DOWAGIAC MFG. CO. v. MINNESOTA PLOW CO.
235 U. S.

641

Syllabus.

ground for dispensing with efforts to procure action by
the corporation; and in this view, without discussing the
merits of the case, we are of the opinion that the complainant was not entitled to the injunction sought.
Order affirmed.

DOWAGIAC MANUFACTURING COMPANY
MINNESOTA MOLINE PLOW COMPANY.

v.

DOWAGIAC

v.

MANUFACTURING
SMITH.

COMPANY

WRITS OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 6, 7.

Argued April 15, 16, 19.13.-Decided January 11, 1915.

Where a patent is infringed by selling machines embodying improvements covered by the patent and the value of the machines as
marketable articles is attributable in part to the patented improvements and in part to unpatented parts or features, the profits
arising from the infringing sales belong to the owner of the patent
in so far as they are attributable to the patented improvements,
and in so far as they are due to the other parts or features they
belong to the seller.
Upon an accounting in a suit for such infringement the commingled
profits resulting from selling the machines in completed and operative form should be separated or apportioned between what was
covered by the patent and what was not covered by it.
If the plaintiff's patent covered only a part of the infringing machine
and created only a part of the profits, he is required to take the
initiative in presenting evidence looking to an apportionment.
In an apportionment of profits mathematical exactness is not indispensable, reasonable approximation being what is required,
and it usually may be attained through the testimony of experts
and persons informed by observation and experience.
The result to be accomplished by an apportionment is a rational
VOL. CCXXXV- 41

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

separation of the net profits so that neither party may have what
rightfully belongs to the other.
Where damages are sought for infringing sales and it does not appear that the plaintiff thereby lost the sale of a like number of
machines or of any definite or even approximate number, no adeqdate basis is laid for an assessment of damages upon the ground
of lost sales.
As the exclusive right conferred by a patent. is property and infringement of it is a tortious taking of a part of that property, the
normal measure of damages is the value of what was taken; and
this may be shown by proof of an established royalty, if there be
such, and, if not, by proof of what would have been a reasonable
royalty, considering the nature of the invention, its utility and advantages, and the extent of the use involved. Coupe v. Royer,
155 U. S. 565, explained.
The right conferred by a patent under our law is confined to the
United States and its Territories, and infringement cannot be
predicated of acts wholly done in a foreign country.
In the particular circumstances of this case the decree, although ordinarily requiring affirmance, is reversed in order that there may be
an opportunity to produce further evidence upon the accounting
and to take other proceedings in conformity with this court's opinion.
183 Fed. Rep. 314, reversed.

THE

facts, which involve the construction and applica-

tion of certain provisions of the patent laws of the United

States in regard to liability for infringement, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Fred L. Chappell for petitioner.
Mi. Thomas A. Banning for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
We have here to review two decrees dealing with an
accounting of profits and an assessment of damages
resulting from the infringement of a patent granted

DOWAGIAC MFG. CO. v. MINNESOTA PLOW CO.
235 U. S.

643

Opinion of the Court.

February 10, 1891, for certain "new and useful improvements in grain-drills, commonly known as 'shoe-drills."'
The suits wherein these decrees were rendered were both
brought by the same plaintiff but were against different
defendants charged with separate infringement. The
plaintiff, besides owning the patent, was manufacturing
and selling drills embodying the patented improvements;
and the defendants, who were wholesale dealers in agricultural implements, were selling drills embodying substantially the same improvements. The drills made by
the plaintiff were sold under the name "Dowagiac,"
and the names "McSherry" and "Peoria" were applied
to most of the others. The defendants purchased from
manufacturers who, as has since been settled, were infringing the plaintiff's rights. At an early stage in the
litigation the validity of the patent was sustained, the
defendants were held to be infringers, further infringement by them was enjoined, and the cases were referred in
the usual way for an accounting of profits and an assessment of damages. 108 Fed. Rep. 67; 118 Fed. Rep. 136.
Upon the evidence submitted the masters reported that
the recovery should be limited to nominal damages and
their reports were confirmed by the Circuit Court. Its
action was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
183 Fed. Rep. 314.
The conclusion that the recovery should be thus restricted was rested upon these grounds: First, that the
patent was not for a new and operative drill, but only for
designated improvements in a type of drill then in use and
well known; second, that the value of drills embodying
this invention, as marketable machines, was not wholly
attributable to the designated improvements, but was
due in a material degree to other essential parts which
were not patented; third, that the plaintiff failed to carry
the burden, rightly resting upon it, of submitting evidence
whereby the profits from the sale of the. infringing drills

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

could be apportioned bet 4een the patented improvements
and the unpatented parts; and, fourth, that, although the
number of sales made by the defendants was disclosed,
the evidence did not present other data essential to an
assessment of the damage sustained by the plaintiff by
reason of the defendants' infringement.
Partly because another Circuit Court of Appeals
seemingly had reached a different conclusion in other
litigation arising out of this patent (see McSherry Co. v.
Dowagiac Co., 160 Fed. Rep. 948; 163 Fed. Rep. 34;
Brennan & Co. v. Dowagiac Co., 162 Fed. Rep. 472) and
partly because of the importance of the questions involved, writs of certiorari were granted requiring that
these cases be certified here for review and determination.
See JudicialVCode, ยง 240.
Since the writs were granted the rules bearing upon the
apportionment of profits in such cases, the relative obliga.tions of the parties to submit evidence looking to an apportionment, and the character of evidence which may be
submitted, have been extensively considered and com-prehensively stated in Westinghouse Co. v. Wagner Co.,
225 U. S. 604. What was said there materially lessens our
present task.
At the outset it should be observed that, while the
defendants were infringers and bound to respond as such
to the plaintiff, their infringement was not wanton or
wilful. The masters and the courts below expressly so
found and the evidence sustained the finding. The defendants, therefore, were not in the situation of the infringing manufacturer in Brennan & Co. v. Dowagiac Co.,
162 Fed. Rep. 472, of whom the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit said (p. 476): "It has made and sold
these infringing drills with a purpose to imitate the
patentee's construction."
It js quite plain, as we think, that the patent was not
for a new and operative grain-drill, but only for particular

DOWAGIAC MFG. CO. v. MINNESOTA PLOW CO. 646
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

improvements in a type of grain-drill then in use and well
known. The invention was so described in the specification forming part of the patent. The inventor there said:
"This invention relates to new and useful improvements in grain-drills commonly known as 'shoe-drills;'
and it consists in a certain construction and arrangement
of parts, as hereinafter more fully set forth, the essential
features of which being pointed out particularly in the
claims.
"The object of the invention is to provide an independent spring-pressure for each of the shoes and coveringwheels of the drill, whereby the work of the drill is rendered
efficient in uneven ground, and to provide means whereby
said shoes and covering-wheels may be raised from the
ground when the implement is not in use or when transporting it from one field to another."
In keeping with this statement the claims in the patent
were limited to a suitable 'construction and arrangement of
spring-pressure rods in combination with certain correlated
elements of the seeding part of a grain-drill-the part
which opens the furrows, guides the seed into them and
then closes them. Of course, this was an important part,
but it was only that; for other parts were required to
complete the machine and make it operative. Some of
these were simple and easily supplied, such as the-tongue
and attachments to which the horses were hitched. Others
were complex and required careful adjustment. This was
especially true of the feeding mechanism whereby the
grain was fed from the feed box or reservoir into the
several hoppers in continuous, uniform and precisely
measured streams, so that it might be deposited in the
furrows evenly and in suitable quantity. Only when all
the parts were present and so adjusted as to perform their
respective functions was the drill a practical and successful
machine. In this respect no change resulted from the
invention covered by the patent. It effected material

646

OCTOBER TERM, 1014.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

improvements in one part, but did not obviate or diminish
the necessity for the others.
We think the evidence, although showing that the
invention was meritorious and materially contributed to
the value of the infringing drills as marketable machines,
made it clear that their value was not entirely attributable
to the invention, but was due in a substantial degree to
the unpatented parts or features. The masters and the
courts below so found and we should hesitate to disturb
their concurring conclusions upon this question of fact,
even had the evidence been less clear than it was.
In so far as the profits from the infringing sales were
attributable to the patented improvements they belonged
to the plaintiff, and in so far as they were due to other
parts or features they belonged to the defendants. But
as the drills were sold in completed and operative form the
profits resulting from the several parts were necessarily
commingled. It was essential therefore that they be
separated or apportioned between what was covered by
the patent and what was not covered by it, for, as was
said in Westinghouse Co. v. Wagner Co., supra (225 U. S.
615): "In such case, if plaintiff's patent only created a
part of the profits, he is only entitled to recover that part
of the net gains." In the nature of things the profits
pertaining to the patented improvements had to be
ascertained before they could be recovered by the plaintiff,
and therefore it was required to take the initiative in
presenting evidence looking to an apportionment. Referring to a like situation, it was said in the case just
cited (p. 617): "The burden of apportionment was then
logically on the plaintiff, since it was only entitled to
recover such part of the commingled profits as was attributable to the use of its invention." But the plaintiff did
not conform to this rule. It neither submitted evidence
calculated to effect an apportionment nor attempted to
show that one was impossible; and this, although the

DOWAGIAC MFG. CO. v. MINNESOTA PLOW CO. 647
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

evidence upon the accounting went far towards showing
that there was no real obstacle to a fair apportionment.
Certainly no obstacle was interposed by the defendants.
It well may be that mathematical exactness was not
possible, but, as is shown in Westinghouse Co. v. Wagner
Co., supra (pp. 617, 620, 621, 622), that degree of accuracy
is not required but only reasonable approximation, which
usually may be attained through the testimony of experts
and persons informed by observation and experience.
Testimony of this character is generally helpful and at
times indispensable in the solution of such problems.
Of course, the result to be accomplished is a rational
separation of the net profits 'so that neither party may have
What rightfully belongs to the other, and it is important
that the accounting be so conducted as to secure this
result, if it be reasonably possible. As was said in Tilghman v. Proctor, 125 U. S. 136, 145, "it is inconsistent with
the ordinary principles and practice of courts of chancery,
either, on the one hand, to permit the wrongdoer to
profit by his own wrong, or, on the other hand, to make no
allowance for the cost and expense of conducting his
business, or to undertake to punish him by obliging him to
pay more than a fair compensation to the person wronged."
Coming to the question of damages, 1 we think the masters and the courts below were right in holding that the
evidence did not present sufficient data to justify an
assessment of substantial damages.
Rev. Stat., ยง 4921, provides that "upon a decree being rendered in
any such case for an infringement, the complainant shall be entitled to
recover, in addition to the profits to be accounted for by the defendant,
the damages the complainant has sustained thereby; and the court
shall assess the same or cause the same to be assessed under its direction. And the court shall have the same. power to increase such damages, in its discretion, as is given to increase the damages found by
verdicts in actions in the nature of actions of trespass upon the case."
See Birdsall v. Coolidge, 93 U. S. 64, 69; Tilghman v. Proctor, 125 U* S.
136, 148.

648

OCTO3ER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

While the number of drills sold by the defendants was
shown, there was no proof that the plaintiff thereby lost
the sale of a like number of drills or of any definite or
even approximate number. During the period of infringement several other manufacturers were selling drills
in large numbers in the same localities in direct competition with the plaintiff's drill, and under the evidence it
could not be said that, if the sales in question had not been
made, the defendants' customers would have bought from
the plaintiff rather than from the other manufacturers.
Besides, it did not satisfactorily appear that the plaintiff
possessed the means and facilities requisite for supplying
the demands of its own customers and of those who purchased the infringing drills. There was therefore no
adequate basis for an assessment of damages upon the
ground of lost sales.
As the exclusive right conferred by the patent was
property and the infringement was a tortious taking of a
part of that property, the normal measure of damages was
the value of what was taken. So, had the plaintiff pursued a course of granting licenses to others to deal in
articles embodying the invention, the established royalty
could have been proved as indicative of the value of what
was taken, and therefore as affording a basis for measuring the damages. Philp v. Nock, 17 Wall. 460, 462; Birdsall v. Coolidge, 93 U. S. 64, 70; Clark v. Wooster, 11.9 U. S.
322, 326; Tilghman v. Proctor, 125 U. S. 136, 143. But,
as the patent had been kept a close monopoly, there was no
established royalty. In that situation it was permissible
to show the value by proving what would have been a
reasonable royalty, considering the nature of the invention,
its utility and advantages, and the extent of the use
involved. NQt improbably such proof was more difficult
to produce, but it was quite as admissible as that of an
established royalty. In Suffolk Co. v. Hayden, 3 Wall.
315, 320, where a like situation was presented, this court

DOWAGIAC MFG. CO. v. MINNESOTA PLOW CO. 649
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

said that "in order to get at a fair measure of damages,
or even an approximation of it,. general evidence must
necessarily be resorted to." See also Packet Co. v. Sickles,
19 Wall. 611, 617; Root v. Railway Co., 105 U. S. 189, 198.
And in many cases in the other Federal courts the damages have been assessed upon proof of a reasonable royalty. The practice is illustrated by the following extract
from the opinion in Hunt v. Cassiday, 12 C. C. A. 316, 318,
64 Fed. Rep. 585, 587: "The plaintiff was clearly entitled
to damages for the infringement. If there had been an
established royalty, the jury could have taken that sum
as the measure of damages. In the absence of such royalty,
and in the absence of proof of lost sales or injury by competition, the only measure of damages was such sum as,
under all the circumstances, would have been a reasonable royalty for the defendant to have paid. This amount
it was the province of the jury to determine. In so doing,
they did not make a contract for the parties, but found a
measure of damages." True, some courts have regarded
Coupe v. Royer, 155 U. S. 565, as impliedly holding that
this practice was not permissible, but the decision does
not admit of such an interpretation. In that case-an
action at law-there was no proof of what would have been
a reasonable royalty but only of what the defendant had
made or might have made out of the infringement; and
all that the court held was (a) that the damages were not
to be measured by what the defendant had gained or might
have gained but by what the plaintiff had lost, and (b)
that, as the evidence risclosed (p. 583) "no license fee,
no impairment of the plaintiff's market, in short, no damages of any kind," the verdict could not exceed a nominal
sum. In Cassidy v. Hunt, 75 Fed. Rep. 1012, where the
scope of that decision was carefully considered by one of
the Circuit Judges for the Ninth Circuit, the conclusion
was reached that it did not militate against an assessment of damages upon the basis of what would have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

a reasonable royalty; and a like view was expressed and
applied by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit in McCune v. Baltimore & 0. R. R., 154 Fed. Rep.
63, and Bemis Car Co. v. Brill Co., 200 Fed. Rep. 749,
762, and by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit in United States Frumentum Co. v. Lauhoff, 216
Fed. Rep. 610. But, although the plaintiff was entitled
to prove what would have been a reasonable royalty, and
thereby to show a proper basis for an assessment of damages, no proof upon that subject was presented.
There are still other grounds upon which damages may
be assessed in infringement cases, as where hirtful competition is shown, but the present record does not require
that they be specially noticed.
Some of the drills, about 261, sold by the defendants
were sold in Canada, no part of the transaction occurring
within the United States, and as to them there could be
no recovery of either profits or damages. The right conferred by a patent under our law is confined to the United
States and its Territories (Rev. Stat., ยง 4884) and infringement of this right cannot be predicated of acts wholly
done in a foreign country. See United Dictionary Co. v.
Merriam Co., 208 U. S. 260, 265. The case of Manufacturing Co. v. Cowing, 105 U. S. 253, is cited as holding
otherwise but is not in point. There the defendant made.
the infringing articles in the United States. Here, while
they were made in the United States, they were not made
by the defendants. The latter's infringement consisted
only in selling the drills after they passed out of the
makers' hands. The place of sale is therefore of controlling
importance here.
Ordinarily what has been said would lead to an affirmance of the decrees below. But there are special reasons
why a final disposition of the cases should not be made
upon the present record at this time. The patent was
valid and the invention meritorious. The infringing sales

WADLEY SOU T HERN R'. v, GEORGIA.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

covered 2500 or more drills, the profits were substantial,
and the damages, if rightly measured, were evidently
more than nominal. The hearings. before the masters
were had prior to the decision in Westinghouse Co. v.
Wagner Co., supra, at a time when the decisions bearing
upon the apportionment of. profits, as also upon the admeasurement of damages, were not harmonious; and this
resulted in the evidence being so imperfectly presented as
not to afford the data requisite to a final adjustment of
the matters in controversy according to their merits.
The decrees are accordingly reversed, without costs,
with directions to recommit the cases to a master in order
that the questions involved in the original reference may
be heard anew upon the evidence heretofore taken and
such further evidence as may be submitted, and for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion. โข
Decrees reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS did not participate in the
consideration or decision of these cases.

WADLEY SOUTEERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 27.

Argued January 30, "1914.-Decided January 11, 1915.

The general common-law rule that a carrier has the option of demanding freight in advance or on delivery applies not only to the shipper
but also to the connecting carrier; but qucere how far this rule may
* be or has been modified by statutes prohibiting discrimination.
This court, being bound by the construftion given by the highest
state court to a statute of the State, holds that the statute of Georgia
involved in this case gives power to the State Railroad Commission
to require a railroad to treat all connecting carriers alike in regard to
payment of freight in advance or on delivery, and the only question

