PORTO RICO v. EMMANUEL.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

the line between innocent silence an( felonious concealment.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of .this case,

PEOPLE OF PORTO RICOv. EMMANUEL, BARON
DU LAURENS D'OISELAY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.

No. 4.

Argued October 23, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.

Under § 35 of the Foraker Act of April 12, 1900, the jurisdiction of this
court on appeals from the District Court of the United States for
Porto Rico is confined to determining whether.the fact§ 'found by
that court support its judgment and whether there was material and
prejudicial error in the admission or rejection of evidenee manifested
by exceptions properly certified.
In such a case, in the absence of a bill of exceptions, questions of admissibility of evidence are excluded and the review is confined to
what appears upon the face of the pleadings and the findings. RQsaly
v. Graham, 225 U. S. 584.
Under the Territorial. Practice Act of 1874 which- governed appeals
to this court from Porto Rico taken under § 35 ot the Foraker Act,
proceedings for review in this court in actions at law as well as in
equitable actions are by appeal and not by wi'it of error unless therewas a jury trial.
The government of Porto Rico is of such a nature as to come within
the general rule exempting a government, sovereign in its attributes,.
from being sued without its consent, Porto Rico v. Rosaly, 227 U. S.
270; but in this case, quwre whether Porto Rico fairly raised the
question of immunity or whether it did not consent to litigate the
case on the merits.
An action against the government of Porto Rico for the wrongful act of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

the Treasurer in registering private property as part of the public
domain and preventing the collection of rents by the owner, is an
action for fault or for negligence mentioned in § 1803, Civil Code, and
the one year period of prescription obtains under § 1869, Civil Code
of Porto Rico.
Qucsre, whether the period of prescription under § 1869, Civil Code of
Porto Rico, begins to run from the time of knowledge of the wrongful
act or from.the time of knowledge of the damage consequent thereon.
5 Porto Rico Fed. Rep. .89, 362, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court

on appeals from the District Court of the United States
for Porto Rico and the right to sue Porto Rico, and the
construction and application of the, statute of limitations
of Porto Rico, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Samuel T. Ansell, with whom Mr. Felix Frankfurter,
Mr. Foster V. Brown, Attorney General of Porto Rico,
and Mr. Paul Charlton were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Frederico Degetau for appellee, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was commenced July 23, 1908, in the United

States District Court for Porto Rico by Pierre Emmanuel,
Baron du Laurens d'Oiselay, a citizen of the Republic of
France and a resident thereof, against the People of Porto
Rico. His complaint alleged that he was the owner of an
estate composed of 4133 cuerdas of land situate in the
Municipality of Lares, acquired by him as a legacy from
the Duchess de Mahon Crillon, who died in France in
April, 1899; that until the year of her death the Duchess
had been paying the taxes and receiving from her colonists
a considerable annual income; that on September 4, 1900,
the defendant, through the Treasurer of Porto Rico, decided that said property belonged to the Treasury of Porto
Rico, and ordered among other things that the Duchess

PORTO RICO v. EMMANUEL.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be immediately eliminated from the assessment of the
property, that the "terratenientes" (landholders or colonists) be made to appear in the assessments instead of the
Duchess, and "that they proceed to deliver the deeds or
titles of concessions that they might possess which gave
them the right to the use and fruits of the land to be sent to
the Treasury"; and that by these means defendant
"wrongfully deprived your plaintiff of his ownership over
said property and its rents, the said property having been
recorded in the registry of the property in the name of the
People of Porto Rico, the defendant herein, without having heard your petitioner, or even summoned him to be
heard;" that in view of. this action plaintiff, after having
vainly tried to obtain satisfaction from defendant, was
obliged to establish the validity of his titles before the
courts; that he instituted a suit in the District Court of
San Juan on January 30, 1901, against the defendant, and
that court on August 1, 1902, decided that the lands
referred to were the property of plaintiff, and ordered
that the inscription made in the Registry in the name of
the People of Porto Rico be canceled; that the People
took an appeal to the Supreme Court of Porto Rico, and
that court affirmed the decisions and confirmed the findings of the District Court by its opinion of May 23, 1904
(2 Castro P. R. Dec. 103; 7 P. R. 216); that after the
question of title was decided, the People of Porto Rico
did nothing to put plaintiff in possession of the property,
the colonists were not willing to again pay rents to him,
and he was obliged to resort to the courts to be put in
possession of the lands, -that by such litigation he did obtain possession, but that he was entitled to recover from
defendant the fruits of which he had been deprived by
defendant's action from the time he was unjustly deprived
of his ownership until his property was delivered back to
him; the period mentioned being from September, 1900, to
December, 1905.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

By demurrer and answer the People of Porto Rico interposed a number of defenses, and, among others, that the
action was prescribed by virtue of the provisions of § 1869
of the Civil Code.
The cause came on for trial on the merits before the
court without a jury, pursuant to a stipulation of the
parties, with the result that judgment was rendered in
favor of plaintiff for $7,450. (5 P. R. Fed. Rep. 89.) A
motion for a new trial was denied (5 P. R. Fed. Rep. 362),
and defendant appealed to this court.
In view of appellee's motion to dismiss, we may begin
by saying that at the time the appeal was taken the act
of April 12, 1900, known as the Foraker Act, was in force
(c. 191, 31 Stat. 77, 85), by § 35 of which it was enacted
that "Writs of error and appeals from the final decisions
of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico and the District Court
of the United States shall be allowed and may be taken
to the Supreme Court of the United States in the same
manner and under the same regulations and in the same
cases as from the Supreme Courts of the Territories of the
United States," etc. Writs of error and appeals from the
Supreme Courts of the Territories were regulated by the
act of April 7, 1874 (c. 80, 18 Stat. 27), by the first section of which the separate exercise of the common-law
and chancery jurisdictions in the territorial courts was
dispensed with, and the several codes and rules of practice
adopted in the Territories respectively, in so far 'as they
authorized a mingling of said jurisdictions or a uniform
course of proceeding in all cases whether legal or equitable,
were confirmed; and by the second section it was enacted:
"That the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court
of the United States over the judgments and decrees of
said territorial courts in.cases of trial by 'jury shall be
exercised by writ of error, and in all other cases by appeal
according to such rules and regulations as to form and
modes of proceeding as the said Supreme Court have pre-

PORTO RICO v. EMMANUEL.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

scribed or may hereafter prescribe: Provided, that on
appeal; instead of the evidence at large, a statement of
the facts of the case in the nature of a special verdict, and
also the rulings of the court on the admission or rejection
of evidence when excepted to, shall be made and certified
by the court below, and transmitted to the Supreme
Court together with the transcript of the proceedings
and judgment or decree."
Under this system (since superseded by § 244 of the
Judicial Code of March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087,
1157), our jurisdiction was, and in the present case is,
confined to determining whether the facts found by the
Supreme Court of Porto Rico support its judgment, and
whether there was material and prejudicial error in the
admission or rejection of evidence manifested by exceptions properly certified. In the absence of a bill of exceptions, questions respecting the admissibility of evidence
are of course excluded from our consideration, and the
review is confined to what appears upon the face of the
pleadings and the findings. Rosaly v. Graham, 227 U. S.
584, 590, and cases cited.
The motion to dismiss is in part based upon the ground
that the bill of exceptions herein was not settled and
signed until after the expiration of the term in which the
new trial was denied, and that certain orders of the court
relied upon by appellant as extending the time for settling
the exceptions have no legal validity. We have examined
the grounds upon which this contention rests, and have
reached the conclusion that it must be overruled. We
spend no further time upon it, since, in the view we take
of the merits, the rulings on evidence shown by the bill
of exceptions may be disregarded.
The motion to dismiss is based upon the further ground
that the case, being an action at law, should have been
brought to this court by writ of error, and not by appeal.
But the provisions of the act of 1874, above mentioned,

'OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

render it clear that in legal as well as in equitable actions
the proceedings for review must be by appeal, unless there
was a trial by jury. The motion to dismiss is therefore
denied.
Coming to the merits, the facts certified are as follows:
In the year 1900, shortly after the American occupation
of Porto Rico, the then Treasurer of the Island, Mr. J. H.
Hollander, reached the conclusion that the land in question did not belong to plaintiff, who claimed to have inherited it from the Duchess de Mahon Crillon of France,
but was public property, and he therefore, as Treasurer,
caused the tenants living upon the land to be so notified
and the property to be registered in the Registry of Property as belonging to the People of Porto Rico. Plaintiff
protested vigorously against this, but without immediate
result. In a short time, however, he produced such evidence of title to Mr. Hollander that the latter wrote him
that he had better begin a suit against the People of Porto
Rico and have the matter judicially determined. Plaintiff
did file such a suit in the District Court at San Juan.
The Attorney General of the Island and his assistant
appeared and contested the action, but the decision was
for the plaintiff, The Attorney General, on the part of
the People, took an appeal to the Supreme Court of the
Island, and that court in June, 1904, decided in favor of
the plaintiff, affirming. the decision of the lower court.
(2 Castro P. R. Dec. 103; 7 P. R. 216.) From the time
Mr. Hollander registered the property in the name of the
People of Porto Rico until plaintiff was again put in possession of the land in the latter part of the year 1905 the
tenants refused to pay rent to plaintiff, and the entire
sum was lst to him except a few hundred pesos which he
managed to collect after much expensive litigation against
the tenants. The court found that Mr. Hollander was a
special agent of the State for the purpose of the transactions in question, within the meaning of § 1804 of the

PORTO RICO v. EMMANUEL
235 U. S.

257

Opinion of the Court.

Civil Code of 1902; and further that his action was ratified
by the Government of Porto Rico by refusing to restore
plaintiff's land to him, by requesting and obliging him to
bring a suit to establish his rights, and then by defending
this suit to final judgment and appealing from that judgment to the Supreme Court of the Island. That the
Government of the Island never actually received any
rent, profit, or usufruct from the land or any portion of it;
but that it injured plaintiff by depriving him of the right
to the use and enjoyment of his property for about five
years, in consequence of the deliberate but unauthorized
registry of the land in the name of the People of Porto
Rico, and by that action .inducinghis tenants to thereafter
desist and refuse, as they did, from paying him his usual
rents. The court found that the insular authorities caused
damage to the plaintiff in at least the sum of $7,450, and
for this amount judgment was entered, as already mentioned. It will be observed that there is nothing to show
that the Government of Porto Rico, through its officers
or otherwise, was at any time in possession of any part
of the lands in question, and there is a distinct finding
that the Government itself never actually received any
rent, profit, or usufruct from the land or any portion of it.
We have recently decided that the Government of
Porto Rico is of such nature as to come within the general
rule exempting a government, sovereign in its attributes,
from being sued without its consent (Porto Rico v. Rosaly,
227 U. S. 270). Upon the face of the present record t
may be doubtful whether defendant fairly raised in the
pleadings the question of its general immunity from action,
or whether, on the other hand, its pleadings, construed
as a whole, did not rather amount to a consent to litigate
the merits. But-upon the facts as pleaded and found we
think the learned judge of the District Court very properly
held that if plaintiff can legally recover, it must be by
virtue of § 1804 of the Civil Code, which is cited also
voL. ccxxxv-17

OCTOBER TERM,. 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

as manifesting the Government's consent to be sued.
The section must be read together with § 1803, with which
it is inseparably connected. Both are set forth in the
margin.1
1 "SECTION

1803. A person who by an act or omission causes dam-

age to another when there is fault or negligence shall be obliged to repair the damage so done.
"SECTION 1804. The obligation imposed by the preceding section is
demandable, not only for personal acts and omissions, but also for
those of the persons for whom they should be responsible.
"The father, and on his death or incapacity the mother, is liable for
the damages caused by the minors who live with them.
"Guardians are liable for the damages caused by minors or incapacitated persons who are under their authority and live with them.
"Owners or directors of an establishment or enterprise are equally
liable for the damages caused by their employds in the service of the
branches in which the latter may be employed or on account of their
duties.
"The State is liable in this sense when it acts through a special agent,
but not when the damage should have been caused by the official to
whom properly it pertained to do the act performed, in which case the
provisions of the preceding section shall be applicable.
"Finally, masters or directors of arts and trades are liable for the
damages caused by their pupils or apprentices while they are under their
custody.
"The liability referred to in this section shall cease when the persons
mentioned therein prove that they employed all the diligence of a good
father or [sic] a family to avoid the damage."
These sections are taken from Articles 1902 and 1903 of the Spanish
Code of 1889, where the clause respecting the responsibility of the State
reads as follows: "El Estado es responsable en este concepto cuando
obra por mediaci6n de un agente especial; pero no cuando el dafio
hubiese sido causado por el funcionario & quien propiamente corresponda la gesti6n practicada, en cuyo caso seri aplicable lo dispuesto en
el articulo anterior."
It was suggested upon the argument that a more satisfactory translation into English than that adopted in the Porto Rican Code is as
follows: "The State is liable in this respect when it acts through the
medium of a special agent, but not when the damage was caused by an
official to whom the action taken properly pertained, in which case the
provisions of the preceding article apply." In Walton's "Civil Law in

PORTO RICO v. EMMANUEL.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Assuming, however, that the facts certified in the findings, taken by themselves, show a liability on the part
of the People of Porto Rico under these sections, still
defendant, both by demurrer and by answer, set up
prescription by virtue of the provisions of § 1869 of the
Civil Code. That section, which is one of a series of sections relating to the prescription of actions, reads as follows:
"Section 1869.-The following prescribe in one year:
1.-Actions to recover or retain possession.
2.-Actions to demand civil liability for grave insults
or calumny, and for obligations arising from the fault
or negligence mentioned in § 1803, from the time the aggrieved person had knowledge thereof."
It seems to us clear that an action against the State,
based upon the pertinent clause of § 1804, is an action
to demand civil liability "for obligations arising from
the fault or negligence mentioned in section 1803," within
the meaning of § 1869. Section 1804 by its very terms
imposes upon the principal, with respect to the acts of
the representative, not any different obligation but the
same obligation imposed by the preceding section. We
say this, notwithstanding the somewhat peculiar form of
expression in that part of § 1804 which exempts the State
from liability when the damage is caused by the official
to whom properly it pertained to do the act performed,
viz.: the clause, "in which case the provisions of the preceding sectien shall be applicable." This cannot reasonably be interpreted as excluding the liability of the
State under § %1803in other cases, but is evidently intended
to impose upon the official himself, in respect to damages
Spain," p. 458, the following version is given: "The state is liable, in
this sense, when it acts through a special agent, but not .vhen the
damage has been caused by the official to whom properly it pertains to
do the act already done, in which case the provigion of the preceding
article shall apply." • And see interpretation by Supreme Court of
Spain in decision of May 18, 1904, 98 Jur. Civ. 390.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

caused in the performance of his ordinary duties, a personal liability under the provisions of § 1803, leaving the
State liable in the sense of that section when it acts
through a special agent. No reason is suggested for
limiting the prescription to one year in the case of a default or negligence attributable to defendant personally,
and leaving the action unlimited when it is attributable
to the fault of defendant's representative or agent.
Section 1869 being thus found to be applicable to such
an action as the present, it only remains to ascertain and
compare the pertinent dates. From his complaint herein
and from the findings of the trial court it is plain that
plaintiff had full knowledge of the wrongful acts of defendant's representative at least as soon as the time of
the commencement of his former action against the People
of Porto Rico, which was on January 30, 1901, and that
the damage resulting from that wrongful uonduct, and
to recover which his present action is brought, was complete before the end of the year 1905. Evidently the
damage was of such a character as to carry notice with it.
As already mentioned, the present action was commenced
in July, 1908. There is nothing in the record or the findings to explain or excuse this delay or to interrupt the
prescription.
We are not advised of the grounds upon which the court
below overruled the plea of prescription. In its opinion
it simply said: "We are also of the belief that under the
circumstances the court ought not to hold that the claim
is barred by the one year statute of limitations, and of
course no other is applicable to the facts." Counsel for
appellee has not suggested any ground for avoiding the
prescription-indeed, has made no argument upon theubject. We deem it 'clear that § 1869 applies, and that
the action is therefore prescribed, and it follows that the
judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.

WESTERN INDEMNITY CO. v. RUPP.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

Under the facts of the case it is unnecessary to consider whether the period of prescription began to run
when plaintiff first had knowledge of the alleged wrongful
acts of Hollander, or only when he had knowledge of
the damage consequent thereon. Upon this point, therefore, we express no opinion.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

WESTERN LIFE INDEMNITY COMPANY OF
ILLINOIS v. RUPP.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 50.

Submitted November 5, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.

A State may prescribe that a voluntary special appearance in one of
its courts, even for the purpose of objecting to the jurisdiction, shall
be deemed a general appearance, without violating the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
In the Federal courts a defendant may appear specially to insist upon
the illegality of service, and if overruled does not waive his objections by answering to the merits, Davidson Marble Co. v. Gibson,
213 U. S. 10, but the States may, as.Kentucky has, establish a different rule, and nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment prevents
them from so doing.
The due process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment has regard
not to matters of form but to substance of right.
While there is a rule in Kentucky that appearance in the appellate
court operates as a submission to the jurisdiction so as to dispense
with service of process, the rights of the defendant in a case where
plaintiff appeals are safeguarded by his right to a c, -ss-appeal on
this or any other objection.

