OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Parties.

235 U. S.

HULL v. DICKS.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 78.

Argued November 12, 1914.-Decided January 5, 1915.

Where a resident citizen of Georgia has been duly adjudicated a bankrupt and dies after such adjudication and after the appointment,
qualification and partial administration of the trustee, the estate
vested in the trustee under § 70 of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898 is
chargeable under § 8 of that law with the allowance for a year's support of the widow and minor children as provided by § 4041 of the
Georgia Code.
The Bankruptcy Act of 1898 makes no exception to the rule that after
proceedings have been commenced they are not to be abated by
death of the bankrupt; and, under the proviso in § 8, the right of the
widow and children in case of such death to an allowance out of what
remains in the hands of the trustee, is as broad as the prohibition
against abatement.
What the court may do.pending the life of the bankrupt is binding on
the bankrupt; and, as to such property as has been distributed prior
to his death, the right of the widow and children to charge it with
support under a state statute is defeated. Such allowance can only
be made out of property remaining in the hands of the trustee on an
order duly made in proceedings in which he, as representative of the
creditors, has a right to be heard.

facts, which involve the construction of §§ 8 and 70
of the Bankruptcy Law of 1898 and § 4041 of the Georgia
Code in regard to the allowance to be made for a year's
support of the widow and children of a bankrupt dying
during administration of the estate, are stated in the
opinion.
THE

Mr. William H. Barrett for Hull, trustee.
Mr. B. B. McCowen, with whom Mr. Thomas W. Hard,
wick was on the brief, for Mrs. Dicks.

HULL v. DICKS.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.

In January, 1912, L. K. Didks, a citizen and resident
of Richmond County, Georgia, was adjudicated a bankrupt. James M. Hull, Jr., was elected Trustee. and on
February 5, 1912, took possession of all of the property
of the bankrupt. Three weeks later L. K. Dicks died
leaving a widow and four minor children. Thereafter
the widow applied to the Court of Ordinary for the year's
support to which the family was entitled by virtue of the
provision in the Georgia Code (§ 4041) that "upon the
death of any person . . . leaving an estate, solvent
. .
it shall be the duty of the Oror insolvent
. .
appraisers,
dinary . . . . to appoint
to set apart and assign to such widow and children
either in property or money, a sufficiency from the estate
for their support and maintenance for the space of twelve
months."
Citation issued and thereafter the Ordinary duly set
apart to the family a year's support to be made out of
the estate of L. K. Dicks in the hands of the Trustee in
Bankruptcy. The widow subsequently applied to the
Referee for an order directing the Trustee to pay over the
amount so set apart. Her application was denied and
that ruling was reversed by the District Court. (198 Fed.
Rep. 293.) The Trustee took the case to the Circuit
Court of Appeals which certified to this court the following
question:
"Where a resident citizen of Georgia has been duly
adjudicated a bankrupt and dies after such adjudication
and after the appointment, qualification and partial administration of the trustee, is the estate vested in the trustee under § 70 of the Bankruptcy Law of 1898 chargeable
under § 8 of the same law, or otherwise, with the allowance for a year's support of the widow and minor children,
as provided in the laws of Georgia?"

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

Counsel for the appellant contends that this question
should be answered in the negative. He insists that
§ 8 1 of the Bankruptcy Act of July 1, 1898, c. 541, 30
Stat. 544, 549, does not create a right but, as in this case,
merely preserves the right, given by the state law, to
have a year's support "out of the estate" left by the husband and father. It was then argued that as the title
to the property had vested in the Trustee before the death
of the bankrupt, Dicks did not die "leaving an estate"
and there was, therefore, no estate out of which, under
the Code of Georgia, the year's support could be set
apart.
This reasoning would be applicable if the widow and
children were asserting rights of inheritance under the
Statute of Distribution. Moreover, there would be no
answer 'to the argument advanced if the title, which
vested in the Trustee, was in its nature like that which
would have been acquired if Dicks in his lifetime had
made a Deed of Assignment to the Trustee. But such is
not the case. For construing the statute as a whole it
will be seen that while § 70 2 (30 Stat. 565) of the Bankruptcy Act vested title in the Trustee primarily for the
benefit of the creditors, there was an exception in favor
of the bankrupt himself, and the transfer was also subject
to a condition in favor of his family if he died before the

I"§ 8. Death or Insanity of Bankrupts.-a The death or insanity
of a bankrupt shall not abate the proceedings, but the same. shall be
conducted and concluded in the same manner, so far as possible, as
though he had not died or become insane: Provided, That in case of
death the widow and children shall be entitled to all rights of dower
and allowance fixed by the laws of the State of the bankrupt's residence."
2 "§ 70. Title to Property.-a The trustee of the estate of a bank•rupt,- upon his appointment and qualification

.

.

.

shall

.

.

be vested by operation of law with the title of the bankrupt, as of the
date he was adjudged a bankrupt, except in so far as it is to property
which is exempt,

.

.

HULL v. DICKS.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

proceedings ended. If the Bankrupt elected to claim a
homestead the exempt property, even though it had
passed to the Trustee, would, after identification and
appraisal, be turned back into his possession. Chicago
&c. R. R. v. Hall, 229 U. S.511, 515. The Trustee's title
was also subject to the condition that if the bankrupt
died during the pendency of the proceedings, the widow
and children would be entitled to receive the allowance
given them by the laws of the State of his residence. This
latter limitation on the Trustee's title was in connection
with legislation on the subject of abatement.
For the statute seems tb assume that, in the absence of a
statutory provision to the contrary, the death of the bankrupt would have abated the proceedings. In that event
the property, although the title thereto had been previously vested in the Trustee, would have been surrendered
to the bankrupt's personal representatives, who would
then have been in possession of an estate, out of which, under the Georgia Code, a year's support could have been
set apart to the widow and children. Congress need not
have made any change in the general law but, as in the
act of August 19, 1841, c. 9, 5 Stat. 440, could have
allowed the suit to abate on the death of the bankrupt;
Or, as in the act of March 2, 1867, c. 176, 14 Stat. 517,
522, § 12, it.
could have permitted without requiring, an
abatement; Or, as in the act of April 4, 1800, c. 19, 2
Stat. 19, 27, § 19, it could have made a mandatory provision that the proceedings should continue if the bankrupt died "after commission sued out;" Or, it could have
legislated, as in § 8 of the present statute (30 Stat. 549,
§ 8) where Congress went further than in any of the previous bankruptcy laws and made a universal and mandatory provision that "the death . . . of a bankrupt
shall not abate the proceedings." That sweeping declaration, however, was coupled with the Proviso that "in case
of death the widow and children shall be entitled to all

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

rights of dower and allowance fixed by the laws of the
State of the bankrupt's residence."
Section 8 with these two clauses prevents, on the one
hand, the loss and inconvenience to creditors resulting
from an abatement,-while at the same time avoiding
the hardship., of depriving the widow and minor children
of a right to which they would have been entitled, if the
suit had abated on the death of the husband and father.
The statute makes no exception 'or qualification-after
the proceedings have been commenced they are not to be
abated by death. And the Proviso clearly indicates an
intention to make the preservhtion of the widow and
children's right to the allowance as broad as the prohibition against the abatement of the suit. Inasmuch as the
proceedings did not abate if the death of the bankrupt
occurred after filing the petition and before the election of
the Trustee, neither Was the right to the allowance lost
if the bankrupt died after such election and at a stage of
the proceedings where the title had, by operation of law,
vested in the Trustee. For such title, whenever it accrued,
was subject to the condition that the assets, in the hands
of the Trustee, should be charged with the payment of
the allowance to which on the death of the bankrupt, the
widow and children were entitled under the laws of the
State of his residence.
It is claimed that, under this interpretation, if the bankrupt died after the Trustee had wholly or partially administered the estate the widow and children could still
enforce their rights to a year's support out of the bankrupt
estate, even if the property had passed into the hands of
purchasers. But this loses sight of the fact that the
family had nothing in the nature of a lien which, during
his lifetime, prevented the bankrupt or the Trustee from
disposing of his property. What was done by the court,
while the bankrupt was in life and a party to the proceeding, was binding upon him, and therefore as effectual

BROWN v. FLETCHER.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

to defeat the right to a year's support out of such property
as if the sale and distribution had been made by the
bankrupt himself or by his duly authorized agent.
The right to the year's support accrued at the date of
the bankrupt's death and could be enforced out of property remaining in the hands of the Trustee,-and then
only after the allowance had been duly made in proceedings, where he, as representative of the creditors, had the
right to be heard.
There has been some conflict in the decisions dealing
with the subject [In re McKenzie, 142 Fed. Rep. 383, 384
(6); In re Slack, 111 Fed. Rep. 523; In re Newton, 122 Fed.
Rep. 103; In re Seabolt, 113 Fed. Rep. 766, 767; In re
Parschen, 119 Fed. Rep. 976; Thomas v. Woods, 173 Fed.
Rep. 585, 586; vacated, 178 Fed. Rep. 1005], but the
foregoing considerations'require that the question of the
Circuit Court of Appeals should be answered, Yes.

BROWN, AND SCHERMERHORN, TRUSTEE UNDER WILL OF CUNNINGHAM, v. FLETCHER,
TRUSTEE OF BRAKER.
PROVIDENT LIFE AND TRUST COMPANY AS
EXECUTOR OF WOOD v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 454, 455.

Argued December 1, 1914.-Decided January 5, 1915.

The prohibition against the Federal court entertaining jurisdiction of
actions brought by assignees to recover upon a promissory note or
other chose in action, as now embodied in § 24, Judicial Code, does
not apply to a suit to recover a specific thing or damages for its
wrongful detention or caption.

