318

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

310 U.S.

entered fixing terms on which the debtors are to remain
in possession. The petitioners were' entitled to compliance with the procedure required by the statute., The
bank, at any time, could have obtained action by the
Conciliation Commissioner and the court, in accordance
with the statute. It cannot now maintain that the disorderly and unauthorized procedure followed by the parties is the equivalent of that prescribed by the statute
and that, as the petitioners have not been able to rehabilitate themselves, it is entitled to enforce its liens.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. BRADFORD DYEING ASSOCIATION (U. S. A.) ET AL.
"CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 588. Argued March 26, 27, 1940.-Decided May 20, 1940.
1. The National Labor Relations Act is applicable to an employer
whose business consists of dyeing and finishing goods moved to
and from its plant by their owners through the channels of interstate commerce. P. 324.
2. The Act is applicable even though the employer's business is small
in comparison with the industry to which it belongs. P. 326.
3. It is not material to the question of the Board's jurisdiction that
the customers of the processor, if the interstate movement of the
goods to and from the plant were stopped by a strike, might secure
the same services from other processors in the same State. P. 326.
4. Since the purpose of the Act is to protect and foster interstate
commerce, the Board can exert jurisdiction before industrial strife
occurs in the plant. P. 326.
5. Evidence before the National Labor Relations Board sustained its
findings:
(1) That two of the respondent company's employees were discharged for union activities. Pp. 326, 330.

LABOR BOARD v. BRADFORD DYEING ASSN.
318

319

Opinion of the Court.

(2) That the company dominated and supported one labor
organization and refused to bargain collectively through another
after a majority of the emproyees had selected-it as their bargaining
unit. Pp. 333 et seq.
6. Where a shift of majority membership from one union to another
was brought -about by the unfair labor practices of the employer,
the Board was justified in finding that the first union continued
to be the exclusive representative of all the employees for the purposes of collective bargaining. P. 339.
7. In vacating the Board's order for reinstatement of two employees,
upon the ,round that they had incited or threatened unlawful conduct after their discharge, the court below acted without jurisdiction. P. 340.
8. Where the National Labor Relations Board, acting within the compass of its power, on a charge of unfair labor practice, has held
a proper hearing,>has made findings based on substantial evidence,
and has ordered an appropriate remedy, the Circuit Court of
Appeals is bound, on application, to enforce the order. P. 342.
106 F.2d 119, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 308 U. S. 549, to review a decree on a petition for enforcement of an -order of the National Labor
Relations Board. 4 N. L. R. B. 604; 8 id. 979.
Mr. CharlesFahy, with whom Solibitor General Biddle
and Messrs. Robert B. Watts, Laurence A. Knapp, and
MortimerB. Wolf were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Harry Parsons Cross, with whom Mr. George Paul
Slade was on the brief, for Bradford Dyeing Association,
respondent. Mr. William G. Feely submitted for the
B. D. A. Employees Federation, respondent.
MR. JUSTicE BLAcK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals declimd to decree effective enforcement of an order of the National Labbr Relations Board upon the grolnd that thi Board's order,
in Inaterial -respects, rested upon findjpgs that were not
supported by substantial evidence.

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

In its petition for certiorari, the Board took sharp
issue with the-Court of Appeals, asserting that some
findings upset by the court were supported not merely
by substantial but by "uncontradicted" and "undisputed
evidence." The petition also pointed outthat the court's
opinion was "ambiguous and inconclusive" and 'left unclear the court's holding as to whether the Board had
jurisdiction." Our inspection of the court's opinion and
decree disclosed that the court deemed the Board -to be
wholly lacking"mi jurisdiction. Nevertheless, the Board
was ordered to proceed in accordance with the opinion
which concluded with the indecisive statement that "if
the case should not be dismissed for lack of jurisdiction"
a large part, but apparently not all, of the Board's order
should be vacated. The court's decree did not direct
enforcement even of those parts of the Board's order not
expressly vacated. 'The Board's petition furiher pointed
out that its motion for rehearing in order to clarify the
question of its jurisdiction and to establish the status of
"those portions of the Board's order which the court
neither vacated nor enforced" -was denied without ex'planation. Because the Labor Board's petition in challenging the action of the Court of Appeals thus raised
questions of grave public importance affecting the administration of the National Labor Relations Act and judicial
review as provided in the Act, we granted certiorari.1
This proceeding was initiated upon charges filed by the
Textile Workers Organizing Committee of the C.I.O.
Thereupon, the Labor"Board served a complaint and notice of hearing on the Bradford Dyeing Association
(U. S. A.), respondent here.
In the complaint, it was alleged that respondent in
order to discourage membership in the C. I. 0., had dis-.
charged and refused to reinstate its employees, Edward
1308 U. S. 549; cf. Labor Board v. Waterman Steanr 7.p Co., 309

U. S. 206.

LABOR BOARD v. BRADFORD DYEING ASSN.
318

321

Opinicn of the Court.

Nelson and Percy Schofield, because of their affiliation
and activities in the Textile Workers Organizing Committee of the C. I. 0., (T. W. 0. C.); respondent had
dominated and supported the Bradford Dyeing Association Employees' Federation, a labor organizatian, and
had refused to bargain collectively with its employees
through the T. W. 0. C. after a majority had selected it
as their bargaining representative.
The Board's jurisdiction was unsuccessfully challenged
on the ground that respondent's business involved no
activities in or affecting interstate commerce within the
meaning of the Act. And, answering, respondent alleged
that Schofield was discharged because he smoked during
working hours; "that . . . Nelson was not discharged,
that he was insubordinate and defiant, that he did not
work and refused to work during the times when he was
supposed to be working, that he was on the premises
during hours when he was not supposed to be on the
premises of respondent and was taking up the time of
other employees who were supposed to be working during such time, that . . . Nelson went upon a vacation
and has not returned to work aftec such vacation nor
made any statement of his readiness to return to work
or made any request that he be put to work again"; that
respondent had not dominated or coerced the Federation; and that any labor disputes at its plant were attributable to the conduct of the T. W. 0. C.
The Federation was allowed to intervene in the extensive hearing held by the Board.
After this hearing, the Board found that "a labor dispute" in respondent's plant would widely affect "the flow
of coimodities in interstate commerce," with consequent
jurisdiction in the Board, and that the charges of the
complaint had been substantiated.
The Board accordingly ordered respondent to cease
and desist from (1), interfering, or coercing its employees

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

in the exercise of their rights to self-organization; (2),
dominating and interfering with the Federation or any
other labor organization; (3) discouraging membership
in the T. W. 0. C.; (4), refusing to bargain collectively
with, the T. W. 0. C; and (5), ordered respondent
affrmatively to offer re6mployment to Schofield and Nelson and to make them whole, to withdraw all recognition
from and completely disestablish the Federation, to bargain collectively With its emplo'yees through T. W. 0. C.,
and to post the usual notices throughout its plant stating
that 'the company-would cease its unlawful ,and unfair
labor practices and would treat its agreement with the
Federation as of no effect.
In its final decree the Circuit Court of Appeals directed
that "until a new election has taken place by order of
the Board, and the-employees have expressed their prieference as .to what group or body shall represent them in
any labor disputes between them and the respondent, the
order, of the Board, except as to paragraphs (1), (2), and
(3) of the cease and desist portion of the' order, and the
'entire paragraph ordering affirmative action, shall
be
vacated, the Board, then to proceed in accordance with
the opinion passed down this.day." As phrased, the decree is not clear but apparently the court vacated sub
divisions (4) and (5) of the Board's order. The court's
opinion did make clear that under its decree the company
was left free. to bargain collectively with. the Federation
and to decline to bargain with 'the T. W. 0. C. Discharges of Schofield and Nelson Were approved and the.
company was released from publishing notices which, if
warranted, were "essential if the employees were fo feel
free to exercise their rights without incurring the- com-"
Although -those .portions of' the
pany's disfavor."'
Board's order prohibiting the company's interfering with
Labor Board v. Falk Corp., 308 U. S. 453, 462.

LABOR BOARD v. BRADFORD DYEING ASSN.
318

323

Opinion of the Court.

its employees' union affiliations were not expressly set

aside or modified, neither were they ordered enforceda
Thus the court's decree gave the Board's order no effect
at all.
It did not explicitly so decree, but the Court of Appeals
evidently was of the view that evidence was lacking upon
which the Board could have found that. respondent's business was in or affected interstate commerce. The court
expressly found a lack of evidence to support the Board's
conclusion that Schofield and Nelson were discharged for
union activities and stated its belief that Schofield was
discharged for smoking in the plant and Nelson for insubordination, and that "the-finding by the Board that the
T. W. 0. C..had a majority of the employees of the respondent signed up even to become members of a union
under that name is without substantial evidence on which
to rest."
Without specifically passing upon the Board's finding
that respondent had unlawfully dominated the Federation, the opinion of the court stated, ". .

assuming that

the president or officers of the respondent influenced its
employees to join the Federation,so-called, it does not appear by clear and substantial evidence that a majority of

the employees ever joined, or indicated an intent to join,
'the T. W. 0. C., ..." [Italics supplied.] Since the court
'Section 10 (e) of the National Labor Relations Act gives the
Board power to petition any Circuit Court of Appeals of the United
States for the enforcement of its order; grants these courts exclusive .jurisdiction and provides that "Upon . . . [the Board's
filing a transcript of the entire record in the proceeding], the court
shall cause notice thereof to be served upon such person, and thereupon shall have jurisdiction of the proceeding and of the question
.
. make and endetermined therein, and shall have power to
ter upon the pleadings, testimony, and proceedings set forth in such
transcript a decree enforcing, modifying, and enforcing as so modified, or setting aside in whole or in part the order of the Board."
49 Stat. 449, 454.

324

OCTOBER TERM., 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

did not vacate that part of the Board's order directing the
company to discontinue domination of the Federation, we
might infer that the court accepted the Board's finding
that the Federation had been so dominated. But this inference is opposed by the court's action in vacating the
order of disestablishment. The uncertainty in which the
court has left the questions of jurisdiction and company
domination of the Federation makes necessary a review of
the evidence on both, along with other evidence which we
think amply demonstrates the justification for the Board's
order in every respect.
First. As to Jurisdiction.
A major portion of the opinion of the court below is devoted to its expression of doubts about the Board's jurisdiction, i. e., "there is no substantial evidence to warrant
a finding that the transportation of these materials by
the respondent was ever in interstate commerce"; "there
is also lacking substantial evidence that forty per cent of
the supplies consisting of chemical and dyes, which were
contracted for in Rhode Island and delivered by the sellers
to the respondent's plant in Bradford, were transported
by the respondent in interstate commerce, or that they
were used by the respondent except at Bradford, though
the ,Board assumed without evidence that they were
shipped by the respondent in interstate commerce, but its
assumption lacks substantial evidence on which to rest,
that would compel this court to accept it as a fact"; "The
respondent, according to uncontroverted testimony, neither sells, transports, nor arranges for transportation of
the goods into or out of Rhode Island in interstate
commerce which is done in' each instance by the customer, . . ."; ahd "The Board apparently assumed that
the respondent transported goods to its plant and from it,which the uncontroverted evidence disclosed were not the
facts." Referring to waste products which respondent
sells in interstate commerce, the court noted that they did

LAIOR BOARD v. BRADFORD DYEING ASSN.
318

325

Opinion of the Courf.

not "exceed one per cent of the total goods processed" and
said that they were but "a mere incident ....[of the
business] to which the maxim de minimis might well be
applied, even by the National Labor Relations Board."
And the conclusions of the opinion were only stated subject to the condition "If the case should not be dismissed
for lack of jurisdiction."
There was evidence before the Board which showed:
The Bradford Dyeing Association (U. S. A.), as stated
by its president, is "engaged in the dyeing and finishing
of cotton, rayon and acetate piece goods." These piece
goods reach the plant at Bradford, Town of Westerly,
Rhode Island, as unfinished "gray goods." Customers of
Bradford, known as "converters," ship the gray goods to
the plant, retaining title, and direct shipment of the goods
when processed. Bradford owns no goods or 'means of
transportation, and its customers pay the cost of transportation to and from the plant. A New York office is
maintained, however, "where . . .solicitors [who contact converters] make their headquarters," and advertisements are run in New York papers and trade journals.
A majority of Bradford's (converters) are located in
States other than Rhode Island, in Baltimore, Boston,
Philadelphia, Trenton, and principally in New York City.
There are "very few customers" in Rhode Island. In
1936, 57,000,000 yards of goods were processed and for the
first six months of 1937, 29,000,000; About ninety per
cent of all goods processed, the processing taking "an aver-

age of between two and three weeks," are shipped but of
Rhode Island. "More than half" of the goods'processed
come from beyond the borders of Rhode Island.

Incidental to its business of processing, respondent accumulates and acquires title to "remnants" which are ends
of cloth processed and goods damaged in processing. In
1936, 588,000 yards of remnants were sold by respondent,
ninety per cent of which was shipped in interstate com-

merce. These remnants represented roughly "just less
than one per cent" of the yards processed in that year.

For the same year, respondent purchased $355,856.00

worth of colors and dyestuffs,. weighing over 235,111
pounds. of which forty per cent came from outside of

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

Rhode Island. The company, during 1935, averaged 688
employees, with wages of $604,614.68, and its gross income
from processing was $2,026,156.00. In 1937, the employees
on the payroll were nearly 800.
That this evidence was abundantly sufficient to justify
exercise of jurisdiction by the Board is not now open to
controversy. It is settled that the Act is applicable to
a processor, who constitutes even a relatively small percentage of his industry's capacity,' where the materials
processed are moved to and from the processor by their
owners through"the channels of interstate commerce,5 and
it is not material; as the court below thought, that respondent's customers might be able to secure the same
services from other Rhode Island processors if a labor
dispute should stop the interstate flow of materials to and
from respondent's plant. Since the purpose of the Act
is to protect and foster interstate commerce, the Board's
jurisdiction can attach, as here, before actual industrial
strife materializes to obstruct that commerce4
Second. Discharge of Neson.
In its answer to the Board's'complaint, the company
contended that Nelson was not discharged April 3, 1937,
but was merely "laid off," and on April 2, "went upon a
vacation" and did not return or indicate a willingness to
go back to work. However, the company insists, as it
has throughout, that Nelson was not a diligent worker
and was insubordinate; that he trespassed upon company
property after work hours Thursday, April 1st; that "one
or two mornings that week he started work a little late
"The record indicates, that respondent does roughly one per cent
of the national total of businesq in its industry.
'Labor Board v. Fainblatt,306 U. S. 601.
'Coisolidated Edison Co. v. Labor'Board,305 U. S. 197, 222; cf.,
LaborBoard v. Jones & Laughlin Corp., 301 U. S. 1,43. A strike
at respondent's plant in 1929 apparently did result in a stoppage of

the flow of the interstate movement of materials to and of jrocessed
goods from respondent's plant.

LABOR BOARD v. BRADFORD DYEING ASSN.
318

327

Opinion of the Court.

and quit a little early"; that he did not start work Saturday,'April 3, until 7:30, a half hour late.
Some of the evidence supporting the Board's finding
that Nelson was actually discharged for union activities
on April 3, was:
Prior to Saturday, April 3, 1937, when Nelson was
"laid off," he had worked for the company two years as a
carpenter. He had become actively interested in organizing the employees in a C. I. 0. union the preceding
Monday, March 29, 1937. On that day, he, had obtained
three hundred and fifty T. W. 0. C. cards from a fellow
employee (Schofield), who, he heard, "had some applications for joining the union, the C. I. 0." His distribution of the cards met with quick response and many
signed so that on Friday, the company official "who does
all the hiring," approached him and said, "You're a
ringleader of the C. I. 0., but you are not going to be
fired for it." Nelson refused to tell this official the names
of his collaborators in forming the union and also told
him he would not reveal their names to Mr. Summersby,
the company's president and general manager. Later
that day, Nelson observed Schofield talking with Summersby and was introduced to the latter as "helping
...
[Schofield] to organize and get these pledge cards
signed in the mill." He was, that same day, Friday, refused .diission to a meeting in Summersby's office between some employees and Summersby, but that afternoon, after work, he was called to Summersby's office.
There Summersby asked "why didn't we form a local
union of our own" and "thought it was a much better
plan to form a local union." And Summersby asked that
the question of a local union be put up to a C. I. 0. committee meeting to be held that night.
All day Friday and Saturday morning, his foreman
"didn't speak one word to" Nelson. Saturday morning,
April 3, this foreman asked him "when [he] ... intended to start work" but added that he "didn't hold
anything against" him. When Saturday's work was
over, Nelson was sent for by Summersby, who was affable at first, but who became hostile when Nelson indicated he would not go along with a local union. Sfim7

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

mersby then asked Nelson if he had been stealing on an
occasion when he had returned to the plant after hours
to get some T. W. 0. C. cards, and asked him if he had
begun work promptly that day (Saturday, April 3).
Nelson was told by Summersby "to take two weeks off
and cool off." Nelson insisted he was ready to go back
to work Monday morning. His testimony narrated this
conversation in part as follows
"A. . . . I said, 'As far as being excited about it,
you are more excited than I am and you are worried
about it and I ain't.' He says, 'Sure, I am excited about
.it, but you are .the cause of all it.' I said, 'I can't help
that.' He said, 'You take the two weeks off and then
come back and see Mr. Pierce.' I said, 'Meaning what,
that I go back and see Mr. Pierce? I am not sure of a
job when I come back? Or is this just a matter of
beating about the bush to fire me?' He says, 'I won't
give you nothing definite.' I says, 'I want something
definite. I want to know whether or not you are firing
me. If you are not telling me whether I go to work when
I come back or not, I want to know whether you are
firing me.' He says, 'I won't give you nothing definite.'
I says, 'I can't go out without money. If you are going
to fire me, I can't live without money.' He says, 'Silvia,
get his money.' Mr. Silvia went out and got me my
money and came in and I thanked Mr. Silvia for my
money and went out. When I was halfway across the
outer office I heard laughing, and I saw Silvia swing
his arm down, and Mr. Silvia and Mr. Summersby were
laughing for all they were worth, as though they had
pulled a big joke."
"Q. Did you ever go back after that for your job?
A. No I didn't.. Mr. Summersby told me if I stepped
foot on the premises within two weeks he was going to
have me arrested."
Nelson never went back because aT. W. 0. C. official-who
conferred with Summersby said Summersby would not
take him back. This T. W. 0. C. official and a Conciliator of the United States Department of Labor said
Summersby wouldn- take Nelson back because "there
would be a question; of his authority." In fact, a fellow
employee told Nelson that Summersby had said some-

LABOR BOARD v. BRADFORD DYEING ASSN.
318

329

Opinion of the Court.

thing about firing Nelson and Schofield and "that he
would find some way of getting around it." On the
morning of the day Nelson was fired he had spent a
-"couple of minutes" telling other employees about a
C. I. 0. meeting of the previous night.
From the testimony of the T. W. 0. C. official in question, a T. W. 0. C.Director for Rhode Island, Summersby
would not rehire "especially Mr. Nelson." And Summersby himself stated that he told the Federal Conciliator, "I couldn't take back either of them because.it would
break down the discipline of our plant."
Nelson's foreman testified as a witness for respondentOn Friday, April 2, "I could see that he [Nelson] was
talking around more or Mss, and so I had him come in
the shop to work on the trucks. I thought that would be
the place where I could watch him better.". He saw Nelson talking to the men early on April 3, befor6 work and
until 7:30, although work begins at 7. He reported to
his superior that Nelson was "talking to different ones,"
and went with Nelson to Summersby who asked Nelson
"if he decided, on some question that they were talking
about the afternoon before . . . [Nelson] said, 'No,'"
and Summersby said, "Well, then, if you can't give me
a satisfactory answer on that I have thought it over and
I have decided to lay you off for two weeks and let you.
think it over." This foreman "knew . . . [Nelson] was
interested in the C. I. 0., but . . . didn't know anything
he said" to the men Saturday morning. On other occasions, he had seen Nelson start late or quit early without
ever reporting the fact, and had seen Nelson talk around
like that "quite often" but "this is the only time . . .
[the foreman] ever got mad at him." This time, he was
aware that Nelson had been connected with the C. I. 0.
for the past week "and . . . supposed he was still at it."
The foreman admitted that Nelson was "a very good
workman'4' that he may have worked between 7 and 7:10
on this particular Saturday morning and that on Saturday, April 3, Nelson, after having been spoken to, "said
he hadn't any feelings but what he would go on and do
his work all right. And he did after that."

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

According to the Chief Engineer, who ranked above
Nelson's foremanNelson previously "did a whole lot of talking." In his
three years with the company, he had seen others talking
but never laid any one else off for talking. In his view
"when men are talking with one another there is very
little work done," but the foreman did not report the
men to whom Nelson was talking on April 3, although
they also were "surely" wasting time. The plant rules do
not forbid talking.
Summersby, the president and general managerOn April 2, "inquired as to who [Nelson] . . .was
and what he did and if he had been active in the C. I. 0.
as an organizer." Nelson, he stated, "automatically
forfeited his job" by not coming back at the end of his
two weeks lay off, which 'was without pay. And if he
should apply for work, his forced vacation "would be on
his record and would always be a black mark against
him."
Third. Discharge of Schofield.
The court below s.w -no evidence supporting the
Board's findings that this employee was discharged for
union activities, and accepted the company's contention
that he was discharged for smoking in the plant contrary
to rules. Respondent admits that Schofield was discharged.
Schofield, a machine operator, or "jigger," testified'On*
Saturday, March 27, 1937, he attended a C. I. 0.
meeting, obtained eight application cards for the C. I. 0.
and .talked to some of his fellow employees about the
C. I. 0. All eight cards were signed that night. By
Sunday, March 28, he had asked for and obtained seven
hundred cards which he used during the following week,
giving Nelson about one-half on Monday, March 29.
* By Wednesday, the cards gave out. On Friday, April 2,
he and Summersby discussed certain difficulties with the
piece work of "jiggers." Summersby, talking there in the
plant, brought up the C. I. 0. and said "he couldn't see
anything in an organization outside .... [with] .

LABOR BOARD v. BRADFORD DYEING ASSN.
318

331

Opinion of the Court.

big shots ... running big automobiles and hotel expenses."
Summersby then suggested "a union of our own in the
shop." Schofield attended a meeting in Summersby's
office as a member of a committee of "jiggers," and the
subject of the C. I. 0. arose again. Summersby said he
wouldn't recognize an outside union. When Nelson attempted to enter this meeting. Summersby turned him
away and referred to him as a "troublemaker." Sunday.
April 4. there was a C. I. 0. meeting at which Schofield
and Nelson were both on the platform. Schofield went
to work on Monday, the 5th, continuing to distribute
C. I. 0. cards. On Tuesday, the 6th. at 2:25 (Nelson had
been "laid off" on the 3rd), a "charge hand" notified
Schofield that Summersby wanted to see him "in his
office-right away." He left his work and went directly
to the locker room to wash and change from work clothes.
While there, he and two other employees were smoking.
An official of the company-a boss dyer-whom he had
never seen "in the locker room, not while the men were
chaiiging their clothes"-caught Schofield smoking and
said, "So that's it, you damn fool." Schofield then went
to Summersby's office as he had been directed, but did
not find him there. Summersby's first words, on entering
the office about twenty minutes later, charged Schofield
with smoking, but Summersby refused to tell Schofield
why he had originally been sent for-before he was caught
smoking. Schofield was told to "take a couple of weeks
off." He had been laid off once before for smoking.
On the Friday before the Tucsday on which this employee
would, he thought, have been taken back to work, a
Federal Conciliator and C. I. 0. officials conferred with
Summersby about Nelson and him. The C. I. 0. official
told Schofield that Summersby refused to rehire either.
and as a result he riever went back. Although he "wanted
to go back the first week," he took the word of the Federal Conciliator and the C. I. 0. official that he would
not be rehired. The two other employees who were
smoking when he was caught were not disciplined, although the accosting official could see them. Despite
"No Smoking" signs, it was the practice of the men to
smoke on the sly. Other men have been laid off two

332

OCTOBER TERM. 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

weeks for smoking, but Nelson was caught and "others"
have been seen by foremen and no lay-offs resulted.
Schofield didn't "know of any one being discharged" for
smoking. He was made T. W. 0. C. local financial
se cretary . - ...
In the words of the C. I. 0. official, "Mr. Summersby
saw red3 the minute I mentioned Schofield's and Nelson's
names. "
As told by the boss dyer who found Schofield smokingThis official had sent an employee to notify Schofield
of Summersby's desire to see him; he himself went to
the locker room to deliver the message. He asked one
of the other employees in the locker room to remember
the scene because he "knew Percy Schofield's character."
It was his duty to detect smokers and he usually laid off,
himself, any man found smoking. He had time to lay
off Schofield while Walking with him part of the way to
Summersby's office, but he- did not do so. "It was a
peculiar case and I wanted to think before I did anything."
This was the only case in which he had ever reported a
smoker to a higher up. He had laid Schofield off for
two weeks twice before, for smoking. In six or seven
years, he had caught seven or eight smokers of whom,
excepting Sch6field, only one was discharged. He didn't
go to the wash room "very often." "A very short time
before" he had heard that. Schofield was somewhat active
in the C. I. 0.
One of the fellow employees present in the locker-room
where Schofield was found smoking, stated that he also
had been smoking but was not doing so when the boss
dyer came in, and that the third man was smoking at
that time but wasn't observed. He got the impression,
then; that the boss dyer- said something to the effect that
he at last "had" Schofield after having been after him
for some time., He "had never seen . . . [the boss dyer]
go to the locker room" before.

LABOR BOARD v. BRADFORD DYEING ASSN.
318

333

Opinion of the Court.

Summersby testified that be bad Deen told by Schofield
he was "interested in organizing the C. I. 0."; and
that he discharged Schofield for smoking.
Fourth. Dominationof the Federation.
As already noted, the Court of Appeals' opinion did
not especially pass upon this contention. Since, however,
the Court did not enforce the Board's order to cease dominating and to disestablish the Federation, as we think it
should have, appropriate evidence on this issue will be
pointed out.
A machinist, employed eleven years by respondent,
testified. He attended a meeting in Summersby's office on Apiil
6, the day of Schofield's discharge. Summersby "said
that he wouldn't recognize the C. I. 0. and that it would
be much better for us to join our own union than to be
bothered by this C. I. 0." which would require the men
to go out on gympathy strikes. This employee saw Federation cards and literature "on the table" in the com-,
pany's office. These were "handed around" and one or
two were picked up by the employees present; when Summersby and the vice president of the company left the
room, the employees "seemed to pick them up more frequently." Temporary officers of the Federation were
chosen there, in Summersby's office. A day or so later,
the Federation met in the company's shipping room with
one hundred and fifty to two hundred men present; Summersby addressed the meeting and said he would not
recognize the C. I. 0. and that it was better to have our
own union. The machinist distributed in the plant the
Federation cards which he had "picked . . . up" in "Summersby's office"; the Federation cards "were there."
From testimony of other employees, it appeared- thatAt the meeting on the 6th (the day Schofield was discharged) in Summersby's office, Federation, cards and
circulars were seen, and an employee di tributed these

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

cards; Summersby said "he would like to have this local
union" and "wouldn't recognize the C. I. 0." Three
"jiggers" had seen Sunnersby on April 5 about wages and
conditions of employment; he "thought it would be better
if we had our own union" instead of paying outside fellows.. "Someone" suggested that cards be passed out for
a local union. Word was passed out by fellow workers
that the company would pay for time spent at the meeting
in the shipping room, at which Summersby "said he
wouldn't recognize C. I. 0. or A. F. of L., no outside
union," that it would "be better if we had a local union"
instead of paying others to ride around in big cars and that
"he would not tolerate C. I. 0." Workers were seen passing out Federation cards in the plant during working
hours. Pay was given for the half-hour spent in the shipping room meeting and this time was included by instruction of the "boss ofthe frames." Federation cards were
passed out "openly" by men on the day of the shipping
room meeting. Bosses were seen with cards. One employee was given his Federation card by the boss of his
department. Another was asked by his foreman whether
he had joined the Federation.
An employee testifiedSummersby sent for him on April 6, (the day of Scho-

field's discharge). The paymaster came to his house
for-him and said he was glad that this man wasn't "deep
in the C. I. 0.." -and took him to the office.
There Summersby told him he was sorry that men in
his line of work (in the gray room) had been left out
of the meeting that morning in Summersby's office. This
employee had told the men in the gray room that they
shouldn't sign cards from a meeting at which they had
not been represented. Summersby told him the C. I. 0.
would take money out of the plant and that a "committee had gotten together . . . to form this local
union, because he informed them that he wouldn't recognize the C. I. 0., and they started to organize a union that

he would recognize.

He said he would recognize the

local." He and Summersby then went into the meeting
in an adjoining office ("one is Mr. Pawson's [respondent's vice president] and the other is Mr. Summersby's").

LABOR BOARD v. BRADFORD DYEING ASSN.
318

&35

Opinion of the Court.

A leader at this meeting in company offices and attended
by Summersby, "said a few of them got together and
decided they didn't want a C. I. 0., that they thought they
would be better off if they had a local union, that they
had a talk with Mr. Summersby, and Mr. Summersby
wouldn't recognize the C. I. 0., and rather than have
trouble he was going to see if we couldn't have a local
union." Summersby "explained advantages of the local
union and spoke of the B. D. A."
Another employee supplied evidence that a week or
two after Nelson was fired, the timekeeper took him to
see Summersby, who asked about a C. I. 0. card which
had been on the back of this employee's car, and that
Summersby then "said he wouldn't recognize it" and
could close the plant down.
The financial Secretary of the Federation statedHe was first given a temporary appointment at the
meeting in Summersby's office, April 6, when Summersby
said "he didn't like the idea of bargaining outside." The
men present in the afternoon meeting in Summersby's
office "asked for the privilege of using the office to find
out how we had made out on our cards." The meeting
in the shipping room was a day or so later. After the
morning meeting in Sumnersby's office on the 6th, this
temporary Federation official started passing out Federation cards for which Summersby had given permission.
Federation circulars were posted on plant bulletin
boards. Federation application cards were passed out by
"all of us that were in the office at that first meeting."
Officers of the Federation were subsequently elected
(April 11). "All us men who were in the office the first
day, I think we acted as a committee." Between April 6
and 11. Summersby permitted the temporary committee
to meet in an old company office in the plant. The paymaster gave them a list of the men in the plant by which
to determine the necessary fifty-one per cent. On April
9, pr'or to the election of the Federation's officers on the
11th. this temporary committee presented a letter to
Summersby stating that they represented fifty-one per
cent of the men. That same day, Summersby granted

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

recognition to the Federation. This employee felt no
need for organization, except for "better feeling" which
he thought "was necessary because the C. I. 0. was going to do the same thing." He helped form the Federation "partly" to stop the C. I. 0., and because the C. I. 0.
had already started. A company car was used by him
on one occasion for purposes of the Federation. Meetings of the executive committee of the Federation were
held in a' club room "on property owned by the B. D. A."
This witness engaged as attorney for the Federation one
who he knew "had represented . . . [the company] on
some cases"; he himself lives in a house owned by the
company. Some Federation dues were collected on the
company's premises; members were not suspended for
dues delinquency and may also be members of any. labor
union or society. The Federation started about a week
after the C. I. 0. drive; it had no income of its own prior
to the last week in April. Eventually it affiliated with
an outside union still designated "as the B. D. A. Employees' Federation" "to brihg a flttle more prestige and
to prove to the ones that were skeptical, that we were
not a company union."
The first vice president of the Federation testifiedHe negotiated recognition of the Federation, April 9,
(three and six days respectively after discharge of Schofield and Nelson) as its acting president. On that day,
he called a meeting of the organizing committee in "the
little office in the gray room," showed them that
they had fifty-one per cent signed cards, and then
went to Summersby's office. In Summersby's office,
the witness and company officials counted the signed
cards and checked them against a list of employees
which Summersby asked the paymaster to get. The
cards were not checked to see if each signer was eligible;
the management took the temporary committee's word
for it. And the cards were left with Summersby. The
witness didn't know that the Federation planned to do
anything that "was any different" from, what the employees previously could have done by grievance committees. He had heard rumors that a boss had Federation
cards or spoke to employees about them, and believed one
man quit work as the result of posting C. I. 0. hand-bills.

LABOR BOARD v. BRADFORD DYEING ASSN. 337
318

Opinion of the Court.

He spoke at the shipping room meeting and asked Summersby to speak there. Summersby did speak. Along
the'lines of his conversation at the two previous meetings
in his office, Summersby told this gathering of employees
that h preferred a local and "was not in favor of
bargaining with the C. I. 0."
T. W. 0. C.'s State Director for Rhode Island
statedOn April 7, he saw Summersby and told him T. W. 0. C.
had "about seventy-five per cent" of the men signed.
Summersby refused to say then that he would recognize
T. W. 0. C. April 16, the Director, a Federal Conciliator
and a T. W. 0. C. organizer saw Summersby again and
were told by Summersby that "he had a union" and
wouldn't recognize the C. I. 0. as he was "afraid of an
outside union." It was agreed that he would hear from
Summersby's attorney after the first (April 7) meeting.
but he never heard. A form contract was submitted to
Summersby on the 16th, but by that date "he had definitely decided that he would refuse to bargain with the
C. I. 0."
According to the company's vice presidentHe was present part of the time at one of the meetings
in Summersby's office on April 6, where cards and literature were present and a union was discussed. Summersby was heard to express the opinion "that he would
prefer to deal with a union of his own employees rather
than to deal with outside influences."
One of the men present when Schofield was found
smoking testified that a salaried employee who reports
"things which are done wrong" came around and asked
everybody if he had joined the local union; at the meeting
in the shipping room, Summersby said he would not recognize the C. I. 0. but would recognize a local; the
witness was paid for the fifteen minutes spent at that
meeting; the men were told by the time-keeper that they
would be so paid. An official of the Federation said,
"The impression was that Mr. Summersby probably
wouldn't recognize" the C. I. 0.; this official was "one

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

of the first" organizers of the Federation and conveyed
to people the impression that Summersby wouldn't recognize the C. I. 0.
As related by Summersby, president and general manager of respondentA wage increase was announced March 31. After he
met in his office on April 6, (the day of Nelson's discharge)
with the committee of "jiggers," later the same day he
was askedfor a place in which the Federation's temporary
committee could meet. He answered the request 'by
saying, "You can have my office and make yourselves
comfortable." That afternoon, as he Was ready to leave,
the temporary committee met in his office and he was
"advised that they were organizing a local union . . .
I told them that I would grafit them the same privileges
I would grant any other union . . ." Two days after
recognizing the Federation, he placed and paid for an
ad in a local paper, entitled "The Strike that Failed"
because in part, as he said, "the B. D. A. Employees'
Federation had formed and had taken the organization
into.their own hands, and had shown that they were still
real citizens." Respondent is owned by an English concern and a statement by him appeared in the local paper,
on April 25, disclosing the possibility of the company's
moving the plant out of the United States if there were
to be "labor uncertainties."
He recognized the Federation April 9. and on April 13,
told the Federal Conciliator that an election could not be
held, since the Federation had already been recognized.
And on the 1-h, Summersby told Salerno that his proposed T. W. .0. contract'would be taken'up with Summersby's lawyer.
Fifth. Designation of T. W. 0. C. as bargainingagent.
The court below found no substantial evidence to support the Board's finding that a majority of respondent's
employees joined the T. W. 0. C., or that "the T. W. 0. C.
, . . ever, came into actual existence with authority to
negotiate a contract with thl respondent." Much of the
testimony already referred to bore upon the genesis of
T. W. 0: C.at respondent's plant.

LABOR BOARD v. BRADFORD DYEING ASSN.
318

339

Opinion of the Court.

Schofield said:
By April 4 he had "four hundred and sixty-five or four
hundred and sixty-seven" signed application cards
"marked down." The cards were sent to Boston. A few
men paid dues but collectioii was stopped. "....

we had

a majority of cards signed." Dues are not collected until
management grants recognition. No local C. I. 0.
(T. W. 0. C.) entity had been formed for the plant; "we
had the fifty-one per cent, but this company union stuff
and discharge and everything came along, and we have
just had to wait for this hearing

. .

Nelson stated that he told the timekeeper, on April 2,
"It's all over but the shouting... We have well over
sixty per cent signed up all ready." And from the testimony of an officer of the Federation it appeared that the
C. I. 0. drive resulted in a number of signatures, and that
both organizations could possibly claim fifty-one per cent
of the employees signed up.
As explained by the T. W. 0. C. State Director-A charter or'local is unnecessary for membership in
T. W. 0. C.; no charter to a local is granted until after
recognition. Members of the Federation are members
in good standing of T. W. 0. C., even if they have not
paid dues or initiation fees. The T. W. 0. C. cards were
brought to him during the first week in April. Summersby, April 9, refused to agree to have the Federal
Conciliator, or a third party, count the T. W. 0. C. cards.
Employees are eligible to membership in T. W. 0. C.,
without formation of a plant local.
The T. W. 0. C. Director's Secretary stated that the
T. W. 0. C. cards were brought in before April 12. It
was agreed at the hearing that, after respondent checked
against the original signed cards, T. W. 0. C. had a list
of four hundred and eighty-two names taken from those
*cards. And it was stipulated' that these cards were signed
"on or before April 10, 1937."
Shift in membership.
Respondent has contended before the Board, as here,
that if the T W. 0. C. did actually represent a majority

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

of its employees on April 4 (as the Board found), a shift
in membership.had given the Federation a majority when
the company on April 9 recognized it as exclusive bargaining representative. However, the Board found that
"the record is clear that, had it not been for the unfair
labor practices of the respondent in organizing and fostering the Federation and in persuading, intimidating and
coercing its employees to join the Federation and leave
the T. W. 0. C., the respondent's,employees would have
remained members of the T. W. 0. C." In view of the
substantial support in the evidence for the Board's findings that the company intimidated and coerced its
employees and dominated the Federation, the Board
properly concluded that "The unfair labor practices of
the respondent cannot operate to change the bargaining
representative previously selected by the untrammelled
will of the majority."
And, accordingly, the Board was
justified in its finding "that on April 4, 1937, and at all
times thereafter, the T. W. 0. C., pursuant to Section
9 (a) of the Act, was the exclusive representative of all
the employees in the appropriate unit for purposes of
collective bargaining .
Sixth. The "Sit Down."
As one of the apparently alternative grounds of its decision, the Circuit Court of Appeals declared the Board
without authority to order reinstatement of Nelson and
Schofield because of so-called unlawful conduct and the
alleged incitement of a "sit down" strike within the meaning of the Fansteel case.' The opinion stated that "Nelson even threatened truck drivers delivering materials to
the plant with violence, and to destroy the spur tracks over
which materials were delivered to the plant, ...
The
'Cf. Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Railuay Clerks, 281 U. S. 548, 557.
571, affirming 33 F. 2d 13, affirming 24 F. 2d 426: 25 id. 873; 25 id
876, 877-8.
'Labor Board v. Fansteel Corp.. 306 U. S.240.

LABOR BOARD v. BRADFORD DYEING ASSN.
318

341

Opinion of the Court.

affirmative action that is authorized is to make these remedies effective in the redress of the employees' rights, to
assure them self-organization and freedom in representation, not to license them to commit tortious acts or to protect them from the appropriate consequences of unlawful
conduct. We are of 'he ,ipinion that to provide for the
reinstatement or reemployment of employees guilty of the
acts, which it is not denied were committed in this instance,
would not only not effectuate the policy of the Act, but
would directly tend to make abortive its' plan for peaceable procedure."
We find no such issue raised by respondent's pleadings
before the Board. Respondent made request for special
findings by the Board, but included none that Nelson and
Schofield had been guilty of any unlawful conduct. Nelson categorically denied having made threats of violence.
The court was apparently referring to the testimony of a
truck driver which appears in the record. An objection of
the Board's representative to the introduction of this particular testimony was overruled by the trial examiner when
respondent's attorney made the following statement: "If
your Honor please, may I point out that while Mr. Nelson
was on the witness stand in cross-examination I asked him
if he did not say certain things at this time and place, that
this witness has been referring to, which the witness Nelson denies. The testimony of this witness that Nelson
did say those things is in contradiction of Mr. Nelson's
testimony and is clearly admissible as tending to impeach
the veracity of Mr. Nelson's testimony. Aside from that
I also submit it as bearing on the type of conduct and the
attitude of 'the representatives and organizers of this
T. W. 0. C. getting membership and conducting the affairs
of this organization."
This truck driver's helper testified that on the morning
of April 8, after Schofield and Nelson had been laid off, he
saw Nelson. Schofield and a third "little fellow from the

OCTOBER -,TERM, 1939.
Opini6n of the Court.

310 U. S.

C. I. 0." "outside the mill yard?' He noticed Nelson
"going up and down motioning ... Going like this [illustrating by waving arms, squatting and standing.]" As this

truck driver recollected Schofield was not "doing anything." "If anybody was looking out the east door they
could" see Nelson or Schofield moving their hands that
morning; Nelson "made a motion to sit down, that is all,"
out "on the main road going to the plant." He "couldn't
say that" any workers would have seen Nelson; he

"couldn't say that, whether they could see out or not. I

don't know." An employee, not Nelson or Schofield, who

"went through the department shoutifig 'Sit-down
strike,'" was taken for an automobile ride by the company's vice president, talked to, given, lunch and sent
home to bed without loss of pay and was still working for
the company at the time of the hearing. When asked,
"You remember you said, 'Well, we can blow up the railroad?'," Nelson answered, "No, absolutely not."
Ii vacating the Board's order of reinstatement on the
ground that undenied evidence showed that Nelson and

Schofield had, after their unlawful discharge, incited or
threatened-unlawful conduct, the court acted without any
justification.
 Congress has placed the power to administer the National Labor Relations Act in the Labor Board, subject to
the. supervisory powers of the Courts of Appeals as the
Act sets out. If the Board has acted within the compass
of the power given it by Congress, has, on a charge of
unfair labor practice, held a "hearing," which the statute
requires, comporting with the standards of fairness inherent in procedural due process, has made findings based
upon substantial evidence and has ordered an appropriate
remedy, a like obedience to the statutory law on the part
of the Court of Appeals requires the court to grant enforcement of the Board's order. Until granted such enforcement, the Board is powerless to act upon the parties

LABOR BOARD v. BRADFORD DYEING ASSN.
318

343

Opinion of the Court.

before it. And the proper working of the scheme fashioned
by Congress to determine industrial controversies fairly
and peaceably demands that the courts quite as much as
the administrative body act as Congress has required.
Mindful of the separate responsibilities Congress has
imposed upon the Board and the courts, we have carefully scrutinized this entire record. Within the range
of our examination has appeared not merely the testimony but also the procedure followed from the filing of
the charge before the Board to final decree of the Court
of Appeals. The Board and its representatives solicitously guarded respondent's and intervenor's right to a
full and fair hearing; manifested liberality in ruling upon
evidence proposed by both sides; and conducted the proceedings in a manner calculated to bring about a just
result. And as we have pointed out, substantial evidence
supported the result which the Board did reach? Notwithstanding, the court below declined to order enforcement of the Board's order, and the implications of its
opinion are that the Board without a proper regard for
either the limitations on its power or the evidence made
findings all of which had no substantial support.
But in reaching this conclusion the Court of Appeals
*itself failed to give proper regard to the evidence which
was before the Board, which appeared in the record before the court and which we have set out in this opinion.
In refusing to enforce the Board's order, the court exceeded the power given it. The cause is reversed and
remanded with directions to enforce the Board's order
without conditions or qualifications.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

'Accepting the underlying findings of the Board, as we do, it was
within the province of the Board to draw, the inferences that the

