UNITED STATES v. BUSH & CO.
Syllabus.

362

Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Weeks, 297 U. S.135, does not
bar the way. That is the only case, and it was decided
by a sharply divided Court, in which a non-discriminatory assessment was struck down simply because it was
thought excessive. Plainly, therefore, the case must have
rested upon considerations peculiar to its own facts.
Those are not the facts now before us. We conclude,
therefore, that the Commission's over-assessment of petitioner's property, if over-assessment there was, constitutes
no deprivation of any right under the .Federal Constitution.
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. GEORGE S. BUSH & CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CUSTOMS AND PATENT APPEALS.

No. 613.

Argued April 23, 24, 1940.-Decided May 20, 1940.

The President, acting on a report and recommendation of the Tariff
Commission pursuant to the flexible tariff provisions of the Tariff
Act of 1930, proclaimed an increase of duty on a Japanese product,
to equalize the difference between Japanese and domestic costs of
production. In fixing the increase, foreign cost of production was
determined, under § 336 (e), on the "weighted average of the
invoice prices or values for a representative period," taking as
representative the period from December 1, 1930, to September 30,
1932; but, as the invoice prices were in yen and as § 336 contains
no provision for conversion of currency, the Commission, in order
to compare those prices .with domestic cost, had converted them
into dollars at the average rate of exchange for 1932, selecting that
period because the value of yen in dollars had declined steadily from
December 1931 to November 1932. Held:
1. There is no express provision in the Act requiring that the rate
of exchange be taken from the same period as the invoice prices, and
none can be implied. P. 378.
2. The President's judgment in the matter is not subject to scrutiny
by the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals or by this Court.
P. 379.
3. Section 501 of the Act does not permit judicial examination of
the judgment of the President that the rates of duty recommended

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for the United States.

310 U. S.

by the Commission are necessary to equalize the differences in
domestic and foreign costs of production. P. 379.
4. Under § 336, the Commission serves the President as an adviser.
It is the judgment of the President on. the facts submitted to him
by the Commission that determines whether or not the recommended
rate will be promulgated. P. 379.
5. In substance, and to a large extent in form, the action of the
Commission and the President is but one stage of the legislative
process. P. 379.
27 C. C. P. A.-; 104F. 2d 368, reversed.
CEnTIoRARI, 309 U. S. 643, to review a judgment of the
Court of Customs and Patent Appeals ordering a reappraisement under § 501 of the Tariff Act of 1930.
Mr. Warner W. Gardnerargued the cause, and Solicitor
General Biddle, Assistant -Attorney General Oliver,
Messrs. CharlesD. Lawrence, Richard H. Demuth, John R.
Benney, and Edwin G. Martin were on the brief, for the
United States.
The action taken by the President and the Commission
was in substance one stage of the legislative process.
Norwegian Nitrogen Products Co. v. United States, 288
U. S. 294. Such action is not subject to judicial impeachment if the prescribed forms of legislation have been regularly observed. Id. Here the investigation conducted by
the Commission, the hearing which it.
held after due notice
to all interested parties, its report to the President, and
his proclamation approving the Commission's recom"mendation,constituted a full and regular observance of the
forms prescribed.
Moreover, it does not appear from the proclamation
whether the President accepted the reasoning of the Tariff
. Commission or predicated his approval of the Commission's recommendation upon his own conclusions drawn
from the facts set- forth in the Commission's report. If
the reasoning 0f'the Commissionwas in fact based on an
erroneous interpretation of the statute, the presumption

UNITED STATES v. BUSH & CO.
371

373

Argument for Respondent.

that the President acted properly requires the courts to
assume that he followed the latter course.
The holding of the court below that, under § 336 (e)
(2) (A), if the weighted average of the invoice prices
for a representative period is used to determine foreign
costs of production, those prices must be converted into
terms of dollars at the rate of exchange prevailing during
that period, has no warrant in the provisions of the Act
and to a very large extent nullifies the intention of Congress in enacting the flexible tariff provision.
"
Sec. 336 contains no mention of conversion of currency.
In the absence of express statutory provision it seems clear
that in converting foreign costs into dollars the Commission may, as it did in this case, use the rate of exchange
prevailing at the time of its investigation, since this rate
reflects the then existing differences in costs of production.
If, as held by the court below, the Commission is required
to convert foreign costs into dollars at the rate of exchange
which prevailed during the period used to ascertain the
foreign costs but which, due to subsequent exchange fluctuations, is not the rate prevailing at the time of the investigation, the Commission will be utterly unable to perform
its function of determining what change in duty will
equalize the differences in costs of production at the time
when the change becomes effective. Although the legislative history of § 336 shows plainly that fluotuating
foreign exchange was one of the important factors which
Congress considered as creating the need for, a flexible
tariff law, the decision below renders the provision largely
useless for this purpose.
Even if the construction by the court below is correct,
the action of the Commission was still authorized under
other provisions 'of § 336.
Mr. GeorgeR. Tuttle for respondent.
Neither the Tariff Commission, nor the President in his
review of the facts submitted by the Commission, com-

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Respondent.

310 U. S.

plied with the provisions of § 336 when they ascertained
the foreign cost of production, the differences in cost of
production between the foreign and domestic article, and
the "duties expressly fixed by statute."
If the procedure followed by the Commission and the
President is not in violation of the terms of § 336, then
the statute is an unconstitutional delegation of legislative
power in that it grants to an administrative agent discretion as to what the law shall be.
The conversion from yen into dollars at the average rate
of exchange for the year 1932 was illegal, for by this action
the Commission obtained a value which did not represent
the cost of production referred to in the statute, i. e., the
cost for the 'selected "representative period."
In violation of § 336 (a) the Commission failed to ascertain the amount of. "duties expressly fixed by statute" and
to compare this amount with the differences in costs of
production. Although the Commission found that "foreign value" was dutiable value, it disregarded § 402 (c)
of the Act, requiring the date of exportation to be taken in
ascertaining foreign value, and also disregarded § 522 requiring foreign currency to be converted to dollars in a
particular manner.
The Commission failed to compare the amount of duty
based on'the American selling price as defined in § 402 (g),
with the difference in cost of production computed as of
the same period of time.
The Commission did not ascertain the required facts
from "the investigation," but ascertained them by use
of an unauthorized and illegal currency-conversion
factor.
The Commission did not specify in its report to the
President such increase or decrease in rate of duty or
change in basis of value as was "shown by the investigation" to be necessary to equalize the differences in cost
of production.

UNITED STATES v. BUSH & CO.
371

Opinion of the Court.

As to the court's power to review, see: Hampton v.
United States, 276 U. S. 394, 409; Robertson v. Frank,
132 U. S. 17, 24; Muser v. Magone, 155 U. S.240, 247;
United States v. Passavannt, 169 U. S. 16, 21; Waite v.
Macy, 246 U. S. 606; NorwegianNitrogen ProductsCo. v.
United States, 288 U. S. 294; Moss v. United States, 26
C.C.P. A. 381, 385; 103 F..2d 395; Fosterv. UnitedStates,
20 C.C.P. A. 15, 23; Fox River Butter Co. v. United States,
20 C.C.P. A. 38,45;. UnitedStates v. Sears,Roebuck & Co.,
20 C. C.P. A. 295,.301; cert. den. 290 U. S: 633.
As to what constitutes "legal investigation" by -the
Tariff Commission, and "pr6ceeding in conformity with
law" by the President, the following decisions are pertinent: Fosterv. United States, 20 C. C. P. A. 15, 22, 25-6;
Zeiss v. United States, 23 C. C. P. A. 7, 14; Norwegian
Nitrogen ProductsCo. v. United States, 20 C. C. P. A. 27,
34-5;-288 U. S.294; Fox River Butter Co. v. United States,
20 C.C.P. A. 38, 45; Moss v. UnitedStates, supra.
As both decisions by this Court in cases pertaining to
the flexible-tariff provisions (Hampton v. United States,
supra, and Norwegian Nitrogen Products Co. v. United
States, supra), and many of the decisions by the Court
of Customs and Patent Appeals in similar litigation, relate
to actions brought under the Tariff Act of 1922 (§ 315),
rather than the Act of 1930 (§ 336), the differences in
the respective provisions of the two Acts must be kept in
mind when considering the present case in the light of
these decisions.
MR. JusTicE DouGL~s delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Court of Customs and Patent Appeals held invalid the Proclamation made by the President of the
United States on May 1, 1934, increasing the duty on
canned clams imported from Japan. 104 F. 2d 368. We
granted certiorari because of the importance of that deci-

376

OCTOBER TERM. 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

sion to the administration of the flexible tariff provisions
of the Tariff Act of 1930 ,(46 Stat. 590).
In compliance with -§ 336 (a) of that Act, the Tariff
Commission, in response to an application for an increased
duty on canned clams, instituted an investigation- in June
1932, gave public notice of the hearing, held the hearing
in October 1932 and gave interested parties an opportunity to be present, to produce evidence, and to be heard.
As a result of that investigation the Commission found
that the statutory duty of 35% ad valorem on the foreign
dutiable value' did not equalize the difference in the costs
of production of the domestic article and the Japanese
article. On such a finding the Commission was authorized by § 336 (a) to recommend to the President an increase or decrease in the statutory rate but not in excess of
50 per cent; or in case the differences could not. be equal-ized in that manner, it was empowered by § 336 (b) to
specify such ad valorem rate of duty based upon the
American selling price 2 of the domestic article as it found
necessary to equalize such differences. In the latter event,
however, the statutory rate could not be increased. The
Commission found that the rate of duty on foreign value
which would be necessary to equalize the difference in costs
exceeded the then existing statutory rate by more than 50
per cent. Accordingly it proceeded under § 336 (b) to
specify an ad valorem rate based on American selling price,
and recommended to the President an increase in the duty,
to be effected by assessing the rate of 35 per cent ad valorem
on the American selling price.
It is provided in § 336 (c) that the President "shall by
- proclamation approve the rates of duty and changes in
classification and in basis of value specified in any report
of the commission, under this section, if in his judgment
'§ 1, Sch. 7", Par. 721 (b).
2-As defined in § 402 (g).

UNITED STATES v. BUSH & CO.
371

Opinion of the Court.

such rates of duty and changes are shown by such investigation of the commission to be necessary to equalize such
differences in costs of production." The Proclamation referred to the report and findings of the Commission and
concluded that the change in duty recommended was "in
the judgment of the President" necessary for that purpose. After the President issued his Proclamation, respondent imported some canned clams and they were appraised on the basis of the American selling price. It was
on a appeal for reappraisement pursuant to § 501 that the
Proclamation was held invalid by the Court of Customs
and 'Patent Appeals. Its invalidity, according to that
court, flowed from the basis on which the Commission
computed the Japanese cost of production. By § 336(e)
(2) the Commission was authorized, when the cost of
production of a foreign article was not "readily ascertainable," to accept as evidence thereof the "weighted average
of the invoice prices or values for a representative period."
The Commission took the, weighted average of such prices
for the period from December 1, 1930, to September 30,
1932. Those prices were in Japanese yen. Sec. 336 contains no provision for conversion of currency. But the
Commission in order to compare those prices with domestic costs converted them into United States dollars, at the
average rate of exchange for 1932. That period was selected because Japan went off the gold standard in December 1931 and the value of the yen n terms of United
States dollars declined steadily from that date to November 1932.1
'The Commission in its report to the President, dated April 5,
1934, stated on this point:
"The years 1931 and 1932 are representative with respect to the
domestic cost of production of canned clams ar.d the invoice prices
of Japanese canned clams, in terms of Japanese currency. During
most of 1931 the exchange rate ;of he Xapanese yen for the dollar
was' not much below par, wyhereas sihcq that time it has been much

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

The Court of Customs and Patent Appeals held that
it was error to convert invoice prices for one period into
United States dollars at the average rate of exchange for
another period. In-its view the phrase "weighted average
ol' the invoice prices or values for a representative period"
contained in § 336 (e) (2) must be construed as though
it read, "weighted average of the invoice prices or values
in United States currency for a representative period."
The government, however, urges that if the Commission
were forced to take the conversion rate for the earlier
period, to which it had to resort in order to obtain the
invoice prices, it would use a rate which had merely an
historical interest and which did not reflect the conditions
which made desirable an increase in the duties, viz. the
depreciation in the value of the yen.
The determination of foreign exchange value was prescribed, in the procedure outlined by Congress, neither
for the action of the Cdmmission nor for that of the
President. There is no express provision in the Act that
the rate of exchange must be taken for the same period
as the invoice prices. To imply it would be to add what
below par. For this reason the invoice prices of the Japanese product imported in 1931, when converted to dollars at the then current
rate of exchange, are not representative of the present or probable
future invoice values in terms of dollars. The Commission has,
therefore, used, for comparison with the domestic costs, the invoice
prices in yen as evidence of costs of the Japanese product during
1931 and 1932, converted to dolla:s at the average rate of exchange
for 1932. Although the exchange rate of the yen has risen since
April 1933, the rate now prevailing is not much higher than the
average rate for 1932."
'See. 522 (b) provides that for "the purpose of the assessment and
collection of duties" upon imports, foreign currency shall be converted at values proclaimed by the Secretary of the Treasury for the
quarter in which the merchandise was exported. This section clearly
has no application to the issue here, since it applies only to assessment and collection of duties-matters outside the functions and
duties of the Tariff Commission.

UNITED STATES v. BUSH & CO.
371

Opinion of the Court.

Congress has omitted and doubtless omitted in view of
the very nature of the problem. The matter was left at
large. The President's method of solving the problem
was open to scrutiny neither by the Court of Customs
and Patent Appeals nor by us. Whatever may be the
scope of appellate jurisdiction conferred by § 501 of the
Tariff Act of 1930,' it certainly does not permit judicial
examination of the judgment of the President that the
rates of duty recommended by the Commission are necessary to equalize the differences, in the domestic and
foreign costs of production.
The powers which Congress-has entrusted to the President under the Act of 1930 do not essentially differ in
kind from those which have been granted him under the
tariff acts for well over a century.- See Norwegian Nitrogen Products Co. v. United States, 288 U. S.294, 308
et seq., for a review of the statutes. Since its creation
in 1916 the Commission has acted as an adviser to the
Congress or to the President. Under § 336 of the Act of
1930 the Commission serves the President in that role.
It does not increase or decrease the rates of duty; it is
but the expert body which investigates and submits the
facts and its recommendations to the President. It is
the judgment of the President on those facts which is
determinative of whether or not the recommended rates
will be promulgated. In substance and to a great extent
in form (Norwegian Nitrogen Products Co. v. United
States, supra) the action of the Commission and the
President is but one stage of the legislative process.
Hampton & Co. v. United States, 276 U. S. 394. "No
one has a legal right to the maintenance of an existing
rate or duty."- Norwegian Nitrogen Products Co. v.
United States, supra, p. 318. And the judgment of the
'That' section gives either party a right to appeal to the Court of
Customs and Patent Appeals on "a question or questions of law
only."

380

OCTOBER TERM, 19 9.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

President that on the facts, adduced in pursuance of the
procedure prescribed by Congress, a change of rate is
necessary is no more subject to judicial review under this
statutory scheme than if Congress- itself had exercised
that judgment. It has long been held that where Congress, has authorizedza public officer to take some specified legislative action when in his judgment that action
is necessary or appropriate to carry out the policy of
Congress, the judgment of the officer as to the existence
of the facts calling for that action is not subject to review. Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat. 19; Monongahela
Bridge Co. v. United States, 216 U. S. 177; Dakota Central Telephone Co. v. South Dakota, 250 U. S. 163;
United States v. Chemical Foundation,Inc., 272 U. S. 1.
As, stated by Mr. Justice Story in Martin v. Mott, supra,
pp. 31-32: "Whenever a statute gives a discretionary
power to any person, to be exercised by him upon his own
opinion of certain facts, it is a sound rule of construction, that the statute constitutes him the sole and exclusive judge of the existence of those facts."
For .the judiciary to probe the reasoning which underlies this Proclamation would amount to a clear invasion
of. the legislative and executive domains. Under the
Constitution it is excrusively for Congress, or those to
whom it delegates authority, to determine what tariffs
shall be imposed., Here the President acted in full conformity with the statute. No question of law is raised
when the exercise .of his discretion is challenged.
The other points raised are so unimportant as not to
merit discussion.
Reversed.
MR. JTUSTICE M&REYNOLDS is of the opinion that the.
judgment below should be affirmed.

