BORCHARD v. CALIFORNIA BANK.
296

-

Statement of the Case.

Although the contents of the record. not unnaturally
aroused animosity, we think that, in the absence of a
statute narrowly drawn to define and punish specific conduct as constituting a clear and present danger to a
substantial interest of the State, the petitioner's communication, considered in the light of the constitutional guarantees, raised no such clear and present menace to public
peace and order as to render him liable to conviction of
the common law offense in question."0
The judgment affirming the convictions on the third
and fifth counts is reversed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

Reversed.
BORCHARD ET AL. v. CALIFORNIA BANK ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 752. Argued April 30, 1940.-Decided May 20, 1940.
In a proceeding under § 75 (s) of the Bankruptcy Act, the debtors
petitioned the conciliation commissioner for an appraisal and the
setting aside of the property to them (no action having been taken
upon a previous petition); appraisers were appointed and made
report to the commissioner of the value of the property, but no
stay order fixing terms on which the debtors would remain in possession had been entered. Held, the action of the District Court,
at that stage, in granting leave to a creditor to sell the property
under deeds of trust was contrary to the provisions of § 75 (s).
P. 316.
107 F. 2d 96, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 309 U. S. 648, to review the affirmance of

an order of the District Court, in a proceeding under
" Compare Schenck V. Un'fted States, 249 U. S. 47, 52; Herndon v.
Lowry, 301 U. S. 242, 256; Thornhill v. Alabama, ante, p. 88.

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion 6f. the Court.
r

310 U. S.

§ 75 (s) of the Bankruptcy Act, authorizing, the sale of
the debtors' property -under deeds of trust.-

Messrs. Lloyd S. Nix and William Lemke for petitioners.
Mr. Thos. W. Henderson, with whom Mr. Chas. Y.
Don.nelly was on the brief, for respondents.
MIa. JUSTICe ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.,
We granted certiorari in this case for the reason that
it presents important questions with respect to the procedure required -by § 7 5.(s) of the BankruptcI Act, as
amended.'
The precise matter in controversy is whether the bankruptcy court may permit foreclosure of mortgage lien's
where the procedure prescribed by § 75 (s) has not been
followed.
The petitioners, husband and wife, are farmers. Over
the period January 24, 1927 to June 19, 1933, they ,borrowed from the respondent, the California Bank, a total
of $87,56'6.93, in varying amounts, executing to the bank
their, promissory notes for the respective loans together
with deeds of trust 2 on their farm real estate as security.
From time to time they made payments which reduced
the principal of the indebtedness to $53,919.20. The
lender; in the meantime, had made some advances to'wards the payment of taxes on the property. Further to
ecure their indebtedness they executed, onl January 30,
1934, a mortgage on all the crops standing or growing, or
'Act of March 3, 1933, c. 204, 47 Stat. 1467; Act of June 28, 1934,
c. 869, 48 Stat. 1289; Act of August 28, 1935, c. 792; 49 Stat. 942.
The Act has been further amended in particulars not here important
by the Act of June 22, 1938, 52 Stat. 840, 939. Section 75, as it now
stands, is Tit. 11, U. S. C. § 203.
'The deeds of trust ran to- the respondent Trust Company as
I
trustee.

BORCHARD v. CALIFORNIA BANK.
311

313

Opinion of the Court.

which should thereafter be planted, grown, cultivated, cut,
gathered, packed, or harvested, during the life of the
mortgage on certain of their farm real estate.
November 17, 1934, they filed their petition under §.75
of the Bankruptcy Act, which was approved and referred
to a Conciliation Commissioner. In January 1935 the
respondent bank declared defaults, and recorded notices
thereof and of its election to cause the property to be
sold pursuant to the deeds of trust, and the law of California.
March 25, 1935, the Conciliation Commissioner appointed appraisers who filed an appraisal on May 1 valuing the debtors' real estate at $68,550. It is to be noted
that § 75 contains no provision for appraisal during the
course of the conciliation proceedings covered by subsections (a) to (r) ; nor do we find any rule of the District
Court providing for appraisal at this stage of the cause.
The transcript of record does not disclose whether this
appraisal was asked by any creditor or by the debtors.
So far as appears, the order for the appointment of appraisers was made by the Conciliation Commissioner of
his own motion.
The debtors were unable to obtain the requisite acceptance of creditors to the composition and extension proposal they submitted. As a consequence, they amended
their petitions and prayed to be adjudicated bankrupts
in accordance with the provisions of § 75 (s). The petition was granted and an adjudication entered May 6,
1935. Apparently no further proceedings were taken
until June 26, 1935, when the bankruptcy cause was dismissed on the ground that this court had held § 75 (s)
unconstitutional.' On the same day the debtors petitioned a local court for relief under a State moratorium
act and obtained an order granting a moratorium, which
'Louisville Joint Stock Land Bank v, Radford, 295 U. S. 555.

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

remained in effect until September 20, 1935, when the
debtors filed: a petition for reinstatement of the bankri,ptcy cause in accordance with the amendment of § 75
(s) ado ted to meet the decision in the Radford case.
On the same date the District Court approved the petition, ordered the proceedings reinstated, and referred the
case to a Conciliation CommissioA1ea-n :accordance with
restrained the rethe provisions of § 75 (s).- -Tli-r
spondents from selling, or proceeding with a sale of, the
real estate covered by the deeds of trust and also enljoined
them from collecting from packers or processors the proceeds of crops covered by mortgage, until the further
order of the court.
October 18,, 1935, the petitioner Franz J. Borchard
presented his petition to the Conciliation Commissioner
praying that appraisers be appointed; that his exempt
property be set aside to him, and that he be allowed to
retain possession, under the supervision and control, of
the *court,of all of the remainder of his"property, and for
such further order as might be just and proper in the
premises, as authorized by § 75 (s). Shortly thereafter
the debtors filed a petition for an order on the bank to
compel it to release its asserted claim to the crop of
oranges grown on their property in 1935. In opposition
the bank not only asserted the validity of its lien, but
urgpd that the proceedings be dismissed because § 75 (s),
as amended, was unconstitutional. The District Judge
held that the bank had a lien on the, 1935 orange crop
but refrained from passing upon the validity of § 75 (s),
stating that he would decide that question at a later date
if the parties so desired. Apparently the parties requested
a ruling, and, on May 15, 1936, the Judge overruled the
contention of the bank and refused to dismiss the
proceedings.
Act of August 28, 1935, c. 792, 49 Stat. 942.

BORCHARD v. CALIFORNIA BANK.
311

Opinion of the Court.

Nothing having been done pursuant to the petition for
appraisal and award of possession to Franz J. Borchard,
the petitioners and respondents, on May 27, 1936, filed in
the District Court a stipulation by the terms of which
$3,900, held by third parties, being the proceeds of 1935
crops harvested from the premises, was to be paid to the
bank and by it expended for the cultivation and improvement of the land. The District Court accordingly ordered
the sum paid to the bank. June 10, 1937, the parties
stipulated that $2,494, like proceeds of crops harvested,
be paid to the bank, to be expended for the cultivation of
the farm. The court so ordered. December 20, 1937, a
stipulation was filed and an order made that $2;-00 be
paid to the bank, $1,500 to the debtors, and $946 applied
to taxes. Finally, on March 7, 1938, pursuant to stipulation, $1,763 was released from the hands of third parties
to be expended for the cultivation and preservation of
,the mortgaged real'estate. The stipulation further provided that the bank should receive the monies realized
from the sale of then growing crops and should apply
them, so far as necessary, to maintain and protect the
orange grove on the property.
All of the stipulations reserved the rights of the parties
and were to be without prejudice to such rights.
May 24, 1938, the debtors petitioned the Conciliation
Commissioner for an appraisal and the setting aside of
the property to them. 'June 22, 1938, appraisers Were
appointed and they reported the value of the real estate
as $87,300. It does not appear what, if any, proceedings
were had before the Conciliation Commissioner upon the
coming in of the appraisers' report. The petitioners assert that the Commissioner was considering the terms of
an order for a stay and the conditions to be inserted in
that order.,, On November 10, 1938, however; the bank
filed its petition in the District Court, for 'leave to sell
under its trust deeds. The petition recited the facts as

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

above outlined, stated the principal and interest due under
the various notes; set forth the amount of the advances
the bank had made for taxes and other accounts, and
showed an existing indebtedness, secured by deeds of
trust and mortgage, totaling $89,246.82. It alleged that
the mortgaged premises would not bring more than $65,000; that the bank had already suffered a serious loss;
and that further delay in the sale of the property would
entail a greater one. The court took testimony as to value
and concluded that the real estate was not worth more
than $65,000. It found that, as the debtors had had several years within which to arrange an adjustment of their
obligations and had been unable so to do, it was fair and
equitable that the bank be allowed to proceed so as to
save itself further loss. The petition was granted and the
outstanding restraining order was dissolved.
On appeal by the debtors the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed the decree,- holding that the District Court's
action was justified by our decision in Wright v. Vinton
Branch Bank, 300 MX S. 440.
We are of opinion that the action of the District Court
in permitting the creditor to proceed to a sale for the
enforcement of its liens at this stage of the proceeding
was contrary to the provisions of § 75(s).. That this is
so is made plain by our decisions in Wright v. Vinton
Branch Bank, supra, and John Hancock Ins. Co. v.
Bartels, 308 U. S. 180. As was said in the latter case
(p. 187):
"The scheme of the statute is designed to provide an
orderly procedure so as to give whatever relief may properly be afforded to the distressed farmer-debtor, while
protecting the interests of his creditors by assuring the
fair application of whatever property the debtor has to
Borchard v -CalifrrniaBank, 107 F. 2d 96.

BORCHARD v. CALIFORNIA BANK.
311

Opinion of the Court.

the payment of their claims, the priorities and liens of
secured creditors being preserved."
That orderly procedure includes an application by the
debtor, such as was made in the present case, for an
appraisal of the property, an order thtit the debtor remain in possession upon terms fair and equitable to him
and to secured creditors, and the entry of a stay which
will assure him of his possession for three years from the
date of the order, upon the conditions mentioned in the
Act. As a prerequisite to an intelligent determination of
the terms under which the debtor isto remain in possession, the statute requires that the court and the parties shall be informed of the fair value of the property.
As pointed out in the Wright case, -spra, the secured
creditors' rights are protected to the extent of the value
of the property. The court may order rent to be paid
by the.debtor, may order him to make payments on acaccount of principal, and, in its continuing control over
the property, may enter any other orders-for the protection of the debtor and secured creditors which the situation requires. Failure of the debtor to comply with any
such orders may eventuate in a sale.
Instead of prosecuting the cause before the Conciliation Commissioner pursuant to the debtors' petition, the
bank resorted to a procedure not contemplated by the
statute, evidently on the theory that it could -obtain
some advantage by that course. By written stipulations
the bank consented to the retention of possession by the
'debtors and arranged that they should coperate in the
cultivation of the farm, proceeds of the crops being used
for further cultivation and conservation of the real estate, for payment of taxes, and for payments to the
debtors. For more than thirty-one months after the
petition for appraisal was filed no action was taken. An
appraisal was thereafter made. No stay order has been

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

310 U.S.

entered fixing terms on which the debtors are to remain
in possession. The petitioners were' entitled to compliance with the procedure required by the statute., The
bank, at any time, could have obtained action by the
Conciliation Commissioner and the court, in accordance
with the statute. It cannot now maintain that the disorderly and unauthorized procedure followed by the parties is the equivalent of that prescribed by the statute
and that, as the petitioners have not been able to rehabilitate themselves, it is entitled to enforce its liens.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. BRADFORD DYEING ASSOCIATION (U. S. A.) ET AL.
"CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 588. Argued March 26, 27, 1940.-Decided May 20, 1940.
1. The National Labor Relations Act is applicable to an employer
whose business consists of dyeing and finishing goods moved to
and from its plant by their owners through the channels of interstate commerce. P. 324.
2. The Act is applicable even though the employer's business is small
in comparison with the industry to which it belongs. P. 326.
3. It is not material to the question of the Board's jurisdiction that
the customers of the processor, if the interstate movement of the
goods to and from the plant were stopped by a strike, might secure
the same services from other processors in the same State. P. 326.
4. Since the purpose of the Act is to protect and foster interstate
commerce, the Board can exert jurisdiction before industrial strife
occurs in the plant. P. 326.
5. Evidence before the National Labor Relations Board sustained its
findings:
(1) That two of the respondent company's employees were discharged for union activities. Pp. 326, 330.

