OSBORN v. OZLIN
41

Syllabus.

him, not upon the bank. The Constitution or laws of the
United States do not forbid such a tax.
(4) The tax being a permissible tax on customers of
the bank, it is settled by our prior decisions that the
statutory provisions requiring collection and remission of
the taxes do not impose an unconstitutional burden on
a federal instrumentality.2 Especially is this true since
the bank under the Colorado act is allowed three per
cent of the tax for the financial burden put upon it by
the obligation to collect.
Affirmed.

OSBORN

ET AL. V.

OZLIN

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

No. 592.

Argued March 27, 1940.-Decided April 22, 1940.

As to casualty and surety risku in Virginia, insured against by corporations authorized to do business in that State, a Virginia. law
requires that the insurance shall be "through regularly constituted
and registered resident agents 6r agencies of such companies";
and that such resident agents shall receive "the usual and cu.toniary commissions allowed on such contracts," and may not
share more than one-half of a commission with a non-resident
licensed broker. Held:
1. That the regulation is constitutionally within the power of the
State, even though one effect of it may be to increase the cost of
"master" policies negotiated by brokers in other States, through
which an assured may obtain a reduced rate and commission by
pooling all of his risks, in and out of Virginia, in one contract.
Pp. 62-65.
2. As a basis for this legislation, the legislature was entitled to
act on the belief,
":NationalBank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353; Des Moines Bank
v. Fairweather,263 U. S. 103, 111; cf. Waite v. Dowley, 94 U. S.527;
Monamotor Oil Co. v. Johnson, 292 U. S.86, 93; Code of Iowa, 1931,
§ 5093a(5); Felt & Tarrant Co. v. Gallagher, 306 U. S. 62, 68;
McGoldiick v. Berwind-White Coal Co., 309 U. S. 33.

OCTOBER TERM.- 1939.
Argument for Appellants.

310 U. S.

(1) That, by requiring participation by responsible resident
agents, it would lessen the difficulty of enforcing the Virginia
system of insurance regulation and detect unlawful rebating. P. 63.
(2) That the limitation on sharing of agents' commissions would
assure the use of resident agents for the procuring and "servicing"
of policies covering local risk---functions which, when -atdcquately
performed, benefit the *comp'ny, the producer, aqd the :n..ured,
and, by minimizing the risks of casualty and loss, redound to the
benefit of the community. P. 64.
(3) That the agency system in view is better calculated io
further these ends than other modes of "production." P. 64.
3. -The regulations are well within the power of the State over
insurance against local risks. P. 66.
29 F. Supp. 71, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of 'the District Court of three
judges dismissing a bill to enjoin, the enforcement of a
statute regulating insurance in Virginia.

Mr. John Lord O'Brian, with whom 31r. Andrew D.
Christianwas on the brief, for appellants.
A State constitutionally may not regulate or penalize
the making, beyond its borders, of contracts of insurance
or surety upon persons or property located within the
State. Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co. v. Delta &
Pine Land Co.; 292'U. S. 143; Fidelity & Deposit Co. v.
Tafoya, 270 U. S. 426; Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Dunken, 266
U. S. 389; St. Louis Cotton Compress Co. v. Arkansas,
260 U, S. 346; Aligeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578. See,
also, Boseman v. Connecticut General Life Ins. Co., 301
U. S. 196; Home Ins. Co. v. Dick, 281 U. S. 397; New
York Life Ins. Co. v. Head, 234 U. S. 149. Distinguishing Bothwell v. Buckbee, Mears Co., 275 U. S. 274.
Under this statute no contract of insurance covering
risks in other States and including Virginia risks can be
made anywhere except within the State of Virginia.
§ 4226-a.
The contracts do not require or contemplate any illegal act within the State. Virginia has not attempted
either to regulate or prohibit the performance of such

OSBORN v. OZLIN.
53

Argument for Appellants.

contracts. The plaintiffs are licensed to do business in
Virginia, and no act of performing or servicing a contract
of insurance therein is prohibited to them by any Virginia
statute.
Many of the contracts are accident policies and fidelity
bonds similar to the contracts considered in the Bose man
and Delta & Pine Land cases, supra. These neither require nor contemplate performance or service in Virginia.
Yet the statute makes no distinction between these and
others, such as workmen's compensation' policies, which
do call for service within the State. It is not performance
and service within the State which Virginia attempts to
regulate and the statute is not to be justified on the
asserted basis of assistance of such regulation.
Distinguishing tax cases: Equitable Life Assur. Society
v. Pennsylvania,238 U. S. 143 and Compaiia General de
Tabacos v. Collector, 275 U. S. 87. Cf., Great Atlantic
& Pacific Tea Co. v. Grosjean, 301 U. S. 412.
It is apparent from §§ 4226 (a) and 4222 (a) that
plaintiffs' agents who are non-residents of Virginia and
who are compensated by commissions fall within the
statutory definition of non-resident brokers. and that,
taken together, these sections of the statute attempt to
prohibit the plaintiffs from issuing contracts produced
outside the State by the plaintiffs' agents duly authorized
and appointed in the State where licensed, unless such
agent be also licensed by Virginia after the payment of
a tax.
In thus regulating and prescribing the persons whom
the plaintiffs may select and appoint to represent them
in other States, and in prohibiting the plaintiffs from
making contracts of insurance or surety produced by
their agents in other States unless such agents shall have
been licensed by Virginia, that State is giving to its laws
extra-territorial operation, and is denying to the plaintiffs
due process of law. Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Tafoya,
27f0 U. S.426.

56

OCTOBER TERM. 1939.
Argument for Appellants.

310 %U.S.

If the business has been produced by an out-of-state
agent or broker who has been licensed by the State of
Virginia, the resident agent may, in his discretion, pay to
the actual-producer an amount not exceeding 50% of the
compensation received by him. It follows that if the
out-of-state producer has not been licensed by the State
of Virginia, the resident agent can not make any payment
to him. Thus the question of whether the resident agent
is to receive the full commissions or only 50% of them
is to .be determined not by the amount or value of his
services, but by the adventitious and unrelated question
of whether the out-of-state producer who brought the
business to the company was or was not licensed by the
State of Virginia. ' In the absence of a statutory provision
imposing any duties or responsibilities upon the resident
agent, this recuirement is unconstitutional. There is no
relationship 1Utween the amount of 'the required compensation and. the value of the services certain to .be
rendered by the recipient to the corporation which is
required to make the payments. Cf., West Coast Hotel
Co. v. Parrish,300 U. S. 379, 396; Morehead v. New York,
298 U. S. 587, 622-623; New York Life Ins. Co. v. Dodge,
246 U. S. 357, 382. For the simple task of countersigning-writing his name- he receives the statutory compensation. And the task which he must perform the
court below characterized-and the characterization can
hardly be disputed-as perfunctory.
The uncontradicted testimony shows that the amount
of compensation which the statute requires will be grossly
excessive.
There can be no justification for such a statute arbitrarily requiring excessive payments to be made in return
for the possibility of some services being rendered, highly
speculative in character and wholly undesired.
Nothing in O'Gorman & Young, Inc. v. Hartford Fire
Ins. Co., 282 U. S. 251. supports. a statute requiring large

OSBORN v. OZLIN.
53

Argument for Appellees.

payments, arbitrary in amount, to be paid by the corporate plaintiffs to agents for problematical services,--particularly where the payments, as the court below found,
will inevitably increase the expenses of the insurance
companies and the cost of insurance to the public. The
Fourteenth Amendment operates to prohibit the bold
expropriation of property by a State.
The prohibition of , 4222 (a) against salaried agents
countersigning deprives the corporate plaintiffs of their
property and the individual plaintiffs of their liberty and
property without due process of law and denies the individual plaintiffs the equal protection of the laws and is
therefore unconstitutional and void. Smith v. Texas, 233
U. S. 630; Louisville Gas & Electric Co. v. Coleman, 277
U. S. 32.
The individual plaintiffs were, prior to' June 21, 1938,
licensed insurance agents in Virginia and the only reason
they are not now so licensed is because they are salaried
employees.
Mr. Abram P. Staples, Attorney General of Virginia,
for appellees.
The regulations are restricted to acts of the insurance
company and its agents performed within the State, pursuant to and as a consequence of the negotiation of the
contract outside of the State:
The fact that a Virginia contract is negotiated and
made outside the State does not impair Virginia's jurisdiction to regulate the insurance company's acts and
transactions within the State in connection with or pursuant to such contract.
All casualty and surety policies and contracts covering
Virginia risks require or contemplate acts of performance
in Virginia.
The making outside of Virginia of an insurance contract which contemplates, requires, cr permits the doing

OCTOBER TERMf. 1939.
Opinion

of

The Couri.

310 U. S.

by the insurance company of acts in Virginia. constitutes,
as a matter of law, an exercise of the privilege of doing
an insurance business in Virginia.
The making outside of Virginia of a contract of insurance involving an exercise of a foreign insurance coipany's license right or privilege of doing business in
Virginia. brings the contract within the jurisdiction and
regulatory police power of Virgnia.
Virginia may prohibit the doing in Virginia by an insurance company licensee of any act in connection with
or in the performance of a Virgnia contract made by it
outside the State in violation of Virginia laws. by the
imposition of a fine or by revocation of said company's
license to do business in the State because of making
such contract in violation of her laws.
The objects and purposes sought to be attained by the
challenged legislation are legitimate and proper, and the
means employed to that end are not arbitrary or capricious but are reasonable and appropriately adapted
thereto.
The branch manager appellants have no standing in
court to complain of the statutory regulation requiring
insurance companies to make insurance contracts through
regularly constituted Vifginia resident agents, have them
countersign the policies and pay them the usual producer's
commission.
The statutory classification of agents and employees of
stock insurance companies is reasonable.
This case is not controlled by Hartford Stean Boiler
Co. v. Harrison,301 U. S. 459.
MR.JUSTCE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellants have challenged the validity of a Virginia
statute regulating the insurance of Virginia risks and have
brought this suit to enjoin state officers from enforcing

OSBORN v. OZLIN.
53

Opinion of the Court.

it. Its relevant provisions, copied in the margin,' forbid
contracts of insurance or surety by companies authorized
to do business within that Commonwealth "except
through regularly constituted and registered resident
agents or agencies of such companies." § 4222, c. 218,
Acts of 1938. Such resident agents ."shall be entitled to
and shall receive the usual and customary commissions
allowed on such contracts," and may not share more than
half of this commission with a lion-resident broker.
§ 4226-a. Disobedience of these provisions (from which
life, title and marine companies are exempted) may entail
a fine or revocation of the corporate license in Virginia, or
both. A district court of three judges, convened under
§ 266 of the Judicial Code as amended, 28 U. S. C. § 380,
dismissed appellants' bill on the basis of elaborate findings
of fact and conclusions of law, set forth in an opinion
by Circuit Judge Soper. 29 F. Supp. 71. From this
'The relevant portions of the Virginia statute ate as follows:
"Section 4222 ....

(a) Insurance companies, legally authorized to

do business in this State, except life, title and ocean marine insurance
companies, shall not make contracts of insurapce or surety on persons
or property herein, except through regularly constituted and registered
resident agents or agencies of such companies; no contract of insurance
or surety covering persons or property in this State, except contracts
of life, title and ocean marine insurance and except temporary binders
covering other forms of insurance shall be written, issued or delivered
by any such authorized insurance company, or any of its representatives, unless such contract is duly countersigned in writing by a resident agent or agency of such'company; provided, however, that the
countersignature of an insurance agency shall not be considered valid
unless such countersignature be attested to in writing by a regularly
constituted and registered resident agent of such company.
"No State agent, special agent, company representative, salaried
officer, manager or other salaried representative of any legally authorized insurance company, except a mutual insurance company, shall
countersign any contract of insurance or surety, or any renewal
thereof, covering persons or property in this State, except contracts
of life, title and ocean marine insurance: provided that this section

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

decree the case comes here on appeal under § 238 of the
Judicial Code as amended, 28 U. S. C. § 345.
The bill was brought by foreign corporations authorized
to do casualty and surety business in Virginia, and by some
of their salaried employees. It is their claim that the
statute deprivps them of rights protected by the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution. The exact nature
of these claims will appear more clearly in the setting of
the illuminating findings below which may here be
abbreviated.
The "production"" of insurance--"production" being
insurance jargon for obtaining business-is, in the main,
carried on by two groups, agents and brokers. Though
'both are paid by commission, the different ways in which
the- two groups perform :their functions have important
practical consequences in the conduct of the insurance
business, and hence in its regulation. The agent is tied to
shall not apply to railroad companies and other common carriers
engaged in interstate commerce.

"Section 4226-a. ....
No resident agent or agency may write,
c6untersign, issue, or deliver .any contract of insurance or surety
upon persons or.property in this State unless there shall be collected
at the time the contract is written, issued or delivered, or within a
reasonable time'thereafter, the full premium on such contract, and
the ,resident. agent or agency shall be entitled to and shall receive
the usual and customary commissions allowed on such contracts, pro* vided that such resident 'agent or agency may write such contracts
at the request only of such other resident agents .or agencies, when
such agent or agencies are properly licensed to transact the clas,.
of business involved in such exchange, and licensed non-resident insurance brokers who may be authorized by law to broker such contracts, and on exchange of business between resident agents or agencies
in Virginia and licensed non-resident insurance brokers in other states
the resident agent or agency in Virginia may allow or pay to such
licensed non-resident insurance brokers, a commission -not exceeding
fifty per centum of the resident agent's or agency's commission allowed
on such business."

OSBORN v. OZLIN.
5:3

Opinion of the Court.

his company. But his ability to "produce" business depends upon the confidence of the community in him. He
must therefore cultivate the good will and sense of dependence of his clients. He may finance the payment of
premiums; he frequently assists in the filing and prosecution of claims; he acts as mediator between insurer and
assured in the-diverse situations which arise. The broker;
on the other hand, is an independent middleman, not tied
to a particular company. He meets more specially the
needs of large customers, using their concentrated bargaining power to obtain the most favorable terms from competing companies. His activities, being largely confined to
the big commercial centers, take place mostly outside
Virginia.
A policy, whether "produced" by broker or agent, must
be "serviced"-an insurance term for assistance rendered
a customer in minimizing his risks. To this end the companies exert themselves directly, but the "producer" may
render additional service. Only to a limited extent can
risks be minimized at long range; local activity is essential.
When the contract is "produced" by a non-resident broker
the "servicing" function is normally performed by the
company exclusively. When the "producer" is a resident
agent, the case is ordinarily otherwise. For this, as well
as for other reasons, it is obvious that non-resident brokers
prefer to negotiate their contracts covering Virginia risks
with companies authorized to do business in that. Commonwealth.
These basic elements in the insurance business attain
special significance in the case of enterprises operating not
only in Virginia but in other states as well. For them the
brokerage system offers the attractions of large-scale production. Through what is known as a master or "hotchpotch" policy, the assured may obtain a cheaper rate by
pooling all his risks, whether in or out of Virginia. This
wholesale insurance may furnish not only a reduced rate

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

but a reduced commission to the customer. These are
advantages which naturally draw the Virginia business of
interstate enterprises away from local agents in Virginia
to the great insurance centers.
In affecting the cost of these master policies, say the
appellants, Virginia is intruding upon business transactions beyond its borders. Not only is a licensed company
forbidden to write insurance except through a resident
agent, , but the agent cannot, retain less than one-half of
the customary commission allowed on such a contract .
for what may, so far as the requirements of the law are
concerned, be no more than the perfunctory service of
countersigning the policy.
But the question is not whether what Virginia has done
will restrict appellants' freedom of aciion outside Virginia
by subjecting the exercise of such freedom to financial
burdeos: The mere fact that state action may have
repercussions beyond state lines is of no judicial significance so long as the action is not within that domain
which the Constitution forbids. Alaska Packers Assn. v.
Cdmzrn'n, 294 U. S. 532; Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. v.
Grosjean,-301U. S. 412. Compare EquitableLife Society
v. Pennsylvania,238 U. S. i43. It is equally immaterial
that such state action may run counter to the economic
wisdom either of Adam Smith or of J. Maynard Keynes,
or may be ultimately mischievous even from the point
of view of avowed state policy. Our inquiry must be
much narrower. It is whether Virginia has taken hold
of a matter within her power, or ' has reached beyond her
borders to regulate a subject which was none of her concern because the Constitution has placed control elsewhere. Compare Wallace v. Hines, 253 U. S. 66, 69.
Virginia has not sought to prohibit the making of contracts beyond her borders. She merely claims that her
interest in the risks vihich these contracts are designed
to prevent warrants the kind of control she has here

OSBORN v. OZLIN.
53

Opinion of the Court.

imposed. This legislation is not to be judged by abstracting an isolated contract written in New York from the
organic whole of the insurance business, the effect of that
business on Virginia, and Virginia's regulation of it.
A network of legislation controls the surety and casualty business in Virginia. Insolvent companies may
not engage in it. Virginia Code, § 4180. Neither companies nor agents may give rebates. § 4222-c. Rates
for workmen's compensation, automobile liability and
surety contracts are determined by its Corporation Cornmission. §§ 1887 (75), 4326-a-1, 4350-3. The difficulty
of enforcing these regulations, so the District Court found,
may be increased if policies covering Virginia risks are
"produced" without participation by responsible local
agents. Rebates evading local restriction may be granted
under cover of business done outside the state. Contrariwise, if resident Virginia agents are made necessary
conduits for insurance on Virginia risks now included in
master policies, the state may have better means of
acquiring accurate information for the effectuation of
measures which it deems protective of its interests.:
Where out-of-state "production" actually leads to rebating in
defiance of § 4222-c, there would seem little doubt of a substantial
basis for Virginia's contention that the requirement of participation
by a resident agent will make the illegal practices more susceptible
of detection and control. Cf. La Tourette v. McMaster, 248 U. S.
465. Virginia has also contended that the master policy makes it
possible for the companies to reduce their rates below the requirements of state law, and to attribute the reductions to risks in other
states with requirements less stringent than those of Virginia. Appellants strenuously contend that no law of Virginia prohibits the reduction of rates for out-of-state risks to compensate for the higher
rates which might be required by Virginia and, therefore, there is no
illegal practice in"this connection which the existence of a resident
agent could aid in uncovering. This argument, if met on the merits,
would lead us into the particularities of Virginia's rate laws. It is
enough to say that even if these practices are not illegal, Virginia

64'

OCTOBER TERM., 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 L. S.

It is claimed that the requirement that not less than
one-half of the customary commission be retained by
the resident agent is a bald exaction for what may be
no more than the perfunctory service of countersigning
policies. The short answer to this is that the state may
rely on this exaction as a mode of assuring the active use
of resident agents for procuring and "servicing" policies
covering Virginia risks. These functions, when ade.quately performed, benefit not only the company, the
producer, and the assured. By minimizing the risks of
casualty and loss, -they redound in a pervasive way to
the benefit of the community.' At least Virginia. may
so have believed. And she may also have concluded
that an agency system, such as this legislation was designed to promote, is better calculated to further these
desirable ends than other modes of "production." I When
may have a legitimate interest in discovering the extent of their prevalence in order to devise, if she so chooses, effective laws to prevent
them.
' See Hardy, Risk and Risk-Bearing, pp. 9-28, 66-67; Kulp, Casualty Insurance, pp. 188-91, 467-68; Michelbacher, Casualty Insurance
Principles, pp. 448-78, 583-84; Crobaugh and Redding, Casualty
Insuranceb, pp. 17-20; Huebner, Foreword to . Modem Insurance
Tendencies,, 157 Annals of the American Academy of Political and
Social Science, pp. 3-4; Burns, Service o4 Casualty Insurance, 15th
Annual Meeting, Chamber of Commerce of the United States, p. 4.
"'The broker is not required to render any technical service beyond
the placing of business." Michelbacher, Casualty Insurance Principles,
p. 403. Compare Id., pp..401-402; Huebner, Property Insurance, pp.
81-96; Proceedings, 73rd Annual Meeting, National Board of Fire
Underwriters, p. 123; Clark, Efis and Fletcher, The Service of the
Broker to the Assured in Liability Insurance, Howe Readings in
Insurance, No. 18. But even if the broker does "service" the contract,his activities will take place in Virginia, and will affect the welfare
of those inside Virginia who may be subject to the incidence of those
risks which the "'servicing" function tends to reduce. If this be true,
it is Virginia's concern and not ours to prefer the agency to the
brokerage method of "production."

OSBORN v. OZLIN.
53

Opinion of the Court.

these beliefs are emphasized by legislation embodying
similar notions of policy in a dozen states,5 it would savor
of intolerance for us to suggest that a legislature could
not constitutionally entertain the views which the legislation adopts. Compare PrudentialIns. Co. v. Cheek, 259
U. S. 530, 537.
The present case, therefore, is wholly unlike those instances in which a "so-called right is used as part of a
scheme to accomplish a forbidden result." Fidelity &
Deposit Co. v. Tafoya, 270 U. S. 426, 434. For it is clear
that Virginia has a definable interest in the contracts she
seeks to regulate and that what she has done is very
different from the imposition of conditions upon appellants' privilege of engaging in local business which would
bring within the orbit of state power matters unrelated to
any local interests. It is not our province to measure
the social advantageto Virginia of regulating the conduct
of insurance companies within her borders insofar as it
affects Virginia risks. Government has always had a
special relation to insurance. The ways of safeguarding
against the untoward manifestations of nature and other
vicissitudes of life have long been withdrawn from the
benefits and caprices of free competition.6 The state may
fix insurance rates, German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Lewis, 233
U. S. 389; it may regulate the compensation- of agents,
'Alabama Code, § 8379; Kansas, General Statute (Supp.), c. 40,
§ 246; Louisiana, Acts of 1918, No. 153; Maryland, Annotated Code,
Art. 48A, § 65; Mississippi, Code, § 5205; Montana, Laws of 1937,
c. 95; Oklahoma, Statutes Ann., 'itle 36, §§ 126, 142, 249; South
Carolina, Code, § 7972; South Dakota, Code, § 31.2218; Washington,
Rev. Statutes, § 7080; Wisconsin, Statutes, § 201.44; Wyoming, Rev.
Statutes, c. 57,§ 203.

ISee Gephart, Principles of Insurance, pp. 233-55; Davon, Insurance Legislation (1895); Abstract of the Laws of Virginia in
Relation to Insurance Companies, etc., issued by the Auditor of
Public Accounts (1878); Patterson, The Insurance Commissioner
in the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford Fire Ins. Co., 282 U. S.
251; it may curtail drastically the area of free contract,
NationalIns. Co. v. Wanberg, 260 U. S. 71. States have
controlled the expenses of insurance companies, New York
Insurance Law, Consolidated Laws -of New York, c. 28,
§ 244, and Wisconsin Statutes, § 201.21; and see Report of
Joint (Armstrong) Insurance Investigation Committee
(N. Y.) pp. 403-18 (1906). They have also promoted
insurance through savings banks; see Berman, The Massachusetts System of Savings Bank Life Insurance, Bulletin No. 615, U. S- Bureau of Labor Statistics, and New
York Laws- of 1938, c. 471. In the light of all these. exertions of state powei iL does not seem possible to doubt
that the state could, if it chose, go into the insurance business, just as it can operate warehouses, flour mills, and
other business ventures, Green v. Frazier, 253 U. S. 233,
or might take "the whole business of: banking under its
control," Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104, 113.
If the state, as to local risks, could thus pregmpt the field
of insurance for itself, it may stay its intervention short
of such a drastic step by insisting that its own residents
shall have a share in devising and safeguarding protection
against its local hazards. La Tourette v. MoMaster, 248
U. S. 465. All these are questions of policy not for us to
judge. For it can never be emphasized too much that
one's own opinion as to the wisdom of a law must be
wholly excluded when one is doing one's judicial duty.
The limit of our inquiry is reached when we conclude that
Virginia has exerted its powers as to matters w'ithin the
bounds of her control.
In reaching this conclusion we have been duly mindful
of the cases urged upon us by appellants. In Algeyer v.
Louisiana,165 U. S. 578, apart from the doubts that have
been cast upon the opinion in that case, the state attempted to penalize the making of contracts by its residents outside its borders with companies which had never
subjected themselves to local control. Thus the statute

OSBORN v. OZLIN.
53

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

was thought to be directed not at the regulation of insurance with-in the state, but at the making of contracts with-.
out. This was followed in St. Louis Compress Co. v. Arkansas, 260 U. S. 346; but see the refined distinctions
drawn inCompaiiiade Tabacos v. Collector, 275 U. S. 87.

In Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Tafoya, supra, the Court
found that New Mexico had exceeded its power by for-

bidding "the payment of any emolument of any nature to
any [non-resident] for the obtaining, placing or writing
of any policy covering risks in New Mexico." The Court
was of opinion that this statute went "beyond any legitimate interest of the State, . . ." ibid. at 435, but carefully withheld its judgment as to the validity of a later
New Mexico statute not unlike the Virginia law here under
review.7
The decree must be
Affirmed.
AIR. JuSTICE ROBERTS, dissenting:
I am unable to agree with the decision in this case. I
think it sanctions an exertion of power by Virginia over
transactions beyond her jurisdiction.
Hartford Indemnity Co. v. Delta Co., 292 U. S. 143, resting on
Home Ins. Co. v. Dick, 281 U. S. 397, held that.the terms of a
contract validly made in Tennessee could not be'subsequently enlarged
by Mississippi as to a condition of "substantial importance" when
suit was later brought on the policy in Mississippi, simply because
"the interest insured was in Mississippi when the obligation to indemnify... matured, and it was... [the company's] duty to
make payment there." 292 U. S, at 149. At the time the contract
was entered into Mississippi had no interest in the risk covered. The
Court felt that, even at the time of suit, "performance at most involved only the casual payment of money in Mississippi," ibid. at
150, and that was an interest so subordinate to that of Tennessee
that the latter was entitled to have the right of way. No question
was thus involved touching the right of a state to regulate companies
doing businesi within its borders as to contracts of insurance covering
local risks.

OCTOBER TERM. 193).
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

310 U. S.

Virginia may, of course, regulate the making of contracts of insurance within her borders. She may require
such contracts to embody specified provisions. She may
regulate the enforcement of these contracts in her courts.
She may supervise and condition the activities of registered foreign insurance companies, agents or brokers
within the Commonwealth. The statute in question has
no such purpose.
The purpose and effect of the statute axe to compel an
insurance company whicn is a citizen of another state,
and which negotiates a contract-of insurance with an agent
or broker within such other state, to pay a resident of
Virginia for a service not rendered by him, but rendered
by another in another state. By force of the statute a
Virginia agent must countersign a contract negotiated outside of Virginia with an assured whose residence is outside
of Virginia, which contract of insurance was
negotiated by
an agent or broker living outside of Virginia. The courntersigning Virginia agent must be paid one-half the usual
commission, even though the broker or agent who produced the business is licensed as a non-resident broker by
Virginia, although the only service such Virginia agent is
required to render and, in many cases all he does render,
is the mere countersignature of the policy. With respect
to this situation the court below said:
"We do not overlook the peculiar situation of the nonre~ident assured who form no part of the Virginia public
which the state desires to protect: Undoubtedly their
business methods will be disturbed by the enforcement
of the statute. It is contended, not without merit, that
they have no need for the services of the resident commission agents, and that in fact, the latter cannot assume
the function of producing agents in their behalf without
harmfully intruding themselves into confidential business
affairs. Moreover, it is fair to say that these affairs are
so important and so widespread in their scope as to be

HELVERING v. FULLER.
53

Syllabus.

beyond the technical knowledge and skill of the average
Virginia agent, and that the interests of the non-resident
assureds can be best looked after by the brokers at the
great centers of population where the head offices of the
insurance companies and of the assureds are located, and
in Virginia. by the engineering and claim personnel of the
companies. It is also true that the substantial compensation required by the statute to be paid to the Virginia
agents will increase the cost of the business."
The plain effort of Virginia is to compel a nonresident
to pay a resident of Virginia for services which tle latter
does not in fact render and is not required to render. The
principles underlying former decisions of this court are
at war with the existence of any such asserted power.'
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR.JUSTICE
in this opinion.

MCREYNOLDS

join

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. FULLER.
CERTIORARI TO THE. CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No.

427.

Argued

March 26,

1940.-Decided

April 22,

1940.

In compliance with a separation agreement approved by a decree

of divorce in Nevada, the husband created an irrevocable trust, of
shares of stock, to continue for ten years, during which period
all-trust income was to be used for the maintenance and support of the wife, or in case of her prior decease, then for the
1

Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; New York Life Ins. Co. v.
Head, 234 U. S. 149; Aetna Life Is.Cp.. v. Dunken, 266 U. S.389;
Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Tafoya, 270 U. S. 426; Home Ins. Co. v.
Dick, 281 U. S. 397; Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co. v. Delta
& Pine Land Co., 292 U. S.143; Boseman v. Connecticut General
Life Ins. Co., 301 U. S.196

