CASES ADJUDGED
L THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1939
UNION JOINT STOCK LAND BANK OF DETROIT
v. BYERLY.
CERTIORARI TO TM CIRCUIT COURT OF APPFALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 579.

Argued March 6, 1940.--Decided April 22, 1940.

1. Under § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act, prior to the amendment of
August 28, 1935, an order of the bankruptcy court, made in a proceeding for composition and extension, and permitting a sheriff's
sale to be made, subject to confirmation, under a decree of foreclosure previously entered in a state court, was erroneous if not
granted on petition and after hearing and report by the condiliation'commissioner, but was not void and could not be attacked
collaterally in a state court. P. 7.
2. Jurisdiction of a state court in foreclosure, suspended by the institution-of a proceeding under § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act, agaih.
attached upon dismissal of the bankruptcy case and empowered
the state court to confirm a foreclosure sale previously made and
to order a sheriff's deed. P. 8.
3. Reinstatement under the Act-pf 1935, mspra, of a proceeding under§ 75 (s) previously dismissed, did not invalidate a sheriff's sale and
deed which were confirmed 'and authorized by a state court acting
ithin its jurisdiction during the interval between the dismissal
of the bankruptcy case and the motion to reinstate it. P. 8.
4. There is no occasion to refer a cause under § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act to a conciliation commissioner for the administration
of property which, by rbason of foreclosure proceedings already
consummated in a state court, no longer belongs to the debtor.
P. 10.
106 F. 2d 576, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM. 1939.

2

Opinion of the Court.
CERTIORARI,

310 U.S.

309 U. S. 643, to review a judgment revers-

ing the district court in bankruptcy which. in a proceeding
under § 75 (s), denied rehearing of an order of disclaimer
and refused to refer the cause to a conciliation commissioner.
Mr. Ralph G. Martin, with whom Mr. A. G. Masters
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Eimer McClain and William Lemke for respondent.
MR. JusTicE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
September 1, 1932, the petitioner instituted a mortgage
foreclosure suit against respondent in the Common Pleas
Court of Madison County, Ohio. The cause was prosecuted to judgment and advertisement was made of a sheriff's sale of the property to take place November 24, 1934.
November 19, 1934, the respondent filed his petition in
the United States District Court under § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act,' and the court issued an order restraining proceedings in the foreclosure suit until the further order
of the court.
November 23, 1934, the District Court, on application
of the petitioner, without reference of the matter to a
conciliation commissioner, modified the restraining order
to permit the sale of the premises as advertised but enjoined any further proceedings, particularly confirmation
of the sale or execution of sheriff's deed.
November 24, 1934, the sheriff, as permitted by the
modification of the restraining order, held the sale as advertised. The petitioner bid the property in and the sheriff
made return of the sale,
'Act of March

3, 1933, c. 204, 47

Stat. 1467, 1470.

UNION LAND BANK z. BYERLY
Opinion of the Court.

December 14, 1934, the District Court approved the
respondent's petition under § -75 of the Bankruptcy Act
and ordered a reference to a conciliation commissioner.
The latter reported that no agreement, could be reached
between the respondent and his creditors.
February 11, 1935, the respondent abandoned proceedings under subsections (a) to (r) of § 75 and filed an
amended petition to be adjudged a bankrupt pursuant to
§ 75 (s).
May 27, 1935,- this court held certain features of
75 (s) unconstitutional. Louisville Joint Stock Land
Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S. 555.
August 26, 1935, on the. application of the respondent,
the District Court ordered that, because of the unconstitutionality of § 75 (s), the respondent's petition and
amended petition be dismissed -and that the case be
terminated.
August 28, 1935, § 75 was amended I to meet the decision in Louisville Bank v. Radford, supra. The Act,
as so amended, provided in paragraph 5 of § 75 (s):
"This Act shall be held to apply to all existing cases
now pending in any Federal court, under this Act, as
well as to future cases; and all cases that have been dismissed by any conciliation commissioner, referee, or
court because of the Supreme Court decision holding the
former subsection (s) unconstitutional, shall be promptlyreinstated, without any additional filing fees or charges."
September 10, 1935, the sheriff's sale was confirmed
by the Connon Pleas Court. Subsequently this action
was, on appeal by respondent, affirmed by the Court of
App4als of Madison County.,
September 11, 1935, the sheriff's deed was delivered to
the petitioner and was recorded.
2 Subsection

(s) was added to § 75 by the Act of June 28,.1934, c.
869, 48 Stat. 1289.
'Act of August 28, 1935, c. 792, 49 .l-at. 942.

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

September 24, 1935i the respondeht moved the District
Court for reinstatement of his bankruptcy case. The
motion was granted but apparently no amended petition
has been filed nor any adjudication entered under

75 (s).
M ay 8, 1936, the petitioner moved the District Court
for an order of disclaimer of the real estate in question.
October 22, 1936, an order of disclaimer was entered.
October 26 a petition for rehearing was filed by the respondent and was entertained by the court.
April 17, 1937, the respondent moved the District Court
that the proceedings in bankruptcy be referred to a conciliation commissioner pursuant to § 75 (s).
May 6, 1937, the District Court overruled the respondent's petition for a rehearing of the order of disclaimer.
May 8, 1937, the District Court overruled the motion
of the respondent to refer the cause to a conciliation commissioner.
May 27, 1937, the respondent petitioned the District
Court for an appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals from
the order denying his petition for rehearing of the order
of disclaimer and from the order denying his motion to
refer the cause to a conciliation commissioner and, on
the same date, the District Caurt allowed an appeal.
June 3, 1937, the respondent petitioned the Circuit
Court of Appeals for leave to appeal from the orders
of the District Court and, June 7, 1937, leave was granted.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the orders of
the District Court, holding that, at the time of filing
his new petition under § 75, as amended, the respondent
had a -property right-a' right, of redemption-in the
mortgaged premises, which had not been cut off by the
sale and its confirmation in the state court, and that
the cause should be referred to a conciliation commissioner and prosecuted before himl. On a~count of the
'Byly v. Union Joint Stock Land Bank, 106 F 2d -576.

UNION LAND BANK v. BYERLY.
Opinion of the Court.

importance of the question involved in the administration
of the Bankruptcy Act, we granted certiorari.
The petitioner asserts that the court below aired, as
the action of the District Court modifying the restraining order and permitting a sale of the mortgaged premiseg
was authorized by the Bankruptcy Act and, if- not, it is
binding upon the respondent since he failed to except*to
or appeal from it.
The petitioner further asserts that -the respondent's
procurement of. the termination of, the original bankruptcy case amounted to a waiver of any irregularity
which occurred while the prodeeding was pending and
precluded the respondent from objecting to such irregularity. Further,. petitioner contends that the sale made
by the sheriff did not change the legal status of the debtor
and his property since his right of redemption, under
Ohio law, remained until confirmation of the sale by the
state court; and, althpugh that court was without jurisdiction while the original bankruptcy proceeding was
pending, it regained such jurisdiction by the termination
of -the bankruptcy case, and had exclusive jurisdiction
of the parties and the subject matter, when the decree
of confirmation was entered. The claim .is that the decree of confirmation cannot be collaterally attacked in
the bankruptcy court..
The respondent, on the other hand, argues that the
express provisions of § 75, -in force at the time the sale
was made, rendered void the District Court's permission
to make the sale, and the sheriff's action in making it;
and that confirmation or delivery of a deed can give no
validity to such void action, which the bankruptcy court
should, therefore, have disregarded.
First. The actiofi of the District Court in permitting
the holding of the sale was not void but voidable; and
the sale made pursuant thereto was not void..
Section 75, as it stood during the pendency of the original bankruptcy proceeding, provided:

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court..

310 U. S.

. After the filing of the petition and prior to
"(e)
the confirmation or other disposition of the composition
or extension proposal by the court, the court shall exercise such-eontrol over the property. of the farmer as the
court deems in the best iiiterests of the farmer and his

creditors."

"(n) The filing of a petition pleading for relief under
,this section shall subject the farmer and his property,
wherever located, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the court.
In proceedings. under this section, except as otherwise
provided herein, the jurisdiction and powers of the court,
the title, powers, and duties of its officers, the duties of
the farmer, and the rights and liabilities of creditors, and
of all persons with respect to the property of the farmer
and the. jurisdiction of the appellate courts, shall be the
same as if a voluntary petition for adjudication had been
filedand a decree of adjudication had been entered on the
day when the farmer's petition or answer was filed."
"(o) Except upon petition made to and granted by
the judge after hearing and report by the conciliation
commissioner, the followinig proceedings shall not be instituted, or if instituted at any time prior to the filing
of a petition under this section, shall not be maintained,
in any court or otherwise, against the farmer or his property, at. any time after the filing of the petition, under
this section, and prior to the confirmation or other disposition of the composition or extension proposal by the
'court:"
"(6) Seizure, distress, sale, or other proceedings under
an execution or under any lease, lien, chattel mortgage,
conditional sale agreement, crop payment, agreement, or
mortgage."
The provisions of subsection (p) as it was when the
petition was filed have no application. That subsection
was amended by the act of August 28, 1935. supra; to

UNION LAND BANK v. BYERLY.

7

Opinion of the Couct.

provide !'The prohibitions of subsection (o) shal apply
to all judicial and official proceedings in any court or
under the direction of any official . . ." This ameidment was made after the dismissal of the bankruptcy
case.
Exclusive jurisdiction of the debtor and his property
vested in the District Court on the filing of the petition.
Up to that time jurisdiction of the debtor and the mortgaged property was in the state court. Without action
by the District Court the state court could not have proBut.without changing the status 'of the
ceeded further
debtor's right of redemption the federal court gave permission to the state officer to hold the sale. The -sale
was, however, incomplete until confirmation by the
court.' Until confirmed it amounted to an unaccepted
offer to purchase. No sale was consummated while the
bankruptcy proceeding'was pending.
In view of the provisions of subsection (o), it was error
for the District Court, in the absence of the preliminary
steps required by that subsection, to permit the sheriff to
hold the sale.- But the court had jurisdiction in the
premises. Error cormmitted by it in the exercise of that
jurisdiction could have been corrected by appeal from its
order. ' The state' court and its officer, the sheriff, were
entitled, in view of the District Court's plenary jurisdiction over the. debtor and his property, to rely upon the
order granting permission to-make the sale. The District
Court did not lose jurisdiction by erroneously construing
or applying provisions of the statute under which it administered the bankrupt estate. Its order was voidable,
-'Kalb v. Feuerstein, 308 U. S. 433.
'Bassett v. Daniels, 10 Oh. St. 617, 619; Reed v. Radigan, 42 Oh.

st. 292, 294.

;Kalb v. Feuerstein, supra.
a Compare John Hancock Mutual Life- Insurance Co. v. Bartels, 308
U.s. 180.

8

-QCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

but not void, and was not to be disregarded or attacked
collaterally in the state court.'
Second. The termination of the bankruptcy proceeding
restored the jurisdiction and power of the state court and
its further proceedings ii the foreclosure. suit were not
subject to attack in the bankruptcy court.
Although the state court's' jurisdiction was superseded
by that of the bankruptcy court, it again attached upon
the dismissal of the bankruptcy case, and, thenceforward,
as respects the .foreclosure suit, and the state-court's procedure, it was as if no bankruptcy case had ever existed.
With jurisdiction of the parties and the subject matter,
the state court entered a decree confirming the sale and
authorizing -a deed, the sheriff executed his deed, which
was duly recorded, and the petitioner went into possession
as purchaser of the mortgaged premises. Thereafter the
respondent moved for reinstatement of the bankruptcy
case and his motion was granted. In the -interim, no
bankruptcy cause was pending and the state court had
jurisdiction to procee.las it did.
We cannot assent to the view advanced by the respondent that the amendment to § 75 of August 28, 1935, automatically reinstated the earlier proceeding which had been
dismissed; or that the motion to reinstate the proceeding
operated by relation to close the gap.of twenty-nine days
between the dismissal of the original bankruptcy case, and
the state court's action in confirming, the sale, and to deprive the latter of jurisdiction to act in the interim. The
amendatory act merely authorized the reinstatement of
proceedings which had been dismissed. The case is analogous to one wherein a state court foreclosure proceeding
Thompson v. Tolmie, 2 Pet. 157, 163; Voorhees v. Bank of United

states, 10 Pet.. 449; Florentine v. Barton, 2. Wall. 210; Cooper v.
Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308; McNitt v. Turner, 16 Wall. 352, 366; Simmons v.'Saul, 138 U. S. 439; Noble v. Unio River Logging R. Co.,
S. 165, 173; Insley v. United States,. 150 U. S. 512.
147 U. ,(1

UNION LAND BANK v. BYERLY.
I

Opinion of the Court.

has been completed and deed delivered to the sheriff's
vendee prior to the filing of a petition under § 75VO- The
provision for the reinstatement, upon the debtor's motion, of a proceeding theretofore dismissed and finally
terminated, cannot affect the jurisdiction of the court conducting the foreclosure proceeding when no bankruptcy
cause was pending.
Wayne United Gas Co. v. Owens-Illinois Glasi Co., 300
U. S. 131, relied upon by the respondent, is not in conflict
with our decision. There a petition in bankruptcy filed
under § 77B was dismissed by the bankruptcy court, not
on motion of the bankrupt but at the instance of mortgage
creditors and over the bankrupt's objection. In due time
a petition for rehearing was filed. With notice of the
filing of this petition for rehearing, and that it would be
set for hearing before the bankruptcy court, the creditors
took further -steps in a "foreclosure proceeding pending in
a state court. The District Court entertained the petition for rehearing and on amended petition. The creditors who were prosecuting the foreclosure proceeding in
the state court appeared and were heard in opposition. In
entertaining the petition for rehearing the District Court
found that good cause existed for vacation of its order of
dismissal and. reconsideration of the cause; that the application for rehearing had been seasonably presented,
and that no rights had vested in reliance upon its earlier
order of dismissal which would be disturbed by setting
aside the order. The petition was dismissed, the debtor
appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals and was granted
a supersedeas. From an order of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming the-dismissal of the petition by the District
Court the debtor sought certiorari from this court. The
state court in which the foreclosure proceeding was pending had full notice of all of these facts when it proceeded
"See Wirihb v. Union Central Life Ins. Co.; 304 U. S. 502, 508.

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

to consummate the foreclosure sale. We held that, in the
circumstances, no rights were acquired under the state.
court proceedings since termination of the bankruptcy case
did not occur until final disposition of the efforts in the
District Court and on appeal to reverse the decree of
dismissal.
The District Court was right in refusing to refer the reinstated cause to a conciliation commissioner. Since the
foreclosure proceedings had been completed and title had
passed thereunder prior to the filing of the debtor's peti. tion for reinstatement, it would have been a -vain thing
to refer the cause to a conciliation commissioner for administration of property which no longer belonged to the
debtor.1 We have no occasion to pass upon the authority
of the court to enter an order of disclaimer. It is sufficieritthat the court's action in refusing to refer the cause
to a conciliation commissioner was justified. That order
we think, shoild have been affirmed.
It is said- that, even where title has passed from the
mortgagor in foreclosure proceedings before the filing of
the petitioh, the debtor should be, if he so requests, adjudicated a bankrupt so that a trustee may, if so advised,
challenge the validity of the sale. Here, however, there
is no suggestion of ahy infirmity in the petitioner's title
save that the salewai made in violation of the prohibitions of the Bankruptcy Act. But that sale was made under leave of the bankruptcy court and it was within the
state court's jurisdiction, when no bankruptcy proceeding
was pending, to confirm the sale and order delivery of a
deed. If it erred in that respect its'action was subject
to correction by appeal but not subject to attack in a
collateral prQceeding. . The fact is that the debtor appealed from the confirmation of.4he sale to the Court of
Appeals of Madison.County, Ohiowhich affirmed the deCompare WrTOht v. Union Central Life Ins. Co., supra.

UNION LAND BANK v. BYERLY.
I

Dissent.

cree of the Common Pleas Court. An issue of fraud
alleged to have been practiced upon the debtor to obtain
his withdrawal of his original bankruptcy proceeding was
there finally decided against him.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must
be
Reversed.
MR. JUSTIcE BLACK, MR.JUSTICE DOUGLAS,
JUSTICE MuviHY, dissenting.

and Ma.

We believe that to deny this farmer the benefits of the
Act because the purchase by the mortgagee at the sheriff's
sale was confirmed during the short interval between the
dismissal of his petition and its reinstatement, would be
largely to defeat the purposes of the Act.
After the original subsection (s) of the Frazier-Lemke
Act was declared unconstitutional by the decision of this
Court, May 27, 1935,1 this farmer's petition was dismissed,
August 26, 1935. A scant two days after the dismissal,
August 28, Congress enacted the present Frazier-Lemke
Act designed to supply the constitutional deficiency and
providing that all cases dismissed because of that decision
"be promptly reinstated." *-After the filing of the petition
and even before dismissal, the bankruptcy court allowed
this farmer's property to be sold by the sheriff under foreclosure in the state court. And it is admitted that the order
purporting to permit the sale was erroneous because entered in disregard of the requirements of subsection (oy.:
The Ohio state court confirmed the sheriff's sale, September 10; 1935, a (late prior to the lapse of the thirty da3;
'Louisville Joint Stock Land Bank v: Radford. 295 U. S. 555.
'§75 (s) (5).
'As we view the effect of reinstatement, it isumnecess-irv io de-

termine whether the bankruptcy court's order was not merely erroneous, but void.

OCTOBER TERM. 1939.
Dissent.

310 U. S.

which an appeal would lie from an order of
period within
4
dismissal.
Instead of appealing, the farmer, within the: thirty day
period, prayed relief from the dismissal decree by reinstatement in the District Court itself. In his applicatibn
for reinstatement, he alleged that dismissal of his petition
had been induced by the deliberate misrepresentations of
the m6rtgagee-bank, that he had no notice of the consummation of the sheriff's sale until several days after it took
place and that he wished to avail himself of § 75 as
amended August 28. Upon the prayer "that his.
proceeding . . . be reinstated as of the date of its
dismissal." the case was reinstated. We do not understand that either the power of the bankruptcy court
to reinstate or the reinstatement which was in fact granted,
,is,questioned.
Until disposition of the farmer's petition,. he was entitled to the protection and benefit of the Act, and the
bankruptcy court had exclusive jurisdiction of his property.a Dismissal of the proceeding did not constitute its
final 'disposition where 'reinstatement -was available.
Certainly, this must hold true at least for the period of
time after dismiissal during which the farmer had a statutory right to appeal from the District Court's action.
1IIU. S. C. 47, 48.
Kab 'v..Feuerstein.308 U. S. 4.33,
"An appeal is a proceeding in the original cause and the suit is
When the final judgpending until the appeal is disposed of ....
ment was reached it determined the rights of . . . [the partiesi
tib fiitio, ... " MacKenzie v. Enpelhard Co.. 266 U. S. 131, 142-143,
'Where a decree -has not been enrolled, or where it is subject io
"modifieation upon motion, or where the court might grint a relie:ring, or where an appeal might be taken, or where the costs had not
been taxed, or where no execution had issued-it not being in condition to issue execution-the case eotild not be said to have reached
that stage where it courd be said it was not pending in that court-:"
Brannon v. Kentucky. 162 Iy. 350, 357-8; 172 S. W. 703, 706. Of.

UNION LANI) BANK v. BYERLY.
1.

Dideent.

Otherwise, even -appeal might be wholly unavailing, and
futile. When a court of bankruptcy reinstates a case
previously retired from the docket, as this farmer's case
was reinstated, the court reconsiders the cause on the
merits upon the original as well as any supplemental
petitions unless rihts have "intervened which would
render it inequitable to reconsider the merits." Wayne
Gas Co. v. Owens Co.,' 300 U. S. 131, 137, 138. We find
no intervening equities here.
In the Wayne case, a corporate reorganization in 77B
was dismissed and subsequent to the dismissal a state
court confirmed a foreclosure sale of the debtor's property
which had been decreed prior to the filing'of the 77B
proceeding. After the Circuit Court of Appeals had denied the debtor's petition for allowance of an appeal
and the time for appeal as of right ,had expired, the
bankruptcy court reinstated the proceeding and reheard
the case upon the merits. The plan of' reorganization
was again found wanting and the court entered a second
order of dismissal. The debtor's appeal from the second
dismissal was in turn dismissed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals on the ground that lack of power in the District
Court in bankruptcy rendered the order of reinstatement-as"well as the second order of dismissal-void.'
When the case reached here, arguments presented by
the foreclosure purchaser were in substance those upon
which we are now asked to reverse the court below-that
the first order of dimissal had terminated the cause (so
that an appeal not taken- within thirty days of its entry
was not timely); and that the state court's confirmation
,State v. Tugwell, 19 Wash. 238; 52 P. 1056; 43 L. R. A. 717; Bloom
v. People, 23 Colo. 416; 48 P. 519; tate as rel. Andreu v. Canfield,
40 Fla. 36, 44; 23 So. 591; Brown v. Campbeg, 100 Cal. 635, 646;
35 P. 433; E parte Howlqnd, 3 Okla. Crim. 142; 104 P. 927; Ann.
Cas. 1912A, 840.
784 F. 2d 965.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Dissent.

310 U. S.

of sale, after dismissal, had finally divested the bankrupt
of all title to its foreclosed property leaving no property
for administration by the bankruptcy court (and the controversy was therefore moot).
This Court denied these contentions, aid held that the
dismissal had not terminated the proceeding; that the
controversy was not moot and that the District Court
had properly found that no intervening rights had accrued
to divest the debtor of its property foreclosed subsequent
to the dismissal in the bankruptcy court; that the rehearing had been sought in good faith and with due diligence
and that the Circuit Court of Appeals .had erred in not
passing upon the merits of a plan of reorganization which
included the property sold inder the state court's order.
The decision here thus approved the exercise of the bankruptcy court's jurisdiction over the encumbered property
of the debtor which, after dismissal, had been bought in
the state court foreclosure by creditors who were parties
to the 77B proceedings and who "went forward with the
proceedings in the state court, looking to a sale of the
debtof's property, with full knowledge that a rehearing
might be granted..."

Id., 135.

Accordingly, the case was not remanded to the District
Court for reconsideratioi of its finding that no rights
cognizable in equity had intervened as a result of the
state court foreclosure. Instead, the remand went to
the Court of Appeals for further proceedings. And that
court properly construed the mandate to require consideration of the merits of the debtor's plan which assumed ownership in the debtor of the particular property
upon which foreclosure had been attempted.'
So here, as in the Wayne case, state court proceedings
,subsequent to dismissal, but while further proceedings
could be had in bankruptcy, did not divest the debtor of
Wayne Gas Co. v. Owens-Illinois Glass Co., 91 F. 2d 827.

UNION LAND BANK v. BYERLY.
I

Dissent.

his property; there "was no abuse of sound discretion in
granting the motion [for reinstatement[ and reconsidering the cause"; the district court in bankruptcy had "the
power, for good reason, to revise its judgments [of disliissal and to reinstate] upon seasonable application and
before rights . . . [had] vested on the faith of its
action." Id., 137, 138. And its general power to do so,
at least during the 'period allowed for taking an appeal,'
was reinforced by recognition of the specific statutory
right of reinstatement in the amended 75(s), which
sprang into being only two days after dismissal of this
'farmer's petition. Paralleling the situation presented by
the Wayne case, not only was the mortgagee-purchaser
here a party to the 75 proceeding, but the state court itself
may be said to have acted with knowledge that the dismissal-of which it was notified---did not necessarily represent the last step in the federal court proceeding. Cf.
Id., 135.
Here, the only asserted rights which intervened against
this farmer-debtor were not those of a.bona fide purchaser.
The purchaser was the mortgagee who was a party to the
§ 75 proceeding and who relied-at least in part-on an
order of the bankruptcy court admittedly erroneous because contrary to the Frazier-Lemke Act, and rendered at
the mortgagee's instigation. Therefore, the mortgageepurchaser is not entitled to rely upon the status acquired
by it in the state court after dismissal "as precluding
further consideration of the petition" for composition.
Cf. Id., 135. To decide otherwise than that the dismissal
here did not deprive the farmer-debtor of the right to
proceed-before rights have vested-by reinstatement to
obtain the benefits of the Act, is to permit dismissal at
the instance of the farmer's creditors and without the
farmer's knowledge to prove a ready means of circumvent"See note 6, supra.

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

310 U. S.

ilig the Act.'0 . Title to a farm6r's property acquired in
"themanner pursued by petitioner cannot limit the power
of the bankruptcy court to afford the protection of and to
enforce this remedialjegislation.
UNITED STATES v. CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

N o. 587.

Argued March 28, 1940.-Decided April 22, 1940.

i.* Under the Raker Act of December 19, 1913, which granted to the.
City and County of San, Francisco certain lands and rights of way
in the Hetch-Hetchy Valley for use by the City in constructing
and maintaining a means of supplying water for the domestic
purposes of the City and other- public bodies, and in establishing
a system for generation and sale and distribution of electric energy,
-held:
That § 6 prohibits the City from transferring to a public utility
the right to sell electric power produced by the City under the
grant, in addition to forbidding sale of the p6wer itself as a
commodity for resale. P. 20.
Congress clearly intended to require-as a condition of its
grant-sale and distribution, of power exclusively by San Francisco and other municipal agencies directly to consumers in the
belief that consumers would thus be afforded power at cheap rates
in competition with private power companies. P. 26.
2. The City, instead of selling the power produced under the
grant directly to consumers at prices fixed by itself, delivered it
under a contract, for a fixed comrpensati6n, to a public utility
corporation, which; in turn, sold it to consumers in the City
and elsewhere, along with power produced by itself, at the iates
fixed from time to time by the Stite Railroad Commission. Held
that the contract is in violation of the Act, and can not be defended
upon the ground that the .City has a right to sell through the
corporation as its agent. P. 28.
Cf. In fe Price, 99 F. 2d 691, 694.

