404

OCTOBER TERM, 19a9.
Syllabus.

310 U. S.

whether appellant's coal was "bituminous" as defined in
the Act. Furthermore where, as here, Congress has
created a special administrative procedure for the determination of the status of persons or companies under a
regulatory act and has prescribed a procedure which
meets all requirements of due process, that remedy is
exclusive. See Anniston Manufacturing Co. v. Davis,
301 U. S. 337.
The decree below subjected appellant to payment of
taxes.accrued or assessed against it under ยง 3 (b) after
December 4, 1939. To relieve against payment of taxes
until final termination of the litigation would be to put
a premium on dilatory tactics in a situation where under
the authority of Currin v. Wallace, Mulford v. Smith,
and United States v. Rock Royal Co-operative, supra,
the subject of the Act was clearly one over which the
jurisdiction of Congress was complete.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS is of opinion that the Act
under review is beyond dny power granted to Congress
and that the judgment below should be reversed.
ANDERSON v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 682.' Argued April 2, 1940.-Decided May 20, 1940.
Oil properties, including fee interests, were sold for a specified money
consideration payable part in cash and the balance, with interest,
*Together with No. 683, Prichard v. Helvering, Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, also on writ of certiorari, 309 U. S. 645, to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit.

ANDERSON v. HELVERING.
404

Opinion of the Court.

from one-half of the proceeds to be received by the vendee from
the oil and gas to -be produced from the properties and from the
sale by him of the fee of any or all of the land conveyed. The
vendor was to have a first lien and claim against the one-half of
oil and gas production and fee interests from which the balance
was -payable. The proceeds from production and sales were to
go directly to the vendee, who was to deposit one-half to the.credit
of the vendor.. .Theagreement recited the vendor's desire to sell
all interest in the properties; and immediately upon its execution
they were conveyed to the vendee without reservation. Held that
the part of the gross proceeds which the vendee received from
production and sale' of oil from the properties, and paid over
to the vendor pursuant to the contract, should be included in the
gross income of the vendee, in computing his income tax under
the Revenue Act of 1932. P. 407.
107 F. 2d 459, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 309 U. S. 645, to review a judgment affirm-

ing a ruling of the Board of Tax Appeals.
Mr. Charles H. Garnett for petitioners.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Seuall Key, Joseph M. Jones, and Richard H. Demuth

were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Oklahoma City Company in 1931 owned certain royalty

interests, fee interests, and deferred oil payments in
properties in Oklahoma. During that year it entered
into a writte n contract with petitioner Prichard providing
for the conveyance to him of these interests for the agreed

consideration of one hundred sixty thous*and dollars, payable fifty thousand in cash and one hundred ten thousand

from one-half. of the proceeds received by him which
might be derived from oil and gas produced from the
properties and from the sale of fee title to any or all of

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

the land conveyed. Interest at the rate of 6% per annum
was to be paid from the proceeds of production and of
sales upon 'the unpaid balance. Oklahoma Company was
to have in addition a first lien and claim against "that
one half of all oil and gas production and fee interest
J..from which the $110,000 is payable," the lien and
claim "not in any way [to] affect the one-half interest
in all oil and gas production and fee interest or the revenue, therefrom which
. [it] is to have and receive
under. this agreement.," The proceeds derived from the
oil and gas-produced and from sales of the.fee interests
were to be paid directly to Prichard who was to deposit
one-half of them at a designated bank, at intervals of 90
days, to the credit of Oklahoma Company. The agreement recited that Oklahoma Company desired "to sell
all of its right, title and interest _of whatsoever nature"
in the described properties and provided that a copy of
the agreement and a release be placed in escrow for delivery 'to Prichard upon payment in full of the one hundred
ten- thousand dollars and interest. Immediately upon
the execution of the contract the properties were conveyed to Prichard without reservation.' In entering into
the agreement Prichard acted not only for himself but
also for petitioner Anderson, each of them having a 45%
interest.'
The gross proceeds derived from the production and
sale of oil from the properties' during 1932 amounted to
.

I'Petitioners

state that "the instruments of transfer of those prop-

erties were absolute and unqualified assignments and conveyances"
and that there was "no reservation of any sort. of interest, much less
any legal interest, specified in those assignments and conveyances."
I 'The remaining 10% interest was acquired for one Olsen, whose
case was consolidated witlh those of Prichard and Anderson, and disposed of in the same opinion below, but who has not sought review
here.
'The record does not indicate what portion of the gross proceeds
was derived from the production and sale of oil an& gas and what

ANDERSON v. HELVERING.
404

Opinion of the Court.

some eighty-one thousand dollars. ,Prichard, upon receiving this sum, distributed one-half to Oklahoma Company
pursuant to the contract. The question for decision is
whether the proceeds thus paid over to Oklahoma Company should be included in the gross income of petitioners
for the tax year 1932.' The ruling of the Board of Tax
Appeals against petitioners was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 107 F. 2d 459. Because of an asserted
conflict with the applicable decisions of this Court, we
granted certiorari. March 4, 1940.
It is settled that the same basic issue determines both
to whom income derived from the production of oil and
gas is taxable and to whom a dedudtion for depletion is
allowable. That issue is, who has a capital investment
in the oil and gas in place and what is the extent of his
interest. HeIvering v. Bankline Oil Co., 303 U. S. 362,
367; Helvering v. O'Donnell, 303 U. S. 370; Helvering v.
Elbe Oil Co., 303 U. S. 372; Thomas v. Perkins, 301 U. S.
655, 661, 663; Helvering v. Twin Bell Oil Syndicate, 293
U. S. 312, 321,; Palmer v. Bender, 287 U. S. 551. Compare Helvering v. Clifford, 309 U. S. 331.
Oil and gas reserves like other minerals in place, are
recognized as wasting assets. The production of oil and
gas, like the mining of ore, is treated as an incomeproducing operation, not as a conversion of capital investment as upon a sale, and is said to resemble a manufacportion, if any, was derived from sales of fees and from royalties on
leases. The Commissioner in determining deficiencies against petitioners, however, added $11,276.39 to the gross income of each with
the explanation that this amount represented "In-oil payments received in connection with the Patterson rOklahoma Company]
Deal" not reported by petitioners. Respondent, in view of this explanation by the Commissioner and the omission from the record
of any disclosure of the method of computing the $11,276.39 addition to gross income, accepts petitioners' statement that "the only
income from the properties here in dispute is from oil production."
' Revenue Act of 1932, e.209, 47 Stat. 169.

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310U. S1

turing business carried on by the use of the soil. Burnet
v. Harmel, 287 .U.S. 103, 106-107; Bankers Coal Co. v.
Burnet, 287 U. S.308; United States v. Biwabik Mining
Co., 247, U. ,S.116; Von Baumbach v. Sargent Land Co.,
242 U. S. 503, 521, 522; Stratton's Independence v. Howbert, 231 U. S. 399, 414. The depletion effected by production is likened to the depreciation of machinery or
the using up of raw materials in manufacturing. United
States v. Ludey, 274 U. .S. 295, 302-303; Lynch v.
Alworth-Stephens Co., 267 U. S. 364, 370. Compare Von
Baumbach v. Sargent Land Co., supra, at 524-525. The
deduction is therefore permitted as an act of grace -and
is intended as compensation for the capital assets consumed in the production of income through the severance
of the minerals. Helvering v. Bankline Oil Co., 303 U. S.
362, 366-367. The granting of an arbitrary deduction,
in the interests of convenience, of a percentage of the
gross income derived from the severance of oil and gas,
merely emphasizes the underlying theory of-the allowance
as a tax-free return of the capital consumed in the production of gross income through severance. Helvering v.
Twin Bell Oil Syndicate, 293 U. S. 312, 321;.United States
v. Dakota-MontanaOil Co., 288 U. S. 459, 467.
The sole owner and operator of oil properties clearly
has a capital investment in the oil in place- if anyone has,
and so is taxable on the gross proceeds of production and
is granted a deduction from gross income as compensation
for the consumption'of his capital. See Burnet v. Harmel, supra, at 107-108; Helvering v. Clifford, 309 U. S.
331. By an outright sale of his interest for cash, such an
owner converts the form of his capital investment, severs
his connection with the production of oil and gas and the
income ddrived from production, and thus renders inapplicable to his situation the reasons for the depletion
allowance. "The words 'gross income from the property,'
as used in the statute gqverning the allowance for deple-

ANDERSON v. HELVERING.
404

Opinion of the Court.

tion, mean gross income received from the operation of
the oil and gas wells by one who has a capital investment
therein,-not income from the sale of the oil and gas
properties themselves." Helvering v. Elbe Oil Land Co.,
303 U. S. 372, 375-376.
Other situations, falling between the two mentioned,
have been put on one side or the other as the cases arose.

The holder of a royalty interest-that is, a right to receive a specified percentage of all oil and gas pro duced
during the term of the lease--is deemed to have "an
economic interest" in the oil in place which is depleted
by severance. Palmer v. Bender, 287 U. S. 551, 557;
Murphy Oil Co. v. Burnet, 287 U. S. 299; Burnet v. Harmel, 287 U. S. 103. See Lynch v. Alworth-Stephens Co.,
267 U. S. 364. Cash bonus payments, when included in
a royalty lease, are regarded as advance royalties, and are
given the same tax consequences. Burnet v. Harmel, 287
U. S. 103; Murphy Oil Co. v. Burnet, 287 U. S. 299;
Bankers Pocahontas Coal Co. v. Burnet, 287 U. S. 308.
Compare Helvering v. Elbe Oil Land Co., 303 U. S. 372,
375. A share in the net profits derived from deVelopment
and operationi on the contrary, does not entitle the holder
of such interest to a depletion allowance even though continued production is essential to the realization of such
profits. Helvering v. O'Donnell, 303 U. S. 370; Helvering v. Elbe Oil Co., 303 U. S. 372. Similarly, the holder
of a favorable contract to purchase wet gas at the mouth
of the well is denied a depletion allowance on the difference between the contract price and the fair market value.
Helvering v. Bankline Oil Co., 303 U. S. 362. Such an
interest has been characterized by us as a "mere economic advantage derived from production, through a contractual relation to the owner." Helvering v. Bankline
Oil Co., supra, at 367.
Thomas v. Perkins, 301 U. S. 655, relied upon by petitioners, presented the issue whether the right to oil pay-

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of ihe Court.

310 U. S.

ments-that is, the right to a specified sum of money,
payable out of a specified percentage of -the oil, or the
proceeds received from the sale of such oil, if, as and when
produced-should be treated for tax purposes like the
right to oil royalties or like the right to cash payments
upon a sale. In that case, the assignment of lease provided for payments in oil only without the reservation of
a royalty interest. The question was whether the assignees' gross income should include moneys paid to the
assignors by purchasers of the oil. 'We stated (p. 659):
"The granting clause in the assignment would be sufficient,
if standing alone, to transfer all the oil to the assignee.
It does not specifically except or exclude any part of the
oil. But it- is qualified by other parts of the instrument.
The provisions for payment to assignors in oil only, the
absence of any obligation of the assignee to pay in oil or in
money, and the failure of assignors to-take any security by
way of lien or otherwise unmistakably show that they intended to 'withhold from the operation of the grant onefourth of the oil to be produced and saved up to an amount
sufficient when sold to yield $395,000." Under these circumstances, the moneys -eceived by the assignors from the
sale of the oil were deemed not to -be income to the assignees-, See also Palmerv. Bender, 287 U. S. 551.
The holder of an oil payment right, as an original proposition, might be regarded as having no capital investment
in the oil and gas in place. The value of the right, even
though dependent upon the extent of the oil reserves, is
fixed at the moment of creation and does not vary directly
with the severance of the mineral from the soil. In this
sense it resembles the right to cash payments more closely
than the right to royalty payments. Yet it does depend
upon the production of oil, ordinarily can be realized upon
only over a period of years, and permits of a simple and

ANDERSON v. HELVERING.
404

Opinion of the Court.

convenient allocation between lessor and lessee of both
the gross incomederived from production and the allowance for depletion. Compare Burnet v. Harmel, 287 U. S.
103, 106-107. Accordingly, this Court in Thomas v. Perkins decided that the provision in the lease for payments
solely out of oil production should be regarded as a reservation from the granting clause of an amount of oil sufficient to make the agreed payments, and should be given
the same tax consequences as a provision for oil royalties.
The decision did not turn upon the particular instrument
involved, or upon the formalities of the conveyancer's art,
but rested upon the practical consequences of the provision for payments of that type. See Palmerv. Bender, 287
U. S. 551, 555-557; Burnet v. Harmel, 287 U. S. 103, 111.
The Government maintains that the present case is distinguishable from Thoma v. Perkins for the reason that
the basis for decision there was that ownership of sufficient oil to make the payments had not been conveyed
to the assignee but remained in the assignor. It asserts
that the terms of the contract and the instruments of conveyance here negative any intention on the part of the
parties to withhold from the operation of the grant an
amount of oil equal to the oil payments. The following
factors, among others, are relied upon as supporting this
contention: (1) the contract contains no qualifying language reserving from the grant any interest in the oil and
gas in place; (2) the deferred payments of one hundred
ten thousand dollars were payable in cash and not directly
in oil; (3) the deferred payments drew interest until paid;
(4) Oklahoma Company had a first lien and claim against
one-half of the oil and gas production and fee interest;
(5) petitioner Prichard had the right to sell the fee interest covered by the contract and discharge the deferred
payments out of the proceeds of such sale rather than out
of the proceeds of the oil and gas production.

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

Several of the distinctions urged upon us by the Government are without -substance. The economic consequences of the transaction. are not materially affected by
the circumstance that the provision for oil payments is not
phrased in terms of a reservation from the conveyance to
Oklahoma Company of an interest in the oil and gas in
place. And the fact that the payments to Oklahoma Company are in cash rather than directly in oil is of no moment
in determining the issues presented for decision. Compare, however, Genera,Utilities Co.v. Helvering,296 U. S.
200. Similarly, the retention of a lien, if it were construed
as a lien only upon the oil and gas production, and nothing more,' would not make Oklahoma Company any the
less dependent upon such production for payment of the
amounts reserved.
The reservation of an interest in the fee, in addition to
the interest in the oil production, however, materially
affects the transaction. Oklahoma Company is not dependent entirely upon the production of oil for the deferred payments;' they may be derived from sales of the
fee title to the land conveyed. It is clear that payments
derived from such sales would not be subject to an allowance for depletion of the oil reserves, for no.oil would
thereby have been severed from the ground; an allowance for depletion upon the proceeds of such a sale would
result, contrary to the purpose of Congress, in adouble
deduction-first, to Oklahoma Company; second, to the
vendee-owner upon the production of oil. Hetvering v.
Twin Bell Oil ,Syndicate, 293 U. S. 312, 321. We are of
opinion. that the reservation of this additional type of
security for the deferred payments serves to distinguish
'The lien here appears to cover both the oil and gas production
and the fee interest from which the deferred payments were to be
derived.

ANDERSON v. HIELVERING.
404

Opinion of the Court.

this case from Thomas v. Perkins. It is similar to the
reservation in a lease of oil payment rights together with
a personaguarantee by the lessee that such payments
shall at all -events equal the specified sum. In either
case, it is true, some of the payments received may come
directly out of the oil produced. But our decision in
Thomas v. Perkins does not require that payments reserved to the transferor of oil properties shall for tax
purposes be treated distributively, and not as a whole,
depending upon- the source from which each dollar is
derived. An extension of that decision to cover the case
at bar would create additional, and in our opinion unnecessary, difficulties to the allocation for income tax
purposes of such ,payments and of the allowance for
depletion between transferor and transferee. In the interests of a workable rule, Thomas V. Perkins must not
be extended beyond the situation in- which, as a matter
of substance, without regard to formalities of conveyancing, the reserved payments are to be derived solely from
the production of oil and gas. The deferred payments
reserved by Oklahoma Company, accordingly, must be
treated as payments received upon a; sale to petitioners,
not as income derived from the-consumption of its capital investment in the reserves through severance of oil
and gas.
Petitioners, as purchasers and owners of the properties,
are therefore taxable upon the gross proceeds derived
from the oil production, notwithstanding the arrangement to pay over such proceeds to Oklahoma Company.
See Helvering v. Clifford, 309 U. S. 331; Reinecke v.
Smith, 289 U. S. 172, 177; Old Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 279 U. S. 716.

Affirmed.

