534

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Statement of the Case,

310 U. S.

UNITED STATESoET AL. v. AMERICAN TRUCKING
- ASSOCIATIONS. INC. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 713. Argued April 26, 1940.--Decided May 27, 1940.
1. The power of the Interstate Commerce Commission under the
Motor Carrier Act, 1935, § 204 (a), to establish reasonable requirements with respect tolthe qualifications and maximum hou'rs of
service of employees of motor carriers, is confined to those employees whose duties affect safety of operation. Pp. 546, 553.
2. When acceptance of the literal meaning of words in a statute leads
to results which are absurd or futile or plainly at variance with the
policy of the legislation, the legislative purpose will be followed.
P. 543.
3. Even though, superficially, the meaning of statutory words appears
plain, aids to their interpretation may be resorted to in pursuit of
the purpose. P. 543.
4. To accept literally the word "employee" in § 204 (a) of the Motor
Carrier Act, would place upon the Interstate Commerce Commission the function of regulating the qualifications of large numbers of employees whose duties do not affect safety of operation,
contrary to the settled practice of Congress, evinced in other Acts,
with respect to regulation of hours and qualifications of transportation employees, and contrary to the policy of most of the States, as
shown by Acts in force when the federal Act was passed. P. 544.
5. Indication of any intention of Congress, by § 204 (a), to grant the
Interstate Commerce Commission other than the custorpary power
to secure safety, is absent from the legislative history of the Motor
Carrier Act. P. 546.
6. The construction of § 204 (a) by the Interstate Commerce Commission and by the Wage and Hour Division of the Department
of Labor, as relating solely to safety of operation, is of great weight.
P. 549.
31 F. Supp. 35, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges commanding the Interstate Commerce Commission
to set aside an order by which it declined, for want of juris-

U. S. v. AMER. TRUCKING ASS'NS.
534

Argument for Appellants.

diction, to determine qualifications and maximum hours
of service for all employees of contract and motor carriers
subject to the Motor Carrier Act, and commanding it to
take jurisdiction and proceed with such determination.
The suit was brought against the United States and the
Commission, under § 205 (h) of the Act, by the abovenamed Trucking Associations and five common carriers
by motor. The Administrator of the Wage and Hour
Division of the Department of Labor intervened on the
side of the defense.
Mr. Thomas E. Harris, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs.
Daniel W. Knowlton, Nelson Thomas, GeorgeA. McNulty,
David A. Pine,Elmer B. Collins, and Frank Coleman were
on the brief, for appellants.
One of the primary purposes of the Act was the promotion and enhancement of safety of operation of all motor
vehicles operated by motor carriers engaged in interstate
and foreign commerce. It was solely to this end that Congress empowered the Interstate Commerce Commission
to prescribe qualifications and maximum hours of service
for employees of motor carriers.
The intent is shown by the legislative history of § 204
(a) (1) and (2), and is further revealed by analysis of
other provisions of the Act." These point to "safety of
operation" as the sole Congressional purpose. Federal
statutes regulating hours of service in other fields of transportation, and state motor carrier statutes, in the light of
which the meaning of the Act must be sought, indicate
a legislative poligy directed toward the end of "safety of
operation." Finally, the fact that the regulatory power
was conferred by the Act upon an agency expert in transportation matters alone, unattended by the legislative
standards traditionally guiding the regulation of hours of

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Appellees.

310 U. S.

work, suppolts the view that Congress intended to limit
the Commission's power to those employees *hose activities affect safety of operation.
The purposes and the legislative history of the Fair
Labor Standards Act afford additional support for the
view that § 204 (a) (1) and (2) of the Act is restricted
to those employees engaged in activities affecting safety
of operation. The exemption provided by § 13 (b) (1)
of the Fair Labor Standards Act with respect to those
.employees as to .whom the Interstate Commerce Commission has power to prescribe qualifications and maximum
hours of service was enacted upon the assumption that
the Commission's power was limited to "safety" employees.
Employees of motor carriers whose duties do not anect
safety of operation are engaged in pursuits similar to those
followed by millions of other employees within the scope
of the Fair Labor Standards Act, and, consequently, more
properly fall within the scope of that statute than of the
Motor Carrier Act.
Mr. I. Ninian Beall, with whom Mr. Albert F. Beasley
was on the brief, for appellees.
The Act contains a broad declaration of policy, and- a
comprehensive plan for the regulation of common and contract carriers by motor vehicle in interstate commerce.
Section 202 declares the Congressional policy and confers
jurisdiction upon the Commission. It declares a policy
to include the fostering of sound economic conditions, the
promotion of economical and efficient service, and the prevention of unfair or destructive competitive practices; and
it vests in the.Interstate Commerce Commission jurisdiction to regulate transportation by motor vehicle, the procurement thereof and the provision of facilities therefor.
The Comiission is authorized, § 204, to "establish
reasonable requirements" for (1) continuous and adequate
service, (2) transportation of baggage and express, (3)

U. S. v. AMER. TRUCKING ASS'NS.
534

537

Argument for Appellees.

uniform systems of accounts, records and reports, (4) preservation of records, (5) qualifications and maximum hours
-of service of employees, and (6) safety of operations and
equipment.
It is significant that the term "employees" is not limited,
and that the only limitation upon the authorized require- ments is that they be "reasonable." Thus the terms of
§ 204 (a) (1) and (2) apply with respect to all employees
of common and contract carriers by motor vehicle; and,
as no "reasonable requirement" could ever cause a harsh,
oppressive or absurd result, there is no reason to construe
the section to mean anything else.
The legislative history of the Act and.related acts discloses a clear Congressional intention that the Commission
shall regulate hours of service and qualifications for all
purposes within the declaration of policy and legislativestandards set forth in § 204, and that the Commission's
jurisdiction shall be exclusive.
The nature of interstate transportation business makes
it necessary that one administrative agency have power
to regulate qualification and maximum hours of service for
all business purposes, and the Commission is the only
agency charged by Congress with the duty of executing its
transportation policy.
There can be no divided jurisdiction with respect to
the qualifications and hours of service of employees in their
relations to any phase of interstate transportation by motor
vehicle. But if the Fair Labor Standards Act applies, then
state statutes or municipal ordinances more restrictive in
terms are made effective. This would lead to an unconstitutional result, because authority would be delegated to
States without any standards or policy declared.
Where the language is plain, there is no room for construction. United States v. Missouri Pacific R. Co., 278
U. S. 269.
No limitations are either expressed or implied.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
I Opinion of the Court.
MR.

JusTICE REED

310 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.,
This appeal requires determinationi of the power of the
Interstate Commerce Commission under the Motor Carrier Act, 1935, to establish reasonable requirements with
respect to the qualifications and maximum hours of service of employees of motor carriers, other than employees
whose duties. affect safety of operation.
After detailed consideration, the Motor Carrier Act,
1935, was passed? It followed generally the suggestion
of form made by the Federal Coordinator of Transportation.2 The difficulty and wide scope of the problems
raised by the growth of the motor carrier industry were
obvious. Congress sought, to set out its purpose anid the
range of its action in a declaration of policy which covered
the preservation and fostering of motor transportation in
the public interest, tariffs, the coirdination of motor
carriage with other forms of transportation and coSperation with the several states in their efforts to systematize
tht industry.'
While efficient and economical movement ihi interstate
commerce is obviously a major objective of the Act,4 there
are numerous provisions which make it clear that Congress intended to exercise its powers in the non-transpor149 Stat. 543.
- -S. Doc. No. 152, 73rd Cong., 2d Sess., Regulation of Transportation Agencies, p. 350. See p. 25, for discussion of the preliminary
steps of motor carrier regulation. Hearings on Regulation of Interstate Motor Carriers, H. R. 5262 and H. R. 6016, before the House
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, 74th Cong., 1st
Seas.; Hearings on S. 1629, Senate 'Committee on Interstate Commerce, 74th Cong., 1s Sess.
'§ 202; Maurerv. Hamilton, 309 U. S. 598.
-§§ 202, 216, 217, 218.

U. S. v. A&IER. TRUCKING ASS'NS.
Opinion of the Court.

534

tation phases of motor carrier activity 5 Safety of operation was constantly before the committees and Congress
in their study of the situation.'
The pertinent portions of the section of the Act immediately under discussion read as follows:
"SEc. 204 (a). It shall be the duty of the Commission"(1) To regulate common carriers by motor vehicle as
provided in this part, and to that end the Commission
may establish reasonable requirements with respect to
.continuous and adequate service, transportation of baggage and express, uniform systems of accounts, records,
and reports, preservation of records, qualifications and
maximum hours of service of employees, and safety of
operation and equipment.
"(2) To regulate contract carriers by motor vehicle
as provided in this part, and to that end the Commission
may establish reasonable requirements with' respect to
uniform systems of accounts, records, and reports, preservation of records, qualifications and maximum hours of.
service of employees, and safety of operation and
equipment.
"(3) To establish for private carriers of property by
motor.vehicle, if need therefor is found, reasonable requirements to promote safety of operation, and to that
end prescribe qualifications and maximum hours of
service of employees, and standards of equipment . . !"
Shortly after the approval of the Act, the Commission on
its own motion undertook to and did fix maximum hours
'Services, § 203 (a) (19); brokers, § 203 (a) (18), § 204 (a) (4);
security issues, § 214; insurance, § 215; accounts, records and reports, § 220.
'Maurer v. Ham7lton, supra; Regulation of Transportation Agencies, supra, Highway and Safety Regulations, p. 32; Hearings on S.
1629, supra, pp. 122-123, 184.
1

OCTOBER- TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

of service for "employees whose functions in the operation
of motor vehicles make such regulations desirable because
A few months after this deof safety considerations."
termination, the Fair Labor Standards Act was enacted.8
Section 7 of this act limits the work-week at the normal
rate of pay of all employees subject to its terms and'
§ '18 makes the maximum hours of the Fair Labor
Standards Act subject to further reduction by applicable
federal or state law or municipal ordinances. There were
certain employees excepted, however, from these regulations by § 13 (b). It reads as follows:
"SEc. 13 (b). The provisions of section 7 shall not
apply with respect to (1) any employee with respect to
whom the Interstate Commerce Commission has power
to establish qualifications*and maximum hours of service
pursuant to the provisions of section 204 of the Motor
Carrier Act, 1935; . . ."
This exemption brought sharply into focus the coverage
of employees by Motor Carrier Act, § 204 (a). Clerical,
storage and other non-transportation workers are under
this or the Fair Labor Standards Act, dependent upon
the sweep of the word employee in this act. The Commission again examined the question of its jurisdiction
and in Ex parte No. MC-28' again reached the conclusion
that its power under "section 204 (a) (1) and (2) is
limited to prescribing qualifications and maximum hours
of service for those employees . .. whose activities affect
the safety of operation." It added: "The provisions of
section 202 evince a clear intent of Congress to limit our
jurisdiction 'to regulating the motor-carrier industry as a
part of the transportation system of the nation. To
extend that regulation to features which are not charEx parte No. MC-2, 3 M. C. C. 665, 667.
"52 Stat. 1060.
'13 M. C. C.481,488.

U. S. v. AMER. TRUCKING ASS'NS.
5M

541

O ion of the Court.

acteristic of transportation or inherent in that industry
strikes us as an enlargement of our jurisdiction unwarranted by any express or implied provision in. the act,
which vests in us all the powers we have."
The Wage
and Hour Division of the Department of Labor arrived
at the same result in an interpretation. n
Shortly thereafter appellees, an association of truckmen
and various common carriers-by motor,-filed a petition
with the Commission in the present case-seeking an exercise of the Commission's jurisdiction under § 204 (a) to fix
reasonable requiremefits "with respect to qualifications
and maximum hours of service of all employees of common
and cdntract carriers, except employees whose duties are
reldted to safety of operations; (3) to disregard its report
and order in Ex-parte MC-28." 2 The Commission
reaffirmed its position and denied the petition. The
appellees petitioned a three-judge district court to conipel
the Commission to take jurisdiction and consider the
establishment of qualifications and hours of service of all
employees of common 'and contract carriets by motor
vehicle i The Administrator of the Wage and Hour
Division was permitted t6 intervene.'
The disttict court
reversed the Commission, set aside its order and directed
it to take jurisdiction of the appellees' petition. 31 F.
Supp. 35. A direct appeal to this Court was granted. 5
In the broad domain of social legislation few problems
are enmeshed with the difficulties that surround a de-.
10

13 M. C. C. 481, 489.

'Interpretative Bulletin No. 9, Wage & Hour Manual (1940) 168.
'§
204 (a), (1), (6) and (7) (e); Rules of Practice I. C. C., April
1, 1936, Rule XV.
"§ 205 (h), Motor Carrier Act; Urgent Deficiencies Act, 38 Stat.

220, 28 U. S. C. §§ 47, 47a.
"Cf. Securities & Exchange Comm'n v. U. S. Realty & Improvement Co., ante, p. 434.
" Judicial Code § 23 ; 38 Stat. 208, 219-20; 49 Stat. 543, § 205 (h).

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

termination of what qualifications an employee shall have
and how long his hours of work may be., Upon the
proper adjustment of these factors within an industry and
in relation to competitive activities may well depend the
economic success of the enterprises affected as well as the
employment and efficiency of the workers. The Motor
Carrier Act lays little emphasis upon the clause we are
called upon now to construe, "qualifications and maximum hours of service of employees." None of the words
are defined by the section, 203, devoted to the explanation
of the meaning of the words used in the Act. They are
a part of an elaborate enactment drawn and passed in
an attempt to adjust a new and growing transportation
service to the needs of the public. To find their content,
they must be viewed in their setting.
In the interpretation of statutes, the function of the
courts is easily stated. It is to construe the language so
as to give effect to the intent of Congress."6 There is no
invariable rule for the discovery of that intention. To
take a few words from their context and with them thus
isolated to attempt to determine their meaning, certainly would not contribute greatly to the discovery of
the purpose of the draftsmen of a statute, particularly in
Story, J., in Minor v. Mechanics' Bank, 1 Peters 46, 64: 'But lio
general rule can be laid down upon this subject, further than that
that exposition ought to be adopted in this, as in other cases, which
carries into effect the true intent and object of the legislature in the
enactment.' Pennington v. Coxe, 2 Cranch 33, 59; James v. Milwaukee, 16 Wall. 159, 161'; Atkins v. DisintegratingCo., 18 Wall. 272,
301'; White v. United States, 191 U. S. 545, 551; Ozawa v. United
States, 260 U. S. 178, 194; United States v. Stone & Downer Co.,
274 U. S. 225, 239; .Gulf States Steel Co. v. United States, 287 U. S.
32, 45; Royal Indemnity Co. v. American Bond & M. Co., 289 U. S.
165, 169; Lincoln v. Ricketts, 297 U. S. 373, 376; Foster v. United
States, 303 U. S. 118, 120.

U. S. v. AMER. TRUCKING ASS'NS.
534

Opinion of the Court.

a law drawn to meet many nseds of a major occupa7
tion
There is, of course, no more persuasive evidence of the
purpose of a statute than the words by which the legislature undertook to give expression to its wishes. Often
these words are sufficient in and of themselves to determine the purpose of the legislation. In such cases we
have followed their plain meaning."' When that meaning has led to absurd or futile results, however, this Court
has looked beyond the words to the purpose of the act 9
Frequently, however, even when the plain meaning did
not produce absurd results but merely an unreasonable
one "plainly at variance with the policy of the legislation
as a whole" 20 this Court has followed that purpose, rather
than the literal words.2 When aid to construction of
' Cf. Davies, The Interpretation of Statutes in the Light of their
Policy by the English Courts, 35 Columbia Law Review 519; Radin,
Statutory Interpretation, 43 Harvard Law Review 863; Landis, A
Note on "Statutory Interpretation," 43 Harvard Law Review 886;
R. Powell, Construction of Written Instruments, 14 Indiana Law
Journal 199, 309, 324; Jones, The Plain Meaning Rule, 25 Washington University Law Quarterly' 2.
Taft v. Commissioner, 304 U. S. 351,359; Helvering v. City Bank
Co., 296 U. S. 85, 89; Wilbur v. United States, 284 U. S. 231, 237;
Crooks v. Harrelson, 282 U. S. 55, 60; United States v. Missouri
Pacific R. Co., 278 U. S. 269, 278; Van Camp & Sons v. American
Can Co., 278 U. S. 245, 253; Caminetti v. United States, 242 U. S.
470, 490; Pennsylvania R. Co. v. International Coal Co., 230 U. S.

184, 199.
Armstrong Co. v. Nu-Enamel Corp., 305 U. S. 315, 332; Sorrells
v. United States, 287 U. S. 435, 446; United States v. Ryan, 284
U. S. 167, 176.
' Ozawa v. United States, 260 U. S. 178, 194.
'Helvering v. Morgan's, Inc., 293 U. S. 121, 126; Johnson v.
Southern Pacific Co., 196 U. S. 1, 14; Popovici v. Agler, 280 U. S.
379; Smiley v. Holm, 285 U. S. 355; Williams v. United States, 289
U. S. 553; Maurerv. Hamilton, supra,pp. 612, 615.

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

the meaning of words, as used in the statute, is available,
there certainly can be no "rule of law"-which forbids its
use,.2 however clear the words may appear on "superficial examination." 23 The interpretation of the meaning
of statutes, as applied to justiciable controversies, is exclusively a- judicial function. This duty requires one
body of public servants, the judges, to construe the meaning of what another body, the legislators, has said. Obviously there is danger that the courts' conclusion as to
legislative purpose will be unconsciously influenced by the
judges'-, own views or by factors not considered by the
enacting body. A lively appreciation of the danger is the
best assurance of escape from its threat but hardly justifies an acceptance of a literal interpretation dogma which
withholds from the courts available information for
reaching a correct conclusion' 2' Emphasis should be laid,
too, upon the necessity for appraisal of the purposes as
a whole of Congress in analyzing the meaning of clauses
or sections of general acts. A few words of general connotation appearing in the text of statutes should not be
given, a wide meaning, contrary to a settled policy, "ex25
cepting as a different purpose is plainly shown"
The language here under consideration, .if construed as
appellees contend, gives to the Commission a power of
regulation as to qualifications and hours of employees
quite distinct from the settled practice of Congress. That
policy has been consistent in legislating for such regulation of transportation employees in matters of movement
'Boston Sand & Gravel Co. v. United States, 278 U. S. 41, 48.
• ' Helvering v. New York Trust Co., 292 U. S. 455, 465.

',Cf. Committee on Ministers" Powers Report (Cmd. 4060, 1932),
p. 135.

United States v. Jefferson Electric Co., 291 U. S, 386, 396; United
States v. Arizona, 295 U. S. 174, 188, 191; Keifer & Keifer v. R. F. C.,
306 U. S. 381, 3Q4; Ozawa v. United States, supra.

U. S. v. AMER. TRUCKING ASS'NS.
534

545

Opinion of the Court.

and safety only. The Hours of Service Act imposes
restrictions on the hours of labor of employees "actually
engaged in or connected with the movement of any
train." The Seamen's Act 7 limits employee regulations
under itto members of ships' crews. The Civil Aeronautics.
Authority has authority over hours of service of employees "in the interest of safety." 28 It,is stated by
appellants in their brief with detailed citations, and the
statement is uncontradicted, that at the time of the passage of the Motor Vehicle.Act "forty states had regulatory measures relating to the hours of service of
employees" and every one "applied exclusively to drivers*
or helpers on the vehicles." In the face of this course of
legislation, coupled with the supporting interpretation of
the two administrative agencies concerned with its interpretation, the Interstate Commerce Commission and the
Wage and Hour Division, it cannot be-said thit the word
"employee" as used in § 204 (a) is so clear as to the
workmen it embraces that we would accept its broadest.
meaning. The word, of course, is not a word of art. It
takes color from its surroundings and frequently is carefully defined by the statute where it appears. "
'34 Stat. 1415.
38 -Stat. 1164, 1169, 1170-84.
52 Stat. 1007, § 601 (a) (5). This authority has apparently
been exercised only as to pilots and copilots. Dept. of Commerce,
Bureau of Air Commerce, Civil Air Regulations, No. 61, Scheduled
Airline Rules (Interstate), as amended to May 31, 1938, §§ 61.51861.5185.
"That the word "employees" is'not treated by Congress as a word
of art having a definite meaning is apparent from an examination
of recent legislation. Thus the Social Security Act specifically provides that "The term 'employee' includes an officer of a corporation,"

(42 U. S. C. § 1301 (a) (6)) while the Fair. Labor Standards Act
specifically exempts "any employee employed in a bona fide executive, administrative, professional, or local retailing capacity .... "

546

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

We are especially hesitant to conclude that Congress
intended to grant the Commission other than the customary power to secure safety in view of the absence in the
(29 U. S. C. § 213 (a) (1)). In the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, Congress expressly recognized the variable meaning of
employee even when defined atlength and used only in a single act:
"... . 'employee' (except when used in phrases establishing a different
meaning) means'.. ." (45 U. S. C. § 351 (d)). In a statute permit-

ting heads of departments to settle claims up to $1,000 arising from
the negligence of "employees of the Government," Congress giverecognition to the fact that the term is not on its face all-inclusivc
by providing: "'Employee' shall include enlisted men in the Army
Navy and Marine Corps." (31 U. S. C. §§ 215, 216.) See also thE
varying definitions of "employees" in the following statutes: Railroad Retirement Act, 45 U. S. C.. § 228a (b) (c); Interstate Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C. § 1 (7); Emergency Railroad Transportation
Act, 49 U. S. C. § 251 (f); Communications Act, 47 U. S. C. § 210;
National Labor Relations Act, 29 U. S. C. § 152 (3); Maritime Labor
Relations Act, 46 U. S. C. § 1253 (c); Classification Act of 1923
(Civil Service), 5 U. S. C. § 662; U. S. Employees' Compensation
Act, 5 U. S. C. § 790; Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Cr-mpensation Act, 33 U. S. C. § 902; Boiler Inspection Act, 45 U. Z
§ 22; Railway Labor Act, 45 U. S. C. § 151 (5).
Where the term "employee" has been used in statutes without
particularized definition it has not been treated by the courts as a
word of definite content. See Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S.
514, 520 (consulting engineers performing services for states, municipalities, and water districts held not to be "employees" under statute
exempting "officeis and employees under... any State, ... or any
local subdivision thereof" from the income tax); Wasley v. Hammer,
223 U. S.85 (mineral surveyor, appointed by the surveyor but paid
by private persons, is within prohibition of statute prohibiting "employ&s in the General Land Office" from purchasing public land);
Nushtvn7, C. & t. L. Ry. v. Railway Employees Dept., 93 F. 2d 340
(furloughed railroad workers entitled to priority in rehiring held
"employees" within meaning of Railway Labor Act), discussed in 51
Harv. L. Rev. 1299; Latta v. Lonsdale, 107 F. 585 (attorney not
"employee" within meaning of statute giving "employees" preference
against assets of insolvent corporations); Vane v. Neweombe, 132
U. S. 220 (contractor who built lines for telegraph company not "em-

U. S. v. AMER. TRUCKING ASS'NS.
534

547

Opinion of the Court.

legislative history of the Act of any discussion of the
desirability of giving the Commission- broad and unusual
powers over all employees. The clause in question was
not contained in the bill as introduced ° Nor was it in
the Coordinator's draft. ,It was presented on the Senate
floor as a committee amendiaent following a suggestion

of the Chairman of the LegislaHve Committee of the
Commission, Mr. McManamy."

The committee reports

ploye" within statute giving employees liens against corporate property); Makcomson v. Wappoo MilLs, 86 F. 192 (same); cf. United
States v. Griffith, 55 App. D. C. 123; 2 F. 2d 925 (War Department
clerk receiving disability compensatio. held employee of government
within common law rule of the District of Colfmbia that employee
of a litigant cannot be u member of jury); see also, Hvl'v. Philadelphia & Reading Ry. Co., 252 U. S. 475; Louisi, B. & St. L. R.
Co. v. Wilson, 138 U. S. 501; Campbel v. Commissioner, 87 F. 2d
128; Burnet -v. Jones, 50 F. 2d 14; Burnet v. McDonough, 46 F.
2d 944.
'S. 1629, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.
'S. floe. 152,'73rd Cong:, 2nd Sess., p. 352, § 304 (a) (1).
"See the testimony of Mr. MeManamy in Hearings on S. 1629
before the Senate 'Committee on Interstate Commerce, 74th Cong.,
1st Sess., pp. 122, 123:
"The regulation of the hours of service of bus and truck operators
is far more important from a-safety standpoint than the regulation
of the hours of service of railroad employees because the danger is
greater. ... This could be accomplished by inserting in section
304 (a) (1) and (2), lines 9 and 15, page 8,, following the word
'records' in both lines, the words which appear in S. 394, as follows:
'qualifications and maximum hours of service of employees?."
The clause in question came from § 2 (a) (1) of S. 394,74th Cong.,
1st Seas., a subsection otherwise substantially like the corresponding
subsection in S. 1629.
Senator Wheeler, Chairman, of the Committee on Interstate Commerce and sponsor of the bill, explained the provision on the floor
of the Senate: "1... the committee amended paragraphs (1) and
(2) [of § 204] to confer power on the Commission to establish reasonable requirements with respect to the qualifications and maximum
hours of service of employees of common and contract carriers,

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

and the debates contain no indication that a regulation
of the qualifications and hours of service of all employees
was contemplated; in fact the evidence points the other
way. The Senate Committee's report explained the provisions of § 204 (a) (1), (2) as giving the commission
authority over common and contract carriers similar to
that given over private carriers by § 204 (a) (3).8

The

Chairman of the Senate Committee expressed the same
thought while explaining the provisions on the floor of
the. Senate." When suggesting the addition of the
clause, the Chairman of the Commission's Legislative
Committee said: ". .

it relates to safety." 5 In tht

House the member in charge of the bill characterized the
provisions as tending "greatly to promote careful opera,
tion for safety on the highways," and spoke with assurance of the Commission's ability to "formulate a set of
reasonable rules.. : . including therein maximum laborThis suggestion came to us, I think, from the chairman of the legislative committee of the Interstate Commerce Commission....
"In order to make the highways more safe, and so that common
and-contract carriers may not be unduly prejudiced in their competition with peddler trucks and other private operators of motor
trucks, a provision was added in subparagraph 3 giving the Commission authority to establish similar requirements with respect to the
qualifications and hours of service of the employees of such operators... ." 79 Cong. Rec. 5652.
The report stated: "No reguU'S. Rep. 482, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.
lation is proposed for private carriers except that an amendment
adopted in committee authorizes the Commission to regulate the
'qualifications and maximum hours of service of employees and safety
of operation and. equipment' of private carriers of property by motor
vehicle in the event that the Commission determines there is need
for such regulation. Other amendments' adopted by the committee
confer like authority upon the Commission with respect to common
and contract carriers." Safety of operation and equipment was in
the original bill.
See last paragraph of remarks of Senator Wheeler, note 32 supra.
fHearings, note 32 supra.

U. S. v. AMER. TRUCKING ASS'NS.
534

Opinion of the Court.

hours service on the highway." "8 And in the report of
the House Committee a member set out separate views
criticizing the delegation of discretion to the Commission
and proposing an amendment providing for an eight-hour
day for "any employee engaged in the operation of such
motor vehicle." 87
The Commission and the Wage and Hour Division, as
we have said, have both interpreted § 204 (a) as relating
solely to safety of operation. In any case such interpretations are entitled to great weight. This is peculiarly,
true here where the interpretations involve "contemporaneous contructioi of a statute by the men charged with
the"responsibility of setting its machinery in motion, of
making the parts work efficiently and smoothly while
they are yet untried and new." 8 Furthermore, the
Commission's interpretation gains much persuasiveness
from the fact that it was the Commission which suggested
the provisions' enactment to Congress."
It is important to remember that the Commission has
three times concluded that its authority was limited to
securing safety of operation. The first interpretation was
made on-December 29,1937, when the Commission stated:
" . . . until the Congress shall have given us a more
particular and definite command in the premises, we shall
limit our regulations concerning maximum hours of service
to those employees whose functions in the operation of
motor vehicles make such regulations desirable because of
safety considerations." I This expression was half a year
old when Congress enacted the Fair Labor Standards Act
with the exemption of § 13 (b) (1). Seemingly the
"79 Cong. Rec. 12206.

" H. ML Rep. No. 1645, 74th Cong., 1st hess.
"Norwegian Nitrogem Co. v. United States, 288 U. S. 294, 315.
"Hassett v. Welch, 303 U. S. 303, 310.
' Ex parte No. MC-2, 3 M. C. C. 665, 667.

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

Senate at least was aware of the Commission's investigation of its pqwer§ even before its interpretation was
announced.'
Under the circumstances it is unlikely
indeed that Congress would not have explicitly overruled
the Commission's interpretation had it intended to exempt
others than employees who affected safety from the Labor
Standards Act.
It is contended by appellees that the difference in
language between subsections (1) and (2) and subsection
(3). is indicative of a congressional purpose to restrict the
regulation of employees of private carriers to "safety of
operation" while inserting broader authority in (1) and
(2) for employees of common and contract carriers.
Appellants answer that the difference in language is
explained by the difference in the powers. As (1) and (2)
give powers beyond safety for service, goods, accounts and
records, language limiting those subsections to safety would
be inapt.
Appellees call our attention to certain pending legislation as sustaining their view of the congressional purpose
in enacting the Motor Carrier Act. We do not think it
can be said that the action of the Senate and House of
Representatives on this pending transportation legislation
throws much light on the policy of Congress or the meaning
*attributed by that body to § 204 (a). Aside from the very
pertinent fact that the legislation is still unadopted, the
legislative history up to now points only to a hesitation.
o determine a controversy as to the meaning of the present
Motor Carrier Act, pending a judicial determination. 2

" 81 Cong. Rec. 7875.
The -pending legislation is S. 2009, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., 84 Cong.
Rec. 3509. As to the point here -under. discussion, the report of the
Senate Committee said: "Paragraph (1) of section 34 of the bill is
based on the provisions of subparagraphs (1), (2), and (3) of sectiqn

204 (a) of the Motor Carrier Act. In the original draft, there was
inserted at the beginning of the paragraph the clause 'in order to
promote safety of operations,' thus "maling clear that the Commis-

U. S. v. AMER. TRUCKING ASS'NS.
534

Opinion of the Court.

One amendment made to the then. pending Motor
Carrier Act has relevance to our inquiry. Section 203 (b)
reads as set out in the note below. 3 The words, "except
sion's power to regulate qualifications and maximum hours of service
of employees is confined to those, who have anything to do with
safety of operation. This is a question with respect to which considerable doubt seems to have arisen under the wording of the present
law. Upon the strenuous objectio of the truckers claiming cenflict
between this law and the Fair Labor Standards Act, the bill [i. e.,
the committee amendment] restores the law to the present provisions
of the Motor Carrier Act." S. Rep. No. 433, 76th Cong., 1st Ses.,
p. 24. The bill passed the Senate. The House bill left § 204 (a) (1),
(2) and (3) of the present act unchanged. 84 Cong. Rec. 9459;
H. R. Rep. No." 1217, 76th Cong., 1st Sesi., 84 Cong. Rec. 10125.
While the bills were in conference the Chairman of the Legislative
Committee of the Interstate Commerce Commission sent to the
chairmen of the House and Senate Committees a letter on the House
and Senate bills which suggested that both bills explicitly limit the
Commission's jurisdiction over qualifications and hours of service of
employees to considerations of safety. The letter stated: 'While the
subsection [in the Senate bill] follows the existing language of section 204..., a controversy has arisen in regard .to the meaning of
that language....

This controversy has now- reaQhed the Supreme

Court. We think it may well be determined in this new legislation.
In our judgment, if restrictions on hours of labor for social and economic reasons are to be imposed, this should be done by Congress,
and no duty in that respect should be delegated to the Commission,
which has no experience which particularly fits it for the performance
of such a duty. Our authority over qualifications and hours of service of employees should, therefore, be confined to the needs of iafety
in operation...." On April 26, 1940, the House conferees reported
to the House a compromise bill agreed on by the conference committee which left § 204 (a) (1), (2), and (3) of the Motor Carrier
Act unamended. 86 Cong. Ree. 7847; H. R. Rep. No. 2016, 76th
Cong., 3d Ses. On May 9, 1940, the House because of disagreement
with sections of this bill not here relevant voted to recommit the bill
.to the conference committee. 86 Cong. Ree. 8986.
N
""(b) Nothing in this part, except the provisions of section £04
relative to qualifications and maximum hours of service of employees
and safety of operation or. standards of equipment shall be construed to include (1) motor vehicles employed solely in transporting

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

the provisions of section 204 relative to qualifications and
maximum hours of service of employees and safety of
school children and teachers to or from school; or (2) taxicabs, or
other motor vehicles performing a bona fide taxicab service, having
a capacity of not more than six passengers and not operated on a
-regular route or between fixed termini; or (3) motor.vehicles owned
or operated by or on behalf of hotels and used exclusively for the
transportation of hotel patrons between -hotels and local railroad or
other common carrier stations; or (4) motor vehicles operated, under
authorization, regulation, and control of the Secretary of the Interior, principally for the purpose of transporting persons in and
about the national parks and national monuments; or (4a) motor
vehicles controlled and operated by any farmer, and used in the
'transportation of his agricultural commodities and products thereof,
or in the transportation of supplies to his farm; or (4b) motor
vehicles controlled and operated by a cooperative association, as defined in the Agricultural Marketing Act, approved June 15, 1929, as
amended; or (5) trolley busses operated by electric power- derived
from a fixed overhead wire, furnishing local passenger transportation
similar to stree-railway service; or (6) motor vehicles used exelusively in carrying livestock, fish (including shell fish), or agricultural commodities (not including manufactured products thereof);
or .(7) motor vehicles used exclusively in the distribution of newspapers; nor, unless and to'the extent that the Commission shall from
time. to time find that such application is necessary to- carry out
the policy of Congress enunciated in section 202, shall the provisions
of this part, except the provisions of section 204 relative to qualifications and maximum hours of service of employees and safety of
operatiom or standards of equipment apply to: (8) The transportation of ;assengers or: property ininterstate or foreign commerce
wholly within a municipality or between contiguous municipalities
or within a zone adjacent to and commercially a part of any such
municipality or municipalities, except when such transportation is
under a common control, management, or arrangement for a continuous carriage or shipment to or from a point without such municipality, municipalities, or zone, and provided that the motor carrier
engaged in such transportation of passengers over regular or irregular route or routes in interstate commerc is also lawfully engaged
in the intrastate transportation of passengers over the entire length
of such interstate route or routes in'accordance with the laws of each

U. S. v. AMER. TRUCKING ASS'NS.
534

553

Opinion of the Court.

operation or standards of equipment," italicized in'the
note, were added by amendment in the House after the
passage of S.1629 in the Senate with the addition of the
disputed clause to § 204 (a) (1) and (2)." It is evident
that the exempted vehicles and operators include common, contract and private carriers. It seems equally evident that where these vehicles or operators were common
or contract carriers, it was not intended by Congress to give
the Commission power to regulate the qualifications and
hours of service of employees, other than those concerned
with the safety of operations.
* Our conclusion, in view of the circumstances set out in
this opinion, is that the meaning of employees in § 204
(a) (1) and (2) is limited to those employees whose
activities affect the safety of operation. The Commission
has no jurisdiction to regulate the qualifications or hours
of service of any others. The decree of the district court
is accordingly reversed and it is directed to dismiss the
complaint of the appellees.
Reversed.
The CH.F JUsTIcE, MR.JUSTIcE McREYNoIDS, MR.
JusTICE STONE, and MR.JusTICE ROBERTS are of opinion
that the decree should be affirmed for the reasons stated
in the opinion of the district court, 31 F. Supp. 35.
State having jurisdiction; or (9) the casual, occasional, or reciprocal
transportation of passengers or property in interstate or foreign
commerce for compensation by any person not engaged in transportation by motor vehicle as a regular occupation or business.'
"H. R. Rep. No. 1645; 74th Cong., 1st Sess.

