OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

586

Statement of the Case.

3101U.S.

MINERSVILLE SCHOOL DISTRICT, BOARD OF
EDUCATION OF MINERSVILLE SCHOOL DIS-

TRICT,

ET AL.

V. GOBITIS

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 690. Argued April 25, 1940.-Decided June 3, 1940.
1. A state regulation requiring that pupils in the public schools, on
pain of expulsion, participate in a daily ceremony of saluting the
national flag, whilst reciting in unison a pledge of allegiance to it
-"and to the Republic for which it stands; one Nation indivisible,
with liberty and justice for all"-held withiii the scope of legisla-

tive power, and consistent with the. Fourteenth Amendment, aa
applied to children brought up in, and entertaining, a conscientious
religious belief that such obeisance to the flag is forbidden by the
Bible and that the Bible, as the Word of God, is the supreme
authority. P. 591.
2. Religious c6nvictions do not relieve the individual from obedience

to an otherwise valid general law not aimed at the promotion or
*restriction of religious beliefs. P. 594.
3. So far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, it is within the
province of the legislatures and school authorities of- the several
States to adopt appropriate means to evoke and foster a sentiment
of national unity among the children in the public schools. P. 597.
4. This Court can not exercise censorship over the conviction of legislatures that a.particular program or exercise will best promote in the
minds of children who attend the common schools an attachment to
the institutions of their country, nor overrule the local judgment
against granting exemptions from observdnce of such a program.
P. 598.
108 F. 2d 683, reversed.

309 U. S. 645, to review the affirmance of a
decree (24 F. Supp. 271; opinion, 21 F. Supp. 581) which
perpetually enjoined the above-named 'School District,
the members of its board of education, and its superintendent of public schools, from continuing to enforce an
order expelling from the public schools certain minors
(suing in this case by their father as next friend) and from
CERTORARI,

MINERSVILLE DISTRICT v. GOBITIS.
586

587

Argument for Petitioners.

requiring them to salute the national flag as a condition
to their right to attend.
Mr. Joseph W. Henderson, with whom Messrs. John B.
McGurl, Thomas F. Mount, and George M. Brodhead, Jr.
were on the brief, for petitioners.
The resolution of the School Board requiring pupils to
salute the flag was lawfully adopted, and the expulsionof the children was within its power and authority.
The expulsion of the children did not violate any right
under the Constitution of the United States. Leoles v.
Landers, 802 U. S. 656; Hering v. State Board of Education, 303 U. S. 624; Gabrielliv. Knickerbocker, 306 U. S.
621; Johnson v. Deerfield, 306 U. S. 621; Johnson v. Deerfield, 307 U. S. 650; Leoles v. Landers, 184 Ga. 580; Hering
v. State Board of Education, 118 N. J. L. 566; Gabrielliv.
Knickerbocker, 12 Cal. 2d 85; Johnsonv. Deerfield, 25 F.
Supp. 918; People v. Sandstrom, 279 N. Y. 523; Nicholls
v. Mayor, 7 N. E. 2d 577; Hamiltonv. Regents, 293 U. S.
245; Coale v. Pearson,290 U. S. 597; Reynolds v. United
States,98 U. S. 145; Davisv.Beason, 133 U. S. 333; Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11; Selective Draft Law
Cases,245 U. S. 366; Shapiro v. Lyle, 30 F. 2d 971; United
States v. Macintosh, 283 U. S. 605, 625.
The expulsion of the children did not violate any right
under the Constitution of Pennsylvania. Commonwealth
v. Lesher, 17 S. & R. (Pa.) 155, 160; Wilkes-Barre v. Garabed, 11 Pa. Super. 355, 366; Commonwealth v. Herr, 229
Pa. 132, 141; Stevenson v. Hanyon, 7 Pa. Dist. Rep. 585;
Pittsburghv. Ruffner, 134 Pa. Super. 192, 198; Oaths of
Allegiance in PublicSchools, 25 Pa. Dist. & County Rep. 8.
The refusal of the children to salute the national flag at
school exercises because they believed that to do so would
violate the written law of Almighty God as contained in
the Bible was not founded 6n a religious belief. Davis v.
Beason, 133 U. S. 333, 342.

588

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Respondents.

310 U. S.

The act of saluting the flag has no bearing, on what a
pupil may think of his Creator or what are his relations to
his Creator. Noris a pupil required to exhibit his religious
sentiments in a particular "form of worship" when saluting
the flag, because the ceremony is not, by any stretch of the
imagination, a "form of worship." Like the study of history or civics or the doing of any other act which might
make a pupil more patriotic as well as teach him or her
"loyalty to the State and National Government," the
salute has no religious implications. Nicholls v. Mayor,
7 N. E. 2d 577, 580; Leoles v. Landers, 184 Ga. 580, 587;
Peoples v. Sandstrom, 279 N. Y. 523, 529.
The commandments of Jehovah, as set forth in the Bible,
do not prohibit the saluting of a-national flag but on the
contrary approve of that practice.
The act of saluting the flag is only one of many ways in
which a citizen may evidence his respect for the Government. Every citizen stands at attention, and the men
remove their hats, when the national anthem is played;
yet such action can not be called a religious ceremony.
The same respect is shown the American flag when it
passes in a parade; yet that is not a religious rite.
Though members of Jehovah's Witnesses endeavor to
extend religious implications to a ceremony purely patriotic in design, they do not accord to others the religious
freedom which they demand for themselves, claiming that
there is no limit to which they may go when they think
they, are worshipping God. CantweIl v. Connecticut, 126
Conn. 1; 310 U. S. 296.
The act of saluting the flag does not prevent a pupil, no
matter what his religious belief may be, from acknowledging the spiritual sovereignty of Almighty God by rendering
to God the things which are God's. Hardwick v. Board of
School Trustees, 54 Cal. App. 696, 712.
Messrs. Joseph F. Rutherford and George K. Gardner
argued the cause, and with the former Mr. Hayden Covington was on the brief, for respondents.

MINERSVILLE DISTRICT v. GOBITIS.
586

589

Arguments for Respondents.

The rule compelling respondents to participate in the
ceremony of saluting the flag and the act of its School
Board in expelling them because they refrained, violate
their rights guaranteed by Art. I, ยง 3, of the Constitution
of Pennsylvania and the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States.
The vital question is: Shall the creature man be free
to exercise his conscientious belief in God and his obedience,
to the law of Almighty God, the Creator, or shall the
creature man be compelled to obey the law or rule of the
State, which law of the State, as the creature conscientiously believes, is in direct conflict with the law of
Almighty God?
This Court has repeatedly held that the individual alone
is privileged to determine what he shall or shall not believe.
The law. therefore, does not attempt to settle differences
of creeds and confessions, or to say that any point or doctrine is too absurd to be believed. That rule was laid down
more than one hundred years ago by the Pennsylvania
courts in Schriberv. Rapp, 5 Watts 351, 363.
As early as 1784 a like question was before the House of
Delegates of the State of Virginia. Mr. Jefferson prepared a Bill: "For establishing religious freedom." After
defining religious freedom and reciting "that to suffer
the civil magistrate to intrude his powers into the field
of opinion, and to restrain the profession or propagation
of principles on supposition of their ill tendency, is a
dangerous fallacy which at once destroys all religious liberty," it is declared "that it is time enough for the rightful purposes of civil government for its officers to interfere
when principles break out into overt acts against peace
and good order." See Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S.
145, 162.
Will any court attempt to say thit respondents mistakenly believe what is set forth in the twentieth chapter
of Exodus in the Bible? The belief of respondents is not
based upon conjecture or a myth. Respondents' belief is
based strictly upon the Bible. The minor respondents

590

OCTOBER TERM,- 1939.
Argument for Respondents.

310 U. S.

from their infancy have been taught by their father to
rely upon the Bible.
The saluti ngof the flag of any earthly government by a
person who has covenanted to do the will of God is a
form of religion and constitutes idolatry. The modern-day compulsory flag saluting as a daily ex
ercise or ceremony in the public schools is clearly an
experiment. The nation has existed for more than a century without any such enforced rule. - To expel children
from school and deny them the opportunity of an education because they refuse to violate their conscience, is
wrong and is cruel and unusual punishment. "No.cruel
exkperiment on any living creature shalf be permitted in
any public school of this Commonwealth." 24 Purdon's
Pa.,Stat. Ann. ยง 1554.
"The greatest dangers to liberty lurk in insidious encroachment by men of zeal, well meaning, but without
understanding." , Mr. Justice Brandeis, in Olmstead v.
United States, 277 U. S.479. See Associated Pressv. National Labor Relations Board, 301 U. S. i03, 141.
The rule certainly abridges the privileges of the respbndents and deprives them of liberty and property without
due process of law. Cf. Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268
U. S. 510, 534--535
Petitioners claim that the purpose of saluting the flag
is: to "Instill in the children patriotism and love of country." But why limit that compulsory rule to teachers and
pupils of the public schools? Why not require that same
ceremony in all the schools? Why not apply the same
rule to all officials of the Nation and State, from -the President and the members of Congress down to the very least
and humblest citizen? The general answer would be that
"he enforcement of such a rule is ridiculous and nonsensical.
Chap. 14, "Patriotism of the Flag," Moss,; The Flagof the
United States, Its History and Symbolism, pp. 85-86.

MINERSVILLE DISTRICT v. GOBITIS.
586

591

Opinion of the Court.

By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed on
behalf of the Committee on the Bill of Rights, of the
American Bar Association, consisting of Messrs. Douglas
Arant, Zechariah Chafee, Jr., Grenwille Clark, Osmer C.
Fitt, Lloyd K. Garrison,George I. Haight, Monte M. Lemann, Ross L. Malone, Jr., Burton W. Musser, Joseph A.
Padway, and Charles P. Taft; and by Messrs. George K.
Gardner,Arthur GarfieldHays, Osmond K. Fraenkel, William G. Fennell, Jerome M. Britchey, and Alexander H.
Frey, on behalf of the American Civil Liberties Union,urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
A grave responsibility confronts this Court whenever
in course of litigation it must reconcile the conflicting

claims of liberty and authority. But when the liberty
invoked is liberty of conscience, and the authority is
authority to safeguard the nation's fellowship; judicial
conscience is put to its severest test. Of such a nature
is the present controversy.
Lillian Gobitis, aged twelve, and her brother William,
aged ten, were expelled from the public schools of Minersville, Pennsylvania, for refusing to salute the national
flag as part. of a daily school exercise. The local Board
of Education required both teachers and pupils to participate fil this ceremony. The ceremony is a familiar one.
The right hand is placed on the breast and the following
pledge recited in uiiison: ."I pledge allegiance to my flag,
and to the Republic for which it stands; one nation indivisible, with liberty and justice for all." While the
words are spoken, teachers and pupils extend their right
hands in salute to the flag. The Gobitis family are
affiliated with "Jehovah's Witnesses," for whom the Bible
as the Word of God is the supreme authority. The chil-

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.,
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

dren had been brought up conscientiously to believe that
such a gesture of respect for the flag was forbidden by
command of Scripture.'
The Gobitis children were of an age for which Pennsylvania makes school attendance compulsory. Thus they
were denied a free education, and their parents had to
put them into private schools. To be relieved of the
financial burden thereby entailed, their father, on behalf
of the children and in his own behalf, brought this suit.
He sought to enjoin the authorities from continuing to
exact participation in the flag-salute ceremony as a condition of his children's attendance at the Minersville
school. After trial of the issues, Judge Maris gave relief
in the District Court, 24 F. Supp. 271, on the basis of a
thoughtful opinion at a preliminary stage of the litigation,
21 F. Supp. 581; his decree was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, 108 F. 2d 683. Since this decision ran2
counter to several per curiam dispositions of this Court,
we granted certiorarito give the matter full reconsideration. 309 U. S. 645. By their able submissions, the
Committee on the Bill of Rights of the American Bar
Association and the American Civil Liberties Union, as
friends of the Court, have helped us to our conclusion.
We must decide whether the requirement of participa-.
tion in such a ceremony, exacted from a child who refuses
2 Reliance is especially placed on the following verses from Chapter
20

of Exodus:

"3. Thou shalt have no other gods before me.
"4. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any
likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth
beneath, or that is in the water under the earth:

"5. Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them:.
'Leoles v. Landers,-302 U. S. 656; Hering v. State Board of Education, 303 U. S. 624; Gabrielli v. Knickerbocker, 306 U. S. 621;
Johnson v. Deerfield, 306 U. S. 621; 307 U. S. 650. Compare New
York v. Sandstrom, 279 N. Y. 523; 18 N. E. 2d 840; Nicholls v.
Mayor and School Commfttee of Lynn, 7 N. E. 2d 577 (Mass.).

MINERSVILLE DISTRICT v. GOBITIS.
586

593

Opinion of the Court.

upon sinoere religious grounds, infringes without due
process of law the Eberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Centuries of strife over the erection of particular
dogmas as exclusive or all-comprehending faiths led to
the inclusion of a guarantee for religious freedom in the
Bill of Rights. The First Amendment, and the Fourteenth through its absorption of the First, sought to
guard against repetition of those bitter religious struggles
by prohibiting the establishment of a state religion and by
securing to every sect the free exercise of its faith. So
pervasive is the acceptance of this precious right that its
scope is brought into question, as here, only when the
conscience of individuals collides with the felt necessities
of society.
Certainly the affirmative pursuit of one's convictions
about the ultimate mystery of the universe and man's
relation to it is placed beyond the reach of law. Government may not interfere with organized or individual
expression of belief or disbelief. Propagation of beliefor even of disbelief-in the supernatural is protected,
whether in church or chapel, mosque or synagogue, tabernacle or meeting-house. Likewise the Constitution assures generous immunity to the individual from imposition of penalties for offending, in the course of his own
religious activities, the religious views of others, be they
a minority or those who are dominant in government.
Cantwell v. Connecticut, ante, p. 296.
But the manifold character of man's relations may
bring his conception of religious duty into conflict with
the secular interests of his fellow-men. When does the
constitutional guarantee compel exemption from doing
what society thinks necessary for the promotion of some
great common end, or from a penalty for conduct which
appears dangerous to the general good? To state the

594

OCTOBER TERM,. 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

problem is to recall the truth that no single principle can
answer all of life's complexities. The right ta freedom
of religious belief, however dissident and however obnoxious to the cherished beliefs of others--even of a majority-is itself the denial of an absolute., But to affirm
that the freedom to follow conscience has itself "nolimits
in the life of a society would deny that very plurality of
principles which, as a matter of history, underlies protection of religious toleration. Compare Mr. Justice
Holmes in Hudson Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S.
349, 355. Our present task, then, as so often the case
with courts, is to reconcile two rights in order to prevent
either from destroying the other. But, because in safeguarding conscience we are dealing with interests so
subtle and so dear, every possible leeway should be given
to the claims of religious faith.
In the judicial enforcement of religious freedom we are
concerned with a historic concept. See Mr. Justice Cardozo in Hamilton v. Regents, 293 U. S. at 265. The
religious liberty which the Constitution protects has
never excluded legislation of general scope not directed
against doctrinal loyalties of particular sects. Judicial
nullification of legislation cannot be justified by attributing to the framers of the Bill of Rights views for which
there is no historic warrant. Conscientious scruples have
not; inthe course of the long struggle for religious toleration, relieved the individual from obedience to a general
law not aimed at the-promotion or restriction of religious
beliefs.3 The mere possession of religious convictions
'Compare II Writings of Thomas Jefferson (Ford ed.) p. 102; 3
Letters and Other Writings of James Madison, pp. 274, 307-308; 1
Rhode Island Colonial Records, pp. 378-80; 2 Id. pp. 5-6; Wiener,
Roger Williams' Contribution to Modem Thought., 28 Rhode Island
Historical Society Collections, No. 1; Ernst, The Political Thought
of Roger Williams, chap. VII;' W. K. Jordan, The Development of
Religious -Toleration in England, passim. See Commonwealth v.
Herr, 229"Pa. 132; 7&A. 6,R โข

MINERSVILLE DISTRICT v. GOBITIS.
586

595

Opinion of the Court.

which contradict the relevant concerns of a political society does not relieve the citizen from the discharge of

political responsibilities. The necessity for this adjustment has again and again been recognized. In a number
of situations the exertion of political authority has been

sustained, while basic 6onsiderations of religious freedom
have been left inviolate. Reynolds v. United States, 98
U. S. 145; Davis v. Beason, 133 U. S. 333; Selective Draft
Law Cases, 245 U. S. 366; Hamiltonv. Regents, 293 U. S.
245. In all these cases the general laws in question, 'upheld in their application to those who refused obedience
from religious conviction, were manifestations of specific
powers of government deemed by the legislature essential to secure and maintain that orderly, tranquil, and
free society without which religious toleration itself is
unattainable. Nor does the freedom of speech assured
by Due Process move in a more absolute circle of immunity than that enjoyed by religious freedom. Even
if it were assumed that freedom of speech goes beyond
the historic concept of full opportunity to utter and to
disseminate views, however heretical or offensive to dominant opinion, and includes freedom from conveying what
may be deemed an implied but rejected'affirmation, the
question remains whether school children, like the Gobitis
children, must be excused from conduct required of all
the other children in the promotion of national cohesion.
We are dealing with an interest inferior to none in the
hierarchy of legal values. National unity is the basis of
national security. To deny the legislature the right to
select appropriate means for its attainment presents, a
totally different order of problem from that of the propriety of subordinating the possible ugliness of littered
streets to the free expression of opinion through distribution of handbills. Compare Schneider v. State, 308 U. S.
147.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

Situations like -the present are phases of the profoundest problem confronting a democracy-the problem
which Lincoln cast in memorable dilemma: "Must a government of necessity be too strong for the liberties of its
people, or too weak to maintain its own existence?" No
mere textual reading or logical talisman can solve the
dilemma. And when the issue demands judicial determination, it is not the personal notion of judges of what wise
adjustment requires which must prevail.
. Unlike the instances we have cited, the case before us
is not concerned With an exertion of legislative power for
the promotion of some specific need or interest of secular
society-the protection of the family, the promotion of
health, the common defense, the raising of public revenues"to defray the cost of government. But all these
specific activities of government presuppose the existence
of an organized political society. The ultimate foundation of a free society is the binding tie of cohesive sentiment. Such a sentiment is fostered by all those agencies
of the mind and spirit which may serve to gather up the
traditions of a people, transmit them from generation to
generation, and thereby create that continuity of a
treasured common life which constitutes a civilization.
"We live by symbols." The flag is the symbol of our
national unity, transcending all internal differences, however -large, within the framework of the Constitution.
This Court has had occasion to say that ". . . the flag is
the symbol of the Nation's power, the emblem of freedom
in its truest, best sense. . . . it signifies government resting on the consent of the governed; liberty regulated by
law; the protection of the weak against the strong; security against the exercise of arbitrary power; and absolute safety for free institutions against foreign aggression." Halter v. Nebraska, 205 U. S. 34, 43. And see

MINERSVILLE DISTRICT v. GOBITIS.
586

597

Opinion of the Court.

United States v. Gettysburg Electric Ry. Co., 160 U. S.
6"68.4
The case before us must be viewed as though the legislature of Pennsylvania had itself formally directed the
flag-salute for the children of Minersville; had made no
exemption for children whose parents were possessed of
conscientious scruples like those of the Gobitis family;
and had indicated its belief in the desirable ends to be
secured by having its public school children share a common experience at those periods of deyelopment when
their minds are supposedly receptive to its assimilation,
by an exercise appropriate in time and place and setting,
and one designed to evoke in them appreciation of the
nation's hopes and dreams, its sufferings and sacrifices.
The precise issue, then, for us to decide is whether the
legislatures of the various states and the authorities in
a thousand counties and school districts of this country
are barred from determining the appropriateness of various means to evoke that unifying sentiment without
which there can ultimately be no liberties, civil or religious.' To stigmatize legislative judgment in providing
for this universal gesture of respect for the symbol of our
national life in the setting of the common school as a
lawless inroad on that freedom of conscience which the
Constitution protects, would amount to no less than the
pronouncement of pedagogical and psychological dogma
in a field where courts possess no marked and certainly no
4 For

the origin and history of the American flag, see 8 Journals of
the Continental Congress, p. 464; 22 Id., pp. 338-40; Annals of
Congress, 15th Cong., 1st Sess., Vol. 1, pp. 566 et seq.; Id., Vol. 2, pp.
1458 et seq.
'Compare Balfour, Introduction to Bagehot's English Constitution, p. XXII; Santayana, Character and Opinion in the United
States, pp. 110-11.

598

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

controlling competence. The influences which help toward a common feeling for the common country are manifold. Some may seem harsh and others no doubt are
foolish. Surely, however, the end is legitimate. And the
effective means for its attainment are still so uncertain
and so unauthenticated by science as to preclude us from
putting the widely prevalent belief in flag-saluting beyond
the pale of legislative power. It mocks reason and denies
our whole history to find in the allowance of a requirement to salute our flag on fitting occasions the seeds of
sanction for obeisance to a leader.
The wisdom of training children in patriotic impulses
by those compulsions which necessarily pervade so much
of the educational process is not for our independent judgment. Even were we convinced of the folly of such a
measure, such belief would be no proof of its unconstitutionality. For ourselves, we might be tempted to say that
the deepest patriotism is best engendered by giving unfettered scope to the most crochety beliefs. Perhaps it is
best, even from the standpoint of those interests which
ordinances like the-one under review seek to promote, to
give to the least popular sect leave from conformities like
those here in issue. But the courtroom is not the arena
for debating. issues of educational policy. It is not our
province to choose among competing considerations in the
subtle process of securing effective loyalty to the traditional ideals of democracy, while respecting at the same
time individual idiosyncracies among a people so diversified in racial origins and religious allegiances. So to hold
would in effect make us the school board for the country.
That authority has not been given to this Court, nor should
we assume it.
We are dealing here with the formative period in the development of citizenship. Great diversity of psychological and ethical opinion exists among us concerning the
best way to train children for their place in society. Be-

MINERSVILLE DISTRICT v. qOBITIS.
586

599

Opinion of the Court.

cause of these differences and because of reluctance to permit a single, iron-cast system of education to be imposed
upon a nation compounded of so many strains, we have
held that, even though public education is one of our most
cherished democratic institutions, the Bill of Rights bars
a state from compelling all children to attend the public
schools. Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510. But
it is a very different thing for this Court to exercise censorship over the conviction of legislatures that a particular
program or exercise will best promote in the minds of
children who attend the common schools an attachment
to the institutions of their country.
What the school authorities are really asserting is the
right to awaken in the child's mind considerations as to
the significance of the flag contrary to those implanted by
the parent. In such an attempt the state is normally at a
disadvantage in competing with the parent's authority, so
long-and this is the vital aspect of religious toleration-as
parents are unmolested in their right to counteract by their
own persuasiveness the wisdom and rightness of those loyalties which the state's educational system is seeking to promote. Except where the transgression of constitutional
liberty is too plain for argument, personal freedom is
best maintained-so long as the remedial channels of the
democratic process remain open and unobstructed 6 -when
it is ingrained in a people's habits and not enforced against
popular policy by the coercion of adjudicated law. That
the flag-salute is an allowable portion of a school program
for those who do not invoke conscientious scruples is surely
not debatable. But for us to insist that, though the ceremony may be required, exceptional immunity must be

'In cases like Fiske v. Kansas, 274 U. S. 380; De Jonge v. Oregon,
299 U. S. 353; Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444; Hague v. C. L 0., 307
U. S. 496, and Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, the Court was concerned with restrictions cutting off appropriate means through which,
in a free society, the processes of popular rule may effectively
function.

600

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

given to dissidents, is to m aintain that there is no basis for
a.legislative judgment that such an exemption might introduce elements of difficulty into the school discipline, might

cast doubts in the minds of the other children which would
themselves weaken the effect of the exercise.
The preciousness of the family relation, the authority

and independence which give dignity to parenthood, indeed the enjoyment of all freedom, presuppose the kind

of ordered society which is summarized by our flag. A
society which is dedicated to the preservation of these
ultimate values of civilization may in self-protection
utilize the educational process for inculcating those almost unconscious feelings which bind men together in a
comprehending loyalty, whatever may be their lesser
differences and difficulties. That is to say, the process
may be utilized so long as men's right to believe as they
please, to win others to their way of belief, and their right
to assemble in their chosen places of worship for the
devotional ceremonies of their faith, are all fully respected.
Judicial review, itself a limitation on popular government, is a fundamental part of our constitutional scheme.
But to the legislature no less than to courts is committed
the guardianship of deeply-cherished liberties. See
Alissouri, K. & T. Ry. Co. v. May, 194 U. S. 267, 270.
Where all the effective means of inducing political
changes are left free from interference, education in the
abandonment of foolish legislation is itself a training in
liberty. To fight out the wise use of legislative authority
in the forum of public opinion and before legislative assemblies rather than to transfer such a contest to the
judicial arena, serves to vindicate the self-confidence of a
free people.R
Reversed.
It is to be noted that the Congress has not entered the field of
legislation here under consideration.

MINERSVILLE DISTRICT v. GOBITIS.
586

601

Sro,-E, J., dissenting.

MR. JusTCE MCREYNOLDS

concurs in the result.

MR. JUSTICE STONE, dissenting:
I think the judgment below should be affirmed.
Two youths, now fifteen and sixteen years of age, are
by the judgment of this Court held liable to expulsion
from the public schools and to denial of all publicly supported educational privileges because of their refusal to
yield to the compulsion of a. law which commands their
participation in a school ceremony contrary to their religious convictions. They and their father are citizens
and have not .exhibited by any action or statement of
opinion, any disloyalty to the Government of the United
States. They are ready and willing to obey all its laws
which do not conflict with what they sincerely believe
to be the higher commandments of God. It is not doubted
tiat these convictions are religious, that they are genuine,
or that the refusal to yield to the compulsion of the law
is in good faith and with all sincerity. It would be a
denial of their faith as well as the teachings of most
religions to say that children of their age could not have
religious convictions.
The law which is thus sustained is unique in the history of Anglo-American legislation. It does more than
suppress freedom of speech and more than prohibit the
free exercise of religion, which concededly are forbidden
by the First Amendment and are violations of the liberty
guaranteed by the Fourteenth. For by this law the state
seeks to coerce these children to express a sentiment
which, as they interpret it, they do not entertain, and
which violates their deepest religious convictions. It is
not denied that such compulsion is a prohibited infringement of personal liberty, freedom of speech and religion,
guaranteed by the Bill of Rights, except in so far as it
may be justified and supported as a proper exercise of
the state's power over public education. Since the state.

602

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
SmNE, J., dissenting.

310 U. S.

in competition with parents, may through teaching in
the public schools indoctrinate the minds of the young,
it is said that in aid of its undertaking to inspire loyalty
and devotion to constituted authority and the flag which,
symbolizes it, it may coerce the pupil to make affirmation contrary to his belief and in violation of his religious
faith. And, finally, it is said that since the Minersville
School Board and others are of the opinion that the
country will be better served by conformity than by the
observance of religious liberty which -the Constitution
prescribes, the courts are not-free to pass judgment on
the Board's choice.
Concededly the constitutional guaranties of personal
liberty are not always absolutes. Government has a right
to survive and powers conferred upon it are not necessarily set at naught by the express prohibitions of the Bill
of Rights. It may make war and raise armies. To that
end it may compel citizens to give military service, Selective Draft Law Cases, 245 U. S. 366, and subject them to
military training despite their religious objections.
Hamilton v. Regents, 293 U. S. 245. It may suppress
religious practices dangerous to morals, and presumably
those also which are inimical to public safety, health and
good order. Davis v. Beason, 133 -U. S. 333. But it is a
long step, and one which I am unable to take, to the
position that government may, as a supposed educational
measure and as a means of disciplining the young,compel public affirmations which violate their religious
conscience.
The very fact that we have constitutional guaranties
of .civil liberties and the specificity of their command
where freedom of speech .and of religion are concerned
require some accommodation of the powers-which government normally . exercises, when no question of civil
liberty is involved, to the constitutional demand that
those liberties be protected against the action of govern-

MINERSVILLE DISTRICT v. GOBITIS.
586

603

STN , J., dissenting.

ment itself. The state concededly has power to require
and control the education of its citizens, but it cannot by
a general law compelling attendance at public schools
preclude attendance at a private school adequate in its
instruction, where the parent seeks to secure for the child
the benefits of religious instruction not provided by the
public school. Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S.-510.
And only recently we have held that the state's authority
to control its public streets by generally applicable regulations is not an absolute to which free speech must yield,
and cannot be nmade, the medium of its suppression,
Hague v. Committee for Industrial Organization, 307
U. S. 496, 514, et seq., any more than can its authority
to penalize littering of the streets by a general law be
used to suppress the distribution of handbills as a means
of communicating ideas to their recipients. Schneider v.
State, 308 U. S. 147.
In these cases it was pointed out that where there are
competing demands of the interests of government and.
of liberty under the Constitution, and where the performance of governmental functions is brought into conflict
with specific constitutional restrictions, there must, when
that is possible, be reasonable accommodation between
them so as to preserve the essentials of both and that
it is the function of courts to deternire whether such
accommodation is reasonably possible. In the cases just
mentioned the Court was of opinion that there were
ways enough to secure the legitimate state end without
infringing the asserted immunity, or that the inconvenience caused by the inability to secure that end satisfactorily through other means, did not outweigh freedom
of speech or religion. So here, even if we believe that
such compulsions will contribute to national unity, there
are other ways to teach loyalty and patriotism which are
the sources of national unity, than by compelling the
pupil to affirm that .which he does not believe and by

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
SToNE, J., dissenting.

310 U. f

commanding a form of affirmance which violates his re,
ligious convictions. Without recourse to such compulsion the state is free to compel attendance at school and
require teaching by instruction and study of all in our
history and in the structure and organization of our government, including the guaranties of civil liberty which
tend to inspire patriotism and love of country. I cannot
say that government here is deprived of any interest or
function which it is entitled to maintain at the expense
of the protection of civil liberties by requiring it to resort
to the alternatives which do not coerce an affirmation of
belief.
The guaranties of civil liberty are but guaranties of
freedom of the human mind and spirit and of reasonable
freedom and opportunity to express them. They presuppose the right of the individual to hold such opinions
as he will and to give them reasonably free expression,
and his freedom, and that of the state as well, to teach
and persuade others by the communication of ideas.
The very essence of the liberty which they guaranty is
the freedom of the individual from compulsion as to what
he shall think and what he shall say, at least where the
compulsion is to bear false witness to his religion. If
these -guaranties are to have any meaning they must, I
think, be deemed to withhold from the state any authority" to compel belief or the expression of it where that
expression violates religious convictions, whatever may
be the legislative view of the desirability of such compulsion.
History teaches us that there have been but few infringements of personal liberty by the state which have
not been justified, as they are here, in the name of
righteousness and the public good, and few which have
not been directed, as they are now, at politically helpless
minorities. The framers were not unaware that under
the system which they created most governmental cur-

MINERSVILIE DISTRICT v. GOBITIS.
586

605

SroNz, J., dissenting.

tailments of personal liberty would have the support of a
legislative judgment that the public interest would be
better served by its curtailment than by its constitutional
protection. I cannot conceive that in prescribing, as
limitations upon the powers of government, the freedom
of the mind and spirit secured by the explicit guaranties
of freedom of speech and religion, they intended or rightly
could have left any latitude for a legislative judgment
that the compulsory expression of belief which violates
religious convictions would better serve the public interest than their protection. The Constitution may well
elicit expressions of loyalty to it and to the government
which it created, but it does not command such expressions or otherwise give any indication that compulsory
expressions of loyalty play any such part in our scheme of
government as to override the constitutional protection
of freedom of speech and religion. And while such expressions of loyalty, when voluntarily given, may promote
national unity, it is quite another matter to say that their
compulsory expression by children in violation of their
own and their parents' religious convictions can be regarded as playing so important a part in our national
unity as to leave school boards free to exact it despite
the constitutional guarantee of freedom of religion. The
very terms of the Bill of Rights preclude, it seems to me,
any reconciliation of such compulsions with the constitutional guaranties by a legislative declaration that they are
more'important to the public welfare than the Bill of
Rights.
But even if this view be rejected and it is considered
that there is some scope for the determination by legislatures whether the citizen shall be compelled to give public
expression of such sentiments contrary to his religion, I
am not persuaded that we should refrain from passing
upon the legislative judgment "as long as the remedial

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
STONn, J., dissenting.

310 U. S.

channels of the democratic process remain open and unobstructed." This seems to me no less than the surrender
of the constitutional protection of the liberty of small
minorities to the popular will. We have previously
pointed to the importance of a searching judicial inquiry
into the legislative judgment in situations where prejudice against discrete and insular minorities may tend to
curtail the operation of those political processes ordinarily
to be relied on to protect minorities. See United States
v. Carolene,ProductsCo., 304 U. S. 144,152, note 4. And
until now we have not hesitated similarly to scrutinize
legislation restricting the civil liberty of racial and religious minorities although no political process was
affected. Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390; Pierce v.
Society of Sisters, supra; Farrington v. Tokushige, 273
U. S. 284. Here we have such a small minority entertaining in good faith a religious belief, which is such a departure from the usual course of human conduct, that
most persons are disposed to. regard it with little toleration or concern. In such circumstances careful scrutiny
of legislative efforts to secure conformity of belief and
opinion by a compulsory affirmation" of the desired belief,
is especially needful if civil, rights are to receive any
protection. Tested by this standard, I am not prepared
to say thit the right'of this small and helpless minority,
including children having a strong religious conviction,
whether they understand its nature or not, to refrain
from an expression obnoxious to their religion, is to be
overborne by the interest of the state in maintaining
discipline in the schools.
The Constitution expresses more than the conviction
of the people that democratic processes must be preserved
at all costs. It is also an expression of faith and a command that freedom of mind and spirit must be preserved,
which government must obey, if it is to adhere to -that
justice and moderation ,without which no free govern-

MINERSVILLE DISTRICT v. GOBITIS.
6SoNE,

607

3., dissenting.

ment can exist. For this reasofl it would seem that legislation which operates to repress the religious freedom of
small minorities, which is admittedly within the scope
of the protection of the Bill of Rights, must at least be
subject to the same judicial scrutiny as legislation which
we have recently held to infringe the constitutional
liberty of religious and racial minorities.
With such scrutiny I cannot say that the inconveniences which may attend some sensible adjustment of
school discipline in order that the religious convictions of
these children may be spared, presents a problem so
momentous or pressing as to outweigh the freedom from
compulsory violation of religious faith which has been
thought worthy of constitutional protection.

