434

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

310 U. S.

the 1912 Act from its operation except in so far as it
affords a manner or method of procedure when the Commission resorts, to eminent domain.
Reversed.
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION v.
UNITED STATES REALTY & IMPROVEMENT

CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 796. Argued April 29, 30, 1940.-Decided May 27, 1940.
1. A bankruptcy court has jurisdiction to make orders not subject
to collateral attack in a proceeding for an "arrangement" with
unsecured creditors brought by a debtor corporation under Chapter XI of the Chandler Act, although the financial and corporate
setup of the debtor are such that adequate protection and relief
can not be obtained under the limitations of that chapter but
require a reorganization under Chapter X with the special procedure
and safeguards which that chapter affords. 'P. 446.
Chapter X, devised as a substitute for the equity receivership,
is 'Specially adapted to the reorganization of large corporations
whose securities are held by the public, and sets up a special procedure for the protection of .widely scattered security holders and
the public through the intervention of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, while Chapter XI, which is peculiarly adapted to the
speedy composition- of debits of small individual and corporate
businesses, omits the machinery for reorganization set up by Chapter X, and contains no provision for participation by the Commission
in a proceeding under Chapter XI.
2. Chapters X and XI of the Chandler Act, in providing"that a'plau
or arrangement, to warrant 'its confirmation, shall be "fair and
equitable," use those words with the meaning attached to them,
as words of art, in cases of reorganization through equity receiverships or under former § 77B, viz., that, in any plan of corporate
reorganization, creditors are entitled to priority over stockholders
to the full extent of their debts, and that any scaling down of

SECURITIES COMM'N v. U. S. REALTY CO.
434

435

Syllabus.

creditors' claims, without some fair compensating. advantage to
them which is prior to the rights of stockholders, is inadmissible.
Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Boyd, 228 U. S. 482. P. 452.
3. Since Chapter XI admits of an "arrangement" only with respect
to unsecured creditors, without alteration of the relations of any
other class of security holders, and- since it contemplates (as
required by § 366) that the arrangement shall be fair and equitable within the meaning of the Boyd case, it is evident that it gives
no appropriate scope for an arrangement of an unsecured indebtedness held by hundreds of creditors of a corporation having thousands
of stockholders. P. 452.
'The hope of securing an arrangement which is fair and equitable
and in the best interests of unsecured creditors, without some readjustment of the rights of stockholders such as may be had under
Chapter X, but is precluded by Chapter XI, is at best but negligible
and, if accomplished at all, must be without the aids to the protection
of creditors and the public interest, including participation by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, which are provided by Chapter X, and which would seem to be indispensable to a just determination whether the plan is fair and equitable.
4. Whether confirmation of an arrangement proposed in this case
would be "for the best interest of the creditors," as § 366 (2) requires, depends-upon whether the stockholders should be eliminated
or the creditors receive some substitute compensation and whether
that compensation wou!d be fair and equitable. It is for the best
interest of the creditors that these questions be answered in a
Chapter X proceeding. P. 453.
5. Chapter XI has special scope in the case of small businesses, where
there are no public or private interests'involved requiring protection
by the procedure and remedies of Chapter X. P. 454.
6. Under § 146 (2) a petition may not. be filed under Chapter X unless
the judge is satisfied that "adequate relief" would not be obtainable
under Chapter XI. The adequacy of'the relief Under Chapter XI
must be appraised in comparison with that to be had under
Chapter X, and in the light of its effect on all the public and private
interests concerned including those of the debtor. P. 454.
7. If the case is such that adequate relief can not be obtained under
Chapter XI, the court, exercising its equity power, should dismiss
the proceeding under that chapter, leaving the petitioner free to
proceed under Chapter X, which affords every remedy obtainable
under Chapter XI, and moie. Pp. 455, 456.

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Petitioner.

310 U.S.

8. A bankruptcy court is a court of equity, § 2, 11 U. S. C. § 11, and is
guided by equitable doctrines and principles except in so far as they
are inconsistent with the Act; and an Act dealing with bankruptcy
should be read in harmony with the existing system of equity jurisprudence, of which it is a part. Pp. 455, 457.
9. A court of equity may, in the exercise of its discretionary jurisdiction; condition relief on fulfillment of a' requirement which will
safeguard the public interest. It may withhold relief altogether,
in the.ptiblic interest, when private right will not suffer. P. 455.
10. What the court can decide under the express terms of § 146 of
Chapter X as to the adequacy of the relief afforded by Chapter XI,
it cahx decide in the exercise of its equity powers under Chapter XI
for the purpose of safeguarding the public and private interests
involved and protecting its own jurisdiction from misuse. P. 456.
11. It was the duty of the District Court in this case, in the exercise
of a sound discretion, to dismiss the petition under Chapter XI,
leaving the debtor to proceed under Chapter X. P. 456.
12. The Securities and Exchange Commission, in view of the duties
and functions laid upon it in the public interest by Chapter X of
the Chandler Act, may be permitted, under Rule 24 of the Rules
of Civil-Procedure and-paragraph 37 of the General Orders in
Bdnkruptcy, to intervene in a Chapter XI proceeding and move its
dismissal upon the ground that resort to that chapter rather than
Chapter X interferes with performance of the Commission's duties
and violates the policy ot the Act. P. 458.
13. Upon a denial of such motion to dismiss, the Commission is entitled to appeal, under §§ 24 and 25 of the Bankruptcy Act. P. 460.
108 F. 2d 794, reversed.
CERTioRAnI, 309 U. S. 649, to review a judgment which
reversed an order of the District Court permitting the
above-named Commission to intervene in a proceeding

under Chapter XI of the Bankruptcy Act, and which
dismissed the Commission's appeal from the denial of its
motions that an approval of the debtor's petition be
vacated and that the petition be dismissed, etc.

Solicitor GeneralBiddle, with whom Messrs. RichardH.
Demuth, Chester T. Lane, Martin Riger,Samuel H. Levy,
Raoul Berger, and Homer Kripke were on the brief, for

petitioner.

SECURITIES COMM'N v. U. S. REALTY CO.
434

437

Argument for Petitioner.

The District Court had no jurisdiction to entertain
respondent's petition under Chapter XI because Chapter X is the exclusive method by which corporations with
securities outstanding in the hands of the public may
reorganize under the Bankruptcy Act. Although literal
construction of the definition provisions of the Act would
permit a publicly held corporation to file under Chapter XI, the structure of the Act as a whole, as well as its
legislative history, shows unmistakably that such literal
construction does not reflect the meaning of Congress.
The rule is firmly established that the real purpose and
intent of the legislative body must prevail over the literal
import of the words used.
Chapters X and XI embody strikingly different schemes
of reorganization. Chapter X provides detailed safeguards designed to protect the interests of public investors;
Chapter XI provides merely a rudimentary system of
creditor control designed for the corporation which has
only trade and commercial creditors. The contrast
between the procedures prescribed makes it plain that
Congress intended that all public security holders should
have the protection afforded by Chapter X and that
Chapter XI should be confined to corporations with only
trade and commercial creditors.
This conclusion is confirmed by analysis of the present
record which strikingly shows the inadequacy of the procedure prescribed by Chapter XI for a corporation in
which there is a public investor interest. It is also confirmed by the legislative history of the statute which
demonstrates that in enacting Chapters X and XI Congress
had clearly in mind the distinction between a closely held
corporation and a corporation with securities outstanding
in the hands of the public.
The District Court should have dismissed the petition
because no "fair and equitable" plan can be consummated
in the proceeding and no arrangement can be. proposed

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
310 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

in good faith. Chapter XI provides only for the modification of, unsecured obligaiions; under this Chapter,
therefore, alteration of the guaranty on the Trinity
certificates must be accomplished without altering the
Debtor's -large stock issue and probably also without
modifying its debentures. Yet the Trinity certificate
holders .have a claim against the Debtor which must be
stockholders receive anything and
satisfied before
which ranks on a par with that of the debenture holders,
since the security behind the debentures is valueless. No
plan which modified the Debtor's obligation on the guaranty but left the stockholders and .perhaps also the
debenture holders unaffected would be "fair and equitable"
as required by § 366 (3) ; yet such a plan is the only one
which could be consummated under Chapter XI. A disclosure that a plan cannot be consummated in the proceeding goes to the jurisdiction and requires dismissal.
Moreover, under the circumstances presented in this
case, no arrangementproposed can meet the requirement
of "good faith" contained in § 366 (5). And, even apart
from the "good faith" provision, the District Court should
have dismissed the proceeding on the ground that the
procedure prescribed by Chapter X was more appropriate.
The holding of the court below that the District Court
should not have permitted the Commission t6 intervene
in the' proceeding is clearly erroneous. In'effect, the
decision establishes the principle that, in the absence of
express statutory provision, a governmental agency may
never intervene to protect the public from evasion or
emasculation of the statute under which the agency functions, unless the agency has some- property or pecuniary
right affected by the litigation. This drastic restriction
upon the power of the Government to protect the public
interest finds no support in precedent or policy.
-the

I

SECURITIES COMM'N v. U. S. REALTY CO.
434

439

Argument for Respondent.

The interest of the Commission in the present proceeding is twofold. First, as the agency designated by
Congress to participate in Chapter X proceedings on
behalf of public investors, it has a very real interest in
assuring that such investors are not deprived of the safeguards contained in Chapter X through improper exercise
of jurisdiction under Chapter XI. Second, it has an
equally great interest in protecting its own functions
under Chapter X from impairment through improper
resort to Chapter XI by corporations which should file
under Chapter X. The applicable decisions of this Court
clerly establish that this interest is sufficient to support
the District Court's order permitting the Commission to
intervene. Coleman v. Miller, 307 U. S.433, 442, 466;
Pennsylvaniav. Williams, 294 U. S. 176; The Exchange,
7 Cranch 116; Percy Summer Club v. Astle, 110 F. 486,
489; In re4Debs, 158 U. S.564; Hopkins Savings Assn.
v. Cleary,296 U. S.315, 339-341; New York v. New Jersey,
256 U. S. 296, 307-308; UnitedStates Trust Co.v. Chicago
Terminal T. R. Co., 188 F. 292, 296. CL State v. Superior
Court for Walla Walla County, 159 Wash. 335; 293 P. 986;
State v. Superior Court of Marion County, 202 Ind. 589;
177 N. E. 322. There can be no question that it was
.properly permitted to intervene under clause (b) (2) of
Rule 24.
If the District Court properly exercised its discretion in
permitting the Commission to intervene, the Commission
had the right to appeal from the orders denying its
motion. An interest sufficient to warrant intervention is
plainly sufficient to warrant appeal, after intervention,
from a decision adverse to that interest.
The restriction imposed by § 208 does not apply.
Messrs. Joseph M. Hartfield and Henry M. Marx, with
whom Mr. Charles TV. Dibbell was on the brief, for
respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Respondent.

310 U. S.

The Commission contends that a corporation with
securities outstanding in the hands of the public can not
proceed under Chapter XI. It is submitted that this conclusion is clearly erroneous, inasmuch as any corporation
which can become a bankrupt may by the express terms of
the statute institute a proceeding under Chapter XI, which
contains no requirement that the debtor's securities shall
not be publicly held. The statute is entirely reasonable
and is so clear and unambiguous that the courts are powerless to enlarge or modify its meaning under the guise of
"construction." Under the provisions of the Act the
Debtor could not file a petition under Chapter'X unless
it could affirmatively show that it could not obtain relief
under Chapter XI-(§§ 130, 146, 147).
Even if this were a proper case for construction, neither
in the testimony before the Congressional Committees
which considered the Chandler Bill, nor in the Committee
Reports, nor in the factual background and historical
deriiration of Chapter XI, nor in the structure of the
Bankruptcy Act, can there be found evidence of any intent
of Congress to prohibit corporations with publicly held
securities from proceeding under Chapter XI. In fact the
evidence is to the contrary.
The fairness, equity and feasibility of any arrangement
are not properly in issue at this time, inasmuch as the District Court has not yet confirmed or refused to confirm any
arrangement.
It is clear that this Debtor can propose an arrangement
which meets the requirements of Chapter XI. The
arrangement originally filed, which is to so great an extent
the object of the Commission's objections, has been
amended in substantial respects and is no longer even
before the District Court.
Northern Pacific R. Co. v. Boyd, 228 U. S. 482, and
Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Products Co., 308 U. S. 106,

SECURITIES COMM'N v. U. S. REALTY CO.
434

441

Opinion of the Court.

do not apply to a proceeding instituted under. Chapter XI
for a settlement of unsecured debts. The use ol the
phrase "fair and equitable" in both Chapters X ad XI
is not significant, since the same words may have different
meanings in different parts of the same statute. That
phrase is employed in all the debtor relief chapters of
the Bankruptcy Act, and it is obvious that it can not have
the meaning ascribed to it in the Boyd and Los Angeles
cases in chapters such as Chapter XIII, which applies
to compositions and extensions of indebtedness of wage
earners. However, even if such doctrine were held to be
applicable, it is clear that'an arrangement which is fair
and equitable thereunder can be proposed by the Debtor
in this proceeding.
The Securities and Exchange Commission has no authority to intervene in a proceeding under Chapter XI
even with the permission of the court.
The Commission has no status to appeal from the orders
of the District Court. Chapter XI does not authorize such
an appeal and Chapter X expressly denies it in an analogous situation. Furthermore, the Commission is not a
proper party to appeal within §§ 24 and 25 of the Bankruptcy Act or within the general principles requiring an
appellant to have a real interest in the proceeding.
MR. JUsTIcE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
The questions are whether respondent's petition for
an arrangement of its unsecured debts under Chapter XI
of the Bankruptcy Act should be dismissed because the
relief obtainable under that -chapter is inadequate, and
whether. the Securities and Exchange Commission is
entitled to raise and litigate that question by intervention
and appeal.
Respondent, a New Jersey corporation doing business
in New York as owner of and manager of real estate invest-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

-

310 U. S.

ments, has outstanding 900,000 shares of capital stock
without par value, which are listed on the New York Stock
Exchange and are stated by respondent to be held by some
seven thousand stockholders. It has liabilities of $5,051,4=16, of which only $74,916 is current. This indebtedness
includes two series of publicly held debentures
aggregating $2,339,000, maturing January 1,1944, which
are secured by a pledge of corporate stock of little value
and a $3,000,000 note, due August 12, 1939, which is
secured by a first mortgage owned by respondent. In
addition respondent is also liable as a guayantor of payment, principal and interest, and sinking fund of mortgage
certificates in the sum of $3,710,500, issued by its wholly
owned subsidiary Trinity Building Corporation of New
York and now in the hands of some nine hundred holders.
These certificates have been in default for failure to pay
interest, principal and sinking fund since January 1, 1939.
They are secured by mortgage of real estate and buildings
which are Trinity's only substantial assets. Each year
since 1936 respondent has suffered a net loss in the conduct
of its business and is now unable to pay its debts as they
mature."
Before maturity of the first mortgage certificates, respondent and the Trinity Company joined in proposing
to certificate holders a plan for the modification of the
'The alleged value of debtor's assets is $7,076,515. Of this
$5,200,000 is represented by the stock of the subsidiary and a first
mortgage on a building owned by the subsidiary which is pledged
to'secure respondent's $3,000,000 note. Current assets are less than
S400,000. The balance of the assets consists chiefly- of mortgages,
loans and other securities in the amount of $555,655, an investment
of -84 77 -,3 0. in securities of an independent company, unimproved
real estate valued at $290;000; and a note receivable from a subsidiary of $137,500. As against the total nominal value of these
assets of $7,076,515, the debtor's total liabilities, including its liability
on the matured debenture certificates, are $9,261,916.

SECURITIES OOMM'N v. U. S. REALTY CO.
434

-

443

Opinion of the Court.

obligation of the certificates, leaving unaffected the other
indebtedness and stock of respondent. By this plan the
maturity of the certificates was to be extended, the rate
of interest reduced, and the terms of the provisions for
payment of the sinking fund modified. Respondent's
guarantee as to the extension and interest was to be
modified accordingly, and its guarantee of sinking fund
payments was to be eliminated. The plan was to be
consummated by resort to two proceedings, one to be
instituted by respondent under Chapter XI of the
Bankruptcy Act, 11 U. S. C. Supp. V, § 701 et seq., 52
Stat. 840, 905, for an "arrangement" modifying its guarantee of the certificates in the manner already indicated.
The other was to be instituted on behalf of Trinity in the
New York state courts under the Burchill Act, New York
Real Property Law, §§ 121-123, to secure the appropriate
modification of Trinity's primary obligation on the certificates. The plan provided that the modification of
tespondent's guarantee by the Chapter XI proceeding
should stand, even though the state court should refuse
to confirm the proposed modification of Trinity's obligation on the certificates. When the absmnt to the plan of
holders of certificates amounting to approximately 55 per
cent in number and amount, had been obtained, the
present proceeding was begun May 31, 1939, by the filing
in tl~e district court for Southern New York of a petition
praying that the proposed "arrangement" affecting the
unsecured indebtedness of respondent be approved.
The district court found that the petition was properly
filed 2under § 322 of Chapter XI of the Bankruptcy Act,
'The record shows 'that counsel for

.one

of the committees of

bondholders interposed objections to the Chapter XI proceedings
and proposed to file an involuntary petition under Chapter X. The
district judge expressed the opinion that a Chapter"X proceeding was
preferable, but when the debtor agreed to make an immediate interest

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

and directed that respondent debtor continue in possession of the property. On July 18, 1939, the district court
entered an order permitting the Securities and Exchange
Commission to intervene. The motions of the Commission to vacate the order approving the debtor's petition, to dismiss the proceeding under Chapter XI, and
to deny confirmation of the proposed arrangement, were
denied by the district court and the cause was referred
to a referee for further proceedings. On appeal by the
Commission from these several orders and on appeal of
the respondent from the order of .the district court permitting the Commission to intervene, the appeals being,
consolidated and heard together, the Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit reversed the order permitting the
Commission to intervene and dismissed the appeal of the
Commission. 108 F. 2d 794. We granted certiorari, 309
U. S. 649, the questions raised being of public importance
in the administration of the Bankruptcy Act.
The Court of. Appeals held that. the proceeding to
secure approval of the arrangement, embodied in the plan
proposed by respondent, was properly brought under
Chapter XI of the Bankruptcy Act; that the intervention
by the Commission was not authorized by any provision
of the Bankruptcy Act and that it had no interest affected
by the proceeding under that chapter entitling it to inter-.
vene under the applicable rules controlling intervention
in the. federal courts; and that consequently - it was not
aggrieved by the order appealed from and so was not
entitled to maintain its appeal.
The Commission argues that Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act -prescribes the exclusive procedure for reorganization of a large corporation having its securities
payment of one and one-half per cent. for the purpose of dissuading
the creditors from filing the Chapter X petition, and when the objecting creditors accepted the offer and dropped the involuntary petition,'
the judge felt compelled to continue the Chapter XI proceeding.

SECURITIES COMM'N v. U. S. REALTY CO.
434

445

Opinion of the Court.

outstanding in the hands of the public such as respondent,' and that consequently the district court was without
jurisdiction to entertain respondent's petition under
Chapter XI; that in any case the district court should
have dismissed the petition because in the circumstances
no fair and equitable arrangement affecting respondent's
unsecured creditors alone such as is prescribed by Chapter
XI, can be consummated in a proceeding under that
chapter. Such being the status of the cause under Chap-,
ter XI, the Commission insists that it was properly allowed to intervene in order to protect the interest of the
public specially committed to its' guardianship by the provisions of Chapter X, and to forestall the impairment
of its own functions under that chapter by an unauthorized or improper resort by respondent to Chapter XI.
and that for the same reason the Commission was entitled
to appeal from the order of the district court refusing
to dismiss the Chapter XI proceedings.
To this it is answered, as the Court of Appeals held,
that respondent, although a large corporation with its
securities widely distributed in the hands of the public,'
is nevertheless within the literal terms of Chapter XI,
which unqualifiedly authorizes a debtor to petition under
that chapter for an arrangement with respect to its unsecured indebtedness, and that the district court was
accordingly bound to entertain the petition, however desirable it might be that the reorganization should proceed3By § 126 a corporation or three or more creditors may file a
petition under Chapter X.
By § 130 every petition shall state:
"(1) that the corporation is insolvent or unable to pay its debts
as they mature;
"(2) the applicable jurisdictional facts requisite under this chapter;
'(7) the specific facts showing the need for , elief under this
chapter and why adequate relief cannot be obtained under chapter
XI of this Act; ..."

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

under Chapter X,'whose procedure is better adapted in
cases like the present to protect the public interest and
to secure a fair and equitable reorganization, than are
the provisions of Chapter XI.
Chapter XI provides a summary procedure by which
a debtor may secure judicial confirmation of an "arrangement" of his unsecured debts. The debtor, who is defihed
as a "person who could become a bankrupt under § 4 of
the Act,'? § 306 (3), may, according to §§ 4 and 1 (23),
be any person (which includes -corporations), except a
municipal, railroad, insurance or banking corporation or
a building and loan association. The debtor' files his
.original voluntary. petition for an arrangement in such
a court as would have jurisdiction of a petition in ordinary
bankruptcyI and must file with the petition the proposed"
arrangement. §§ 322, 323. An arrangement is defined
as any plan of a debtor for the settlement, satisfaction, or
extension of the time of payment of his unsecured debts
upon any terms." § 306 (1). The unsecured debtorq
may be treated generally pr in classes. § 356, 357.
It is evident that the language of the sections to which
we have referred in terms confers on the court jurisdiction
of a petition for an arrajngement;' which the present petition is, filed by a debtor, which the respondent is, in t1he
technical sense that it confers on the court power to make
orders in the cause which are not open to collateral attack.
See Pennsylvaniav. Williams, 294 U. S. 176.,.180, et seq.
But the Commission. points out that a proceeding begun
under Chapter X may be begun and continued under that
chapter only f the petition is filed in good faith, §§ 130 (7),
143, 146 (2), 221, and that under § 146 (2) "a petition
shall be deemed not to be filed in good faith if . . ".
(2) adequate relief would be obtainable by a debtor's peti'§ 311 confers on the cburt in which the petition is filed exclusive
jurisdiction of the debtor and his property, where not inconsistent
with the piovisions of, the chapter.

SECURITIES COMM'N v. U. S. REALTY CO.
434

447

Opinion of the Court.

tion under the provisions of chapter XrP; that Chapter X,
devised as a substitute for the equity receivership, is
specially adapted to the reorganization of large corporations whose securities are held by the public, and sets
up a special procedure for the protection of widely scattered security holders and the public through the intervention of the Commission, while Chapter XI, which is
peculiarly adapted to the speedy composition of debts of
small individual and corporate businesses, omits the
machinery for reorganization set up by Chapter X, and
contains no provision for participation by the Commission
in a proceeding under Chapter XI.' From this it argues
that the district court was without jurisdiction to entertain
respondent's petition' under Chapter XI, and the readjustment of its indebtedness through judicial action can
properly proceed 'only with the safeguards, public and
private, afforded by Chapter X.
While we do not doubt that in general, as will presently
appear more in detail, the two chapters were 'specifically
devised to afford different procedures, the one adapted
'to the reorganization of corporations with complicated
debt structures and many stockholdeis, the other to composition of debts of small individual business and corporations with few stockholders, we flhd in neither chapter
any definition or classification which would enable us to
say that a corporation is small or large, its security holders few or many, or that its securities are 'qeld by the
'public," so as to place the corporation exclusively within
the jurisdiction of the court under one chapter rather
than the other. But granting the jurisdiction of the
court, the question remains of the propriety, in the circumstances, of its order retaining jurisdiction, and of the
extent of its duty to go forward with the proceeding
under Chapter XI in the face of the contention that
Chapter X alone affords a remedy adequately protecting
the public and private interests involved. The answer

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

turns not on the court's statutory jurisdiction to entertain
a proceeding under Chapter XI, but on considerations
growing out of the public policy ofthe Act found both
'in its legislative history and in an analysis of. its terms,
and of the authority of the court clothed with equity
powers and sitting in bankruptcy to give effect to that
policy through its power to withhold relief under Chapter XI when relief is available under Chapter X, which
is adequate and more consonant with that policy.
Before the enactment of § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act,
48 Stat. 911, 912, the bankruptcy mechanism was designed
for the final liquidation of the bankrupt's estatie, except
to the extent only that a compromise with creditors was
authorized by §§ 12, 74. Bankruptcy afforded no facilities for corporation reorganization, which, in consequence,
could be effected only through resort to the equity receivership with its customary mortgage foreclosures and its
attendant paraphernalia of creditors' and security holders' committees, and of rival reorganization plans. Lack
of knowledge and control by the court of- the conditions
attending formulation of reorganization plans, the inadequate protection of widely scattered security holders, the..
frequent adoption of plans which favored management at
the expense of other interests, and which .afforded the
corporation only temporary respite from financial collapse, so often characteristic of reorganizations.in equity
receiverships, led to the enactment of 77B.5
The creation of the Securities and Exchange Commission, specially charged by various statutes with tht protection of the interests of the investing public,' and
5

Se S. Doe. No. 65, 72d Cong., 1st Sess., p. 90; H. Rept. No. 1049,

75th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2.
"The basic assumption of Chapter X and other acts administered
by the Commission is that. the investing public 'dissociated from control or active participation in the management, needs impartial and
expert administrative assistance in the ascertainment of facts, in the

SECURITIES COMW'N v. U. S. REALTY CO.
434

449

Opinion of the Court.

observed inadequacies of § 77B,' led to its revision and
enactment in changed form as Chapter X, so As to provide
for a larger measure of control by the court over security holders' committees and the formulation of reorganization plans and to secure impartial and expert administrative assistance in corporate reorganizations

through participation of the Commission. Except where
the liabilities are less than $250,000, Chapter X requires
the appointment of a disinterested trustee, §§ 156-158,
and a thorough examination and study by the trustee of

the debtor's financial problems and management, § 167
(3) (5). The trustee is required to report the result of
his study, to send the report to all security holders with
detection of fraud, and in the understanding of complex financial
problems. See, e. g., Securities Act of 1933, 48 Stat. 74, 15 U. S. C.
.§§ 77a-77aa; Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 881, 15
U. S. C. § 78; Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, 49 Stat.
838, 15 U. S. C. Supp. V, § 79; Trust Indenture Act of 1939, 53 Stat.
1149, 15 U. S. C. Supp. V, §§ 77aaa-77bbbb' The revision of 77B resulted from the investigation of a Special
Senate Committee to Investigate Receivership and Bankruptcy Proceedings, S. Doc. No. 268, 74th Cong., 2d Sess.; and from a study by
the Securities and Exchange Commission of the degree of protection
afforded to the investing public in reorganizations. Report on the
Study and Investigation of the Work, Activities, Personnel and Functions of Protective and Reorganization Committees (1936-1939)
See Hearings before the Committee on the Judiciary on H. R. 8046,
75th Cong., 1st Sess.; Hearings before a Subcommittee of the'&mate
Committee on the Judiciary on H. R. 8046, 75th Cohg., 2d Sess.;
H. Rept. No. 1409, 75th Cofig., 1st Sess.; S. Rept. No. 1916, 75th
Cong., 3d Sess. See Dodd, The Securities and Exch inge Commission's Reform Program for Bankruptcy Reorganizations, 38 Col. L.
Rev. 223; Swaine, "Democratization" of Corporate Reorganizations,
38 Col. L. Rev. 256; Heuston, Corporate Reorganizations under the
Chandler Act, 38 Col. L. Rev. 1199; Teton, Reorganization Revised,
48 Yale L. J. 573; Gerdes, Corporate Reorganizations--Changes
Effected by Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act, 52 Harv. L. Rev. 1;
Rostow and Cutler, Competing Systems of Reorganization, Chapters
X and XI of the Bankruptcy Act, 48 Yale L. J. 1334.

450

OCTOBERTERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

3101U. S.

notice to .submit to him proposals for a plan of reorganization, § 167 (5) (6). He then formulates a plan
or reports the reasons why a plan cannot be formulated,
§ 169. By § 176 consent to a plan in advance of its
initial approval by the judge is void unless procured with
his consent. A large measure of control is given to the
court over the reorganization and of committees of
security holders and their compensation, §§ 163, 165, 209,
212, 241-243.
If the judge finds the plan presented worthy of consideration he may Tefer it to the Commission for report
and must do so where the liabilities of the debtor, as in
the. present case, exceed $3,000,000, § 172. When the
plan is submitted to creditors after approval by the judge
it is accompanied by the report of the Commission and
the opinion of the judge approving the plan, § 175. The
Commission with the approval of the court is authorized
to participate generally in the proceedings: as a. party
and it is its duty to do so upon re.quest 'of the
court, § 208.
No comparable safeguards are found in Chapter X.s
Every phase of the procedure bearing on the administration of the estate and the development of the arrangement is under the control of the, debtor. The process of
formulating an arrangement and the solicitation of consent of creditors, sacrifices to speed and economy every
safeguard, in the interest of thoroughness and disinterest'Chapter XI was sponsored by the -National Association of Credit
Men and other groups of -creditors' representatives expert -in bankruptcy. Hearings before the House Committee on the'Judiciary on
H. R. 6439 (reinfroduced and passed in 1938 as H. R. 8046), 75th
Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 31, 35. Their business of representing trade
creditors in small and middle-sized commercial failures is an important
factor in the background of the chapter. See, Montgomery, Counsel
for the Association of Credit Men, on Arrangements, 13 J. N. A. Ref.
Bankruptcy, 17.

SECURITIES COMM'N v. U. S. REALTY CO.
434

451

Opinion of !he Court.

edness, provided in Chapter X. The debtor is generally
permitted to stay in possession and operate the business
under the supervision of the court, § 342, and a trustee
is provided for only in the case where a trustee in bankruptcy has previously been appointed and is in possession,
or if "necessary" a receiver' may be appointed. § 332.
The debtor proposes the arrangement, §§ 306 (1), 323,
357, and the only opportunity afforded the creditors in
respect to the proposed plan is to accept or reject it as
-submitted by the-debtor. Acceptances may be solicited
either before or after filing the petition and always before approval of the 151an by the court, § 336 (4). Section 361 authorizes confirmation of an arrangement-when
accepted by all the creditors affected by it, "if the court
is satisfied that-the arrangement and the acceptance are
in good faith," and § 362 permits confirmation if only'a
majority of the creditors affected accept. The arrangement is to be confirmed if the court is satisfied that "(1)
the provisions of this chapter have been complied with;
(2) it is for the best interests of the creditors; (3) it is
fair and equitable and feasible . . .; and (5) the pro-posal and its acceptance are in good faith . . ." § 366.
There are no provisions for an .independent study of the
debtor's affairs by court or trustee, or for advice by them
to creditors with, respect -to their 'rights or interests in
advance of their consent to the arrangement. Commit-.
tees of the creditors are permitted, § § 334, '338, but there
is no restriction on or Supervision over- their selection and
conduct as in Chapter X, The arrangement may be consummated at the conclusion of a single creditors' meet-'
ing. The court in passing upon the arrangement, is
without the benefit of investigation and study by the.
trustee or Commissiofi, which Congress has required. in
reorganization -proceedings under Chapter X, and is then
faced with the fact that a majority of the creditors have
already accepted the plan.

) 952

4OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

Still, more important are the differences in the remedies
obtainable under the two chapters which result from
differences in the-nature of the two proceedings and in the
securities which may be affected by them.. A plan under
Chapter X may affect one or more classes of debts or'securities of the corporation to be reorganized, and a
subsidiary of the debtor may be brought into such a proceeding and reorganized with the debtor.: § 129. Under
Chapter XI only the rights of unsecured creditors 'of the
debtor may be. arranged and this without alteration of
the status of any'other classes of security holders or of
subsidiaries. Both chapters provide for confirmation of,
the plan or .arrangement by the judge "if satisfied that"
-it "is fair and equitable and feasible" and if "the proposal" of the plan or arrangement "and its acceptance
1are in good faith," §§ 221, 366. "Fair and equitable,"
taken from § 77B,and made the condition of confirmation
under both Chapter X'or Chapter XI are "words of art"
having a-well understood meaning in reorganizations in
equitable receiverships and under § 77B which is incorporated in the structure of both Chapters X and XI.
See Case v., Los Angeles.Lumber Products Co., 308 U. S.
106- 115, et seq. The phrase signifies that the plan or airrangement must conform to the rule of Northerii Pacific
Ry. Co.'v. 'Boyd, 228. U. S. 482, which established the
principle which we recently applied in the,Loi Ageles
case, that in a y -plan' of corporate reorganization unsecureq creditors'.are entitled to priority over stockholders
.to the full extent of their debts ahd that any scaling
down 'of the claims of creditoks without some fair compensating advantage to them wiichi is *ior to the rights
of stockholders is inadmissible.
Sinc the sections under Chapter XI already'considered
admit of an "arrangement" only with respect to unsecured
creditors without alteration of,the relations of any other'.
,

*SECURITIES GOMMN-v. U., S; REALTY CO.
434

453

Opinion, of the Court.

class of security holders, and since it contemplates, as
required by § 366, that the arrangemert shall .be fair
and equitable within the meaning of the Boyd case, itis
evident that Chapter XI gives no appropriate scope for
an arrangement of an ursecured indebtedness held by
some nine hundred individual creditors of a corporation
having seven thousand stockholders. -The hope of securing an arrangement which is fair and equitable and in
the best interests of unsecured creditors, without some
readjustment of the rights of stockholders such as may be
had under Chapter X, but is precluded by Chal~ter XI,
is at best but negligible, iwd, if'accomplished at all, must
be without the aids to the.protection of creditors and the
public interest which are provided by Chapter X, and
which would seem to be indispensable to a just determination whether the plan is fair and equitable.
Respondent suggests that the proposed arrangement
may be taken to satisfy the test of the Boyd case §ince
under it the certificate holders would receive a new.guarantee, enforcible as to principal notwithstanding the New
York moratorium law, in place-of the old guaraitee to
which that law applies. - See Honeyman v. Hanan, 275
N. Y. 382; 9 N. E. 2d 970, appeal dismissed 302 U. S. 375.
It also insists that it is not impossible that an arrangement of its unsecured indebtedness under Chapter XI may
be proposed which would meet the test. It states that,
availing itself of the privilege afforded by. §.363, it has
proposed an amended arrangement which is not in the
record and the terms of which -are not disclosed. But it
suggests that the arrangement could be amended so as
to provide for a ratable distribution to certificate holders
of preferred stock of Trinity, respondent's subsidiary,
held by respondent or for a similar distribution of cash.
But such suggestions raise the question whether'the supposed advantage to. the' creditors- is a fair and adequate
substitute for the elimination of stckholders within the.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

.requirements of the Boyd case-a question which obviously cannot be answered with any assurance in the present
case with6ut resort to the facilities, for investigation of
the financial condition and structure of the debtor knd its
subsidiary, ,and to the expert aid and advice of the
Commission availablb under Chapter X.
Confirmation, of an arrangement follows a finding 'of
the court that it is for the best interests of the creditors,
§ 366 (2). - Here determination of what is in the "best
interest of the .dreditors" depends on the answer to the.
question whether the stockholders should be eliminated
or the creditors should receive some substitute compensation, and whether that compensation is fair and equitable.
In a situation like the present it is in the best interests
of the creditors that these questions should be answered
in a Chapter X proceeding.
While th: means that arrangements of unsecured debts
of corporatilioN like respondent, may not be "in the best
interests of cdilitors" and "feasible" under Chapter XI,
it does not mean that there is no scope for application
of that chapter in many-cases where the debtor's financial
business and corporate structure differ from respondent's.
This is especially the case with small individual -or
corporate business where there are no public or 'private
interests involved requiring protection by the procedure
and remedies afforded by- Chapter X. "In cases where
subordinate creditors -or the stockholders are the managers of its business,--the preservation of going-concern
value through their continued-management of the business
may compensate for reduction of the claims of the prior
creditors without alteration of the management's interests,
which would otherwise be required by the Boyd case. SeeCasev. Los Angeles.Lumber Products CO., supra, 121, 122.
Under . 146 (2) -a petition, may not be filed,,under
Chapter X unless -the judge is satisfied that "adequate
relief" would not be obtainable under, Chapter .XI.

SECURITIES COMM'N v. U. S. REALTY CO.
434

455

Opinion of the Court.

Obviously the adequacy of the relief under Chapter XI
mus't be appraised in comparison with that to -be had
under Chapter X, and in the light of its effect on all the
public and private interests concerned including those of
the debtor. Applying this test, if respondent had proceeded under Chapter X the judge Would have been compelled upon inquiry to approve its petition on the ground
that it complied with the requirements of Chapter X,
and that adequate relief could not be obtained under
Chapter XI. That being the case the question here is
whether, in the absence of any provision of Chapter XI
specifically authorizing the dismissal of the petition, the
district court should on that ground have dismissed the
proceeding under Chapter XI, leaving respondent free to
proceed under Chapter X, which affords every remedy
which could be obtained under Chapter XI and more.
A bankruptcy court is a court of equity, § 2, 11 U. S. C.
§11, and is guided by equitable doctrines and principles
except in so far as they are inconsistent with the Act.
Bardes v. HawardenBank, 178 U. S. 524, 534, 535; Continental Illinois Nat. Bank & T. Co. v. Chicago, R. I. & P.
Ry. Co., 294 U. S. 648, ,675; Wayne United Gas Co. v.
Owens-Illinois Glass Co., 300 U. S. 131; Pepperv. Litton,
308 U. S. 295. A court of equity may in its discretion
in the exercise of the jurisdiction committed to it grant
or deny relief pon performance f a condition which will
safeguard the public interest., It may in the public interest, even withhold relief altogether, and it would seem
that it is bound to stay its hand in the public interest
when it reasonably appears that private right will not
suffer. Pennsylvania v. Williams, supra, 185 and cases
cited; Virginian Ry. Co. v. Federation,300 U. S. 515, 549,
et seq. Before the provisions for alternative remedies
were, brought into the Bankruptcy Act by Chapters X
and XI the 6ccasion was rare when a court could have
felt free to deny a petition in order to serve some public

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.-

or collateral- interest at the, expense of the petitioner's
right to an adjudication. But here respondent, if dismissed, ieed not go without remedy. All that- it can
secure rightly -or equitably in a Chapter XI proceeding.
is to,be had in a Chapter X proceeding. ' The case stated
most favorably to respopdent is that it has proposed, an
arrangement which appears on its face not to be "fair
and equitable" and-hence not to be entitled to confirmation under Chapter XI. Respondent's circumstances, as
disclosed by its. petition and proposed arrangement, are
such as to raise a serious question whether any fair and
equitable: arrangement in the best interest of creditors
can be effected without some re-arrangement of its capital structure. In any case, that and subsidiary questions
cannot beoanswered in the best interest of creditors withbut recourse to-the procedure of a Chapter X proceeding.
Pending th6 litigation respondent seeks to stay the hand
of its creditors and in the meantime to avoid that inquiry
into its financial condition and practices and its business
prospects; provided for by Chapter X, without which
there is at least danger that any adjustment of its indebtedness will not be just and equitable, and that its
-revived financial life will be too short to serve any public.,. or private interest other than that of respondent.
In this.situation, we think the, court was as free to
determine whether the relief afforded by Chapter XI was
adequate as it would have been if respondent had filed
its petition under Chapter X. What the.court' can decide
under § 146 of Chapter X as to the adequacy of the relief
-afforded by Chapter XI, it can decide in the exercise of
'its equity powefs under Chapter XI for the purpose of
safeguarding the public and private interests involved
and protecting its own 'jurisdiction from misuse. Here,
we think it was plainly the duty of the district court in
the exerbise of -a sound discretion to have dismissed the
-

SECURITIES COMN'lN v. U. S. REALTY CO.
434

457

Opinion of the Court.

petition, remitting respondent if it was so advised to the
,imitibtion of a proceeding under Chapter X, in which it
may secure a reorganization which, after study and investigation *appropriate to its' corporate business structure
and ownership, is found to be fair, equitable and feasible,
and in the best interest of creditors. While a bankruptcy
court cannot, because of its own -notions of equitable
principles, refuse to award the relief which Congress has
accorded the bankrupt, the ieal question is, what is the relief which Congress has accorded the bankrupt and is it
more likely to be secured in a Chapter X or Chapter XI
proceeding? In answering it 'we cannot assume that
Congress has disregarded well settled principles of equity,
the more so when Congress itself has provided that the
relief to be given shall be "fair and equitable and feasible." Good sense and legal tradition alike enjoin that
an enactnent of Congress dealing with bankruptcy should
be read in harmony with the existing system of equity
jurisprudence of which it is a part.
-if respondent had sought relief by way of an equity
receivership such would have been the duty of the court.
Pennslvaidv. Williams, supra., We think it is no less
so here. Before the efiactment of Chapters X and XI, the
district court in a77B procaedihg was "'not bound to clog
its docket "with visionary or' impracticable schemes of
resuscitation," however honest the efforts of the debtor
.and however sincere its motives, and it was its 4duty to
dismiss the proceeding whenever it appeared that a fair
and equitable plan was not. feasible, leaving the debtor
to the alternative remedy of bankruptcy'liquidation, see
* Tennessee -Publishing Co. v. American National Bank,
299 U. S. 18, 22. And it has long been the practice of
bankruptcy 'courts to permit creditors or others not entitled to file pleadings or otherwise contest the allegations,
of a petition, to move for the vacation of an adjudication

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

.or the dismissal of a petition on grounds, whether strictly
-jurisdictional or not, that the proceeding ought not to be
allowed to proceed.
The Court of Appeals thought that the Commission
had no such special interest as to.entitle it to intervene
as of right in the Chapter XI proceeding and concluded
that the district court erred in permitting the intervention and that from this it followed that the Commission
had no right to appeal. Its decision is in- effect that a
governmental agency not asserting the right to possession or control of specific property involved in a litigation
-may not be permitted to intervene without statutory
authority. Neither Chapter X nor Chapter XI, in terms,
gives a right of "intervention," but the -Commission is
authorized, with the permission of the court, to appear
in any Chapter X proceedings, § 208. Such right as the.
Commission may have to intervene in a Chapter XI proceeding is, therefore, governed by the Rules of Civil
Procedure and the general principles governing intervention. We are not here concerned with the refinements
of the distinction between intervention, as a matter of
right, which the Court of Appeals thought was restricted
to cases where the intervenor has a direct pecuniary
interest in the litigation, and permissive intervention, a
distinction which has been preserved by Rule 24 of the
Rules of Civil Procedure. *For here the question is not
of the-'.Commission's intervention "as of right," but
whether the district court abused its discretinn in permitting it to intervene.
The Commision is, as'we have seen, charged with the
performance of important public duties in every case
brought under Chapter X, which will be thwarted, to the
" 'Roydl Indemnity Co. v. American Bond & Mortgage Co., 61 F.
2d 875, aff'd 289. U. S. 165; In re.Ettinger, 76 F. 2d 741; Chicago
Bank of Commerce v. Carter, 61 F. 2d 986; Vassar Foundry Co. v.
Whiting Corp., 2 F. 2d 240; In r6 Nash, 249 F. 375.

SECURITIES COMM'N v. U. S. REALTY CO.
434

459

Opinion of the Court.

public injury, if a debtor may secure adjustment of his
debts in a Chapter XI proceeding when, upon the applicable principles which we have discussed, he should be
required to proceed, if at all, under Chapter X. The
Commission's duty and its interest extend not only to
the performance of its prescribed functions where a petition is filed under Chapter X, but to the prevention, so
far as the rules of procedure permit, of interferences with
their performance through improper resort to a Chapter
XI proceeding in violation of the public policy of the
Act which it is the duty of the court to safeguard by
relegating respondent to a Chapter X proceeding. The
Commission did not here intervene to perform the advisory functions required of it by Chapter X, but to object
to an improper exercise of the court's jurisdiction which,
if permitted to 'continue, contrary to the court's own
equitable duty in the premises, would defeat the public
interests which the Commission was designated to represent. Sen. Rep. No. 1916, 75th Cong., 3d Sess., p. 31.
Rule 24 of the. Rules of Civil Procedure, made applicable to bankruptcy proceedings by paragraph 37 of the
General Orders in Bankruptcy, authorizes "permissive
intervention." It directs that "upon timely application
anyone may be permitted to intervene in an action . . .
(2) when an applicant's claim or defense and the main
action have a question of law or fact in common. In
exercising'its discretion, the, court shall consider whether
the intervention will unduly delay or prejudice theJ adjudication of the rights of the original parties." This
provision plainly dispenses with any requirement that the
intervenor shall have a direct personal or pecuniary interest in the subject of the litigation. Cf. Pennsylvania
v. Williams, supra. If, as we have said, it was the duty
of the court to dismiss the Chapter XI proceeding because its -maintenance there would defeat the public
interest in having any'scheme of reorganization of re-

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

spondent subjected- to the scrutiny .of the Commission,
we think it plain that the CommisSion has a sufficient
interest in the maintenance of its statutory authority and
the performance of ifs public duties to entitle it through
intervention to prevent'reorganizations, which should
rightly be subjected to its scrutiny, from proceeding
without. it. The Exchange, 7 Cranch 116; Stanley -v.
Schwalby, 147 U. S. 508; Interstate Commerce Comm'n v.
Oregon-WashingtonR. Co., 288 U. S. 14; Penisylvaniav.
Williams, supra. See, Hopkins Savings Assn. v.. Cleary,
296 U. S. 315. Cf. In re * ebs, 158 U. S. 564; Yew York
v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296, 307-308.
This interest of the Commission does not differ from
that of a liquidator under a state statutory proceeding
who may, in a proper case, intervene in an equity receivership in a federal court to ask the court to relinquish its
jurisdiction in favor of the state proceeding. Pennsylvania
v. Williams,. supra. -Neither the liquidator nor the
state has any personal, financial or pecuniary'interestin
the property in-the custody of the federal court. Their
only initerest, like that of the Commission, is a public one,
to maintain the state authority and to secure.a liquidation
in conformity to state policy. The "claim or defense"
-of the Commission founded Upon this interest has a question of law in common with the main proceeding in the
course of which any party or a creditor could challenge
10
the propriety of the court's proceeding under Chapter XI.
The claim or defense is thus within the requirement of
Rule 24 and intervention was properly allowed. The
Commission was, therefore, a party aggrieved by the
court's order refusing to dismiss and was entitled to appeal
under §§ 24 and 25 of the Bankruptcy Act. See Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Oregon-WashingtonR. Co..
supra;Texas v. Anderson, dlayton& Co.'. 92 F. 2d 104.
'See"Note 8 supra.

SECURITIES COMM'N v. U. S. REALTY CO.
434

461

Ronmars; J., dissenting.

Section 208, applicable to proceedings tinder Chapter X,
gives the Commission, upon filing its notice f appearance,.
"the right to be heard on all matters arising in such proceeding," but ' rovides that it "may not appeal or file
any petition for appeal in any such proceeding." As § 208
has no application to a proceeding under Chapter XI, it
is unneceissary to consider the suggestion of the Commission that the limitation of the section is upon appeals
to review questions arising. in the proceeding from the
performance by the Commission of its advisory functions
and does not preclude it from appealing to challenge
the exercise or non-exercise by the district court of its"
jurisdiction under Chapter X.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS did not participate in the decision
of this case.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:

The Chandler Act' revised the Bankruptcy Act of
1898, as amended, and, in chapters X, XI, XII, XIII, and
XIV, provided for corporate reorganizations, arrangements, real property arrangements, wage earners' plans,
and Maritime Commission liens These, with chapter
VIII, authorizing agricultural compositions, chapter IX,
dealing with indebtedness of local taxing agencies, chapter
XV, added by Act of July 28, 1939, 53 Stat. 1134, and
§ 77, relating to reorganization of interstate railroads, in
addition to the seven chapters of the original Act, constitute a comprehensive system for accommodating or
liquidating indebtedness in the interest of both debtors
and creditors. In chapters X to XIII, inclusive, added
by the Chandler Act, the first section states: "The provisions of this chapter shall apply exclusively to proceedinags under this chapter," thus evidencing the purpose to
'Act.of June 22, 1938, 52 Stat. 840.

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
ROBFaTs, J., dissenting.

310 U.S.

make each type of proceeding complete and exclusive of
the others.
The proceeding instituted by the respondent, as is conceded, falls precisely within the terms of chapter XI,
which deals with arrangements, and confers jurisdiction
on the District Court to entertain the cause. But it is
said that for the court to exercise that jurisdiction would
be so contrary to the unexpressed purpose of Congress
that the court should have refused to act. The decision
assumes that if Congress had been interrogated as to its
intent it would have expressed its will that an arrangement by one having such a financial structure as the
respondent should not be permitted, and that, in order
to prevent such a result, Congress, if it had been prescient, would have so stated. This seems to me to go
beyond the construction of the Act as it is written and
to amount to an amendment'of it. I think that this is not
admissible on the ground advanced that to hold otherwise
would be to nullify rather than to effectuate the intent
of Congress which is thought to pervade the statutory
schenme.
Where the words are as plain and unambiguous as they
are in chapter XI, recourse cannot be had to legislative
history or other extraneous aids to construe them in some
other sense, to add to, or to subtract from, what is
written
But if resort to conventional aids to construction were
admissible, they seem to me to confirm the statutory right
of the respondent to proceed under chapter XI and to
'Thompson v. United States, 246 U. S. 547, 551; Iselin v. United
States, 270 U. S. 245, 250; United States v. Missouri Pacific R. Co.,
278 U. S. 269, 277; United States v. Shreveport Grain & Elevator
Co., 287 U. S. 77, 83; Helvering v. City Bank Farmers Trust Co.,
296 U. S. 85, 89; Wallace v. Cutten, 298 U. S. 229, 237; Osaka Shosen
Line v. United States, 300 U. S. 98, 101; Palmer v. Massachusetts,
308 U. S. 79, 83.

SECURITIES COMM'N v. U. S. REALTY CO.
434

ROBERTS,

463

J., dissenting.

preclude a holding that it should have proceeded under
chapter X.
Under § 12 of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898 a corporation could propose a composition, but, as recourse to
bankruptcy, whether for the purpose of liquidation or of
proposing a composition, was dependent upon insolvency
as defined in the statute rather than mere inability to
pay debts as they accrued, a company finding itself in
the latter condition could not avail itself of the bankruptcy jurisdiction but had to resort to an equity receivership.
In 1932 the Solicitor General, in a report to the President on the Bankruptcy Act and its administration, 3
pointed out tht difficulties of proposing a compbsition
in bankruptcy and suggested relief of the sort which was
ultimately accorded by the adoption of § 77B.
By an Act of March 3, 1933,' there was added to the
Act a provision- which permitted "any person excepting
a corporation," by petition, or by answer in an involuntary proceeding, to assert his insolvency or his inability
to meet his debts as they accrued and his desire to effect
a composition or an extension of time to pay his debts,
and to adjust his indebtedness in that way. Thus an
arrangement procedure was provided for individuals who
were not insolvent in the bankruptcy sense. The same
legislation also provided for agricuiltural comnpositions
and extensions and for reorganizations of interstate railroads, but Congress did not, at that time, afford any
further relief to corporations generally.
By the Act of June 7, 1934,' § 77B was added, permitting the reorganization of a corporation unable to meet
its debts as they mature.
'Sen. Doe. 65, 72d Cong., 1st Sess.
-47 Stat. 1467, § 74.
848 Stat. 911.

464

4OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
'RoBERTs, J., dissenting.

310 U. S.,

When, by the Chandler Act-, Congress determined to
revise.and 'codify the .entire bankruptcy system, it repealed § 12 and § 74 and, in lieu 6f them, adopted chapter
XI; permitting arrangements of unsecured debts by individuals, partnerships, and corportions. It'- thus
clearly drew a distinction, between a reorganization which
affects various classes of creditors and stockholders and
an arrangement which is merely 'an extension, adjustment, or accommodation of unsecured claims without disturbing either secured claims or stock interests. Where
this simple form of accommodation would suffice, it was
.not intended that the corporation, should have the
privilege of a reorganization under- chapter X, the successor of § 77B, for it is provided in chapter X (§ 146)
that a petition -shall not be deemed to be filed in. good
faith if adequate relief would be obtainable by a debtor's
petition under the provisions of chapter XI and further
(§ 147) that a petition filed under chapter X improperly,
because adequate relief, can be obtained under chapter
XI, may be amended to comply with chapter XI and may
be proceeded with as if originally filed under the latter.
No such provisi6n is found in chapter XI with respect to
a case, properly falling under chapter X. Obviously the
right to proceed under ehapter X was deemed a privilege
of which a corporation could not avail itself if it could
proceed'under chapter XI.
Thegravamen of petitioner's argument is that Congre.ss intended tht more detailed and cumbersome procedure of chapter X to apply wherever securities of the
corpQration were held by the public whereas chapter XI
was intended to apply, only in the case of individuals or
corporations not having such securities outstanding.
The Act wil be searched in vain for any hint of such
a distinction. Small corporations are permitted to avail
S11 U. S. C. §§ 706, 707.

SECURITIES COMM'N v. U. S. REAITY CO.
434

ROBERTS,

465

J., dissenting.

themselves of chapter X if stockholders' or secured creditors' rights are to be affected; large corporations, under
the very letter of chapter XI, may avail themselves of its
provisions if all they desire to do is to extend or accommodate their unsecured indebtedness. The smallest
corporation cannot come in under chapter XI if it .desires
what has been traditionally known as a reorganization.
The largest corporation may proceed under chapter XI if
it does not desire a reorganization.
The argument of the Commission comes merely to this:
That foresight and providence on the part of Congress
would have dictated a different line of demarcation
between the two chapters and that what Congress should
have said in chapter XI was that any debtor which did
not have securities outstanding in the hands of the public
might file a petition under chapter XI but that all others
must file under chapter X.
The legislative history furnishes but the scantiest
support for the argument. Indeed it bears quite as
strongly against the Commission's contention as in its
favor. The only item to which counsel is able to point
is a committee report to the House "wherein it is said:
"Section 12 has been recast; such features of section 74
are incorporated as are deemed of value, and the combined
sections are made chapter XI of the act under the title
'Arrangements' . . . The inclusion of corporations will
permit a large number of the smaller companies such as
are now seeking relief under section 77B but do not require
the complex machinery of that section, to resort to the
simpler and less expensive, though fully adequate, relief
afforded by section 12."
It is undoubtedly true that many more small corporations will find chapter XI available than large ones but
this does not at all support the Commission's claim that
.H. Rep. 1409, 75th Cong., Ist. Sess., pp. 50-51.

466

OCTOBERTERM, 1939.,
ROBSRTS,

J., dissenting.

310 U. S.

the chapter was not. intended to be available to companies
hlvjing securities in the hands of th 'public.
On the. other hand, testimony before the Congressional
Committee was to the effect that large corporations would
not 'come under chapter X if they were seeking merely
to adjust their unsecured debts and should go, therefore,
under chapter XLJ
One of the draftsmen of the Chandler Act, in a public
exposition,' has said:
"What is the line of demarcation between proceedings
under Chapter X and Chapter XI? Without attempting
to go into detail, Chapter XI proceedings are intended
for the reorganization of corporations with simple debt
structures --reorganizations under which the interests of
.stockholders and-secured creditors are not to be modified
or readjusted. If- secured claims or stock interests are
to be changed without the consefit of all of the stockholders
and secured creditors, proceedings must be instituted under
Chapter X."
That chapters X and XI were not written in ignorance
of the distinction between corporations having publicly
owned securities and. those which have not, is shown by.
the fact that a special committee's report called attention
to this difference and 'suggested that corporations not
having' such securities outstanding be permitted to go
under the arrangements chapter whereas the first named
should be required to file under what is now 'chapter X."'
With this suggestion before it Congress adopted a different
criterion.
-When-all is considered it is evident that little support
for the Commission's argument can be gained from the
Hearing, Subcommittee Senate Judiciary Committee on H. R.
8046, 75th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 75.
9
Journal of the National Association of Referees in Bankruptcy
(Jan. 1939), p. 72.
"°Sen. Doe. 268, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 9-15.

SECURITIES COMN-MN v. U. S. REALTY CO.
434

ROBERTS,

467

J., dissenting.

legislative history. It is of no avail to urge that it would
have been far better for Congress to adopt a different
scheme and that the public interest which Congress had
in mind in writing chapter X extends quite as much to a
composition such as that proposed in the instant case
as to the reorganizations envisaged in chapter X. These
considerations may well be urged upon Congress in support
of an amendment of the statute but they can have no
weight with a court called upon to apply its plain language.
Equally unavailing is the argument that the present
case must belong under chapter X since secured creditors
and stockholders must be brought into the reckoning and
because one of the requirements of § 366 is that the court
must find the arrangement is "fair and equitable and
feasible." It is said that this phrase is a term of art, given
meaning by olr decision in NorthernPacific R. Co. v. Boyd,
228 U. S. 482, and that, within that meaning, . no fair,
equitable, and feasible plan can here be accomplished
under chapter XI although it could be under chapter X.
The short answer is that the phrase is used not only'
in chapter XI and chapter X but also in chapter XII,
respecting real property arrangements, and in chapter
XIII respecting wage earners' plans." Obviously the
phrase as used in the Chandler Act. must be given the
connotation appropriate to the section in which it is
used.
Another argument put forward is that, as courts of
bankruptcy are courts of equity, they may, as a chancellor
might in the case of a bill for receivership, find that the
balance of convenience requires a refusal to exercise a
jurisdiction possessed. I think this is a complete misapplication of the principle that a court of bankruptcy is a
court of equi.ty. That has been many times stated but
never in connection with the right of a. debtor to invoke
the remedy provided by Congress in the bankruptcy laws.
"See §§ 472 and 656, 11 U. S. C. §§ 872, 1056.

468 ,

I OCTOBER TERM. 1939:
RoBERTS,

J., dissenting.

310 U. S.

The legislature has specified who is entitled to the relief
provided by the statute and in what circumstances. The'
court has no power to refuse that relief on the ground
that some other relief would better serve the purpose.
What -is meant by the statement that a court of bankruptcy is a court of equity is that its function is to make
an equitable distribution of the estate among the creditors, but the principle has not been applied in the sense
that the court may, in its better. judgment, refuse
to award the relief which Congress has accorded the
bankrupt.
No stockholder or creditor, secured or unsecured, has
attempted to raise the question of the District Court's
jurisdiction under chapter XI. The Securities and Exchange Commission, although charged with no duty by
the Act in connection with proceedings under chapter
X, has sought to intervene and to appeal from a decision
by the District Court adverse to the Commission's views.
Although the Commission may be permitted to appear in
chapter X proceedings, it is expressly provided that it
may not appeal from any decision.'" No analogous provision is found in chapter XI although that chapter does.
in certain instances, grant interested parties the right to
be heard."3
By general order the Rules of Civil Procedure are made
applicable in bankruptcy so far as practicable. , It is suggested that Rule 24 authorizes the Commission's intervention but a mere reading of the rule shows that neither
intervention of right, nor permissive intervention, is
available to the Commission in this case. The Commisson may not intervene as of right under the rule because
no statute confers on it an unconditional right to intervene; the Commission has no interest- which may be
bound by a judgment in the action; and it cannot be
-§ 208, 11 U S. C. § 608.
334 and 365, 11 U. S. C. §§ 734 and 765.

"§§

APEX HOSIERY CO. v. LEADER.

469

Syllabus.

434

adversely affected by the court's decision. It is not entitled to permissive intervention because no statute confers a conditional right to intervene and because it has
.no claim or defense which will be affected by any decision
of law or fact by the court. The cases in which bankruptcy courts have allowed creditors to raise questions

of venue or of jurisdiction to adjudicate under the terms

of the statute, where the proceeding would affect the
creditors' financial interest, are inapposite, as are also
equity receivership cases where an official intervenes in
order to clain the right, as such official, to take over and
administer the property in the possession of the court.

I am of the opinion that the judgment should be
affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

agree With this opinion.

APEX HOSIERY CO. v. LEADER ET AL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 638.

Argued April 1, 2, 1940.-Decided May 27, 1940.

Members of a labor union, bent on unionizing a hosiery factory
in which but a few of them were employed, forcibly, aid in
violation of civil and criminal laws of the State, took possession
of the plant and held it during a protracted "sit-down" strike,
during which much of the machinery was willfully injured or
destroyed and during which the business, largely interstate, was
.entirely suspended. When the plant was seized there were on
hand 130,000 dozen pairs of finished hose, of atvalue of $800,000,
ready for shipment on unfilled orders,. mostly destined to points
outside of the State. Shipment was prevented by the strikers, who
repeatedly refused requests made by the owner for permission to
*William Leader and American Federation of Full Fashioned
* Hosiery Workers, Philadelphia, Branch No. 1, Local No. 706, rezponden's.

