414

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. SUMMERLIN, ANCILLARY
ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF FLORIDA.
No. 715.

Argued April 29, 1940.-Decided May 27, 1940.

1. A claim assigned to the Federal Housing Administrator became
a claim of, and enforcible by, the United States. Act of June 27,
1934. P. 416.
2. Whether the United States sues in its own court or in a state court,
it is not bound by state, statutes of limitations or subject to the
defense of laches. P. 416. .The fact that the claim in question was acquired by the United
States under the National Housing Act does not take the case out
of the rule. P. 416.
3. A state statute providing that claims against a decedent's estate
,not filed within a specified period shalI be void might deprive the
state probate court, of jurisdiction to receive and pass upon a claim
of the United States, but can not affect its validity. P. 417.
140 Fla. 475; 191 So.,842, reversed.,

CERTIORARI, 309U. S. 647, to'review the affirmance of a
judgment declaring a claim of the United' States against
a decedent's estate void because not filed within the time
prescribed by a state statute.
Mr. Frederick Bernays Wiener, with whom Solicitor
General Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Shea, and
Mr. Melvin H. Siegel were on the brief, for the United
States.,
Mr. Asbury Summerlin for respondent.

MR.CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
By, a series of transactions, which it is unnecessary to
review, the Federal Housing Administrator, acting on
behalf of the United States, became the assignee of a
claim against the estate of one J.F. Andrew, deceased.

U. S. v. SUMMERLIN.
414

415

Opinion of the Court.

Respondent was appointed ancillary administratrix of
that estate by the County Judge of Polk County, Florida.
Respondent, on August 13, 1937, gave notice by publication to the creditors of the estate to file proof of their
claims within eight, months as required by the state
statute.
The United States filed its claim in the office of the
County Judge on July 1, 1938, with a petition asking
that the claim be allowed with the priority accorded by
the federal statutes (31 U. S. C. 191, 192) and also
asserting that the state statute as to the time for filing
claims did not apply to claims of the United States. The
County Judge denied the petition, holding that the state
statute, was applicable and further adjudging that the
claim of the United States be "disallowed as a claim
against the estate" of the decedent.
The United States appealed to the Circuit Court for
Polk County, where the order of the County Judge was
in all respects affirmed. The judgment explicitly declared
the claim of the United States to be "void," because not
filed within the time prescribed. An appeal to the Supreme Court of Florida resulted in affirmance of the
judgment of the Circuit Court. 140 Fla. 475; 191 So.
842. We granted certiorari because of the importance of
the question. 309 U. S. 647.
The statute of Florida (ยง 5541 (92) Compiled General
Laws of 1927, Supp.) provides:
"No claim or demand, whether due or not, direct or
contingent, liquidated of unliquidated, or claim for personal property in the possession of the personal representative or for damages, shall be valid or binding upon an
estate,. or upon the personal representative thereof, or
upon any heir, legatee, or devisee of the decedent unless
the same shall be in writing and contain the place of
residence and post office address of the claimant and shall
be sworn to by the claimant, his agent or attorney, and
be filed in the office of the county judge granting letters.

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

Any such claim or demand not so filed within eight months
.from the time of the first publication of the notice to
creditors shall be void even though the personal representative has recognized such claim or demand by paying
a portion thereof or interest thereon or otherwise: . . ."
The claim assigned to the Federal Housing Administrator acting on behalf of the United States became the
claim of the United States, and the United States thereup6hibecame entitled to enforce it. Act of June 27, 1934,
48 Stat. 1246. Compare Graves v. New York ex ret.
O'Keefe, 306 U. S.- 466, 477; Pittman v. Home Owners'
Loan Corp., 308 U. S.21, 32, 33.
It is well settled that the United States is not bound by
state statutes of limitation or subject to the defense of
laches in enforcing its rights. United States v. Thompson,
98 U. S.486; United States v. Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry.
Co., 118 U. S. 120, 125, 126; Stanley.v. Schwalby, 147 U. S.
508, 514,_ 515; Guaranty Trust Co.v. United States, 304
U. S.126, 132; Board of Commissioners v. United States,
308 U. S. 343, 351. The same rule appli s whether the
United States brings its suit in its own courts or in a state
court. Davis v. Corona Coal Co., 265 U. S. 219, 222,
223.
We are of the olinion that the fact that the claim was
acquired by the United States through operations under
the National Housing Act does not take the. case out of
this rule. The .state court treated the case as in the.same
category as one of "statutes providing for conveyancing
and marketing negotiable instruments, and conducting
other business relations." But this is not a case relating
to the application of the law merchant as to the transfer
of negotiable paper and the diligence necessary to charge
an endorser or as to the incurring by the United States of
certain responsibilities by becoming a party to such paper.
United States v. Barker, 12 Wheat. 559; Cooke v. United
States, 91 U. S.389, 396. Even as a holder of such paper,

U. S. v. SUMMERLIN.
414

Opinion of the Court.

as e.g. negotiable bonds, the United States suing the maker
is not bound by a state stafute of limitations. United
States v. Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co., supra. When the
United States becomes entitled to a claim, acting in its
governmental capacity, and asserts its claim in that right,
it cannot be deemed to have abdicated its governmental
authority so as to become subject to a state statute putting
a time limit upon enforcement. Chesapeake & Delaware
CanalCo. v. United States, 250 U. S. 123, 126, 127.
The state court, however, has said that the statute in
question is not a statute of limitations, but rather a
statute of "non-claim" for the orderly and expeditious
settlement of decedents' estates. Presumably the court
refers to the provision of the statute that if a claim is
not filed within the specified period it "shall be void even
though the personal representative has recognized such
claim or demand -by paying a portion thereof or interest
thereon or otherwise."
If this were a statute merely determining the limits of
the jurisdiction of a probate court and thus providing that
the County Judge should have no jurisdiction to receive
or pass upon claims not filed withifi the eight months,
while leaving an oportunity to the United States otherwise to enforce its claim, the authority of the State to
impose such' a limitation upon its probate court might
be conceded. But if the statute, as sustained by the
state court, undertakes to invalidate the claim of the
United States, so that it cannot be enforced at all, because not filed within eight months, we think the statute
in that sense transgressed the limits of state power.
Davis v. Corona Coal Co., supra.
Mr. Justice Story had occasion to consider the application to the Government of a state statute purporting to
bar claims against decedents' estates in United States v.
Hoar, Fed. Cas. No. 15,373; 2 Mason 311. There an
action was brought by the United States against an ad-

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the COurt.

310 U. S.

ministrator of an estate and the defendant pleaded the
general statute of limitation of Massachusetts as to personal actions and also the particular statute limiting suits
against executors and administrators to four years after
the acceptance of the trust. Mr. Justice Story thought it
clear that the defense of these statutes of limitations
.could not avail. The question whether a further defense
of plene administravitwas good, that is, whether a. distribution of surplus assets after the payment of all known
debts among the heirs, either voluntary or under a probate decree, would protect the administrator from suit-by
the United States, it was thought not necessary to decide.
-Nor have we such a question here.
We hold that the state statute in -this instance requiring
claims to be filed within eight months cannot deprive the
United States of its right to enforce its dlan; that the
United States still has its right of action against the administrator, even though the probate court is to be regarded as having no jurisdiction to receive a claim after
the expiration of the specified period.
So far as the judgment goes beyond the question of the
jurisdiction of the probate court and purports to adjudge
that the claim of the United States is void as a claim
against the estate of the decedent because of failure to
complywith the statute, the judgment is reversed.
The cause is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

