HELVERING v. FULLER.
53

Syllabus.

beyond the technical knowledge and skill of the average
Virginia agent, and that the interests of the non-resident
assureds can be best looked after by the brokers at the
great centers of population where the head offices of the
insurance companies and of the assureds are located, and
in Virginia. by the engineering and claim personnel of the
companies. It is also true that the substantial compensation required by the statute to be paid to the Virginia
agents will increase the cost of the business."
The plain effort of Virginia is to compel a nonresident
to pay a resident of Virginia for services which tle latter
does not in fact render and is not required to render. The
principles underlying former decisions of this court are
at war with the existence of any such asserted power.'
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR.JUSTICE
in this opinion.

MCREYNOLDS

join

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. FULLER.
CERTIORARI TO THE. CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No.

427.

Argued

March 26,

1940.-Decided

April 22,

1940.

In compliance with a separation agreement approved by a decree

of divorce in Nevada, the husband created an irrevocable trust, of
shares of stock, to continue for ten years, during which period
all-trust income was to be used for the maintenance and support of the wife, or in case of her prior decease, then for the
1

Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; New York Life Ins. Co. v.
Head, 234 U. S. 149; Aetna Life Is.Cp.. v. Dunken, 266 U. S.389;
Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Tafoya, 270 U. S. 426; Home Ins. Co. v.
Dick, 281 U. S. 397; Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co. v. Delta
& Pine Land Co., 292 U. S.143; Boseman v. Connecticut General
Life Ins. Co., 301 U. S.196

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Counsel for Parties.

310 U. S.

children; or in case of their prior decease, then for the heirs
of the wife or as she should provide in her will. At the expiration
of the ten year period the trust property was to be transferred
to her outright. The husband retained "exclusive voting power"
of the shares during the term of the trust, Power to sell the
stock vested jointly in him, the wife, and the corporate trustee,
and could be exercised only in case all three agreed in writing.
Those three had the power to invest and reinvest the proceeds
and to disburse, withhold, and accumulate the principal of the
trust at their discretion, such power over the income being
vested in the wife and corporate trustee. Held:
1. The question whether the husband is taxable on the trust
income under the Revenue Acts of 1928 and 1932 is not affected
by the fact that an independent undertaking on his part to make
certain weekly payments to his wife, not'secured by the trust,
was contained in the same instrument with the trust agreement.
P. 73.
2. The provisions of the Revenue Acts of 1928, § 24 (a) (1),
and 1932, § 24, and Treasury regulations concerning the nondeductibility of "family expenses" and of "alimony" imply the
necessity for an examination of the local law to determine the
marital status and the obligations which have survived a divorce.
P. 74.
3.Under the law of Nevada, the decree and the trust agreement, no power of modification having been reserved, operated to
discharge, pro tanto,. the husband's duty of support; and under
the Revenue Acts supra, he was not taxable on the trust income.
P. 75.
4. Whether the trust agreement left the husband sufficient
interest in or control over the shares to make him the owner of
the corpus for the purposes of the federal income tax, is a question
not raised or passed upon in this case. P. 76.
105 F.2d 903, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 309 U. S. 644, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 37 B. T. A. 1333,
sustaining a determination of a deficiency in income tax.
Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Solicitor General Biddle,
Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Mr. Sewall Key
were on the brief, for petitioner.

HELVERING v. FULLER.
Opinion of the Court.

69

Mr. FrancisW. Cole, with whom Messrs. John C. Parsons and Lucius F. Robinson were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE

DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case raises the question of the circumstances under
which income paid to the taxpayer's divorced wife under
a trust, the provisions of which have been approved in
the divorce decree, is taxable to him. We granted certiorari because of the asserted misapplication by the Circuit Court of Appeals of the rule of Douglas v. Willcuts,
296 U. S. 1, to these facts:
On July 25, 1930, respondent and his wife, residing in
Connecticut, entered into an agreement in contemplation
of divorce which provided, inter alia, for the creation by
him of a trust of 60,380 shares of Class A common stock of
the Fuller Brush Co. The trust was irrevocable and was
to continue for ten years. During that period all trust
income was to be used for the maintenance and support
of the wife, or in case of her prior decease, then for the
children; or in case of their prior decease, then for the heirs
of the wife or as she should provide in her will. At the
expiration of the ten year period the trust property was
to be transferred to her outright. The agreement provided for other property settlements, for control and custody of the children, and for waiver by respondent and
his wife of all claims against each other arising out of the
marital relation. It also contained an agreement on the
part of respondent to pay the wife $40 per week for five
years, and, if at the end of that period his annual net income exceeded by the amount of the weekly payments the
sum of $60,000, to continue those weekly payments for an
additional five years or for such portion thereof as his
annual net income exceeded the above sum.

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

The wife repaired to Reno, Nevada, and obtained a
divorce decree on November 12, .1930, which "ordered,
adjudged, and decreed that said agreement entered into
between the plaintiff and the defendant on or about the
twenty-fifth day of July, 1930, be and the same hereby is
approved." On December 22, 1930, respondent created
the trust provided for in the agreement.' The corporate
trustee thereunder received from the Fuller Brush Co:
all the dividends and income from the trusteed shares during 1931, 1932 and 1933 and disbursed them all for the
benefit of the divorced wife. On the failure of respondent to include those amounts in. his tax returns for the
years in question, the Commissioner assessed deficiencies.
The decisions of the Board of Tax Appeals, 37 B. T. A.
1333, sustaining the action of the Commissioner, were reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 105 F. 2d 903.
'The trust agreement provided that he was to transfer the 60,380
shares of stock on the books of the company from himself personally
to himself as trustee and then to deliver the certificate for such shares
to the corporate trustee. This was done. Also in accordance with
the provisions of the trust respondent executed a dividend order
against the shares directing the Fuller Brush Co. to pay all dividends
to the corporate trustee. Respondent was the founder of the company
and during the years in question was its president. It had outstanding only one class of voting stock, viz. Class A common. The amount
outstanding during these years varied between 172,000 and 186,000
shares. Respondent owned 60,380 shares which together with the
60,380 shares under the trust constituted moie than a majority of
that class of stock. .By terms of the trust respondent retained "exclusive voting power" of the trusteed shares during the term of the
trust. If he died before its termination, the voting power would
pass to the wife. During that period power to sell the stock was
vested jointly in him, the wife, and the corporate trustee and could
be exercised only in case all three agreed in writing. In case of such
a sale, those three had the power to invest and reinvest the proceeds.
They also were given the power to disburse, withhold, and accumulate
the principal of the trust at their sole discretion, such power over the
income being vested in the wife and the corporate trustee.

HELVERING v. FULLER.
69

Opinion of the Court.

I. There can be no doubt but that respondent is taxable
on the $40 weekly payment to the wife. That is a continuing personal obligation falling within the rule of
Douglas v. Willcuts, supra,as a result of which those payments are taxable to him, not to the wife. Gould v.
Gould, 245 U. S. 151. But that fact does not make the
income from the trust also taxable to him. Although the
provisions for the weekly payments and for the trust
agreement were embodied in the same separation agreement, they were not so interrelated or interdependent as
to make the trust a security for the weekly payments.
Functionally they were as independent of each other as
were the other property settlements from either of them.
II. Petitioner does not challenge the conclusion of the
Circuit Court of Appeals that, so far as the trust agreement is concerned, the Nevada court retained no power to
alter or modify the divorce decree. It seems to be admitted
that under Nevada law the wife's allowance once made is
final, Sweeney v. Sweeney, 42 Nev. 431; 179 P. 638, unless
the decree itself expressly reserves the power to modify it,
Lewis v. Lewis, 53 Nev. 398; 2 P. 2d 131, or unless, the
decree approves a settlement which in turn provides for
a modification, Aseltine v. Second Judicial District
Court, 57 Nev. 269; 62 P. 2d 701. Here no such power
was reserved in the decree or in the trust agreement approved by the decree. Nor did respondent underwrite
the principal or income from the trust or any part thereof
or make any commitments, contingent or otherwise, respecting them, beyond his promise to transfer the securities to a trustee. But petitioner argues that the rule ofDouglas v. Willcuts, supra,should nonetheless apply since
the decree recognized the husband's preexisting duty to
support and defined that duty as cgextensive with what
the parties had themselves arranged, and since the husband simply carved out future income from property

-

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

which he then owned and devoted it in advance to the
discharge of his obligation.
We take a different view. If respondent had not placed
the shares of stock in trust but had transferred them
outright to his wife as part of the property settlement,
there seems to be no doubt that income subsequently
accrued and paid thereon, would be, taxable to the wife,
not to him. Under the present statutory scheme that case
would be no different from one where any debtor, voluntarily or under the compulsion of a court decree, transfers
securities, a farm, an office building, or the like, to his
creditor in whole or partial payment of his debt. Certainly it could not be claimed, that income thereafter
accruing from the transferred property must be included
in the debtor's income tax return. If the debtor retained
no right or interest in and to the property, he would cease
to be the owner for purposes of the federal revenue acts.
See Helvering v. Clifford, 309 U. S. 331. To hold that a
different result necessarily obtains where the transfer is
made or the trust is created as part of a property settlement attendant on a divorce would be to hold that for
purposes of the federal income tax the marital obligation of the husband to support his wife cannot be discharged. But whether or not it can be depends on state
law. For other purposes, local law determines the status
of the parties and their property after a decree dissolving
the matrimonial bonds. See Barrett v. Failing,II U. S.
523. And while the federal income tax is to be given a
uniform con'struction of national application, Congress
frequently has made it dependent on state law. See
Thomas v. Perkins, 301 U. S. 655, 659, and cases cited.
In the instant situation, an inquiry into state law seems
inescapable. For the provisions in the revenue acts 2
'Revenue

Act of 1928 (45 Stat. 791) § 24 (a) (1).

provision appears in § 24 of the 1932 Act (47 Stat. 169).

The same

-AELVERING v. FULLER.
69

75

Opinion of the Court.

and regulations 3 concerning the non-deductibility of
"family expenses" and of "alimony" do not illuminate
the problem beyond implying the necessity for an examination of local law to determine the marital status and the
obligations which have survived a divorce. The Nevada
cases tell us that under such a degkee as was entered here
the obligation to support was pro-tanto discharged and
ended. And the trust agreement contains no contractual
undertaking by respondent, contingent or otherwise, for
support of the wife. Hence we can only conclude that respondent's personal obligation is not a continuing one
but has been discharged pro tanto. To hold that it was
not would be to find substantial differences between this
irrevocable trust and an outright transfer of the shares
to the wife, where in terms of local divorce law we can see
only attenuated ones. This is not to imply that Congress lacks authority to design a different statutory
scheme applying uniform standarxds for the taxation of
income of the so-called alimony tfusts. A somewhat
comparable statute taxing to the grantor income from a
trust applied to the payment of premiums upon insurance policies on his life was upheld in Burnet v. Wells,
289 U. S. 670. But the reach of Congressional power
is one thing; an interpretation of a federal revenue act
based on local divorce law, quite another.
For the reasons we have stated, it seems clear that local
law and the trust have given the respondent pro tanto a
full discharge from his duty to support- his divorced wife
and leave no continuing obligation, contingent or otherwise. Hence under Helvering v. Fitch, 309 1U. S. 149,
income to the wife from this trust is to be treated the
same as income accruing from property after a debtor
'Treasury Reg. 74, Arts. 83, 281, promulgated under the 1928 Act.
The same provisions appear in Treasury Reg. 77, Arts. 83, 281.
promulgated under the 1932 Act.

OCTOBER TERM., 1939.
REED, J., dissenting.

310 U. S.

has transferred that property to his creditor in full satisfaction of his obligations.
III. One other observation is pertinent. Though the
divorce decree extinguishes the husband's preexisting duty
to support the wife, and though no provision of the trust
agreement places such obligation on him, that agreeinent may nevertheless'leave him with sufficient interest
in or control over the trust as to make him the owner of
the corpus for purposes of the federal income tax. Helvering v. Clifford, supra.
As we have seen, respondenit did retain considerable
control over the trusteed shares. But that was not the
basis for the assessment of the deficiency by the Commissioner. It was not passed upon by the Board of Tax
Appeals or the Circuit Court of Appeals. It was not included in the petition for certiorari among the errors to
be urged or the reasons for granting the writ. Nor did
petitioner brief or argue the point here. Hence we do not
pass on the applicability of the rule of Helvering v.
Clifford, supra, to these facts. Cf. Helvering v. Wood,
309 U. S. 344.
Affirmed.
244. JusTIcE

REED,

dissenting:

The opinion of the Court in this case is made to turn
upon the question whether the law of the taxpayer's
residence withdraws divorce settlements from the continuing supervision ' and subsequent modification of the
courts. Two trusts, both irrevocable, in words precisely
the same, drawn for the purpose of providing maintenance
for a former wife, recognized or approved by divorce
decrees identical in form, are to have different tax results upon the settlor. If income taxes are predominantly important, prospective divorces must locate in the
See Paul, Five Years with Douglas v. Willcuts. 53 Harv. L. Rev. 1.

HELVERING v. FULLER.
69

REED,

J., dissenting.

states where the finality of the settlement is clearly established. Compare Douglas v. Willcuts,1 Helvering v.
Fitch' and Helvering v. Leonard' with this case. The
reason given to support such a conclusion is that the liability of the settlor for taxes on trust income is based on
the possibility that the settlor may be called upon for
additional sums in the future. If the obligation continues, the tax liability continues. If the obligation is ended,
the tax liability is ended. In Douglas v. Willcuts continued liability existed. It does not seem to me, however, that this continuing liability was the real basis for
the Douglas decision. The basis for that decision was the
prior appropriation, by the creation of the trust, of future
income to meet an obligation of the taxpayer. The following excerpts from pages eight and nine show the foundation for the conclusion:
"Within the limits prescribed by the statute (and'there
is no suggestion that the provision here went beyond
those limits) the court had full authority to make an
allowance to the wife out of her husband's property and
to set up a trust to give effect to that allowance."
"Upon the preexisting duty of the husband- the decree
placed a particular and adequate sanction, and imposed
upon petitioner the obligation to devote the income in
question, through the medium of the trust, to the use of
his divorced wife."
"The creation of a trust by the taxpayer as the channel for the application of the income to the discharge of
his obligation leaves the nature of the ttabnsaction unaltered. .

.

. In the present case, the net income of the

'296 U S. 1.
2

309 U. S. 149.

'Post, p. 80.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
REsE,

J., dissenting.

310 U. S.

trust fund, which was paid to the wife under the decree,
stands substantially on the sarfe footing as though he had
received the income personally and. had been required by
the decree to make the payment directly."
The Fitch case was the first to rely explicitly upon the
finality of the settlement. It pushed the idea to the point
that the burden was upon the settlor to demonstrate the
clear finality of the local settlement. This Court there
refused to draw its own conclusion as to what the local law
was, eveu though numerous state cases touched upon the
subjeet. In Helvering v: Leonard, this Court continues to
apply the finality rule. It interprets the local law and
finds that while "mere property settlements . . . may not
be modified" the state judicial reserve power may be exercised where "'the provision in the separate agreement,
approved by the decree" is for support and maintenance.
We are now at the point where the taxability of the settlor
depends not only on the "clear and convincing proof" of
the finality of the decree but the ability to produce that
proof depends upon the skill of the draftsman of the settlement. Fine distinctions are necessary in reasoning but
most undesirable in a national tax system.
It is no answer to the problem to say that if the stock
had been transferred outright to the wife the husband
would not be liable for the tax. If the stock had been kept
by the husband and dividends paid as alimony, he would
have been liable.' Either analogy might be logically "followed in the trust situation but the choice of taxability
of trust income was made in Douglas v. Willcuts. That
case determines -the "general rule." 5
. It may be assumed that .the original obligation of the
husband to support a divorced wife depends upon state
law and to tiat extent that the state law is applicable to
'Gould v. Gould, 245 U. S. 151.
'Helvering v. Fitch, 309 U. S. 149, 156.

HELVERING v. FULLER.
69

REED,

J., dissenting.

the determination of liability under the .federal income
tax act. But that necessary reliance upon local law need
be carried no farther than the determination of obligation to support. Once that is determined the applicability of the theory of constructive receipt of income to
discharge the obligation would come into play and would
be nationwide in extent.
The obligation to support exists prior to the divorce
decree. It is ended in Nevada only upon getting the
court's approval to an arrangement which permits the
creation of a fund to meet from year to year the obligation from which the Nevada law then and only then releases the settlor husband.' It is by the court's approval
that the continuing obligation is discharged. Granting
that a lump sum payment would terminate both the
marital and the tax liability, the creation of a trust, approved by the court, for continuous payments in lieu of
alimony seems to bring the trust income much closer to
alimony than to the situation of a final settlement by
lump sum payment.
This is particularly true in this present case where the
settlement agreement shows that the husband retained
voting power over the stock placed in trust. 60,380
shares of Class A Common Stock of the Fuller Brush
Company, ,he only class of voting stock, was placed in
the trust. An equal amount was retained by the taxpayer. I ie aggregate was a majority of the total of
voting st ick outstanding. This power, retained to the
settlor, i, of weight in determining that the present trust
is more i early akin to an agreement to pay alimony than
it is to 3. satisfaction of an obligation by an unrestricted
transfer.
The judgment should be reversed.
' Ne-.ada Compiled Laws, 1929, §§ 9463 and 9465.

