150

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

310 U.S.

UNITED STATES .v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.,
INC. .TAL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH

CIRCUIT.

No. 346, Argued February 5, 6, 1940.-Decided May 6, 1940.
1, Agreements to fix prices in interstate commerce'are unlawful per se
under the Sherman Act;" and no showing of so-called competitive
abuses or evils which the agreements were designed to eliminate
or alleviate may be interposed as a defense. Pp. 210, 218.
2. Numerous oil companies and individuals -were convicted under
an indictment alleging that, in"violation of § 1 of the Sherman
Act, they conspired to raise and maintain spot market prices of
gasoline, and prices to jobbers and consumers in the "Midwestern
Area," embracing many States, by buying up "distress" gasoline
on the spot markets and eliminating it as a market factor. In
support of allegations of 'the indictment, there was evidence to
prove that the defendants, with intent to raise and maintain prices,
deyised and carried out an organized program of regularly asdertaining the amounts of surplus spot market gasoline, of assigning
its sellers to buyers who were in the combination, and of purchasing it at fair going market prices, and that this process, by removing part of the spot market supply, was at least a contributing
factor in stabilizing the spot market and thereby causing an increase of prices, so that jobbers and consumers in the midwestern
area paid more for their gasoline than they would have paid but.
for the conspiracy, their prices being geared, to spot market prices.

Held:
(1) It is immaterial to the question of guilt that other factors
also may have contributed to the rise and stability of the markets and that competition on the spot markets was not entirely
eliminated. P. 219.
(2) The elimination of so-called competitive evils is no legal
justification for such buying programs. So far as price-fixing
agreements are concerned the Act establishes one uniform rule
applicable to all industries alike. P. 220.
*Together with No. 347, Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., Inc. et al. v.
United States, also on writ of certiorari (308 U. S.540) to the Circuit Court of Appeals for -.-Q-"-nth Circuit.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

151

Syllabus.

(3) Even though the members of the price-fixing, group were in
no position to control the market, yet to the extent that they
raised, lowered, fixed, pegged, or stabilized prices they would be
directly interfering with the free play of market forces. P. 221.
(4) There was no error in the refusal to charge that, in order to
convict, the jury must find that the resultant prices were raised
and maintained at "high, arbitrary and non-competitive levels."
A charge in the indictment to that effect was surplusage. P. 222.
(5) Nor is it important that the prices paid by the combination were not fixed in the sense of being uniform and inflexible.
P. 222.
(6) A combination f6rmed for the purpose and with the effect
of raising, depressing, fixing, pegging, or stabilizing the price of
a commodity in interstate or foreign commerce is illegal per se
under the Act. P. 223.
(7) Where the means for price-fixing are purchases of a part of
the supply of the commodity for the purpose of keeping it from
having a depressive effect on the market, power to fix prices may
be found to exist though the combination does not control a substantial part of the commodity. P. 224.'
(8) Price-fixing agreements may have effective influence over
the market, and utility to members of the conspiracy group, though
the power possessed or exerted by the combination falls far short
of domination and control. The Sherman Act is not concerned
solely with monopoly power. P. 224.
(9) Proof that a combination was formed for the purpose of
fixing prices, and that it caused them to be fixed or contributed to
that result, is proof of the completion of a price-fixing conspiracy
under § i of the Act. P. 224.
(10) A conspiracy to fix prices violates § 1 of the Act though
no overt act is shown, though it is not established that the conspirators had the means available for accomplishment of their
objective, and though the, conspiracy embraced but a part of the
interstate or foreign commerce in the commodity. P. 225n.
(11) Under the National Industrial Recovery Act, 48 Stat. 195,
a price-fixing agreement could be exempted from the provisions of
the Sherman Act only through the code machinery with the approval of the President as provided in §§ 3 (a) and 5; mere
knowledge, acquiescence. or tacit approval by government employees would not suffice. Pp. 225-227.

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

310 U. S.

(12) A practice contrary to the Sherman Act, even if approved
under the National Industrial Recovery Act, becami unlawful when
continued afterthe expiration of the Recovery Act. P. 227.
(13) The fact that the buying program in this case may have
been consistent with the general objectives of the National Industrial Recovery'Act is irrelevant to its legality under the Sherman
Act, where the method provided by Congress for alleviating the
penalties of the Sherman Act was not followed. P. 227.
(14) Offers of proof by defendants to show that by their buy-..
ing program they had not raised spot market prices of gasoline
to an artificial, non-competitive level, held properly denied as
immaterial. P. 229.
(15) Offers of proof 'by defendants to establish and evaluate
other, contributing causes for price rise and market stability during the indictment period, held properly denied, as cumulative
and collateral. A trial court has a wide range of discretion in
the exclusion of such evidence. P. 229.
3. In a trial .nder the Sherman Act, where much evidence had been
given of general economic conditions before and during the indictnent period, the defense offered further evidence of market conditions antedating that period, introduction of which would have
complicated the case, confused the jury possibly, and protracted
an already lengthy trial, held that refusal of the offers was not
ground for a new trial, matters of substance not being affected.
P. 229.
4. Use of grand jury testimony for the purpose of refreshing the
recollection of a witness rests in the sound discretion of the trial
judge and no iron-clad rule requires that opposing counsel be
shown the grand jury transcript where it is not shown the witness
and where some appropriate procedure is .adopted to prevent its
improper use. Pp. 231, 233.
5. Grand jury testimony is ordinarily confidential. But after the
grand jury's functi6ns are ended, disclosure is wholly proper where
the ends of justice require it. Pp. 233-234.
6. Permission to use grand jury testimony to refresh the memories of
witnesse in a criminal case is not ground for a new trial, even if
erroneous, where it was clearly not prejudicial and did not affect
substantial rights of the defendant. Jud. Code, § 269. P. 235.
7. In the absence of exceptional circumstances, improper remarks
made by a prosecuting attorney in his argument to the jury in a
criminal trial, are not ground for a new trial if they were not
objected to at the time. Pp. 237, 238-239.

U.
150

. v. SOCONY-VACUU.M OIL CO.
Syllabus.

8. It is not improper in a Sherman Act case to discuss corporate
power, its use and abuse, relevantly to the issues; for the subject
is material to the philosophy of that Act, and its purposes and
objectives are clearly legitimate subjects for discussion before the
jury. P. 239.
9. Appeals to class prejudice in argument to a jury are highly improper and can not be condoned and trial courts should ever be
alert to prevent them. P. 239.
10. Although some of the remarks made to the jury by government
counsel in argument of this case appealed to class prejudice, were
undignified and intemperate, and did not comport with the standards of propriety expected of a prosecutor, they are, in the
particular circumstances, not regarded as prejudicial but as minor
aberrations in a prolonged trial of a strong case which could not
have influenced the minds of jurors. P. 239.
11. Statements made in argument to the jury by government counsel in a prosecution under the Sherman Act to the effect that it
was the wish and desire of the highest officials in the Government
to have the defendants convicted, held not ground for a new trial,
because the defendants had sought to justify their activities as
(lone with government approval and because the statements were
but casual episodes in a long summation and not at all reflective
of the quality of the argument as a whole. Pp. 241-242.
12. Assertions of persbnal knowledge, made in argument to the jury
by government counsel, held not prejudicial, where they related
to a matter irrelevant to the case and, upon objection, were withdrawn and the jury instructed to disregard them. P. 242.
13. The granting of a new trial to some of the defendants convicted
of a conspiracy does not require that a new trial be granted to the
others, where participation by the former was not necessary to
the existence of the crime charged and the jury was instructed
that it could convict any of the defendants found to have been
members of the combination and that it need not convict all or
none. Pp. 243, 246.
14. In a Sherman Act case, as in other conspiracy cases, the grant
of a new trial to some defendants and its denial to others is not
per se reversible error. After the jury's verdiehas been set aside
as respects some of the alleged co-conspirators, those remaining
can not seize on that action as ground for the granting of a hew
trial to them, unless they can establish that such action was so
clearly prejudicial to them that the denial of their motions constituted a plain abuse of discretion. P. 247.

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for the United States.

310 U. S.

15. As a general rule, neither this Court nor the Circuit Court of
Appeals will review the action of a federal trial court in granting
or denying a motion for a new trial for error of fact, since such
action is a matter within the discretion of the trial court. P. 247.
16. A denial of a motion for a new trial on the ground that the
verdict was against the weight of the evidence is not subject to
review. IP. 248.
17. Where an indictment charges various means by which a conspiracy is to be effectuated, not all of them need be proved. P. 249.
18. Where a price-fixing conspiracy, violating the Sherman Act,
embraced, at least by clear iiplication, the making of sales at
advaheed prices to jobbers and consumers in a wide area, held
that prosecution would lie in a judicial -district within that area
and within which such sales were made by any of the conspirators,
though the conspiracy was formed elsewhere. P. 250.
19. Conspiracies under the Act are not dependent on the doing of
any act other than the act of conspiring, as a condition of liability.
P. 252.
105 F. 2d 809, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 308 U. S. 540, on cross-petitions, to review
the 'rulings of the court below in a case involving the indictment and conviction of corporations and individuals
for a conspiracy in violation of § 1 of the Sherman AntiTrust Act. The opinion of the District Court is reported
in 23 F Supp. 937.
Mr. John Henry Lewin and Assistant Attorney General
Arnold, with whom Solicitor General Jackson and Messrs.
Chdrles H. Weston and Grant W. Kelleher were on the
brief, for the United States.
A combination formed for the purpose of controlling the
market price of a commodity and possessing the power to
make its control effective raises such danger of evil consequences which the Sherman Actwas intended to prevent,
that it falls within the direct condemnation of the statute
and can not be removed by collateral considerations urged
in justification of the restraint. UnitedStates v. Trenton
Potteries,Co., 273 U. S.392.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OILCO.
150

'155

Argument for the United States.

While the Act has-been interpreted as forbidding only
unreasonable restraints of trade and while this concept is
of value in many situations where the nature of the restraint is such that the application of the statute is doubt-

ful, the concept does not compel the conclusion that there
are no restraints which ipso facto come within the con-

demnation of the Act.
Since the price control exercised by the defendants entailed the same consequences as those flowing from an
agreement by a dominant group in an industry to sell at
uniform minimum prices, the fact that the machinery of
price control was different is immaterial.
The court below assumed that the combination was to
eliminate a competitive evil, and it said that the Trenton
Potteriescase did not bar defense of the reasonableness of
the restraint upon this ground. The former conclusion
is inconsistent with the jury's factual determination, and
the latter resulted from failure to appreciate that in the
Trento Potteries case defense of reasonableness upon
the very ground mentioned was presented and rejected.
The belief that the present combination destroyed competition only as to the gasoline which he defendants purchased from the independent refiners is erroneous. The
jury's findings, made upon ample evidence, that the defendants intended to, possessed the power to, and did,
raise and fix spot market prices, establish that the purpose
and effect of the combination was to render the entire
spot market a ?igged, artificial, and noncompetitive market, in which price was not the product of a free play of
competitive forces, but was the product of purposeful
control, attained through combination. The destruction
of competition was therefore as wide and as broad as the
market itself.
In a lengthy trial, involving a wide range of inquiry
alld a great mass of evidence, a new trial will not be

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for the United States.

310 U. S.

ordered on technical errors as to the admissibility of evidence which do not affect matters of substance.
Excluded evidence relating to conditions in the petroleum industry was merely cumulative. Excluded evidence relating to encouragement of or acquiescence in defendant's activities by government officers was indirect-,
remote, and circumstantial, and concerned a largely irrelevant issue. Excluded evidence offered to show that gasoline prices during the conspiracy period were not artificially high or noncompetitive was only remotely related
to the real issues in the case and its admission would have
raised collateral factual issues tending to confuse the jury
and unduly prolong the trial.
All of the government's important witnesses were closely
allied with the corporate defendants and were evasive
and hostile. Over 84 per cent. of the attempts to refresh
their recollection- by reference to grand jury testimony
failed, 'and no affirmative testimony of any importance.
was elicited in this way. Refusal to allow defense counsel to inspect the grand jury transcript was not reversible
error.
Attempted refreshment by reading from a transcript
not authenticated was not error. The trial court duly
warned the jury to ignore the grand jury testimony and
it exercised close supervision over the manner in which
this testimony was used.
It is immaterial that the grand jury testimony was
not strictly contemporaneous with the events to which
it related.
The culling from argument of great length of the
remarks most likely to appear- objectionable and the
assemblage of these remarks, isolated from their context,
give a totally misleading impression of the effect produced
upon the jury by the argument as a whole. Clearly there
was not here that "pronounced and persistent" misconduct of counsel which, at least if the evidence against the

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Argument for the United States.

defendant was weak, will be assumed to have prejudiced
the cause of the accused.
Substantially all of the remarks now alleged to be
prejudicial either were not objected to at the time they
were made or corrective action was taken. by the trial
court.
When producers agree to sell their product at uniform
prices, their sales are acts in furtherance of the conspiracy
and give the court in a district where sales are made jurisdiction to try the offense. United States v. Trenton Potteries Co., 273 U. S. 392, 403-404. The defendants' sales
in the trial district at the artificially raised and maintained prices are likewise acts in furtherance of this conspiracy and _gave the court there jurisdiction to try the
offense.
The charge oi the indictment against- respondents is
separate from, and independent of, the charge against the'
trade journal defendants, that they guiltily participated
by publishing false spot market prices. This charge constitutes only a subordinate means for the effectuation of
the conspiracy and is a nonessential allegation since several other means were alleged and pr6ved.
The program for concerted buying by majors of gasoline of independent refiners is the principal means for
effectuating the conspiracy set forth in the indictment.
There was no material variance between the indictment and the proof.
The district court's award of a new trial to another
corporate defendant did not have the effect of retroactively invalidating the jury's verdict against respondents. The district court denied Standard of Indiana's
motion for a directed verdict. Its motion for a new trial
was granted upon the ground that there was "good reason
to believe" that it had not had "an adequate separate
consideration" of its defense. These rulings constituted
An adjudication that the evidence was sufficient to war-

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Defendants.

310 U.S.

rantthe jury in finding that Standard of Indiana was a
party to the conspiracy. It follows, therefore, that when
the jury, in passing upon the question of the pbwer of the
defendants to raise and fix prices, did so in the light of
Standard of Indiana being a party to the conspiracy, the
jury's determination of ,the issue of- power was made on
the basis of adequate and sufficient evidence as to all
matters involved in its determination of this issue and
the jury's determination was not only free from fundamental error, it was free from error of any kind.
The ground upon which Standard of Indiana was
granted a-new trial would seem to be a doubtful one and
it was certainly one which involved, exercise of the discretion vested in trial courts in passing upon motions for new
trial. Since respondents' claim to a new trial rests on the
fact, that the distiict court determined that Standard of
Indiana - was entitled to a new trial and since this was a
purely discretionary ruling, respondents' claim to a new
trial, which can not be superior to the claim on which it
rests, must likewise lie within the realm of discretion.
Nothing is better settled than that the exercise of the
trial court's discretion in passing upon a motion for a new
trial will not be reviewed by an appellate court unless the
trial court erroneously concluded that it did not have
jurisdiction of the motion or of the grounds advanced in
support. thereof.
Respondents did not present to the, district court this
ground upon which they now urge that they are entitled
to new trials. Their failure bars them from obtaining
review by an appellate court..

Mr. William J. Donovan, 'with whom Messrs. Ra.
stone R. Irvine, Herbert H. Thomas, Harry S. Ridgely,
Hiram E. Wooster, Louis Mead Treadwell, Goldthwaite
H. Dofr, CharlesA. Frueauff, Theodore W. Brazea, Dan
Moody, William H. Zwick, James J. Cosgrove, Charles L

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

159

Argument for Defendants.

?rancis,Samuel A. Mitchell, TrumanPost Young, Roy T.
Osborn, Thomas T. Cooke, J. C. Denton, Rayburn L.
Foster, W. P. Z. German, A. F. Molony, Ralph Horween,
and Samuel Topliff. were on the brief, for respondents in
1No. 346 and petitioners in No. 347.
On no less than twelve different occasions the trial
court instructed the jury to return verdicts of guilty if
it found that the respondents had contributed in any
degree to the rise in gasoline prices. It will be noted that
these instructions are not concerned with whether the
respondents maintained prices at controlled levels, or
whether they substituted an agreed-on price for a competitive price. The sole test of legality which the instructions lay down is whether the purpose or effect of the
respondents' acts was to raise prices to any extent.
The Government concedes that "The defendants . . .
offered evidence designed-to show (1) that they did not
combine together for the purpose of controlling prices;
(2) that their purchasing activities were confined to distress material, the removal of which did not suppress
normal competition on the spot markets; . . " Obviously, the elimination of a competitive abuse such as
distress gasoline may tend to stabilize the industry and
to produce fairer price levels. The instructions of the
trial court, therefore, required a finding of guilty even
though the jury believed that the respondents' activities
had been limited to the elimination of distress gasoline
and that the removal of-such gasoline "did not suppress
normal competition on the spot markets."
This Court has repeatedly held that concerted action
to eliminate abuses which distort the normal play of competition is not to be condemned merely because the purpose or effect of the agreement may be to stabilize or
raise prices. United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221
U. S. 106; United States v. Union Pacific Railroad Co.,
226 U. S. 61; Nash v. United States, 299 U. S. 373, 376;

160

OCTOBER TERM,- 1939.
Argument for Defendants.

310 U. S.

American Column & Lumber Co. v. United States, 257
U. S. 377; Charles A. Ramsay Co. v. Associated Bill Posters, 260 U. S. 501; StandardOil Co. v. United States, 221
U. S. 1; Maple Flooring ManufacturersAssn. v. United
States, 268 U. S. 563; Cement ManufacturersProtective
Assn. v. United States, 268 U. S. 588, 603, 604; Chicago
Board of Trade v. United States, 246 U. S. 231, 238; Window Glass Mfrs. Assn. v. United States,263 U. S. 403, 413;
StandardOil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 163, 175, 179;
AppalachianCoals v. United States, 288 U. S. 344.
This Court has held that the legality of a combination
such as is here presented can be determined only in the
light of evidence showing "the facts peculiar to the business to which the restraint is applied; its condition before
and after the restraint was imposed; the nature of the restraint, and its effect, actual or probable. The history of
the restraint, the evil believed o exist, the reason for
adopting the particular remedy, the purpose or end sought
to be attained . . ." Chicago Board of Trade v. United
States, 246. U. S. 231, 238.
The trial court in this case erred repeatedly in excluding
evidence offered by the respondents which was clearly
relevant under the above rule. In many. cases the evidence was necessary to show the background of the industry and the reasons for the respondents' acts. In others it
bore directly upon the question of what was their purpose. , In others it tended to prove that the price of gasoline was not, as alleged by the Government, arbitrary and
noncompetitive during the indictment period. Im many
instances the evidence should have been submitted to the
jury not only as direct proof of the matters in question,
but in order to rebut inferences which the Government
sought to draw from fragmentary evidence.
The Government concedes that "there was a wealth of
evidence from which opposing factual inferences could be
drawn." Under these circumstances it was imperative

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Argument for Defendants.

that the jury have before it all of the surrounding facts
and circumstances upon which the proper inferences
depended.
The trial court committed reve-sible error in using and
permitting Government counsel to use alleged transcripts
of testimony before the grand jury in the examination of
important witnesses. The witnesses upon whom the
Government principally relied to establish its case were
employees of various of the respondents. Government
counsel endeavored consistently throughout the trial, by

reading from and referring to certain "alleged grand jury
minutes," to persuade the jury that these witnesses.were
under-pressure to avoid incriminating their employers.
This persistent effort had a threefold purpose and effect:
(1) to magnify the significance of any testimony of these
witnesses detrimental to the defendants; (2) to suggest
the existence of additional facts not covered by any testimony and even more detrimental to the defendants; and
(3) to prejudice the respondents by persuading the jury
that they would suborn perjury to avoid discovery of their
alleged unlawful acts.
The court erroneously denied respondents the right to
inspect the alleged transcripts of testimony before the
grand jury to determine the accuracy of the alleged quotatioiis and the statements of Government counsel with

respect thereto.
The court erroneously permitted Government counsel
to read from alleged grand jury testimony and from notes
alleged to have been made from grand jury testimony
which were not properly authenticated nor their accuracy
sufficiently established.
The court repeatedly read and permitted Government
counsel to read from the alleged transcripts of testimony
before the grand jury under circumstances which undoubtedly led the jury to conclude that such alleged grand jury
testimony was affirmative evidence in the case. In some

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument .for Defendants.

310 U. S.

instances it can be shown from-the record that statements
so read from the alleged transcripts were not true.
The court repeatedly permitted Government counsel to
read-in -the presence of the jury alleged grand jury testimony- for the purported purpose of refreshing the witness's :recollection, although it appeared from the record
that such alleged testimony was not given contemporaneously with the occurrence to which it related.
In their closings to the jury, Government counsel made
arguments which plainly constituted -appeals to passion
and class distinction, all tending to induce the jury to
disregard the record evidenced and to base their verdict
upon such improper appeals.
.In addition Government counsel, for the purpose of
demonstrating to the jury that the efitire testimony of a
key witness for the respondents was unworthy of belief,
resorted to assertions, of personal knowledge which not
only were not supported by the record, but were not
correct.
The granting of motions for new trials ta non-appealing
defendants required the granting of similar motions to
respondents..
The possession of the power to raise or affect market
prices arbitrarily was a fundamental issue, in this case.
By their verdict of January 22, 1938, the jury found
that 16 corporations and 30 individuals had conspired, as
charged, and that they collectively possessed the power to
execute the conspiracy. Thereafter, on July 19, 1938, the
court discharged one corporation and 10 individuals and
granted new trials to 3 corporations and 15 individuals.
One of the corporations granted a new trial, Standard of
Indiana, alone possessed such power as would make it impossible for any group to raise prices in the Midwestern
area without its agreement and cooperation.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Argument for Defendants.

It follows that the fundamental issue of whether the respondents possessed the power to raise or affect- prices
arbitrarily, never received the consideration of the jury.
The jury's finding that the entire group possessed such
power by no means carried the implication that, if permitted, the jury would likewise have found that respondents, acting alone, possessed such power. Moreover, the
error can not be cured by pointing to some evidence which
would have supported such a finding, if made' There
must be a jury finding, not a finding by the court, upon
this issue.
There was a fatal variance between the allegations of
the indictment and the proof. The Government failed
completely to establish the allegation that the respondents (1) bought gasoline at prices higher than those paid
by jobbers in the competitive spot market, and (2)
fraudulently misrepresented and published such prices in
the market ournal quotations as prices paid by jobbers.
The proof affirmatively showed the contrary.
The record contains no substantial, competent evidence
that the combination either in purpose or effect unreasonably restrained trade within the meaning of the Sherman
Law.
The record shows that for several years prior to the indictment period the distress of the oil industry was so
acute as to call for remedial concerted action. It also
shows that this condition was recognized not only by the
industry, but by the state and federal governments.
There was no dispute as to these facts.
The situation was caused primarily by two abnormal
and destructive competitive practices, resulting in surplus crude oil and surplus gasoline as a distress product.
Faced with these conditions the respondents engaged in
a voluntary codperative effort to remove one of these
competitive evils-distress gasoline. The substance of

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Defendants.

310 U. S.

what was accomplished and agreed upon was that the
major companies would purchase from independent refiners the latter's surplus gasoline at going market prices.
The court below erred as a matter of law in holding
that the reasonableness of the activities of the defendants
was a jury question solely because the plan was "placed
in operation with the results revealed." A plan or agreement which has been put into operation may be as unobjectionable as one which is still executory. In either case
the question on appeal is whether the facts and circumstances are as consistent with the innocence of the
defendants as with their guilt.
The record shows that the only acts done within the
Western District of Wisconsin in this case were (a) the
execution of contracts with jobbers whereunder the price
was determined by reference to the spot tank car market
quotations in the market journals; (b) delivery of gasoline to jobbers under such contracts; and (c) sales to
retail dealers and consumers at prices which were affected
by prices on the spot tank car market.
An overt act must be an act done within the scope of
the agency created by the illegal "partnership" or conspiracy agreement.
There is nothing in the record to show that.the agreement among the' respondents contemplated any restriction upon their freedom in selling gasoline within the
Western District of Wisconsin.
The mere removal of distress gasoline from the competitive market would obviously result in a more normal
price, not because of the absence of competition, but by
reason of it. The undisputed testimony is that this was
all the respondents hoped to accomplish, and the record
shows that in fact this was all that resulted.

U. S..v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

165

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondents 1 were convicted by a jury,' 23 F. Supp.
937, under an indictment charging violations of § 1 of
the Sherman Anti-Trust Act,- 26 Stat. 209; 50 Stat. 693.
The indictment charged 27 corporations and 56 individuals with
violations of § 1 of the Sherman Law. There were brought to trial
26 corporations and 46 individuals. Prior to submission of the case
to the jury the court discharged, directed verdicts of acquittal, or
dismissed the indictment as to 10 of the corporations and 16 of the
individuals. The jury returned verdicts of guilty as to th7 remaining 16 corporations and 30 individuals. Thereafter the trial court
ordered new trials as to 3 corporations and 15 individuals and granted
judgment non obstante veredidto to one other corporation and 10
other individuals. United States v. Stone, 308 U. S. 519. For the
opinions of the District Court on that phase of the case, see 23 F.
Supp. 937, 938-939; 24 F. Supp. 575; and for the opinion of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, 101 F. 2d 870.
The respondents are the remaining 12 corporations and 5 individuals, viz., Socony-Vacuum Oil Company, Inc., Wadhams Oil Company, Empire Oil and Refining Company, Continental Oil Company,
The Pure Oil Company, Shell Petroleum Corporation, Sinclair Refining Company, Mid-Continent Petroleum Corporation, Phillips Petroleum Company, Skelly Oil Company, The Globe Oil & Refining
Company (Oklahoma), The Globe Oil & Refining Company (Illinois), C. E. Arnott, vice president of Socony-Vacuum, H. T. Ashton,
manager of Lubrite Division of Socony-Vacuum, R. H. McElroy, Jr.,
tank-car sales manager of Pure Oil, P. E. Lakin, general manager of
sales of Shell, R. W. McDowell, vice president in charge of sales of
Mid-Continent.
'Each of the corporations was fined $5,000; each individual, $1,000.
'Sec. 1 provides:
"Every contract, combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or
conspiracy, in restraint of trade or -commerce among the several
States, or with foreign nations, is hereby declared to be illegal: . . .
Every person who shall make any contract or engage in .any combination or conspiracy hereby declared to be illegal shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine not exceeding $5,000, or by imprisonment not exceeding
one year, or by both said punishments, in the discretion of the court."

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed and remanded for
a new trial. 105 F. 2d 809. The case is here on a petition and cross-petition for certiorari, both of which we
granted because of the public importance of the issues
raised. 308 U. S. 540.
I. The Indictment.
The indictment was returned in December 1936 in the
United States District Court for the Western District of
Wisconsin. It charges that certain major oil companies,"
selling gasoline in the Mid-Western area 5 (which includes the Western District of Wisconsin), (1) "combined and conspired together for.the purpose of artificially
raising 'and fixing the tank car prices of gasoline" in the
"spot markets" in the East Texas' and Mid-Continent '
fields; (2) "have artificially raised and fixed said spot
market tank car prices of gasoline and have maintained
said prices at artificially high and non-competitive levels,
and at levels agreed upon among them and have thereby
intentionally increased and fixed the tank. car prices of
gasoline contracted to be sold and sold in interstate commerce as aforesaid in the Mid-Western area"; (3) "have
arbitrarily," by reason of the provisions of the prevailing
form of jobber contracts which made the price to the jobber dependent on the average spot market price, "exacted
large sums of money from thousands of jobbers with
'The major oil cpmpanies, in the main, engage in every branch of
the business--owning and operating oil wells, pipe-lines, refineries,
bulk storage plants, and service stations. Those engaging in all such
branches are major integrated oil companies; those lacking facilities
for one or more of those branches are semi-integrated. "Independent refiners" describes companies engaged -exclusively in refining.
'Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri,
North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wisconsin.
'Located in the north, eastern part of Texas.
'fDescribed as including Oklahoma, the northern and western portions of Texas, the southern and eastern portions of Kansas, the
southern portion of Arkansas, the northern portion of Louisiana.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

whom they have had such contracts in said Mid-Western
area"; and (4) "in turn have intentionally raised the
general level of retail prices prevailing in said Mid-Western area."
The manner and means of effectuating such conspiracy are alleged in substance as follows: Defendants, from
February 1935. to December 1936 '"have knowingly and
unlawfully engaged and participated in 'two concerted
gasoline buying programs" for the purchase "from independent refiners in spot transactions of large quantities
of gasoline in the East Texas and Mid-Continent fields at
uniform, high, and at times progressively increased
prices." The East Texas .buying program is alleged to
have embraced purchases of gasoline in-spot transactions
from most of the independent refiners in the :East Texas
field, who were members of the East Texas Refiners'
Marketing Association, formed in February 1935 with the
knowledge and approval of some of the defendants "for
the purpose of selling and facilitating the sale of gasoline to defendant major oil companies." It is alleged that
arrangements were made and carried out for allotting
orders for gasoline received from defendants among the
members of that association; and that such purchases
amounted to more than 50% of all gasoline produced by
those independent refiners. The Mid-Continent buying
program is alleged to have included "large and increased
purchases of gasoline" by defendants from independent
refiners located in the Mid-Continent fields pursuant to
allotments among themselves. Those purchases, it is
charged, were made from independent refiners who were
assigned to certain of the defendants at monthly meetings
of a group representing defendaaxts. It is alleged that the
purchases in this buying program amounted to nearly
50% of all gasoline sold by those independents. As respects both the East Texas and the Mid-Continent buying
programs, it is alleged that the purchases of gasoline were
in excess of the amounts which defendants would have

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

purchased but for those programs; that at the instance
of certain defendants these independent refiners curtailed
their production of gasoline.
The independent refiners selling in these programs
were named as co-conspirators, but not as defendants.
Certain market journals-Chicago Journal of Commerce, Platt's Oilgram, National Petroleum News--were
made defendants.' Their participation in the conspiracy
is alleged as follows: that they have been "the chief
agencies and instrumentalities" through which the wrongfully raised prices "have affected the prices paid by jobbers, retail dealers, and consumers for gasoline in the
Mid-Western area," that they "knowingly published and
circulated as such price quotations the wrongfully and
artificially raised and fixed prices for gasoline paid by"
defendants in these buying programs, while "representing
the price quotations published by them" to be gasoline
prices "prevailing in spot sales to jobbers in tank car
*lots" and while "knowing and intending them to be relied
on as such by jobbers and to be made the basis of prices
to jobbers."
Jurisdictionand venue in the Western District of Wisconsin are alleged as follows: that most of defendant
major oil companies have sold large quantities of gasoline
in tank car lots to jobbers in that district at the "artificially raised and fixed and non-competitive prices"; that
they have "solicited and taken contracts and orders" for
'Two individuals connected with those journals were also made
defendants. One of the individuals was not brought to trial. At
the close of the government's case the indictment was dismissed, on
motion of the government, as against the other four trade journal

defendants.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

gasoline in that district; and that they have required
retail dealers and consumers therein "to pay artificially
increased prices for gasoline" pursuant to the conspiracy.
The methods of marketing and selling gasoline in the
Mid-Western area are set forth in the indictment in some
detail. Since we hereafter develop the facts concerning
them, it will suffice at this point to summarize them
briefly. Each defendant major oil company owns, operates or leases retail service stations in this area. It supplies those stations, as well as independent retail stations,
with gasoline from its bulk storage plants: All but one
selllarge quantities of gasoline to jobbers in tank car lots
under term contracts. In. this area these jobbers exceed
4,000 in number and distribute about 50% of all gasoline
distributed to retail service stations therein, the bulk of
the jobbers' purchases being made from the defendant
companies. The price" to the jobbers under those contracts with defendant companies is made dependent on
the spot market price, pursuant to a formula hereinafter
discussed. And the spot market tank car prices of gasoline directly and substantially influbnce the retail prices
in the area. In sum, it is alleged that defendants by
raising and fixing the tank car prices of gasoline in these
spot markets could and did increase the tank car prices
and the retail pricet of gasoline sold in the Mid-Western
area. The vulnerability of these spot, markets to that
type of manipulation or stabilization is emphasized by
the allegation that spot market prices published in the
journals were the result of spot sales made chiefly by independent refiners of a relatively small amount of the gasoline sold in that area-virtually all gasoline sold in tank
car quantities in spot market transactions in the Mid-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

Western area being sold by independent refiners, such
sales amounting to less than 5% of all gasoline marketed
therein.
So much for the indictment.
II. Background of the Alleged Conspiracy."
Evidence was introduced (or respondents made offers
of proof) showing or tending to show the following conditions preceding the commencement of the alleged conspiracy in February 1935. As we shall develop later,
these facts were in-the main relevant to certain defenses
which respondents at the trial unsuccessfully sought to
interpose to the indictment.
Beginning about 1926 there commenced
a period of
production of crude oil in such quantities as seriously to
affect ciude oil and gasoline markets throughout the
United States. Overproduction was wasteful, reduced the
productive- capacity of the oil fields and drove the price
of oil down to levels below the cost of production from
pumping and stripper' wells. When the price falls below
such cost, those wells must be abandoned. Once abandoned, subsurface changes make it difficult or impossible
to bring those wells back into production. Since such
wells constitute about 40% of the country's known oil
reserves, conservation requires that the price of crude oil
be maintained at a level which will permiv such wells to
be operated. As Oklahoma and Kansas were attempting
to remedy the situation through their proration laws,
the largest oil field in -history was discovered in East
Texas. That was in 1930. The supply of oil from this
'Described by one witness as "wells that have gotten down to less
than 5 barrels a day, and in some caes down to less than a barrel a
day, so that they only have to be pumped, sometimes, an hour or
two a day to get all the oil they will produce at that stage of the
game."

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

171

Opinion of ihe Court.

field was so great that at one time crude oil sank to 10
or 15 cents a barrel, and gasoline was sold in the East
Texas field for 21/0 a gallon. Enforcement by Texas of
its proration law was extremely difficult. Orders restricting production were violated, the oil unlawfully produced
being known as "hot oil" and the gasoline manufactured
therefrom, "hot gasoline." Hot oil sold for substantially
lower prices than those posted for legal oil. Hot gasoline
therefore cost less and at times could be sold for less than
it cost to manufacture legal gasoline. The latter, deprived of its normal outlets, had to be sold at distress
prices. The condition of many independent refiners using
legal crude oil was precarious. In spite of their unprofitable operations they could not afford to shut down, for
if they did so they would be apt to lose their oil connections in the field and their regular customers. Having
little storage capacity they had to sell their gasoline as
fast as they made it. As a result their gasoline became
"distress" gasoline-gasoline which the refiner could not
store, for which he had no regular sales outlets and which
therefore he had to sell for whatever price it would bring.
Such sales drove the market down.
In the spring of 1933 conditions were acute. The
wholesale market Was below the cost of manufacture.
As the market became flooded with cheap gasoline, gasoline was dumped at whatever price it would bring. On
June 1, 1933, the price of crude oil was 250 a barrel; the
tank car price of regular gasoline was 2%¢ a gallon. In
June 1933 Congress passed the National Industrial Recovery Act (48 Stat. 195). Sec 9 (c) of that Act authorized the President to forbid the interstate and foreign
shipment of petroleum and its products produced or withdrawn from storage in violation of state laws. By Executive Order the President on July 11, 1933, forbade such
shipments. On August 19, 1933, a code of fair comreti-

OCTOBER TERM. 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

tion for the petroleum industry was approved.10 The
Secretary of the Interior was designated as Administrator
of that Code. He established a Petroleum Administrative
Board to "advise with and make recommendations" to
him. A Planning and Coordination Committee was appointed, of which respondent Charles E. Arnott, a vicepresident of Socony-Vacuum, was a member, to aid in the
administration of the Code. In addressing that Committee in the fall of 1933 the Administrator said: "Our
task is to stabilize the oil industry upon a profitable
basis." Considerable progress was made. The price of
crude oil was a dollar a barrel near the end of September1
1933, as a result of the voluntary action of the industry,
but, according to respondents, in accordance with the
Administrator's policy and desire. In April 1934 an
amendment to the Code was adopted under which an
attempt was made to balance the supply of gasoline with
the demand by allocating the amount of crude oil which
each refiner could process with the view of creating a
firmer condition in the market and thus increasing the
"It provided for maximum hours of work and minimum rates of
pay; forbade sales below cost; required integrated companies to conduct each branch of their business on a profitable basis; established,
within certain limits, the parity'between the price of a barrel of crude
oil and a gallon of refined gasoline as 18.5 to 1; and authorized the
fixing of certain minimum prices.
"An order of the Administrator fixing minimum prices never became effective. Respondents also made an offer of proof that the
Petroleum Administrative Board endeavored, in the fall of 1933, to
obtain voluntary action by the larger companies to acquire and hold
large stocks of crude oil, said to be overhanging the market and in
danger of depressing the price of refined gasoline. The offer of proof
indicated that some purchases had been made but did not show the
extent. Respondents offered to show, through testimony of the
chairman of the Planning & Coordination Committee, that it was the
desire of the Administrator that crude oil not fall below $1 a barrel.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

price of gasoline. 2 This amendment also authorized the
Planning and Coordination Committee, with the approval of the President, to make suitable arrangements
for the purchase of gasoline from non-integrated or
semi-integrated refiners and the resale of the same
through orderly channels. Thereafter four buying
These
programs were approved by the Administrator.
permitted the major companies to purchase distress gasoline from the independent refiners. Standard forms of
contract were provided. The evil aimed at was, in part
at least, the production of hot oil and hot gasoline. The
contracts (to at least one of which the Administrator
was a party) were made pursuant to the provisions of the
National Industrial Recovery Act and the Code and
bound the purchasing company to buy fixed amounts of
gasoline at designated prices 1 on condition that the seller
The testimony of one of respondents' witnesses was that this policy caused the'major companies to buy gasoline-in the main from
small, non-integrated refiners.
June 23, 1934; August 13, 1934; September 8, 1934; November
2, 1934. They apparently were short-lived, their legality having
been questioned by the Department of Justice. Late in 1933 the
industry proposed the formation of a National Petroleum Agency, of
which twenty-three of the larger companies, including most of the
corporate respondents, were to be members, "to purchase, hold and,
in an orderly way, dispose of surplus gasoline which threatens the
stability of the oil price structure." Subscriptions for a pool of
nearly $9,000,000 were obtained. The plan was never put into operation. In May 1934 there was another voluntary plan (which was
abortive), the Planning & Coordination Committee addressed a resolution to certain major companies calling upon each to purchase an
amount of gasoline in May equal to 3% of their sales.
"Under the November 2, 1934 program the contract provided
that the price to be'paid for the gasoline purchased should increase
1/40 per gallon with each 50 per barrel increase in the posted price of
crude oil and should decrease 1/0 per gallon with each 50 per barrel
decrease in crude.

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

should abide by the provisioris of the Code. According
to the 1935 Annual Report of the Secretary of the Interior, thesebuying programs Were not successful as "the
production of gasoline from 'hot oil' continued, stocks of
gasoline mounted, wholesale prices for gasoline remained
below parity with crude-oil prices, and in the early fall of
1934 the industry approached a serious collapse of the
wholesale market."15 Restoration of the price of gasoline
to parity with crude oil at one dollar per barrel was not
realized.
The flow- of hot oil out of East Texas continued. Refiners in the field could procure such oil for 350 or less a
barrel and manufacture gasoline from it for 2 or 21/20 a
gallon. This competition of the cheap hot gasoline drove
the price of legal gasoline down below the cost of production. The problem of distress gasoline also persisted.
The disparity between the price of gasoline and the cost
of crude oil which had been at $1 per barrel since September 1933 caused losses to many independent refiners,
no matter how efficient they were. In October. 1934 the
Administrator set up a Federal Tender Board and issued
an order making it illegal to ship crude oil or gasoline
out of East Texas in interstate or foreign commerce unless it. were accompanied by a tender issued by that Board
certifying that it had been legally produced or manufactured. Prices rose sharply. But the improvement was
only temporary as the enforcement of § 9 (c) of the Act
was enjoined in a number of suits. On January 7, 1935,
this Court held § 9 (c) to be unconstitutional. Panama
Refining Co. v. Ryan, 293 U. S. 388. Following that
decision there was a renewed influx of hot gasoline into
the Mid-Western area and the tank car market fell.
P. 37. Excerpts from this report Awere part of an offer of proof
by respondents.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

Meanwhile the retail markets had b~een swept by a
series of price wars. These price wars affected all markets-service station, tank wagon, and tank car. Early
in 1934 the Petroleum Administrative Board tried to deal
*with them-by negotiating agreements between marketing companies and persuading individual companies to
raise the price level for a period. On July 9, 1934, that
Board asked respondent Arnott, chairman of the Planning and Coordination Committee's Marketing Committee,1" if he would head up a voluntary, coperative movement to deal with price wars. According to Arnott, he
pointed out that in order to stabilize the retail market it
was necessary to stabilize the tank. car market through
elimination of hot oil and distress gasoline."' On July 20,
1934, the Administrator wrote Arnott, described the disturbance caused by price wars and said:
"Under Article VII, Section 3 of the Code it is the
duty of the Planning and Coordihation Committee to cooperate with the Administration as a planning and fair
practice agency for the industry. I am, therefore, requesting you, as Chairman of the Marketing Committee
of the Planning and Coordination Committee, to take
action which we deem necessary to restore markets to
their normal conditions in areas where wasteful competition has caused them to become depressed. The number
and extent of these situations would make it impractical
for the Petroleum Administrative .Board acting alone to
deal with each specific situation. Therefore, I am re"The-Marketing Committee had an extensive organization of regional, state, local, or temporary committees, scattered throughout
the country and representative of the various marketing elements in
the industry.
'He
also testified that the Board said that it could not tell him
how to deal with the price wars but that it would authorize him to
deal with "the elements [of] that conflict that cause them."

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of -the Court.

310 U. S.

questing and authorizing you, as Chairman of the Marketing Committee, to designate committees for each locality when and as price wars develop, with authority to
confer and to negotiate and to hold due public hearings
with a view to ascertaining the elements of conflict that
are present, and in a cooperative manner to stabilize tlhe
-price level to conform to that-normally prevailing. in contiguous areas where marketing .conditions are similar.
Any activities of your Committee must, of course, be
consistent with the requirements of Clause 2 of Sub-section (a) of Section III of the Act, . . 8
'Sec. 3 (a) of the Act read:
"Upon the application to the President by one or more trade or
industrial associations or groups, the President may approve a code
or codes of fair competition for the trade or industry or subdivision
thereof, represented by the applicant, or applicants, if the President
finds (1) that such associations or groups impose no inequitable restrictions on admission to membership therein and are truly representative of such trades or industries or subdivisions thereof, and
(2) that such code or codes are not designed to promote monopolies
or to eliminate or oppress small enterprises and will not operate to
discriminate against them, and will tend to effectuate the policy of
this title: Provided, That such code or codes shall not permit monopolies or monopolistic practices: Provided further, That where
such code or codes affect the sen-ices and welfare of persons engaged
in other steps of the economic process, nothing in this section shall
deprive such persons of the right to be heard prior to approval by
the President of such code or codes. The President may, as a condition of his approval of any such code, impose such conditions (including requirements for the making of reports and the keeping of
"accounts) for the protection of consumers, competitors, employees,
and others, and in furtherance of the public interest, and may provide such exceptions to and exemptions from the provisions of such
code, as the President in his discretion deems necessary to effectuate
the policy herein declared."
Section 5 provided:
"While this title is in effect (or in the case of a license, while section 4 (a) is in effect) and for sixty days thereafter, any code, agree-

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

After receiving that letter Arnott appointed a General
Stabilization Committee with headquarters in Washington and a regional chairman in each region. Over fifty
state and local committees were set up. The Petroleum
Administrative -Board worked closely with Arnott and
the committees until the end of the Code near the middle
of 1935. The effort (first local, then state-wide, and
finally regional) was to eliminate price wars by negotiation and by persuading suppliers to see to it that those
who bought from them sold at a fair price. In the first
week of December 1934, Arnott held a meeting of the
General Stabilization Committee in Chicago and a series
of meetings on the next four or five days attended by
hundreds of members of the industry from the middle
west. These meetings were said to have been highly successful in elimination of many price wars. Arnott reported the results to members of the Petroleum Administrative Board on December 18, 1934, and stated that
he was going to have a follow-up meeting in the near
future. It was at that next meeting that the groundwork for the alleged conspiracy was laid.
III. The Alleged Conspiracy.
The alleged conspiracy is not to be found in any formal
contract or agreement. It is to be pieced together from
the testimony of many witnesses and the contents of
over 1,000 exhibits, extending through the 3,900 printed
pages of the record. What follows is based almost entirely on unequivocal testimony or undisputed contents
of exhibits, only occasionally on the irresistible inferences
from those facts.
ment, or license approved, prescribed, or issued and in effect under
this title, and any action complying with the provisions thereof taken

during such period, shall be exempt from the provisions of the antitrust laws of the United States."

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

1
310 U.S.

A. FORMATION OF THE MID-CONTINENT BUYING PROGRAM.

The next meeting of the General Stabilization Committee was held in Chicago on January 4, 1935, and was
attended by all of the individual respondents, by representatives of the corporate respondents, and by others.
Represe ntatives of independent refiners, present at the
meeting, complained of the failure of the price of refined
gasoline to reach a parity with the crude oil price of $1
a barrel. -And complaints by the independents of the
depressing effect on the market of hot and distress gasoline were reported. Views were expressed to the effect
that "if we were going to have general stabilization in
retail markets, we must have some sort of a firm market
in the tank car market." As a result of the discussion
Arnott appointed a Tank Car Stabilization Committee"
to study the situation and make a report, or, to 'use the
language of one of those present, "to consider ways and
means of establishing and maintaining an active and
strong tank car market on gasoline." Three days after
this committee was appointed, this Court decided
Panama Refining Co.v. Ryan, supra. As we have said,
there was evidence that following that decision there
was a renewed influx of hot gasoline into the Mid-Western
area with a consequent falling off of the tank car market
prices.
The first meeting of the Tank Car Committee was held
February 5, 1935, and the. second on February- 11, 1935.
At these meetings the alleged conspiracy was formed, the
substance of which, so far as it pertained to the MidContinent phase, was as follows:
It was estimated that there would be between 600 and
700 tank cars of distress gasoline produced in the Mid"This committee eventually was composed of respondents McDowell, Ashton and Lakin and five former defendants, who were
either discharged or granted new trials.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

Continent oil field every month by about 17 independent
refiners.

These refiners, not having regular outlets for

the gasoline, would be unabl6 to dispose of it except at
distress prices. Accordingly, it was proposed and decided
that certain major companies (including the corporate respondents) would purchase gasoline from these refiners.

The Committee would assemble each month information
as to the quantity and location of this distress gasoline.
Each of the major companies was to select one (or more)
of the independent refiners having distress gasoline as its
"dancing partner," 20 and would assume responsibility for
purchasing its distress supply.

In this manner buying

power would be coirdinated, purchases would be effectively placed, and the results would be much superior to
the previous haphazard purchasing. There were to be
no formal contractual commitments to purchase this gasoline, either between the major companies or between the
majors and the independents. Rather it was in informal
gentlemen's agreement or understanding whereby each

undertook to perform his share of the joint undertaking.
Respondent R. W. McDowell, a vice president of Mid-Continent,
testified as follows respecting the origin and meaning of this term:
"The phrase 'dancing partners' came up right therQ after Mr. Asb
ton had gone around the room. There were these 7 or 8 small refiners whom no one had mentioned. He said this situation reminded
him of the dances that he used to go to when he was a young fellow.
He said, 'Here we are at a great economic ball.' He said, 'We have
these major companies who have to buy gasoline and are buying
gasoline, and they are the strong dancers.' And he said, 'They have
asked certain people to dance with them. They are he better known
independent refiners.' He said, 'Here are 7 or 8 that no one seems
to know.' He said, 'They remind me of the wallflowers that always
used to be present at those old country dances.' He said, 'I think it
is going to be one of the jobs of this Committee to introduce some of
these wallflowers to some of the strong dancers, so that everybody
can dance.' And from that simile, or whatever you want to call it,
the term 'dancing partner' arose."

OCTOBER TERM. 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

Purchases were to be made at the, !"fair going market
price.",
A Mechanical Sub-Committee2 1 was appointed to find
purchasers for any new distress gasoline which might
appear between the monthly meetings of the Tank Car
Stabilization Committee and to handle detailed problems
arsing during these periods. It was agreed that any
such attempt to stabilize the tank car market was hopeless until the flow of hot gasoline was stopped. But it
was expected that a bill pending before Congress to prohibit interstate shipment of hot gasoline would soon be
enacted which would deal effectively with that problem.
Accordingly, it was decided not to put any program into
operation until this bill had been enacted and .became
operative. It was left to respondent Arnott to-give the
signal for putting the program into operation after this
had occurred.
..
The Connally Act (49 Stat. 30) became law on February 22, 1935. The enforcement agency under this Act
was the Federal Tender Board which was appointed about
March 1st. It issued its first tenders March 4th. On
March 1st respondents Arnott and Ashton explained the
buying program to a group of Mid-Continent independent refiners in Kansas City, who expressed a desire to
co6perate and who appointed a committee to attend a
meeting of the Tank Car Stabilization Committee in St.
Louis on March 5th to learn more about the details.
This meeting was held with the committee of the independents present at one of the sessions. At a later session that day the final details of the Mid-Continent buying program were worked out, including an assignment
= This was a committee of three of which respondent McDowell
was chairman.

U. S. v. SOCO'L\Y-VACUUM' OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

of the "dancing partners" among the major. companies.22
On March 6th Ashton telephoned Arnott and told him
what had been accomplished at the St. Louis meeting.
Later the same day Arnott told Ashton by telephone
that the program should be put into operation as soon
as possible, since the Federal Tender Board seemed to
be cleaning up the hot oil situation in East Texas. Ashton advised McDowell, chairman of the Mechanical SubCommittee, of Arnott's instructions. And on March 7th
that committee went into action. They' divided up the
major companies; each communicated with those on his
list, advised them that the program was launched, and
suggested that they get in touch with their respective
"dancing partners:" Before the month was out all companies alleged to have participated in the program (except one or two) made purchases; 757 tank cars were
bought from all but three of the independent refiners who
were named in the indictment as sellers.
B. THE MID-CONTINENT BUYING PROGRAM IN OPERATION.

No specific term for the buying program was decided
upon, beyond the first month. But it was started with the
hope of its continuance from month to month. And in
fact it did go on for over a year, as we shall see.
The concerted aotion under this program took the
following form:
The Tank Car Stabilization Committee had A. V.
Bourque, Secretary of the Western Petroleum Refiners'
"The list of the independent refiners having the distress gasoline
was read and the majors made their selections-some on the basis of
prior business dealings, some on the. basis of personal friendships,
some because of location, freight advantages, etc.

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Couri.

310 U. S.

Association," make a monthly survey, showing the
amount of distress gasoline which each independent refiner would have during the month. From March 1935
through February 1936 that Committee ;met once. a
month. At these meetings the surveys showing the
amount and location of distress gasolin6 were presented
and discussed. Theyusually revealed that from 600 to
800 tank cars of distress gasoline would become available
during the month. Each member of the Committee
present would indicate how much his company wduld buy
and from whom. Those companies which were not represented at the meetings were approached by the Mechanical Sub-Committee; "word was gotten to them as to the
amount of gasoline that it was felt they could take in
that month." Also, as we have stated, the Mechanical
Sub-Committee would endeavor to find purchasers for
any new distress gasoline which appeared between the
meetings of the Tank Car Stabilization Committee.. It
would report such new surpluses to Bourque. The functions of the Mechanical Sub-Committee were apparently
not restricted merely to dissemination of information to
the buyers. One of its members testified that he urged
the majors to buy more distress gasoline. Throughout,
persuasion was apparently used to theend that all distress gasoline would be taken by the majors and so kept
from the tank car markets. As the program progressed,
most of the major companies continued to buy -from the
same "dancing partners" with whom they had started.
One of the tasks of the Mechanical Sub-Committee
was to keep itself informed as to the current prices of
SPractically all of the independent refiners named in the indictment were members of this Association. C. M. Boggs, the president
of the Association, and A. V. Bourque, its secretary, were named in
the indictment as defendants. As to the former, a motion for directed verdict of acquittal was granted; as to the latter, the verdict
of the jury was set aside and the indictment dismissed.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUMI
150

OIL CO.

Opinion of the Court.

gasoline and to use its persuasion and influence to see
to it that the majors paid a fair going market price and
did not "chisel" on the small refiners. It did so. At its
meetings during the spring of 1935 the question of the

fair going market price was discussed. For example,
Jacobi, a member of the Sub-Committee, testified that
at the meeting of March 14, 1935, "the subcommittee
. . . arrived at what we thought was a fair market price
for the week following," viz. 3340 and 43/40.2 Jacobi
termed these prices arrived at by the Sub-Committee as
the "recommended prices." He made it a practice of
recommending these prices to the major companies with
which he communicated. According to his testimony,
those "recommendations" were represented by him to be
not the Sub-Committee's but his own idea. McDowell
testified that he never made any such price recommendations but if asked would tell the purchasing companies
what his own company was paying for gasoline.25 Up to
June 7, 1935, price "recommendations" were made five or
seven times, each time the "recommended" prices constituting a price advance of 1/0 or 1/ over the previous
"recommendation." No more price "recommendations"
were made in 1935. In January 1936 there was an advance in the price of crude oil. The members of the SubCommittee discussed the price situation and concluded
that an advance of 1/2 a gallon of gasoline purchased
under the program should be made. Jacobi made that
"recommendation" tb the companies on his list.
"On March 15, 1935, Jacobi in a letter to his superiors wrote:
"The writer has been busy this week on tank car stabilization work,
and thus far results are gratifying. Our Committee decided on a
price of 33/40 for third. grade, and 43/40 for 'Q,' for next week. Purchasing companies, including our own units, are paying these prices
today." "Q" gasoline is regular gasoline with an octane rating of

68-70.
'What the practice of the other member of the Mechanical SubCommittee was in this respect does not appear.

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

We shall discuss later the effect of this buying program
on the market.
The major companies regularly reported to Bourque,
the trade association representative of the Mid-Continent
independent refiners, the volume of their purchases under
the program and the prices paid. Representatives of one
of the corporate respondents repeatedly characterized its
purchases under the program as "quotas," "obligations,"
or "allocations." They spoke of one of its "dancing partners". under the buying program as "one of the babies
placed in our lap last spring when this thing was inaugurated." And they stated that "we don't have much
choice as to whose material we are to take, when we purchase outside third grade gasoline in connection with the
Buying Program Committee's operations. On such purchases, we have refineries 'assigned' to us." This was
doubtless laymen's, not lawyers', language. As we have
said, there does not appear to have been any binding
commitment to purchase; the plan was wholly voluntary; there is nothing in the record to indicate that a
participant would be penalized for failure to co~perate.
But though the arrangemerit was informal, it was nonetheless effective, as we shall see. And, as stated by the
Circtit Court of Appeals, there did appear to be at least
a moral obligation to purchase the amounts specified at
the.fair market prices "recommended." That alone would
seem to explain why some of the major companies cancelled or declined to enter into profitable deals for the
exchange of gasoline with other companies in order to
participate in this buying program. Respondent Skelly
Oil Co. apparently lost at least some of its pipe-line
transportation profit of 360 a gallon "on every car of
gasoline" purchased by it in the buying program. And
both that company and respondent Wadhams Oil Co.
continued to make purchases of gasoline under the program although they were unable then to dispose of it.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUTM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

Up to June 1935, the expenses incurred by the members of the Mechanical Sub-Committee were charged to
and paid by the Planning and Coordination Committee
of the Code of Fair Competition for the Petroleum Industry. On May 27, 1935, this Court held in Schechter
Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495, that the
code-making authority conferred by the National Industrial Recovery Act was an unconstitutional delegation of
legislative power. Shortly thereafter the Tank Car
Stabilization Committee held a meeting to discuss their
future course of action. It was decided that the buying
program should continue. Accordingly, that Committee
continued to meet each month through February 1936.
The procedure at these meetings was essentially the same
as at the earlier ones. Gradually the buying program
worked almost automatically, as contacts between buyer
and seller became well established. The Mechanical
Sub-Committee met at irregular intervals until December 1935. Thereafter it conducted its work on the
telephone.
C. FORMATION AND NATURE OF THE EAST TEXAS BUYING
PROGRAM.

In the meetings when the Mid-Continent buying program was being formulated it was recognized that it
would be necessary or desirable to take the East Texas
surplus gasoline off the market so that it would not be a
"disturbing influence in the Standard of Indiana territory." The reason was that weakness in East Texas spot
market prices might make East Texas gasoline competitive with Mid-Continent gasoline in the Mid-Western
area and thus affect Mid-Continent spot market prices.
The tank car rate on gasoline shipments from the East
Texas field to points in the Mid-Western area was about
1/8¢ a gallon higher than from the Mid-Continent field.
With East Texas spot market prices more than 1/8 a

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

gallon below Mid-Continent spot market prices, there
might well be a resulting depressing effect on the MidContinent spot market prices.2"
E-rily in 1935 the East Texas Refiners' Marketiig
Association was formed-to dispose of the surplus gasoline
manufactured by-the East Texas refiners. The occasion
for the formation of this Association was the stoppage
of the shipment of hot oil and gasoline as a consequence
of a Texas law- enacted in December 1934. As long as
these refiners had operated on cheap hot oil they had
been able to compete for business throughout the Middle
Wdst. If they used legal crude at a dollar a barrel, their
costs would increase. Their shift from a hot oil to a legal
oil basis necessitated a change in their marketing methods.
They were already supplying jobbers and dealers of Texas
with all the gasoline they could u~e. Hence, their problem was to find additional markets for the surplus gasoline which they manufactured from legal crude. The
Association was to act as the sales agency for those surpluses. Shipments north would be against the freight
differential. Therefore, without regular outlets for this
surplus gasoline they would have been forced to dump
it on the market at distress prices. Their plan was to
persuade the major companies if possible to buy more
East Texas gasoline and to purchase it through the Association which would allocate it among its members who
had surpluses. Neil Buckley, a buyer for Cities Service
Arnott was reported as saying: "East Texas has been a menace
to not only the Eastern Seaboard, but its gasoline also has found its
way up into the Mid-Continent and has been competitive with the
so-called Mid-Continent suppliers' or refiners' gasoline."
The normal market for gasoline refined in East Texas was the
State of Texas and the Atlantic Sehboard, reached through tanker
shipments from Gulf 'ports.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

Export C6rporation in Tulsa, was recommended by one
of the independents as the contact man. Bucldey undertook the job.2'
Thus it was not established that the major companies
caused the Association to be formed. But it is clear that
the services of the Association were utilized in connection
with a buying program by defendant companies. The
record is quite voluminous on the activities of Buckley
in getting the support of the majors to the Association's
program. Suffice it to say that he encountered many
difficulties, most of them due to the suspicion and mistrust
of the majors as a result of the earlier hot oil record of
the East Texas independents. His initial task was'-to
convince the majors of the good faith of the East Texas
independents. Many conferences were had. Arnott gave
help to Buckley. Thus, on March 1, 1935, Arnott wired
a small group of representatives of major companies, *ho
were buyers and users of East Texas gasoline, inviting
them to attend a meeting in New York City on March
6th "to hear outcome my meeting with East Texas refiners and to consider future action surplus gasoline this
and other groups that is awaiting our 'decision .

.

. mat-

ter of extreme importance." The problem was discussed
at that meeting2 but reliable information was lacking
as to the probable amount of distress gasoline, the size
of the independents' federal allocations and whether or
not such gasoline was going to be manufactured within
' Buckley first secured the approval of his employer. His company, not the Association, paid his salary while he was engaged in
this work; the Association paid his travel and telephone expenses.
"Representatives of respondents Socony-Vacuum, Pure Oil, Sinclair and probably of Shell were present as well as representatives of
other majors. The only individual respondents present were Arnott
and McElroy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Co~irt.

310 U. S.

-those allocations. Accordingly Arnott appointed a committee to attend the meeting of the District Allocators "
on March 13th and to obtain the information. That
information was obtained and a schedule was prepared
showing the probable amount of surplus gasoline in East
Texas .and the Gulf, the names of the regular buyers in
those areas, and the amounts they might take. Arnott,
on March 14th, by telegraph called another meeting in
New York City for the next day, saying "The question
of surplus gasoline which has been under consideration
must be finalized tomorrow." At that meeting someone
(apparently a representative of respondent Sinclair)
"arose with a slip of paper in his hand and stated that
it had been suggested" that each of 12 to 15 major companies "take so much gasoline" from East Texas, "the
amounts being read off as to what each company would
take." Nothing definite was decided at the meeting.
Buckley continued his efforts, talking with Arnott and
representatives of other majors. It is impossible to find
from the record the exact point of crystallization of a
buying program. But it is clear that as a result of Buckley's and Arnott's efforts and of the discussions at the
various meetings various major companies did come into
line and that a concerted buying program was launched.
The correspondence of employees of some of the majors
throughout the period in question is replete with references such as the following: "buying program in East
Texas"; "our allocation of five cars per day"; "a general
buying movement"; "regular weekly purchases from the
East Texas group"; "allocations and purchases" in the
East Texas field; and the like.
They were part of the organization of the Planning & Coordination Committee under the Code. As to allocations under the Code
see infra, pp. 201 et seq.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

In 1935 the East Texas refiners named in the indictment sold 285,592,188 gallons of gasoline. Of this certain defendant companies SObought 40,195,754 gallons or
14.07%. In the same year all independent refiners in
Eadt Texas sold 378,920,346 gallons-practically all of it
on the spot market. Of this amount those defendant
companies purchased 12.03% or 45,598,453 gallons. Of
the 8,797 tank cars purchased by all defendants (except
Sinclair) from March 1935 through April 1936 from independent refiners in the East Texas field, 2,412 tank cars
were purchased by the present corporate respondents.
Every Monday morning the secretary of the East
Texas association ascertained from each member the
amount of his forthcoming weekly surplus gasoline and
the price he wanted. He used the consensus of opinion
as the asking price. He would call the major companies;
they would call him. He exchanged market information
with them. Orders received for less than the asking
price would not be handled by the Association; rather
the secretary would refer the buyer to one of the independents who might sell at the lower price. Very few
cars were purchased through the Association by others
than the major oil companies. 1 The majors bought
about 7,000 tank cars through the Asssociation in 1935
and about 2,700 tank cars in the first four months of 1936.
And in 1935 the secretary of the Association placed an
additional 1,000 tank cars by bringing the purchasers and
the independent refiners together. The purchases in
1935 in East Texas were, with minor exceptions, either
'Not including, inter alia, Cities Service Export Oil Co., Louisiana
Oil Refining Corp., Tide Water Assoc. Oil Co., The Texas Co., and
Gulf Refining Co., as respects which the indictment had been
dismissed.
' Only three of the corporate respondents purchased through the
Association.

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310U. S.

at the low or slightly below the low quotation in Platt's
Oilgrarn, following it closely as the market rose in March,
April, and May, 1935; they conformed to the market as
it flattened out into more or less of a plateau through the
balance of 1935 with a low for third grade gasoline of
4%0. 'This was consistent with the policy of the buying
program. For the majors were requested to purchase at
the "fair, going market- price." 32 And it is clear that
this East Texas buying program was, as we have said,
supplementary or auxiliary to the Mid-Continent program. As stated in March 1935 in an inter-company
memorandum of one of the ma.jors: ". . . with east coast
refiners having a program to purchase surplus East Texas
gasoline over the next four months, we feel that still
further advances can be made in the iank car market and
a resultant increase in the service station price."
D. SCOPE AND PURPOSE OF THE ALLEGED CONSPIRACY.

As a result -of these buying programs it was hoped and
intended that both the tank car and thb retail'markets
would improve. The conclusion is irresistible that defendants' purpose was not merely to raise the spot market
prices but, as the real and ultimate end, to raise the price
of gasoline in their sales to jobbers and consumers in the
Mid-Western area. Their agreement or plan °embraced
not only buying on the spot markets but also, at least
by clear implication, an understanding to maintain such
improvements in Mid-Western prices as would result from
those purchases of distress gasoline. The latter obviouslywould be achieved by selling at the increased prices, not
An inter-company communication between employees of respondent Pure Oil written in May 1935 stated: "Prices were advanced this

week in both regions to 41/20 and 45/--5%0, in view of some of the
refiners squawldng because our buying was considerably4ower than
the publications."

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

by price cutting. Any other understanding would have
been wholly inconsistent with and contrary to the philosophy of the broad stabilization efforts which were under
way. In essence the raising and maintenance of the spot
market prices were but the means adopted for raising and
maintaining prices to jobbers and consumers. The broad
sweep of the agreement was indicated by Arnott before
a group of the industry on March 13, 1935. He described
the plan as one "whereby this whole stabilization effort
of markets, the holding up of normal sales market structures, the question of the realization of refineries, the
working together of those two great groups in order that
we may balance this whole picture and in order that we
may interest a great many buyers in this so-called surplus
or homeless gasoline, can be done along organized lines.
. .")
Certainly there was enough evidence to support
a finding by the jury that such were the scope and purpose of the plan.
But there was no substantial competent evidence that
defendants, as charged in the indictment, induced the
independent refiners to curtail their production.
E. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION METHODS.

Before discussing the effect of these buying programs,
some description of the methods of marketing and distributing gasoline in the Mid-Western area during the
indictment period is necessary.
The defendant companies sold about 83% of all gasoline sold in the Mid-Western area during 1935.. As we
have noted, major companies, such as most of the defendants, are those whose operations are fully integratedproducing crude oil, having pipe lines for shipment of 'the
crude to its refineries, refining crude oil, and marketing
gasoline at retail and at wholesale. During the greater
part of the indictment period the defendant companies

192

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

owned and operated many retail service stations 31 through
which they sold about 20% of their Mid-Western gasoline
in 1935 and about 12% during the first seven months of
1936. Standard Oil Company (Indiana) s was known
during this period as the price leader or market leader
throughout the Mid-Western area. It was customary for
retail distributors, whether independent or owned or con'trolled by major companies, to follow Standard's posted
retail prices. Its posted retail price in any given place in
the Mid-Western area.was determined by computing the
Mid-Continent spot market price and adding thereto the
tank car freight rate from the Mid-Continent field, taxes
. The 51/20 was the equivalent of the customand 5
service station margin.
ary 20 jobber margin and 3
In this manner the-retail price struciure throughout the
Mid-Western areaduring the indictment period was based
in the main on Mid-Continent spot market quotations,s5
or, as stated by one of the witnesses for. the defendants,
the spot market was a "peg to hang the price structure
on."
About 24% of defendant companies' sales in the MidWestern area in 1935 were to jobbers, who perform the
function of middlemen or wholesalers. Since 1925 jobbers
were purchasing less of their gasoline on the spot tank
car markets and more under long.term supply contracts
from major companies and independent refiners. These
contracts usually ran for a year or more and covered all of
the jobber's gasoline requirements during the period.
The price which the jobber was 'to pay over the life of
the contract was not fixed; but a formula for its cor"It appears that, b egiing in 1935 and increasing in the latter
part of 1936, state chain store legislation resulted in the majors leasing many of their retail service stations.
"A defendant to whom a new trial was granted.
"Further details of Standard's policy in posting retail prices are
discussed, p. 198.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUMI OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

putation was included. About 80% or more of defendant
companies' jobber contracts provided that the price of
gasoline sold thereunder should be the Mid-Continent
spot market price on the date of shipment. This spot
market price was to be determined by averaging the high
and low spot market quotations reported in the Chicago
Journal of Commerce and Platt's Oilgram or by averaging the high and low quotations reported in the Journal alone. The contracts also gave the jobber a wholly
or partially guaranteed margin between the price he had
to pay for the gasoline and the normal price to service
stations--customarily a 20 margin.6
There is no central exchange or market place for spot
market transactions. Each sale is the result of individual bargaining between a refiner and his customers, sales
under long-term contracts not being included. It is a
"spot" market because shipment is to be made in the
immediate future-usually within ten or fifteen days.
Sales on the spot tank car markets are either sales to
jobbers or consumers, sales by one refiner to another not
being included." The prices paid by jobbers and consumers in the various spot markets'are published daily
" The following is illustrative: The spot market price (computed
as indicated) was to govern when that price plus freight, plus 5/0
per gallon did not exceed the posted service station price, exclusive
of tax, at destination on date of shipment. In case that aggregate
fgure exceeded the service station price, then the price to the jobber
would be reduced by an amount equal to one-half of the excess. In
some cases the major companies assumed the full amount of the difwas based on the seller's discount of
ference. The margin of 5
31/20 to jobbers. Hence if the seller increased or decreased that discount generally then the margin of 5/20 would be increased or- decreased by an equal or like amount. The wording of the various
contracts varied but there was great uniformity in principle.
'" For this reason "spot open market" is frequently used, "open"
market referring to sales which are not made on contract nor based
on future publications.

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

in the trade journals, Platt's Oilgram and Chicago Journal
of Commerce. In the case of the Oilgram these prices
are obtained by a market checker who daily calls refiners
in the various refinery areas (major companies as well
as independents) and ascertains the quantity and price
of gasoline which they-have sold to jobbers in spot sales.38
After checking the prices so obtained against other sources
of rnformation (such as brokers' sales). and after considering the volume of sales reported at each price, he
determines the lowest and highest prices at which gasoline
is being sold to jobbers in substantial quantities .on the
spot market. " Thus,. if he finds that substantial sales
are reported at.5 1/8 ,.5'/¢ and 5%0, the Oilgram reports
a price range of 51/s-5%0. The result is published in the
Oilgrami that-same day." The Chicago Journal of Commerce publishes similar quotations the day after the sales
are reported. And its quotations cover sales to industrial
consumers as well as to jobbers. But it was not shown
that either journal had published prices paid by-a major
company as a price paid by jobbers on the tank car
market.
F. THE SPOT MARKET PRICES DURING THE BUYING PROGRAM.

In 1935- the 14 independent Mid-Continent - refiners
named in the indictment sold -377,988,736 gallons of gasoline. Of that'output, the corporate respondents pur'In case actual sales cannot be obtained, he gets the prices at
which the refiners will sell to jobbers in that open spot market.
"Major "companies sell little gasoline to jobbers on a spot basis.
The spot market prices published in the trade journals are based
largely on sales by independent refiners.
'The National Petroleum News gives the Oilgram quotations in*
weekly form.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

.195

Opinion of the Court.

chased about 56,200,000 gallons or approximately 15% 4'
and the defendantcompanies who went to trial, about
17%. The monthly purchases of all defendant companies from Mid-Continent independents from March
1935 to April 1936 usually ranged between 600 and 900"
tank cars and in a few months somewhat exceeded those
amounts.
Major company buying began under the Mid-Continent
program on March 7, 1935. During the week before that
buying commenced the Mid-Continent -spot market for
third grade gasoline rose 3/¢. The low quotation on
on March 6, 1935. -izt rose
third grade gasoline was 3
to 43/4 early in June. That advance was evidenced by
*ten successive steps. The market on third grade gasoline,
then levelled out on a plateau which extended into January 1936, except for a temporary decline in the low quotation late in 1935. By the middle of January the low
again had risen, this time to 51/4 . It held substantially
at that point until the middle of February 1936. By the
end of February iihad dropped to 50. It then levelled
off at that loW and remained there into May 1936 when
It stayed
the low dropped first to 4 7 80 and then to 43/.
there until the first week in July 1936. The low then
rose to 4%, maintained that level until mid-August, then
started to drop until by successive steps it had declined to
4
before the middle of September. It stayed there
That percentage is apparently reduced to about 10.5% if sales of
29 independent refiners (including the 14 named in the indictment)
are taken.
- What percentage these purchases by respondents were of the MdContinent spot market in 1935 does not clearly appear, the-government's estimate of one-third to a half apparently being somewhat
high.

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

until early October when it rose to 45/8, continuing at
that level until middle November when it rose to 4.3/¢.
The low remained at substantially that point throughout
the balance of 1936.
During 1935, ,as the Mid-Continent spot market for
third grade gasoline was rising, so was the East Texas
spot market. And-when in June 1935 the former levelled
off for the balance of the year at a low of 434, the latter4 2
levelled off, as we have seen, at a lw of 45/0.
During this period there were comparable movements
on the Mid-Continent spot market for regular gasoline.
From a low of 4%0 on March 7, 1935,'it rose to a low of
5%¢ early in June, that advance being evidenced by nine
successive steps. As in the case of third grade gasoline,
the market for regular gasoline ihen levelled out on a
-plateau -which extended into January 1936. By the
middle of January the low had. risen to 61/8. It held at
'that point until the middle of February 1936. By the
end of February it had dropped to 5/s€. It rose to 6¢ in
the first week of March, levelled 'ff at that low and remained there into August 1936. By mid-August it
started to drop-reaching 5 ¢ in September, going to
5/80 in October and to 5-/0 in November, where it stayed
through the balance of 1936.
These plateaus are clearly shown by a chart of.the market journals' luotations. 'But that does not of course
mean that all sales on the spot-market were -made between the high and the low during the ppriodin qwestion.
As we have said, the quotations of the market jo.urfials
merely indicated the range of prices (usually an eighth)
within- which the bulk of the gasoline was being sold.
Hence actual sales took place abovethe high and below
Comparable movements took place in the East Texas spot market for -regular gasoline until April 21, 1935, when those quotations

were discontinued.

197

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

the low. Thus between June and December 1935 while
-the low for third grade gasoline remained substantially
at 43/ and the high at 478s jobbers' and consumers' purchases 4 ranged from 4%0 to 5V/#. A similar condition
existed as respects regular gasoline.
Purchases by the major companies likewise did not
always fall within the range of these quotations. In fact,
between 85 and 90% of their purchases from the independent refiners were made at- prices which were at or
44
below the low quotations in the market journals.
"Respondents computed that for f935 8% of these purchases of
'third grade gasoline were above the high; 10% were at the high;
7% were between the high and low; 16% were below the low.
"Respondents' computations comparing their tabulations with the
government's tabulations are as follows:
Government's
Price Group

Tank-

Cars
Above the lowest quotations in Platt's Oilgram..
Above the lowest quotations in Chicago Journal of Commerce ------- _--------------------At thelowest quotations in Platt's Ollgram-----At the lowest quotations in Chicago. Journal
of Commerce -------------------------------Below the lowest quotations in Platt's Oilgram..
Below the lowest quotations in Chicago Journal
of Commerce -----------------------------Total -------------------------------------

Respondents'
Tars

%

Cars

"

%

745

8.09

516

7.5

984
6,407

10.7
69.64

992
4,491,6

14.3
64.9

6,564
Z 052

71.31
22.27,

4,419M6
1, 912;5

63.9
27. 6

1,656

17.99

1, 50836

21.8

9,204

100.00

6,920M I 100.

The government's tabulations dealt with 9,204 tank cars which
defendants (excluding Sinclair) purchased on a flat price basis from
independent refiners in the Mid-Continent field between March 1,
1935 and April 30, 1936. Respondents' tabulations included Sinclair
and excluded sales by defendants who had already been dismissed,
and eliminated or reclassified alleged omissions or improper classifications by the government.
Respondents' computations also show that the percentage of purchases at prices below the low quotations was higher during the
-

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

There were few such purchases above the high and not a
substantial percentage at the high."
C,. JOBBER AND RETAIL PRICES DURING THE BUYING
PROGRAMS.

That the spot market prices controlled prices of gasoline sold by the majors to, the jobbers in the Mid-Western
area during the indictment period is beyond question.
For, as we have seen, the vast majority of jobbers' supply.
contracts during that period contained price formulae
which were directly dependent on the Mid:Continent spot
market prices!' Hence, as the latter rose, the prices to
the jobbers under those contracts increased.
There was also ample evidence that the spot market
prices substantially affected the retail prices in the MidWestern area during the indictment period. As we have
seen,-Standard of Indiana was known during this period
as the price or market leader throughout this area. It
was, customary for the retailers to follow Standard's
posted retail prices, which had as their original base the
Mid-Continent spot market price. Standard's policy was
March-May, 1935 price rise than during the indictment period as a
whole, and that the percentage of purchases above the low was lower
during that period of price rise than during the period as a whole.
Respondents' figures were: .7% above the high of the Journal;
.8% above the high of the Oilgram; 37% at-the high of the Journal;
6.1% at the high of the Oilgram. Apparently all purchases above
the high were purchases of third grade, not regular gasoline.
One government witness testified that out of 1,729 contracts made
by the defendant major oil companies with jobbers in the MidWestern area during 1935, 1,461- provided that the basic price was
to be determined "on the basis of the average of the averages of the
high and low quotations of the Chicago Journal of Commerce and
Platt's Oilgram on spot market tank car gasoline." During 1935
defendant companies sold over 900,000,000 gallons to jobbers in the
Mid-Western area out of total sales by them in that area of over
4,000,000,000 gallons.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

to make changes in its posted retail price only when the
spot market base went up or down at least 3 oO a gallon
and maintained that change for a period of 7 days or
morey7 Standard's net reduction in posted prices for the
6 months preceding March 1935 was 1.90 per gallon.
From March 1935 to June 1935 its posted retail prices
were advanced 4oO four times.
Retail prices in the Mid-Western area kept close step
with Mid-Continent spot market prices during 1935 and
1936, though there was a short lag between advances in
the spot market prices andthe consequent rises I retail
prices. 8 This was true in genbral both of the subnor"These changes were apparently not made automatically, -as the
factor of competition was taken into consideration.
"A comparison of Monday low quotations for house brand gasoline (Oklahoma market) with average service station prices for Standard's regular grade gasoline (less taxes) for 28 cities (including La
Crosse and Milwaukee, Wis.) in the Mid-Western 'area shows the
latter following the former upward from March to June 1935 and in
January 1936.
Oklahoma Service Station

March 4, 1935 .................... 4.3750
March 11, 1935 ...................

4.625

; .......
March 18, 1935 ..........
March 25, 1935 ....................
April 1, 1935 .................
April 8, 1935 ................

4.750
4.750
4.875
5.000

Alrft 15, 1935 .....................

5.125

April 22; 1935 ..................... 5250
April 29, 1935 ..................

;.. 5250

May 6, 1935 .....................

5250

May 13, 1935.................

5.250

May -20, 1935 ....................

5.375

May 27, 1935 ....................
June 3, 1935......................
January 6, 1936 ...................
January 13, 1936 ..................
January 20, 1936 .................
January 27, 1936 ..................

5.500
5.625
5.625
6.125
6.125
6.125

12.560
12.56
12.56
12.90
12.90
12.97
'13.26
13.32
13.32
13.56
13.56
13.56
13.56
13.56
13.35
13A5
13.93
13.93

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

mall 9 and normal retail prices. To be sure, when the
tank car spot market levelled out on a plateau from June
to the end of 1935, there was not quite the same evenness
in the higher plateau of the average retail prices. For
there were during the period in question large numbers
of retail price cuts in various parts of the Mid-Western
area, though they diminished substantially during the
spring and summer of 1935. Yet the average service
station price " (less tax) having reached 13.260 by the
middle of April (from 12.5&¢ near the first of March)
never once fell below that amount; advanced regularly to
13.830 by the middle of June; declined to 13.440 in August; and after an increase to 13.60 during the last of
the summer remained at 13.410 during the balance of
1935 except for a minor intermediate drop. In sum, the
contours of the retail prices conformed in general to those
of the tank car spot markets. The movements of the
two were not just somewhat comparable; they were
strikingly similar. Irrespective of whether the tank car
spot market prices controlled the retail prices in this area,
there was substantial competent wvidence that they influenced them-substantially and effectively. And in this
connection it will be recalled that when the buying program was formulated it was in part predicated on the
proposition that a firm tank car market was necessary for
a stabilization of the retail markets.. As reported by one
who attended the meeting on February 5, 1935, where the
buying program was being discussed: "It was generally
assumed that all companies would come into the picture
since a stable retail market requires a higher tank car
market."
Prices below the normal prices which Standard posted.
Average price (28 cities Mid-Western area) for Standard's regu-

lar gasoline.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

IV. Other Circumstances Allegedly Relevant to the
Offense Charged in the Indictment.
The following facts or circumstances were developed
at the trial by testimony or other evidence or were embraced in offers of proof made by respondents..
A. ALLEGED KNOWLEDGE AND ACQUIESCENCE OF THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.

Such of the following facts as were included in respondents' offers of proof were not sought to be proved
in order to establish immunity from prosecutioh under
the anti-trust laws. For admittedly the authorization
under the National Industrial Recovery. Act necessary
for such immunity "I had not been obtained. Rather
respondents' offers of proof were made in order to show
the circumstances which, respondents argue, should be
taken into consideration in order to judge the purpose,
effect and reasonal leness of .their activities in connection
with the buying program.
Arnott testified that on January 8 or 9, 1935, he reported the appointment of the Tank Car Stabilization
Committee to officials of the Petroleum Administrative
Board who, he said, expressed great interest in it. A
member of that Committee late in January 1935 advised
the Chairman of that Board of the "necessity for action
in getting tank car prices up before it is too late." The
chairman replied that "the tank car situation in relation
to the price of crude is one about which we have no disagreement. How to bring about a correction is the
stumbling block." There was evidence that at least general information concerning the meetings of the Tank Car
Stabilization Committee was given a representative of
the Board in February 1935. In March 193tthe Code
"See. 5 is set forth, supra, note 18.

202'

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

authorities, with the approval of the Administrator,
asked the major companies to curtail their manufacture
of gasoline during that month by 1,400,000 barrels. The
purpose was said to be to aid the small refifiers by forcing
the majors to buy part of their requirements from them.
A voluntary- curtailment of some 960,000 barrels was
made.
On March 12, 1935, Arnott saw the Chairman and at
least one other representative of the Board. Among
other things the buying programs were discussed. "Arnott
did not ask for the Board's approval of .these programs
nor its "blessing.' A representative of the Board testified that Arnott told them that he was conducting those
buying programs "on his own responsibility." Arnott
denied this. The Chairman of the Board asked Arnott
if the programs violated the anti-trust laws. Arnott said
he did not believe they did and described what' his group
was doing. Arnott testified that he felt that the Board
thought the program was sound and hoped it would
work; and that if he had thought they disapproved, he
would have discontinued his activities. There was no
evidence that the Board told Arnott to discontinue the
program. But on March 13, 1935, Arnott in addressing
the District Allocators' meetinig said, respecting these
buying programs:
"I am perfectly conscious that we have made other efforts at times to have this question dealt with. It has
always been, done in group form. That has involved
agreements, group agreements. Those of us who have
had anything to do whatsoever with the whole national
picture, who have come to Washington and have had any
experience with the PAB and eventually the Department
of Justice, know just how long that road is, and for some
good reason or for some unknown reason or for no reason

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

at all those agreements seem to have disappeared; those
outstanding attempts-and they were really sincere and
worthy attempts-have disappeared in a sort of cloud
of mystery, and I don't think I, for one, or anybody else
can tell you just where they have gone-they are out of
our minds, they are completed, they are finished, and we
are not interested."
Respondents also offered to prove that a committee
of the industry (the Blazer Committee) appointed by the
Administrator to study the condition of the small units

in the industry, made a report to him in March 4935
which stated, in-ter alia, as a recommendation:
"Weknow of nothing, apart from continued improvement

in crude production control, which would be. so helpful
to the tank-car price of gasoline at this time as the substantial buying of distress gasoline by major companies.
We understand a program of this sort is being considered
by the Industry now in connection with a broad stabilization program. We therefore urge that the Administrator
give it his approval and- active support."
They also offered a memorandum dated March 22. 1935,
from the Chairman of the Petroleum Administrative
=That report went on to say:
we believe such a program might be successful in raising
both tank-car and retail prices to their proper level in relationship to
crude, oil prices.
"If higher tank-car prices- are obtained, we believe they can be
sustained only by corresponding increases in retail, gasoline prices;
otherwise, the burden merely would be shifted from small refiners to
smai marketers, who in many instances have been in just as much
distress as the refiners. We find that abnormally low retail prices
can depress tank-car prices just as Inuch as low tank-car prices can
pull down the retail price structure. Thus it appears to be essential
that both prices move up together."

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

Board to the Administrator 5 commenting on the above
report and making the following suggestion:
"We believe success in Code administration,. assuming
that it is to continue, requires that some of the recommendations made should be adopted; e. g., we have encouraged stabilization efforts designed at this time to aid
the independent refiner, . . "
On April 2, 1935, the Administrator wrote- Arnott, referred to his'letter of July 20, 1934 and stated, inter alia:
"The matter that at present concerns me is the necessity
of complying with the requirements of the basic law. In.
authorizing the formulation of a stabilization pr6grain,
I necessarilk conditioned the authority granted, by pro-.*
viding that the requirements of Clause 2 of Subsection (a)
of Section 3 of the National Industrial Recovery Act
should be observed. I know you will appreciate that
agreements between supplying companies which might
be in conflict with the anti-trust laws.of the United States
require specific approval after due consideration,Jf companies are to receive the protection afforded by Sections
4 and 5 of the National Industrial Recovery Act.
Tie Adminitrator was reported as saying abou that report that
if a parity between cude oil prices'and gasoline prices did not come
soon he would calla meeting of repriesentatives of the industry to see

what could be done about it. On March- 30, 1935, according to
respondents, the Administrator wrote conceffing that report:
"Concernirg the independent refiners, other than those in California, it appears fromthe report of the Committee on Small Enterprise
that the outstanding difficulty is due to the disparity between posted
crude oil prices and refinery realizations. This situation has been
deplorable for many months, but it is.my understanding that at present -the activity of the Stabilization Committees is havin. a, distinct
effect inthe improvement of refinery prices, and that wereit not for
old contracts, many of which are badly shaded with respect to the +
posted- price;, the independent refiner is approaching a nornlignarket' •
structure."
Respondents also offered to prove that the Blazer Comniittee id-.vised the Board in-April 1935 that there was then no occasion tV

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

"I understand that the temporary character of a number of situations and the need for immediate action has
made formalized agreements impracticable and in a number of instances they may be unnecessary. However,
when the understandings arrived at as bases of solution
of price wars affecting the industry over a considerable
area are intended to operate over a definite period of time
or involve substantial changes in the policy of the various
supplying companies made only in consideration of similar action on the part of other companies, it is necessary
that the procedure required by the Recovery Act be followed in order that the arrangement be legal. If any
such agreements have been made I should like a report
as to them. If they require approval to be effective . . .
I should be glad to give consideration to them under the
provisions of the Act."
On April 22, 1935, the Petroleum Administrative Board
wrote a letter to Arnott imposing three conditions on general stabilization work: (1) there should be no stabilization meeting without a representative of the Board being
present; (2) every, element in the industry should be
heard from before any decisions were made; (3) no general instructions should be given'under the July 20, 1934
letter. A meeting of Arnott's committee and members
of the Board was held on May 8, 1935. A representative
of the Board testified that they called Arnott "on the
carpet to request him to explain" to them "what he had
been doing." Arnott's group considered the conditions
imposed by the Board quite impossible. The Board
assigned two of its staff to work the problem out with one
of Arnott's men. According to the testimony of one of
the representatives of the Board at that meeting, Arnott
reduce crude oil prices since "we consider tank car gasoline prices now
almost up to parity with sufficient additional advances anticipated in
both tank car and retail prices"; and expressed its satisfaction "with
the success of the program to stabilize tank-car markets."

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

did not ask for the Board's approval of the buying programs--iofhing being said "one way or the other, about
approval or disapproval." And he testified that Arnott
in substance was told at that meeting by the Board's
-Chairman that the letter 6f July 20, 1934, from the Administrator to Arnott (quoted mpra p. 175) did not give
authority to conduct any buyig program; " and that
Arnott said he was not relying on that letter for approval.
Arnott, however, testified that he recalled no such statement made by the Board's Chairman. Apparently, however, Arnott, in answer to questions, gave a general explanation of the buying programs, stating that the majors
were continuing informally to buy; that there was no
pool; that no one was obliged to make purchases; that
they were trying to lift from independent refiners distress gasoline which was burdening the market.5
Respondents also offered *to prove that on May 14,
1935, the Chairman of the Petroleum Administrative
Board asked Arnott to undertake to stabilize the Pennsylvania refinery market in the way that he had stabilized
the Mid-Cbntinent refinery market; that in connection
with this request the Board evinced support and approval
R'espondents offered to prove that rnott's lawyer advised him
on'July 31, 1934, that although the letter of July 20, 1934, was "not
precisely an approval" by the Administrator of any agreement which
gave "complete protection" from any.prosecution under the anti-trust
laws, it nevertheless was "for all practical purposes a complete protection to you and your committees to engage in all reasonable activities to restore prices to normal levels."
'A sub-committee of the Planning & Coordination Committee met
with the Board on May 10, 1935, to discuss the report of the Blazer
Committee. The recommendation in that report that the majors
buy distress gasoline from the independents was discussed. Arnott
testified that his group told the Board that "we already had buying
of gasoline in effect" to which the Chairman of the Board was said to
have replied "That is quite so and disposes of that part of the

report!'

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUi OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

of the Mid-Continent buying program; and that Arnott
undertook to do what he cQuld in the matter and called
a meeting of the Pennsylvania refiners for May 28, 1935.
Apparently the Schechter decision terminated that
undertaking.
Respondents also offered portibns of a final report
prepared by the Marketing Division of the Petioleum
.Administrative Board which discussed the work of the
General Stabilization Committee " saying, inter alia:
"One of the most important was the tank-car committee,
which attempted to ,get the tank-car market raised more
in line with the price of crude recovery cost on the theory
that a firm tank-car market was essential to a stabilized
retail structure." And respondents offered testimony of
a member of the Board-before a Senate Committee in 1937
respecting the "buying pool efforts, that began in December of 1933 and continued from then on during the entire
period of the Petroleum Code." That testimony was:
"It was an effort of the Department and the industrial
committees to bring about the normal relationship between gasoline prices and crude oil prices, in order to
permit the independent, non-integrated refiner to be able
to operate without loss."
In sum, respondents by this and similar evidence offered to establish that the 'Petroleum Administrative
Board knew of the buying programs and acquiesced in
them. And respondents by those facts, together with
those discussed under II, supra, undertook to show that
their objectives under the buying programs were in line

56Prepared between December 1935 and February 1936 and issued
in June 1936 by the Department of the Interior.
"Inspeaking of the general work of this Committee (which as we
have noted was set. up to deal with price wars) the report stated:
"The stabilization program was perhaps the outstanding development
under the code."

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

with those of the federal government under the Code: to
keep the price of crude oil at a minimum of $1 a barrel;
to restore the wholesale price level of gasoline at the refinery to a parity with crude oil; to stabilize retail prices
at a normal sprad between the refinery price and the
retail price.
B.

OTHER FACTORS ALLEGED TO HAVE CAUSED OR CONTRIBUTED TO THE RISE IN THE SPOT MARKET.

Respondents do not contend that the buying programs
were not a factor in the price rise and in the stabilization
of the spot markets during 1935 and 1936. But they do
contend that they were relatively minor ones, because
of the presence of other economic forces such as the
following:
1. Control of production of crude oil.
Under the Code An attempt was made for the first time
to balance the production of crude oil with the consumptive demand for gasoline. Monthly estimates of gasoline
consumption would be made by the Bureau of Mines.
The quantity of crude oil necessary to satisfy that demand was also estimated, broken down into allowables
for each state and recommended to the states. And there
was evidence that the states would approximately conform to those recommendations. After the Code the oil
states continued the same practice under an Interstate
Compact which permitted them to agree as to the quantities of crude oil which they would allow to be produced.5 8
2. Connally Act.
As we have noted, this law was enacted late in February 1935 and began to be effective the first part of March
1935. Prior to this act, control of hot oil by the states
'aThis Compact (49 Stat. 939) wag authorized in February 1935
and became effective in August 1935.

U. S -v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

had not. been effective for any. extended period of time.
Throughout 1933 and 1934 from 150,000 to 200,000 barrels of crude oil a day were estimated to have, been produced in East Texas in excess of the state's allowables,
much of it going into interstate commerce. After the
Connally Act went into operation, no hot gasoline went
into interstate commerce according to respondents'
evidence.
3. $1 Crude oil.
As we have noted, crude oil was brought to a dollar a
barrel near the end of September 1933. Before the Connally Act, however, hot oil flooded the market at substantially lower prices, Gasoline produced from hot oil
forced the price of gasoline produced from crude oil down
below cost. But with the elimination of the hot' oil,
fluctuations in the price of crude ceased. This had a
stabilizing effect on the price of gasoline.
4. Increase in consumptive demand.
Beginning in the spring of 1935 there was an increase in
demand for gasoline. During the whole' indictment
period every month showed an increase over the corresponding month in the previous year. For the entire year
of 1935 consumption for the country as a whole was 7%
more than for 1934; that for 1936 was about 10% over
1935-substantially the same increases taking place in the
Mid-Western area.
5. Control of inventory withdrawal and of manufacture of gasoline.
Under the Code crude oil could be withdrawn from
storage only with the approval of the Administrator.
Also under the Code there were manufacturing quotas
for gasoline which through Code authorities were allocated
among the refiners. In March 1935, as we have seen,
gasoline inventories of the majors were reduced by over

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of tht Court.

310 U.S.

900,000 barrels through a voluntary curtailment program.
The demand was so heavy that the industry withdrew
from storage and refined over 22,000,000 barrels of crude
oil in.storage in 1935. Further, imports of crude oil were
]imited by order of the Administrator.
6. Improved business conditions.
The- years 1935 and 1936 were marked by improving
general, business conditions and rising prices everywhere.
Much testimony was taken on these and related points.
It was designed to show that under the conditions which
existed during the indictment period, stability in the
market was to be expected from the play -of these various
economic forces. For it was argued that by reason of
those forces supply and demand were brought into a
reasonable continuing balance with the resultant stabilization of the markets. And there was much testimony
from respondents' witnesses that the above factors as well
as the buying programs did contribute to price stability
during this period. But no witness assumed to testify
as to how much of a factor the buying program had been.
V. Application of the Sherman Act.
A. CHARGE TO THE JURY

The court charged the jury that it was a violation of
the Sherman Act for a group of individuals or corporations to act together to raise the prices to be charged for
the commodity which they manufactured where they
controlled a substantial part of the interstate trade and
commerce in that commodity. The court stated that
where the mimbers of a combination had the power to
raise prices and acted together for that purpose, the
combination was illegal; and that it was immaterial how
reasonable or unreasonable those prices were or to what
extent they had been affected by the combination. It
further charged that if such illegal combination existed,

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

211

Opimion of the Court.

it did not matter that there may also have been other
factors which contributed to the raising of the prices. In
that connection, it referred specifically to the economic
factors which we have previously discussed and which
respondents contended were primarily responsible for the
price rise and the spot markets' stability in 1935 and
1936, viz. control of production, the Connally Act, the
price of crude oil, an increase in consumptive demand,
control of inventories and manufacturing quotas, and improved business conditions. The court then charged that,
unless the jury found beyond a reasonable doubt that the
price rise and its continuance were "caused" by the combination and not caused by those other factors, verdicts of
"not guilty" should be returned. It also charged that
there was no evidence of governmental approval which
would exempt the buying programs from the prohibitions
of the Sherman Act; and that knowledge or acquiescence
of officers of the government or the good intentions of the
members of the combination would not give immunity
from prosecution under that Act.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held this charge to be
reversible error, since it was based upon the theory that
such a combination was illegal per se. In its view respondents" activities were not unlawful unless they constituted an unreasonable restraint of trade. Hence, since
that issue had not been submitted to the jury and since
evidence bearing on it had been excluded, that court reversed and remanded for a new trial so that the character
of those activities and their effect on competion could be
determined. In answer to the government's petition respondents here contend that the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals was correct, since there was evidence
that they had affected prices only in the sense that the
removal of the competitive evil of distress gasoline by the
-buying programs had permitted prices to rise to a normal
competitive level; that their activities promoted rather

212

OCTOBER TERM. 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

than impaired fair competitive opportunities; and therefore that their Activities had not unduly or unreasonably
restrained trade. And they also contend that certain
evidence which was offered should have been admitted
as bearing on the purpose and.end sought to be attained,
the evil believed to exist, and the nature of the restraint
.and its effect. By their" cross-petition respondents contend that the record contains no substantial competent
evidence that the combination, either in purpose or efect,
unreasonably restrained trade within the meaning of the
Sherman Act, and therefore that the Circuit Court of
Appeals erred in holding that they were not entitled to
directed verdicts of acquittal.
In United States v. Trenton Potteries Co., 273 U. S.
392, this Court sustained a conviction under the Sherman
Act where the jury was charged that an agreement on
the-part of the.members of a combination, controlling a
substantial part of -an industry, upon the prices which
the 'members are to charge for their commodity is in
itself an unreasonable restraint of trade without regard
to the reasonableness of the prices or the good intentions
of the combining units. There the combination was
composed of those who controlled some 82 per cent of
the business of manufacturing and distributing' in the
United States vitreous pottery. Their object was to fix
the-prices for the sale of that commodity. In that case
the trial court refused various requests to charge that
the agreement to fix prices did not itself constitute a
violation of law unless the jury also found that it unreasonably restrained interstate commerce. This Court
reviewed the various price-fixing cases under the Sherman Act beginning with United States v. Trans-Missouri
Freight Assn., 166 U. S. 290, and United States v. Joint
Traffic Assn., 171 U. S. 505, and said ". . . it has since
often been decided and always assumed that uniform'

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

price-fixing by those controlling in any substantial manner a trade or business in interstate commerce is prohibited by the Sherman Law, despite the reasonableness
of the particular prices agreed upon." (p. 398.) This
Court pointed out that the so-called "rule of reason" announced in Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1,
and in United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S.
106, had not affected this view of the illegality of pricefixing' agreements. And in holding that agreements "to
fix or maintain prices" are not reasonable restraints of
trade under the statute merely because the prices themselves are reasonable, it said (pp. 397-398):
"The aim and result of every price-fixing agreement, if
effective, is the elimination of one form of competition.
The power to fix prices, whether reasonably exercised or
not, involves power to control the market and to fix arbitrary and unreasonable prices. The reasonable price
fixed today may through economic and business changes
become the unreasonable price of tomorrow. Once established, it may be maintained unchanged because of the
absence of competition secured by the agreement for a
price reasonable when fixed. Agreements which create
such potential power may well be held to be in themselves
unreasonable or unlawful restraints, without the necessity of minute inquiry whether a particular price is
reasonable or unreasonable as fixed and without placing
on the government in enforcing the Sherman Law the
burden of ascertaining from day to day whether it has
become unreasonable through the mere variation of
economic conditions. Moreover, in the absence of express legislation requiring it, we should hesitate to adopt
a construction making the difference between legal and
illegal conduct in the field of business relations depend
upon so uncertain a test as whether prices are reasonable-a .determination which can be satisfactorily made

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

only after a complete survey of our economic organization and a: choice between rival philosophies."
In conclusion this Court emphasized that. the Sherman
Act is not only a prohibition against the infliction of a
particular type of public injury, but also, as stated in
Standard Sanitary Mfg. .C.v. United States, 226 U. S.
20, 49, a "limitation of rights" which may be "pushed to
evil consequences and therefore restrained."
But respondents -claimh that other decisions of this
Court afford them adequate defenses to the indictment'
Among those on which they place reliance are Appalachian Coals, Inc. -v. United States, 288 U. S.344; Sugar
Institute, Inc. v. United States, 297 U. S. 553; Maple
Flooring Mfrs. Assn. v, United States, 268 U. S. 563;
Cement Mfrs. ProtectiveAssn. v. United States, 268 U. S.
588; Chicago Board of Trade V. United States, 246 U. S.
231; and the American Tobacco and Standard Oil cases,
6upra.
But we do not think that line of cases is apposite. As
clearly indicated in the Trenton Potteries case, the
American Tobacco and Standard Oil cases have n'o application to combinations operating directly on prices or
price structures.
And we are ,of the opinion that Appalachian Coals,
Inc v. United States, supra,is' not in point.
In that case certain- produbers of bituminous coal created an exclusive selling agency for their coal. The
agency was to establish standard classifications and sell
the coal of its principals at the best prices obtainable.
The occasion for the formation of the agency was the
existence of certain so-called injurious practices and conditions in the industry. One of these was the problem
of "distress coal"-coal shipped t6 the market which was
unsold at the time of delivery and therefore dumped on
the market irrespective of demand. The agency was to
promote the systematic study of the marketing and dis-

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL.CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

tribution of coal, its demand and consumption; to maintain an inspection and an engineering department to demonstrate to customers the advantages of this type of coal
and to promote an extensive advertising campaign; to
provide a research department to demonstrate proper and
efficient methods of burning coal and thus to aid producers in their competition with substitute -fuels; to operate a credit department dealing with the reliability of
purchasers; and to make the sale of coal more economical.
That agency was also to sell all the coal of its principals
at the best prices obtainable and, if all could not be sold,
to apportion orders.upon a stated basis. And, save for
certain stated exceptions, it was to determine the prices
at which sales would be made without consultation with
its principals. This Court concluded that so far as actual
purpose was concerned, the defendant producers were engaged in a "fair and open endeavor to aid the industry
in a measurable recovery frcm its plight." And it observed that the plan did not either contemplate or involve
"the fixing of market prices"; that defendants would not
be able to fix ihe price of coal in the consuming markets;
that their coal would continue to be subject to "active
competition." To the contention that the plan would
have a tendency to stabilize market prices and to raise
them to a higher level, this Court replied (p. 374):
"The fact that the correction of abuses may tend to stabilize a business, or to produce fairer price levels, does
not mean that the abuses should go uncorrected or that
co~perative endeavor to correct them necessarily constitutes an unreasonable restraint of trade. The intelligent
conduct of commerce through the acquisition of full information of all relevant facts may properly be sought by
the co~peration of those engaged in trade, although stabilization of trade and more reasonable prices may be
the result."

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1939:
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

In distinguishing the Trenton Potteries case this Court
said (p. 375):
"In the instant case there is, as we have seen, no intent
or power to fix prices, abundant competitive opportunities will exist in all markets where defendants' coal is
sold, and nothing has been shown to warrant the conclusion that defendants' plan will have an injurious effect
upon competition in these markets."
Thus in reality the only essential thing in common between the instant case and the Appalachian Coals case
is the presence in each of so-called demoralizing or injurious practices. The methods of dealing with them
were quite divergent. -In the instant case there were
buying programs of distress gasoline which had as their
direct purpose and aim the raising and maintenance of
spot market prices and of prices to jobbers and consumers
in the Mid-Western area, by the elimination of distress
gasoline as a market factor. The increase in the spot
market prices was to be accomplished by a well organized
buying program on that market: regular ascertainment
of the amounts of surplus gasoline; assignment of sellers
among the buyers; regular purchases at prices which
would place and keep a floor under the market. Unlike
the plan in the instant case, the plan in the Appalachian
Coals case was not designed to operate vis-a-vis the general consuming market and to fix the prices on that market. Furthermore, the effect, if any, of that plan on
prices was not only wholly incidental but also highly
conjectural. For the plan had not then been put into
operation. Hence this Court expressly reserved jurisdiction in the District Court to take further proceedings
if, inter alia,in "actual operation" the plan proved to be
"an undue restraint upon interstate commerce." And
as we have seen it would per se constitute such a restraint
if price-fixing were involved.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

217

Opinion of the Court.

Nor are Maple Flooring Mfrs. Assn. v. United States
and Cement Mfrs. Protective Assn. v. United States,
supra, at all relevant to the problem at hand. For the
systems there under attack were methods of gathering
and distributing information respecting business operations. It was noted in those cases that there was not
present any agreement for price-fixing. And they were
decided, as indicated in the Trenton Potteriescase, on the
express assumption that any agreement for price-fixing
would have been illegal per se. And since that .element*
was lacking, the only issues were whether or not on the
precise facts there presented such activities of the combinations constituted unlawful restraints -of. commerce.
A majority of the Court held that they did not.
Nor can respondents find sanction in Chicago Board
of Trade v. United States, supra,for the buying programs
here under attack.' That case involved a prohibition on
the members of the Chicago Board of Trade from purchasing or offering to purchase between the closing of the
session and its opening the next day grains (under a
special class of contracts) at a price other than the closing bid. The rule was somewhat akin to rules of an
exchange limiting the period of trading, for as stated by
this Court the "restriction was upon the period of pricemaking." No attempt was made to show that the purpose or effect of the rule was to raise or depress prices.
The rule affected only a small proportion of the commerce
in question. And among its effects was the creation of a
public market for grains under that special contract class,
where prices were determined competitively and openly.
Since it was not aimed at price manipulation or the control of the market prices and since it had "no appreciable
effect on general market prices," the rule survived as a
reasonable restraint of trade.
There was no deviation froin the principle of the
TrentonPotteriescase in Sugar Institute v. United States,

OCTOBER TERM. 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

.310 U. S.

supra. For in that case so-called competitive abuses were
not permitted as defenses to violations of the Sherman
Act bottomed on a trade association's efforts to create and
maintain a uniform price structure.
Thus for over forty years this Court has consistently
and without deviation adhered to the principle that price-:
fixing agreements are unlawful per se under the Sherman
Act and that no showing of so-called competitive abuses
or evils which those agreements were designed to eliminate or alleviate may be interposed as a defense. And we
reaffirmed that. well-established rule in clear and unequivocal terms in Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States,
309 U. S. 436, 458, where we said:
'Agreements for price maintenance of articles moving in
interstate commerce are, without more, unreasonable restraints within the meaning of the Sherman Act because
they eliminate competition, UnitedStates v. Trenton Potteries Co., 273 U. S. 392, and agreements which create
potential power for such price maintenance exhibited by
its actual exertion for that purpose are in themselves
unlawful restraints within the meaning of the Sherman
Act, . .
Therefore the sole remaining question on this phase
of the case is the applicability.of the rule of the Trenton
Potteries case to these facts.
Respondents seek to distinguish the Trenton Potteries
case from the instant one. They assert that in that case
the parties substituted an agreed-on price for one determined by competition; that the defendants there had
the power and-purpose to suppress the play of competition in the determination of the market price; and therefore that the controlling factor in that decision was the
destruction of market competition, not whether prices
were higher or lower, reasonable or unreasonable. Respondents contend that in the instant, case there was no
elimination in the spot tank car market of -competition

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

219

Opinion of the Court.

which prevented the prices in that market from being
made by the play of competition in sales between independent refiners and their jobber and consumer customers; that during the buying programs those prices were
in fact determined by such competition; that the purchases under those programs were closely related to or
dependent on the spot market prices; that there was no
evidence that the purchases of distress gasoline under
those programs had any effect on the competitive market
price beyond that flowing from the removal of a competitive evil;- and that if respondents had tried to do more
than free competition from the effect of distress gasoline
and to set an arbitrary non-competitive price through
their purchases, they would have been without power to
do so.
But we do not deem those distinctions material.
In the first place, there was abundant ..evidence that. the
combination had the purpose to raise prices. And likewise, there was ample evidence that the buying programs
at least contributed to the price rise and the stability of
the spot markets, and to increases in the price of gasoline
sold in the Mid-Western area during the indictment
period. That other factofs also may have contributed to
that rise and stability of the markets is imamaterial. For
in any such market movement, forces other than the purchasing power of the buyers normally would contribute
to the price rise and the market stability. So far as
cause and effect are concerned it is sufficient in this type
of case if the buying programs of the combination resulted
in a price rise and market stability which but for them
would not have happened. -For this reason the charge to
the jury that the buying programs must have "caused"
the price rise and its continuance was more favorable to
respondents than they could have required. Proof that
there was a conspiracy, that its purpose was to raise
prices, and that it caused or contributed to a price rise

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

is proof of the: actual consummation or execution of a
conspiracy under § 1 of the Sherman Act.
Secondly, the fact that sales on the spot markets were
still governed by some competition is of no consequence.
For it is indisputable that that competition was restricted
through-the removal by respondents of a part of the supply which but for the buying programs would have been
a factor in determining the going prices on those markets.
But the vice of the conspiracy was not'merely the restriction of supply of gasoline by removal of a surplus. As
we' have said, this. was a well organized program. .The
timing and strategic placement of the buying orders for
distress gasoline played an important and significant role.
Buying orders were carefully placed so as to remove the
distress gasoline from weak hands. Purchases were
timed. Sellers were assigned to the buyers so that regular outlets for distress gasoline would be available. The
whole scheme was carefully planned and executed to the
end that distress gasoline would not overhang the markets and depress them at any time. And as a result of
the payment of fair going market prices a floor was
placed and kept under the spot markets. Prices rose and
jobbers and consumers in the Mid-Western area paid
more for their gasoline than they would have paid but
for the conspiracy. Competition was not eliminated
from the markets; but it was clearly curtailed, since restriction of the supply of gasoline, the timing and placement of the purchases under the buying programs and
the placing of a floor under the spot markets obviously
reduced the play of the.forces 'of supply and demand.
The elimination of so-called competitive evils is no
legal justification for such buying programs. The elimination of such conditions was sought primarily for its
effect on the price structures. Fairer competitive prices,
it is claimed, resulted when distress gasoline was removed
from the-xMarket. But such defense is typical of the prot-

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

estations usually made in price-fixing cases. Ruinous
competition, financial disaster, evils of price cutting and,
the like appear throughout our history as ostensible justifications for price-fixing. If the so-called competitive
abuses were to be appraised here, the reasonableness of
prices would necessarily become an issue in every pricefixing case. In that event the Sherman Act would soon
be emasculated; its philosophy would be supplanted by
one which is wholly alien to a system of free competition; it would not be the charter of freedom which its
framers intended.
The reasonableness of prices has no constancy due to
the dynamic quality of business facts underlying price
structures. Those who fixed reasonable prices today
would perpetuate unreasonable prices tomorrow, since
those prices would not be subject to continuous administrative supervision and readjustment in light of changed
conditions. Those who controlled the prices would control or effectively dominate the market. And those who
were in that strategic position would have it in their
power to destroy or drastically impair the competitive
system. But the thrust of the rule it deeper and reaches
more than monopoly power. Any combination which
tampers with price structures is engaged in an unlawful
activity. Even though the members of the price-fixing
group were in no position to control the market, to the
extent that they raised, lowered, or stabilized prices they
would be directly interfering with the free play of market
forces. The Act places all such schemes beyond the pale
and protects that vital part of our economy against any
degree of interference. Congress has not left with us
the determination of whether or not particular pricefixing schemes are wise or unwise, healthy or destructive.
It has not permitted the age-old cry of ruinous competition and competitive evils to be a defense to price-fixing
conspiracies. It has no more allowed genuine or fancied

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

competitive abuses as a legal justification for such
schemes than it has the good intentions of the members
of the combination. If such a shift is to be made, it must
be done by the Congress. Certainly Congress has not left
us with any such choice. Nor has the Act created or
authorized the creation of any special exception in favor
of the oil industry. Whatever may be its peculiar problems and characteristics, the Sherman Act, so far as pricefixing agreements are concerned, establishes one uniform
rule applicable to all industries alike. There was accordingly no error in the refusal to charge that in order to
convict the jury must find that the resultant prices were
raised and maintained at "high, arbitrary and noncompetitive levels." The charge in the indictment to
that effect was surplusage.
Nor is it important that the prices paid by the combination were not fixed in the sense that they were uniform
and inflexible. Price-fixing as used in the Trenton Potteries case has no such limited meaning. . An agreement
to pay or charge rigid, uniform prices would be an illegal
agreement under the Sherman Act. But so would agreements to raise or lower prices whatever machinery for'
price-fixing was used. That price-fixing includes more
than the mere establishment of uniform prices is clearly
evident from the Trenton Potteriescase itself, where this
Court noted with approval Swift & Ca. v. United States,
196 U. S. 375, .in which a decree was affirmed which restrained a combination from "raising or lowering prices
or fixing uniform prices" at which meats will be sold.
Hence, prices are fixed within the meaning of the Trenton
Potteries case if the- range within which purchases or
sales -will be made is agreed upon, if the prices paid of
charged are to be at a certain level or on ascending or
descending scales, if they are to. be uniform, or if by
various formulae they are related to the market prices.
They are fixed b-cause they are agreed upon. And the

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

fact that, as here, they are fixed at the fair going market
price is immaterial. For purchases at or under the market are one species of price-fixing. In this case, the result was to place a floor under the market-a floor which
served the function of increasing the stability and firmness of market prices. That was repeatedly characterized in this case as stabilization. But in terms of market
operations stabilization is but one form of manipulation.
And market manipulation in its various manifestations
is implicitly an artificial stimulus applied to (or at times
a brake on) market prices, a force which distorts those
prices, a factor which prevents the determination of
those prices by free competition alone. Respondents,
however, argue that there was no correlation between the
amount of gasoline which the major companies were buying and the trend of prices on the spot markets. They
point to the fact that such purchasing was lightest during
the period of the market rise in the spring of 1935, and
heaviest in the summer and early fall of 1936 when the
prices declined; and that it decreased later in 1936 when.
the prices rose. But those facts do not militate against
the conclusion that these buying programs were a species
of price-fixing or manipulation. Rather they are wholly
consistent with the maintenance of a floor under the
market or A stablization operation of this type, since the
need for purchases under such a program might well
decrease as prices rose and increase as prices declined.
As we*have indicated; the machinery employed by a
combination for price-fixing is immaterial.
Under the Sherman Act a combination formed for the
purpose and with the effect of raising, depressing, fixing,
pegging, or stabilizing the price of a commodity in inter'state or foieign commerce is illegal per se. Where the
machinery for price-fixing is an agreement on the prices
to be charged or paid for the commodity in the interstate
or foreign channels of trade, the power to fix prices exists

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

if the combination has control of a substantial part of the
commerce in that commodity. Where the means for
price-fixing are purchases or sales of theicommodity in a
market operation or, as here, purchases of a part of the
supply of the commodity for the purpose of keeping it
from having a depressive effect on the markets, suclh
power may be found to exist though the combination
does not control a substantial part of the commodity. In
such a case that power may be established if as a result
of market conditions, the resources available to the combinations, the timing and the strategic placement of
orders and the like, effective means are at hand to accomplish the desired objective. But -there may be effective
influence over the market though the group in question
does not control it. Price-fixing agreements may have
utility to members of the group though the power possessed or exerted falls far short of donlination and control.
Monopoly power (United States v. Patten,226 U. S. 525)
is not the only power which the Act strikes down, as we
have said.. Proof that a combination was 'formed for the
purpose of fixing prices and that it caused them to be
fixed or contributed to that result is proof of the completion of a price-fixing conspiracy under § I of the -Act.59
The indictment in this case charged that this combination
had that purpose and. effect. And there was abundant
evidence to support it. Hence the existence of power on
the part of members of the combination to fix prices was
but a conclusion from the finding that the buying programs caused or contributed to the rise and stability of
prices.
T

Under this indictment proof -that prices in the Mid-Western area
were raised as a result of the activities of the combination was essential, since sales of gasoline by respondents at the increased prices in
that area were necessary in order to establish jurisdiction in the
Western District of Wisconsin. Hence we have necessarily treated
the case as one where exertion of the power to fix prices (i. e. the

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

'Opinion of the Court.

As to knowledge or acquiescence of officers of the Federal Government little need be said. The fact that Congress through utilization of the precise methods here employed could seek to reach the same objectives sought by
respondents does not mean that respondents or any other
actual fixing of prices) was an ingredient of the offense. But that
does not mean that both a purpose and a power to fix prices are
necessary for the establishment of a conspiracy under § 1 of the Sherman Act. That would be true if power or ability to commit an
offense was necessary in order to convict a person of conspiring to
commit it. But it is well established that a person "may be guilty
of conspiring although incapable of committing the objective offense."
United States v. Rabinowich, 238 U. S. 78, 86. And it is likewise
well settled that conspiracies" under the Sherman Act are not depend-,
ent on any overt act other than the act of conspiring. Nash. v.
United States, 229 U. S. 373, 378. It is the "contract, combination ... or conspiracy in restraint of trade or commerce" which § 1
of the Act strikes down, whether the -concerted activity be wholly
nascent or abortive on -the one hand, or successful on the other. See
United States v. Trenton Potteries Co., 273 U. S. 392, 402. Cf. Retail'Lumber Dealers'Asn. v. State, 95 Miss. 337; 48 So. 1021. And
the amount of interstate. or foreign trade involved is not material
(Montague & Co.v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38), since § 1 of the Act brands
as illegal the character of the restraint not the amount of commerce
affected. Steers v. United States, 192 F. 1, 5; Pattersor.v. United
States, 222 F. 599, 618-619. In view of these considerations a- conspiracy to fix prices violates § 1 of the Act though lo overt act is
shown, though it is not established that the conspirators had the
means available for accomplishment of their objective, and though
the conspiracy embraced but a part of the interstate or foreign commerce in the commodity. Whatever may have been the status of
price-fixing agreements at common law (Allen, Criminal Conspiracies
in Restraint of Trade at Common Law, 23 Harv. L. Rev. 531) the
Sherman Act has a broader 'application to them than the common
law prohibitions or sanctions. See United States v. Trans-Missouri
Freight Assn., 166 U. S. 290, 328. Price-fixing agreements may or
may not be aimed at complete elimination of price competition. The
group making those agreements .mayor may not have power to control the market. But the fact that the group cannot control .the
market prices does not necessarily mean that the agreement as to
prices has no utility to the members-of the combination. The effec-

.226

OCTOBER TERM., 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

.310 U. S.

group may do so without specific-Congressional authority.
Admittedly no approval of the buying programs was obtained under the National Industrial Recovery Act prior
to its termination on June 16, 1935, (§ 2 (c)) which would
give immunity to respondents from prosecution under the
Sherman Act. Though employees of the government may
have known of those programs and winked at them or
tacitly approved them, no immunity would have thereby
been obtained. For Congress had specified the precise
tiveness of price-fixing agreements is dependent on many factors, such
as competitive thetics, 'position in the industry, the formula underlying price policies. Whatever economic justification particular
price-fixing agreements may be thought to have, the law does not
permit an inquiry into their reasonableness. They are all banned
because of their actual or potential threat to the central nervous system of the economy. See Handler, Federal Anti-Trust Laws-A
Symposium (1931),.pp. 91 et seq.
The existence or exertion of power to accomplish the desired objective (United States v. United States Steel Corp., 251 U. S.417, 444451; United States v. International Harvester Co., 274 U. S. 693,
708-709) becomes important only in cases where the offense charged
is the actual monopolizing of an "part of trade or commerce in violation of § 2 of the Act. An intent and a power to produce the result
which the law condemns are then necessary. As stated in Swift &
Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 396, "...
when that intent and
the 'consequent dangerous probability exist, this statute, like many
others and like the common law in some cases, directs itself against
that dangerous probability as well as against the completed result."
But the crime under § 1 is legally distinct from that under § 2 (United
States v. MacAndrews & Forbes Co., 149 F: 836; United States 'v.
Buchalter, 88 F. 2d 625) though the two sections overlap in the sense
that a monopoly under § 2 is a species of restraint of trade under § 1.
Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1,- 59-61; Patterson v.
United States, supra, p. 620. Only a confusion between the nature
of the offenses under those two sections (see United States v. Nelson,
52 F. 646; United States v. Patterson, 55 F. 605; Chesapeake & 0.
Fuel Co.v. United States, 115 F. 610) would lead to the conclusion
that power to fix prices was necessary for proof of a price fixing conspi-acy under § 1. Cf. State v. Eastern Coal Co., 29 R. I. 254; 70
A. 1; State v. Scolard, 126 Wash. 335; 218 P. 224.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL.CO.
150

227

Opinion of the Court.

manner and method of securing immunity. None other
would suffice. Otherwise national policy on such grave
and important issues as this would be determined not by
Congress nor by those to whom Congress had delegated
authority but by virtual volunteers. The method adopted
by Congress for alleviating the penalties of the Sherman
Act through approval by designated' public representatives 6"would be supplanted by a foreign system. But
even had approval been-obtained for the buying programs,
that approval would not have survived the expiration
in June 1935 of the Act whih was the source of that
approval. As we have seen, the buying program continued unabated during the balance of 1935 and far into
1936. As we said in United States v. Borden Co., 308
U. S. 188, 202, "A conspiracy thus continued is in effect
renewed during each day of its continuance." Hence,
approval or knowledge and acquiescence of federal au'thorities prior to June 1935 could have no relevancy to
respondents' activities subsequent thereto. The fact that
the buying programs may have been consistent with the
'It

should be noted in this connection that the typical method

adopted by Congress when it has lifted the ban of the Sherman Act
is the scrutiny and approval of designated public representatives.
Under the N. I. R. A. this could be done through the code machinery
with the approval of the President as provided in §§ 3 (a) and 5,
supranot 18. Under § 407 (8) of the Transportation Act of 1920 (41
Stat. 482; 49 U. S. C. § 5 (8)) carriers, including certain express

companies, which were consolidated pursuant to any order of the Interstate Commerce Commission were relieved from the operation of

the Anti-Trust laws. And see the Maloney Act (§ 15A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; 52 Stat. 1070) providing for the formation of associations of brolkers and dealers with the approval of the
Securities and Exchange Commission and establishing continuous
supervision by the Commission over specified activities of such associations; and the Bituminous Coal Act 'of 1937 (50 Stat. 72), especially §§ 4 and 12-particularlyas they relate to the fixing of minimnium and maximum prices by the Bituminous Coal Commission.

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Codurt.

310 U. S.

general objectives and ends sought to be obtained under
the National Industrial Recovery Act is likewise irrelevant to the legality under the Sherman Act of respondents' activities either prior to or -after June 1935. For as
we have seen price-fixing combinations which lack Congressional sanction are illegal per se; they are not evaluated in terms of their purpose, aim or effect in the elimination of so-called competitive evils. Only in the event
that they were, would such considerations have been
relevant.
Accordinglywe conclude that the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in reversing the judgments on this ground. A
fortiori the position taken by respondents in their cross
petition that they were entitled to directed verdicts of
acquittal is untenable.
B. RESPONDENTS' OFFERS OF PROOF.

What we have said disposes of most of the errors alleged in exclusion of evidence. The offers of proof covering the background and operation of the National Industrial Recovery Act and the Petroleum Code, the condition
of the oil industry,. the alleged encouragement, coiperation and acquiescence of the Federal Petroleum Administration in the buying programs and the like were properly
excluded, insofar as they bore on the nature of the restraint and the purpose or end sought to be attained.
For as we have seen the reasonableness of the restraint
was not properly an issue in the case.
There were, however, offers of proof alleged to be
relevant to the cause of the price rise and the subsequent
stability of the markets during the period in question.
In addition to the foregoing offers, respondents sought
to show that the presence of hot oil and hot gasoline
had greatly depressed the market from 1932 to early in
1935 when the Connally Act became effective, except for

u. 6. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

one short period from October to December 1934; that
beginning in October 1934 shipment of hot oil from East
Texas into interstate commerce had for the first time
been effectively controlled; that within a period of six
weeks thereafter the tank car spot market rose 11/20an amount corresponding to the price rise from March
to June 1935; that the various factors which prhnarily
affect price were almost precisely the same in the fall
of 1934 as they were in the spring of 1935; that the price
of gasoline had borne a constant relationship to the price
of crude oil from January 1918 to October 1933-that
relationship disappearing when the price of hot oil fell
below legal crude but reappearing in October 1934, and
again in March 1935, when hot oil was eliminated; that
gasoline prices were more depressed than the prices of
other commodities and the cost of living in 1933 and
1934, and recovered and rose less than such other prices
and the cost of living in 1935 and 1936.
We think there was no reversible error in exclusion of
these various offers.
To the extent-that they were designed to show that respondents by their buying programs had not raised. the
spot market prices to an artificial and non-competitive
level, these offers of proof were properly denied as immaterial. For, as we have said, the reasonableness of the
prices and the fact that respondents! activities merely
removed from the market the depressive effect of distress
gasoline were not relevant to the issues.
And to the extent that these offers of proof were aimed
it establishing and evaluating other contributory causes
?or the price rise and market stability during the indictment period, they were not improperly denied. In the
first place, the record is replete with evidence showing
the condition of the oil industry at the time of the adoption of the code and during the code period. There was

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

ample testimony bearing on the other causal factors
which respondents contend were primarily responsible
for the price 'r.se and market stability during the indictment period. Much of the refused testimony was merely
cumulative in nature. A trial court has wide discretion
in a situation of that kind. The trial lasted about three
and a half months. Terminal points are necessary even
in a conspiracy trial involving intricate business facts and
legal issues. In the second place, the offer to show the
market conditions late in 1934 when hot oil was temporarily under control was not improperly denied. There
was substantial evidence in the record to demonstrate the
depressive market effect of hot oil. While the offer was
not wholly irrelevant to the issues, it was clearly collateral. The trial court has a wide range for discretion in
the exclusion of such evidence. See Golden Reward
Mining Co. v. Buxton Mining Co., 97 F. 413, 416-417;
Chesterfield Mfg. Co. v. Leota Cotton Mills, 194 F. 358,
359. Admission of testimony showing the market conditions late in 1934 would have opened an inquiry into
causal factors as involved and interrelated as those present during the indictment period. That might have confused rather than enlightened the jury. In any event it
would not have eliminated the buying programs as contributory causes to the market rise and stability in 1935
and 1936. And it would have prolonged the inquiry and
protracted the trial. As once stated by Mr. Justice
Holmes, one objection to the introduction of collateral
issues is a "purely practical one, a concession to the shortness of life." Reeve v. Dennett, 145 Mass. 23, 29; 11
N. E. 938, 944. And see Union Stock Yard & Transit
Co. v. United States, 308 U. S. 213, 223-224. Similar
reasons sustain the action of the trial court in limiting
the-inquiry into-general economic conditions antedating
and during the indictment period. In conclusion, we do
not think that there was an abuse of discretion by the

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

231

Opinion of the Court.

trial court in the exclusion of the proffered evidence. A
great mass of evidence was received, the range of -inquiry
was wide, the factual questions relating to the oil industry and respondents' activities were intricate and involved. In such a case a new trial will not be ordered for
alleged errors in exclusion of evidence where matters -of
substance are not affected. -See United States v. Trenton
Potteries Co., supra, p. 404.
VI. Use of The GrandJury Transcript.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the trial court
committed prejudicial error in refusing to permit defense
counsel to inspect the transcript of grand jury testi-"
mony used to refresh the recollection of certain witnesses
called by the government. Respondents here urge that
the use made of the grand jury transcript was error because (1) they were denied the right to inspect it, (2) it
had not been properly authenticated, (3) the reading of
the grand jury testimony must have led the jury to conclude that it was affirmative testimony, and (4) such
testimony was not given contemporaneously with the
occuriences to which it was related. And in all respects,
respondents contend that such use of the grand jury testimony was highly prejudicial.
There were about 90 instances when the government
used that testimony. In practically all those cases, the
witnesses were employees or representatives of respondents or former defendants, or were closely associated with
them. That most of them were hostile witnesses-evasive and reluctant to testify--clearly appears from a
reading of their entire testimony. Each of those witnesses'had testified before the grand jury which returned
the indictment in the case. At times counsel for the government would state to the court that he was suprised at
the witness' answer to a question and -thatit contradicted
testimony before the grand jury. More frequently

-

OCTOBER TERM. 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

counsel would ask the witness if his memory could be refreshed by his grand jury testimony. During the first
part of the trial government counsel apparently read some
grand jury testimony to two witnesses from his. notes.
After objection had been made, the court instructed
counsel to use the transcript. Soon thereafter, and early
in the trial, the court adopted the practice of inspecting
the transcript and itself seeking to refresh the witness'
recollection by reading from his prior testimony. At no
time was the transcript shown to the witness. At all
times respondents appropriately objected to the practice.
Throughout the trial the stated single reason for the
use of such prior testimony was the refreshment of the
witness' recollection. Counsel for the defense were ever
alert to denounce the practice, especially when it appeared that government counsel might seek to impeach
the witness. In such cases the court normally would
sustain the objection or admonish government counsel;
or the question and answer would be stricken. In many
instances where such testimony was used, the incident
ended by the witness merely saying that his recollection
had not been refreshed. In case it had been, he would
state what his present recollection was. Only in about
one-sixth of the instances was any inconsistency in testimony developed. In the -balance, recollection was
either not refreshed or the testimony which had been
given was wholly or substantially consistent with the preVious grand jury testimony.
During the trial the court told the jury:
"I have used some of the testimony and read some of
it for the purpose only of refreshing the witnesses' memories, and many times I have indicated that there was no
conflict or nothing inconsistent between the testimony of
the witness and the transcript of testimony. The only
reason we use this transcript of testimony of each .witness before the Grand Jury is to, if we can, refresh their

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUMt
150

OIL CO.

Opinion of the Court.

memories so as to enable them to recall correctly what the
fact is."
And the court made a similar statement, in its charge to
the jury.
As in case of leading questions, St. Clair v. United
States, 154 U. S. 134, 150, such use of grand jury testimony for the purpose of refreshing the recollection of a
witness rests in the sound discretion of the trial judge.
See Di Carlo v. United States, 6 F. 2d 364, 367-368;
Bosselman v. United States, 239 F. 82, 85; Felder v.
United States, 9 F. 2d 872. He sees the witness, can appraise his hostility, recalcitrance, and evasiveness or his
need for some refreshing material, and can determine
whether or not under all the circumstances the use of
grand jury minutes is necessary or appropriate for refreshing his recollection. As once stated by Judge Hough,
"The bald fact that the memory refreshing words are
found in the records of a grand jury is not a valid objection." Felder v. United States, supra, p.-874. Normally,
of course, the material so used must be shown to opposing
counsel upon demand, if it is handed to the witness.
Morrisv. United States, 149 F. 123, 126; Lennon v. United
States, 20 F. 2d 490, 493-494; Wigmore, Evidence (2d
ed.), § 762. And the reasons are that only in that way can
opposing counsel avoid the risks of imposition on and
improper communication with the witness, and "detect
circumstances not appearing on the surface" and "expose
all that detracts from the weight of testimony." See 2
Wigmore, supra, p. 42. The first of these reasons has no
relevancy here. And as to the second, no iron-clad rule
requires that opposing counsel be shown the grand jury
transcript where it is not shown the witness and where
some appropriate procedure is adopted to prevent its
improper use; That again is a matter which rests in the
sound discretion of the court. Grand jury testimony is
ordinarily -confidential. See Wigmore, supra, § 2362.

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1939,
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

But after the grand jury's functions are ended, disclosure
is wholly proper where the ends of justice require it. See
Metzler v. United States, 64 F. 2d 203, 206. Since there.
is no inexorable rule which under all circumstances entitles the witness and his counsel to see the prior statement made under oath and since in this case the court
itself examined and thus directly controlled the use of the,
grand jury testimony, we cannot say that the refusal to
make it available to counsel for the defense is per se
reversible error. To hold that itwas error in the instances
here- under review would be to find abuse of 'discretion,
where in fact we conclude from the entire record on this
phase of the case that the judge supervised the procedure
with commendable fairness. In sum, the selective use of
this testimony and the precautions taken -bythe trial
judge make it impossible for us to say that he transcended
the limits of sound discretion in permitting it to be used
by the government without making it available to the
defense.
If the record showed that the refreshing material was
deliberately used for purposes not material to the issues
but to arouse the passions of the jurors, so that an objective appraisal of the evidence was unlikely, there would
be reversible error. Likewite there would be error where
under the pretext of refreshing a witness' recollection,
the prior testimony was introduced as evidence. Rosenthal v. United States, 248 F. 684, 686. But here the
grand jury testimony was used simply to refresh the
recollection on material facts, New York & Colorado
Mining Syndicate & Co. v. Fraser,130 U. S. 611, not as
independent affirmative evidence. Bates v. Preble, 151
U. S. 149. Furthermore, it was not used for impeachment purposes; and the content of this refreshing material related solely to conversations and events relevant to
tl .formation and execution of the buying programs.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

-

Opinion of the Court.

In addition, it clearly appears that the use of this
material was not prejudicial. So far as the subject matter
of the inquiry is concerned, that prior testimony was
either cumulative or dealt only with the minutiae of the
conspiracy. The record minus that testimony clearly
establishes all the facts necessary for proof of the illegal
conspiracy. No portion of it was dependent on the
minor facts concetning which the memory of these witnesses was refreshed." Hence, the situation is vastly different from those cases where essential ingredients of the
crime were dependent on testimony elicited in that manner or where the evidence of guilt hung in delicate balance if that testimony was deleted. See Little.v. United
States, 93 F. 2d 401; Putnam v. United States, 162 U. S.
687. Hence assuming, arguendo, that there was error in
the-use of the prior testimony, to order a new trial would
be to violate the standards of § 269 of the Judicial Code
(28 U. S. C. § 391), since the "substantial rights" of,
respondents were not affected. There are no vested individual rights in the ordinary rules of evidence; their observance should not be reduced to an idle ceremony.
' Respondents strongly urge that this is not true in the case of the
testimony of an employee of one of the trade journals. His prior
testimony indicated (1) that the major companies were buying exactly at the journal quotations, so that the graph of those quotations
represented prices paid under the buying program; (2) that prices
paid by the majors "outweighed" the jobbers' sales reported to his
journals. At the trial he testified that those grand jury statements
were not true. And they were not. But those matters are not essential issues in the case. That purchases under the buying program
did not lead the market up, that the vast majority of purchases were
at or below the low quotations, that the volume of purchases did not'
eliminate all competition, that the spot market prices were still determined by competitive forces, that the volume of purchases under the
buying programs was relatively small are wholly immaterial, as we
have seen.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court..

310 U. S.

Putnam v. United States, supra, held it was prejudicial
error to use grand jury minutes to refresh the memory
of a witness unless that testimony was contemporaneous
with the occurrences as to which the witness was testifying. There the testimony before the grand jury was more
than four months after the occurrence. This Court held
that because of that lapse of time the testimony was not
contemporaneous. Whatever may be said of the Putnam
case on the merits (see Wigmore, supra, § 761) it does
not establish an inflexible four-months' period of limitation. There'the event was a single isolated conversation,
most damaging to the defendant. Here there was a continuing conspiracy extending at least up to the period
when the witnesses were testifying before the grand jury.
Much of the testimony related to events a year or more
old. But in the main those matters were woven into
the conspiracy, related to events in which the witness
actively participated, concerned the regular business matters with which he was familiar, pertained to his regular
employment, or constituted admissions against interest.
On these facts we do not think there was an abuse of
discretion on the part of the trial judke in permitting the
testimony to be used. Measured by the test of whether
or not the prior statement made under oath was reasonably calculated to revive the witness' present recollection
within the rule of the Putnam case, there certainly cannot
be said to have been error as a matter of law.
Respondents say that the manner employed in refreshing the recollection of the witnesses was bound to inculcate in the minds of the jurors the feeling that the
witnesses were testifying falsely or were concealing the
truth. But here again, we find no reversible error. The
trial judge, as we have said, was alert to stop impeachment. And in view of the obvious hostility and evasiveness of most of those witnesses, we cannot say that the
judge transcended the bounds of discretion in permitting

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

their memories to be refreshed in this manner. "As is
true of most that takes place in a trial, the right result
is a matter of degree, and depends upon the sense of
measure of the judge." See United States v. Freundlich,
95 F. 2d 376, 379.
VII. Arguments to the Jury by Government Counsel.
Respondents complain of certain statements made to
the jury by government counsel. Their objections are
that government counsel (1) appealed to class prejudice;
and (2) requested a conviction regardless of the evidence
because the prosecution was convinced of respondents'
guilt and because a conviction "was the wish and the
desire of the highest officials in the Government of the
United States."
Under the first of these, they point to the opening
statement that this conspiracy involved some of the "biggest men" in the country-big in the sense of, "controlling
vast volumes of financial influence"; and that it is a
"terrible thing that a group of influential, wealthy millionaires or billionaires should take over the power, take
over the control, the power to make prices." At the close
of those opening remarks and on objection of defense
counsel the court counselled the jury that "any reference
to the wealth of any of the defendants is entirely immaterial. A man of wealth has just as much standing in a
court as a man that is poverty stricken."
But respondents complain that in the closing arguments the same matter was referred to again as follows:
"A hundred lawyers employed-the very cream of the
American Bar, the very best legal taent that these people can obtain-every one of them working night and
day with suggestions as to how the red herring can be
drawn across the clear cut issue in this case"; that it
should not be taken for granted "that these more powerful people are above the law and can't be reached and

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

can't be brought to book"; that the "fear of corporate
power in combination" is part of the 'American tradition
as illustrated by a speech made in 1873 by a Wisconsin
judge, who said: "There is looming up a new and dark
power . .
The acciumulation of individual wealth
seems to be greater than it ever has been since the downfall of the Roman Empire. The-enterprises of the country are . . . coldly marching, not for economic conquests
only, but for political power . .. money is taking the
field as an organized power, The question will arise ...
which shall rule, wealth or man? Which shall lead,
money or intellect? Who shall fill the public stations,
educated and patriotic free men, or the futile serfs of
corporate capital?" But as to these statements no objection was made at the time by defense counsel.
There were other such references e. g., "malefactors of
great wealth," "eager, grasping men" or corporations who
"take the law into their own hands . . . without any
consideration for the under-dog or the poor man . . .
We are going to stop it, as our forefathers stopped it
before us and left this country with us as it is now, or
we are going down into ruin as did the Roman Empire."
Counsel for the defense objected to these statements as
improper and prejudicial: The court overruled the objections stating it would' deal with the matter in its
charge to the jury. In its charge the court warned
against convicting a corporation "solely because of its
size or the extent of its business"; that it was "your duty
to give these corporations the same impartial consideration" as an individual or small corporation would receive; and instructed the jurors not to be concerned "with
the financial condition of any of these defendants.
Whether a man berich or poor, he is entitled to the same
consideration in this Court."
On this phase of the matter several observations are
pertinent. In the first place, counsel for the defense

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

cannot as a rule remain silent, interpose no objections,
and after a verdict has been returned seize for the first
time on the point that the comments to the jury were
improper and prejudicial. See Crumpton v. United
States, 138 U. S. 361, 364. Of course appellate courts
"in the public interest, may, of their own motion, notice
errors to which no exception has been taken, if the errors
are obvious, or if they otherwise seriously affect the fairness, integrity or public reputation of judicial proceedings." See United States v. Atkinson, 297 U. S. 157, 160.
But as we point out hereafter, the exceptional circumstances which call for an invocation of that rule are not
present here. In the second place, it is not improper in a
Sherman Act case to discuss corpora'te power, its use and
abuse, so long as those statements are relevant to the
issues at hand. For that subject is material to the philosophy of that Act. Its purposes and objectives are
clearly legitimate subjects for discussion before the jury.
But, thirdly, appeals to class prejudice are highly improper and cannot be condoned and trial courts should
ever be alert to prevent them. Some of the statements
to which respondents now object fall in this class. They
were, we think, undignified and intemperate. They do
not comport with the standards, of propriety to be expected of the prosecutor. But it is quite another thing to
say that these statements constituted prejudicial error.
In the first place, it is hard for us to imagine that the
minds of the jurors would be so influenced by such incidental statements during this long trial that they would
iot appraise the evidence objectively and dispassionately.
In the second place, this was not a weak case as was
Berger v. United States, 295 U. S. 78, where this Court
held that prejudice to the accused was so highly probable
as a result of the prosecutor's improper conduct "that
we are not justified in assuming its non-existence."
(p. 89.) Cf. New Yo,,. Central R. Co. v. Johnson, 279

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

U. S. 310. Of course, appeals to passion and prejudice
may so poison the minds of jurors even in a strong case
that an accused may be deprived of a fair trial. But
each case necessarily turns on its own facts. And where,
as here, the record convinces us that these statements
were minor aberrations in a prolonged trial and not cumulative evidence of a proceeding dominated by passion
and prejudice, reversal would not promote the ends of

justice.
Under the second of these objections, respondents complain of the plea to the jury not to "let your Government
and the United States and its citizens and society down,"
and that government counsel "believe to the bottom of
their hearts in the justice of the cause that they espouse
here." No objection at that time was made by defense
counsel. But they did object at the trial to the statements by government counsel,. ". . . do you honestly
think that these boys here (government counsel) . ..
would be trying to convict these men unless that was the
wish and the desire of the highest officials in the government of the United States?"; "You don't think the government of the United States would allow four or five
lawyers to come out here and prosecute this case against
them, against their wishes, or that the Secretary of the
Department of the Interior would allow us to do it, if he
didn't want it done?" The court overruled the objections
stating, "I suppose we have a right to assume that they
are here under the instructions of the Attorney General
of the United States." Respondents further complain
of the statements that the evidence is "so overwhelming
and overpowering that it doesn't even leave the trace
or the shadow of a doubt"; that if "you are going to say
they are not guilty on this evidence, then you take the
responsibility, I won't; you get an alibi, I won't"; that
the hundreds of thousands of dollars spent by the government "in trying to get before you the facts" should not be

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

"thrown to the winds" nor should these men "go clear."
But no objection was mniip, at, the time by defense
counsel.
As respects the statement that it was the "wish and
the desire of the highest officials" in the government to
have defendants convicted, some background should be
given. This came near the end of the closing arguments.
In the opening statement, during the trial, and in the
closing arguments the defense continuously emphasized
the knowledge and acquiescence by government officials
of the buying programs. As we have noted, that was
one of the main lines of defense. From the beginning of
the trial to the end, the defense sought to prove, not official approval in the legal sense, but official acquiescence
or at least condonation. Bald statements were made
that respondents "were conducting a program which resulted from the instigation and inducement of the Government itself"; after the Schechter case they endeavored
to "stabilize marketing practices" at the "instance of officials of the Oil Administration"; "what was done by
these defendants was done for the purpose of accomplishing the objectives and purposes of the National Industrial Recovery Act, and was undertaken at the request
and pursuant to the authorization of the Secretary of the
Interior, Mr. Ickes, the Administrator of the Petroleum
Code"; respondents "acted to carry out the purposes and
objectives sought by the Government and initiated by
the Government . . . They were objectives defined by
the President of the United States. They were purposes,
the accomplishment of which the Secretary of the Interior had been charged, under his oath, to seek to obtain";
"with all this backing and all this help from the government, and all this urging from the government, are you
going to brand these men as just selfish individuals?"
On innumerable instances the impression was sought to
be conveyed by subtle intimation, inference or suggestion

242

OCTOBER TERI, 193.9.
Opinion of ihe Court.

310 U.S.

that responsibility for these buying programs should be
placed on the shoulders of high government officials.
Government counsel accordingly justified his statement
on the grounds that it denied what the defense had continuously stated, viz., that the buying programs were
conducted with the consent and approval of the Secretary
of the Interior. At a subsequent point in the- closing
arguments government counsel again referred to the matter. On objection of defense counsel he withdrew the
statement. And the court instructed the jury to disregard it, saying "This prosecution was commenced at the
instigation of the Attorney General of the United States."
In view of these various circumstances we do not think
that the above statements were prejudicial. Standing
by themselves they appear to be highly improper. Even
as a rebuttal. to the defense which had been interposed
throughout the trial, they overstep the bounds. But in
view of the justification which respondents sought to
establish for their acts, the subject matter of these statements was certainly relevant. The fact that government
counsel transgressed in his rebuttal certainly cannot be
said to constitute prejudicial error. For a reading of the
entire argument before the jury leads to the firm conviction that the comments Wvhich respondents now rely on
for their assertions of error were isolated, casual episodes
in a long summation of over 200 printed pages and not at
all reflective of the quality of the argument as a whole.
Respondents further urge as prejudicial error the asser-tions by government counsel of personal knowledge in
contradiction of the record for the purpose of discrediting
an important defense witness. The statement of government counsel was that in "1935 and 1936, you couldn't
get a rowboat up the Mississippi River, north of Winona."
Respondents contend that testimony as to navigability
of that river was vitally material as establishing such
outside competition as would have prevented them from

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

.raising prices to artificial and non-competitive levels.
But such testimony was wholly irrelevant, since the.

reasonableness of the prices was not properly an issue in
the case. Furthermore, when objection was made to the
remark, counsel withdrew it and the jury was instructed
to disregard it. That must be deemed to have cured the

error if it could be considered such. As stated in Dunlop
v. United States, 165 U. S. 486, 498, "If every remark
made by counsel outside of the testimony were ground
for a reversal, comparatively few Verdicts. would
stand."
VIII. Granting of New Trials to Some Defendants.
Respondents contend that the trial court committed
reversible error in granting new trials to some defendants
and denying them to respondents.
The court charged the jury that it could convict any
of the defendants found to have been members of the
combination and that it need not convict all or none.
As has been noted, the jury found sixteen corporations
and thirty individuals guilty. Thereafter the court discharged one corporation and ten individuals, and granted
new trials to three corporations and fifteen individuals.
Such action left the verdict standing as to only twelve
corporations and five individuals. The trial court gave
as its reason for granting some of the defendants a new
trial its belief that they had not had "an adequate separate consideration of their defense, in view of the fact
that as to some of them direct evidence of participation
was lacking or slight, and the circumstantial evidence
viewed as a whole may well have obscured other facts
and circumstances shown, in some cases, to be highly suggestive of innocence, and in all cases entitled to be considered and weighed." United States v. Standard Oil
Co., (Indiana), 23 F. Supp. 937, 939. In denying the
motions of respondents for a new trial it stated (p. 944)
that there was "evidence to go to the j ary and to sustain

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Cohrt.

310 U. S.

its verdict as to every essential charge in the indictment"
as to them.2
Respondents' argument runs as follows: The court
charged the jury that it was the purpose and the power
of the combination to raise prices which were material.
Hence the fact that the jury found that the entire group
possessed such power does not necessarily mean that the
jury would have found that respondents acting alone possessed such power. Since the jury did not consider that
issue, it is argued that denial -of a new trial to respondents
violates their constitutional right to a jury trial. And
In this connection the court said (p. 944) that it appeared "without dispute that, a concerted buying movement took place in the
Mid-Continent field"; that as to its character and the existence of a
concerted East Texas program, there was "ample evidence to take
the case to the jury"; and that the proofs were sufficient to sustain
the verdict as to the charge that defendants "were able to and did
effectually tie the jobbers' price" in the Mid-Western area to the
tank car price in the spot market. It significantly added (p. 944):
"It is claimed by the defendants that they did not have the power to
control the price as charged, and that inasmuch as some of the large
companies did not or have not been shown to have participated in
the movement, the power of the defefidants in that respect was inadequate for the purpose. This does not follow, for the reason that
large buyers both in East Texas and in the Mid-Continent fields,
while acting separately, were nevertheless buying for their requirements in these fields, as they had always done and as defendants had
every reason to believe they would continue to do. The defendants
were thus able to consider that these buyings would necessarily reduce the available gasoline which they proposed to take off the market just as effectively as though these other companies had joined in
the program. The amount of distress gasoline would be exactly the
same in any event, and the proof shows that the surplus was in fact
a very small part of the total, so much so that most of the defendants
have shown that its acquisition in addition to other buying did not
materially increase their inventories. I am satisfied that there was
ample evidence to sustain the contention of the Government that the
defendants did have power to control the market, and that they did
so, as charged."

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

in support of their contention, respondents insist, that
Standard of Indiana alone (one of the defendants granted
a new trial) possessed such power as would make it impossible for them to raise prices without its agreement and
coperation.
Respondents' argument does not focus sharply the basic
and essential elements of the offense and of the instructions to the jury. As we have stated above, the offense
charged in this indictment was proved once it was established that any of the defendants conspired to fix prices
through the buying programs and that those programs
caused or contributed to the price rise. Power of the
combination to fix prices was therefore but a conclusion
from the fact that the combination did fix prices. Hence
in that posture of the case, the issue here is whether
or not the finding of the jury that the buying programs
affected prices was necessarily dependent on the participation in those programs of all who were convicted.
Obviously it was not. The order granting new trials
in no manner impeached or questioned the evidence as
to the total spot market purchases made by all companies
(whether defendants, co-conspirators or others). Cf.
Bartkus v. United States, 21 F. 2d 425. In their efforts
to place a floor under the spot markets respondents assuredly received benefits and assistance from the purchases made by other companies. And the amount of
benefit and assistance received did not necessarily depend on whether or not those other companies were coconspirators. Market manipulators commonly obtain
assistance from the activities of the innocent as well as
from those of their allies. The fact that they may
capitalize on the purchases of others is no more significant
than the fact that they may gain direct or collateral benefits from market trends, bullish factors or fortuitous circumstances. And the mere fact that those circumstances

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court..

310 U. S.

might have changed, and ,that Standard of Indiana., say,
might have substantiallyimpaired the effect of the buying
programj on prices by a change in its retail policies was
as irrelevant as was the- chance -that the Connally Act
might have been repealed. The effect of the concerted
activities was not rebutted by the fact that changes in
events might-have destroyed that effect.
Nor did the case against respondents automatically fall
when three of the corporate defendants 6 3 were awarded
a new trial. We have here a situation quite different
from that where the participation of those to whom a new
trial was granted or against whom the judgment of conviction was reversed 'was necessary for the existence of
the crime charged. See Gebardi *v. United States, 287
15. S. 112; Morrison v. California,291 U. S. 82; King v.
Plummer [1902], 2 K. B. 339. In this case the crime was
not indivisible (cf. Queen v. Gompertz, 9 A. & E. (N. S.)
824; Feder v. United States, 257 F. 694) in the sense that
the existence of a conspiracy under the Sherman Act was
necessarily dependent on the cobineration of the other defendants with respondents. Nor was the case submitted
to the jury on the assumption .that the participation of
any of the corporations which were granted new trials
was indispensable to the finding of a conspiracy among
the rest. As we have seen, the court charged that the
jury could convict any of the defendants found to have
been members of the combination and that it need not
convict all or none. It was the existence of a combina-'
tion and the participation in it of all or some of the defendants which were important, not the identity of each
'The question of the effect of the buying programs on market
prices obvioiisly concerns only the corporate defendants. The one
corporate defendant granted after verdict, a directed verdict of acquittal was The Globe Oil & Refining Co. (Kansas). The record
does not show that"this company made any spot market purchases in
1935 or 1936.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

Opinion of the Court.

and every participant. A conspiracy under the Sherman
Act may embrace two or more individuals or corporations. Conviction of some need not await the apprehension and conviction of all. The erroneous conviction of
one does not necessarily rebut the finding that the others
participated. The theory of the charge- to the jury was
not that the defendants must be convicted, if at all, as a
body; rather the issue of guilt was distributive; the
identity of all the co-conspirators was irrelevant.
. In a Sherman Act case, as in other conspiracy cases,
the grant of a new trial to some defendants and its denial
to others is not per se reversible error. After the jury's
verdict has been set aside as respects some of the alleged
co-conspirators, the remaining ones cannot seize on that
action as grounds for the granting of a new trial to them,
unless they can establish that such action was so clearly
prejudicial to them that the denial of their motions constituted a plain abuse of discretion. See Dufour v. United
States, 37 App. D. C. 497, 510-511; State v. Christianson,
131 Minn. 276, 280; 154 N. W. 1095; Commonwealth v.
Bruno, 324 Pa. 236, 248; 188 A. 320; People v. Kuland,
266 N. Y. 1; 193 N. E. 439; Browne. v. United States,
145 F. 1. There is a complete lack of any showing of
abuse of discretion here, for no prejudice has been established.
Hence this case falls within the well-established rule
that neither this Court nor the Circuit Court of Appeals
will review the action of a federal trial court in granting
or denying a motion for a new trial for error of fact, since
such action is a matter within the discretion of the trial
court. Fairmount Glass Works v. Cub Fork Coal Co.,
287 U. S. 474. Certain exceptions have been noted, such
as instances where the trial court has "erroneously excluded from consideration matters which were appropriate to a decision on the motion." Fairmount Glass
Works v. Cub Fork Coal Co., supra, p. 483. But there

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

are no such circumstances here. No iota of evidence has
been adduced that the trial court in denying respondents'
motions failed to take into consideration the effect of
the buying programs on gasoline prices in 'the MidWestern area. In fact' it seems apparent that the trial_
court considered that issue and ruled thereon-adversely to
respondents. It concluded in substance that whoever
may have been all the members of the conspiracy, there
was ample evidence to go to the jury on the nature and
effect of these programs.
Certainly, denial of a motion for a new trial, on the
grounds that the verdict was against the weight of the
evidence would not be subject to review. Moore v.
United States, 150 U. S. 57, 61-62; J. W. Bishop Co. v.
Shelhorse, 141 F. 643, 648; O'Donnell v. New York
Transp. Co., 187 F. 109, 110. In substance no more than
that is involved here.
IX. Variance.
By their cross petition respondents contend that there
was a fatal variance between the agreement charged in
the indictment and the agreement proved, with a consequent violation, of respondents' rights under the Sixth
Amendment.
As we have noted, certain trade journals were made
defendants. The indictment charged that they were "the
chief agencies and instrumentalities" through which the
illegally raised prices affected prices paid for gasoline in
the Mid-Western area; that they "knowingly published
and circulated as such price quotations the wrongfully
and artificially raised and fixed prices for gasoline paid
by" defendants in the buying programs, while "representing the price quotations published by them" to be gasoline prices "prevailing in spot sales to jobbers in tank
car lots" and while "knowing and intending them to be
relied on as such by jobbers and to be made the basis of
prices to jobbers."

U. S. v. SOCONY--VACUUM OIL CO.
150

249

Opinion of the Court.

At the close of the government's case'the indictment
was dismissed, on-motion of the government, as against
all trade journal defendants who went to trial. This was
clearly proper, as the evidence adduced exculpated them
from any wrongdoing. But respondents contend that the
device charged in the indictment was one by which respondents were to pay higher than the actual spot market
prices 'for their purchases and then to substitute in the
trade journal quotations such prices for the lower prices
actually paid by jobbers in spot market sales. Since
there was failure of proof on this point of falsification,
it is argued that there was a variance. For, according
to respondents, that feature was an integral and essential part of the plan as charged.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that there
was no variance. Analysis of the indictment which we
have set forth, supra, pp. 166-170, makes it clear that the
charge against respondents was separate from and independent of the charge against the trade journals and that
the allegations against those journals constituted not the
only means by which the conspiracy was to be effectuated
but only one of several means (supra, pp. 167-168). In
effect, those charges in the indictment sought to connect
the trade journals with the conspiracy as aiders and
abettors. On the other hand, the gist of the indictment
charged a conspiracy by defendants (1) to raise and fix
the spot market prices and (2) thereby to raise and fix
the prices in the Mid-Western area. So far as means and
methods of accomplishing those objectives were concerned, the charge of falsification of the trade journal
quotations was as unessential as was the charge, likewise
unproved, that defendants caused the independent refiners
to curtail their production. The purpose and effect of the
buying programs in raising and fixing prices were in no
way made dependent on the utilization of fraudulent
trade journal quotations. As charged, the trade journals

OCTOBER TERM. 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

were the chief instrumentalities by which the spot market prices were converted into prices in the Mid-Western
area.' Hence under this indictment they were wholly
effective for respondents' purposes, though they were innocent and though their quotations, were not falsified as
charged. A variation between the means charged and
the means utilized is hot fatal. 'And where an indictment
charges various means by which the conspiracy is effectuated, not all of them need be proved. See Nash v. United
States, 229 U. S. 373, 380. Cf. Boyle v. United States, 259
F.'803, 805.
X. Jurisdictionor Venue.
The Sixth Amendment provides that the accused shall
be tried "by an impartial jury of the State and district
wherein the crime shall have been committed." Respondents contend that the district court for the Western
District of Wisconsin had no jurisdiction or venue. to,
try them since the crime was not committed in that district. The Circuit Court of Appeals held to the contrary,
one judge dissenting.
As we have noted, the indictment charged that the
defendants (1) conspired together to raise and fix the
prices on the spot markets; (2) raised, fixed, and maintained those prices at artificially high and non-competitive levels and "thereby intentionally increased and fixed
the tank car prices of gasoline contracted to be sold and
sold in interstate commerce as aforesaid in the MidWestern area (including the Western District of Wisconsin)"; (3) have "exacted large sums of money from
thousands of jobbers" in the Mid-Western area by reason
of the provisions of the prevailing form of jobber contracts
which made the price to the jobber dependent on the average spot market price; and (4) "in turn have intentionally raised the general level of retail prices prevailing in
said Mid-Western area."

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
15O

Opinion of the Court.

I As we have seen, there was substantial competent evidence that the buying programs resulted in an increase
of spot market prices, of prices to jobbers and of retail
prices in the Mid-Western area. And it is clear that certain corporate respondents sold gasoline during this period
in the Mid-Western area at the increased prices. The
court charged the jury that even though they found that
defendants had the purpose and power to raise the spot
market prices, they must acquit the defendants unless
they also found and believed beyond a reasonable doubt
that defendants "have also intentionally raised and fixed
the tank car price of gasoline contracted to be sold and
which was sold in interstate commerce in the Mid-Western area, including the Western District of Wisconsin."
It also charged that it was not enough, "for the prosecution to show an increase in the tank car prices of gasoline
within said area, but you must also fnd and believe beyond a reasonable doubt and to a moral certainty that the
defendants combined and conspired together or with
others for the purpose of increasing and fixing the same
as well as for the purpose of raising and fixing the' tank
car prices in said spot markets, on oie or more of them."
It further charged that the jury in order to convict must
find some overt acts in the Western District of Wisconsin;
and that sales of gasoline therein by any of the defendants
would constitute such overt acts.
Respondents, though agreeing that there were such
sales in the Mid-Western area and that the prices on
such sales were affected by the rise in the spot markets,
deny that they,,were overt acts in pursuance of the conspiracy. Rather, they contend that each of such sales was
an individual act of a particular conspirator in the ordinary course of-his business by which he enjoyed the results
of a conspiracy carried out in another district. That is to
say, they take the position that the alleged conspiracy
was limited to a restraint of competition in buying and

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

selling on the spot markets and included no joint agreement or understanding as respects sales in the Mid-Western area. In support of this view they cite the government's concessions that it "does not claim that each defendant 'entered into an agreement -not to sell jobbers
except in accordance with' the contract described in Paragraph 11 of the Indictment"; " and that it does not contend that defendants were "sitting around a table and
agreeing on a uniform retail price." And they assert that
there was no evidence that respondents agreed not to sell
gasoline in the Western District of Wisconsin except on
the basis of spot market prices.
Conspiracies under the Sherman Act are on "the common law footing": they are not dependent on the "doing
of any act other than the act of conspiring" as a condition
of liability. Nash v. United States,'supra,at'p. 378. But
since there was nd evidence that the conspiracy was
formed within the Western District of Wisconsin, the
trial court was without jurisdiction unless some act pursuant to the conspiracy took place there. United States
v. Trentbn Potteries Co., supra, pp. 402-403, and cases
cited. We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that
The standard form of jobber contract referred to in par. 11 of the
indictment was described therein as follows: "The price of gasoline
to the jobber shall be the average spot market price, determined by
averaging the high and low spot market prices for gasoline of comparable octane rating published by defendant Platt's Oilgram, for the
Tulsa, Oklahoma, market, and by defendant Chicago Journal of Commerce on date of shipment. If the average spot market price plus
freight to destination shall allow the buyer a margin of less than 51/20
per gallon below the service station price posted by defendant Standard of Indiana, then the buyer and the seller shall share equally in
the deficit below a 51/2 margin. In certain States in which the
Standard of Indiana has recently discontinued the posting of retail
prices, such jobber margins have been calculated on the basis of a
margin of 20 below the deaier tank wagon prices posted by the
Standard of Indiana (such tank wagon prices having usually been
311_, below the posted retail prices)."

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

253

Opinion of the Court.

there was ample evidence of such overt acts in that district. The finding of the jury on this aspect of the case
was also supported by substantial evidence. As we indicated in our discussion of the buying programs, there was
suficient evidence to go to the jury that the conspiracy
did not end with an agreement to make purchases on the
spot markets; that those buying programs were but part
of the wider stabilization efforts of respondents; that the
chief end and objective were the raising and maintenance
of Mid-Western prices at higher levels. As stated by
the Circuit Court of Appeals a different conclusion would
require a belief that respondents were "engaged in a
philanthropic endeavor." They obviously were not.
The fact that no uniform jobbers' contract and no uniform retail price policy were agreed upon is immaterial.
The objectives of the conspiracy would fail if respondents did not by some formula or method relate their sales
in the Mid-Western area to the spot market prices. The
objectives of the conspiracy would also fail if respondents,
contrary to the philosophy of all the stabilization efforts,
indulged in price cutting and price *wars. Accordingly,
successful consummation of the conspiracy necessarily involved an understanding or agreement, however informal,
to maintain such improvements in Mid-Western prices
as would result from the purchases of distress gasoline.
The fact that that entailed nothing more than adherence
to prior practice of relating those prices to the spot market is of course immaterial. In sum, the conspiracy contemplated and embraced, at least by clear implication,
sales to jobbers and consumers in the Mid-Western area
at the enhanced prices. The making of those sales supplied part of the "continuous coperation" necessary to
keep the conspiracy alive. See United States v. Kissel,
218 U. S.601, 607. Hence, sales by any one of the respondents in the Mid-Western area bound all. For a
conspiracy is a partnership in crime; and an "overt act

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
RoB ars, J., dissenting.

310 U.S.

of one partner may be the act of all without any new
agreement specifically directed to that act.' United
States v. Kissel, supra, p. 608.

XI. Respondent McElroy.
Respondent McElroy argues that the judgment of conviction rendered against him should be reversed and the
indictment dismissed not only for the reasons heretofore
discussed, but more specifically on the grounds that there
was no substantial evidence that he had any knowledge
of and participated in 'the unlawful conspiracy. His motion for a directed verdict, at the conclusion of the case
was denied by the trial court and the Circuit Court of
Appeals held that there was no error in such denial. A
question of law is thus raised, which entails an examination of the record, not for the purpose of weighing the
evidence but only to ascertain whether there was some
competent and substantial evidence before the jury fairly
tending to sustain the verdict. Abrams v. United States,
250 U. S. 616, 619; Troxell v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co.,
227 U. S. 434, 444; Lancaster v. Collins, 115 U. S. 222,
225. We have carefully reviewed the record for evidence
of McElroy's knowledge of and participation in the conspiracy. But without burdening the opinion with a detailed exposition of the evidence on this point, we are of
opinion that there was no error in the denial of his motion.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.
The C=F JUSTICE and MR. JusTicE MuRPHY did not

participate in the consideration or decision of this case.
dissenting:
I regret that I am unable to agree to the court's decision. I think that for various reasons the judgment of
the District Court should not stand.
MR. JusTicE ROBERTS,

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

ROBERTS,

255

J., dissenting.

The opinion fully and fairly sets forth the facts proved
at the trial, and to its statement nothing need be added.
Some of the reasons for my inability to agree with the
court's conclusions follow:
The Government relied for venue in the Western District of Wisconsin upon the commission in that district
of overt acts in aid of the alleged common enterprise. I
think the indictment fails to allege, and the evidence fails
to disclose, the commission of any such act in the district
of trial. I agree with the dissenting judge in the Circuit
Court of Appeals that the case should be dismissed for
this reason.
Paragraph 17 of the indictment alleges that the spot
market tank car prices of gasoline substantially influence
the retail prices.
Paragraph 18 is the only one that defines the charged
conspiracy. It alleges that the defendants and others,
knowing the facts pleaded by way of inducement (including the fact that tetail prices follow spot market tank car
prices), "combined and conspired together for the purpose of artificially raising and fixing the tank car prices
of gasoline in the aforementioned spot markets, and,
as intended by them, defendants have artificially raised
and fixed such spot market tank car prices of gasoline and
have maintained such prices at artificially high and noncompetitive levels and at levels agreed upon among them
and have thereby intentionally increased and fixed the
tank car prices of gasoline contracted to be sold, and sold,
in interstate commerce as aforesaid in the Midwestern
area (including the Western District of Wisconsin), ...
It is further alleged that the defendants have arbitrarily,
due to the form of their contract I with jobbers, exacted
'The form and use of this contract is described in paragraph 11 of
the indictment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
ROBERTs, J., dissenting.

310 U. S.

large sums of money from jobbers and, in turn, have intentionally raised the general level of retail prices in
the midwestern area (including the Western District of
Wisconsin).
The sole and only conspiracy charged is the agreement
artificially to raise and fix spot market tank car prices
of gasoline in the Mid-Continent field.
Paragraph 19 is devoted to the means by which the
conspiracy thus described was "effectuated." The conduct of the defendants'in this respect is described as their
engaging and participating in two concerted gasoline buying programs, one, the East Texas buying program, and
the other the Mid-Continent biying program, for the
purchase by each of them from independent refiners in
spot transactions of large quantities of gasoline in the
East Texas and Mid-Continent fields.
After describing these buying programs in subsequent
paragraphs, the indictment, in paragraph 25, alleges that
the conspiracy 'has operated and has been carried out in
part within the Western District of Wisconsin." The
method of its operation in that district is described as
follows: "In pursuance of said combination and conspiracy, defendant major oil companies (with the exception
of Standard of Indiana and Gulf) have contracted to sell
and have sold, and have delivered large quantities of gasoline in tank car lots to jobbers within said district at the
artificially raised and fixed and non-competitive prices
aforesaid and have arbitrarily exacted from jobbers within
said district large sums of money. Defendant major oil
companies (with the exception of Gulf) have solicited and
taken contracts and orders for said gasoline within said
district, sometimes by sales representatives located there,
which district has been an important market for their
product and they have required retail dealers and consumers in said districts to pay artificially increased prices
for gasoline as aforesaid, all by virtue of said combination

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

257

ROBEiRTS, J., dissenting.

and conspiracy and pursuant to the purposes and ultimate objectives thereof."
Thus, after describing the conspiracy as one to buy
on spot markets for the purpose of raising the price of
gasoline on those markets, the indictment purports to
charge, as overt acts, entirely unrelated transactions of
individual defendants in the resale of gasoline to jobbers
and at retail in the Western District of Wiscoisin.
There is no evidence in the record that any of the purchases made by the defendants pursuant to the conspiracy
was made in Wisconsin. But if the indictment could bear
the construction that the charged conspiracy involved
an agreement as to the terms of resale to jobbers and
retailers, proof was lacking to support any such alleged
agreement. Government counsel, both in pleading and
in admissions at trial, so conceded.
In its Bill of Particulars the Government said:
"The Government does not claim that each defendant
entered into an agreement not to sell jobbers except in
accordance with 'the contract described in paragraph 11
of the indictment.'"
At trial Government counsel repeatedly disavowed any
charge in the indictment or any claim of the Government
that there was an agreement amongst the defendants with
respect to the price at which gasoline should be sold to
jobbers or at retail. The evidence showed, without contradiction, that the Standard Oil Company of Indiana was
the market leader in this area, and that when it posted
its price none of the other defendants could sell at a higher
price. It further showed that at various times Standard
was forced to reduce its price to meet the competition of
others. In this connection Government counsel made the
following statements:
We do not say that the Standard of Indiana
"...
when it posts a retail price first consults with the other
companies to find out what retail price should be posted.

258"

OCTOBER TERM, -1939.
ROBERTS,

J, dis-enting.

310 U. S.

"If that is what you're worrying about, if you think
we're charging you with sitting around a table and agreeing on a uniform retail price, don't worry because that
isn't what we are charging."
In its brief in this court the Government attempts to
avoid the effect of these concessions by the statement that
the defendants "were not free to sell as they pleased in
the Midwestern areas" and adds that "an obligation to
adhere to their prior price practice of selling on the basis
of spot market prices was implicit in their unlawful agreement." This amounts to saying that the conspiracy was
not the one charged in the indictment but was a much
more ample conspiracy not only to raise the general level'
of. tank car prices on the spot market by purchasing on
that market but to raise, maintain; and fix uniform resale
prices to jobbers and retailers. But this contention does
not aid the Government for there is no evidence of any
agreement to raise, or to maintain, jobber and retail
prices, but, on the contrary, evidence that competition in
such sales existed during the period in question.
Situations arise, and results ensue, from the prosecution
of any agreement or conspiracy. Individual defendants
may expect benefits to follow from their adherence to a
conspiracy oragreement; but benefits or results, whether
anticipated or unforeseen, occurring after consummation
of the conspiracy, and because of it, are not overt acts
done in aid and furtherance of the conspiracy. The authorities to this effect are uniform.2
The Government relies on United States v. Prenton
Potteries Co., 273 U. S. 392. That case is clearly not
in pojnt. There the conspiracy was to fix the prices of
the commodity manufactured and sold by the defendants
and to adhere to the prices so fixed. This court held that
*Lonabaugh v. United States, 179 F. 476; United States v..Black,
160 F. 431; Rose v. St. Clair,28 F. 2d 189.

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

RoBmrts, J., dissenting.

a sale made, pursuant to that agreement, in the Southern
District of New York afforded venue in that district of
an indictment for violation of the Sherman Act. The
case would be apposite if the pleading and proof in the
instant case were of a conspiracy to fix and maintain
jobber and retail .prices and adherence to the agreement
in sales to jobbers and *retailers. Neither pleading nor
proof goes to any such conspiracy.
In accordance with the Government's contention, the
trial court repeatedly charged that, in order to convict,
the jury must find that a combifiation existed and that the
combination agreed to, and had the power to, raise
the tank car spot market price of gasoline. Of course, the
jury was at liberty -to find that any number bf the defendants less than all fulfilled the conditions named by
the court. By its verdict the jury found that those who
were convicted, as a body, (1) possessed the power to raise
the price and (2) agreed so to do. The trial court granted
a new trial to a number of defendants, including Standard
of Indiana, the largest major'bil company doing business
in the area.
Standard was granted a new trial on the ground that
there was no sufficient evidence to connect, it with the
conspiracy. By refusing new trials to the other corporate
defendants the court has entered its own verdict that the
others involved, excluding Standard, had the power, and
agreed, to raise the level of spot market prices in the Midwestern area. There is no jury verdict to that effect; no
jury has ever passed upon that question, but an affirmative finding on that question is vital to the guilt of the
-defendants now before us. To affirm the judgment of
conviction is to affirm a finding of fact by the trial judge
without a jury and to deny the respondents the right to
jury trial guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment of the
Constitution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
ROBERTS, J., dissentiDg.

310 U.S.

The court's instructions to the jury were that they
should return a 'verdict of guilty if they found that the
defendants' actions had-in any degree contributed to a rise
in gasoline prices. The defendants insisted that the test
was the effect of their combination upon-competition, and
that they could not be convicted -unless the jury found
that their agreement, and their conduct pursuant thereto,
unreasonably restrained competition in interstate
commerce.
There was substantial evidence that all the defendants
agreed to, or did, was to act in concert to eliminate distress gasoline; that such gasoline was a competitive evil
in that it tended to impair or destroy normal competition. There was substantial evidence that what they
agreed to, and did, neither fixed nor controlled prices nor
unreasonably affected normal competition and that their
cbnduct affected prices only in the sense that the purchase of distress gasoline at going prices permitted prices
to rise to a normal competitive level. There was no evidence that, as charged in the indictment, they agreed to,
or in fact did, fix prices. The Court of Appeals, as I
think, correctly held "that the substance of what. was accomplished and agreed on was that. the major companies
would purchase from the independent refiners the latter's
-surplus gasoline at going market prices."
I think the defendants were entitled to have the jury
charged that, in order to convict them, the jury must find
that, although defendants knew the result of their activitieswould be a rise in the level of prices, nevertheless, if
what they agreed to do, and did, had no substantial tendency to restrain competition in interstate commerce in
transactions in gasoline the verdict should be not guilty.
-As has been pointed out by this court, violation of the
antitrust -act depends upon the circumstances of indi-

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

vidual cases.' It is always possible to distinguish earlier
decisions by reference to the facts involved in them but,
in the course of decision in this court, certain principles
have been laid down to which, I think, the charge of the
court ran counter.
One of these firmly established principles is that concerted action to remove a harmful and destructive practice in an industry, even though such removal may have
the effect of raising the price level, is not offensive to the
Sherman Act if it is not intended and does not operate
unreasonably to restrain interstate commerce; and such
action, has been held not unreasonably to restrain commerce if, as here, it involves no agreement for uniform
prices but leaves the defendants free to compete with
each other in the matter of price
No case decided by this court has held a combination
illegal solely because its purpose or effect was to raise
prices. The criterion of legality has always been the purpose or effect of the combination unduly to restrain commerce.
I think Appalachian Coals, Inc. v. United States, 288
U. S. 344, a controlling authority sustaining the defendants' 6ontention that the charge foreclosed a defense
available to them under the Sherman Act. It is said that
their combination had the purpose and effect of putting a
floor under the spot market for gasoline. But that, was
See Maple Flooring Mfrs. Assn. v. United States, 268 U. S. 563,
570.
United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. -106, 178, 180;
United States v. Union Pacific R. Co., 226 U. S. 61, 84-85; American
Column & Lumber Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 377, 400, 417;
Maple Flooring Mfrs. Assn. v. United States, 268 U3. S. 563, 568;
Appalachian Coals, Inc. v. United States, 288 U. S. 344, 362-3, 373-4;
Sugar Institute v. United States, 297 U. S. 553, 597-8.

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
ROBERTS; J., dissenting.

810 U.S.-

precisely the purpose and effect of the plan in the Appalachian case.. True, the -means Adopted t6 overcome the
effect of the dumping of distress products on the market
were not the same in the two cases, but means are unimportant provided purpose and effect are lawful.
Ethyl Gaooline Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436,
is relied upon, but, in that case, as in United States v.
Trenton Potteries Co., 273-U. S. 392, ,maintenance of
prices fixed by agreement was involved. So also in Sugar
Institute 'v.Unit6d States, 297 U. S. 553, condemned
features of the common plan had to do with the maintenance of announced prices and the abstinence from selling certain sorts of sugar. The combinations or agreements in these cases specifically prevented competitive
pricing or took a commodity out of competition. This
is not such a case.
As i think, the error in the court's charge is well illustrated by the following instruction:
"If you should find that the defendants acting together,
and those independent refiners acting in concert with"
them, did not have the power to raise the level of spot
market prices in the spot markets referred to in the indictment, or that they did not combine for that purpose,
and if you should find also that the purchase of the said
gasoline by the defendants affected the spot market prices
only indirectly and incidentally, then you may consider
all the circumstances surrounding the activities of the defendants to determine whether they were intended to
and did merely eliminate abuses which tended to produce
destructive competition and restore competition to a
fairer base and produce fairer price levels. In such event,
you may conclude that the purchase of such gasoline in
the manner shown by the evidence was reasonable and
beneficial and not injurious to the public interest and
-that, therefore, the restraint of trade was not undue, and

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

not illegal, and you may acquit the defendants." (Italics
supplied.)
This was to tell the jury that, if they found the cui. bination had power and purpose to raise the general le 7el
of prices, they should convict without considering whether
the defendants' concert of action was inftended merely to
remove a source of destructive competition, and without
considering whether, as defendants contended and sought
to prove, other factors in the industry, over which they
had no control, limited their power to raise prices beyond
a level which would be the normal result of the removal
of the abuses engendered by the dumping of distress
gasoline.

I think that the closing address of counsel for the
Government is ground for setting aside the verdict.
It is true that to much that was- objectionable in that
address the defendants did not.objector, if they did,
failed to except. However,. they assigned error to the
whole of it and excepted to some of the more egregious
violations of the canons of fair comment. I am of opinion that a situation is presented, which regardless of the
technicalities of procedure, requires action by an appellate
court. But, in any event, portions which are the subject
of exception alone require a reversal of the judgment.
The final and closing address covers twenty-eight pages
of the record. About five refer to the facts in the case.
The balance consists largely of what the speaker himself
characterized as "clowning" and personal references to
counsel, parties, the court, and other subjects, the object
of which apparently was to distract attention from the
issues.
At many points counsel should have been stopped by
the court and warned against continuance of such tactics.
The Circuit Court of Appeals said as to this matter:

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

310 U. S.

"The Government does not undertake to justify much
of the argument and misconduct complained of, but it
earnestly insists that any error committed is not of a
reversible nature. As the case is to be reversed, there"
seems no occasion for us to make a determination in this
respect. We shall merely express the opinion that some
of the argument complained of was highly improper and
that taken in connection with the misuse of the Grand
Jiury testimony, heretofore discussed, would present a very
serious obstacle to the affirmance of the judgment."
I shall not quote those portions of the addres§ -which
are quoted or summarized in the opinion of the court.
It will suffice to make added reference to several portions.
One of the most reprehensible things a prosecutor cafn
do is to attempt to put into evidence before the jury his
own, and his colleagues', opinion as to the guilt of the
defendants he is prosecuting. Such a practice brings
before the jury the unsworn testimony of a sworn officer
of the Government. This fact lends it undue and improper weight and injects an element into the case which
is -so insidious and so impossible to counteract that trial
judges, in my experience, have never hesitated to withdraw a juror and declare, a mistrial because of this

violation of the canons.
In the closing address counsel said, to the jury:
"Now; if,, anybody doubts, if anybody has the least
shadbw of a doubt about the fact that these men [referring to Government counsel] believe to the bottom of
their hearts in the justice of the cause that they espouse
here, I can disabuse. their minds of that doubt at any
time. They have been aggressive, and they have been
forceful; their movements here have been intelligent,
well-timed; and, as I said, they have come into this court
room morning after morning, worn and tired almost to
'the breaking point. And it seemed to me that, I some
times got the feeling, coming as they did then before you

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

to present this evidence and this case, they were something like the Crusaders of old, saying 'God wills it, God
wills it.'"
Objection was not made by counsel for the defendants
at the time of this statement but when a somewhat similar statement was made a few moments later objection
was noted and exception taken. I think, however, that
the. offense was so flagrant that the court itself should
have intervened irrespective of any objection.
A little later these statements occurred:
"Now, just between yourselves, do you honestly think
that these boys here (indicating counsel at government
table) fired with the enthusiasm of crusaders, as I say,
and having given to this case every ounce of mental and
physical strength they have, and I myself have contributed, also, wouldf be trying to convict these men unless
that was the wish and the 'desire of the highest officials
in the government of the United States?"
After objection and exception counsel continued as follows:
"Now, just what do you think about it? Do you think
these are three or four or five of these young fellows, as
they have been calling them, just starting out on their
own, running hog-wild? These are important men. I
presume you all know they are engaged in a very important business, a business, the operation of which is almost
a necessity in this country today. You don't think the
government of the United States would allow four or five
lawyers to come out here and prosecute this case against
them, against their wishes, or that the -Secretary of the
Department of the Interior would allow us to do it, if he
didn't want it done? And if he wanted it done it, was
because he believed, as did the other men in Washington,
that there was a violation of law here, so outstanding and
so withering and far-reaching in ifs effect that something
ought to be done to stop it; and by that to tell the people

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
RoBErs, J., dissenting.

310 U. S.

of this ountry that 'you can't do these things and get
away with it."
Again there was objection and exception.
Counsel did not confine himself to testimony as to the
prosecutors' belief, in -the defendants' guilt but, in attacking the credibility of an important witness for defendants,
essayed to contradict that testimony by a statement of
counsel's own knowledge of facts. The quotation from
the address will make the matter clear:
"I want to refer-in a moment to something that made
an impression on me.
"You know, we lawyers have to depend-most of us
are kind of tough guys. We have our- own way of talking about witnesses. And one thing that we very often
say and talk about is the three classes of liars. There is
the plain liar, the damn liar, and-the expert witness. And
of-all of them, the expert witiess is the worst.
"There were a few of them here. There was Swensrud,
the representative of the Standard of Ohio; there was Van
Covern, and I think there was another one.
"But I just didn't. think much of Swensrud's whole
testimnony, especially after I found out that he wvas giving
testimony that they could ship gasoline in 1935 and 1936
up the Mississippi River to St. Paul. I happen to be
around the Mississippi River quite a little, and know
quite a lot about it, In 1935 and 1936, you couldn't get
a rowboat ujT the Mississippi River, north of Winonabecause the Government-was putting in these dams for
the purpose of exeating the nine-foot channel that you
have read so much aboutf They had concrete clear
across the river, spaced in-so many ways, that, as I say,
you just couldn't get a rowboat up there. When
Swensrud talked about gasoline. going up that river, where
knew, because I lived there and ias around there, that
."
it-co.dn't be done, I just thought-

-I

U. S. v. SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO.
150

267

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

After objection and a request that the court direct thq
jury to disregard the statement the court ruled:
"The jury may disregard it. I didn't hear it. I was
thinking about something else."
Thereupon counsel resumed as follows:
"Now, if you will let me alone a few minutes, I will be
through. If you don't, like 'Old Man River,' I will just
keep rolling along. "i'don't want to do that.
"Now I was referring to these witnesses who knew so
much. There was Van Covern, Swensrud, and a.fellow
named J. D. Miller. He was the fellow who never looked
at anybody, so you, could catch his eye. They knew so
much, in the way they were telling it to you, that it is
impossible, just impossible to believe that they -could
know as much as they said !hey did about it. They
just covered too much territory. I think all history,
sacred and profane, gives us but one single example of a
person who knew everything-and he was no.t only a man,
but he was God. And He gave up His life in a shameful
death, upon the cress, between two thieves."
It is true that no formal exception was taken but the
matter was highly prejudicial. The court should have
dealt with it in some definite and positive way, which he
omitted to do.
Considering what is set out in the opinion of this court,
and the additionl references I have made to the address,
I am of opinion that counsel's argument was highly improper, as indeed the Government admits, and, further,
that it was highly prejudicial. I do not think the court
took proper means to counteract the impropriety and
prejudice thus created and I think the only remedy available is to set aside a verdict ensuing upon such misconduct. Compare Berger v. United States, 295 U. S. 78,
85. 88, 89.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concurs in this opinion.

