80

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Statement of the Case.

310 U. S..

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. LEONARD.
CERTIORARI TO TH31E CIRCUIT -COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 426. Argued March 26, 1940.-Decided April 22, 1940.
A separation agreement providing for the support of a wife embraced a trust agreement whereby the husband contributed to the
corpus securities and cash, including corporate bonds the payment
of the principal and interest of which he guaranteed. The trust
could be amended by the husband and wife jointly, and the husband retained a limited power of substitution in respect of certain
bank stock -which was part of the corpus. Otherwise the trust
was irrevocable and the husband retained no right to either the
corpus or the income. A specified amount of the trust income
was to be paid to each of three children; the remainder to the
wife; and upon her death, the corpus was to be held for the children. The separation agreement also obligated the husband to pay
to the wife annually a certain additional sum for the support of
herself and the children, subject to reduction upon application
to a court of competent jurisdiction. The arrangement was
approved by a decree of divorce in New York. Held:
1. The portion of the- trust income which was received from
the' guaranteed bonds was taxable income of the husband, under
-the Revenue Act of 1928. P. 84.

By the husband's guarantee of payment of the principal and
interest of the bonds, a personal obligation, though contingent,
contipued to exist pro tanto; and the rule of Dougldas v. Willcuts,
296 U. S.1, is applicable,
2. Other trust, income also was taxable to the husband, for the
reason that he did not sustai tha burden of showing by clear
and convincing proof that the New York court lacked power
after the divorce to add to his personal obligations in any eventuality. Helvering v. Fitch, 309 U. S.149. P. 85.
105 F. 2d 900, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 309 U. S. 644, to review a judgment reversing 'a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 36 B. T. A.
.563, assessing a deficiency in income tax.

HELVERING v. LEONARD.
so

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Solicitor General Biddle,
Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Mr. Sewall Key
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. DonaldDuncan,with whom Mr. James B. Alley
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case involves the question of the taxability to the
grantor under the Revenue Act of 1928 (45 Stat. 791) of
income from a so-called alimony trust which is payable
to his divorced wife. We granted certiorari because of the
probable conflict of the decision below with Douglas v.
Wilicuts, 296 U. S. 1, and Helvering v. Fitch, 309 U. S.
149.
In 1928 respondent's wife instituted suit in New York
for an absolute divorce. On June 4, 1929, while that suit
was pending, respondent and his wife entered into a separation agreement and, together with a corporate trustee, executed a trust agreement. Under the latter respondent contributed securities and cash of $650,000,
which included $400,000 principal amount- of 6% first
mortgage bonds of an oil company. Respondent guaranteed the "payment when due of the principal and interest"
on those bonds; and on notice of any default in the payment of any interest on or principal of them, he agreed
to substitute cash or securities with a "market value
equal to" the principal, and cash sufficient to cover any
accrued interest.' The trust was irrevocable- except that
'No extension of the time of payment of principal or interest on
these bonds was to be made without the consent of the wife afid
without the extension of the guarantee of respondent or his personal
representative.
'Except on discontinuance or dismissal of the divorce action.

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

(1) it could be amended by respondent and his wife; I and
(2) respondent retained a limited power of substitution
as respects certain bank stock which was'part of the corpus. The trustee agreed to use "reasonable efforts to consult" with respondent wit1krespect to "the character of
the investments" though it was not bound to follow his
advice. Respondent retained no right to either the corpus or the income, or any part thereof, except as indicated
above. The net income was to be paid as follows: $5000
a year to each of three children; the remaining amount
to the wife during her life for her maintenance and support, and in her sole discretion for the support, maintenance and education of the children On death of the wife,
the corpus was to be held for the children.
The separation agreement incorporated the trust agreement by reference; stated that the wife's income from
the trust and from other property received from the husband would aggregate $30,000 a year; provided that respondent would pay his wife an additional $35,000 each
year during her life so that her aggregate net income for
the maintenance and support of herself and the children
would approximate $65,000 a year, and would further pay
any "extraordinary medical or surgical expenses" incurred
by the wife or on behalf of the children until they attained the age of twenty-five years; stated that in the
event that respondent's ability to pay the above $35,000
became impaired, he might apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for a reduction of his obligation to
not less than $10,000 a year; made other property settlements; provided for care and custody of the children;
released dower, etc.
The decree of divorce became final in October 1929.
It "approved and affirmed and made a part of the judgment herein" the separation agreement (which as we
'It was so amended three times but in respects not material here.

HELVERING v. LEONARD.
80

Opinion of the Court.

have said incorporated the trust agreement) "providing
for the support and maintenance of the plaintiff," and
in addition directed respondent to pay her $35,000 a
year for the rest of her life. From June 4, 1929 to December 31, 1929, the trustee received $16,191.34 as dividends and interest from the trust property. It distributed
$5200 to the wife and $2083.33 to each of three children,
leaving an undistributed balance for that period of about
$4700. Respondent did not include any of that income
in his return for 1929. The Commissioner determined a
deficiency. The Board of Tax Appeals held that only the
amounts actually distributed to respondent's wife and
minor children were taxable to him. 36 B. T. A. 563.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, holding that respondent, though taxable on income payable to his minor
children, was not taxable on income payable to the wife.
105 F. 2d 900.
Here, as in the Circuit Court of Appeals, it was urged
by the petitioner that this alimony trust was merely security for respondent's continuing obligation to support
his wife and, therefore, that the trust income payable to
her was taxable to him under the rule of Douglas v.
Willcuts, supra. In support of that position it was urged,
inter alia, that under New York law respondent's obligation was not discharged since the New York court
retained the power to modify the decree; and that the
promise by respondent to pay the wife $35,000 (or in no
event less than $10,000) a year converted the trust into
at least partial security for the total allowance to her.
In either of such events the rule of Douglas v. Willcuts,
supra, would apply. See Helvering v. Fitch, supra. The
Circuit Court of Appeals, however, decided these two
questions adversely to petitioner. But there is one matter
not touched on by that court which we think is determinative of one phase of the case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

The trust agreement contains an express personal obligation of respondent in the form of a guarantee of payment of the principal and interest on $400,000 of the
6% bonds which were part of the trust corpus. To be
sure, that personal obligation was contingent. But we
-do not deem that to be material. We recently stated in'
Helvering v. Fitch, supra, p. 156, that under this statutory
scheme escape from the rule of Douglas v. Willcuts, supra,
may be had only on "clear and convincing proof" that
"local law and the alimony trust have given the divorced
husband a full discharge and leave no continuing obligation however contingent." Whatever may be the correct
view on the other aspects of the case, the guarantee was
such a continuing obligation. The fact that the wife
or other beneficiaries looked primarily to the trust and
only secondarily to respondent for payment of $24,000
annually, the fact that respondent's obligation might be
enforceable by the trustee, the fact that respondent might
never have to make good on his promise are beside the
point. The existence of wholly contingent obligations,
whether contractual or otherwise, is adequate to support the results reached in Douglas v. Willcuts, supra.
For in that case it was manifest that at the time of the
creation and approval of the trust the divorce court might
never exercise its reserved power to revise or alter the
decree and the husband might never have to make good
on his promise to make up deficiencies in the estimated
trust income. Likewise in the instant case, it cannot
be said that the divorce decree and the alimony trust
gave respondent an absolute discharge from his prior
obligation. So far as the guarantee alone is concerned,
they permitted his preexisting unconditional duty to be
transformed into a limited contingent one. But nonetheless they placed a specific and adequate sanction on
that duty, so that resiondent's personal obligation would
not be fully discharged at least until complete payment

HELVERING v. LEONARD.
80

Opinion of the Court.

of the principal and interest on the 6% bonds had been
made. Thus in effect, if not in form, the trust agreement was security for his continuing obligation which
would be discharged at least pro tanto as income from
those bonds was received by the trustee. Hence the case
in substance is the same as those where pursuant to contract or arrangement an obligation is discharged by

another for the taxpayer's benefit; see Old Colony Trust
Co. v. Commissioner, 279 U. S. 716; United States v.
Boston. & Maine Railroad, 279 U. S. 732; or where the
taxpayer creates a trust, the income of which is applied
to the discharge of his debt. See Helvering v. Blumenthal, 296 U. S. 552. Here, as there, the taxpayer received
a'benefit by the payments. The catalogue of benefits is
not depleted when primary obligations are discharged.
For these reasons that portion of the trust income which
was received from the guaranteed bonds was clearly taxable to respondent.
Apparently, however, a portion of that income was received from other trust property. But we think that was
also taxable to respondent though for another reason.
As we have seen, the divorce decree approved, affirmed
and made part of the judgment the separation ag-eement
providing for the "support and maintenance" of the wife.
Her maintenance and support were secured not only by
the trust agreement and other property settlements but
also by the personal obligation of the husband to contribute an annual sum. The Circuit Court of Appeals held
that under New York law the terms of the trust would
not be changed "unless the wife can disaffirm it for fraud,
overreaching, or the like," citing Galusha v. Galusha, 116
N. Y. 635; 22 N. E. 1114; 138 N. Y. 272;-33 N. E. 1062;
Cain v. Cain,.188 App.JDiv. 780; 177 NY. S. 178; Hamlin
v. Hamlin, 224 App. Div. 168; 230 N. Y. S. 51. If the
case was here on application of local law under the rule of
Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, we would not be

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

inclined to disturb that finding. But it is not. Here
respondent is seeking to escape one of the normal incidents of the federal income tax. For that purpose he
invokes the aid of New York law. 'In Helvering v. Fitch,
supra, we stated that where the 'divorced husband desires
to avoid the general'rule expressed in Douglas v. Willcuts,
supra,he carries a distinct burden of establishing not by
mere inference and conjecture but by "'clear and convincing proof" that local law and the alimony trust have given
him a full discharge. We do not think that respondent
has stistained that burden.
As stated by the, Circuit Court of Appeals, it does seem
clear that mere property settlements, though incorporated into the decree, may not be modified pursuant to the
reserved statutory powers of the court, contained in N. Y.
Civil Prac. Act §§ 1155, 1170.' -See Cain v. Cain, supra.;
Goldfish v. Goldfish, 193 App. Div. 686; 184 N. Y. S. 512.
Schnitzer v. Buerger, 237 App. Div. 622; 262 N. Y. S.
385. Nevertheless these settlements may be remade by
the court not only where an ordinary contract may be set
aside but also where they are unfair, inequitable and
unjust. Hamlinv. Hamlin, supra. Cf. Tirrell v. Tirrell,
232 N. Y. 224; 133 N. E. 569. As stated by the court
in the Hamlin case (224 App. Div. at p. 171) the requirement is that "such contracts be not only free from taint
of actual fraud or coercion but also fair and reasonably
sufficient having regard to the station in life and circumstances of the parties." More important to this case,
however, are Kunker v. Kunker, 230 App. Div. 641;
246 N. Y. S. 118 and Holahan v. Holahan, 234 App. Div.
572; 255 N. Y. S. 693. They make it plain that the
covenants of a separation agreement are not "an insuperable obstacle to obtaining relief, by modification of the
allowances." Holahan v. Holahan, supra, p. 574. Cf.
Severance v. Severance, 260 N. Y. 432; 183 N. E. 909.
The reserved power apparently may be exercised where

HELVERING v. LEONARD.
80

Opinion of the Court.

the, provision in the separate agreement, approved by
the decree, is for support and maintenance (Kunker v.
Kunker and Holahan v.. Holahan, supra) but not where
it is in settlement of claims of ownership to specified
property. Goldfish v. Goldfish and Schnitzer v. Buerger,
supra. The provisions of the separation agreement and
the trust agreement here in question specifically relate
to and were designed to afford support and maintenance
for the wife. Unlike the purpose of the trust agreement
in Schnitzer v. Buerger, supra, the purpose here apparently was not to compose any controversies over the
securities. We need not decide whether the court retained the power to require respondent to make additional
payments to the wife in case, say, all the securities in
trust turned out to be worthless. All we do hold is that
respondent has not shown by "clear and convincing proof"
that the court lacks the power to add to his personal
obligations in any such circumstances.
Reversed.
* MR. JUSTICE REED concurs in the result for the reasons
stated in the dissent in Helvering v. Fuller, ante,
p. 76.

The CHImF JusTICE, AIR. JUSTICE McREYxoLDs, and
MR. JUSTICE RoBERTS are of the opinion that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be
affirmed.

