OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

132

Syllabus.

310 U. S.

chief; and we are quite satisfied that such a power was
never intended to be given to them." 2 0
The District Court roperly dismissed the bill and the
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia was in
error in finding respondents with standing to bring this
action, in ordering the Secretary's determination restrained
and in holding respondents entitled to declaratory
judgment 1
Our decision that the complaining companies lack
standing to sue.does not rest upon a mere formality. We
rest it upon reasons deeply rooted in the constitutional
divisions of authority in our system of Government and
the impropriety of judicial interpretations of law at the
instance of those who show no more than a mere possible
injury to the public. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and that of the District Court dismissing
- the bill is affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS is of opinion that the challenged judgment should be affirmed.

WARREN

ET AL.,

TRUSTEES, v. PALMER
TRUSTEES.

ET AL.,

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECrOND CIRCUIT.

No. 643.

Argued March 29, April 1, 1940.-Decided April 29, 1940.

-here a railroad system, in a reorganization proceeding under § 77
of the Bankruptcy Act, includes a' leased line, operated at a loss
and which can not be operated by its owne?-and where, by order
of the court the trustees have rejected the lease but have continued to operate the leased road for the account of the lessor,
Decatutr v. Paulding, supra, at 516.
'Aetna. Life Ins. Co. v. Haworth. 300 U. S. 227, 240-1.

WARREN v. PALMER.
132

Argument for Petitioners.

pursuant to § 77 (c)' (6), the court has jurisdiction" to determine
the amount of the deficit chargeable to the lessor and to impose
a first lien on the leased property to secure it, and, to do this
after proceedings for reorganization of the lessor company under
§ 77 have been instituted in another district where the leased
line is situate. P. 140.
108 F. 2d 164, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 309 U. S. 645, to review the affirmance of
an order of the District Court in a railroad reorganization
proceeding under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act. The order
fixed the amount of a deficit arising from the operation
of a leased line and declared it- a first lien on the leased
property. Only the .question of the bankruptcy court's
jurisdiction to do this was brought here.

Mr. Erwin N. Griswold, with whom Messrs. John
Noble, Jr., and Paul E. Troy were on the brief, for
petitioners.
The property, of the Boston & Providence was not
subject to administration within the Connecticut court's
bankruptcy jurisdiction. E en though that court may
have had possession of the property, and even though
§ 77 still turns upon possession in part, the jurisdiction
resulting from possession is not broad enough to sustain
the relief sought in this case.
Property which does not belong to the debtor is not
subject to administration in the debtor's bankruptcy.
This applies to the lessor's interest in the leased property.
There is nothing in § 77 which extends the jurisdiction
of the bankruptcy court to administer property in the
possession of a debtor which the debtor does not own.
The Boston & Providence could not be reorganized by the
Connecticut court.
Section 77 -did not impose any duty on the New
Haven Road which Fould serve as the foundation for
implying that the Connecticut court would have correlative jurisdiction fn determine the consequences of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Petitioners.

310 U. S.

performnance of that duty. The duty to operate the
railroad existed independently of § 77. That section
gave the New Haven a means of escaping the existing
burden, but on terms which the New Haven has not seen
fit .1o follow. There is nothing in § 77 (c) (6) which
suggests that the adjudication of the account in this case
is the exclusive prerogative of the Connecticut court.
The jurisdiction of the Connecticut court is not aided
by its status as a receivership court. A 'receivership
court does not have jurisdiction over property beyond its
territorial limits. The Massachusetts court here is' not
a mere ancillary court in the New Haven reorganization
of' the Boston & Providence.
The claim is one which has grown uP wholly in equity
proceedings. The respondents must take it subject to
the territorial limitations on the Connecticut court's
jurisdiction* to act as -an equity receivership court.
Exclusive jurisdiction over the Boston & Providence
and its property is now- vested in the District Court in
Massachusetts. This would seem to follow from the
plain language of § 77 (a) of the Bankruptcy Act which
gives the Massachusetts court exclusive jurisdiction of
the debtor and its property wherever located.
Congress did not provide for the unified reorganization of railroad systems.
If the New Haven claim can properly be liquidated by
the Connecticut court, and the rank of the lien fixed by
the Conlaecticut court, then the Massachusetts court has
only a perfunctory jurisdiction over "the new allocation
of interests in" the Boston & Providence property. It
must dispose of all its debtor's property on the say-so
of another court.
The jurisdiction of the Connecticut court can not be
sustained on the ground that it first took*over the res.
There are many cases in which it has been held that a
bankru tcy court supersedes a jurisdiction which has

WARREN v. PALMER.
.132

135

Opinion of the Court.

already been obtained by another court. Only by recognizing the paramount jurisdiction of. the Massachusetts
court can the purpose of Congress to achieve a unified
disposition of the debtor's estate be obtained.
Mr. Hermmn J. Wells for respondents.
MR. JusTIcE RF_

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The Boston and Providence Railroad Corporation in
1888 leased its property, a line of road running between
Boston and Providence, for 99 years to the Old Colony
Railroad. It has continued as a separate corporation, receiving and distributing its rent, and is not a subsidiary or
affiliate of the New Haven or the Old Colony. In 1899 the
Old Colony leased its lines, including its leasehold in the
BostoAi and Providence, to the .New York, New Haven
and Hartford Railroad for 99 years. The New Haven
operated its own and the leased property until it was put
into reorganization under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act 1
in the District Court of Connecticut on October 23,
1935. The trustees of the New Haven operated theOld
Colony under the lease until they rejectedte -lease by
order of the court on June 2, 1936. Next day the Old.
Colony filed under § 77 in the same Connecticut- court
as a subsidiary debtor, the court appointed the trustees of. the New Haven trustees of the Old Colony, and
on June 18, 1936, the court ordered the New Haven trus.
tees to continue to operate the Old Colony as an.integrat
part of the New Haven, the operation being for the acdount
of the Old Colony. The order provided that, in the event
leases of the Old Colony were later rejected, payments for operating the leased liroperty and payments of
rent under the lease would be deemed to have been for
the account of the lessor and could be recovered from the
111 U. S. C. § 205.

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

leased property prior to any mortgage or lien thereon."- On
July 19, 1938, the court directed the trustees, of the Old
Colony to reject the lease of the Boston and Providence
and to continue operation -of the road for the account of
the Boston and Providence pursuant to § 77 (c) (6). On
August 4, 1938, the Boston and Providence was put into
reorganization in the District ' ourt of Massachusetts.
Previously the system had been operating at a loss and
the trustees of the New Haven and the Old Colony asked
the Connecticut court to determine the amount of the
deficit attributable to the Boston and Providence for the
period from June 4, 1936, to December 31, 1937, and to
declare that amount a lien on the Boston and Providence
in favor of the New Haven and the Old Colony. On January 16, 1939, the Connecticut court decided that it had
jurisdiction to grant the requested lien on the Boston and
Providence; although that road was under reorganization
in another bankruptcy court, and on April 20, 1939, the
court entered an order fixing the amount of the deficit and
declaring it a first lien on the property of the Boston and
Providence. The Circuit Court of Appeals, holding that
the Connecticut court had jurisdiction to determine *the
lien, affirmed the order of January 16, 1939, but concluded
that the Boston and Providence had been given no chance
to be heard on the merits of the question and remanded the
later order for a determination of the "existence and
amount of the obligation." 2
The obligation on which the claimed lien is based arises,
so the trustees of the New Haven and the Old Colony con,tend, from the operation of the Boston and Providence
imder § 77 (c) (6) by the Old Colony for the account of the
Boston and Providence. Petitioners deny that 77
(c) (6) was properly invoked and claim that the deficit
is not chargeable to them. This phase of the contro'108 F. 2d 164.

WARREN v. PALMER.
132

.

Opinioirof the Court.

versy is not before us, for petitioners have brought here
only the question of the Connecticut court's jurisdiction to
determine the amount of the deficit chargeable to the
Boston and Providence and to impose a lien on its property to secure it. If the Connecticut court has that jurisdiction, it will determine whether the deficit is chargeable
to the Boston and Providence when it determines the "existence and extent of the obligation" pursuant to the order
of remand of the Court of Appeals.
The controversy has substance because of the contention of the trustees for the Boston and Providerce that,
as the court charged with the reorganization of that road
(the Massachusetts District Court) has "exclusive jurisdiction" under § 77 (a) "of the debtor and its property
wherever located," the Connecticut court cannot consider'
the claims of the New Haven and Old Colony trustees for
operating deficits or impose a lien on the Boston and Providence property to secure them.
The lease of the Boston and Providence to the Old
Colony is the type of lease covered by the order of June
18, 1936, by which the trustees of Old Colony were authorized to charge operating deficits against the lessor in the
event of subsequent disaffirmance of the lease.
Railroad reorganization in bankruptcy is a field completely within the ambit of the bankruptcy powers of
Congress.3 Under the commerce clause of the Constitution Congress likewise has exercised its power to provide
for the continued operation of interstate railroads such as
petitioner.4 The fact that the operator operates under a
'Continental Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 294 U. S. 648,
667-675.
'Interstate Commerce Act, § 1 (18), as amended 49 U. S. C. § 1
(18):
"Extension or abandonment of lines; certificate required.
and no carrier by railroad subject to this chapter shall abandon
all or any portion of a line of railroad, or the operation thereof,

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

lease does not affect the force of the requirement that the
operation must continue until a certificate permitting
abandonment is issued by the Interstate Commerce Commission.8 The judicial functions of the bankruptcy court
and, the administrative functions of the Commission work
co5peratively in reorganizations.' Provision is made by
the Bankruptcy Act 7 for the operation of leased property
on surrender. It is under this subsection that respondent
claims to .have become entitled to the amount sought in
the motion for allowance and lien. This subsection modifies pro tanto the rule of the Interstate Commerce Act for
operation.
The property of the Boston and Providence came into
the possession of the trustees of the New Haven and the
Old Colony and remained there during the entire time
covered by, the claim. These roads were lessees of the
property and debtors under § 77 in the Connecticut court.
It is immaterial what title the debtors had, whether a
lease or a fee. The physical property covered by the lease
unless and until there shall first have been obtained from the commission a certificate that the present or future public convenience
and necessity permit of such abandonment."
Cf. Seaboard Air Line Railways Receivers Proposed Abandonment, 202 I. C. C. 543; Norfolk Southern R. Co. Receivers Abandonment, 221 I. C. C. 258; Meck and Masten, Railroad Leases
and Reorganization: I, 49 Yale L. J.626.
'Palmer v. Massachusetts, 308 U. S.79, 87, note 14.
§ 77 (c) (6). "If a lease of a line of railroad is rejected, and if
the lessee, with the approval of the judge, shall elect no longer to
operate the leased line, it shall be the duty of the lessor at the end
of a period to be fixed by the judgq-to begin the operation of such
line, unless the judge, upon the petition of the lessor, shall decree
after hearing tat it would be impracticable and contrary to the
public interest for the lgssor to operate the said line, in which eyent
it shall be the duty of the lessee to continue operation on or for
the account of the lessor until the abandonment of such line is
authorized by the Commission in accdrdanc-with the provisions of
section 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act as amended."

WARREN v. PALMER.
132

Opinion of the Court.

-

was in the custody of the Connecticut court by virtue of
the provision of §77 (a).8 By virtue of subdivisions 77 (c)
(10) and 77 (c) (6) 1it is clear that leaseholds are in some
instances to be operated by the lessee's trustees.
This Court has held "upon principles of general-application" that courts having custody of property or a fund
have the power "to require that expenses which have contributed either to the preservation or creation of the fund
in its custody shall be paid before a general disposition
among those entitled to receive it." " Such a power reposes in any court charged with custody of property. It

is an in rem jurisdiction springing from possession of the
property which is necessary in order that the court may
adequately care for the property. Thus a court having
custody of a ship is able to secure wharfage by virtue of its
power to decree a preferential payment.1 And here the
court is'able to carry out the operation of the Boston and
Providence by promising or granting a lien to those who
carry out the operation.
"Thompson'v. Magnolia Petroleum Co., 309 U. S. 478; Ex parte

Baldwin, 291 U. S. 610; cf. Isaacsv. Hobbs Tie & T. Co., 282 U. S.
734; Green v. FinneganRealty Co., 70 F. 2d 465, 466 (C. 0. A. 5th);.
In re Chambers, Calder & Co., 98 F. 865 (D. R. I.).
*§ 77 (c) (10). "The judge may direct the debtor Or the trustee
or trustees to keep such records and accounts, in addition to the
accounts prescribed by the Commission, as will permit of such a

segregation and allocation, as' the necessities of the case may require,
of the earnings and expenses between and to the divisions and parts
of the railroad or other property of the debtor which are separately
subject to the liens. of the various mortgages or deeds of trust, or
are separaiely subject to lease, and may refer to the Commission for
its recommendations after hearings thereon if the parties shall so
request and/or the Commission determine necessary or desirable, as
to the method or formula by which such segregation and allocation
shall be made; and thereafter such segregation and allocation may be
made at the expense of the debtor's estate." See note 7.
'0New York Dock Co. v. The Poznan, 274 U. S. 117, 120, 121.
"Ibid.

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

If the Connecticut court has possession of the property
and operated it under § 77 (c) (6) for its owners, could it
fix a lien on the property after another bankruptcy court
took the administration of the property? By § 77 (c) (6)
railroads in reorganization which had been operating lines
under lease were allowed to reject the lease but required to
continue operation of the leased lines if the lessor-had no
ability to operate. Thus Congress recognized the possible
occurrence of the situation now before us and evinced a
desire that rail service should not in such a case be interrupted. In view of the public importance of rail service,
we think this subsection represents an intention to give
the court charged with operation the fullest ability to secure the necessities of operation-an intention to give the
operating court power to promise those having the materials, men and equipment needed for operation a first lien
on the road to secure payment for the operation."2 This
in no way impairs the operation of § 77 (a) which grants
to the Massachusetts court, "during the pendency of the
proceedings under this section* and for the purposes
thereof," "exclusive jurisdiction of the debtor and its property wherever located." The "purposes" of § 77 include
-the development of a "fair and equitable" 11 plan of reorganization. The Massachusetts court is left with jurisdiction to accomplish this, but is bound to recognize the
priority of the lien declared by the Connecticut court.
By § 77 (c) (6) the Connecticut court was given jurisdicIt may be noted that Congress did not adopt the rule of Gross v.
Irving Trust Co., 289 U. S. 342, in this situation. In the Gross case
property of a debtor had been in the custody of a state receivership
court prior to the debtor's adjudication in ordinary bankruptcy. It
wvas held that because of the bankruptcy court's paramount jurisdicion the administrative expenses of the receivership had to be. proved
in bankruptcy and could nor be declared a lien by the receivership
court on property in its custody.
'§77 (e).

TIGNER v. TEXAS.
132

Syllabus.

tion so long as it continued to operate the road to grant a
lien for operating expenses prior. to any existing claims
against the road. The decision of the Court of Appeals
that the Connecticut court had jurisdiction to grant the
lien sought by respondent is
Affirmed.

TIGNER v. TEXAS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF TEXAS.

No. 635. Argued March 29, 1940.--Decided May 6, 1940.
1. Since farmers and stockmen are widely scattered and inured to
habits of individualism and economically are in large measure
dependent upon contingencies beyond their control, a legislature
may reasonably believe that combinations of farmers and stockmen restraining trade in their agricultural products and livestock
present no threat to the community, or, at least, that the threat
is of a different order from that of combinations of industrialists
and middlemen. P. 145.
2. Since Connolly v. 'Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, was
decided, an impressive legislative movement bears witness to
general acceptance of the view that the differences between agriculture and industry call for differentiation in the formulation
of public policy. P. 145.
3. The "laws" meant by the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment are not abstractions but are expressions of policy
arising out of specific difficulties, addressed to the attainment of
specific ends by the use of specific remedies. The Constitution
does not require things which are different in fact or opinion to be
treated in law as though they were the same. P. 147.
4. A Texas penal statute punishing conspiracies in restraint of trade
but expressly inapplicable to "agricultural products or livestock
while in the hands of the producer or raiser," held, consistent with
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Ameidment. P. 149.
5. In effectuating its policy with respect to combinations in restraint of trade, the Texas legislature, though exempting farmers
and stockmen from penal remedies applicable to others, subjected
them like others to civil penalties. Held, within legislative discretion and consistent with equal protectiofi.of the laws. P. 149.
132 S. W, 2d 885, affirmed.

