SCHOONDIAKER V. GILMORE.

[Sup. Ct.

ment on the chains that preceded it. In some particulars it
doubtless was: It left the elasticity of the spiral gold tubing
more free by releasing the link from the attachment of the soldering, and it enabled the chain to be freely taken in pieces
without injury to its structure. But all improvement is not
invention, and entitled to protection as such. Thus to entitle
it, it must be the product of some exercise of the inventive
faculties, and it must involve something 1nore than what is
obvious to persons skilled in the art to which it relates.
In this case neither the tubing, nor the open spiral link
formed of tubing, nor the process of making either the open or
the closed link, nor the junction of closed and open spiral links
in a chain, was invented by the patentee. We are, therefore,
constrained to hold that the first claim of the patent, even if
not void for want of novelty, is void for want of patentability
The decree of the Circuit Court will therefore be reversed,
and the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the bill.
So ordered.

SCHOONIAKER V. G]mmORE.
The courts of the United States, as courts of admiralty, have not exclusive jurisdiction of suits in personam, growing out of collisions between vessels while
navigating the Ohio River.

MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the State of Pennsylvania, to which is united a motion to
affirm.
This was an action on the case, brought in the Court of
Common Pleas of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, by Gilmore against Schoonmaker & Brown, owners of the steam-tug
"Jos. Bigley" The declaration avers in substance that, by
reason of the negligence of the defendants, the tug, when
descending the Ohio River, a few miles below Pittsburgh,
collided with and damaged certain barges belonging to the
plaintiff.

Oct. 1880.]

SCHOONMAKER V. GILIORE.

The point was made by the defendants that the courts of
the United States have exclusive jurisdiction in cases of collision on navigable waters.
There was a judgment for the plaintiff, on the affirmance
of which by the Supreme Court the defendants sued out thiswrit.
Mr Alexander l. Watson in support of the motions.
Hr Bill Burqwrn, contra.
MR. CGHIF3 JUSTiCE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The single question in this case is, whether the courts of the
United States, as courts of admiralty, have exclusive jurisdiction of suits zn personam, growing out of collisions between
vessels while navigating the Ohio River. This is a Federal
question, and gives us jurisdiction, but we cannot consider it
as any longer open to argument, as it was decided substantially
in The Moses Taylor, 4 Wall. 411, The Hine v Trevor, id. 555,
The Belfast, 7 id. 624, Leon v Caleeran,11 id. 185, and Steamboat Company v Chase, 16 id. 522. The Judiciary Act of 1789
(1 Stat. 73, sect. 9), reproduced in sect. 563, Rev Stat., par. 8,
which confers admiralty jurisdiction on the courts of the United
States, expressly, saves to suitors, in all cases, the right of a
common-law remedy, where the common law is competent to
give it. That there always has beep a remedy at common law
for damages by collision at sea cannot be denied.
The motion to dismiss is overruled, and that to affirm granted.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTE. - Brown v. Davidson, error to the Supreme Court of the State of Pennsylvauia, involved the same question as the preceding case. It was submitted
by, the same counsel and determined in the same manner.

