REPORTS OF THE DECISIONS
OF THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
OCTOBER TERM, 1880.

MYER v. CAR COMPANY.
A railroad company in Iowa, after executing a mortgage to secure its bonds,
which was duly recorded, covering all the property which it then possessed
or might thereafter acquire, entered into a written contract with A., leasing
for a specific period and at'a stipulated sum, payable monthly, certain cars
whereof he was the owner. It also reserved but did not exercise the privilege
of purchasing them at the original cost at any time during the existence of
the contract. A. retained the right to rescind the contract, if the company
failed to pay the interest on its bonds. While the contract was in force, the
mortgagee filed his bill of foreclosure. The court appointed a receiver, who
took charge of the road and used the cars in operating it. The contract was
never recorded. 'Held, 1. That the contract was binding between the parties
thereto, and the failure to record it did not, under the statute of Iowa, -ender
the cars subject to the lien of the mortgage. 2. That A. was entitled to the
possession of them, and to compensation for their use by the receiver, payable
out of the fund to the credit of the suit.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Iowa.
This was a bill, filed May 4, 1875, to foreclose a mortgage
executed May 12, 1871, by the Davenport and St. Paul Railroad Company, to secure the payment of certain of its bonds.
The mortgage was in the usual form, covering, with other
property specifically set forth, the road, bridges, and superstructure of the railroad, with all branches, side-tracks, additions, turnouts, right of way, depot grounds, and other lands
then owned or thereafter to be acquired by the company, all
voL. X11.

1

MYER V. CAR Co.

[Sup. ot.

depots, car-houses, car-shops, machine-shops, and all other
buildings whatsoever, then erected or thereafter to be erected;
also all kinds of machinery and tools then held and owned or
thereafter to be acquired by the company for use in connection
with the railroad, including all cars or other rolling-stock or
equipment, and all materials for use in constructing, operating,
repairing, or replacing any part or parcel of said railroad or
any part of its appurtenances; also all property and franchises
connected with or relating to the railroad, or any part of its
business in any wise whatever, which was then held or thereafter to be acquired by the company, &c.
The company subsequently entered into the following contract: -

C"Articles of agreement concluded this first day of October, A.D.
1.873, by and between the Western Car Company, party of the first
part, and the Davenport and St. Paul Railroad Company, party of
the second part, witnesseth:
"That for and in consideration of the promises and agreements
of the said second party hereinafter mentioned, the said first party
hereby hires to aid second party ninety railroad cars, as follows,
viz.; eighty box cars, Nos. 121 to 200 (inclusive), and ten stock
cars, Nos. 301 to 310 (inclusive) ; said ninety cars having been the
property of the Western Car Company Association, and by them
delivered to the party of the second part at dates previous to Feb.
15, 1873, as per receipts of said second party, and the ownership of
said cars having afterward been transferred to the party of the first
part, all of said cars being marked O.
"It is understood and agreed by the parties hereto that the said
ninety cars are to be used by said second party in its regular business of transportation over its own and other railroads for the term
of five years from the date of this contract, which shall be renewed
on the expiration of said five years on like agreements and conditions as those of this contract upon the request of either of the
parties hereto, a written notice of such request to be given by the
party making it on the other party not less than one year previous
to the expiration of said five years. In consideration whereof the

said second party hereby promises and agrees "First, To pay the said first party as rental for the use of each of
said cars twenty dollars for each and every month during the existence of this contract and its renewal, if renewed; said payments to

Oct. 1880.]

MYER V. OAR CO-

be made to such person on behalf of said first party as it shall
designate in writing fi'om time to time, and until otherwise so
designated to the secretary of said first party; and the receipts
of such payments of said person so designated, or said secretary of
said first party, as the case may'be, shall be the only evidence
of such payments said first party shall require of said second party
therefor.
"Second, In case any of said cars shall be destroyed; or so disable& by accident or otherwise, as to be unfit for safe and proper
use, at any time during the existence of t~is contract, or the re-:
newed contract, if renewed, the said second party shall, at its own
expense, immediately replace such destroyed or-disabled cars with
an equal number of like cars of equally good material, construction, and value, in all respects as were those so destroyed or disabled before the destruction or disabling of the same, and shall have
said replacing cars numbered, letterpd, and marked as were the
said destroyed or disabled cars. Each and all of said replacing
cars shall become and be the property of said party of -the first
part, the same as were the destroyed or disabled cars they shall.
have replaced.
"Third, The said second party shall, at its own expense, maintain and keep each and all of said ninety cars during the existence
of this contract and its renewal, if renewed, in good repair and in
safe and proper runnin order, and at its own expense furnish all
the material for and make all renewals of said cars from time to
time, as they shall be needed, to put and keep them in proper condition for regular use, said material to be in every respect equal in
quality to the material for' like purposes originally used in the construction of said cars, and at the termination of this contract or the
fenewed contract, if renewed, return said cars to the party of the
first part in pl:oper condition and repair for the immediate and
active use thereof.
"It being understood and agreed between the parties to this
contract that said second party may and hereby reserves the privilege of purchasing said cars at any time during the existence of
this contract, or the renewal thereof, if renewed, by paying, or
securing to be paid to said first party, to its satisfaction, the original
cost thereof.
"It is understood and agreed between the parties hereto that to
preserve the evidence of the ownership of said cars in the, said first
party they shall be severally marked or lettered as follows, viz.
which shall be in addition to any marking or lettering of said

MYER V. CAR CO.

[Sup. Ct.

cars said second party may make for its convenience. In case the
said second party shall fail at any time during the existence of this
contrdct, or the renewed contract, if renewed, to promptly pay the
interest or the principal of any of its bonds or other liabilities when
the same shall have respectively become due, the said first party may,
if it so elect, terminate this contract immediately after such default,
by written notice of the president of said first party to the president
or secretary of said second party, personally served on said president or secretary, or sent to either of them by the United States
mail, and the said second party agrees on the service of said written
notice as aforesaid to deliver fbrthwith to said first party the actual
possession as the owner thereof of each and all of said ninety cars,
and those with which said second party shall have replaced the
same, each and all of which cars shall, on such delivery, be in proper
condition and repair for the immediate and active use thereof.
"THE WESTERN CAR COMPANY,
"By B. E. SmITn, Pres't.
"Attest:

"E. C. SMITH, Sec'y.

"THE DAVENPORT & ST. PAUL R. R. Co.,'
"By GEo. I. FRENCHI, .Pres't.

"Attest:
"J. S. CoxNioR, Sec'y"
The court appointed a receiver, who took charge of the road
and said cars.
The Western Car Company filed an answer and a cross-bill
claiming title and right of possession to the cars, and compensation for the use of them by the receiver. The Western Car
Company Association originally leased ninety cars to the railroad company, and became a corporation under the name of
The Western Car Company, under a charter granted by the
State of Delaware. An agreed statement was filed in the court
below, setting forth the following facts: The cars were delivered to the railroad company under a conditional contract or
lease with the Western Car Company Association, between
Feb. 8, 1872, and Feb. 15, 1873; $22,179.02 was paid for the
rent thereof prior to Oct. 1, 1873, under a similar lease or contract to that of Oct. 1, 1873; the Western Car Company was
formed at or prior to Oct. 1, 1873, and the foregoing contract
was executed between it and the railroad company; the words

Oct. 1880.]

OMYER v. CAR Co.

"having been the property of the Western Car Company Association, and by them" deliverled '"to the said railroad company,
mentioned in that contract, refer to the delivery above named,
and the car company claims title to and rent for the cars un-der
the contract of Oct. 1, 1873. The trustees of the bondholders
claim title under the mortgage dated May 12,. 1871, which 'vas
duly recorded. The contract of Oct. 1, 1873, was never recorded. The receiver has paid no rent for the cars, and they
were marked as stated in that contract.
The cars were all in use by the railroad company, and .were
constantly passing, in and for its business to Chicago and back,
,on the Chicago and Northwestern Railroad, and in carrying
and earning freight for the Davenport and St. Paul road up
to the time of the receiver's appointment. Some par'ties, in
a proceeding against the Chicago and Northwestern Railroad
Company, garnished the cars, and the court below made an
order on that company to deliver them to the receiver. Before
the order was executed, the car company applied to the court
to direct a payment of rent to them by the receiver. When
the court refused to do so, that company, through the same
attorneys who applied for rent, replevied fifty-eight of the cars
from the Chicago and Northwestern Railroad Company by writ
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Illinois. B. E. Smith was, Oct. 1, .873,.president
of the car company, and of the Davenport Railway Construction Company, and a stockholder in the Davenport and St.
Paul Railroad Company. At that date, Qeorge. H. French was
president of the latter company, and secretary of the Construction Company.
It.was further agreed that if the court decided that the car
company was entitled to the cars, the amount of rent was to
be fixed by a reference to such competent person as the court
might select.
The court found that the said ninety cars leased by the railroad company from the Western Car Company, at all times
bad been and then were -the property of the latter company,
and that it was entitled to the immediate possession thereof.
The court thereupon adjudged that the complainants' bill be
dismissed as against the car company.

MYER V. CAR CO.

[Sup. Ot.

The court further found that of the said ninety cars fifty-six
had come into the possession of the car -company under and
by virtue of said writ of replevin; that thirty-four of them
were then, and had been since the filing of the bill, in the
possession of the receiver appointed by the court, but that two
of them were subject to the lien of the deed of trust under
which the complainants claim. It was adjudged and decreed
that the receiver immediately surrender and deliver up unto
the car company the remaining thirty-two cars.
It having been stipulated by the parties that the value of
the use of the said thirty-two cars, since and while they were
in the possession of and in use by the receiver of the court,
was $10 per car for each month since March, 1875, a period of
twenty-six months, it was further adjudged and decreed that
the car company do have and recover for such use the sum of
$8,320 ; and the receiver was ordered and directed to pay over
the said moneys to the said company.
Myer and Dennison, the trustees named in the mortgage,
thereupon appealed to this court.
Sect. 1922 of the Revised Code of Iowa of 1873 is as follows:

-

"That no sale, contract, or lease, wherein the transfer of title or
ownership of personal property is made to depend upon any condition, shall be valid against any creditor or purchaser of the vendee
or lessee in actual possession obtained in pursuance there6f, without notice, unless the same be in writing, executed by the vendor
or lessor, acknowledged and recorded the same as chattel inortgages."
It is a transcript of an act having for its title "An Act
requiring conditional sales of personal property to be executed,
acknowledged, and recorded like mortgages of personal property, to be of any validity as against bona fide purchasers, executions, and attaching creditors."
iMiZr. Joseph H. ClThoate and Mr. James Grant for the appellants.
By the true and fair construction of its terms, the statute
of Iowa applies to this case. It invalidates the title or right of
recovery of the lessor, as against the prior mortgagees, and

Oct. 1880.]

MYER v. CAR CO.

makes their title as creditors superior to that of the actual
,
owner.
the
enacting
a. The title of the original act does not control
clause. The latter is free from all ambiguity, and secures the
benefit of its provisions to "any creditor." Potter's Dwarris
on Statutes, pp. 265-270; Mae v. Cadell, Cowp. 232; Sedgwick, Statutes pp. 50-52.
. 6. Althoughi United States v. New Orleans Railroad (12 Wall.
362) holds that, as a general rule of equity, the mortgagee in
such a mortgage must take after-acquired property cum onere,
the express terms of ihis statute create a clear exception to
that rule. United States Wind Engine Co. v. Burlington, &c.
Railway Co., 4 Dill. 580.
e. The contract in question comes directly within those
terms. It is "a contract or lease wherein the transfer of title
or ownership of personal property is made to depend upon a
condition," and the "lessee or vendee was in actual possession,
obtained in pursuance thereof without notice" to creditors.
The condition,- on which the transfer of title is made to
depend, is the payment of the original cost. At any, time
during the lease, by performing this condition, the lessee is tobecome the owner of the cars.
The purposes of the statute are to be considered. Like all
similar legislation which aims at prohibiting the separation of
the apparent or reputed title from the real ownership, it is to
be construed for the prevention of fraud upon creditors and
others, who rely upon the apparent ownership, which the possession and use of chattels indicate. Had an actual purchaser
bought and paid for the cars, there can be ho question that his
title would be sustained as against the real owner, and the
statute expressly puts " any creditor" in the same position.
The principle of such statutes is that a-divorce-of the apparent ownership, manifested by possession, from the actual
ownership, shall not avail as against creditois who rely upon
the possession.
In Twyne's Case (3 Co. 87), it was resolved that such statutes made against fraud must be liberally and beneficially
expounded, and that the whole instrument must be taken together to ascertain its -meaning.

MYEPv. CAR do.

[Sup. Ct.

The statute of Iowa does not contemplate a consummated
sale and purchase, but a contract or lease whereby the transfer of title is made to depend upon a condition. This exact
feature is found in this contract. Whenever the lessee pays
or secures the original cost of the cars, they are to be its
property. This is an executory agreement binding on the
lessor during the whole term of the lease. The statute dispenses in favor of creditors of the lessee with the performance of the condition, if the contract, as in this case, be not
recorded.
teases wherein payment of rent to the amount of a fixed
purchase-price is stipulated for have frequently been held to
be within the statute. Sewing-Machine Cornpany v. Holcomb,
40 Iowa, 33; iIHosely v. Shattuck, 43 id. 540; Lucas v. Campbell,
88 Ill. 447; Latham v. Sumner, 89 id. 233; Hervey v. Rhode
Island Locomotive Works, 93 U. S. 664. The distinguishing
feature of these cases is that the rent for which- the lessee is
bound is paid and received as part of the purchase-money, and
that when he, by paying the !vhole amount, has performed the
condition on which the transfer of title is made to depend, the
property becomes his.
The statute of Iowa covers not only that case, but every
case where the contract under which possession is taken contains a condition on the performance of which the title is to
pass to the party in possession, although he may not be bound
to perform the condition.
A conditibnal sale does not require a mutual and binding
agreement of sale and purchase. It means an agreement of
sale, provided the contemplated purchaser performs the prescribed condition. Horn v. Baker, 9 East, 215; Strong v.
Taylor, 2 Hill (N. Y.), 326; Herring v. Willard,' 2 Sandf.
(N. Y.) 418.
The court cannot, to palliate the supposed hardships of a
particular case, annul the express provisions of the statute of
Iowa. This it would do if it held that Myer and Dennison
were not " creditors " in the sense of that- statute.
d. The lease provides that the lessee may at any time during its continuance become the owner of the cars on payment of the original cost. Is not some light shed upon this

Oct. 1880.]

MYER V. CAR CO.

singular provision by the stipulation filed in the court below
showing that the actual value of the rent of them was just onehalf of that reserved by the lease ? Doubtless, therefore, long
before the receiver took possession, the lessor had received in
excessive rent their full original cost, and the plea of hardship
in losing them wholly fails.
Hr. .obert" . Ingersoll and Mr. J.ohn I. Butler, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We consider it unnecessary to decide in this case whether a
lease of personal property at a specified rent, with an option in
the lessee to buy for a fixed price, is in legal effec.t a conditional sale; because, even if it be, the decree below is in our
opinion right. In Fosdick v. Schall (99 U. S. 235), a case
which came up from Illinois, we decided that such a contract
of sale,.if not recorded in accordance with the requirements of
the chattel-mortgage acts, was legal ard valid as between the
parties, and that under a mortgage reaching after-acquired
property the mortgagee would take such property subject to
all the conditions with which it was incumbered when it came
into the hands of the mortgagor. The statute we were then
considering was as follows :-

"That no mortgage, trust-deed, or other conveyance of personal
property, having the effect of a mortgage or lien upon such property, shall be valid as against the rights and interests of any third
person, unless possession thereof shall be-delivered, to and remain
with the grantee, or the instrument shall provide for the possessionof the property to remain with the grantor, and the initifument
is acknowledged and recorded as hereinafter directed;.and every
such instrument shall, for the purposes of this act, be deemed a
chattel mortgage." Iev. Sta: Ill., 1874, p. 711.
Under this statute.the courts of Illinois have uniformly held
that contracts of conditional sale are in effect, so far as the
chattel-mortgage acts are concerned, the same as though a
formal bill of sale had been executed and a mortgage given
back to secure the purchase-money. So that the question we
were then called on to decide was whether one holding as a

MYER V. CAR

Co.

[Sup. Ct.

mortgagee of after-acquired property was a "third person"
within the meaning of that law.
The statute of Iowa which is involved in the present case is
as follows: -

"That no sale, contract, or lease, wherein the transfer of title or
ownership of personal property is made to depend upon any condition, shall be valid against any creditor or purchaser of the
vendee or lessee, in actual possession obtained in pursuance thereof,
without notice, unless the same be in writing, executed by the
vendor or lessor, acknowledged and recorded the same as chattel
mortgages." Code of 1873, sect. 1922, p. 356; Acts of Fourteenth
General Assembly, c. 63, p. 69.
It will thus be seen that the statutes of the two States are
substantially alike, unless a different meaning is given the
term " third person," used in the one, from that of " creditor
or purchaser," found in the other. If these terms are the
same in legal effect, the principal question involved in this
case has already been settled here.
In Fosdick v. Schall we held that a mortgagee whose mortgage embraced property to be acquired in the future was in
no sense a purchaser of such property. His rights were not
granted after the property was bought by the mortgagor. He
got nothing by this provision in his mortgage except what the
mortgagor himself bad acquired. He paid nothing for his new
security. He took as mortgagee just such title as the mortgagor had; no more, no less. The code of Iowa, sect. 1283,
authorized mortgages of property afterwards to be acquired,
and made them as valid and effectual as if the property were
in possession at the time of the execution thereof; but this
does not change the case. The question still is, what property
has been acquired to which the mbrtgage can attach.
We think, therefore, that the word "purchaser" in the
Iowa statute gives the appellants no rights other than those to
which they would be entitled under like circumstances in
Illinois.
Every mortgagee is necessarily a creditor. A mortgage is
in general but an incident to the debt it secures, and the
mortgagee is nothing more than a creditor secured by mort-

Oct. 1880.]

MYER

v. OAR Co.

11

gage. These appellants are mortgagees; but, as has just been
seen, their mortgage gives them no rights to the property in
dispute agaihst the car company, the lessor, or conditional
vendor. Their claim is only such as belongs to creditors of
the railroad company, the lessee, or conditional vendee. So
far as any rights they have as simple creditors are concerned,
the railroad company could do with the property just what it
pleased. It might have been surrendered to the car company
or sold to another. The car company, too, could have taken
possession under its lien, and held against any proceeding these
creditors might afterwards commence as- mere creditors. Unless a creditor is in a condition to prevent the vendee from
controlling his property, he is powerless, and the vendor and
-vendee may contract with each other as they please without
consilting him. It follows that although the word "creditor"
appears in the statute, it must have been used with some iimitation. This makes it necessary to inquire what that limitation was.
The statute as we now find it is part of the code of Iowa
adopted in 1873. This code, like the.Revised Statutes of the
United States, was in reality only a convenient compilation or
codification of laws before that time in force. In the brief of
counsel for the appellants, it is stated in terms that the particular section of the code now in question (sect. 1922) is
a copy of chapter 63 of the acts of the Fourteenth General
Assembly.
In relition to the Revised Statutes of the United States, we
held, in Uiited States v. Bowen (100 U. S.508), that "when
it becomes necessary to construe language in the revision
which leaves a substantial doubt as to its meaning, the original
statute may be resorted to for the purpose of ascertaining that
meaning." The same rule. is applicable to the Iowa code, and
there is a substantial doubt here as to what the word "creditor" means. Looking then to the original act, we find the
text the same as the code; but the title, omitted in the codification, is as follows: " An Act requiring conditional sales of
personal property to be recorded like mortgages of personal
property to be of any validity as against bona fide purchasers,
execution and attaching creditors." In cases of doubt the'title

12

MYER v. CAR Co.

[Sup. Ct.

might always be resorted to for the purpose of ascertaining the
meaning of the body of the act; but especially is this true in
States like Iowa',- where the constitution provides that " every
act shall embrace but one subject and matters properly connected therewith; which subject shall be expressed in the title.
But if any subject shall be embraced in an act which shall not
be expressed in the title, such act shall be void only as to so
much thereof as shall not be expressed in the title." Art. 3,
sect. 29. This leaves no doubt, and clearly confines the operation of the text to such creditors as have by suit perfected a
right to impeach the-transaction. Such has always been the
rule in respect to conveyances made to hinder and delay creditors. Until suit was commenced, the parties were at liberty
to deal as they pleased with the property conveyed, and the
rights of creditors were determined by the condition in which
the property was when. they interfered. It is clear, therefore,
that these appellants, as creditors at large, had acquired no
such special interest in the property, when their bill to foreclose their mortgage was filed, as woul-d give them the right to
contest the validity of the car company's title. As against
them, in the condition they were, the lien created by the conditional sale was to all intents and purposes valid and subsisting when the receiver, on his appointment, took possession of
the property; and his possession, as we said in .Posdiek v.
8ehall, was for the benefit of whomsoever in the end it should
be found to concern. The rights of the parties were fixed at
the moment the property was taken by the court through its
receiver into its own possession. At that time these appellants
were not either execution or attaching creditors. They -had
not then, neither have they, since, sued as any other than
mortgage creditors endeavoring to enforce their mortgage lien.
We conclude, therefore, that the-statute of Iowa has a no
more extended operation, so far as the circumstances of this
case are concerned, than that of Illinois, and that under our
former decision the appellants stand precisely where the railroad company would in a controversy with its vendor. To our
minds it is unimportant that under the railroad mortgage laws
of Iowa "the rolling-stock and personal property of the company, properly belonging to the road and appertaining thereto,

Oct. 1880.]

MYER V. CAP CO.

shall be deemed a part of the road," for the purposes of a mortgage. Such personal property is still " loose property, susceptible of separate ownership and separate, liens," and it is only
such interest as "properly belongs," to the company that theauthorized mortgage reaches. The evident purpose of the act
was to do no more than prevent confusion growing out of- any
difference there might be between recording acts having reference to persona] property and those affecting real estate. This
disposes of the principal question in the case.
The money recovery below was only for the use of the cars
by the receiver during the receivership, and the amount was
substantially agreed on. In other words, it is in effect admitted that the use of the cars -was worth to the court while
operating the road under the trust created by the appointment
of a receiver, at the instance of these appellants, just what has
been decreed. There can be no doubt that it is the duty of
a court to pay from the trust fund it has in possession all the
debts it incurred in its judicial capacity while administering
the trust assumed, pending the litigation, in behalf of the litigating parties. The objection here is not that the fund in
hand did not incur the debt, the payment of which has been
ordered, but that the railroad company, while operating the
road before the receivership, paid the car company too large a
sum for the use of its cars, and that the debt of the fund should
be reduced by the amount of this improvident and excessive
payment. There is nothing in the case as it has been brought
here by the appeal which will enable us to determine wvhether
the car company ought to contribute anything to the fund in
court on this account or not. It is sufficient for our purposes
on this appeal that an authorized officer of the court has in a
legitimate way charged the. fund in hand -with the, debt, the
payment of which has been ordered, and that it has not been
proved that the car company owes the railroad company for
over-payments made before the receivership was created.
It is impossible for us to determine from anytiiing now here
whether the receiver is indebted to the car company for the
use of the cars in question after the decree below, or whether
the purchaser of the railroad property under the mortgage has
used the cars pending the appeal, or that he can, in this suit,

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

(Sup. Ct;.

be required to make compensation therefor. All those questions will properly come before the court below for determination on the law and the facts when the case goes down.
-Decreeaffirmed.

RAILROAD

COMrPANY v. NATIONAL BANK.

1. The judgment in an action brought by the holder of negotiable paper
against the indorsers, is not a bar to is subsequent action against the
maker, who was not notified of the pendency of the first action.
2. An estoppel by judgment is equally conclusive upon all the parties to the
action and their privies, and may not be invoked or repudiated at the
pleasure of one of them as his interest may require.
3. The transfer by indorsement to a creditor of negotiable paper before
maturity, merely as security for an antecedent debt, although it is without
his express agreement for indulgence, is not an improper use of such paper,
and is as much in the usual course of commercial business as its transfer
in payment of the debt. In neither case is the bona fide holder affected by
equities or defences between prior parties of which he had no notice.
4. The courts of the United States are not controlled by the decisions of State
courts on questions of general commercial law. Swift v. Tyson (16 Pet. 1)
and Oates v. National Bank (100 U. S. 239) reaffirmed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This was an action by The National Bank of the Repub-

lie of New York against The Brooklyn City and Newtown
Railroad Company
The case, as made by an agreed statement of facts, is this:The company, a corporation organized under the laws of

New York, executed, at Brooklyn, in that State, May 9, 1873,
its promissory note for the sum of $5,000, payable four months
after date to the order of William V LeCount, its treasurer,
at the Atlantic State Bank of Brooklyn. It was indorsed in

blank, first by him, and then by Palmer & Co., a firm composed of Thomas Palmer, Jr., and Anson S. Palmer, the former being the president and the latter the financial agent of
the company, and together owning the larger portion of its
stock. It was made for the purpose only of raising money
thereon for the company
Neither LeCount nor Palmer & Co.

