Oct. 1880.]

TRINIBLE V. WOODHEAD.

between the plaintiff and defendants in the mine in controversy
as entitled the plaintiff to an account." This is not a sufficient
finding of fact upon which to base a decree, it does not state
that there was no co-tenancy between the parties, it implies
that there was a co-tenancy, it only states that there was not
such a one as entitled the plaintiff to an accounting. This is
a mere legal inference, not the finding of a fact. If a cotenancy'of any kind exised, it is a question of law whether or
not it entitles one co-tenant to an accounting from the others.
In considering the whole case, we think that justice will be
subserved by a new hearing. The defendants recognize the
possibility of the plaintiff ultimately establishing his right to
a portion of the proceeds of the mine in their hands against the
claimants of the alleged earlier location. They aver that they
hold the proceeds subject to the determination of pending suits
between those parties. The present decree, if affirmed,. would
cut off any claim of the plaintiff even should he prevail in that
litigation.
The decree will be, therefore, reversed, and the cause remanded with direction to the Supreme Court of the Territory
to send it to the District Court for a new hearing, the parties
to be at liberty to produce new proofs, and it is
So ordered.

TRIBLE v. WOODHEAD.
Glenny v. Langdon (98 U. S. 20) reaffirmed.
APPERAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Kentucky.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

a

Carlisle for the appellant.
lilr John
M11r Stanley Matthews and Mr William I. Bamsey, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant, James S. Trimble, who was complainant below, brought his bill in chancery, which was dismissed on final
hearing upon it, the answer, replication, and proofs.
MR. JUSTIOE MiLLrIR

TRMIBLE V. WOODHEAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Its substance is that Joshua Woodhead was largely indebted
to the complainant for government bonds and money loaned,
and that the judgment which had been rendered against him
therefor proved unavailing, that Ann Woodhead, his wife,
held the legal title to certain valuable lands, which were purchased with his money, and conveyed to her with intent to
defraud his creditors and that valuable improvements had
been placed on the lands, the payment for which was made
with his money It prayed that the lands be subjected to sale
for the payment of the judgment.
The answer of Ann denied all this, and also set up as a bar
to the relief prayed a former suit in one of the State courts
concerning the same subject between the same parties. The
record of the proceedings in the State court is set out in full,
and much evidence on both sides as to the main allegation of
fraud alleged in the bill in the present suit is found in the
record, all of which, in the view we take of the case, is immaterial.
The defendant, Joshua, answered " that long before the
bringing of this suit this defendant had filed his petition ii
this honorable court under the bankrupt law of the United
States, and the said orator, the said James S. Trimble, was
duly notified of the same, and the claim of the said orator
was therein set forth, and after the proper proceedings as prescribed in said law, this defendant was on his petition adjudged
a bankrupt, and by a judgment of this court he was finally
discharged from all of his indebtedness, and the claim of the
orator was one of the debts from which he was thus discharged, he files herewith a copy of his judgment of dis,charge as part hereof."
The proceedings in bankruptcy are not set forth in this
record, nor have we been able to find in it a copy of Woodhead's discharge, but his answer is sworn to. The complainant also filed an amended bill, making John T. Levis, the
alleged assignee in bankruptcy of Joshua, a defendant, and
he says that the judgment in the State court was rendered in
his favor after Joshua's discharge as a bankrupt.
It may, therefore, be accepted as established by the pleadings that Woodhead was regularly discharged of all his debts

Oct. 1880.]

TRIBIBLE V. WOODHEAD.

by proceedings in bankruptcy, and that m those proceedings
John T. Levis was made the assignee with the usual effect of
such an appointment.
It is as well to observe here that while the amended bill of
the complainant made Levis a defendant in his character of
assignee, and the record shows an order of court for process
to issue, no writ, nor any other notice to him, nor the entry
of his appearance in person or by attorney, is found in the
record, As to him, therefore, and the rights which he represented, the bill is of no effect. '
The case of Glenny v Langdon (98 U. S. 20) conclusively
establishes the proposition that the rights asserted in this bill
passed to the assignee in bankruptcy, and that a creditor of
Woodhead cannot. assert them' in his own name.
In that case the complainant sought to avoid this difficulty
by alleging that he hd requested the assignee to bring suit or
assert the right in some other way, who had refused to do so.
That made a stronger case than the present one, where no
such application was made. The abortive effort to make the
assignee a party without the service of process or an appearance for him does not help the case.
Nor can we attach much importance to the allegation in the
amended bill, that two years had elapsed without suit by the
assignee, for he might not have discovered the fraud, or if
brought judicially into court might have asserted his right not
only against the complainant but against Mrs. Woodhead, for
the benefit of all her husband's creditors.
We do not see on what principle the failure of the assignee
to sue within two years transfers his right of action to the
complainant.
The right was-certainly in the assignee, and, if barred by
the Statute of Limitations, would, if it had any effect, on the
title, make good the title of defendant. .Meeks v Olpherts, 100
U. S. 564. It seems to be well settled that, in regard to real
estate, the undisturbed possession of the wrong-doer for the
time necessary to bar the action vests of itself a good title in
the party holding such possession.
It would be a curious application of this principle in the
present case, which concerns realestate, to bold that this same

TRIMBLE V. WOODHEAD.

[Sup. Ct.

lapse of time, instead of making good the defendant's title, or
acting as a bar to the right to bring suit, transfers that right
to another unimpaired by the lapse of time.
Nor is the creditor of a bankrupt without remedy in such a
case as the present. If he is aware of the existence of' property or credits, which should rightfully go to the assignee for
the benefit of the creditors, he should inform the assignee of
all he knows on the subject, and request him to proceed, by
suit if necessary, to recover it. If he declines, a petition to
the court of original jurisdiction would, if a proper case was
made, compel the assignee to proceed. Glenmty v Langdon,
supra. Indeed, the whole question is so fully considered in
that case that little more need be said.
We may, however, suggest consequences readily to be seen
if any other doctrine were held.
The primary object of the bankrupt'law is to secure the
equal distribution of the property of the bankrupt of every
kind among his creditors. This can only be done through
the rights vested in the assignee and by the faithful discharge
of his duties. Let us suppose, however, that a creditor is
aware of the existence of property of the bankrupt sufficient
to satisfy his own debt, which has not come to the possession
or knowledge of the assignee. He has but to keep silence for
two years, and then bring suit in his own name against the
fraudulent holder of this property, and make his debt really
at the expense of the other creditors, or he may have an
understanding with the bankrupt, who, after two years, and
after his own discharge from all his debts, may confess judgment to this creditor and furnish him the evidence to prove
the fraud, and thus secure him a preference forbidden by the
act itself.
In the present case, if any right exists to subject this property in the hands of Ann Woodhead to the payment of the
debts of her husband, which existed prior to the bankruptcy
proceedings, that right is in the assignee, and such right is not
divested by anything shown in this case.
The bill of the appellant was, therefore, properly dismissed.
.Decree affirmed.

