Oct. 1880.]

PENNSYLVANIA

Co. v. Roy.

ordered to sell as master He was required to make a report
to the court, to pay into court any surplus arising from the
sale, there to abide the court's order. The decree also contemplated a report of the sale'by the master, and a confirmation
of it by the court. The sale, therefore, as ordered, was in all
respects a judicial sale, instead of a sale by the trustee under
the power conferred by the deed. Hence it comes within the
rule declared in Brmne v. Insurance Company, and the right top
redeem should have been preserved in the decree.
For this error, as well as for the mistake in the amount adjudged to be due the complainant, the decree must be reversed.
In all other particulars the decree was correct.
The decree will be reversed, and the record remitted with
instructions to enter a decree in accordance with this opinion,
and it is
So ordered.

PENNS1LVANIA C0MrANY v. Roy.
1. A carrier of passengers for hire is bound to observe the utmost caution, and
is responsible to them for such injuries received in the course of their transportation as might have been avoided or guarded against by his exercise of
extraordinary vigilance, aided by the highest skill.
2. Such caution and vigilance extend to all the appliances and means used by
him in transporting them. He must, therefore, provide cars or vehicles
adequate, that is, sufficiently secure as to strength and other requisites,
for their safe conveyance,, and he is liable in damages if, by reason of
the slightest negligence or fault in that regard, injury results to a passenger.
3. A passenger purchased from a railroad company a ticket over its line, and,
at the same time, from a palace-car company a ticket entitling him to a
berth in one of its sleeping-cars, constituting a part of the train of the railroad company. In the course of transportation le was injured by the
falling of a berth in the sleeping-car in which he was at the time riding.
Held, that for the purposes of the contract with the railroad company for
transportation, and in view of its obligation to use only cars that were
adequate for safe conveyance, the palace-car company, its conductor and
porter, were, in law, the servants and employ6s of the railroad company,
and that the negligence of either of them, as to any matters involving the
safety or security of passengers, was that of the railroad company.
4. In such case, the injured passenger being entitled only to compensatory dam-

PENNSYLVANIA CO. v. RoY.

[Sup. Ct.

ages, evidence as to his poverty or the number and ages of his children, is
irrelevant.
6. Where, before the final submission of the case to the jury irrelevant evidence, winch had been admitted, was withdrawn, and they were instructed
to disregard it,-Hela, that an exception to the action of the court will
not be sustained, the presumption being, so far as this court is concerned,
that, under such circumstances, the jury based their verdict upon legal
evidence only.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
J1Jr J T. Brooks and ZVr George Willard for the plaintiff in
error.
Mr John Van Arman, contra.
MI. JUSTICE HARLANr delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error from a judgment for the sum of
$10,000, the amount assessed as damages sustained by the defendant in error, in consequence of personal injuries received
while riding, as a passenger, in a sleeping-car which belonged
to the Pullman Palace Car Company, but constituting, at the
time the injuries were received, a part of a train of cars managed and controlled by the Pennsylvania Company, as lessee
and operator of the Pittsburg, Fort Wayne, and Chicago Railway
The action was commenced in the Supreme Court of
Cook County, Illinois, against the Pennsylvania Company, the
Pittsburg, Fort Wayne, and Chicago Railroad Company, and.
It was subsequently disthe Pullman Palace Car Company
missed by the plaintiff against all the defendants except the
Pennsylvania Company, and then removed for trial into the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, where the judgment complained of was rendered.
The facts set forth in the bill of exceptions, so far as it is
material to detail them, are these On the 5th of June, 1876, Roy, the defendant in error, purchased at the office of the lessee company, in the city of
Chicago, a "first-class railroad ticket" from that city to Philadelphia, over the line of that company, paying therefor the
sum of $14.40. At the same time and place, and of the same

Oct. 1880.]

PENNSYLVANIA

CO. V. ROY.

person, he purchased a sleeping-car ticket, issued by the Pullman Palace Car Company, for the route between the same
cities, and for that ticket he paid the additional sum of $5.
He took the train the same day, going immediately into the
section of the sleeping-car corresponding to his ticket.
The next morning, at Alliance, Ohio, upon the invitation of
a friend, travelling upon the same train, he entered the sleeping-car in which that friend was riding, and there engaged
with him in conversation. While so engaged, the upper berth
of the section in which they were sitting fell. Thereupon the
porter of the sleeping-car came at once and put up the berth,
saying it would not fall again. Shortly thereafter the berth
fell a second time, striking the plaintiff upon the bead, injuring
his brain, incapacitating him from pursuing his vocation, and
necessitating medical treatment.
After the second falling of the berth, the brace or arm supporting it was found to be broken.
The evidence introduced by the plaintiff tended also to show
that the Pennsylvania Company provided cars in which passengers having railroad tickets could ride without purchasing
a sleeping-car ticket, that Roy had much experience in travelling, and would have gone into one of those cars had he not
purchased a sleeping-car ticket, that at the time he purchased
it he did not know what company ran the sleepers, but upon
taking the train he ascertained it was a Pullman car, that
the Pullman Palace Car Company was engaged in furnishing cars to be run in the trains of railroad companies, that,
besides the general conductor of the train, there was a conductor, in uniform, and a porter, whose duty it was to make
up the berths and attend to the wants of passengers occupying
the sleeping-car.
Upon the trial the plaintiff introduced a time and distance
card of the defendant corporation, issued, published, and circulated by that company during the year 1876, prior to the
date of his injuries. That card, referring to the" Fort Wayne
and Pennsylvania R. R. line," stated that three express trains
left Chicago daily, one "withpopular vestibule sleepng-ear," one
"with drawing-room and hotel car," and one " with drawingroom sleeping-car" It gave notice that "phssage, excursion,

454

PENNSYLVANIA

CO. V. Roy.

[Sup. Ct.

and sleeping-car tickets " could be purchased at the defendant
company's office in Chicago. Referring to the " Fort Wayne
and Pennsylvania line," the same card announced that "no road
offers equal facilities in the number of through trains, equipped
with Pullman palace sleepng-cars." It states, among the advantages of the "Pittsburg, Fort Wayne, and Pennsylvania
through line," that the latter was the "only line running three
through trains, with Pullman .palace-cars,"and "the only line
runnzng sleeping-cars from Chicago and intermediate stations
to Philadelphia without change." The same card gave the
rates charged for berths and sections in Pullman sleeping-cars
from Chicago to points east of that city
The defendant, to maintain the issues on its part, offered to
prove 1. That the sleeping-car in which the accident occurred, and
all the sleeping-cars then and theretofore on the defendant's
line, since the 27th of January, 1870, were owned by the Pullman Palace Car Company, a corporation of the State of Illinois,
and not by the defendant, that said sleeping-cars were run in
the same trains with the defendant s cars, that holders of railroad tickets were entitled to ride in said sleeping-cars, provided
they also held sleeping-car tickets.
2. That the Pullman Palace Car Company, and it only,
issued tickets for sale, entitling passengers to ride in said sleepmag-cars, that such tickets were plainly distinguishable from
railroad tickets, and were sold at offices established by said
company, and indicated as places for the sale of such tickets,
that the plaintiff purchased the sleeping-car ticket of the same
person of whom he bought the railroad ticket, that the office
where purchased indicated by plain lettering upon its door that
it was a place for the sale of Pullman Palace Car Company
tickets, as well as railroad tickets.
3. That the Pullman Palace Car Company employed persons
to take charge of its cars, and the latter, whilst in use, were in
the immediate charge of a conductor and a porter employed by
that company, that such conductor and porter were the only
persons who had authority to manage and control the interior
of said cars, and the berths and seats and the appurtenances
thereto.

Oct. 1880.]

PENNSYLVANIA Co. i . Roy.

To this proof the plaintiff objected, and the objection was
sustained, to which ruling the company excepted.
The court thereupon charged the jury that the proof tended
"to show that the injury was received by reason of the negligence of the defendant's agents or servants, or by some negligence in the construction of the car in which the plaintiff was
riding." To that charge the company at the time excepted,
upon the ground that it was unsupported by the testimony, and
because it assumed as a fact that the persons, in charge of the
sleeping-car were the company's agents or servants.
The court further charged the jury that "the defendant has
offered in your presence to prove that the car in which the
plaintiff was injured was not the car or the actual property of
the defendant, but was the property of another corporation.
But I instruct, as a part of the law of this case, that if the
car composed a part of the train in which the plaintiff and
other passengers were to be transported upon ther journey,
and the plaintiff was injured while in that car, without any
fault of his own, and by reason either of the defective construction of the car or by some negligence on the part of
those having charge of the car, then the defendant is liable."
To that charge also the defendant exceptea.
We are of opinion that there was no substantial error, either
m exclading the evidence offered by the defendant, or in the
charge to the jury The court only applied to a new state of
facts, principles very generally recognized as fundamental in
the law of passenger carriers. Those thus engaged are under
an obligation, arisihg out of the nature of their employment,
and, on grounds of public policy, vigorously enforced, to provide
for the safety of passengers whom they have assumed, for hire,
to carry from one place to another. In Philadelphia & Reading Railroad Company v -Derby (14 Howy 468), it was said
that when carriers undertake to convey persons by the powerful and dangerous agency of steam, public policy and safety
require that they be held to the greatest possible care and diligence, - that the personal safety of passengers should not be
left to the sport of chance, or the negligence of careless agents.
This doctrine was expressly affirmed in Steamboat New World
v King, 16 id. 469. In Stokes v Saltonstall (13 Pet. 181),

PENNSYLVANIA Co. v. Roy.

[Sup. Ct.

affirming the decision of Mr. Chief Justice Taney on the circuit, we said, that although the carrier does not warrant the
safety of the passengers, at all events, yet his undertaking and
liability, as to them, go to the extent that lie or his agents,
where he acts by agents, shall possess competent skill, and, as
far as human care and foresight can go, he will transport them
safely The principles there announced were approved in
Railroad Company v Pollard (22 Wall. 841), where, speaking
by the present Chief Justice, we said that we saw no necessity
for reconsidering Stokes v Satonscall.
These and many other adjudged cases, cited with approval
in elementary treatises of acknowledged authority, show that
the carrier is required, as to passengers, to observe the utmost
caution characteristic of very careful, prudent men. He is
responsible for injuries received by passengers in the course
of their transportation which might have been avoided or
guarded against by the exercise upon his part of extraordinary
vigilance, aided by the highest skill. And this caution and
vigilance must necessarily be extended to all the agencies or
means employed by the carrier in the transportation of the
passenger. Among the duties resting upon him is the important one of providing cars or vehicles adequate, that is, sufficiently secure as to strength and other requisites, for the safe
conveyance of passengers. That duty the law enforces with
great strictness. For the slightest negligence or fault in this
regard, from which injury results to the passenger, the carrier
is liable in d3amages. These doctrines to which the courts,
with few exceptions, have given a firm and steady support,
aind winch it is neither wise nor just to disturb or question,
would, however, lose much, if not all, of their practical value,
if carriers are permitted to escape responsibility upon the
ground that the cars or vehicles used by them, and from whose
insufficiency injury has resulted to the passenger, belong to
others.
The undertaking of the railroad company was to carry the
defendant in error over its line in consideration of a certain
sum, if lie elected to ride in what is known as a first-class passenger car, with the privilege, nevertheless, expressly givcen in
its published notices, of riding in a sleeping-car, constituthng a

Oct. 1880.]

PENNSYLVANIA

Co. v. Roy.

part of the carrner's tram, for an additional sum paid to the
company owning such car.
As between the partieg now before us, it is not material that
the sleeping-car in question was owned by the Pullman Palace Car Company, or that such company provided at its own
expense a conductor and porter for such car, to whom was
committed the immediate control of its interior arrangements.
The duty of the railroad company was to convey the passenger over its line. In performing that duty, it could not, consistently with the law and the obligations arising out of the
nature of its business, use cars or vehicles whose inadequacy or
insufficiency, for safe conveyance, was discoverable upon the
most careful and thorough examination. If it chose to make
no such examination, or to cause it to be made, if it elected
to reserve or exercise no such control or right of inspection,
from time to time, of the sleeping-cars which it used in conveying passengers, as it should exercise over its own cars,- it
was chargeable with negligence or failure of duty
The law
will conclusively presume that the conductor and porter, assigned by the Pullman Palace Car Company to the control
of the interior arrangements of the sleeping-car in which Roy
was riding when injured, exercised such control with the assent
of the railroad company. For the purposes of the contract
under which the railroad company undertook to carry Roy
over its line, and, in view of its obligation to use only cars
that were adequate for safe conveyance, the sleeping-car company, its conductor and porter, were, in law, the servants and
employ6s of the railroad company
Their negligence, or the
negligence of either of them, as to any matters involving the
safety or security of passengers while being conveyed, was
the negligence of the railroad- company
The law will not
permit a railroad- company, engaged in the business of carrying persons for hire, through any device or arrangement with
a sleeping-car company whose cars are used by the railroad
company, and constitute a part of its tram, to evade the duty
of providing proper means for the safe conveyance of those
whom it has agreed to convey
2 Kent, Com. 600, 12th ed.,
2 Parsons, Contracts, 218, 219, 6th ed., Story, Bailments,
sects. 601, 601 a, 602, Cooley, Torts, 642, Wharton, Negli-

PENNSYLVANIA

Co. v. Roy.

[Sup. 0t.

gence (2d ed.), sect. 627 et seg., Chitty, Carriers, 256 et seq.,
and cases cited by the authors.
It is also an immaterial circumstance that Roy, -when injured, was not sitting in the particular sleeping-car to which
he had been originally assigned. His right, for a time, to
occupy a seat in the car in which his fiend was riding
was not, and, under the facts disclosed, could not be questioned.
Whether the Pullman Palace Car Company is not also, and
equally, liable to the defendant in error, or whether it may not
be liable over to the railroad company for any damages which
the latter may be required to pay on account of the injury
complained of, are questions which need not be here considered. That corporation was dismissed from the case, and it is
not necessary or proper that we should now determine any
question between it and others.
Upon the trial below, the plaintiff was allowed, against the
objection of the defendant, to make proof as to his financmal
condition, and to show that, after being injured, his sources of
income were very limited.
This evidence was obviously irrelevant. The plaintiff, in
view of the pleadings and evidence, was entitled to compensation, and nothing more, for such damages as he had sustained
in consequence of injuries received. But the damages were
not, in law, dependent in the slightest degree upon his condition as to wealth or poverty It is manifest, however, from
the record, that the learned judge who presided at the trial
subsequently recognized the error committed in the admission
of that testimony After charging the jury that the measure
of plaintiff's damages was .the pecuniary loss sustained by him
in consequence of the injuries received, and after stating the
rules by which such loss should be ascertained, the court proceeded "But the jury should not take into consideration any
evidence touching the plaintiff's pecuniary condition at the
time he received the injury, because it is wholly immaterial
how much a man may have accumulated up to the time he is
injured, the real question being, how much his ability to earn
money in the future has been impaired."
Notwithstanding this emphatic direction that the jury should

Oct. 1880.]

PENNSYLVANIA

Co. v. Roy.

exclude from consideration any evidence in relation to the pecuniary condition of the plaintiff, the contention of the defendant is, that the original error was not thereby cured, and that
we should assume that the jury, disregalding the court's peremptory instructions, made the poverty of the plaintiff an
element in the assessment of damages, and this, although
the record discloses nothing justifying the conclusion that the
jury disobeyed the directions of the court. To this position
we cannot assent, although we are referred to some adjudged
cases which seem to announce the broad proposition that an
error in the admission of evidence cannot afterwards be corrected by instructions to the jury, so as to cancel the exception
taken to its admission. But such a rule would be exceedingly
inconvenient in practice, and would often seriously obstruct
the course of business in the courts. It cannot be sustained
upon principle, or by sound reason, and is against the great
weight of authority The charge from the courfCthat the jury
should not consider evidence which had been improperly admitted, was equivalent to striking it out of the case. The
exception to its admission fell when the error was subsequently
corrected by instructions too clear and positive to be misunderstood by the jury The presumption should not be indulged
that the jury were too ignorant to comprehend, or were too
unmindful of their duty to respect, instructions as to matters
peculiarly within the province of the court to determine. It
should rather be, so far as this coqrt is concerned, that the
jury were influenced in their verdict only by legal evidence.
Any other rule would make it necessary in every trial, where
an error in the admission of proof is committed, of which error
the court becomes aware before the final submission of the
case to the jury, to suspend the trial, discharge the jury, and
commence anew A rule of practice leading to such results
cannot meet with approval.
There was, however, an error committed upon the trial, to
which exception was duly taken, but which does not seem to
have been remedied by any portion of the charge appearing
'in the bill of exceptions. The plaintiff was permitted, against
the objection of the defendant, to give the number and ages
of his children,- a son ten years of age, and three daughters

PENNSYLVANIA

Co. v. Roy.

[Sup. Ot.

of the ages, respectively, of fourteen, seventeen, and twentyone. This evidence does not appear to have been withdrawn
from the consideration of the jury It certainly had no legitimate bearing upon any issue in the case. The manifest object
of its introduction was to inform the jury that the plaintiff had
infant children dependent upon him for support, and, consequently, that his injuries involved the comfort of his family
This proof,.in connection with the impairment of his ability
to earn money, was well calculated to arouse the sympathies
of the jury, and to enhance the damages beyond the amount
which the law permitted, that is, beyond what was, under all
the circumstances, a fair and just compensation to the person
suing for the injuries received by him. How far the assessment of damages was controlled by this evidence as to the
plaintiff's family it is impossible to determine with absolute
certainty, but the reasonable presumption is that it had some
influence upon the verdict.
The court, in a manner well calculated to attract the attention of the jury, withdrew from their consideration the evidence in regard to the financial condition of the plaintiff, but
as nothing was said by it touching the evidence as to the ages
of his children, they had the right to infer that the proof as to
those matters was not withdrawn, and should not be ignored
in the assessment of damages.
For this error alone the judgment is reversed, and the cause
remanded for a new trial.
So ordered.

