-Oct. 1880.]

WItTE

v.

NATIONAL BANK.

court had refused as evidence, which money was placed to
the credit of defendant in a New York bank, and afterwards
drawn by defendant, the defendant was liable for such money
The judgment will be reversed, and the case remanded with
directions to set aside the verdict and grant a new trial, and
it is

So ordered.
NoTE. - Third National Bank v. National Bank, error to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Colorado, was argued by Mr. William H.
Scott for the plaintiff in error, and by Mt. Henry 31. Teller for the defendant in
error.
Ma. JUSTIC MILLEiR delivered the opinion of the-court.
The action in the present case is brought against the same defendant on
indorsements of drafts precisely similar to the indorsements in White v. National
Bank, though by. a different plaintiff. There is in that case the same money
count joined with special counts on the drafts, and the same evidence 'that the
money came to the use of the defendant.
In this case, however, the parties waived a jury, and the court found no facts,
but rendered a general finding for the defendant. We have had some difficulty;
therefore, in disturbin-the judgment, as there is no charge to the jury and no
instructions asked and refused.
A bill of exceptions, however, embodies tie, evidence, and shows that the
court refused to receive the drafts in evidence, although the accompanying evidence of the receipt of the money by defendant, and its payment by plaintiff,
was the same as in the other case. To this ruling there was 'an exception.
We are of opinion that the drafts, the peculiar indorsement, and the payment
of the money by the plaintiff, and its receipt and use by the defendant, were
each and all parts df a transaction admissible as evidence of money paid by
plaintiff to the use of defendant, to be repaid on request, and that the court
erred in rejecting any part of it.
The judgment will therefore be reversed for that error, and the case remanded
with directions to grant a new trial.
So ordered.

