BUCHANAN v. LITCHFIELD.

[Sup. Or.

or whether, if it was, this immunity could be transferred to
a purchaser at a sale to enforce the statutory lien retained
by the State, even with the aid of the jurisdiction conferred
on the Chancery Court of Nashville by the act of Dec. 21,
1870.
Judgment affirmed.

BUCHANAN V. LIToannILD.
1. The twelfth section of the ninth article of the Constitution of Illinois, adopted
in 1870, declares that "no county city township, school district, or other
municipal corporation, shall be allowed to become indebted in any manner, or for any purpose, to an amount, including existing indebtedness, in
the aggregate exceeding five per centum on the value of the taxable property therein, to be ascertained by the last assessment for State and county
taxes previous to the incurring of such indebtedness." Under a statute of
that State, approved April 1, 1873, authorizing cities to construct waterworks, and for that purpose to appropriate and borrow money, and levy and
collect a general tax in the same manner as other municipal taxes may be
levied and collected, the city of Litchfield, by her ordinance, authorized
and directed the issue of city bonds not exceeding a certain amount to
be used for borrowing money for the erection, construction, and maintenance of water-works for the use of the people of that city. Bonds in the
form and amount prescribed were accordingly issued, bearing date Jan. 1,
1874. Bach recites that it "is issued under authority of an act of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois, entitled An Act authorizing cities,
incorporated towns, and villages to construct and maintain water-works,
approved April 15, 1873, and in pursuance of an ordinance of the said city
of Litchfield, No. 184, and entitled An Ordinance to provide for the issuing
of bonds for the construction of the Litchfield water-works, approved
lDec. 4, 1873." The said twelfth section is not referred to in the statute or
the ordinance, nor does the latter make mention of the city's indebtedness,
although at the time of the issue of the bonds it exceeded the constitutional
limit. A bona fide holder of them brought suit upon the unpaid coupons
thereto attached. Held, that he was not entitled to recover.
2. Inasmuch as neither the Constitution nor the statute prescribes any mode by
which a party dealing with the city can ascertain the amount of her indebtedness, quwre, if the bonds had contained recitals which could be justly interpreted as amounting to a representation by her constituted authorities,
that her indebtedness, increased by the amount of the bonds, did not exceed
the constitutional limit, would she, as against a bona fide holder of them, be
estopped from disputing the truth of such representations.
3. The present case distinguished from others, wherein it was held that certain
recitals in the bonds of a municipal corporation were conclusive as to their
validity, and its liability to pay them.

Oct. 1880.]

BUCHANAN v. LITCHFIELD.

4. In determining whether the constitutional limit of the indebtedness of the
city had been exceeded by the issue of the bonds, the court permittedthere having been no separate assessment of the property within the city
for the preceding year made or required by law - the introduction of the
assessments for State and county taxes embracing all taxable property
within the county and townships of which the city formed a part, from
which, in connection with a map, the location and taxabl& value of all the
property within the limits of the city for that year could be readily ascertained. Held, that the evidence, being the best which the law afforded, was
properly admitted.
5. Qucre, Is the city legally bound to refund to the proper parties the money
which her authorized agents or officers received and paid into her treasury
as the proceeds of the sale of the bonds.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
This was an action of assumpsit, brought Nov 25, 1876, by
Alexander Buchanan against the City of Litchfield, Illinois,
to recover the amount of certain coupons of which it was
admitted that he was the bona fide holder for value. The
declaration, besides a count upon the. coupons themselves, contains the usual counts for money lent and advanced, and for
money had and received. The city defended the action upon
the ground that the bonds were issued in violation of the Constitution of the State, and that they were consequently void.
The court which, by the stipulation of the parties, tried the
issue found for the defendant, and the plaintiff sued out this
writ.
The legislature of Illinois passed, April 15, 1873, an act
entitled "An Act authorizing cities, incorporated towns, and
villages to construct and maintain water-works," by the first
section of which act it is provided that all cities, incorporated
.towns, and villages in the State be, and are hereby, authorized
and shall have power to provide for a supply of water for
the purpose of fire protection and for'the use of the inhabitants of such cities, incorporated' towns, and villages, by the
erection, construction, and maintaining of a system of waterworks.
The second section provides that such cities, incorporated
towns, and villages may borrow money, and levy and collect a
general tax in the same manner as other municipal taxes may
be levied and collected, for the erection, construction, and main-

BUCHANAN V. LITCHFIELD.

[Sup. Ct.

taming of such water-works, and appropriate money for the
same.
The city council, the legislative authority of the city, adopted,
Dec. 4, 1873, an ordinance in the words following "An Ordinance to provide for the sssumng of -Bondsfor the Construction of the Litchfield Water-works.
"Be it ordained by the city council of the city of Litchfield
"SECT. 1. That in accordance with the power conferred by section second of an act of the General Assemblv of the State of
Illinois, entitled ' An Act authorizing cities, incorporated towns and
villages to construct and maintain water-works,' approved April 15,
1873, the mayor and city clerk are hereby authorized and instructed
to issue not exceeding fifty thousand dollars in Litchfield water
bonds, which bonds shall be used for borrowing money for the erection, constructing, and maintaining of water-works fbr the use of
the people of said city of Litchfield.
"SECT. 2. That the said Litchfield water bonds shall be of the de-

nomination of five hundred dollars each, shall be dated Jan. 1, 1874,
and shall become due twenty years after said date, but may be redeemed at par at any time after the year 1878, notice being given at
the Nassau Bank, in the city of New York, six months in advance
of the intention so to redeem, and said bonds shall bear interest at
the rate of ten per centum per annum, payable semi-annually at the
said Nassau Bank in the city of New York."
As required by the charter, the mayor of the city approved
this ordinance, and after its adoption he and the city clerk made
one hundred bonds of the denomination of $500 each, as follows, differing in the numbering from 1 to 100, inclusive.
"No.-]

LITOHFIELD WATER BOND.
"CITY

OF LITCHFIELD,

STATE

[$500.00.

OF ILLS.

"The City of Litclifield, in the State of Illinois, for value received,
promises to pay to Geo. Win. Ballou or bearer five hundred dollars,
ii current money of the United States, at the Nassau Bank in the
city of New York, twenty years after date, with interest thereon
from the date hereof at the rate of ten per centuim per annum,
which interest shall be payable semi-annually in current money of
the United States on presentation at said bank of the coupons
hereto annexed .Provided, that the said city of Litchfield shall

Oct. 1880.]

BucHANAN v. LITCHFIELD.

have the right to pay off and redeem this bond at its par value at
any time after the year A. D. 1878, first giving said bank six
months' notice in writing of the intention to so redeem.
"This bond is issued under authority of an act of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois, entitled ' An Act authorizing cities,
incorporated towns, and villages to construct and maintain waterworks,' approved April 15, 1873, and in pursuance of an ordinance
of the said city of Litchfield numbered 184, and entitled ' An Ordinance to provide for the issuing of bonds fir the construction of
the Litchfield water-works,' approved Dec. 4, 1873.
"In testimony whereof, the mayor of said city has hereunto set his
hand and caused the corporate seal to be affixed, and the clerk of
s.,id city to countersign the same this first day of January A.D. 1874.
"W

S. PALMER, 2lfayor

"B. S. HooD, City Clerk."
Coupons for the semi-annual interest were attached to the
bonds, and the whole number, amounting to $50,000, were sold
by the city for the purposes for which they were authorized.
The plaintiff's coupons were due July 1, 1876.
The defendant then proved against .the objection of the
plaintiff, who insisted that such evidence was not admissible
against him as the bona fide holder of the coupons, that the
city of Litchfield is incorporated under a special law which
defines its boundaries, that there was no assessment made of
the taxable property within said city for the year 1873, separately, but that the city is within the limits of two municipal
townships organized under the township organization laws of the
State, one called North Litchfield and the other South Litchfield, each six miles square, and that the taxable property iii
the city was assessed for State and county taxes in the township in which it was situated and to which it belonged ;- that
the property of the city as assessed for State and county taxes
for the year 1873 was $1,400,000, which valuation was ascertained by the following method The assessors of North and South Litchfield returned to the
clerk of the county court the lists, and value of the property
assessed for taxation for the year 1873 in said townships respectively, which lists contained a description of all the lands,
lots, and other real estate in said township, with the proper

B UCHANAN v. LITCHFIELD.

[Sup. Ot.

valuation opposite each tract or lot. With these lists and the
plat of the city before him, the clerk was able to ascertain the
description and value of all the real estate in the city, and by
footing the value of the several lands and lots found within the
city limits the aggregate value of all the real estate of the city
was ascertained for the year 1873.
By another special law the city of Litchfield is made one
school district, called the Litchfield school district. And it is
a part of the legal duty of the township to note opposite the
name of each owner of personal property assessed for taxation
the school district in which he resides. That the assessors of
North and South Litchfield for the year 1873 noted opposite
the names of the owners of personal property in their township
residing within the city limits that they resided in Litchfield
school district, and the assessed value of the personal property
of the city of Litchfield was ascertained by computing the value
of all the personal property assessed for taxation in the school
district.
That railroad property and the property of corporations were
assessed by the State Board of Equalization, and the whole
value of these species of property lying in Montgomery County
(in which the city of Litchfield is situated) was certified by
the auditor to the county clerk, and the proportion taxable in
Litchfield was ascertained by the clerk.
That the assessment thus made by the town assessors of the
towns of North and South Litchfield was the only assessment
made, or authorized by law to be made, of the property situated
in the city of Litchfield for State and county taxes for the year
1873, and which assessment for'the purposes aforesaid was the
last assessment for State and county taxes previous to the issuing and making of said bonds. That by compiling the assessments thus made the exact amount of the value of taxable
property in said city of Litchfield for the year 1873, as assessed
for State and county taxes, should be and is ascertained-to be
the said sum of $1,400,000.
It was proved that the debt of the city of Litchfield on and
before the first day of January, 1874, exclusive of the water
bonds, was 70,000.
Sect. 12 of art. D, in force in 1870, of the Constitution of the

Oct. 1880.]

BUCHANAN

V. LITCHFIELD.

State, is in these words "No county, city, township, school district, or other municipal corporation shall be allowed to become
indebted in any manner or for any purpose to an amount including existing indebtedness in the aggregate exceeding five
per centum on the value ol the taxable property therein to be
ascertained by the last assessment for State and county taxes
previous to the incurring of such indebtedness."
Upon the trial the following questions arose First, Whether said twelfth section of the ninth article of the
Constitution of the State of Illinois, by its own force and terms,
without appropriate legislation, limited or affected the otherwise lawful power of the city of Litchfield to issue the bonds
and coupons, and sell the same to raise money for the construction of water-works according to the provisions of the act of
April 15, 1878, and the ordinance of the city of Litchfield No.
184, in relation thereto, so as to render said bonds and coupons
void as being in excess of five per cent including existing
indebtedness on the value of taxable property in said city as
ascertained by the last assessment for State and county taxes
preceding the issue of such bonds.
Second, Whether the facts offered in evidence for the purpose of showing the value of taxable property in the city of
Litchfield for the year 1878 are competent and sufficient to
establish the value of taxable property therein, to be ascertained by the last assessment thereof, for State and county
taxes previous to the issue of such bonds.
Thtrd, Whether the said facts tending to prove that the said
bonds, including the indebtedness of said city, exceed five per
cent on the value of the taxable property of said city at the
time they were issued, as ascertained in manner before stated,
are admissible or competent as evidence in this case to impair
the rights of the plaintiff as the bona fide bolder of the coupons sued on.
And the opinion of the said judges being opposed upon the
questions, the latter were duly certified to this court.
Mr John H. Palmer and Mr Prank Morson for the plaintiff in error.
The defence relied upon by the city is the nullity of the
bonds by reason of her asserted absolute want of power to issue

BUCHANAN

v. LITCHFIELD.

[Sup. Ct.

them. It rests upon the constitutional clause, that "no county,
city, &c., shall be allowed," &c. The question arises, whether
the clause operates 2ropyro vtgore upon municipal corporations,
and imposes an actual limitation upon them, or whether it enjoins a duty upon the legislature, when either creating them
or providing for the government and control of such as are
already in existence. The sounder view, we submit, is that it
requires for its enforcement legislation prescribing, under adequate penalties, the duties of the officers of a municipal corporation and declaring the mode by which those dealing with
them may ascertain its indebtedness. None has been enacted.
But, conceding the clause to be self-operating, it does not
unconditionally prohibit the city from contracting debts for
the purposes enumerated in its charter, or in the act of April
15, 1873. That power is expressly granted, and the limitation upon it taking effect only under certain circumstances,
the question as to when it may be lawfully exercised must
be necessarily dependent upon the decision of the city council
whether they do in fact exist. That body alone has access
to the means by which they can be investigated and determined. The passage of the ordinance, so far as innocent third
parties are concerned, was a final and authoritative declaration by those who were clothed with authority to make it, that
no circumstances existed which prerluded the exercise of that
power. The bonds issued, whereon the money was raised to
carry that ordinance into effect, are, therefore, valid securities
in the hands of a bona fide holder for value. The city is as
effectually estopped by their recitals as if the ordinance had
declared in express terms, as it now does virtually and by
necessary implication, that, at the time of its passage, her debt,
including that thereby incurred, would not be in excess of the
prescribed amount.
Under the well-settled rule of this court, that nothing but
a total want of power renders this class of securities void in
the hands of such a holder, bonds issued without proper formalities, bonds issued contrary to the provisions of the laws
authorizing them, bonds fraudulently issued, stolen bonds, the
proceeds of which never reached the municipalities issuing
them, and bonds declared to be invalid by the courts of the

Oct. 1880.]

BUCHANAN V. LITCHFIELD.

States in which they were issued, have all been pronounced
good here. The municipalities have been held to the payment
of them, without regard to any equities which would constitute a good defence against a party who had notice of them.
Commisstoners of Knox County v Aspinwall, 21 How 539; i'horan v Miamt County, 2 Black, 732, Mercer County v Racket,
1 Wall. 83, Mayor v Muscatine, id. 38.4, Henncott v Supervzsors, 16 id. 452, Supervisors v Schenk, 5 id. 784, County of
Davess v iuzdekoper, 98 U. S. 98, County of Schuyler v
Thomas, id. 169, County of Callaway v Foster, 93 id. 567,
County of Scotland v Thomas, 94 id. 682, County of Warren
v Marcy, 97 id. 96, Cromwell v County of Sac, 96 id. 51,
Commzssioners v Bolles, 94 id. 104, Commissioners v January,
id. 202.
Marcy v Township of Oswego (92 id. 637) was a suit on bonds
issued under the authority of.a statute of Kansas, which provided that they should not exceed such a sum as would require a levy of more than one per cent per annumn to pay the
yearly interest. Each recited that it was issued by virtue of
and in accordance with that statute, and in pursuance of and
in accordance with the vote of three-fifths of the legal voters of
the township. A recovery was resisted, upon the ground that
the authorized amount was exceeded, but this- court held the
bonds to be valid in the hands of -a bona fide holder, and remarked " It is to be observed that every prerequisite fact to
the execution and issue of the bonds was of a nature that required examination and decision. The existence of sufficient
taxable property to warrant the amount of the subscription and
issue was no more essential to the exercise of the authority
conferred upon the board of county commissioners than was
the petition for the election, or the fact that fifty freeholders
had signed, &c. These are all extrinsic facts, bearing not
so much upon the authority vested in the board to issue the
bonds, as upon the question whether that authority should be
exercised."
The bonds now in question recite that they are issued under
the authority of an act of the General Assembly and pursuant
to an ordinance of the city The cases are not distinguishable
in principle. The only difference in point of fact is that the

BUCHANAN

V. LITCHFIELD.

[Sup. Ct.

prohibition in one is declared by statute, and in the other by a
constitutional provision. It is hardly necessary to say that a
law passed pursuant to the Constitution has, while it remains
in force, the same binding efficacy as the Constitution itself.
In Humboldt Townshp v. Long (id. 642), which was governed
by the same statute, the required notice of the popular election
was not given. This court, however, reaffirming the doctrines
of Marcy v Townshp of Oswego, ruled, in view of the recitals in
the bonds, - and they are not substantially different in effect
from those in the present case, - that the township was liable.
Unless the vote cast at such an electlon was in favor of the
issue of the bonds, the commissioners were not authorized to
order it. Their decision that the election had been duly held,
although only inferrible from their order for the issue, was
regarded as conclusive. So here, under the statute of Illinois
and her Constitution, giving to the latter the broadest Vffect,
it was a condition precedent to the power of the city council that certain facts, peculiarly if not exclusively witlnn its
knowledge, should exist, but which a third party had no means
of ascertaining. The exercise of the power was a decision by
the appointed tribunal that such facts existed. We may therefore insist, in the language of Mr. Justice Strong, that "the
bonds are not invalid by reason of their having been voted and
issued in excess of the statutory (constitutional) limit." TRilson v Salamanca (99 id. 499) is to the same effect, and the
decisions here contain nothing in conflict therewith.
If the city had contracted with a party to erect the waterworks, she, after accepting them and enjoying the benefit and
protection which they afford, could not set up that the contract
entailed upon her a debt in excess of the amount she was
allowed to incur. Unzon Water Co. v Murplqhy s Flat Plumzng
Go., 22 Cal. 650, Whitney Arms Co. v Barlow et al., 63 N. Y
62. The bondholders' case is as meritorious as his, because
their money was, in this instance, faithfully applied to the
construction and maintenance of those works.
Again, if the city, with a knowledge of her then indebtedness, passed the ordinance, sold the bonds, and received into her
treasury the money therefor, can she set up her own fraud to
exempt her from liability to pay it? The doctrine of ultra

Oct. 1880.]

BUCHANAN v. LITCHFIELD.

wres has no application to such a case, and she, to the same
extent as an -individual, is liable for the acts of her servants,
who, in their appropriate sphere of duty, are engaged in the
transaction of her business.
No assessment of the taxable property of.the city of Litchfield was made or authorized to be made in the year 1873, and
the value of that property was, therefore, not "ascertained," as
provided for in the constitutional provision.
This being so, the remaining evidence shows that the valuation of the towns of North and South Litchfield was ascertained
by their assessors, that other officers ascertained the value of
the railroad property, and still others that of the school property in a part of the county in which Litchfield is situated,
and that, by compiling these different returns, the assessable
valuation of the property in the city of Litchfield may be determined.
It is not in evidence that it was the duty of any city officer
to so compile these various returns, or that any authorized person ever did so, but the court is now asked to do it, and so far
constitute itself a city functionary as to make from these returns an estimate of the taxable value of the then property in
the city
The fact indispensable to make out the defendant's case on
this point is the ascertained taxable value of this property in
1873. The evidence Ehows that it never was ascertained.
Mr A. L. Knapp, contra.
MR. JUSTICE 'HARLAN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The first and most important of the certified questions
involves the construction of the twelfth section of the ninth
article of the Constitution of Illinois.
The words employed are too explicit to leave any doubt as
to the object of the constitutional restriction upon municipal
indebtedness. The purpose of its framers, beyond all question,
was to withhold from the Legislative Department the power
to confer upon municipal corporations authority to incur indebtedness in excess 'of a prescribed amount.. The authority,
therefore, conferred by the act of April 15, 1873, to incur

BUCHANAN v. LITCHFIELD.

[Sup. Or.

indebtedness in the construction and maintenance of a system
of water-works, could have been lawfully exercised by a city,
incorporated town, or village, only when its liabilities, increased
by any proposed new indebtedness, would be within the constitutional limit. No legislation could confer upon a municipal
corporation authority to contract indebtedness which the Constitution expressly declared it should not be allowed to incur.
Law et al. v The People ex rel., 87 111. 385, Fuller v City of
GUcago, 89 id. 282.
It was proved that the debt of the city of Litchfield on and
before the 1st of January, 1874, exclusive of the water bonds,
was $70,000.
If, therefore, it appears, by evidence, of which the city may
rightfully avail itself, as against a bona fide holder for value of
the coupons in suit, that the bonds, issued Jan. 1, 1874, created
an indebtedness in excess of the amount to which municipal
indebtedness is restricted by the Constitution, there would seem
to be no escape from the conclusion that the bonds are void for
the want of legal authority to issue them at the time they were
issued.
To the evidence upon which the city relied as showing such
want of authority, objections were interposed by the plaintiff,
who insisted that it was not admissible against him, as a bona
fide holder of the coupons in suit.
That evidence was made the basis of important findings of
fact. Introduced for the purpose of showing the value of
taxable property within the limits of the city, and the extent of her indebtedness, when these water bonds were issued,
it is not, in our opinion, liable to any serious objection. It
seemed to be the best proof upon those subjects that the law
furnished.
In determining whether the constitutional limit of indebtedness has been exceeded by a municipal corporation, an inquiry
would always be necessary as to the amount of taxable property within its boundaries. Such inquiry would be solved, not
by information derived from individual officers of the municipality, but only in the mode prescribed in the Constitution,
that is, by reference to the last assessment for State and
county taxes for the year preceding the issuing of the bonds.

Oct. 1880.]

UCHANAN V. LITCHFIELD.

That test was applied in this case. Had there been, under or
by competent legal authority, an assessment for that year of
taxable property within the city; separately from all other
property in the county or township to which the city belonged,
such assessment would undoubtedly have been controlling.
But there was no such official assessment, in fact, or required
by law There were, 'however, official assessments for State
and courty taxes for 1873, embracing all taxable property
within the county and townships of which the city formed a
part, and from which, in connection with the map of the city,
could be readily ascertained the location and taxable value of
all property within the corporate limits of the city for that
year. The purchaser of the bonds was certainly bound to take
notice not only of the constitutional limitation upon municipal
indebtedness, but of such facts as the authorized official assessments disclosed concerning the valuation of taxable property
.within the city for the year 1873.
But in what way was the purchaser to ascertain the extent
of the city's indebtedness existing at the time the bonds in
question were issued 9 The extent of that indebtedness was a
fact peculiarly within the knowledge of the constituted authorities of the city It was necessarily left, both by the Constitution and the statute of 1873, to their examination and
-determination, under the constitutional injunction, however,
that no municipal corporation should exceed the prescribed
amount of indebtedness. It was, nevertheless, a fact which,
so far as we are advised by the record, could not at all tines
and absolutely, or with reasonable certainty, be ascertained
from any official documents to which the public had access.
A like difficulty, perhaps, would arise in the case of any municipal corporation, possessing the general power of raising
money, by taxation and otherwise, to carry on local government. Its liabilities might frequently vary in their aggregate
amount, and at particular periods might be of different kinds,
some fixed and absolute, while others would be contingent
These considerations
upon events thereafter to happen.
were, doubtless, present in the minds as well of those who
framed the Constitution as of those who. passed the statute of
1873.
VOL Xii.

19

BUCHANAN

v. LITCHFIELD.

[Sup. Ct.

As, therefore, neither the Constitution nor the statute prescribed ,any rule or test by which persons contracting with
mumcipal corporations should ascertain the extent of their
"existing indebtedness," it would seem that if the bonds in
question had contained recitals which, upon any fair construction, amounted to a representation upon the part of the constituted authorities of the city that the requirements of the
Constitution were met,- that is, that the city's indebtedness,
increased by the amount of the bonds in question, was within
the constitutional limit,- then the city, under the decisions of
this court, might have been estopped from disputing the truth
of such representations as against a bona fide holder of its
bonds. The case might then, perhaps, have been brought
within the rule announced by this court in Town of Coloma v
_Eaves (92 U S. 484), in which case we said, and now repeat,
that "where legislative authority has been given to a municipality, or to its officers, to subscribe for the stock of a railroad
company, and to issue municipal bonds in payment, but only
on some precedent condition, such as a popular vote favoring
the subscription, and where it may be gathered from the legislative enactment that the officers of the municipality were invested with power to decide whether the condition precedent
has been complied with, their recital that it has been, made on
the bonds issued by them and held by a bona fide purchaser,
is conclusive of the fact, and binding upon the municipality, for the recital is itself a decision of the fact by the appointed tribunal." So, in the more recent case of Orleans
v Pratt (99 id. 676), it was said that "where the bonds on
their face recite the circumstances which bring them withIn the
power, the corporation is estopped to deny the truth of the
recital."
The cases cited by counsel for the plaintiff do not assert any
different doctrines, as will be seen from an examination of
those chiefly relied upon. In Commisswners of Knox County
v Aspinwall (21 How 539), which was a case of municipal
subscription of stock in a railroad company,. the statute upon
which the subscription there purported to rest made the existence of certain facts essential to the exercise of authority to
make the subscription and issue bonds therefor. The bonds,

Oct. 1880.]

BUCHANAN

V. LITCHFIELD.

upon their face, however, recited that they were issued n
pursuance of the statute, which .prescribed the conditions precedent to any subscription, and, therefore, the court said, they
imported a compliance with the law under which they were
issued. It was, consequently, ruled that the purchaser was
not bound to look further for evidence of a compliance with
the condition annexed to the grant of the power.
In Kencott v Supervisors (16 Wall. 452), the rule was
thus stated "If an election or other fact is required to authorize the issue of the bonds of a municipal corporation, and if
the result of that election, or the existence of that fact, is by
law to be ascertained and declared by any judge, officer, or tribunal, and that judge, officer, or tribunal, on behalf of the
corporation, executes or issues the bonds, with a recital that the
election has been held or that the fact exists or has tacen place,
this will be'sufficient evidence of the fact to all bona fide holders of the bonds."
In County of Moultrie v Savings Ban7 (92 U. S. 631), the
validity of the bonds there in suit was questioned, upon the
ground that certain precedent conditions imposed by statute
had not been complied with. The bonds, however, recited
their issue to be "Im conformity to the provisions" of the stat,
ute which gave the authority to issue them. So, in Marcy v
Townshi of Oswego (id. 637), where the statute authorizing
a municipal subscription, with the sanction of tree-fifths of
the voters interested, and the issue of bonds in payment
thereof, required particular facts to exist and certain acts to be
performed before the right to make the subscription and to
issue bonds in discharge thereof could be exercised. The
statute contained, amongst other things, a proviso to the effect
that the amount of bonds sold by the township should not exceed such a sum as would require a levy of more than one per
cent per annum on the taxable property of the township to
pay the yearly interest. It appeared that the statute had not,
in some of these respects, been complied with, that is, that the
conditions had not been performed which the statute required
before any subscription should be made or bonds issued. But,
adhering to the rule announced in Town of Coloma v -Raves,
the defence was overruled in favor of a bona fide holder for

292

BUCHANAN v. LITCHFIELD.

[Sup. Ct.

value, because of the recital in the bonds that their issue was
"by virtue of, and zn accordance with," the statute, and "in
pursuance of, and in accordancewith, the vote of three-fifths of
the legal voters of the township."
Returning to the case in hand, it will be observed that the
bonds issued by the city of Litchfield contain no recital whatever of the circumstances which, under the Constitution of the
State, must have existed before the city could legally incur
the indebtedness for which the bonds were issued. They purport, it is true, to be issued under the authority of the act of
April 15, 1873, and in pursuance of the ordinance of the city
based upon that statute. But that statute does not expressly
restrict the exercise of the power to erect and maintain a system of water-works to cases in which the aggregate indebtedness of the city was within the limit which the Constitution
declared no municipal corporation should exceed. Nor does
the city ordinance recite or state, even in general terms, that
the proposed indebtedness was incurrdd in pursuance of or
in accordance with the Constitution of the State, or under
the circumstances which permitted the issue of the bonds.
Consequently, a recital that the bonds were issued under the
authority of the statute, and in pursuance of the city ordinance, did not necessarily import a compliance with the Constitution. Had the bonds made the additional recital that
they were issued in accordance with the Constitution, or had
the ordinance stated, in any form, that the proposed indebtedness was within the constitutional limit, or had the statute
restricted the exercise of the authority thereit conferred to
those municipal corporations whose indebtedness did not, at
the time, exceed the constitutional limit, there would have
been ground for holding that the city could not, as against
the plaintiff, dispute the fair inference to be drawn, from such
recital or statement, as to the extent of its existing indebtedness.
Any different conclusion from that indicated would extend
the doctrines of this court upon the subject of municipal bonds
farther than would be consistent with reason and sound policy,
and farther than we are now willing to go. The present
action cannot be maintained, unless we should hold that the

Oct. 1880.]

BUCHANAN

v. LITCHFIELD.

mere fact that the bonds were issued, without any recitals of
the circumstances bringing them within the limit fixed by the
Constitution, was, in itself, conclusive proof, in favor of a bona
fide holder, that the circumstances existed which authorized
them to be issued. We cannot so holu.
Our attention is called by counsel to the exceeding hardship
of this case upon those whose money, it is alleged, has supplied
the city of Litchfield with a system of water-works, the benefits of which are daily enjoyed by its inhabitants. The defence
is characterized as fraudulent and dishonest. Waiving all considerations of the case, in its moral aspects, it is only necessary
to say that the settled principles of law cannot, with safety to
the public, be disregarded in order to remedy the hardships
of special cases.
Whether the city is under a legal obligation to make restitution of the money, obtained without authority of law, that
is, to refund to the proper party or parties such sums as
were actually received by its authorized agents or officers
upon the sale of the bonds, is not a question arising iu the
present action, which is only for the recovery of the stipulated interest upon such bonds. Upon this point it is not
proper at this time, or m this form of action, to express an
opinion.
What we have said constitutes a sufficient answer to all of
the questions certified to us, and requires an affirmance of the
judgment.
Judgment affirmed.

