Oct. 1880.]

TIERNAN V. RINKER.

TiERNAN v. R INK.
1. An act of the legislature of Texas, entitled "An Act regulating taxation,"
approved June 3, 1873, provides in its third section that "there shall be
levied on and collected from every firm or association of persons
pursuing the occupation of selling spirituous, vinous, malt, and other intoxicating liquors in quantities less than one quart, $200 in quantities of a
quart and less than ten gallons, $100; provided that tins section shall not
be so construed as to include any wines or beer manufactured in this
State." A., who was pursuing, in that State, "the occupation of selling
spirituous, vinous, malt, and other intoxicating liquors in quantities less
than one quart," filed his petition, setting forth that the wines and beer
which he was selling were the manufacture, not of that State, but of other
States and of foreign nations, and praying that the county 'treasurer be
enjoined from collecting the tax imposed by said act of 1873, on the ground
of its repugnance to the Constitution of the United States. Held, that, as
lie was also engaged in selling other liquors, the injunction was properly
refused.
2. That act is inoperative only so far as it discriminates against imported
wines or beer. A person cannot, for selling either .of them, be subjected
to a higher tax than that imposed for selling wines or beer manufactured
in the State.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Texas.
A statute of Texas, entitled "An Act regulating taxation,"
approved June 3, 1873, enacts as follows ERROR

"SE CT. 3. That there shall be levied on and collected from
every person, firm, or association of persops, pursuing -any of the
following named occupations an annual tax (except when herein
otherwise provided), on every such occupation or separate establishment, as follows For selling spirituous, vinous, malt, and other
intoxicating liquors, in quantities less than one quart, $200, in
quantities of a quart and less than ten gallons, $100 Proded that
this section shall not be so construed as to include any wines or
beer manufactured in this State, or when sold by druggists for
medicinal purposes And prowded further, that this section shall
not be -so construed as to authorize druggists to sell spirituous or
intoxicating liquors, except alcohol. For selling in quantities of
ten'gallons and over, $100.
"SE cT. 4. That the county courts of the several counties of
this State shall have the power of levying taxes equal to the onehalf of the amount of the State tax herein levied, except as hereinbefore provided Andprovded further, that any one wishing to
pursue any of the vocations named in this act for a less period than

TIERNAN V. RINKER.

[Sup. Ct.

one year may do so by paying a pro rata amount of such occupation for the period he may desire Providedfurther,that no occupation license shall issue for a less period than three months: And
promded further, that the receipt of the proper officer shall be
prima facze evidence of the payment of such tax."
In pursuance of -the authority conferred by this statute, the
county court of Galveston County, in March, 1876, levied a
tax upon certain parties engaged in the occupations mentioned
m the third section, equal to one-half the tax levied by the
State.
Barney Tiernan and a number of others, who were the petitioners in the court below, are engaged in the county of Galveston in the occupation of "selling spirituous, vinous, malt,
and other intoxicating li'quors," some of them in quantities
less than one quart, and others in quantities of one quart and
less than ten gallons, and the wines and beers which they sell
are not of the manufacture of the State. By the present suit
against Rinker, the treasurer of that county, they seek to enjoin the enforcement of the tax against them, on the alleged
ground that the statute is invalid in that it discriminates in
favor of wines and beer manufactured in the State against
those which are manufactured elsewhere. The District Court
of the State sustained a demurrer to their petition and dismissed the case. The Supreme Court of the State affirmed
the decision. The petitioners thereupon sued out this writ of
error.
Hr A. H. Willie for the plaintiffs in error.
The statute subjects to a tax persons engaged in the pursuit
of a given occupation, which is defined to be the selling of
spirituous, vinous, malt, and other intoxicating liquors.
The first proviso embraces the plaintiffs in error, as their
occupation is that of selling vinous and malt liquors which
are not manufactured in Texas, and of spirituous and other
intoxicating liquors. It discriminates in favor of wines or
beer manufactured in Texas, and against those liquors if they
are the product of other States or of foreign nations. The
statute is, therefore, a regulation of commerce and is repugnant to the Constitution. Welton v State of Alissouri, 91
U. S.275.

Oct. 1880.]

TIERNAN V. RINKER.

The proviso is an essential part of the statute. Its office is
to restrain the enacting clause and to except something which
would otherwise have been within it, or, in some measure, to
modify it. Wayman v Southard, 10 Wheat. 1. The court
can no more limit the legal effect of terms, because they are
in a proviso, than it can qualify the terms of a private agreement, because they are in one part of the instrument instead
of another. Dugan v Brdge Company, 27 Pa. St. 310.
To strike out the proviso as unconstitutional, and yet sustain
the statute as imposing the tax upon the sale of spirituous,
vinous, malt, and other intoxicating liquors indifferently, would
defeat its obvious intention, which is to encourage the manufacture of Texas wines and beer. Where a' statute is clearly
made up of parts, sections, or provisions, one part will not be
held good and another bad, unless the respective parts are
independent of each other. State v Commsszoners of Perry
County, 5 Ohio St. 507, Potter's Dwarris, 249. The constitutional parts can stand only when, after rejecting the others,
the object and effect of the law are not destroyed. State v
_Estabrook, 3 Nev 180. The whole must fall, if, after rejecting
the unconstitutional parts, the remainder is incapable of being
executed in accordance with the legislative intent. Cooley,
Const. Lim. 178, Washington v The State, 13 Ark. 763.
Where the different provisions foxm inseparable parts of the
same system, the whole is invalidated by the unconstitutionality
of a part. People v. Detroit, 29 Mich. 108, Sedgwick, Stat.
Law, 414, and cases cited.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The petitioners rely upon the ruling of this court in the case
of Welton v State oflfissourt to sustain their position. There the
State had exacted the payment of a license tax from travelling
pedlers who dealt in the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise
which were not the growth, product, or manufacture of the
State, and required no such license, tax from similar traders.
selling goods which were the growth, product, or manufacture
of the State. And this court held, following in that respect the

TIERNAN V. RINKER.

[Sup. Ct.

ruling in Brown v Maryland, that the tax exacted from dealers

in goods before they could be s6ld was in effect a tax upon the
goods themselves, and that the legislation which thus discrimmated against'the products of other States in the conditions
upon which they could be sold by a certain class of dealers was
in conflict with the commercial clause of the Constitution.
In deciding the case, the court observed that the power conferred by this clause to regulate commerce with foreign nations
and among the several States is without limitation, and that to
regulate commerce is to prescribe the conditions upon which it
shall be conducted, to determine how far it shall be free from
restrictions, how far it shall be subjected to duties and imposts,
and how far it shall be prohibited, that when the subject to
which the power applies is national in its character, or of such
a nature as to admit of uniformity of regulation, the power is
exclusive of State authority, that the portion of commerce with
foreign countries or between the States, which consists in the
transportation and exchange of commodities, is of national importance and admits and requires uniformity of regulation,
that the object of vesting this power in the general government
was to insure this uniformity against discriminating State
legislation, and that to that end this power must cover the
property which is the subject of trade from hostile or interfering legislation until it has become a part of the general property of the country and subject to similar protection and to no
greater burdens. If, before that time, the property can become subject to any restrictions by State legislation, the object
of vesting the control in Congress may be defeated. If the
State can exact a license tax from one class of traders for the
sale of goods which are the growth, product, or manufacture of
other States, it can exact the license from all traders in such
goods, and the amount of the tax will rest in its discretion.
" Imposts," the court said, " operating as an absolute exclusion of the goods, would be possible, and all the evils of discriminating State legislation favorable to the interests of one
State and injurious to the interests of other States and countries, which existed previous to the adoption of the Constitution, might follow, and the experience of the last fifteen years
shows would follow, from the action of some of the States."

Oct. 1880.]

TIERNAN V. RINKER.

The court, therefore, held that the commercial power of the
Federal government over a commodity continued until the
commodity had ceased to be the subject of discriminating legislation in any State by reason of its foreign character, and that
this power protects it after it has entered the State from any
burdens imposed by reason' of its foreign origin. The court
also held that the inaction of Congress to prescribe any specific
rules to govern inter-state commerce, when considered with
reference to its legislation with respect to foreign commerce,
is equivalent to a declaration that inter-state commerce shall
be free and untrammelled, and that this policy would be defeated by discriminating legislation like that of Missouri.
The doctrine of this case- has never been questioned, it has
been uniformly recognized and approved, and expresses now
the settled judgment of the court.
According to it, the statute of Texas is inoperative, so far as
it makes a discrimination against wines and beer imported
from other States, when sold separately from other liquors. A
tax. cannot be exacted for the sale of beer and wines when a
foreign manufacture, if not exacted from their sale when of
home manufacture. If a party be engaged exclusively in the
sale of these liquors, or in any business for which a tax is
levied because it embraces a sale of them, he may justly object
to the discriminating character of the act, and on that account
challenge its validity, under the decision in question, but if
engaged in the sale of other liquors than beer or wines, he cannot complain of the State tax on that ground. The statute
makes no discrimination in favor of other liquors of home
manufacture. Whilst it groups the sale of several kinds of
liquors as one occupation, it evidently intends that the occupation which consists in the sale of any one of the several liquors
named, in the quantities mentioned, shall be subject to taxation, as though it read, "for selling spirituous, or vinous, or
malt, or other intoxicating liquors." It does not require to
justify the tax that a party shall be engaged in the sale of all
the liquors mentioned, as well as other liquors. This being
the true construction of the act, there can be no objection
to its enforcement where the tax is levied for occupations for
.the sale of other liquors than wines and beers. In the present

BALL V. LANGLES.

[Sup. Gt.

case the petitioners describe themselves as engaged in the occupation of selling spirituous, vinous, malt, and other intoxicating
liquors, that is. in all the liquors mentioned and others not
mentioned. There is no reason why they should be exempted
from the tax when selling brandies and whiskies and other
alcoholic drinks, in the quantities mentioned, because they
could not be thus taxed if their occupation was limited to the
sale of wines and beer.
We see, therefore, no error in the ruling of the Supreme
Court of Texas, and its judgment is accordingly
Affirmed.

BALL v. LANGLES.
1. Reissued letters-patent No. 4026, granted June 14, 1870, to Hosea Ball for a
new and useful improvement in ovens, are void, inasmuch as they contain
new matter, and are for an invention different from that exhibited in the
original specification and drawings.
2. The ruling in Seyniour v. Osborie (11 Wall. 516) and Russell v. Dodge (93 U.'S.
460), touching the authority of the Commissioner of Patents in granting a
reissue of letters-patent, reaffirmed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
MTr Thomas J.-Durant and M~r Charles W Hornor for the
appellants.
Hr Conway Robnson and Mr Lezgh Bo5bnson, contra.
R'J. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity filed by Hosea Ball and Margaret
Haughery, against Justin Langles and N A. Baumgarden,
composing the firm of Baumgarden & Langles. It charges
an infringement by the defendants of reissued letters-patent
granted to Ball, June 14, 1870, for an alleged new and useful improvement in ovens. The original patent was granted
to him on the 23d of September, 1856, for a period of fourteen years from that date. On the 12th of October, 1869, this

