MANUFACTURING Co. v. LADD.

[Sup. Ct.

would be unjust to make him pay the costs of the proceeding out of his own
pocket.
But a careful examination of the authorities leaves us no option but to follow
the rule that the prevailing party shall recover of the unsuccessful one the legal
costs which lie has expended in obtaining his rights.
In Kendall v. U'nited States (12 Pet. 524), the leading case establishing the
right of a citizen to the use of the writ of niandanius to compel a public officer to
perform a duty merely ministerial, tile relator recovered his costs. The duty in
that, as in the present case, was one enjoined upon a cabinet officer, which lie
refused to perform. It is obvious that lie thought lie was right in refusing to
do the act demanded of him, yet this court, as shown by the report of the case,
rendered judgment for costs against him.
In United States y. Boutwell (17 Wall. 604), which was the case of a writ of
niendanius against the defendant as Secretary of the Treasury, and which the
court held to be abated by his retirement from office, it was said. "It is the
personal default of the defendant that warrants the impetration of the writ, and
if a peremptory writ of mandaius be awarded, the costs inust fall upon 'the
defendant." And it is argued that as it would be unjust to make the successor
in office of the delinquent secretary pay the cost of defending the Qction of his
predecessor, the writ must of necessity abate.
We cannot, in the face of these cases, refuse the otder for costs, however
much we might wish it were otherwise. There may be a contingent or other
fund of the department out of which they can be paid. If there is none, Congress may provide for it or enact generally that when the officers of the government are sued with reference to the manner in which they have performed or
failed to perform their official duties, they as in revenue seizures and similar
cases, shall be relieved from the expense of the suit if they have acted with good
motives and upon reasonable grounds.
The relator must have judgment for his costs.

MANUFACTURING

COM3PANY v. LADD.

1. Where a bill was filed charging an infringement of reissued letters-patent
No. 5154, dated Nov. 19, 1872, which was denied by the answer, the court,
in view of the state of the art at the date of the invention for which the
original letters were granted to Asa M. Swain, May 11, 1860, for improvements in water-wheels, construed the claims of the reissued letters in ac
cordance with the distinct limitation of that invention in the original letters
to a wheel of specific construction and form with its associated apparatus,
and finding that there-was no infringement of the claims thus construed
dismissed the bill. Held, that such a construction gave the complainant no
just ground of exception.
2. The evidence examined, and the result of a comparison of the reissued letters,
with the original letters, including the drawings and model submitted with
the application for them, stated.
3. A reissue cai only be granted for the same invention which was originally
patented.

Oct. 1880.]

MANUFACTURING

Co. V. LADD.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ir John $. Abbott and Mr Henry W Boardman for the
appellant.
Mr Charles -. Mitchell for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered: the opinion of the court.

The Swain Turbine and Manufacturing Company filed a
bill against James E. Ladd, alleging that the latter had infrmged certain letters-patent owned by the company, which
had been granted to Asa M. Swain on the.15th of May, 1860,
for a new and improved water-wheel, and which had been surrendered and reissued on the 19th of November,. 1872, numbered 5154. The bill sought an account of profits, damages
for the infringement, and a perpetual injunction against further use of the alleged invention. The defendant filed an
answer denying infringement, and assailing the patent of the
complainant on various grounds, such as prior discovery and
invention by other persons, illegality of the new issue, &c.
Proofs having been taken and the cause heard, the Circuit Court
dismissed the bill, on the ground that, according to the true
construction of the patent sued on, the defendant did not infringe. The company thereupon appealed.
It was conceded that if the reissued patent should be construed literally, without restraining the generality of its claims
by a reference to the original patent, the wheels made by the
defendant would be an infringement, but the court, in view of
the state of the art at the date of Swain's invention, and of
the distinct limitation of. that invention in the original patent
to a wheel of specific construction and form, considered- itself
bound to construe the claims of the reissued patent in accordance with such limitation, in order to avoid the conclusion
that it was for another and different invention from that originally patented. From a careful examination of the evidence
in the case we are satisfied -that this was the most favorable view that could have been taken for the complainant. A
comparison of the original letters-patent, including the drawings and" model, with the reissued patent, makes it very evi-

MANUFACTURING

Co. v. LADD.

[Sup. Ct.

dent that the latt'er is the result of an effort to enlarge the
scope of the patent so as to include and embrace within it matters and things that were not embraced in the original invention. The original specification, drawings, and model all agree
in describing a specific wheel and associated apparatus as the
subject of the invention secured by the letters-patent. They
distinctly describe a wheel with its floats, each made of a single
piece of metal, having their face sides, where the water strikes,
of a paraboloidal form- with their bottoms formed by revolving
the curves on 'their axes, and arranged in a particular direction
to receive the water from the guides, and having the rim of
the wheel covering the floats so curved as to force the water
down rapidly ii the lower curved parts or bottoms of the floats,
the water being turned down between the curb and wheel and
lower curb they describe an annular chamber situated above
and outside of the wheel, with slots in its bottom to receive
and steady the guides when raised with the gate, and which is
filled with water, forming a sort of stuffing-box they describe
a cylindrical gate, below the annular chamber surrounding the
curb below the wheel, provided at the top with a flange to
which the guides are attached, and which is opened by being
lowered to let the water into the wheel through the guides, and
is shut by being raised up to the bottom of the annular chamber lastly, they describe a particular contrivance for adjusting
the wheel on its step. which is of no consequence in the disposal of the present case. Substantially, this is the entire description the wheel, formed and made as stated, the annular
chamber, the cylindrical gate, with the guides attached to its
flange, and the contrivance for adjusting the wheel on the step.
There is also a description of the enclosing case and curbs, and
the machinery for raising and lowering the gate and the wheel,
but these parts have nothing to do with the controversy.
The claim of the patent was threefold first, for the annular
chamber, with slots in the bottom to receive the guides, secondly, the combined arrangement of the guides, the cylindrical
gate, and the annular chamber, as unitedly related to the
wheel, thirdly, the step arrangement. Here wo have a clear
and distinct specification of an invention, and of the particular machinery which is its subject-matter. The wheel is not

Oct. 1880.]

MANUFACTURING

Co. v. LADD.

claimed, either as to its form or fashion, or mode of operation,
nothing is claimed but the annular chamber, the peculiar gate
and guide arrangement, and the step adjustment, -none of
which things are in controversy in this suit.
But a change comes over the scene the patent becomes the
property of a corporation that manufactures wheels, a monopoly of the business is very desirable, other manufacturers
make turbine wheels approaching somewhat in appearance to
that described in Swain's patent. The usual remedy in such
cases is resorted to. A reissue of the patent is sought, with
expanded claims, sufficiently general and comprehensive to
embrace a wide monopoly of.structure, and to shut up competing establishments. In this way the patent laws have been
made the instruments of great injustice and oppression. The
real object and design of a reissue of a patent have been
abused and subverted. The intent of the law was to allow a
correction to be made "whenever a patent is inoperative, or
invalid, by reason of a defective or insufficient description or
specification, or by reason of the patentee's claiming in his
specification as his own invention more than he has a right to
claim as new, and when the error has arisen by inadvertency,
accident, or mistake, and without any fraudulent or deceptive
intention." These are the words of the law granting the right.
It was never intended to allow a p atent to be enlarged, but to
allow the correction of mistakes inadvertently committed, and
the restriction of claims which had been improperly made, or
which had been made too broad, -just the contrary of that
which has come to be the practice. In a clear case of mistake-not error in judgment-the patent may undoubtedly
be enlarged, but that should be the exception, not the rule,
whereas the enlargement of claims has become the rule, and,
their contraction the exception.
These remarks are well illustrated in the case before us.
We have shown what was the original invention described and
claimed. After the lapse of twelve years and a half the
patentee (or rather his corporation assignee) discovers that
through inadvertence and mistake his specification is wrong,
and needs correction, and a reissue is obtained, with eleven
different claims. These claims are quite different from those

MANUFACTURING

Co. v. LADD.

[Sup. Ct.

of the original patent, and are intended to give to the present
proprietors a large and valuable monopoly Here are some of
the claims -

1. A water-wheel, the floats of which have a discharge-line
extending from the crown at their inner edge to the lower
outer edge of the wheel.
2. The combination in a water-wheel of a crown, band, and
floats, having their discharge-line extending from the crown at
their inner edge to their lower outer edge.
3. The combination in a water-wheel of a crown and floats,
having their discharge-line extending fron the crown at their
inner edge to the lower outer edge.
5. A water-wheel having an effective inward flow and discharge of part of the water, and an effective downward. flow
and discharge of part of the water simultaneously in one wheel,
whereby the effective area of discharge is increased without
increasing the diameter of the wheel.
Here is a sweeping generalization, which, taken literally,
would give to the patentee a monopoly of all water-wheels
having simultaneously an effective inward and downward flow
and discharge, whatever might be the shape of the floats, or of
the crown. This was certainly not the invention described or
suggested in the original patent. The invention of a wheel was
not claimed at all a wheel was described, but it was a wheel
made after a particular pattern or form, and adjusted to a particular apparatus for the reception and discharge of the water.
Its buckets were described as paraboloidal, its rim over the
buckets curved downward and inward so as to force the water
down rapidly in the lower curved parts or bottoms of the
floats. No intimation is given that a wheel of a different form
would answer the purposes of the invention. The defendant
does not copy'elther of these features in his wheels. Their
floats are not paraboloidal, but waving, the rim is not curved
downward and inward, but is horizontal. It is very apparent
why the claim has been generalized as it has been. The patentee desires to secure the monopoly of every centre-vent wheel,
of whatever shape or form, which discharges the water both
inwardly in the centre of the wheel and downwardly from the
bottoms of the floats beneath the wheel. But that would be a

Oct. 1880.]

MANUFACTURING

Co. v. LADD.

new invention, very different from what was described .and
claimed in the original patent. To warrant this extension of
the claim, the specification of the reissued patent contains
material variations from that of the original, frequently stating
that a particular part may be constructed thus and so, when
the original requtred it to be thus and so, it speaks of '1 the
upper horizontal edge of the floats," when no such thing is
mentioned in the original, but on the contrary the rim ,over
the floats was described as curving inward and downward, and
as being so curved for a special purpose and effect. Instead
of correcting inadvertent mistakes in'the specification, which
rendered the patent inoperative and void, the pretended corrections are evidently intended to widen the scope of the
patent, and to make it embrace more than it did at first. So
far as description went, the original specification was as perfect
as the new one.
The mistake of the patentee (or his assigns) seems to have
been in supposing that he was entitled to have inserted in a
reissued patent all that he might have applied for and had
inserted in his original patent. The appellant produced on
the argument exhibits tending to show that the patentee
before obtaining his original patent had made and done all
those things which are embraced in or covered by the reissued
patent. If this were true, it would be nothing to the purpose.
A reissue can only be granted for the same invention which
was originally patented. If it were otherwise, a door would
be opened to the admission of the greatest frauds. Claims and
pretensions shown to be unfounded at the time might, after
the lapse of a few years, a change -of officers in the Patent
Office, the death of witnesses, and the dispersion of documents,
be set up anew, and a reversal of the first decision obtained
without an appeal, and without any knowledge of the previous
investigations on the subject. New light breaking in upon the
patentee as the progress of improvement goes on, and as other
inventors enter the field, and his monopoly becomes less and
less necessary to the public, might easily generate in his mind
an idea that his invention was really more broad and comprehensive than had been set forth in the specification of his
patent. It is easy to see how 8uchi new light would naturally

MANUFACTURING

Co. v. LADD.

[Sup. Ct.

be reflected, in a reissue of the patent, and how unjust it
might be to third parties who had kept pace with the march
of improvement. Hence there is no safe or just rule but that
which confines a reissued patent to the same invention which
was described or indicated in the original.
Since, therefore, any extension of the reissued patent beyond the scope of the invention set forth and fairly indicated
in the original specification, drawings, and model, would be
fatal to the patent itself, we think that the appellant ought
to be satisfied with the course taken by the circuit judge in so
construing the patent with reference to those original tests as
to restrain and confine the intent and meaning of the claims
within legitimate and admissible bounds. And so construed,
there is no plausible pretence that the defendant is guilty of
an infringement.
If the appellant insists on the broad construction of the
claims in the new patent, it must take the risk of being met
with previous achievements in the same line of improvement,
which may .very seriously endanger the validity of its patent.
Several structures have been produced on the hearing, antedating the invention of Swain, and it would be very difficult
to maintain that they do not embrace the principal feature in
Swain's wheel, sought to be appropriated by him.
If the evidence with regard to Stowe's wheels, constructed
in 1837, 1841, and 1850, is to be relied on, it is not a sufficient
answer to say that they were merely spout-wheels, and were
never used under water as turbines. They are substantially
the same wheel as-Swain's, and whether used as turbines, or
only under the operation of a spout, they anticipate his structure. The mere change of use by placing them in a different
position with regard to the water is not patentable.
The Temple wheel, the Whitney wheel, and the Greenleaf
wheel all conduct the water in the same lines that Swain s
does from its entrance into the wheel to its final departure
from it, and if, on an investigation of dates, we should find
that either of these wheels antedated Swain's invention, we
should probably be forced to the conclusion that they each
contained the fundamental element of a simultaneous inward
and downward flow and discharge of water through the wheel,

Oct. 1880.]

DANIELS

v.

TEARNEY.

which the appellant claims as the principle of Swain s invention.
We do not deem it necessary to go into a more particular
examination of the evidence at this time. We have examined
it carefully, and have come to the conclusion that the view
taken of the case by the Circuit Court was as favorable to the
appellant as it c6uld reasonably ask.
Decree affirmed.

DAqIELS

v. TEARNEY.

1. The convention of the State of Virginia passed, April 13, 1861, an ordinance
entitled "An Ordinance to provide against the sacrifice of property and to
suspend proceedings in certain cases," whereby, if a debtor, against whom
there was an execution in the hands of an officer, offered bond and security
for the payment of debt, interest, and costs, when the operation of the ordinance should cease, his property should be restored to him. If he offered
no bond, the property was to be restored to him without lien, unless it would
bring its appraised value as of the date of Nov. 6, 1860. No executions
were, after the date of the ordinance, to be issued against residents except in
favor of the State. The convention passed, April 18, 1861, an ordinance of
secession. A., against whom an execution was issued March 21 of that
year, availed himself of the provisions of the ordinance of April 13, by
giving the requisite bond and security. The judgment against him remaining unpaid and the ordinance having ceased to operate, suit was brought
on the bond. Held, that the obligors are estopped from setting up that, by
reason of anything contained in the ordinance, the bond is invalid.
2. Home Insurance Co. ,. City Council qf Augusta (93 U. S. 116) and'UnitedStates v.
Hodson (10 Wall. 395) cited and approved.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Jefferson County, State of
West Virginia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr Dantel B. Lucas for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr Oharles J. Faulkner, contra.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error, brought to reverse a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of West Virginia.
The case, as disclosed in the record, may be sufficiently
stated for the purposes of this opinion, as follows -

