Oct. 1880.]

BARRETT V. HOLMES.

BARRETT V. HOLMES.
1. The right of entry of a party who claims under the treasurer's deed lands
in Iowa sold for the non-payment of taxes is barred, if, within five years
after the deed has been executed and recorded, he neither sues for nor
takes possession of the lands.
2. A statutory provision to that effect is not in conflict with the Constitution of
the United States.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Iowa.

This was an action for the recovery of real property, brought
by the plaintiff in error Aug. 28, 1874, in the Circuit Court
of Mills County, in the State of Iowa. He relied on a tax title
based on the deed of the county treasurer to one Meads, dated
Jan. 6, 1868, and recorded on the 28th of the same month ;-a
deed from Meads to one Callanan, dated Feb. 1,and recorded
March 12, 1873, and a deed from Callanan to himself, dated
July 25, and recorded Aug. 3, 1874.
The defendant claimed under a bond for a deed, given by
those who held the patent to the land. The bond was dated
Feb. 12, 1872.
The law of Iowa prescribes how the deed of the treasurer or
tax-collector for lands sold for taxes shall be executed, and its
effect, as f6llows "The deed shall be signed by the treasurer in his official capacity,
and acknowledged by him before some officer authorized to take
acknowledgments of deeds, and when substantially thus executed
and recorded in the proper record of titles for real estate, shall vest

in the purchaser all the right, title, interest, and estate of the former
owner in andto the land conveyed, and all the right, title, interest,
and claim of the State and county thereto, and shall be presumptive
evidence in all the courts of this State, in all controversies and suits
in relation to the rights of the purchaser, his heirs and assigns, to
the land thereby conveyed, of the following facts that the real
property -conveyed was subject to taxation for the years stated in
the deed, &c., and shall be conclusive evidence of the following
facts that all things whatever required by law to make a good
and valid sale, and to vest the title in the purchaser, were done,"
&c. Iowa Rev 784, Code, 807.

BARRETT v. HOLMES.

[Sup. Ct.

The following statute of limitation was in force in Iowa
when the tax deed under which the plaintiff in error claimed
bore date, and when the suit was brought "No action for the recovery of real property sold for the nonpayment of taxes shall lie, unless the same be brought within five
years after the treasurer's deed is executed and recorded as above
provided (Rev 784, Code, 807) Proded,that where the owner
of such real estate sold as aforesaid shall, at the time of such sale,
be a minor, or insane, or convict in the penitentiary, five years after
such disability shall be removed shall be allowed such person, his
heirs or legal representatives, to bring such action." Iowa Rev
700, Code, 902.
The defence was the limitation of five years prescribed by
the statute above quoted.
Upon the trial of the cause in the State Circuit Court, the
jury returned special findings, from which it appeared that
Love, the ancestor, who was the only defendant when the suit
was brought, and who had died after its commencement, took
possession of the land in controversy in March, 1872, and continued in possession until the trial, in November, 1875, and
that the parties who during that period held the tax title to
the land had no knowledge of such possession until June, 1874.
The land was unoccupied and unimproved until the possession
taken by Love.
There was a general verdict for the defendant, upon which
judgment was entered.
The plaintiff appealed to the Supreme Court of the State,
where he claimed that upon the conceded facts of the case, as
above recited, and the findings of the jury, the five years' Statute of Limitations above quoted did not begin to run until
there was an adverse possession of the land by the former
owner or one claiming under him, and that if not thus construed the statute was in conflict with the Constitution of the
United States.
The Supreme Court of Iowa found that the constitutional
question was involved, but upheld the statute, and affirmed the
judgment of the State Circuit Court. This writ of error is
prosecuted to reverse that judgment.

Oct. 1880.]

BARRETT V. HOLMES.

Jllr George G Wrzght for the plaintiff in error.
The ruling of the court below, that the Statute of Limitation
of five years began to run from the time the treasurer's deed
was executed and recorded, irrespective of the question of
adverse possession, and that the entry of the former owner at
any time before that period has expired, bars the right of the
purchaser at the tax sale, is inconsistent with the language and
obvious meaning of the statute and the later decisions of that
court. Iowa, Rev 790, Code, 902, Peck v Sexton, 41 Iowa,
566, Lockridge v. Daggett, 47 id. 679, !fozngona Coal Co. v
Blair, 51 id. 447
It not only deprives the plaintiff in error of his property
without due process 6f law, but impairs the contract of purchase from the State.
Since it is a universal rule that an action for the recovery of
real property, whether called ".ejectment," or "an action of
right," or what else, cannot be brought unless there is an adverse possession, it is clear that this action could not be brought
until there was a mature right to enforce it in the proper court,
and by the appropriate remedy It follows, therefore, that under
the laws of Iowa there could not be such mature right, nor was
the appropriate remedy afforded, until the plaintiff's right to
possession was denied, either by an actual adverse holding, or
some act equivalent thereto. Blackwell, Tax Titles, 566.
A title -is not barred by the mere failure to bring suit within
the time limited, but there must have been an adverse possession. Neddy v State, 8 Yerg. (Tenn.) 249, Smith v. McCall,
2 Humph. (Tenn.) 168, Rice v Nelson, 27 Iowa, 148, Waln
v Shearman, 8 Serg. & R. (Pa.) 857
A right without a remedy is unknown to the law The
statute cannot begin to run until there is an entry or possession which challenges the right of the owner. In other
words, the entry must unequivocally denote an intent to take
or assume actual possession. Altemas v Campbell, 9 Watts
(Pa.), 28.
There can be no such thing as an acquiescence in an adverse claim which will defeat a recovery, until such claim be
asserted by entry A party relying upon the bar of the statute must show that he has held the premises, not only by a

BARRETT V. -HOLMES.

[Sup. Ct.

possession actual, open, and adverse, but that he has maintained it as a right resulting from an exclusive property in
and dominion over them for the time limited by the statute. 3 Wash. Real Prop. 483, McNamee v Moreland, '26
Iowa, 96, Hollenbeel v Riley, 35 id. 105, Larum v TYilmer,
id. 244.
The tax sale under the statute had the effect of giving to
the purchaser an original title, divesting all former interest in
the land,, and vesting in him an independent and paramount
legal and equitable title in fee. By it a new and perfect title
was established. This results from the authority of the State
to levy taxes on property within her limits, and coerce payment by subjecting it to sale. It is one of the necessary and
inherent rights of the sovereign power. Rev 2207, Code,
1928, Atkins v Hinman, 7 Ill. 449 -Dunlapv Gallatin Oounty,
15 id. 7, Irwtn v Trego, 22 Pa. St. 368, Luffborough v Parker,
16 Serg. & R. (Pa.) 851.
The formal execution and record of the tax deed which is
the source of the title of the plaintiff in error being for land
unoccupied; drew after it the possession, and it was unnecessary for him to bring an action, or do anything to vindicate
Ins title or right to possession until another challenged it
by entering into actual possession, or doing something in law
which is equivalent thereto. -Dean v -Earley, 15 Wis. 100
Parish v. -Eager, id. 532, Whitney v Marshall, 17 id. 174,
Gunrnson v Hoekne, 18 id. 268.
In declaring that " no action for the recovery of real property sold for the non-payment of taxes shall lie unless brought
within five years after the treasurer's deed is executed and recorded," the legislature could not have intended to prevent
an action after the expiration of five years, in cases in which
it was impossible that any measures could be taken in this
form of action for the recovery within that time. The term
"recovery" implies an adverse proceeding through, the medium
of the law, and the action for such recovery is utterly impracticable under the Iowa statute, except where there is an actual
adverse possession. The owner of the tax title being by his
purchase seised of the premises, theretofore and then unoccupied, could not be divested of the possession until entry by the

Oct. 1880.]

BARRETT V. HOLMES.

former owner or some one claiming title. Until then an action
for the recovery did not accrue. Waln v Shearman, supra,
Jackson v Huntley, 5 Johns. (N. Y ) 60, Jackson v Mc-ee,
8 id. 429.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of Iowa has, by several decisions, construed the five years' Statute of Limitations, which is set up as
a defence in this case, to apply to an action brought by one
claiming under a tax deed, as well as to one brought by the
original owner of the land. Brown v Panter, 38 Iowa, 456,
Laverty v. Sexton, 41 id. 435. And the court so ruled m this
case. See Barrett v Love, 48 id. 103.
By these decisions the Supreme Court of the State has
established a rule of property in the State of Iowa which is
binding on this and other courts of the United States. Jackson v Chew, 12 Wheat. 153, Beauregard v New Orleans, 18
How 497, Suydam v Williamson, 24 id. 427, Nichols v. Levy,
5 Wall. 433, Williams v Kirtland, 13 id. 306.
So far, therefore, as this point is concerned, it must be considered as settled.
But' the court further held that the limitation began to run
at the time of the execution and recording of the tax. deed,
irrespective of the question of adverse possession, so that, if at
any time during the period of five years, no matter how near
its close, the former owner takes actual possession, and holds
until the expiration of the five years from the date of the
execution and recording of the tax deed, the right of the purchaser at the tax sale is completely barred.
The plaintiff in error claims that when thus construed the
statute is in conflict with the Constitution of the United States
first, because it deprives the purchaser at a tax sale of his
property without due process of. law, and, second, because it
impairs the obligation of the contract of purchase, of which
the statute in force when it was made forms a part. Art. 5,
Amendments to the Constitution, and sect. 10, art. 1.
The argument of the plaintiff in error is that the purchaser

656

BARRETT V. HOLMES.

[Sup. Ct.

at a tax sale cannot bring suit to recover the land purchased
by him until the former owner, or some one else, takes adverse
possession, and as no such possession may be taken until just
before, or even after, the expiration of the five years, his right
to the land is cut off without giving him his day in court, and
the obligation of the contract contained in his deed, and the
law under which it was executed, is impaired.
We do not think that the premise from which this conclusion is drawn is true in point of fact, nor, if it were, that the
conclusion would follow
The Iowa statute (Rev 3601, Code, 3273) declares that
"an action to determine and quiet the title of real property
may be brought by any one having or claiming an interest
therein, whether in or out of possession of the same, against
any person claiming title thereto though not in possession."
The Supreme Court of Iowa, in this case, held that the
bringing of an action under the section first quoted would be
an action for the recovery of the property, and would interrupt
the running of the five years' Statute of Limitation. Barrettv
Love, 48 Iowa, 103.
The fact, therefore, that the lands are unoccupied during
the five years succeeding the execution and recording of the
tax deed is no obstacle to the bringing of a suit which would
interrupt the running of the limitation.
But even if no such action could be brought, we think
that the purchaser at a tax sale is not deprived of any of the
rights conferred on him by his purchase and deed, by reason of the construction put upon the five years' Statute of
Limitation.
The right of the legislature to prescribe what shall be the
effect of a tax sale and deed cannot be questioned. The legislature of Iowa, in the enactments brought to our notice in this
case, has exercised that right with great liberality to the purchaser at the tax sale. It has made his deed presumptive
evidence of certain facts and conclusive evidence of others,
it has declared that it shall vest in him all the estate of the
former owner and of the county and State in the premises.
But it has also declared, in effect, that the deed shall not support an action for the recovery of the land unless the suit

Oct. 1880.]

BARRETT V. HOLMES.

therefor is brought within five years after the treasurer's deed
is executed and recorded. When, therefore, the purchaser at a
tax sale receives the treasurer's deed, he takes it with all the
He knows
advantages and disadvantages incident thereto.
precisely its effect, and what he must do to protect his title
under it, for all this is plainly written in the law If there
should turn out to be an insuperable obstacle to his establishing his title to unoccupied lands, he cannot complain, for
the whole subject was under the legislative control, the rules
affecting his title were proclaimed in advance, and he bought
with his eyes open. He took the risk of being able to make
his deed effectual under the rules prescribed by the legislature.
He gets all he bargained for. So that when the Statute of
-Limitation cuts him off, he having, as he imagined, been unable
to bring his suit for want-of a party in adverse possession, he
has been deprived of no right which he ever possessed.
The legislature might have declared that the title of the
purchaser at the tax sale should be divested without his consent by the repayment to him within a prescribed period, by
the former owner, of. the amount of his bid, or the tax and the'
interest and penalty thereon. The right to redeem the title of
lands sold for taxes is one commonly reserved, and the right
is favored by the policy of the law -Dubozs v He burn, 10
Pet. 1, Corbett v Nutt, 10 Wall. 464, Gault's Appeal, 33
Pa. St. 94, Rice v Nelson, 27 Iowa, 148, Schenk v Peag,
1 Dill. 267, Masterson v Beasley, 3 Ohio, 301, Jones v Collins, 16 Wis. 594, Curtzs v Whitney, 13 Wall. 68. But it
would scarcely be contended that such statute deprived the
purchaser of his property without due process of law, or impaired the obligation of ls contract of purchase.
But under the Iowa law the purchaser at a tax sale, who can
find no one in possession against whom to bring his suit, has
a plain way to make his title indefeasible, and that is by taking
possession himself.
When the section prescribing the effect of the treasurer's
deed and that prescribing the five years' limitation are considered together, the policy of the law is plain, and no cause
of complaint is left the purchaser at tax sale. The effect of
the two sections is this, that the party holding under the tax
VOL. XII.

42

WHITE V. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

deed must within five years either himself take actual possession of the property, or within the same period bring a suit
to recover possession , and, upon his failure to do either, his
action upon his deed shall be barred.
When thus considered, the law violates no contract and deprives the purchaser at the tax sale of no estate or property to
which he had a right. He bought subject to a condition, with
explicit warning that if he did not comply with it, his deed
should become ineffectual to support an action. Failing to
perform the condition, he is left without remedy, but also
without just ground for complaint.
We see no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

WmiiTE

v.

NATIONAL

BANK.

Suit by A. against B. as indorser of a protested draft, the indorsement being,
"Pay to A. or order for account of B." The declaration contained a special
count on the draft and indorsement, and one for money paid for the use of B.
at his request. Held, 1. That by the terms of the indorsement A. became
merely the agent of B. for the collection of the money 2. That under the
special count parol evidence was not admissible to vary those terms. 3. That
under the common count it was competent for A. to show that at the time of
the indorsement and delivery of the draft to him he gave B. his check therefor less the discount, and that the latter received and used the money.
4. That under that count A. was entitled to recover from B. either for money
paid without consideration, money loaned, or money advanced to hin on the
faith of the delivery of the draft.

En o to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Colorado.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
-Hr S. V
iite for the plaintiff in error.
Ar Henry HW.Teller, contra.
MR. JUSTIoE MILER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action by White, who was plaintiff below, for
the sum of $60,000, against the Miner's National Bank of

