UNITED STATES V. PINSON.

[Sup. Ct.

any equitable right of the holder of the notes, to secure the
payment of which the mortgage or trust-deed was executed.
As to the position- tlht the complainant is barred of the relief he asks by laches in asserting'bis claim, we do not think
there is any force in it. The company, as already stated, must
be deemed to have known of the want of power in the trustee
to release the property from the Coburn deed, and it does not
lie in its mouth to object that the complainant did not sooner
seek to set aside the priority of lien thus gained, nor can it
aver that his claim to have the instrument cancelled, by which
this priority was secured, is a stale one, when asserted within
the period allowed by law, and no rights of third parties as
bona fide purchasers have intervened to render inequitable the
assertion of his original lien.
-Decreeaffirmed.

UNITED STATES V. PINSON.
The account of a delinquent revenue officer or other person accountable for public monev, as finally adjusted by the proper officers of the Treasury Department, is not admissible as evidence under sect. 886, Rev. Stat., unless it be
certified and authenticated to be a transcript from the books and proceedings
of that department. A certificate, therefore, which states that the transcript,
to which it is annexed, is a copy of the original on file is not sufficient, that
being the form used in reference to mere copies of bonds, contracts, or other
papers connected with the final adjustment.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Solicitor-General for the United States.
11._r B. IV fstes and Hir Ienry T. Ellett, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action against the executrix of one of several
sureties on the official bond, executed April 9, 1858, of Miles H.
Morris, formerly a purser in the navy The government claims
that deceased failed to account for certain clothing received by

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. PINSON.

him as purser on board the ship "Vandalia," and for a large
amount of public money received by him as purser and disbursing officer on board the ship "Seminole."
The bill of exceptions states that the district attorney,.after
reading in evidence a certified copy of the bond of Morris, as
purser in the navy, offered to read to the 3ury, as evidence in
behalf of the United States, "the account of Miles H. Morris,
as purser in the United States Navy, as certified by the Treasury Department." The account, thus offered, is made up of
several distinct papers, as follows Brief to accompany the
account of Miles H. Morris, late paymaster U. S. Navy, abstract of expenditures of Miles H. Morris, paymaster U. S. S.
"Vandalia," abstract of clothing and small stores, abstract
of expenditures of Miles H. Morris, paymaster U. S. S. "S e minole," statement of the account of Miles H. Morris, a purser
U. S. S. "Vandalia," from May 19, 1858, to Jan. 6, 1860;
statement of the account of Miles H. Morris, paymaster
U. S. S. "Seminole," from May 1, 1860, to March 12, 1861,
report 4,805, statement of the account of M. H. Morris, late
paymaster U.'S. Navy, supplementary to repprt 4,805-; statement of the account of M. H. Morris, late paymaster U. S.
Navy, supplementary to report 161 A.
To these abstracts and statements is appended a certificate
or communication by the Fourth Auditor in the Treasury Department, under date of Jan. 19, 1874, addressed to the Second
Comptroller of the Treasury, stating that he had examined and
adjusted the account of Morris, late paymaster United States
Navy, supplementary 'to his account of "Seminole " report
161 A, and found that there was due from him to the United
States the sum of $5,922.60 under certain heads of appropriations which are specified, and also that the statements and
accounts showing such balance were therewith transmitted to
the Second Comptroller for his decision thereon. There is
also appended a statement by.the Second Comptroller, under
date of Jan. 20, 1874, to the effect that he admitted and certified the balance reported by the Fourth Auditor.
Prefixed to the foregoing papers is the certificate of the
Secretary of the Treasury, under the seal of that department, to the effect that William B. Moore, who certified the

UNITED STATES V. PINSON.

[Sup. Ot.

"annexed transcript," was then, and at the tune of doing so
was, deputy Fourth Auditor of the Treasury, and that full
faith and credit were due to his official attestations.
Following that of the Secretary was a certificate in these
words "TREAsuRY

DEPARTMENT, FOURTH AUDITOR'S OFFICE.

" July 23, 1875.
"Pursuant to an act of Congress to provide for the prompt settlement of public accounts, approved 3d of M:irch, 1817, I, Wil-

liam B. Moore, deputy Fourth Auditor of the Treasury Department,
do hereby certify that the annexed transcripts are true copies of the
Wm. B. MOORE."
originals on file in this office.
To the reading of the foregoing "account" or "transcript"
the defendant objected, and the objection was sustained, to
which ruling an exception was taken by the government. Under instructions from the court, a verdict was then returned for
the defendant.
Whether the papers offered in evidence by the government
are competent evidence in support of its claim, is the general
question presented for our determination.
By the law, as it has long existed, it is the duty of the
Fourth Auditor of the Treasury Department to receive and
examine .all accounts accruing in the Navy Department, or
relating thereto, and after such examination to certify the
balances, transmitting such accounts, with the vouchers and
certificates, to the Second Comptroller for his decision thereon.
Rev Stat., sect. 277 Upon their examination by the latter officer it becomes his duty to certify the balance arising thereon
to the Secretary of the Navy Id., sect. 273. The statute also
provides that "the auditors charged with the examination of
the accounts of the departments of war and of the navy shall
keep all accounts of the receipts and expenditures of the public money in regard to those departments, and of all debts due
to the United States or moneys advanced relative to those
departments, shall receive from the Second Comptroller the
accounts which shall have been finally adjusted, and shall preserve such accounts, with their vouchers and certificates, and
record all requisitions drawn by the secretaries of those depart-

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. PINSON.

ments, the examination of the accounts of which has been assigned to them." Id., sect. 288.
When an account has thus been examined, passed upon, and
the Balance certified, it is adjusted, as well within the meaning
of the section last quoted, as of sect. 957 of the Revised Statutes. The latter section, in part, provides that "when suit is
brought by the United States against any revenue officer or
other person accountable for public mioney, who neglects or
refuses to pay into the treasury the sum or balance reported
to be due to the United States, upon the adjustment of his
account, it shall be the duty of the court to grant judgment
at the return term, upon motion, unless the defendant in open
court (the United States attorney being present) makes and
subscribes an oath that he is equitably entitled to credits
which had been, previous to the commencement of the suit,
submitted to the accounting officers of the treasury and rejected, specifying in the affidavit each particular claim so
rejected, and that he cannot then safely come to trial. If
the court, when such oath is made, subscribed, and filed, is
thereupon satisfied, a continuance until the next succeeding
term may be granted."' This section is referred to for the purpose of showing as well the importance attached to the final
adjustment of accounts by the proper officers of the treasury,
as the difficulty in going behind or disputing the correctness
of such adjustment when made the basis of a suit instituted to
recover the balance reported to be due the government.
We come now to sect. 88. of the Revised Statutes, upon the
construction of which depends the solution of the question to
which we have already referred. That section declares that
"when suit is brought in any case of delinquency of a revenue
officer, or other person accountable for public money, a transcript from the books and proceedings of the Treasury Department, certified by the register, and authenticated under the
seal of the department, or, when the suit involves the accounts
of the War or Navy Departments, certified by the auditors
respectively charged with tne examination of those accounts,
and ahthenticated under the seal of the Treasury Department,
shall be admitted as evidence, and the court trying the cause
shall be authorized to grant judgment and award execution

UNITED STATES V. PINSON.

[Slip. Ct.

accordingly And all copies of bonds, contracts, or other papers
relating to or connected with the settlement of any account
between the United States and an individual, when certified by
the register, or by such auditor, as the case may be, to be true
copies of the originals on file, and authenticated under the seal
of the department, may be annexed to such transcripts, and
shall have equal validity and be entitled to the same degree
of credit which would be due to the original papers, if produced and authenticated in court: Provided, that where suit
is brought upon a bond or other sealed instrument, and the
defendant pleads non est factum, or makes his motion to the
court, verifying such plea or motion by his oath, the court may
take the same into consideration, and, if it appears to be necessary for the attainment of justice, may require the production
of the original bond, contract, or other paper specified in such
affidavit."
This section embodies the provisions found in the second
section of the act of March 3, 1797 (1 Stat. 512), providing
more effectually for the settlement of accounts between the
United States and receivers of public money, and the eleventh
section of the act of March 3, 1817, relating to the prompt settlement of public accounts. 3 id. 367
It will be observed that sect. 886 refers to "transcripts from
the books and proceedings of the Treasury Department," as well
as to "copies of bonds, contracts, or other papers relating to
or connected with the settlement of any account between the
United States and an individual." The former, certified and
authenticated as required by the statute, "shall be admitted as
evidence," while the latter, certified and authenticated in like
manner, "may be annexed to such transcript," and have "equal
validity, and be entitled to the same degree of credit which
would be due to the original papers, if produced and authenticated in court." Commenting upon similar language in the
act of March 3, 1817, this court, in Smith v United S8tates
(5 Pet. 300), which was a suit against a paymaster in the army
for a balance alleged to be due to the government, said, that
under the head of "a transcript from the books and proceedings
of the Treasury Department" were included "charges of money
advanced or paid by the department to the agent, and claims

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. PINSON.

suspended, rejected, or placed to his credit." These all appear,
said the court, upon the "books " of the department, and the
decision on the vouchers exhibited, and the statement of the
amount due, constitute, in part, the "proceedings" of the treasury. The court, in that case, recognizes the transcript from
the books and proceedings of the department as a document
which shows the account of the government debtor, as finally
adjusted by the proper officers, and as it appears upon the
records of the department. Such adjusted accounts, says Mr.
Chief Justice Taney, necessarily show the charges against as
well as the credits of the disbursing officer. They "could not,"
said he, "be adjusted on the books ii any other manner, and
the transcript, or, in other words, the copy of the entire account,
as it stands on the books (which must include debits as well as
credits), are made evidence by the law Nor do we see any
reason for restricting the words of the act of Congress within
narrower limits than the words plainly imply The accounts
are adjusted by public sworn officers, bound to do equal justice
to the government and the individual. They are records of
the proper departments, and are always open to inspection of
the party interested." Bruce v United States, 17 How 437
Unless, therefore, the transcript offered, as evidence, upon
the trial below is certified by the proper officer, and authenticated under the department seal, to be "a transcript from the
books and proceedings of the Treasury Department," it is not
such a transcript as the statute makes evidence.
We are of opinion that the transcript offered is not certified
and authenticated to be of that character which the statute
declares shall be admitted as, in itself, evidence. 'Thecertificate of the deputy Fourth Auditor is that the " transcript"
thereto annexed, that is, the statement and abstracts heretofore described, are "true copies of the originals on file" in his
office. That is precisely such a certificate as the officer would
make in reference to mere copies of bonds, contracts, or other
papers relating to or connected with the final adjustment of
the account, for the purpose of giving to such copies the same
effect as would be accorded to the originals if produced and
authenticated in court. If the papers offered, and excluded by
the court below, constitute, in fact, the final adjustment of

UNITED STATES V. PINSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Morris's accounts, the certificates should not have described
them as copies of originals on file, but as transcripts of the
books and proceedings of the department. The statute, for
the convenience of the government m a certain class of suits
against delinquent public officers, makes an alteration of the
established laws of evidence. The government, by a statutory
rule which the courts must enforce, denies to defendants in
such suits the benefit of the recognized principles which, at
common law, govern the proof of essential facts in issue, and
it should not be permitted to claim an exemption from the fair
and legitimate operation of that rule. It may be true, as the
certificate of the deputy Fourth Auditor states, that the papers
offered are true copies of some originals on the files of his
office, for instance, of the original drafts of settlement. But
it does not necessarily follow that they present an accurate or
correct statement of the final settlement or adjustment of the
accounts as shown on the books and in the record of the proceedings of the department. Such originals may never have
become a part of the books and proceedings of the department,
in the sense of the law, or within the meaning of our former
decisions. United States v Buford, 3 Pet. 12, Smith v United
States, 5 id. 292, Cox v United States, 6 id. 172, United
States v Jones, 8 id. 375, Gratzot v United States, 15 id. 336,
JHoyt v United States, 10 How 109, Bruce v United States,
17 id. 437 That the abstracts or statements offered and excluded may, upon their examination, seem to the court to be
the final adjustment of Morris's accounts is not sufficient.
Upon that question the court might be mistaken in any conclusion it should reach, or it may err in the inferences drawn
from the items of the, accounts. What the statute meant was,
that the official certificate of the officer, charged with the examination of the accounts, should be of such character as to
give the court, as well as the parties, an assurance that the
transcript offered as evidence to support the claim of the government exhibits, in fact, the final adjustment of the accounts
of the delinquent officer, as shown, not by mere copies of original papers on the files, but upon the books and records of the
department.
This question, in a somewhat different form, arose in Smith

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. PINSON.

v United States, supra. There, as here, the auditor certified
that the transcripts offered in evidence were " true copies of
the originals on file" in his office, and, in that form, the certificate narrowly escaped condemnation. The majority of the
court, evidently with some hesitation, held the transcripts
admissible m evidence upon the ground that the bill of exceptions stated that the documents, offered as evidence and
excluded, purported to be transcripts "from the books and
proceedings of the Treasury Department." Upon that point
three of the judges dissented. The grounds of the dissent are
stated in the opinion of the court. The minority held that the
certificate could be regarded as referring only to papers the
originals of which were on file, that the books of the department could not be said to be on file, nor were copies from them
copies from originals within the meaning of the statute, that
it was a copy from the books and proceedings in the Treasury
Department which was made evidence, and not mere copies of
papers, though on the files, on which the rough draft of settlement may have been entered.
The bill of exceptions does not bring the present case, upon
this particular point, within the ruling in Smith v United
States. There is no statement in the bill here that the papers
offered and excluded were transcripts from the books and proceedings in the treasury, but only that they constituted the
"account of Miles H. Morris, as purser of the United States
Navy, as certified by the Treasury Department." This language
is not equivalent to that which the statute requires in order to
make the transcript evidence, and we are not disposed to extend
the rule announced in Smith v United States. The statute is
founded in justice as well as in the necessities of the government when compelled to institute suits against delinquent
public -officers. Its provisions are easily understood, and it is
not at all difficult to meet the manifest object Congress had in
enacting them. When the government desires, in suits against
a delinquent officer accountable for public money, to use the
final adjustment of his accounts as evidence, the certificate of
the officer should show, not, necessarily, in the very words of
the statute, but plainly, and not by mere inference, that the
transcript offered is from the books and proceedings of the

GOODMAN v. NIBLACK.

[Sup. ot.

department, in other words, that such transcript presents
the account of the delinquent as finally adjusted by the proper
officers of the government, and spread upon the records of the
department.
Without stopping to consider other points raised by counsel
in support of the ruling below, it is sufficient to say, that, for
the reasons given, the court below did not err in excluding
from the jury the transcripts offered by the government.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SwVAYKE

and MR.

GOODMAN

v.

JUSTICE BRADLEY

dissented.

NIBLACK.

1. A., who had a contract with the United States, agreed with B., in 1847, that
the latter should pertorn it, and that the profits should be equally divided
between them. Thereupon they and C. executed an instrument in which
the agreement was recited, and A., for the due fulfilment thereof, assigned
tile contract to C. as trustee. A controversy having arisen as to the
amount due upon the contract, Congress, in 1870, authorized C. as such
trustee to sue tile United States therefor, and subsequently made an appropriation to pay the judgment which lie recovered. Held, that as the
assignient was thus recognized by the government, the parties to the agreement and those claiming under them are precluded from setting up that
the contract was not assignable.
2. A. made in 1860 an assignment for the benefit of his creditors, which iicluded
all his rights, credits, effects, and property of every description. Held, that
the assignment, although it covered whatever might be due to him under
his contract with the government, was not within the prohibition of the act
of Feb. 26, 1853 (10 Stat. 170, re-enacted in sect. 3477, Rev. Stat.), nor in
violatio of public policy.
3. Spofford v. Kirk (97 U. S. 484) and Erwn v. Ubnited States (id. 392) cited and
examined.
4. Where a bill is filed to enforce a claim or lien upon a specific fund within
reach of the court, and such of the defendants as are neither inhabitants
of nor found within the district do not voluntarily appear, the Circuit
Court has jurisdiction to adjudicate upon their right to, or interest in,
tle fimd, if they be notified of the pendency of the suit by service or pubhication, in the mode prescribed by sect. 738 of the Revised Statutes.
5. In such a case, where it appears by the bill that certaiii non-residents are
indispensable parties, and they are not made parties, the bill is bad on
demurrer, and should be dismissed without prejudice.

