Ot. 1880.]

SEWARD V. CORNEAU.

Its affairs are necessarily managed by officers and agents, it is
true, but, in law, it is as distinct a being as an individual is,
and is entitled to hold property (if not contrary to its charter)
as absolutely as an individual can hold it. Its estate is the
same, its interest is the same, its possession is the same. Its
stockholders may call the officers to account, and may prevent
any malversation of'funds, or fraudulent disposal of property
on their part. But that- is done in the exercise of their corporate rights, not adverse to the corporate interests, but coincident
with them.
When a corporation becomes insolvent, it is so far civilly
dead, that its property may be administered as a trust-fund for
the benefit of its stockholders and creditors. A court of equity,
at the instance of the proper parties, will then make those funds
trust-funds, which, in other -circumstances, are as much the
absolute property of the corporation, as any man's property is
his. We see no reason why the disposal by a corporation of
any of its property should be questioned by subsequent creditors of the corporation, any more than a like disposal by an
individual of his property should be so. The same principles
of law apply to each.
We think that the present bill cannot be maintained.
Decree affirjned.

SEWARD V. COItNEAU.
A bond is not suffcient for the purppses of either an appeal to this court or a
supersedeas, if the obligors are not thereby bound for the payment of costs,
should the appellant fail to make his plea good.

MOTION to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Louisiana.
This suit, brought in a State court of Louisiana, to enjoin
a proceeding known as an order of seizure and sale, was, on
the petition of the complainants, removed to the Circuit Court,
where, on a final hearing, their bill was dismissed. From the
decree they prayed for an appeal, which was allowed, with an
VOL. XII.

11

162

SEWARD V. OORNEAU.

[Sup. Ct.

order that it should "operate as a supersedeas and stay of execution until the final decree of the Supreme Court should be
rendered therein, on the complainants giving bond in the sum
of $1,000."
The bond given was approved by the district judge. It
is subject to the condition that we, the appellants, "will well
and truly pay to the said defendants in said appeal and suit
all such damages as they may recover against us in case it
should be decided that the said appeal was wrongfully obtained."
The appellees now move to dismiss the appeal, upon the
ground that the bond does not conform to the requirements of
the statute or to the twenty-ninth rule of this court.
lgr -Rdwzn T. iiferrtcl and 111r George TV Race in support of
the motion.
rL"John D lePherson and Hr Calderon Carlisle, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The bond in this case is insufficient in form either for the
purposes of a supersedeas or an appeal, inasmuch as it contains no security for costs. This, however, does not necessarily
avoid the appeal, but we may impose such terms on the appellants for the omission as, under the circumstances, shall seem
to be proper. M11arttn v Hfunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304, .Dawdson v Laner, 4 Wall. 447
The appeal will, therefore, be dismissed, unless the appellants, on or before the first Monday in
January next, give bond, with good and sufficient security,
in due form of law, to prosecute their appeal to effect, and to
answer all damages and costs if they fail to make their plea
good, the bond to be in the penal sum of $1,000, and the security taken and approved by the justice of this court assigned
to the fifth circuit, and it is
So ordered.

