BALL V. LANGLES.

[Sup. Gt.

case the petitioners describe themselves as engaged in the occupation of selling spirituous, vinous, malt, and other intoxicating
liquors, that is. in all the liquors mentioned and others not
mentioned. There is no reason why they should be exempted
from the tax when selling brandies and whiskies and other
alcoholic drinks, in the quantities mentioned, because they
could not be thus taxed if their occupation was limited to the
sale of wines and beer.
We see, therefore, no error in the ruling of the Supreme
Court of Texas, and its judgment is accordingly
Affirmed.

BALL v. LANGLES.
1. Reissued letters-patent No. 4026, granted June 14, 1870, to Hosea Ball for a
new and useful improvement in ovens, are void, inasmuch as they contain
new matter, and are for an invention different from that exhibited in the
original specification and drawings.
2. The ruling in Seyniour v. Osborie (11 Wall. 516) and Russell v. Dodge (93 U.'S.
460), touching the authority of the Commissioner of Patents in granting a
reissue of letters-patent, reaffirmed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
MTr Thomas J.-Durant and M~r Charles W Hornor for the
appellants.
Hr Conway Robnson and Mr Lezgh Bo5bnson, contra.
R'J. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity filed by Hosea Ball and Margaret
Haughery, against Justin Langles and N A. Baumgarden,
composing the firm of Baumgarden & Langles. It charges
an infringement by the defendants of reissued letters-patent
granted to Ball, June 14, 1870, for an alleged new and useful improvement in ovens. The original patent was granted
to him on the 23d of September, 1856, for a period of fourteen years from that date. On the 12th of October, 1869, this

Oct. 1880.]

BALL V. LANGLES.

original was surrendered, and a reissue was granted. A second
reissue was granted on the 14th of June, 1870, numbered 4026.
Subsequently an extension of the patent was granted for seven
years, from Sept. 23, 1870. It is upon the second reissue (No.
4026), thus extended, that this suit is founded. The charge of
the bill is, that the defendants have constructed such an oven
as that patented, with intent to use it. The Circuit Court dismissed the bill, and from that decree the complainants have
appealed.
The first question now to be considered under the pleadings
and evidence is, whether the reissued patent CNo. 4026) is
valid. One of the defences set up by the answer is, that the
reissue is not for the same invention as that described, claimed,
and shown in the original letters, and it is averred that the
surrender of those letters and the first reissue were for the
purpose of introducing new matter not shown, suggested, or
indicated in the specification, drawings, or model filed with the
original application, and also for the purpose of obtaining a
claim broader than the invention, and broad enough to cover
the invention of subsequent inventors and patentees. If these
averments of the answer are well founded the reissue is void,
and it will be unnecessary to consider the other defences
set up.
When the reissues of 1869 and 1870 were granted, the Commissioner of Patents had authority under the acts of Congress
to grant reissues only in certain specified cases. These were
whenever a patent was inoperative or invalid by reason of a defective or insufficient specification, or by reason of the patentee's
claiming as his own invention or discovery more than he had
a right to claim as new, if the error had arisen by inadvertence, accident, or mistake, without any fraudulent or deceptive intention. The commissioner was invested with authority
to determine whether the surrendered patent was valid by reason of a defective or insufficient specification, or because the
patentee had claimed more than he bad a right to claim as new,
and if he found such to be the case, and found also that the
error had been due to inadvertence, accident, or mistake, without fraud, his decision was conclusive, and not subject to review
by the courts. But the law did not confer upon him jurisdicVOL. XII.

9

BALL v. LANGLES.

[Sup. Ct.

tion to grant a reissue embracing new matter, or a broader
invention than what was revealed by the original specification,
or drawings or models, except in some cases where there was
neither model nor drawing. A reissue for anything more is,
therefore, inoperative and void. Accordingly, this court has
repeatedly held that if, on comparing a reissue with its original, the former appears on its face to be for a different invention from that described or indicated in the latter, it must be
declared invalid. Seymour v Osborne, 11 Wall. 516, 544,
Bussell v Dodge, 93 U. S. 460.
In the original patent, Ball described his invention as consisting of an oven with a series of bread-receivers swung between the ends of a reel hung in an interior perforated chamber,
and capable of rotation on a horizontal shaft, an arrangement
being provided for the self-delivery of the bread from the front
of the oven, as afterwards set forth. Having thus described it
generally, he proceeded to set forth in detail its construction,
including the mode in which it was heated. This was done in
part by explanation of his drawings. A fire-chamber was represented below the oven, with an ash-pit beneath. Above the
fire-chamber, but beneath the oven, a space through which the
products of combustion passed on their way to the chimney commuicating by openings with the vertical side and back flues.
These flues were exterior to the oven proper, but they cormmrnnicated with the interior chamber or oven by perforations or
openings. In this interior chamber the bread was placed on
platforms hung on a revolving reel, and a mode of discharge
and filling was described. The specification then stated that,
"owing to the perforated sides and back of the interior chamber, all parts of it receive the full heat of the oven, suitable
dampers regulating the course of the products of combustion
to the chimney " Such was the description, so far as it is necessary to state it. The single claim of the patent was as follows
"What I claim and desire to secure by letters-patent
is the perforated interior chamber, in combination with the
rotary reel and the swinging platform thereon, self-discharging,
substantially as set forth."
It is evident from this description and from the attendant
drawings that the interior chamber or oven was so constructed,

Oct. 1880.]

BALL V. LANGLES.

that what are called "the products of combustion" did not and
could not pass directly into it. The chamber was heated by
those products passing through the exterior flues on the sides
and back. There was no direct communication between the
space above the fire-chamber and the interior of the .oven, and
no communication at all except indirectly through the perforations in the vertical flues on the sides and back of the oven.
The interior chamber was heated for baking by heat radiating
from its walls, except the comparatively small quantity which
was permitted to enter through the small perforations in the
flues. It is impossible to detect in the specification or drawings any intention or hint even of conducting the products of
combustion (whatever may have been meant by the phrase,
whether heat, gases, or *moke, or all of them) directly into
the baking-chamber. Not a single ray of heat could enter the
chamber, radiated from the fire. No passage was provided
through the bottom, and even the perforations in the sides must
have been ineffe-etual to divert the ascending heat from its
upward course through the flues.
If, now, we turn to the reissues of 1869 and 1870, it cannot
be doubted that while they claim what was claimed in the
original, they claim much more. They claim an entirely different mode of heating the chamber, necessitating a radical
difference in the construction of the oven.
The specification of the reissue of 1870, as well as that of
1869, instead of representing the space above the. fire-chamber
as communicating. with the interior chamber only indirectly
through perforations in the vertical and back flues, described it
as communicating "directly or indirectly in any proper manner with the chamber in which the bread-receiving shelves or
platforms are revolved." The patentee says, "The flues and
openings to permit the passage or circulation. of gases into or
through the bread-chamber may be located and arranged in
any effective manner." Thus the flues and openings may be
made through the bottom of the oven and immediately over
the fire, admitting direct radiation from the fire-chamber. And
he claims "one or more swinging bread-bolders, suspended
from the arms or end plates. of a rotating reel in combination
with a furnace so arranged and connected that the products of

FRENCH

V. WADE.

[Sup. Ct.

combustion will pass into or through the chamber within which
the bread-holders move." Thus his reissued patent has become
one for an oven in which there may be no diaphragm or partition separating the compartment in which the dough is placed
from the furnace by which it is heated, and which may be
directly under it. Thus the oven is made a part of the passagewav for the products of combustion from the fire-chamber to
the chimney That this is a very different invention from
anything exhibited in the original specification and drawings
is too obvious to need further elucidation. We cannot doubt
that the purpose of the reissues was not to cure defects m the
original specification, or any deficiency in describing the invention, but to cover other devices which the patentee had not
in mind when he first applied for his patent, and which may
have subsequently come to his knowledge. Thirteen years
after the patent was granted had elapsed before he applied for
any reissue. However this may be, the reissued letters are
so clearly for a different invention from that for which the
patentee first applied, containing new matter, and so much
broader, that we are constrained to hold that the Commissioner
of Patents had no authority to grant them, and consequently
that they are void.
The complainants' bill was, therefore, rightly dismissed.
Decree affirmed.

FRENCHr v. WADE.
1. A.'s lands in Louisiana were, May 6, 1865, duly forfeited to the United States
by a decree of the proper court in the exercise of the jurisdiction conferred
by the Confiscation Act of July 17, 1862 (12 Stat. 589), as modified by the
joint resolution of even date therewith. Id. 627. A. purchased them under
the decree, and, on receiving from the marshal a deed therefor, bargained
and sold them to B. in fee, by an authentic act of sale, with all legal warranties. On the death of A., his heirs-at-law sued B. for the possession of
the lands. Held, that they were entitled to recover.
2. Wallach et al. v. Van Riswwck (92 U. S. 202) reaffirmed.

EnRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.

