Oct. 1880.]

MINING CO. V. CONSOLIDATED MINING CO.

167

charge to the jury And so construing the bill of exceptions,
we do not perceive that any error of law was committed, and
the judgment is, therefore,
Affirmed.

MINING COMPANY V. CONSOLIDATED MINING COMPANY.
1. The grant of the sixteenth and thirty-sikth sections of public land to the
State of California for school purposes, made by the act of March 3, 1853
(10 Stat. 246), was not intended to cover mineral lands. Such lands
were, by the settled policy of the general government, excluded from all
grants.
2. A settlement within the meaning of sect. 7 of that act is not required, either
in regard to the acts to be done or the qualifications of the settler, to be
precisely the same as that whereby a pre-emption right can be secured
under the act of Sept. 4, 1841. 5 Stat. 453.
3. Whenever, at the time the government surveys of section 16 or 36 of public
land in California are made, there is, by the erection of a dwelling-house
or by cultivation, a settlement on any portion thereof, whereon some one
resides who asserts .claim thereto, the title to such portion does not vest
in the State, but she has the right to other land in lieu thereof. Sherman
v. Buzck (93 U. S. 209) and Water 4- Mining Company v. Bugbey (96 id. 165)
commented on and explained.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

Hr Peter Van Clief and 1r Oliver D. Barrett for the plaintiff in error, 1Vr Samuel A!. Wilson and 1Air George A. Nourse
for the defendant in error, Hr Bqnjamzn P Butler for the
State of California, and The Attorney- eneral for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The action in this case was brought originally in the State
court of California by Daniel W Gillette against the Keystone
Consolidated Mining Company, the present defendant in error,
to recover possession of the east half of section 36, in township
7 north, range 10 east of Mount Diablo meridian, and in the
progress of the case it was transferred to the Circuit Court of

168

MINING Co. v. CONSOLIDATED

MINING CO.

[Sup. Ct.

the United States, where judgment was rendered in favor of
the defendant. The Ivanhoe Mining Company, the plaintiff
in error, having been substituted for Gillette, as his successor in
interest, a jury was waived by the parties, and the case submitted to the court.
The plaintiff asserted title to the land in controversy under a
patent from the State of California, and the defendant under
patents from the United States. The title of California rests
upon the act of Congress granting that State the sixteenth and
thirty-sixth sections of every township for school purposes, and
that of defendant on the acts of Congress concerning the possession and sale of the mineral lands.
As the question to be decided necessarily involves the'title to
much other mineral land in California, in which the authorities
of the State of California and the officers of the Land Department of the United States entertain and act upon conflicting
views of the rights of the State and the general government, the
State of California by her counsel, and the United States by
the Attorney-General, have been permitted to take part in the
argument.
The defendant only claims part of the land embraced in
plaintiff's patent, and denies possession of that for which no
title is asserted, and, as no possession is proved beyond that for
which the defendant defends, only that is in controversy
The court below finds tnat this is mineral land, and that the
patent of the United States was issued to defendant for three
several mining claims, to wit, the Spring Hill, the Geneva, and
the Keystone. That the Spring Hill was located in May, 1851,
the Keystone in 1853, and the Geneva in October, 1863, and
that the original locators of said claims and their grantees have
held undisturbed possession thereof ever since, and by such
possession and the working of said mines the possessory title
was vested in defendant at the time it filed its application for
said patent in the land-office of the United States at Sacramento, Jan. 6, 1871, unless the State of California had acquired
title to section 36 by grant from the United States. It also
appears that on the land thus claimed by plaintiff a mining
town, called Amador City, exists, of about four hundred or
five hundred people, which began in 1850, and reached the

Oct. 1880.]

MINING CO. v. CONSOLIDATED MINING CO.

169

number mentioned in 1853, with many dwelling-houses, and
some forty acres cultivated by the owners of the Keystone
mining claim.
On the 18th of June, 1870, one Henry Casey applied to the
State authorities to purchase the half-section of land on which
tlns town and these mining claims were located, and a State
patent was issued to his vendee, Uillette, Oct. 3, 1872.
The township in which this land lies was surveyed in the
field in March, 1870, the survey approved Sept. 3, 1870, and
the plat filed in the United States land-office at Sacramento,
Oct. 7, 1870. Within three months after this latter date the
application of the defendant was made for patents for the three
minng claims, and the patents were issued July 14, 1873.
The right to these patents, and the claim of the town of
Amador City, were contested before the register and receiver,
the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, and the Secretary of' the Interior, by the State of California, and the parties
claiming under her, and the decision was adverse to the title of
the State.
The question, and the only question, presented for our consideration is very sharply presented by this statement of facts
and by the acts of Congress pertinent to the subject, and it is,
whether under these acts the title of the land in question became fixed and vested absolutely in the State of California on
the ascertainment by the survey of 1870 that it was part of the
thirty-sixth section of the township in which it lies.
The act of March 3, 1853 (10 Stat. 244), under which the
right of the State of California to the school lands arises, has
been the subject of construction in this court more than once
heretofore, and the decision of the question before us requires
a further critical examination of its provisions. The first five
sections of it provide for the establishment of the offices of
surveyor-general, two land-offices, with registers and receivers,
and for the organization of the general land system of the
United States, including surveys, and it then proceeds to lay
down the rules by which rights to the public lands may be
acquired. The granting clause of the sixteenth and thirty-sixth
sections of the public lands as thus surveyed, to the State of
California, is as follows -

170

MINING Co. v. CONSOLIDATED MINING CO.

[Sup. Ct.

"SECT. 6. And be it further enacted, that all the public lands in
the State of California, whether surveyed or unsurveyed, with -the
exceptions of sections sixteen and thirty-six, which shall be, and
hereby are, granted to the State for the purposes of public schools
in each township, and with the exception of lands appropriated
under the authority of this act, or reserved by competent authority,
and excepting, also, the lands claimed under any fbreign grant or
title, and the mineral lands, shall be subject to the pre-emption laws
of fourth September, eighteen hundredind fbrty-one, with all the
exceptions, conditions, and limitations therein, except as is herein
otherwise provided, and shall, after the plats thereof are returned
to the office of the register, be offered for sale, after six months' public notice in the State of the time and place of sale, under the laws,
rules, and regulations now governing such sales, or such as may be
hereafter prescribed."

Sect. 7 of the act may as well be read here, as it is important
to a true solution of the question under consideration.
"SEcT. 7 And be it further enacted, that where any settlement, by
the erection of a dwelling-house or the cultivation of any portion of
the land, shall be made upon the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections,
before the sane shall be surveyed, or where such sections may be
reserved for public uses or taken by private claims, other lands shall
be selected by the proper authorities of the State in lieu thereof,
agreeably to the provisions of the act of Congress approved on the
twentieth of Mlay, eighteen hundred and twenty-six, entitled ' An
Act to appropriate lands for the support of schools in certain townships and fractional townships, not before provided for,' and which
shall be sub.ject to approval by the Secretary of the Interior. And
no person shall make a settlement or location upon any tract or
parcel of land selected for a military post, or within one mile of
such post, or on any other lands reserved by competent authority,
nor shall any person obtain the benefits of this act by a settlement
or location on mineral lands."
The twelfth section grants to the State seventy-two sections
for the use of a seminary of learning, to be selected by the
governor or some one appointed by him, in legal subdivisions
of not less than a quarter-section, of any unsold, unoccupied,
and unappropriated public lands " Provided, however, that no
mineral lands, or lands reserved for any public purpose what-

Oct. 1880.]

MINING

00. V. CONSOLIDATED MINING 00.

171

ever, or lands to which any settler may be entitled under the
provisions of this act, shall be subject to such selection."
The thirteenth section also grants the State ten sections of
land for the purpose of erecting the public buildings of the
State, with the same proviso as the one to sect. 12.
The proviso to the third section is also relied upon as indicative
of the purpose of Congress in regard to the mineral lands of
California. That section contains the authority under which
the surveyor-general is to act in surveying the public lands in
that State, and after investing him with the powers conferred
on other surveyors-general, and prescribing some specific diiec.
tions for the survey of private land-claims, it is " Provided,
that none other than township lines shall be surveyed where
the lands are mineral, or are deemed unfit for cultivation, and
no allowance shall be made for such lines as are not actually
run and marked in the field, and were actually necessary to
be run."
It is strongly urged by plaintiff's counsel that the language
of the granting clause imports a grant 7n presentz, and that
wherever by any survey of the government thereafter made
the location of the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections of a township is ascertained, it establishes the title in the State from the
date of the statute, namely, March 3, 1853.
It is quite unnecessary to enter upon this question, which
has been before us in so many shapes, for, if it be conceded
that such would be the effect of the statute if there were no
words of exception in the grant, Congress has, in nearly every
case where the question has arisen, made such specific exceptions to the operation of the grant as to decide the matter ivthout resort to the rule of construction asserted by plaintiffs.
Take, for instance, railroad grants. Besides the more general
reservations from the grant, there is almost always found a
provision that where, by the location of the road, the sections
on each side of it, which would pass by the general terms of
the grant, are ascertained, those which have been pre-empted,
sold, or otherwise disposed of shall not so pass, but the grantee
may select other lands in lieu of those, which may be said in
this manner to be excepted out of the grant.
This is true of the statute under consideration, and .we may

172

MINING

CO. V. CONSOLIDATED MINING CO.

[Sup. Ct.

pass this branch of the argument by conceding that if the land
in controversy is subject to the grant the title relates to the
date of the act of Congress.
Defendants allege that it is not so subject to the grant, for
two reasons -

1. That it is mineral land, and that the grant of school lands
to the State does not cover any mineral land.
2. That by virtue of the seventh section such settlement and
cultivation had been made on the land before the survey was
made, as to take it out of the-grant, and remit the State to the
selection of other public land in lieu of this.
We will consider these in their order.
Very soon after the conquest of California and its cession to
the United States by Mexico, it was found to be rich li the
precious metals, and such was the rapid irflux of immigrants
from the Eastern States that the California population at the
time it was organized as a State in 1850 was largely composed
of mining camps and settlements engaged in mining these metals. As nearly all those mines were discovered on land the
title of which was vested by the treaty in the government of
the United States, it became important to deternine what course
the government would take with regard to this new source of
untold wealth. The Spanish government, to which this territory
and much other, i'ch in precious metals, had once belonged,
had instituted a system of laws concerning her mines by which
private enterprise was invited to develop them, and a revenue
secured at the same time to the crown, which nmade Spain for
a time the richest of the civilized governments of the world.
This system Mexico had inherited and perpetuated, and there
were many American statesmen who believed that with the
territory we had acquired the laws which governed the production of gold from the earth. Others believed that, whether this
were so or not, it would be a wise policy for the government to
secure to itself a fair proportion of the metal produced from its
own ground. But, while Congress delayed and hesitated to act,
the swarm of enterprising and industrious citizens filled the
country, and, before a State could be organized, had become its
dominating element, with wealth and numbers and claims which
demanded consideration.

Oct.

1880.]

MINING CO. V. CONSOLIDATED MINING CO.

173

Matters remained in this condition, with slight exception,
until July 26, 1866, when Congress passed a law by which title
to mineral land might be acquired from the government at
nominal prices, and by which the idea of a royalty on the
product of the mines was for ever relinquished. 14 Stat.
251.
During this period, however, from 1849 to 1866, the system
of the disposition of the public lands in general had to be introduced into California, and grants of land were made to the
State for various purposes, also to railroad companies, and in
all ihis the attention of Congress was necessarily turned to the
distinction between mineral lands and the ordinary agricultural
lands of the other Western States to which similar laws had
applied. This distinction is nowhere more plainly manifested
than in this act of 1853. As we said in Sherman v Buzek
(93 U. S. 209), the main purpose of that act was to provide
for the survey and sale of the public lands and for the right of
pre-emption to the settler on them, and there was embraced
in this clause of pre-emption the grant of the sixteenth and
thirty-sixth sections to the State for school purposes. In the
very sentence which contains this grant in parenthesis, and
while introducing the new principle, that the public lands
should be subject to the right of pre-emption, whether surveyed or unsurveyed, the mineral lands are excepted, in express
terms, from this right and from public sale.
We say that this introduced a new principle in pre-emption
law, for, except in a very few cases, no right of pre-emption had
before existed until the lands were surveyed, so that the preemptor could designate by the description of the congressional
survey the precise land to which his pre-emption attached.
But this right of pre-emption, on unsurveyed lands, was by
this statute to last but one year, and so careful was Congress
to protect mineral lands from sale and pre-emption, that, as
we have already shown by the proviso to sect. 3 of the act,
the surveyors were forbidden to extend their surveys over
them.
The effect of this'was as Congress intended it should be, that,
as no surveys could be made of mineral lands until further
order of Congress, there could be no sale, pre-emption, or other

174

MINING

CO. V. CONSOLIDATED MINING CO.

[Sup. Ct.

title acquired in mineral lands until Congress had provided by
law for their disposition. The purpose of these provisions was
undoubtedly to reserve these lands, so much more valuable than
ordinary public lands, and the nature of which suggested a
policy different from other lands in their disposal, for such
measures in this respect as the more matured wisdom of that
body, which by the Constitution is authorized to dispose of the
territory or other property of the United States, should afterwards devise.
It is a strong corroboration of this view that Congress, in
sect. 12 of this same statute giving the State seventy-two sections for a seminary of learning, declares that no mineral lands
shall be taken under the grant, and makes the same reservation of its mineral lands in the g'ant for the erection of public
buildings in the State.
We find a similar provision in the grant to the Pacific Railroad Companies, whose road it was known would pass through
some of these mineral regions. By the fourth section of the act
of 1864 (13 Stat. 356), it is declared that neither that act nor
the act of 1862 shall be held to include in the grant " any
government reservation or mineral lands or the improvements
of any bona fide settler on any lands returned or denominated
as mineral lands."
As we have already said, Congress, after keeping tns matter
in abeyance about sixteen years, enacted in 1866 a complete
system for the sale and other regulation of its mineral lands,
so totally different from that which governs other public lands
as to show that it could never have been intended to submit
them to the ordinary laws for disposing of the territory of the
United States.
Taking into consideration what is well known to have been
the hesitation and difficulty in the minds of Congressmen in
dealing with these mineral lands, the manner in which the
question was suddenly forced upon them, the uniform reservation of them from survey, from sale, from pre-emption, and
above all from grants, whether for railroads, public buildings,
or other purposes, and looking to the fact that from all the
grants made in this act they are reserved, one of which is for
school purposes besides the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections,

Oct. 1880.]

MINING CO. V. CONSOLIDATED MINING Co.

175

we are forced to the conclusion that Congress did not intend to
depart from its uniform policy in this respect in the grant of
those sections to the State.
It follows from the finding of the court and the undisputed
facts of the case, that the land m controversy being mineral
land, and well known to be so when the surveys of it were
made, did not pass to the State under the school-section grant.
It seems equally clear-to us that the land is excepted from
the grant by the terms of the seventh section of the act of
1853.
In the case of Sherman v Buck (supra) we have said in reference to this section that it was unnecessary to decide whether
the improvements found on the land when the survey was
made and the character of the person owning them should be
in all respects those which are prescribed by the general preemption law We are now satisfied that this section prescribes
its own rules on that subject, and that whenever, at the time
these sections are ascertained by the government survey, there
is either a dwelling-house or the cultivation of any portion of
the land, on which some one is residing and is asserting claim
to it, the title of the State does not vest, but the alternative right
to other land as indemnity does. It is only necessary to look
to what we have said in Sherman v Buck, of the fact that
Congress had in -view the rapid settlement of the country and
the long time which might elapse before, it could be known by
actual survey where these school sections would be found, to
see that a liberal construction must be given to the language
by which Congress expresses its purpose to protect these settlements, buildings, and cultivations, and that we have no right
to add other qualifying incidents to the exercise of this right
than those found in the statute. These are not the same required under the general pre-emption law, and we have no
authority to import the latter into the new statute.
Some of the expressions found in Sherman v Buick and in
Water & Miing Company v Bugbey (96 U. S. 165) are supposed by counsel to convey a different meaning, but in the use
of the words "pre-emption" and "pre-emptor," in reference to
thzs seetion of the statute, it was not designed to imply all that
was meant by those terms in the act of 1841 and its amenda-

176

MINING

Co. V. CONSOLIDATED MINING

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

tory adjuncts, but to convey the idea of a settlement and a
settler according to the terms of the statute under consideration. Nor is there anything in the principle announced in the
latter case, that where a settler abandons his claim to hold the
land against the State by virtue of such settlement or improvement, and acknowledges the title of the State by purchase, that
his improvement or settlement cannot be set up by a third
person to defeat the title of the State recognized by the United
States, which conflicts with what we have just said or with the
defendants' rights in the present case. Here the settlement,
building, and cultivation have been continuous for twenty
years, with constant assertion of claim. The same parties or
their privies are still claiming it. None of them have accepted
title under the State, or acknowledged its right to the land.
The government of the United States has given them a patent
founded on this very possession, use, and occupation. Nothing
in that opinion justifies the construction placed upon it by counsel, and the case is clearly inapplicable to the one before us.
We are of opinion that the settlement, building, and cultivation found as facts by the Circuit Court bring the case within
the provisions of the seventh section of the act of 1853, and
necessarily render void the title asserted under the State by
plaintiff.
It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court is right,
and it is accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FiELD did not take any part in deciding this

case.

