Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. CHOUTEAU.

propositions, what has been placed in the other, as a counterpoise? Our answer is, certainly nothing of such weight, in
our judgment, as to require any special reply
The numerous citations from the writings of foreign political
economists, made by the plaintiff in error, are sufficiently answered by Hamilton in his brief, before referred to.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES V. CHOUTEAU.
1. In an action by the United States upon a bond executed by A., a distiller,
and his sureties, the breaches of the condition assigned in the declaration or complaint were, first, that by omitting to make certain entries in
a book which he, by sect. 3303, Rev. Stat., was required to keep, he was
enabled to defraud, and did defraud, the United States of the tax imposed by law upon the spirits produced at his distillery and, second, that
in violation of sect. 3296 he had removed spirits produced at his distillery
to a place other than the distillery warehouse, without the tax thereon
having been first paid. To the first assignment the defendants answered
by denying its allegations, and averring that whatever fraud was committed was effected through other means than those charged. To the
second they answered, that before the suit was brought two bills of indictment, for the same removals of spirits now complained of, were found
against A., one containing counts upon said section and upon sections
3281 and 5440, and that upon the recommendation of the Attorney-General and the advice of the Secretary of the Treasury the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue accepted from him a specified sum, in a compromise,
satisfaction, and settlement of the indictments, which were thereupon dismissed, and abandoned by the United States. Upon a demurrer to the
answer, - Held, that the answer was a bar to the action.
2. Qucere, whether the only mode for the recovery of the penalty prescribed by
sect. 3296 is not by indictment.

EnRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
This is an action upon a bond of a distiller, against the principal and sureties, and is founded upon sects. 3803 and 3296
of the Revised Statutes. The bond is in the penal sum of
825,000, and, after reciting that the principal, Joseph G.
Chouteau, intends, after the first day of May, 1874, to be

UNITED STATES V. CHOUTEAU.

[Sup. Ct.

engaged in the business of a distiller within the first collection
district of Missouri, to wit, at Grand Avenue and Main Street,
in the city of St. Lotus, in that State, it is conditioned, among
other things, that he "shall in all respects faithfully comply
-with all the provisions of law in relation to the duties and
business of distillers, and shall pay all penalties incurred or
fines imposed on him for a violation of any of the said provisions."
Sect. 3303 is as follows "Every person who makes or distils spirits, or owns any still,
boiler, or other vessel used for the purpose of distilling spirits, or
who has such still, boiler, or other vessel so used under his superintendence, either as agent or owner, or who uses any such still, boiler,
or other vessel, shall from day to day make, or cause to be made,
in a book or books, to be kept by him in such form as the Cominimssioner of Internal Revenue may prescribe, a true and exact entry of
the kind of materials, and the quantity in pounds, bushels, or gallons, purchased by him for the production of spirits, from whom
and when purchased, and by what conveyance delivered at said
distillery, the amount paid therefor, the kind and quantity of fuel
purchased for use in the distillery, and from whom purchased, the
amount paid for ice or water for use in the distillery, the repairs
placed on said distillery or distilling-apparatus, the cost thereof,
and by whom and when made, and of the name and residence
of each person employed in or about the distillery, and in what
capacity employed. And in another book he shall make like entry
of the quantity of grain or other material used for the production
of spirits, the time of day when any yeast or other composition is
put into any mash or beer for the purpose of exciting fermentation,
the quantity of mash in each tub, designating the same by the
number of the tub, the number of dry inches, that is to say, the
number of inches between the top of each tub and the surfhce of
the mash or beer therein at the time of yeasting, the gravity and
temperature of the beer at the time of yeasting, and on every day
thereafter its quantity, gravity, and temperature at the hour of
twelve meridian, also, of the time when any fermenting-tub is
emptied of ripe mash or beer, the number of gallons of spirits distilled, the number of gallons placed in the warehouse, and the proof
thereof, the number of gallons sold or removed, with the proof
thereof, and the name, place of business, and residence of the person
to whom sold."

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED

Sect. 3296 is as follows

STATES V. OHOUTEAU.
-

"1Whenever any person removes, or aids or abets in the removal
of, any distilled spirits on which the tax has not been paid, to a
place other than the distillery warehouse provided by law, or conceals, or aids in the concealment of, any spirits so removed, or
removes, or aids or abets in the removal of, any distilled spirits
fiom any distillery warehouse, or other warehouse for distilled
spirits, autlorized by law, in any manner other than is provided
by 'law, or conceals, or aids ii the concealment of, any spirits so
removed, he shall be liable to a penalty of double the tax imposed
on such distilled spirits so removed or concealed, and shall be fined
not less than two hundred dollars, nor more than five thousand
dollars, and imprisoned not less than three months, nor more than
three years."
The complaint in the action, or petition as it is termed, contains eighty-four assignments of breaches of the conditions of
the bond, forty-two of which, constituting the odd numbers,
are founded upon sect. 3308, and forty-two, constituting the
even numbers, are founded upon sect. 8296. The difference in
the brea6hes assigned in each class is in respect to the day
on which the act constituting the breach is alleged to have
been done, commencing on the second day of May, and ending on the fifteenth day of August, 1874. The same breach of
duty is charged to have been committed on forty-two different
I
days.
The breach stated in each of the assignments designated by
odd numbers is, that the distiller omitted to make, in a book
he was required by law to 'keep, a true and exact entry of
the kind and quantity of materials used by him in the production of distilled spirits, that he produced from the grain
used a large quantity of spirits, and "that by means of the
said omission to make said entry in said book as aforesaid"
he "was enabled to defraud and did defraud the plaintiff
out of the internal revenue tax then and there imposed by
law on spirits, whereby the plaintiff is damaged in the sum
of 82,100."
To this breach in the various assignments the defendants
answer, and deny that by reason of the alleged omission of the
distiller to make proper entries in the distiller's book men-

606

UNITED STATES V. OHOUTEAU.

[Sup. Ct.

tioned he was enabled to defraud and did defraud the United
States of the tax on distilled spirits produced at his distillery,
or any part of the tax, and state that, prior to any of the
acts complaned of, the distiller combined, confederated, and
conspired with certain designated revenue officers and agents.
and other distillers and rectifiers, to defraud the United States
of the tax on distilled spirits produced at various distilleries
within the first collection district of Missouri, that, in furtherance of this conspiracy and to accomplish its purpose, the parties
-concerned in it committed various violations of the revenue
laws, and among other things they removed and aided in the
removal of distilled spirits from the distilleries without having
first paid the tax on them, they reused upon packages paid
and warehouse stamps which had been previously used, they
gave and received bribes, and made and connived at making
false and fraudulent reports to the collector of internal revenue
within the district of the quantities of spirits produced upon
which taxes had become due, that the distiller, by reason of
his participation in this conspiracy, was enabled, if at all, to
defraud the United States of the tax on distilled spirits produced at his distillery within the period covered by his bond,
that the internal revenue officers charged with the execution
and enforcement of the internal revenue laws had no occasion
to have recourse to the distiller's book and the store-keeper's
record kept at the distillery, and did not have recourse to them,
or examine them to obtain information touching the quantities
of griin used and the number of gallons produced at the distillery, and that it was by reason of the organization and
execution of this conspiracy, irrespective of the omission to
make the entries mentioned, that the conspirators were enabled
to defraud the United States of the tax on spirits produced at
the distillery
The breach stated in each of the assignments designated by
even numbers is, that the distiller removed spirits produced at
his distillery to a place other than the distillery warehouse,
without the internal revenue tax imposed thereon being first
paid, thereby incurring a penalty of $2,800, which sum he has
not paid.
To this breach in: the various assignments the defendants

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. CHOUTEAU.

answer that the United States ought not to maintain its
action for the penalty denounced in sect. 3296, for, at the
November Term, 1875, in the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Missouri, two bills of indictment were found against said Chouteau, the distiller, one
of which contained counts founded upon that section, alleging the removal by him, and his aiding and conniving at the
removal, of distilled spirits from his distillery to a place unknown, upon which spirits the revenue tax was imposed and
had not been paid, the other counts being founded upon sects.
3281 and 5440 of the Revised Statutes, that afterwards, with
the advice and consent of the Secretary of the Treasury and
upon the recommendation of the Attorney-General, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue accepted from the distiller
$1,000 in full satisfaction, compromise, and settlement of the
indictment and prosecutions, which were thereupon dismissed
and abandoned.
And the defendants further answering, state "that the
alleged removals of distilled spirits set forth in the various
assignments of breaches now answered are the same removals
recited in the said indictment, that all of, the said removals of
spirits complained of in plaintiff's petition might have been
established, if said allegations be true, under the said indictments, either upon those counts based upon sect. 3296, or that
count based upon sect. 3281, that all of the evidence which
would be necessary to establish, and competent under the
various assignments of breaches in plaintiff's petition, would
also be competent under and would tend to establish the allegations of said indictments, that the various assignments of
breaches in plaintiff's petition relate to the same subject-matter
and are based upon the same transaction as the various allegations in said indictments contained, so far as they relate to
alleged offences under sects. 3296 and 3281 and 5440, and that
at the time when the said indictments were presented to said
grand jury, and at the time when the said indictments were
considered by said grand jury, all of the facts which would be
competent to sustain the allegations of plaintiff's petition were
known to, and within the possession of, the representative of
the United States."

UNITED STATES V. OHOUTEAU.

[Sup. Ct.

The United States demurred to the answer. The demurrer was overruled, and judgment entered thereon in favor of
the defendants. The case was then removed here by writ
of error.
The Solicitor- Generalfor the plaintiff in error.
No counsel appeared for the defendants in error.
MR. JUsTIcE, FIELD, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
As seen by the statement of the case, each breach of the
condition of the bond in suit, of the class designated by odd
numbers, consists in the omission of the distiller to make the
required entries in the book provided in sect. 3303. The
petition alleges that, by "means of the said omission," the
distiller was enabled to defraud and did defraud the United
States of the tax imposed by law upon the spirits produced
at his distillery
The answer denies this allegation, and
avers that whatever fraud was committed upon the United
States was effected through other means. The demurrer admits that averment to be true, and the question is thus presented whether a party seeking damages for a specified breach
of duty is entitled to judgment in his favor, when admitting
on the record that whatever damages he may have sustained
resulted from other causes.
The case is not brought for any tax alleged to be due to the
United States, which they would be entitled to recover, whatever the cause of its non-payment. In such a case it would be
of no consequence whether the cause assigned for the default
of the party was the true one or not, the obligation to the
government would be the same. Here a specific omission of
duty on the part of the distiller is alleged, for which it is
sought to charge both him and his sureties on their bond.
Their liability is only to the extent of the damages sustained.
If none resulted to the United States from the omission
stated, none can be recovered either against him or his sureties. The law does not affix any specific penalty for the
omission. If, therefore, the allegations of the petition were
simply traversed, the government would be compelled to prove,
not only the omission complained of, but that by means of

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. CaOUTEAU.

it the tax on the spirits produced was lost, which constitutes
the damages alleged. It would not be sufficient to show that
by other omissions of duty the government was thus defrauded,
for that would be to change the entire ground of the action,
the specific gravamen of the complaint.
Now, the demurrer admits that the ground of complaintthe specific breach of duty stated- did not cause the damages charged, but that whatever damages were sustained by
the United States were effected by other means. Therefore
the action, so far as damages are claimed for the particular
omission of duty mentioned, must fail.
It is true that the breaches of duty, which are stated by the
defendants in their answer as the means by which the United
States were defrauded, are a series of stupendous frauds, for
which the guilty parties deserve severe punishment, still they
were none the less available as a defence to an action charging
to other causes the damages which they produced. It is certainly one way of defending against the charge of a wrongful
act for which damages are sought, to show that, notwithstanding the wrong committed, the damages resulted from other
causes, however objectionable a pleading might be with averments to that effect instead of a distinct traverse of the allegations of the complaint. If, for example, a party shoula charge
another with inflicting upon his person a wound by which he
lost an arm, it would be a good defence to show that the loss
resulted from unskilful medical treatment or neglect and not
from the wound inflicted. So here, it is enough for the sureties to show that the loss to the government was produced by
other means than the particular breach of duty by their prncipal, of which the government complains. It is of no consequence to them, so far as the present action is concerned, how
many other sins of omission or commission he may have committed, if they can show that the particular damage claimed
was not the result of the one charged.
As to the breaches of duty in the assignments of the class
designated by even numbers, we are of opinion that the compromise with the government pleaded is a complete defence
against a recovery of the penalty claimed. Each breach alleged consists in the removal by the distiller of spirits provoL. xiI.
89

IJNITED

STATES V. CHOUTEAU.

[Sup. Ct.

duced at his distillery to a place other than the distillery
warehouse, without first paying the tax imposed thereon.
The penalty prescribed for this offence was intended as part
punishment for it, and may be enforced, equally as the additional fine an'd imprisonment, by criminal prosecution. It was
not intended in any sense as a substitute for the tax required,
or as any abatement of it when recovered. This is evident
from the fact that it may be applied to those who have aided
or abetted in the removal, whether the distiller or one having no interest in the spirits. So, too, the payment of the
tax may be made after the removal, and yet the penalty not
be discharged, it could still be imposed upon the offending
party
It may be questioned whether the only mode for a recovery
of the penalty is not by indictment, but assuming that it may
be recovered in a civil action, the compromise pleaded covers
the penalties here claimed. Two indictments have been found
against the distiller, one of which contains counts for the specific offences, which constitute the whole ground and cause of
the present action. Under the authority of an act of Congress,
a compromise with the government was effected, by which a
specific sum was paid by him, and received by the government, "in full satisfaction, compromise, and settlement of said
indictments and prosecutions," which were accordingly dismissed and abandoned. That compromise necessarily covered
the causes or grounds of the prosecutions, and consequently
released the party from liability for the offences charged and
any further punishment for them. The answer avers that the
removals of distilled spirits set forth in the assignment of
breaches of the condition of the bond are the same removals
recited in the indictments, and that all the evidence necessary
to establish the breaches assigned would have been necessary
and competent under the indictments. The two proceedings,
the civil action and the criminal prosecution, so far as they
relate to offences under sect. 3296, are based upon the same
transactions.
The question, therefore, is presented whether sureties on a
distiller's bond shall be subjected to the penalty attached to
the commission of an offence, when the principal has effected

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. CIHOUTEAU.

a full and complete compromise with the government, under
the sanction of an act of Congress, of prosecutions based
upon the same offence and designed to secure the same penalty
Admitting that the penalty may be recovered in a civil
action, as well' as by a criminal prosecution, it is still as a
punishment for the infraction of the law The term " penalty " involves the idea of punishment, and its character is
not changed by the mode in which it is inflicted, whether
by a civil action or a criminal prosecution. The compromise
pleaded must operate for the protection of the distiller against
subsequent proceedings as fully as a former conviction or acquittal. He has been punished in the amount paid upon the
settlement for the offence with which he was charged, and
that should end the present action, according to the principle
on which a former acquittal or conviction may be invoked to
protect against a second punishment for the same offence.
To hold otherwise would be to sacrifice a great principle to
the mere form of procedure, and to render settlements with the
government delusive and useless.
Whilst there has been no conviction or judgment in the
criminal proceedings against the distiller here, the compromise must on principle have the same effect. The government through its appropriate officers has indicated, under the
authority of an act of Congress, the punishment with which it
will be satisfied. The offending party. has responded to the
indication and satisfied the government. It would, therefore,
be at variance with right and justice to exact in a new form
of action the same penalty For, as it was justly said by this
court in K s arte Lange, speaking through Mr. Justice Miller,
" If there is anything settled in the jurisprudence of England
and America, it is that no man can be twice lawfully punished
for the same offence. And, though there have been nice questions in the application of this rule to cases in which the act
charged was such as to come within the definition of more
than one statutory offence, or to bring the party within the
jurisdiction of more than one court, there has never been any
doubt of its entire and complete protection of the party where
a second punishment is proposed in the same court, on the

CRAMIER V. ARTHUR.

[Sup. Ct.

same facts, for the same statutory offence. The principle finds
expression in more than one form in the maxims of the coinmon law" 18 Wall. 163, 168.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTE. -In
United States v. Ulrici, error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Missouri, which was submitted at the same
time, MRi.JusTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves substantially the same questions considered in United States
v. Chonteau. Here the principal on the bond in suit pleaded guilty to the indictments found against him, and was fined $1,000 and imprisoned for one day. The
punishment inflicted was for offences which are set forth in the petition in tins
action as breaches of the condition of the bond. Tls difference in the two cases
does not affect the principle upon which the first was decided. Upon its authority the judgment is
Affirmed.

CRAMER

v.

ARTHUR.

1. The valuation of foreign standard coins, which the act of March 3, 1873,
c. 268 (17 Stat. 602 Rev. Stat., sect. 3564), requires the director of the
mint to estimate annually, and the Secretary of the Treasury to proclaim
on the first day of January, is as binding on collectors of customs and importers, as if declared by statute; and evidence is not receivable to show
that it is inaccurate. The Collector v. Richards (23 Wall. 246) cited and
reaffirmed.
2. Pursuant to sect. 2903 of the Revised Statutes, providing for the case of invoices made out in a depreciated currency issued and circulated under
authority of any foreign government, regulations were established declaring
that where the standard value of a foreign currency has been proclaimed
by the Secretary of the Treasury in the manner provided by law, such
value shall control in estimating customs duties, unless collectors have been
otherwise instructed, or unless a depreciation of the value of that currency
"expressed in an invoice from the standard of that currency, shall be shown
by consular certificate thereto attached." Held, that the proclamation and
certificate are conclusive.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr Lewzs Sanders for the plaintiff in error.
Hr Assistant Attorney- aeneral Smith, contra.

