Oc.1880.]

MENASHA V. HAZARD.

MENASHA V. HAZARD.
1. A town in Wisconsin, being thereunto authorized by law, subscribed for
stock in a railroad company, and issued its bonds in payment therefor, each
reciting that it "shall be valid only when it is thereon duly certified that
the conditions upon which it was voted, issued, and deposited by said town
have been performed." Suit was brought on the bonds by a party who in
good faith purchased them before they matured. Held, that the certificate
on the bonds (infra, p. 87) is in proper form, estbpping the town from
denying their validity, and placing them in a condition to be put on the
market as commercial paper.
2. Where, before the subscription and bonds were voted, the company was
authorized to consolidate with other companies constructing connecting
lines, and such consolidation was effected,- Held, that the issue of the
bonds to the consolidated company was lawful.
'3. County of Scotland v. Thomas (94 U. S. 682) and Wilson v.'Salamanca (99 id. 499)
approved.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
This was an action by Rowland G. Hazard against the town
of Menasha and the city of Menasha, upon interest coupons
detached from bonds of the town of Menasha, payable to the
Wisconsin Central Railroad Company or bearer. On the trial
of the issues it appeared
I. That the Portage, Winnebago, and Superior Railroad Company made to said town the following proposition -

"The Portage, Winnebago, and Superior Railroad Company of
the State of Wisconsin, a corporation of said State authorized to
construct and operate a railroad with one or more tracks, from
Doty's Island, situated in the towns of Neenah and Menasha, in
the county of Winnebago, northwesterly, via the towns of Weyauwega, Waipaca, Amherst, and Stevens Point, to Bayfield, and
thence to Superior on Lake Superior, and requiring the aid of the
said towns of Menasha and Neenah, each in the sum of $50,000,
in the construction of that portion of road which lies between said
Doty's Island and the Wolf River, and being thereto authorized
by chapter 126 of the General Laws of 1869, entitled 'An Act to
authorize certain counties, towns, cities, and villages to aid in the
construction of the land-grant railroad from Portage City and
from Doty's Island to Lake Superior,' submits to the said town of
Menasha the following proposition, to wit
VOL. xii.

6

82

MKENASHA V. HAZARD.

[Sup. Ct.

ccFirst, That in consideration of the construction by said company of a single-track railroad from block 3 in Jones's Plat in the
said town of Neenah, Doty's Island, to Wolf River, and of five
hundred full paid shares of the capital stock of said company of
$100 each, the said town of Menasha shall pay to said company or
its assigns the sum of $50,000, at the time and in the manner hereinafter provided.
" Second, That said town of Menasha shall secure to this company the payment of the said sum of $50,000 in its corporate
bonds to be issued in that amount, to run twenty years from the
date of issue, with interest thereon at the rate of seven per cent,
payable semi-annually, principal and interest payable in gold at the
National Bank of Commerce of the city of New York, that the
said bonds, besides the usual conditions, shall provide that the same
and the coupons or interest warrants thereon shall, when due, be
receivable for taxes to be collected in said town, and that there
shall be annually levied upon the property in said town a tax sufficient to pay the interest upon said bonds, and to raise a sinking
fund to pay the principal thereof when the same shall become due,
and payable in the manner provided by said chapter 126 of the
General Laws of 1869, and shall also further provide that said bonds
shall be valid only when it is thereon duly certified that the conditions upon which they were voted, issued, and deposited by said
town have been performed. The said bonds and coupon or interest warrants attached shall be engraved or printed in the usual
form and style, and in such denominations (not less than one nor
more than ten hundred dollars) as sball be approved by this company, and the cost thereof shall be paid by the treasurer, on the
order of the chairman of said town.
" Third, That the proper officers of said town shall issue said
bonds as required by law-, and on notice being received by the
chairman of the board of supervisors of said town from the said
National Bank of Commerce of New York that this .company has
deposited therein to the credit of said town the said five hundred
full paid shares of its capital stock, he shall deposit, or cause to be
deposited, in said bank all of the said bonds, with instructions to
said bank or its officers to 'hold the same on deposit in trust for
said town, until such tne as there shall be filed in said bank a
properly authenticated certificate signed by the chief officer of this
company and the chairman of the board of supervisors of said
town, or the secretary of state of this State, that the iron has been
laid upon the track of road, and cars have been run over the same

Oct. 1880.]

MENASHA

v. HAZARD.

through from the depot on Doty's Island, or in said town, to Wolf
River, when the said bonds shall become the absolute property
of and be held by said bank, subject to the order of this eompany
or its assigns, and which certificate shall authorize and require the
president of said bank to certify upon the.back of each of said
bonds that the conditions upon which the said bonds were voted,
issued, and deposited by said town have been performed, and in
case this company fail to comply with the said conditions the said
bonds shall be returned to said town on demand of the authorities
thereof.
"Pourth, That, in consideration of the acceptance of this proposition and the fulfilment of the terms thereof by the said town,
this company will, without unnecessary delay, issue for deposit
to the credit of said town in the said National Bank of Commerce
of New York five hundred full paid shares (of 8100 each) of its
capital stock, which is to be delivered to said town at the time of
the delivery of said bonds to this company, and that on the acceptance of this proposition, and as soon as the right of way and
depot grounds have been secured by this company, this company
will commence the construction of the track of said portion of its
road, and will have the same completed and the iron laid thereon
and cars run over the same within one year from the time the
bonds of said town have been issued and deposited in said bank as
aforesaid Provded, however, that the like propositions submitted by this company to the town of Neenah shall be accepted
and its conditions fulfilled by said town.
".ifth, In the event the said town of Neenah fail to accept
and fulfil the terms of said proposition so as aforesaid submitted
to it, this company further proposes to said town of Menasha that
if the required additional sum of $50,000 shall be furnished to this
company by individual subscription to stock in like amount, and
satisfactorily secured to be paid, the dep6t of this company shall be
located and its Toad constructed therefrom at such place in said
town and on such route as may be agreed upon between this company and the authorities of said town, and under the foregoing
proposition as hereby qualified.
"In witness whereof, the Portage, Winnebago, and Superior Railroad Company has caused these presents to be signed by its president and sealed with its seal this tenth day of May, A.D. 1870.

"1GEo.

REED,

"President P., W., 4- S. R. R. Co."

MENASHA

V. HAZARD.

[Sup. Ct.

II. That on the 4th of June, 1870, an election was held in
said town as provided in said act, and a majority of the votes
cast in favor of the railroad proposition.
IIL That said proposition was published and voted upon as
required by said act, except the third paragraph, which was
published in the words following- " Third, That the proper officers of said town shall issue said
bonds as required by law, and, on notice being received by the
chairman of the board of supervisors of said town from the said
National Bank of Commerce of New York that this company has
deposited therein to the credit of said town the said five hundred
full paid shares of its capital stock, he shall deposit, or cause to be
deposited, in said bank all of the said bonds, with instructions to
said bank or its officers to hold the same on deposit in trust for said
town until such time as there shall be filed in said bank a properly
authenticated certificate signed by the chief officers of this company
and the board of supervisors of said town, or the secretary of state
of this State, that the iron has been laid upon the track of road
and cars have been run over the same through from the depot, on
Doty's Island, or in said town, to the Wolf River, when the said
bonds shall become the absolute property of and be held by said
bank, subject to the order of this company or its assigns, and which
certificate shall authorize and require the president of said bank to
certifv upon the back of each of said bonds that the conditions upon
which the said bonds were voted, issued, and deposited by said town
have been performed, and in case this company fail to comply with
the said conditions, the said bonds shall be returned to said town
on demand of the authorities thereof."
IV That the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company deposited with said bank for said town five hundred shares of its
common capital stock.
V That on or about the 1st of June, 1871, the chairman
of the board of supervisors of said town, with the town clerk,
made fifty coupon bonds of said town, that thereupon a suit
was instituted in the Circuit Court of the county of Winnebago by one Lawson, a tax-payer in said town, on behalf of
himself and all other tax-payers, to enjoin the issue of said
bonds. An injunction was allowed, and served upon the officers of said town, restraining the issue of said particular fifty
bonds, but no others under said act, which injunction is still

Oct;. 1880.]
in force.

OMENASHA V. HAZARD.

Upon service of such injunction, such issue of bonds,

was burned.
VI. That on the twenty-fifth day of October, 1871, said
chairman and said clerk executed and delivered to the National
Bank of Commerce a series of fifty coupon bonds of said town,
of which the following is a copy "$1,000.]
"No. 16.]

TOWN OF MENASHA.
STATE

OF WISCONSIN.

[$1,000.
[No. 16.

" The town of Menasha, in the county of Winnebago and State
of Wisconsin, acknowledges itself indebted in the sum of $1,000
lawful coin of the United States of America, which sum the said
town of Menasha promises to pay to the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company, or to the bearer hereof, at the National Bank of
Commerce ia the city of New York, in twenty years from the first
day of June, 1871, with interest at the rate of seven per centum,
payable semi-annually at said bank, upon the presentation and delivery of the several coupons hereto annexed as they respectively
become due, the principal and interest payable in gold, and to the
payment of which, in the manner aforesaid, the faith and revenues
of said town are hereby irrevocably pledged.
"This bond and the coupons or interest warrants thereon shall,
when due, be receivable for taxes to be collected in said town, and
there shall be annually levied upon the property in said town a tax
sufficient to pay the interest upon this bond and to raise a sinking
fund to pay the principal when the same shall become due and payable in the manner provided by chapter 126 of the General Laws of
1869 of said State, and this bond shall be valid only when it is
thereon duly certified that it has been duly certified that the conditions upon which it was voted, issued, and deposited by said town
have been performed.
"This bond is one of a series amounting in the aggregate 'to
$50,000, and is issued in pursuance of a vote of the legal voters
of said town on the fourth day of June, 1870, under and by
virtue of an act of the legislature of the State of Wisconsin, entitled ' An Act to authorize certain counties, towns, cities, and villages to aid in the construction of the land-grant railroad from
Portage City and from Doty's Island to Lake Superio:,' approved
March 9, 1869, and in pursuance of an act of the legislature of
said State, approved Feb. 4, A.D. 1871, entitled 'An Act to
change the name of the Portage, Winnebago, and Superior Rail-

MENASHA

V. HAZARD.

[Sup. Ct.

road Company,' and of an act of the same legislature, approved
March 1, A.D. 1871, amendatory of said chapter 126 of the General Laws of 1869 of Wisconsin.
" In witness whereof, the chairman of the board of supervisors
and town clerk of said town have hereunto set their hands, this first
day of June, 1871.
"F ScOrNELLEw,

{

Attest
TOWN OF 31ENASHA, WISCONSIN,

"

Chairmanof the Board of Supermsors.
"D. J.R

AN, Clerk."

WINNEBAGO COUNTY, SEAL.

To which bonds interest coupons in form like those sued on
were annexed.
VII. That afterwards the chairman of the board of supervisors of said town and the president of the Wisconsin Central
Railroad Company signed and delivered to said bank a joint
certificate, which was afterwards authenticated by notarial certificates, of which the following is a copy "To

the .President of the ._MationalBank of Commerce of .New
Y-ork
"The undersigned, Gardner Colby president of the Wisconsin

Central Railroad Company, formerly the Portage, Winnebago, and
Superior Railroad, and Fr. Schnellen, chairman of the board of supervisors of the town of Mvenasha, Winnebago County, Wisconsin,
do hereby certify that the iron has been laid on the track of road
of said company from block No. 3 in Jones's plat, in the town of
Neenah, Doty Island, to Wolf River, and that the cars have been
run over the same daily for more than two weeks past from the
depot on Doty's Island to said Wolf River, and that therefore,
according to the terms of the proposition (a copy of which is
hereto annexed), the said company are entitled to the transfer
of the bonds of said town deposited with you.
"Dated at Menasha, Oct. 25, 1871.
"WIscoNsIN CENTRAL R. R. Co.,
"By GARDNER COLBY, President.
[SEAL.]
"STATE

"FREDERICK SCHNELLEN,
" Chairman of theTown of Menasha.
OF WISCONSIN,

" County of Waupaca, Town of Weyauwega, ss
"I, Albert V Balch, a commissioner of deeds for the State of
New York, residing in the town of Weyauwega aforesaid, do hereby

Oct. 1880.]

MENASHA V. HAZARD.

certify that Frederick Schnellen is the chairman of the board of
supervisors of the town of Menasha, in the State of Wisconsin, and
that his signature to the foregoing certificate is in his own hand
and is genuine, as he has this day before me acknowledged.
"In testimony whereof, I have signed my name and affixed my
official seal this twenty-fourth day of February, A.D. 1872.
"ALBERT V BAtcH,
[sEAL.]
"Commzsszoner of Deedsfor theState of New York.
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS,

" County of Suffolk, City of Boston, ss:
"On this twenty-ninth day of February, A.D. 1872, the abovenamed Gardner Colby, who is personally known to me to be the
president of the said railroad company, made oath that the abovewritten certificate by him signed is true, and that the seal affixed
thereto is the seal of said company and was so affixed by its
authority
"Witness my hand and official seal, at the city of Boston, the
day and year aforesaid.
"1SSA 'L S. CURTIS, -otary Public."
E1.]
VIII. That on the fifteenth day of March, 1872, the said
bank sent said certificate of stock to the chairman of the
board of supervisors of said town, and on the same day delivered said bonds to said Wisconsin Central Railroad Company
IX. That on the seventeenth day of April, 1872, the president of the said bank affixed to said bonds his certificate, in
the words following the President of the lrational Bank of Commerce of New
York
"The undersigned, Gardner Colby, president of the Wisconsin
Central Railroad Company, formerly the Portage, Winnebago, and
Superior Railroad, and Fr. Schnellen, chairman of the board of supervisors of the town of Menasha, Winnebago County, Wisconsin, do
hereby certify that the iron has been laid on the track of road
of said company from block No. 3, in Jones's plat, in the town of
Neenah, Doty's Island, to Wolf River, and that the cars have been
run over the same daily for more than two weeks past from the
depot on Doty's Island to said Wolf River. And that therefore,
according to the terms of the proposition (a copy of which is hereto
"To

MENASHA

V. HAZARD.

[Sup. Ct.

annexed), the said company are entitled to the transfer of the bonds
of said town deposited with you.
"Dated at Menasha, Oct. 25, 1871.
"WISCONsIN CENTRAL R. R. Co.,
[sEmu.]
"By GARDNER COLBY, President.
"FREDERICK SdtNELLEN,
(Signed)
"Chairman of the Town of Menasha.
"STATE

OF WIscoNsIN,

" County of Waupaca, Town of TFeyauwega, ss
"I, Albert V Balch, a commissioner of deeds for the State of
New York, residing in the town of Weyauwega aforesaid, do hereby
certify that Frederick Schnellen is the chairman of the board of
supervisors of the town of Menasha, in the State of Wisconsin, and
that his signature to the foregoing certificate is in his own hand
and is genuine, as he has this day before me acknowledged.
"In testimony whereof, I have signed my name and affixed my
official seal this twenty-fourth day of February, A.D. 1872.
[SEAL.]

"C

M -NWEALTH

"ALBERT V BALCH,
"Comminssoner of Deeds for the State of New York.
OF MASSACUSETTS,

" County of Suffolk, City of Boston, ss
"On this twenty-ninth day of February, A.D. 1872, the abovenamed Gardner Colby, who is personally known to me, and known
to me to be the president of thIe said railroad company, made
oath that the above-written certificate by him signed is true, and
that the seal affixed thereto is the seal of said company, and was
so affixed by its authority
"Witness my hand and official seal, at the city of Boston, the
day and year aforesaid.
" SAif' S. CURTIs, Notary Public.
[SEAL.]
" I hereby certify that I have received certificates of which the
above are copies, which certificates are on file in this bank.
"April 17, 1872.
"ROBERT LENNox KENNEDY,

"President of the Aational Bank of Commerce in New York."

X. That in November, 1872, the said town levied a tax to
pay the interest upon said bonds, and collected about twothirds of it, and paid it over to the company, when the further
collection of said tax was enjoined in the suit of said Lawson.

Oct. 1880.]

MENASHA

v. HAZARD.

XI. That Lake Butte des Morts, a narrow lake about two
thousand feet wide, lies between said block 3 in Jones's plat
and the Wolf River, across which the route of said Wisconsin
Central Railroad runs, that said company, instead of constructing a bridge of its own for its road across said lake, made an
agreement with the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company to cross said lake upon that company's bridge, of which
agreement the following is a copy "This agreement, made and entered into this first day of May,
1871, by and between the Chicago and Northwestern Railway
Company, party of the first part, and "the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company, party of the second part, witnesseth
"The party of the first part, for and in consideration of the covenants and agreements herein contained on the part of the party
of the second part, doth hereby covenant and agree to and with
the said party of the second part, that the said party of the
second part, its successors and assigns, shall and may have the use
of and right to operate for railroad purposes, in common with
the said party of the first part, the bridge across Lake Butte
des Morts near Doty's Island, in Wisconsin, and the right of way
and use Qf ties across its land on the north side of said lake for a
sufficient distance to enable said second party to make its connections therewith, also, the right of way and use of its ties from the
south end of the bridge, including the bridge across the river
to its depot grounds at Neenah Station, in Wisconsin, subject,
however, to the regulations and stipulatiqns hereinafter contained.
"The said party of the second part, in consideration of the
premises, hereby covenants and agrees-to lay down and maintain
a track, with the necessary switches and frogs, at its own expense
and for its own use" fiom the point of intersection of its own right
of way with that of the party of the first part through the whole
line which it may use in common with the said- party of the first
part, and to pay to the said party of the first part monthly, at the
end of each and every month during the continuance of this agreement, one-half of the expense of maintaining and keeping in repair
the line so used in common as aforesaid (including the bridges, roadbed, and ties, as well as the expense of the necessary signal-men,
except, however, the ironf which each of said parties shall furnish
and maintain for its own use), a statement of which expenses of
maintaining said line, other than maintenance of the rails, shall be
A.D.

MENASHA

V. HAZARD.

[Sup. Ct.

furnished to said second party by said party of the first part
monthly, at the end of each and every month during the continuance hereof.
"It is further mutually covenanted and agreed by and between
the parties hereto that the payment of said one-half of the aforesaid
expenses by said party of the second part shall be taken and accepted by the said first party in lieu of and as rental for the use of
the line aforesaid and in full satisfiaction thereof, and that said line,
for the distance, aforesaid, shall be used in common by the said
parties, and that a signal shall be erected and maintained at Joint
expense, and no train of either companv shall come upon the said
common track until a signal for that purpose has been given, and
that working trains of either company shall give way to all other
trains, and freight trains to passenger trains, but if trains of
both companies of the same class shall come at the same time, the
train of the party of the first part shall have preference, and the
management, repairs, and maintenance of said common track and
line shall be and remain in charge of said first party
"It is further mutually agreed that this agreement shall continue and remain in force for the period of twenty years hereafter
next ensuing, but either party shall have the right to terminate the
same upon giving to the party one year's notice in writing of its
intention to terminate the same, but such notice shall not be given
earlier than the first day of July, 1876.
"In witness whereof, the said party of the first part has caused
these presents to be subscribed by its president or vice-president,
attested by its secretary or assistant secretary, and the said party of
the second part has caused these presents to be subscribed by its
president and secretary, the day and year first above written.
& '.IV.
n'r
"CHrAGo AND NoRnTHWESTERin RAILWAY CO.,
CO. SEAL.
"By M. L. SYKES, Jr., Vice-.President.
"Attest
"A. L.PRITCHARD, Secretary.
"WIscoNsiN CEnTRaL RAILRoAD Co.,
t.
CO.sEAL.
"By Gxo. REED, _President.
"Attest
" CURTIS REED, Secretary."

{c.

IS.CE..U.

XII. That said Wisconsin Central Railroad Company, in
running across said bridge and coming to said block 3, runs
on the line of the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company
about one mile, that except that distance the said Wisconsin

Oct. 1880.]

MENASHA

V. HAZARD.

Central Railroad Company has constructed its road from said
block 3 to the Wolf River.
XIII. That on Nov. 23, 1870, the said Portage, Winnebago,
and Superior Railroad Company voluntarily consolidated its
franchise and capital stock with the Portage, Stevens Point, and
Superior Railroad Company, a corporation incorporated by and
under chapter 369 of the Laws of Wisconsin. 1870, under an
agreement of consolidation filed in the office of the secretary
of state of the State of Wisconsin, Dec. 5, 1870.
XIV That on Feb. 4, 1871, the name of the Portage,
Winnebago, and Superior Railroad Company was changed to
the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company, under the provisions
of chapter 27 of Private and Local Laws of Wisconsin, 1871.
That by chapter 31, General Laws of Wisconsin, 1871,
approved March 1, 1871, the said chapter 126 of the General
Laws of 1869 was amended as follows "SECT. 2. All bonds and other securities which have heretofore
been voted by any county, town, incorporated city, or village under
the provisions of said chapter 126 of the General Laws of 1869 to
said railroad, under its name of Portage, Winnebago, and Superior Railroad Company, shall be issued and delivered to said
company by and under its said name of Wisconsin Central Railroad Company, and such bonds or other securities so issued and
delivered shall have in all courts and places and with all parties the
same force and effect as though the name of said company-had not
been changed and the same had been issued and delivered to it
under its name of Portage, Winnebago, and Superior Railroad
Company '

XV That on July 1, 1871, the said company voluntarily
consolidated its franchises and capital stock with -the Manitowoc and Minnesota Railroad Company a corporation incorporated and extended under and by virtue of chapter 342 of the
Private and Local Laws of Wisconsin for 1868, chapters 255
and 302 of the Private and Local Laws, for 1869, and chapter
476 of the Private and Local Laws for the year 1871, by an
agreement thereto filed in the office of the secretary of state
of the State of Wisconsin, July 10, 1871.
XVI. That by chapter 127 of the General Laws of Wisconsin for 1874 the city of Menasha was incorporated and made

IMENASHA V. HAZARD.

[Sup. Ot.

capable of being sued for the indebtedness of said town of
Menasha, and liable to pay three-fourths of any recovery
XVII. That the plaintiff bought the bonds of which the
coupons are in suit from Gardner Colby, president of the Wiscousin Central Railroad Company, for a valuable consideration,
without notice, other than appears on the face of the bonds and
certificates printed on them, as follows Bond No. 16, on Dec.
11, 1873, bonds Nos. 12, 13, 14, 15, 18, 19, 37, 38, and 39, on
Sept. 12, 1874.
The judges were divided in opinion upon the following questions -

First, Whether the coupons executed and delivered, and
there being upon the bonds to which they were annexed such
certificates as hereinbefore set forth and produced upon the
trial by the plaintiff, created a liability against said town in
favor of the plaintiff under the pleadings and proofs.
Second, Whether the court should have instructed the jury
that the construction of such railroad by the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company without constructing the same across
Lake Butte des Morts, but securing the right to cross said
lake on the bridge of the Chicago and Northwestern Railway
Company under the contract above set forth, was not a performance of the conditions of the proposition to construct a
railroad from block 3, in Jones's plat, on Doty s Island, to
Wolf River.
The court submitted to the jury these two questions First, As to the fact, bearing upon the certificate which the
text of the bond required, whether, under all the facts presented, there has been a substantial compliance with the terms
of the proposition in the terms of the bond.
Second, Whether there has been a substantial compliance on
the part of the railroad company as to the conditions of the construction of the road between Doty's Island and Wolf Creek.
And as to the latter question instructed the jury as follows
Now, if there is nothing on the bond to render it invalid, the
only other question that can arise in the case is, whether the
consideration for which this bond was given has failed so as to
render it inoperative in the hands of the plaintiff. That leads
to the other part of the consideration, viz.. was the road con-

Oct. 1880.]

MENASHA V. HAZARD.

structed from block 3 of Jones's plat, in the town of Neenah,
on Doty's Island, to the Wolf River. That had to be done,
undoubtedly, before these bonds were to be valid, - before
there was a sufficient consideration to render, them available to
the plaintiff in the view that we have taken of the other part
of the case.
Third, Whether a delivery of the stock of the Wisconsin
Central Railroad Company, after consolidation with the Portage, Winnebago, and Superior Railroad Company and with the
Manitowoc and. Minnesota Railroad Company, as hereinbefore
set forth, was a compliance with the terms of such proposition.
Fourth, Whether said town was authorized to issue its'bonds
to the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company after the several
consolidations hereinbefore set forth.
Judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiff against the
town for the amount of the coupons sued on, and interest and
costs. The towh then removed the case to this court.
Hr E. 11arner for the plaintiff in error.
Mr Jdwzn f. Abbot, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

The first question certified in this case is answered in the
affirmative.
We think that the certificate on the back of the bonds is a
substantial compliance with the condition on their face, and
the proposition of the railroad company accepted by the town.
The condition as expressed. in the bonds is in the exact language of the second article of the proposition, and implies that
they shall be considered as fully executed, and that they. may
be put on the market as valid commercial paper, "when it is
thereon duly certified that the conditions upon which they were
voted, issued, and deposited by said town have been performed."
To ascertain what "duly" means in this connection it is inecessary to look to the other parts of the proposition, and there
we find in article 3 that the bonds, when issued by the proper
officers of the town, were to be deposited with the National
Bank of Commerce in New York, "in. trust for said town,
until such time as there shall be filed in said bank a properly
authenticated certificate, signed by the chief officer of this

MENASHA

v.

HAZARD.

[Sup. Ct.

company and the chairman of the board of supervisors of said
towAi, or the secretary of state of this State, that the iron has
been laid upon the track of road and cars run over the same,
through from the depot on Doty's Island, or in said town to
Wolf River, when the said bonds shall become the absolute
property of and be held by said bank, subject to the order of
this company, or its assigns, and which certificate shall authorize and require the president of said bank to certify upon the
back of each of said bonds that the conditions upon which the
said bonds were voted, issued, and deposited by said town have
been performed." Taken as a whole, the proposition and the
condition on the face of the bond mean that the bonds should
become the valid and subsisting obligations of the town when
the president of the National Bank of Commerce had certified
thereon that the president of the railroad company and the
chairman of the board of supervisors of the town had certified
to him that the iron had been laid on the track of the road and
the cars run over the same from the depot on Doty's Island, or
in said town, to Wolf River. This certificate was on the bonds
when they were bought by the defendant in error on the market.
In legal effect it was the same as if it contained the words, "that
the conditions upon which they [the bonds] were voted, issued,
and deposited by said town had been performed, " because by
the very terms of the proposition the certificate of the proper
officers was to be conclusive evidence to the president of the
bank of that fact, and not only authorize, but require, him to
make the indorsement contemplated. When, therefore, he
certified that he had received, and put on file in his bank, certificates from the proper parties, such as were required as the
basis of his action, he did certify to the facts which the proposition said they should conclusively prove. His statement of
what they proved was unimportant. The proposition settled
that.
*The fact that the certificate furnished the bank is signed in
the name of the railroad company by the president is not a
valid objection. It was signed by the president, and that is all
the proposition required.
The third and fourth questions are also answered in the affirmative.

Oct. 1880.]

MENASHA

v.

HAZARD.

Before the subscription and bonds were voted, the Portage,
Winnebago, and Superior Company was authorized to consolidate with other companies "which by law may be authorized
to construct connecting lines of road or make such consolidation."
Act approved March 10, and published April 6, 1870.
The Portage, Stevens Point, and Superior Railroad was incorporated March 16, 1870, with express authority to consolidate
with the Portage, Winnebago, and Superior Company The
Wisconsin Central Railroad Company is, in fact, the name of
Portage, Winnebago, and Superior Company as changed by
statute, Feb. 4, 1871. The organization of the company was
the same after as before this change. The Manitowoc and
Minnesota Railroad Company was authorized to enter into consolidation agreements by the act of March 24, 1871, being
chapter 476 of Private and Local Laws, Wis., 1871, and the
consolidation with the company was actually effected July 1,
1871. The vote for the bonds was taken June 4, 1870, and
the bonds were issubd and delivered to the bank Oct. 25, 1871.
Upon this state of facts we think this case is brought directly
within the principles settled in County of Scotland v Thomas
(94 U S. 682) and Wilson v Salamanca, 99 id. 499. The
authority of the Wisconsin Central Company was to consolidate with any other company that might at any time have the
power to enter into such an arrangement. It was not confined
to such companies as then had the power.
These answers 'dispose of the case, and make it unnecessary
to consider the second question certified. When the bonds
were "duly certified" and delivered to the railroad company
by the bank, they became, under the agreement of the parties,
valid instruments, completely executed in form, and in a condition to be put on the market as commercial paper. Having on
them the necessary certificate, the purchqser need not inquire
whether the facts were as certified. Anthony v County ofJasper,
101 U. S. 693. With the certificate indorsed, the bonds were
in legal effect the same as if they had been issued by the proper
officers under full authority without the condition which appeared on their face. Under these circumstances, the condition
did not destroy their negotiability
Judgment affirmed.

