UNITED STATES v. ATHERTON.

UNITED STATES

v.

[Sup. Ct.

ATHERTON.

1. A bill in chancery to set aside a judgment or a decree of a court of competent
jurisdiction on the ground of fraud must set out distinctly the particulars
of the fraud, the names of the parties who were engaged in it, and the
manner in which the court or the party injured was misled or imposed on.
2. A bill to set aside or annul a patent of the United States for public lands, or
to correct it on account of fraud or mistake, must show, by like averments,
the particulars of the fraud, and the character of the mistake and how it
occurred.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr William J Johnston and Mir James K. Bedington for the
appellant.
No counsel appeared for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a bill in chancery, brought in 1877 under the
direction of the Attorney-General, by the attorney of the
United States for the District of California, as well on behalf
of the United States as of certain settlers and pre-emptors
upon the public lands described in the bill.
Its object is to set aside a decree of the District Court for
that district, rendered, on appeal, in 1860, confirming a claim
which had been formally passed upon by the board of commissioners for the settlement of private land-claims in California.
The history of the case given by this bill is that the claim
was originally presented to the board of commissioners as a
Mexican grant, and confirmed by that board. On appeal to
the District Court, that order was reversed, and the claimant s
petition dismissed.
About four years after this, a grantee of the claimant filed a
bill of review in the District Court, which set aside its former
order of dismissal, and affirmed the order of the board of cominissioners confirming the grant. Something of a history of
the origin of the grant is given in the bill, from which it would

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. ATHERTON.

appear that it was founded in forgery and was otherwise illegal, and, certainly, on the face of this bill, if it were an open
question, the title could not be sustained.
But before we can reach this inquiry, it is necessary to get
rid of the decree of the District Court. That the board of
commissioners and the District Court had jurisdiction, the one
original and the other by appeal, of this claim is not doubted.
It is not denied by counsel, nor can it well be doubted, that
the District Court had jurisdiction by bill of review in .a proper
case to set aside and correct its former decree. The present
bill does not set out that bill of review, or even its substance.
It does not show whether any defence was made to it by the
United States, or any process served on any of its officers. It
gives iio more of the proceedings in that case than it chooses,
and this is scant indeed. The case having been heard on
demurrer to this bill which was dismissed, every presumption
not inconsistent with its allegations is to be made in favor of
the decree of the District Court. It is, therefore, to be presumed that, on the questions raised by the bill of review, there
was a full and fair hearing, and that the rights of the parties
were duly considered.
The only impeachment of that decree is in a single paragraph of the present bill, which reads as follows "And your
orator charges that the action of said United States District
Court for the Southern District of California in the premises,
in setting aside and vacating its former decree and confirming
said claim, was irregular and without authority of law, and
that said former decree rejecting said claim had become final."
A decree of a court of record is ,not to be set aside seventeen
years after it has been rendered, because it was irregular, or
erroneous. We have already said that the court had jurisdiction of the matter. If its action was in any other respect
without authority of law, it surely should have been shown
what that was. The decree rejecting the claim became final
in the sense that it had settled the rights of the parties, and
it, like any other, was subject in a proper case to be opened
by a-bill of review within five years after it had been passed.
There is no allegation of fraud in procuring it, no imputation
is made upon the court.

UNITED STATES v. ATHERTON.

[Sup. Ct.

The present bill avers that no new testimony was offered
on the bearing of the bill of review, but that the latter was
founded on the allegation that the former decree was erroneous, and ought to be reversed for error apparent in the record.
It was so reversed, and the decree ultimately rendered simply
confirmed the action of the board of commissioners.
It is impossible to hold that such a decree should be opened
for a new hearing on such allegations as these, so long after it
was made. No fraud is charged against it, no error of law
pointed out, no want of jurisdiction asserted. There is but a
loose, disconnected effort to show that, if another hearing could
be had, the result would be different.
The bill also alleges that the patent issued by the United
States does not conform to the survey which was finally approved in the surveyor s office. This patent bears date Feb.
16, 1875, and the present bill was filed two years after. The
discrepancy alleged between the amount of land covered by
the survey and that covered by the patent is very large. The
bill was filed within a reasonable time after the patent issued.
We should be very much inclined to sustain any bill showing
such a squandering of the public land if the allegations had
been sufficiently specific to call upon the defendant to answer.
Such a bill must rest, however, on the ground of fraud or mistake, and it is too clear for argument that it should set out the
particulars of the fraud, or the manner in which the mistake
occurred.
No copy of the patent is exhibited, nor of the survey with
which it is said to differ.
There is only the general allegation that certain persons, not
named therein, conspired together, and by false and fraudulent
representations and suppression of facts imposed upon the officers connected with the land-office at Washington, and fraudulently procured the patent to be issued.
No names of the parties who committed the fraud, no names
of the persons or designations of the officers imposed on, are
given. It is at war with the whole character of proceedings
in courts of equity to call in aid its extraordinary poiier to
set aside on these allegations such a solemn public record as a
patent of the United States.

Oct. 1880.]

DENSIORE V. SCOFIELD.

We had occasion to discuss this matter so recently in larquez V. Prsbze (101 U. S. 473), that we will content ourselves
with a reference to that case.
It is urged that, after the court had sustained a demurrer to
the bill, the complainant asked leave to amend, which was refused, on the ground that no amendment could be made which
would justify the relief prayed. The right to amend after a
demurrer has been sustained must rest largely, if not wholly,
in the discretion of the court, and while we are not prepared
to hold that in no case will its action in the matter be reviewed here, we have no hesitation in saying that the abuse of
this discretion must be made plain to authorize us to do so.
In the case before us, there is no suggestion of the nature of
the amendment proposed- to be made. No amendment was
offered for the consideration of the court, nor do we know in
what particulars the parties desired to amend. We have no
foundation, therefore, on which to affirm that the court erred in
refusing the request.
-Decree affirmed.

DENSmORE v. SCOFrELD.
Reissued letters-patent No. 2261, dated May 29, 1866, issued' to James Densmore
and Amo Densmore for "a new and useful improved oil-tank car for carry.
ug petroleum and other like substances in bulk," are void,-the alleged
invention described m the specification being destitute of utility and novelty.
APE-FA_ from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Hr J C. Olayton and Hr A. Q. Keasbey for the appellants.
George Willey, contra.

11r

delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree dismissing the complainant's bill, brought upon a reissued patent issued to James
Densmore and Amos Densmore May 29, 1866. The summation and claims, as set forth in the reissue, are as follows MR.JUSTICE SwAYNE

