THE

" CLARA."

[Sup. Ct.

government shows that, in the customs laws passed from time
to time by Congress, exact analogies to the case in hand have
constantly occurred and are numerous. It is unnecessary particularly to advert to them.
In cases like this, the law recognizes the authority of those
engaged in commerce, and adopts, necessarily and as conclusive,
the meaning which they have given to words and phrases employed in their daily business.
It is needless to notice specifically the several assignments of
error. They relate to the instruction given, and to several asked
by the counsel for the plaintiffs and refused by the court. As
regards the former, we have expressed our approval.
If the latter were in conflict with it, they were properly refused for that reason.
Conceding that they were correct, the instruction given was
sufficient for the case. Nothing more could, therefore, be required of the court. ,latwnal Banc v Burkhardt, 100 U. S.
686.
Judgment affirmed.

THE " CLARA."
A small schooner, having no watch on deck, was lying at anchor inside the Delaware Breakwater in a very dark night, when vessels were constantly arriving
for shelter from an approaching storm. Among them was one well manned,
which, in proceeding to a proper anchorage, without any fault of either omission or commission on her part, collided with and sunk the schooner. If a
sufficient watch had been on the deck of the latter, the coUision might have
been avoided. Held, that the vessel was not liable.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
1

1r Hlenry J Scudder for the appellants.
M r Robert D Benedict and j1r -E.L. Owen, contra.
AI.

JUSTICE SWAYxE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal in admiralty
The case grew out of a
collision between the schooners " Clara" and the " Julia

Oct. 1880.]

THE " CLARA."

Newell," on the 25th of February, 1874, inside the Delaware
Breakwater. The owners of the latter vessel libelled the former.
The libel was dismissed below Hence this appeal. The facts
were found by the Circuit Court pursuant to the act of Congress of April 13, 1876,'c. 77 (18 Stat. 315), which in this
respect is a re-enactment of the nineteenth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20. 1 Stat. 83.
The first-named act limits the power of this court upon
appeals in such cases "to a determination of the questions of
law arising upon the record, and to such rulings of the Circuit Court, excepted to at the time, as may be presented by a
bill of exceptions." Here there is no bill of exceptions. As
respects the facts, we cannot, under any circumstances, look
beyond the findings in the record. The Abbotsford, 98 U S.
440. The only question before us is as to the correctness of
the conclusion of law arrived at by the Circuit Court. That,
also, is set forth pursuant to the requirement of the act of 1876,
and follows in the record the findings of fact.
The facts as found are as follows 1st, The collision occurred inside of the Delaware Breakwater, and the "Newell " was thereby, sunk. The "Newell "
was a small vessel of seventy-eight tons burden. In the afternoon of the 23d of February, 1874, she anchored within the
breakwater for shelter from an approaching storm. The
" Clara," being on a voyage from New York to Baltimore,
foreseeing the coming storm, bore away and also put into the
breakwater for safety She arrived about five o'clock A.M. on
the 25th of February, 1874, and while proceeding to a proper
There were then a
anchorage collided with the " Newell."
large number of vessels in the breakwater, and others were
constantly arriving.
2d, That at the time the " Clara" entered the breakwater
the night was cold and very dark, the moon having gone down
several hours before. That the " Julia Newell " was improperly lying without a watch on deck. That the storm was
increasing, and set in about the time the "Clara" came to
anchor, and was a very severe snow-storm.
3d, If the "Newell" had had a sufficient watch on deck, the
accident might have been prevented.

THE "CLARA."

[Sup. Ct.

4th, The " Clara" was well manned, and had proper lights
and a proper lookout.
The conclusion of the court as to the law of the case is thus
expressed -

The failure to keep a watch on the deck of the "Julia
Newell" was the cause of the collision.
Looking at the case in the light of the findings of fact, no
fault whatsoever, of omission or commission, is imputable to
the "Clara."
It is true it was her duty, under the circumstances, to enter the breakwater and proceed to her anchorage
with the greatest care and circumspection. Culbertsonv S/jaw,
18 How 584.
Whether there was any failure on her part to comply with
this requirement is not shown. But the maxim applies, quod
non app]aret non est. The fact not appearing is presumed not
to exist. The libellants brought the case into court and thus
assumed the affirmative. The burden of proof rested primarily
upon them. If in this or in any other respect there was delinquency on the part of the respondents, it was for the libellants to prove it. As the case is presented to us in the record,
the " Clara" must be held entirely blameless.
Such is not the position of the "Newell."
The findings as
to her put her deeply in the wrong The night was dark.
The moon had gone down. The tempest bad begun and was
increasing. A large number of vessels were already within
the breakwater, and others were constantly arriving
This condition of things demanded the greatest vigilance on
the part of all concerned.
It was necessary to their safety Life and property were
both at stake. The " Newell" had been at anchor more than
twenty-four hours, and the officers in charge of her had ample
time for thought and preparation. Yet it is found that amid
these perils she was "lying without a watch on deck," and if
she had had "a sufficient watch" the collision that ensued
"might have been prevented."
There is nothing in the record which mitigates in any degree
the severe condemnation which such recklessness invokes. Her
fault is without excuse.
The rules of law which apply in these cases are well settled.

Oct. 1880.]

LOUISIANA V. NEW ORLEANS.

208

Where the fault is wholly on one side, the party in fault
must .bear his own loss, and compensate the other party, if
such party have sustained any damage. If neither be in fault,
neither is entitled to compensation from the other. If both
are in fault, the damages will be divided. 1 Parsons, Shipp.
& Adm. 525, 526, The JHornng Lzght, 2 Wall. 550, Union
Steamship Co. v New York J Virginza Steamshtp Co., 24 How
307
The want of a proper ,watch is a fault of great weight.
1 Parsons, Shipp. & Adm. 576, 577, The Sapphire, 11 Wall.
164, 1Te Indiana,Abb. Adm. 30, The lary T. Wilde, Taney's
Dec. 567, The FerryboatLydia, 4 Ben. 523. In a cause of collision, the plaintiff, in order to recover entire damages, must
prove both care on his own part and want of it on the part of
the defendant. 1 Parsons, Shipp. & Adm. 529 and note 2.
This case falls clearly within the first of the categories above
stated.
-Decreeaffirmed.

LOUISIANA v. NEW ORLEANS.
1. The obligation of contracts is impaired by such legislation as lessens the efficacy of the remedy which the law in force at the time they were made
provided for enforcing them.
2. A. recovered judgment, in 1874, against New Orleans, upon certain bonds issued
by the city in 1854, and sued out an execution, which was returned ;zulla
boiza. The Act No. 5 of the legislature of Louisiana of 1870 requires that a
plaintiff, having an executory judgment against the city, must file a certified
copy thereof in the office of the controller, and imposes upon the latter the
duty of causing the same to be registered, and of issuing a warrant upon
the treasurer for the amount due thereon, without any specific appropriation
therefor, &c. Held, that so much of said act as requires such filing and
registration before A. can procure a warrant in his favor for the amount
due, or resort to other means to enforce the payment thereof, does not
render less effective his pre-existing remedies, and is therefore not in conffict with the contract clause of the Constitution.

ERROR

to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.

Morris Ranger recovered, May 1, 1874, against the city of

New Orleans certain judgments.

To enforce the collection

