McELRATH v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Nothing in this opinion is intended in any wise to affect the
authority of Kennedy v Gibson and Others, 8 Wall. 498, and
Casey v Galli, 94 U. S. 673. On the contrary, we approve and
reaffirm the rule laid down in those cases.
The comptroller decided correctly as to his duty in this case.
Judgment affirmed.

MCELRATH V. UNITED STATES.
1. An officer of the army or the navy was, June 20, 1866, subject to summary
dismissal from the service by order of the President.
2. On the twenty-seventh day of June, 1866, the President nominated to the
Senate A. to be a first lieutenant in the Marine Corps from the twentieth
day of that month, vice B. dismissed. The Senate advised and consented
to the appointment agreeably to the nomination, and A. was comnissioned
July 13, 1866. Held, that such appointment, followed by a commission,
operated to discharge B. from the service as effectually as if lie had been
dismissed by the direct order of the President.
3. So much of sect. 6 of the act of July 13, 1866 (14 Stat. 92), as provides that
"no officer in the military or naval service shall, in time of peace, be dismissed from service except upon and in pursuance of the sentence of a
court-martial to that effect, or in commutation thereof," did not take effect
before Aug. 20, 1866, on which day in contemplation of law, the rebellion
against the national autiority was suppressed, and peace restored.
4. Upon the settlement of his accounts by the accounting officers of the treasury,
B., while announcing that lie would not be concluded thereby and protesting that the allowance was insufficient, received it, and brought suit in the
Court of Claims to recover the balance claimed. Held, that the United
States is not bound by the settlement, but for any moneys improperly paid
him In pursuance thereof is entitled to judgment.
5. The provision of the act of March 3, 1863 (12 Stat. 765 'Rev. Stat., sects.
1059-1001), authorizing that court, without the intervention of a jury to
hear and determine claims against the government, and also any set-off,
cotnter-claim, claim for damages, or other demand on the part of the government against the claimant, does not violate the Seventh Amendment of
the Constitution.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.

On the 5th of June, 1866, Thomas L. McElrath transmitted
to the Secretary of the Navy his resignation as a first lieutenant in the Marine Corps. By an official communication from
the Navy Department, dated June 19, 1866, and signed by
Mr. Welles, as Secretary of the Navv, he was notified that the

Oct. 1880.]

MCELRATH V. UNITED STATES.

department declined to accept his resignation, the Secretary
adding, "As you deserted from the 'Monongahela' on the eve of
her sailing for the West Indies, you are hereby dismissed from
the service from this date." The President, June 27, 1866,
nominated to the Senate for appointment Second Lieutenant
George B. Haycock of the Marine Corps to be a first lieutenant
in that corps, from June 20, 1866, "vzce Thomas L. McElrath,
dismissed." To that appointment the Senate gave its advice
and consent, and Haycock was accordingly commissioned,
July 13, 1866, to be first lieutenant, on the active list, from
June 20, 1866. Thus matters stood until May 14, 1873, when
McElrath made a formal application to the department for the
revocation and annulment of the order of dismissal of June
19, 1866, submitting therewith evidence tending to show that
he was not a deserter, as charged in the order of that date.
Pending that application, he tendered, July 10, 1873, his
resignation as a first lieutenant in the Marine Corps. On the
same day, Mr. Robeson, then Secretary of the Navy, notified
him, in writing, that "the order of June-19, 1866, dismissing
you [him] from the service, is hereby revoked, having been
issued under a mistake of facts." The Secretary added "You
are thus restored to the position which you held at the date of
that order. The resignation which you now tender is accepted, to take effect this day "
On the eighth day of January, 1874, the claimant was further notified, in writing, by the Secretary of the Navy, as
follows "Your dismissal from the Marine Corps, as a first
lieutenant, dated 19th of June, 1866, is revoked, and your
resignation as a first lieutenant in that corps, tendered in your
letter of the 10th of July, 1873, is accepted from that date."
Why this second notigeation was given is not explained,
and, in the View which the court takes of the case, it is not
material to inquire.
In January, 1874, the claimant made application to the
Fourth Auditor of the Treasury for the settlement of his
account as first lieutenant in the Marine Corps. That officer,
upon examination and settlement of the account, certified to
the Second Comptroller that the sum due to the claimant was
$6,106.53, being the amount of the half-pay and allowances of

MCELRATH v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

a first lieutenant of marines from June 21, 1866, to July 10,
1873, inclusive. The Second Comptroller, having examined the
Auditor s settlement, certified its correctness to the Secretary
of the Navy, who issued his requisition, properly countersigned,
upon the Secretary of the Treasury, requesting a warrant in behalf of the claimant for the amount so ascertained. A warrant
was accordingly issued, and that sum was paid to the claimant,
who, at the time he received it, declared his belief that the sum
was not the entire amount due him, and that he accepted the
same under protest, and should hold himself an no manner concluded as to the remaining sum claimed to be due him.
All of the foregoing facts, and the further fact that the
number of first lieutenants in the Marine Corps. from June 5,
1866, to July 10, 1873, was thirty, were known to the Fourth
Auditor, the Comptroller, and the Secretary of the Navy when
they respectively acted upon the claimant s account.
It also appears that, from June 19, 1866, to June 10, 1873,
he was engaged in business in New York, earning $30 per
week. In other words, he earned in private business, when
not performing service in the navy, during the above period,
more than $10,000.
The present action is by McElrath to recover from the
United States the balance, nearly $7,000, alleged to be due
him on account of pay and allowances as a first lieutenant in
the Marine Corps of the Uited States. The government, denying its indebtedness to him in any sum whatever, set up a
counter-claim for the sum of $6,106.53, which, it contends, was
paid to him by the accounting officers of the Treasury Department without warrant of law A judgment was rendered in
favor of the United States therefor, and lie appealed.
lie assigns for error that the Court of Claims erred in holding 1. That the order of Juie 19, 1866, was the order of the
President, and that the latter dismissed him from the Marine
Corps from that date. 2. That le was not entitled to pay
and allowance from June 21, 1866, to July 10, 1873. 3. That,
in a suit brought in the Court of Claims against the United
States, the latter can recover on a counter-chum a judgment
against a claimant further than is necessary to defeat his
claim. 4. That a counter-claim by the United States in the

Oct. 1880.]

MIcELRATH V. UNITED

STATES.

Court of Claims which seeks an affirmative judgment for more
than twenty dollars is not a suit at common law within the
meaning of the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution, and
that so much of sect. 3 of the act of March 3, 1863 (12 Stat.
765), as purports to confer on said court power to render such
judgment, is not in violation of the Constitution, and that no
part of the proceedings in this case constituted or belonged to
a suit at common law within that amendment. 5. That the
United States under the counter-claim could recover of the
appellant the sum paid to him by the accounting officers of
the treasury as half-pay and allowances for that period, viz.,
86,106.53.
Mr Frank TV Haccett for the appellant.
The attempted dismissal by Secretary Welles, by his letter
of June 19, 1866, was illegal and void. Power summarily to
dismiss a commissioned officer of the Marine Corps was at that
date lodged in the President alone. Art. of War, 2 Stat. 359,
Ex parte Hennen, 13 Pet. 230, Gratiot v The United States,
1 Ct. of C1. 258. The-presumption that an official act of the
head of a department is that of the President, appears to- be
founded upon the theory that, at some previous period, the
President gave general directions, in conformity to which a
secretary may from time to time transact public business.
But tlns implied general authority must be confined to such
ministerial acts as are within the proper sphere of the secretary s duties. On the dismissal of commissioned officers of the
army or the navy by the President, the order, to be effectual
and valid, if it be not signed by him, should at least purport
to be an attestation of his act.
The action of the President and Senate in nominating and
confirming Haycock did not indirectly have the effect of dismissing McElrath. A dismissal from an office, the incumbent
whereof is removable at the pleasure of the President, may
be caused by the appointment of a successor, but, until the
latter is commissioned, that action vests no right in him,
nor does it work the removal of the incumbent. Marbur/ v
Madison, 1 Crandh,.137, United States v LeBaron, 19 How
73. Haycock's commission was not signed till July 13, 1866.
But on that day a statute went into effect providing that no

M1CELRATH V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

officer of the military or the naval service should in time of
peace be dismissed from service except upon and in pursuance
of the sentence of a court-martial to that effect, or in commutation thereof. 14 Stat. 92. A Federal statute takes effect
from its date. Matthew v Zane, 7 Wheat. 164. This statute
took effect from the beginning of July 13. United States v
Lapeyre, 17 Wall. 191, United States v Norton, 97 U. S.164.
Congress, under art. 1, sect. 8, of the Constitution, empowering
them to "1make rules for the government and regulation of
the land and naval forces," may restrain the implied power of
the President to make summary dismissals.
The claimant is entitled to full pay and allowances from
June 19, 1866, to July 10, 1873. He was debarred from active
service by a cause which he could not control, and from no
fault of his own. Act June 30, 1834, 4 Stat. 713, Rev Stat.,
sect. 1612, Digest Decisions Judge-Advocate-General of the
Army, pp. 267-268, sects. 14, 18, 19.
So much of sect. 3 of the act of March 3, 1863 (Rev Stat.
1061), as purports to give the Court of Claims power to render
judgment in favor of the United States against a claimant, is
in violation of the Seventh Amendment of the Constitution,
which provides that in suits at common law, where the value
in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial
by jury shall be preserved. Bamns v The James and Catherine,
1 Baldw 544, Parsons v Bedford, 3 Pet. 446, Willard v .borr,
3 Mas. 161. The counter-claim upon which this judgment was
rendered was a suit at common law for money had and received. A counter-claim which seeks not merely to defeat
the cause of action, but to obtain a distinct and independent
judgment against the claimant, is not a mere incident to the
original claim. It is a new suit. The original suit in the
Court of Claims is not a suit at common law, but the moment
the government attempts to obtain an affirmative judgment in
any sum whatever against a clainailt, the proceeding, so far as
that judgment is concerned, becomes a suit at common law
Unquestionably, as a general principle, Congress has the
right to prescribe terms upon which the government consents
to be sued. But it cannot authorize the government to sue an
individual in a suit at common law, and deny him therein a

Oct. 1880.]

MCEL.ATH1 V. UNITED STATES.

trial by jury Nor can it do. this indirectly by attaching to
his right to sue the government a condition that lie shall surrender a privilege guaranteed to him by the Constitution. He
may, by formally giving his assent thereto, waive the right of
trial by jury, but it is the duty of Congress to preserve the
right in all suits at common law The Court of Claims has no
jury, consequently a petitioner cannot be said sua sponte to
waive his right to one. Nor is it entirely correct to treat the
right of bringing suit in the Court of Claims as a favor. United
States v MKTein, 13 Wall. 144.
But conceding that the court had authority to enter judgment upon the counter-claim, the judgment itself was erroneous.
The Secretary and the Second Comptroller decided that appellant was legally entitled to receive the sum paid him. The
subject-matter being within their jurisdiction, it is presumed
Wilkes v Dinsthat their action was correct in point of law
man, 7 How 89. If the money was paid upon a mistake, it
was a mistakle of law, and according to the well-known rule
it is not recoverable.
The Second Comptroller of the Treasury is a quast judicial
officer. His decisions have the ordinary elements of finality
McKee v United States, 12 Ct. C1. 532, XcKnzght v United
States, 13 id. 292. They are authoritative declarations of law
binding on his successors, and respected in like manner as the
constructions of a statute which have received judicial sanction.
He has jurisdiction to determine whether or not an individual
is an officer of the naval or the military forces, and as such
entitled to pay and allowances.
This court does not know upon what precise grounds the
Comptroller based his decision. There may have been facts
presented to him which do not appear of record here. Because
the appellant brought his petition in the Court of Claims, asking full pay instead of half pay for a specified period, and
because certain facts are certified here from the court below, it
does not follow that the payment by the Treasurer, after allowance by the Second Comptroller, was based upon these facts,
and nothing else. That, though closely connected with the
present proceeding, is a distinct transaction, and there may
have been proof laid before the Comptroller which the appel-

MCELRATtH V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

lant did not make before the court below, or which is not certified up.
How is this court, for instance, to know whether or not
Lieutenant McElrath's case as laid before the Comptroller
came within the provisions of the act of March 3, 1865'?
That act (13 Stat. 489) was in force at the date of Secretary
Welles's letter. It provided that in case any officer dismissed
by order of the President should "make application for a trial,
setting forth under oath-that he has been wrongfully and unjustly dismissed, the President shall, as soon as the necessities
of the public service may permit, convene a court-martial to
try such officer. And if such court-martial shall not award
dismissal or death as the punishment of such officer, the order
of dismissal shall be void. And if the court-martial aforesaid
shall not be convened for the trial of such officer within six
months from the presentation of his application for trial, the
sentence of dismissal shall be void."
Suppose that an officer dismissed under such circumstances
had applied for a court-martial. That tribunal is not convened within six months, or, if convened, does not award death
or dismissal. The statute makes the order of dismissal absolutely void. The President meanwhile has sent ii to the Senate, and that body has confirmed, the nomination of another
individual to fill the vacancy Is the dismissal thus made legal
and valid 9
It is error to treat the Comptroller as an agent of the government to settle accounts rather than as a quasi-judicial officer,
competent to decide the question whether or not Lieutenant
McElrath was legally an officer of the navy While his opinion
upon the law of the case may be pronounced incorrect by this
court, payment of money made by the government in conformity with his opinion is final and conclusive. Nor does the
appellant, by bringing suit in the- Court of Claims, reopen the
settlement at the treasury so as to entitle the government to
recover money paid in mistake of law If this were the case
of credits or allowances made in an account, it may be conceived that an action on the account would give opportunity
for the defendant to restate his account, but here the government has actually paid over the money and closed the transac-

Oct. 1880.]

MOELRATH

V. UNITED STATES.

tion, so far as the question of 'liability to pay anything at all
is concerned the only thing remaining unsettled being the
method of computation.
As there is no statute of limitation running against the
United States, there woulid be constant danger in dealing with
the government, for fear that, years after receiving one's lawful dues (as he supposes), one's heirs would be called upon tO
make restitution, whereas, practically, but little loss can result
to the treasury from an adherence to what has proved a sound
rule in transactions between individuals.
The Attorney- General for the United States.
McElrath held his office at the pleasure of the President, and
such was the tenor of his commission.
The President's power of summarily dismissing an officer of
the army or the navy, although frequently exercised from the
origin of the government, was never seriously questioned. No
attempt was made until 1865 to impose any limitation upon
it. Sect. 17 of the act of July 17, 1862 (12 Stat. 596), did not
confer the power, but rather recognized and declared its existence, and requested him to exercise it whenever the efficiency
of either of those branches of the service would, in his opinion,
be thereby promoted.
The letter of the head of the Navy Department of June 19,
1866, to McElrath as effectually severed his connection with
the service as if it had declared in express terms that the dismissal was by order of the President. Wilcox v Jackson, 13
Pet. 498. If this, however, were an open question, and doubts
could be raised on the subject, they would be removed by the
President's nominating, June 27, 1866, Haycock, vce McElrath
dismissed, and his subsequently commissioning the former from
June 20, 1866, pursuant to the appointment made by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate. The record thus furnishes conclusive proof of McElrath's dismissal by the President.
Congress has power, by express grant, to make rules for
the government and regulation of the land and naval forces.
Whether by such rules the President's power of removal can,
consistently with the Constitution, be restricted, is a question
which does not arise in this case. Sect. 12 of the act of March
voL. X11.

28

IMCELRATH V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Or.

3, 1865 (13 Stat. 489), does not apply to McElrath, as he did
not avail himself of its provisions, nor does sect. 5 of the act
of July 13, 1866 (14 id. 92), for when it took effect he was not
in the service.
McElrath being out of the navy, his relations to it thereafter
were the same as if he had never entered it. The Secretary's
pretended restoration of him in 1873 was without effect. He
could only be appointed by the President in the mode prescribed by the Constitution and laws.
All the facts bearing upon the case being set forth in the
claimant's petition, the issue before the Court of Claims was
essentially one of law, involving the effect of the order of disnissal, its attempted revocation, and the lawfulness of the payment made, under the circumstances, by officers of the United
States.
The question of the constitutionality of sect. 1061, Rev Stat.,
which he discusses, does not, therefore, fairly arise, but, conceding that it does, the section has no relation to matters of
defence which might be pleaded in a suit at common law It
authorizes that court to hear and determine any distinct and
separate cause of action of the United States against the claimant, at the same time with his claim, and if it be less or equal
to his, to set it off, and if it be greater, to render judgment
for the United States. The principle is the same whether the
counter-claim be greater or less than the amount to recover
which the suit was brought.
The act of Feb. 10, 1855 (10 Stat. 612), first gave the formal
consent of the United States to be sued. To the privilege thus
conferred Congress subsequently attached the right of the government to plead a set-off, a counter-claim, a claim for damages,
whether liquidated or unliquidated, or other demands on its part.
McElrath, by availing himself of the privilege, waived in the
Court of Clains whatever right he possessed of trial by jury in
other courts.
A set-off is merely an incident to a pending suit, and acts
upon a plaintiff already in court. Congress has not attempted
to bring debtors into a court where there is no trial by jury
It simplV says, that when asserting rights by suit against the
United States they shall be subject to its cross-demand.

Oct. 1880.]

MCELRATH

V.

UNITED STATES.

A set-off did not exist at common law in suits at law. Green
v Darling, 5 Mas. 201, Green v Farmer,4 Burr. 2214.
In a recent case brought here by appeal from the Court of
Claims, where the judgment upon a-counter-claim was for hundreds of thousands of dollars, it was not suggested or intimated by eminent counsel that sect. 1061 was unconstitutional.
Union Pacific Railroad Co. v United States, 99 U. S. 402.
The argument of the claimant strikes at the whole existence
of the court, for it was as customary to try by jury issues of
fact arising on a petition of right, as those arising in suits
brought by the sovereign against the subject. Tidd's Practice,
tit. Extent in Chief, p. 1046, Manning's Exchequer Practice,
tit. Petition of Right, p. 85.
The receipt by the claimant of public money to which he had
no right, legal or equitable, gave to the United States a cause
of action.
The allowance of the claim by the accounting officers is no
obstacle to a recovery After jurisdiction to hear set-offs and
counter-claims had been conferred on the Court of Claims,
Congress provided, by the act of March 30, 1868 (15 Stat. 54,
sect. 191, Rev Stat.), that the balances stated by those officers
upon settlements of public accounts should be subject to revision by the proper courts.
Neither the United States nor the claimant is bound by those
settlements. United States v Bank of the Metropolis, 15 Pet.
377, United States v Kaufman, 96 U. S. 567
Public money paid improperly and without authority of law.
by the agents of the government, may be recovered. Cooke v
United States, 91 U. S. 397, Bayne v. United States, 93 id.
642, Attorney- General v Perry, 2 Com. 481, United States
v Bartlett, 2 Ware, 9, Duke de Cadaval v Collins, 6 Nev &
M. 324, Jones v Barkley. 2 Doug. 684, 697, IlfIuttyloll Seal
v Dent, 8 Moo. P C. C. 319, Evans's Essay on the Action for
Money Had and Received, 28, 29.
IB. JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The first and second assignments of error proceed upon the
ground that, notwithstanding the order of dismissal of June 19,

MOELRATH

V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Or.

1866, and the subsequent appointment, by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate, of Haycock as a first lieutenant in
the Marine Corps, vce McElrath, the latter was never legally
dismissed from the service, but was, in law, a first lieutenant in
that corps during the whole period from June 20, 1866, to July
10, 1873, and as such entitled to full pay and allowances.
In discussing the questions of law involved in this position,
counsel for the claimant starts with these propositions: that the
order of dismissal issued from the Navy Department under the
official signature of Secretary Welles was without authority of
law, that the President alone, at that time, was invested with
power to summarily dismiss from the service a commissioned
officer of the Marine Corps, and that, since the order in question simply purported to be the act of the Secretary, and did
not purport to be the act of the President, or to have been
issued in pursuance of any previous direction by him given, the
presumption cannot be indulged that the dismissal of Lieutenant McElrath was by order of the President.
These propositions open up a very broad field of inquiry as
to what exceptions there are to the general rule that the direction of the President is to be presumed in all instructions and
orders issuing from the proper department concerning executive
business, notwithstanding they may contain no express statement of any direction from him as to the matters to which such
instructions or orders refer. There are, undoubtedly, official
acts which the Constitution and laws requireAo be performed
by the President personally, and the performance of which may
not be delegated to heads of departments, or to other officers
in the executive branch of the government. It is equally true
that, as to the vast multiplicity of matters involved in the
administration of the executive business of the government, it
is physically impossible for the President to give them his personal supervision. Of necessity he must, as to such matters,
discharge his duty through the instrumentality or by the agency
of others. Whether a particular act belongs to one or the
other of these classes may sometimes be very difficult to determine, and we shall not attempt now to lay down any general
rule upon the subject. Nor shall we extend this opinion by
any consideration of the question whether the particular order,

Oct. 1880.]

MCELRATH V. UNITED STATES.

signed by Secretary Welles, should not be presumed to have
been issued -by direction of the President. The determination
of that question is not essential to the disposition of this case,
since, if that order should, for the reasons urged by the claimant's counsel, be deemed a nullity, the nomination and confirmation, subsequently, of Lieutenant Haycock, followed by
his commission, as a first lieutenant in the Marine Corps in place
of Lieutenant McElrath, as certainly operated, under the law as
it then was, to remove the latter from the service, as if lie had
been dismissed by direct order of the President under his own
signature. This, because, as is conceded, the President, at the
time he asked the advice and consent of the Senate to the
appointment of Lieutenant Haycock in place of Lieutenant
McElrath, had the power to dismiss the latter, summarily,
from the service. That power, if not possessed by the President, in virtue of his constitutional relations to the army and
navy (and as to that question we express no opinion), was
given by an act of Congress approved July 17, 1862. The
seventeenth section of that statute declared "that the President of the United States be, and hereby is, authorized and
requested to dismiss and discharge from the military service,
either in the army, navy, marine corps, or volunteer force, in
the United States, any officer, for any cause which, in his judgment, either renders such officer unsuitable for, or whose dismission would promote, the public service." 12 Stat. 599. The
message of the President informing the Senate of the dismissal of Lieutenant McElrath, and the consent of the Senate to
the appointment of Lieutenant Haycock, in his stead, followed
by a commission, in due form, clearly invested the latter with
the office which McElrath had held, and gave him from that
time the exclusive right to the pay and allowances attached to
that position.
But we are here met with the stggestlon that a vacancy
did not exist, and Lieutenant Haycock's right to the office
did not attach until he received his commission on the thirteenth day of July, 1866, on which day, and from the first
moment of that day,-as is claimed upon the authority of
United States v Lapeyre (17 Wall. 191) and United States v
Norton (97 U. S. 164),- it was the law that "no officer of the

AfoELiATII V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

military or naval service shall, in time of peace, be dismissed
from service, except upon and in pursuance of the sentence
of a court-martial to that effect, or in commutation thereof."
Act of July 13, 1866, 14 Stat. 92. To this suggestion one obvious answer is, that the act of July 13, 1866, was not, on that
day, in effective operation. That act assumes to control the
President, in the matter of dismissing officers from the naval
and military service, only in t?me of peace. Its purpose was,
upon the declaration of peace, to suspend the broad power
which he exercised during the recent rebellion, when prompt,
vigorous action was often demanded, to dismiss an officer from
the service whenever, in his judgment, the public interests
would thereby be promoted. But when was the rebellion suppressed and peace inaugurated? Not until the twentieth day
of August, 1866, on which day the President announced, by
proclamation, that the insurrection against the national authority was at an end, and that "peace, order, tranquillity, and civil
authority" then existed "in and throughout the whole of the
United States of America " 14 Stat. 814, United States v
Anderson, 9 Wall. 71, The Protector,12 id. 702. The effect
of that proclamation, as fixing the time when the rebellion
closed, was distinctly recognized by Congress in the act of
March 2, 1867 (14 Stat. 422), which declared that the previous act of June 20, 1864 (13 id. 144), increasing the pay
of soldiers in the army, should be continued in full force
and effect for three years " after the close of the rebellion, as
announced by the President of the United States, by proclamation, bearing date Aug. 20, 1866." Since peace, in contemplation of law, could not exist while rebellion against the national
.government remained unsuppressed, the close of the rebellion
and the complete restoration of the national authority, as announced by the President and recognized by Congress, must
be accepted as the beginning of the "time of peace," during
which the President was deprived of the power of summarily
dismissing officers from the military and naval service,
It results that neither when Lieutenant Haycock was nominated to and confirmed by the Senate, nor when he was
commissioned in place of McElrath, was the sentence of a
court-martial, or any commutation thereof, required as a con-

Oct. 1880.]

McELRATH V. UNITED STATES.

dition precedent to the exercise by the President of the power
of dismissal, or to his appointment of an officer in the service,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
It also necessarily follows, from what has been said, that
the orders which issued from the Navy Department under
the signature of Secretary Robeson, in 1873 and 1874, even if
issued by direction of the President, wefe inoperative for the
purpose of reinstating the appellant in his position as a first
lieutenant in the Marine Corps. The position to which it was
attempted to restore him had, as we have seen, been previously
filled by constitutional appointment, and by the laws th~en in
force the incumbent could neither be displaced nor dismissed,
except "upon and in pursuance of the sentence of a courtmartial to that effect, or in commutation thereof." The attempted restoration was ineffectual for the additional and
equally conclusive reason, that the complement of first lieutenants in the Marine Corps was at that time full. The order
assuming to restore him was, of course, for the reasons already
given, equally inoperative to entitle hin to pay and allowances
for any portion of the period covered by the account settled by
the officers of the treasury The requisition upon the Secretary of the Treasury by the Secretary of the Navy was, consequently, without warrant of law During the period for which
the appellant was allowed half-pay he was not an officer in theservice, and the allowance to him of pay, after the appointment
of his successor, was illegal.
We come now to inquire whether the Court "of Claims erred
in awarding judgment against the appellant for the amount
paid to him out of the treasury of the United States upon the
settlement of his accounts.
Upon this branch of the case counsel for the claimant contends that so much of the act of March 8, 1863, as invests the
Court of Claims with power to render judgment in favor of the
United States against a claimant, is in violation of the Seventh
Amendment of the national Constitution, which provides that
in suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall
exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved.
That section, referring to the trial of causes in which the

McELRATJI

v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

government may plead against the claimant any set-off, counterclaim, claim for damages. or other demand, provides that the
court shall hear and determine such claim and demand both for
and against the government and claimant, and if, upon the
whole case, the court finds that the claimant is indebted to the
government, it " shall render judgment to that effect, and such
judgment shall be final, with the right of appeal, as in other
cases provided for by law" There is nothing in these provisions which violates either the letter or spirit of the Seventh
Amendment. Suits against the government in the Court of
Claims, whether reference be had to the claimant's demand, or
to the defence, or to any set-off, or counter-claim which the
government may assert, are not controlled by the Seventh
Amendment. They are not suits at common law within its
true meaning. The government cannot be sued, except -with
its own consent. It can declare in what court it may be sued,
and prescribe the forms of pleading and the rules of practice to
be observed in such suits. It may restrict the jurisdiction of
the court to a consideration of only certain classes of claims
against the United States. Congress, by the act in question,
informs the claimant that if he avails himself of the privilege
of suing the government in the special court organized for that
purpose, he may be met with a set-off, counter-claim, or other
demand of the government, upon which judgment may go
against him, without the intervention of a jury, if the court,
upon the whole case, is of opinion that the government is entitled to such judgment. If the claimant avails himself of the
privilege thus granted, he must do so subject to the conditions
annexed by the government to the exercise of the privilege.
Nothing more need be said on this subject.
The remaining objection against the judgment in favor of
the government upon its counter-claim deserves notice at our
hands. It is, in substance, this That the Secretary of the
Navy, the Second Comptroller, and the Fourth Auditor having examined the claim of Lieutenant McElrath, and, with
full knowledge of all the facts, decided that he was legally
entitled to half-pay and allowances for the period in question,
the amount paid him cannot be reclaimed because of the subsequent discovery that, in point of law, he was not an officer in

Oct. 1880.]

McELRATH V. UNITED STATES.

the Marine Corps during the period for which he was allowed
such half-pay This view is controverted by the AttorneyGeneral, who contends that the right of the government to
reclaim money paid out of the treasury under a mere mistake
of law is not subject to the same limitations which, under like
circumstances, would be applied between individuals. The
Attorney-General goes even further, and insists that whether
the mistake be one of fact or of law, or of both, the government
may always recover from third persons money improperly paid
out of the public treasury by its accounting officers, not in pursuance of previous judicial determination. Whether the one
or the other of these views, in the broad terms in which they
are announced, is correct, we will not now inquire. For if the
general rule applicable in such cases would preclude the government from reclaiming money which had been paid under
a mistake of law simply, that rule is inapplicable under the
circumstances disclosed in the present case.
Had the appellant rested upon the settlement of his account
by the proper officers of the government, his right to invoke
the general rule, to which we have referred, would have been
entitled to more consideration than it can now receive. Upon
receiving the amount awarded to him by the representatives of
the government, he distinctly announced his purpose not to
abide by their settlement of his accounts, but, in disregard
thereof, to demand an additional sum upon the basis of full pay
and allowances from June 20, 1866, to July 10, 1873.
This suit itself invites the court to go behind that settlement, to re-examine all the questions arising out of the appellant's claim for full pay and allowances, and to correct the
error which he insists was committed to his prejudice by the
accounting officers of the government. The government, declining to plead the settlement of 1874 in bar of the suit, meets
him upon his own chosen ground, and, insisting that its officers, misapprehending the law, paid to him out of the treasury
money to which he was not legally entitled, asks, as we think
it may rightfully do, judgment for the amount thus improperly
paid to him.
Judgmnent affirmed.

