Oct. 1880.]

DENSIORE V. SCOFIELD.

We had occasion to discuss this matter so recently in larquez V. Prsbze (101 U. S. 473), that we will content ourselves
with a reference to that case.
It is urged that, after the court had sustained a demurrer to
the bill, the complainant asked leave to amend, which was refused, on the ground that no amendment could be made which
would justify the relief prayed. The right to amend after a
demurrer has been sustained must rest largely, if not wholly,
in the discretion of the court, and while we are not prepared
to hold that in no case will its action in the matter be reviewed here, we have no hesitation in saying that the abuse of
this discretion must be made plain to authorize us to do so.
In the case before us, there is no suggestion of the nature of
the amendment proposed- to be made. No amendment was
offered for the consideration of the court, nor do we know in
what particulars the parties desired to amend. We have no
foundation, therefore, on which to affirm that the court erred in
refusing the request.
-Decree affirmed.

DENSmORE v. SCOFrELD.
Reissued letters-patent No. 2261, dated May 29, 1866, issued' to James Densmore
and Amo Densmore for "a new and useful improved oil-tank car for carry.
ug petroleum and other like substances in bulk," are void,-the alleged
invention described m the specification being destitute of utility and novelty.
APE-FA_ from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Hr J C. Olayton and Hr A. Q. Keasbey for the appellants.
George Willey, contra.

11r

delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree dismissing the complainant's bill, brought upon a reissued patent issued to James
Densmore and Amos Densmore May 29, 1866. The summation and claims, as set forth in the reissue, are as follows MR.JUSTICE SwAYNE

DENSMORE V. SCOFIELD.

[Sup. Ct.

"The nature of our invention consists in combining two large,

light, tight, firm, stout tanks with an ordinary railway car, making
the tank practically a part of the car, so as to carry the desired
substance in bulk in the car itself, or in a permanent fixture or
part thereof, instead of in barrels, casks, hogsheads, tierces, or other
movable vessels or packages, as is now universally done on railway
cars, and thereby save carrymg the weight of the barrels, casks,
hogsheads, tierces, or other movable vessels or packages.
"What we claim as our invention, and desire to secure by letterspatent, are, "First,The two tanks B, B (or their equivalent), when constructed and operating in combination with an ordinary railway
car, substantially as and for the purposes set forth.
"Second, The two tanks B, B (or their equivalent), when set
directly (or nearly so) over the car trucks, and when constructed
and operating in combMation with an ordinary railway car, substantially as and for the purposes set forth.
" Thi'rd,The frames 0, C, C,C, the bolts 1, 2, 3, and 4, and the
cleats 1,11, H, 1-, when constructed and operating in combination
With tanks B, B, the man-holes and inanheads D, D, and the faucets
E, E, and the runway G, when constructed and arranged in combination with tanks B, B, and an ordinary railway car, substantially
as and for the purposes set forth and described."
The bill alleges infringement, and prays for an account of
profits and a decree for a perpetual injunction, and for such
further relief as may be deemed proper.
Among other defences, the answer denies infringement, and
sets up that the reissued patent is too broad, and is, therefore,
void.
We pass by these topics, because we deem it proper to dispose of the case upon a more radical and comprehensive
objection.
A witness, called by the appellees, testified that he was
largely engaged in shipping petroleum, from 1861 to 1872.
His language is -

"In 1863, and prior to tins and after, I shipped large quantities
of it in old whaling casks holding from one and a half to eight and
ten barrels each. I shipped a great many thousands of barrels in
said casks, which were sent fbrward, returned empty, refilled, and
forwarded again.

Oct. 1880.]

DENSMORE V. SCOFIELD.

"I attach two leaves of my shipping-book, showing some shipments in casks and return casks in 1863, they are correct.
"My practice was to spike down cleats to prevent the casks
from shifting. In nearly every shipment there were small and
large casks as above. -The casks would go to and fio on the railroad many times, carrying oil, and returning in the same cars
empty to be filled and shipped again by me."
Another witness testifies "that he has been general freight
agent on the Lake Shore and Southern Michigan Railway and
its predecessors for about twenty years. That all this time he
has been familiar with the practice and usage in railways as to
loading, and that it has always been their practice or usage
to place or distribute loads so that they should rest, as far as
possible, over-the trucks."
A third witness, speaking of wooden tanks like those of the
complainants, says "During the year 1871, their use was discontinued, because of
the large percentage of leakage, and their consequent liability to
be burned up, and, in case of accident on the railroad, if a tank
was thrown off a car and it was destroyed, a fire was almost certam to result from the accident. A single iron tank built in boiler
shape, and nearly as long as a car, and placed horizontally on the
car, was substituted then.
" Q. 'State whether they use that description of tank down to
the present time.'
". ' That kind of tank car is still in use, and is giving universal
satisfaction because of being tight, little or no leakage, and the liabilities to fire are less, and, in case of accident, the tank is of sufficient strength to even be thrown off a car without injury'
" Q. ' State whether or not tanks of the kind described in the
defendants' patent have gone into disuse in the carrying of petroleum generally'
"A. 'So far as I know, they have.'
Q. 'In loading freight cars, what has always been the practice
and custom in reference to loading over the trucks where the weight
can be thus distributed?'
"A. 'It is the universal custom, so far as is possible, to place the
weight over the trucks."'
These witnesses are unimpeached. and uncontradicted.

UNITED STATES V. SCHURZ.

[Sup. Ct.

This testimony leaves nothing of the substance of the plumtiffs' alleged invention. No one, we apprehend, would seriously
contend for a moment that what is left is sufficient to constitute the basis of a valid patent. Brown v Pzper, 91 U. S. 37,
and the authorities there cited. But, irrespective of this testimony, and of any testimony, upon looking this reissue in
the face, and examining its several claims by their own light,
we find nothing that brings any of them within the sphere
of what is properly patentable. There is no novelty and no
utility It does not appear (to use the language of appellants'
brief) that there was "a flash of thought" by which such a
result as to either was reached, or that there was any exercise
of the inventive faculty, more or less thoughtful, whereby anything entitled to the protection of a patent was produced. It
strikes us that the entirety and all the particulars of the summary and the claims are frivolous, and nothing more.
Patents rightfully issued are property, and are surrounded
by the same rights and sanctions which attend all other property Patentees as a class are public benefactors, and their
rights should be protected. But the public has rights also.
The rights of both should be upheld and enforced by an equally
firm hand, wherever they come under judicial consideration.
Decree affirmed.

UNITED STATES V. SCtUBZ.
1. The Supreme Court of the Distnct of Columbia is authorized to issue the
writ of mandaiausas an original process in cases where, by the principles of
the common law, the petitioner is entitled to it.
2. When a patent for a part of the public lands has been regularly signed, sealed,
countersigned, and duly recorded, the patentee has a perfect right to the
possession thereof.
3. In the progress of the proceedings to acquire, under the laws of the United
States, a title to public land, the power of the Land Department over them
ceases when the last official act necessary to transfer the title to the successful claimant has been performed.
4. Title by patent from the United States is title by record, and the delivery of
the instrument to the patentee is not, as m a conveyance by a private person, essential to pass the title.

