Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF GREENE v. DANIEL.

COUNTY OF GREENFE v. DANTL.
COUNTY OF PICO]nNS

v.

DANIMEL.

1. Where a court of county commissioners in Alabama, pursuant to the act of
Dec. 31, 1868 (Pamphlet Laws of 1868, p. 514), subscribed for stock in a
railroad company, and issued the bonds of the county in payment therefor,
the holder of them, or of ,the coupons thereto attached, is not required to
present them when due to that court for allowance, before commencing
suit, to enforce their payment.
2. In case of non-payment, a nmandamus will, by the laws of the State, lie against
that court to compel the assessment and levy of the necessary taxes; but
the holder who resorts to the courts of the United States must there reduce
the bonds or the coupons to judgment, before he is entitled to that remedy..
3. The court of county commissioners may cause the bonds to be executed in
such denominations as may be agreed upon by it and the railroad company,
provided the total amount for which they are issued does not exceed that
set forth in the proposal accepted by the vote of the qualified electors of
the county.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama.
The first of these actions was brought by Richard C. Daniel
against the county of Greene in the State of Alabama, to
recover the amount of the principal and interest on certain
coupon bonds numbered from 51 to 100, each, for five hundred
dollars, issued by the county in payment of its subscription
to the stock of the Selma, Marion, and Memphis Railroad
Company The bonds are signed by the judge of the Probate
Court of the county as ex offlezo presiding officer of the court
of cbunty commissioners, and are payable at the office of said
company in the city of Memphis, or at its agency in the city
of New York. They bear date Jan. 1, 1877, and recite that
they are "issued under and pursuant to an order of the court
of county commissioners of said Greene County made under
authority of the constitution of the State of Alabama and the
laws of the legislature of the State of Alabama, authorized by a
vote of the people of said county at a special election held for
the purpose Sept. 14, 1867 " The coupons are payable semiannually on July 1 and January 1.
The county demurred to the complaint on the ground that
it does not appear therefrom that the demand sued on was ever

COUNTY OF GREENE v. DANIEL.

[Sup. Ct.

presented to the court of commissioners, as provided by the
laws of the State. The demurrer was overruled. The county
then pleaded five pleas. The first avers that the bonds and
coupons were given in payment of the pretended subscription
by the county to the stock of said company, and that the only
authority to subscribe to said stock and to issue said bonds and
coupons is found in an act of the General Assembly of Alabama,
approved Dec. 31, 1868, entitled " An Act to authorize the
several counties and towns and cities of the State of Alabama
to subscribe to the stock of such railroads throughout the State
as they may consider most conducive to their respective interests," and that said pretended bonds and coupons being issued
upon no other authority or proceedings taken by the cominmissioners court of said county, are not the bonds and coupons of
the said county. The second avers that the votes of the qualified electors of said county in favor of the subscription to said
stock were induced and secured by certain false and fraudulent
representations of the railroad company as to the expenditure
of the proceeds to be derived by it from said bonds and coupons.
The third, fourth, and fifth aver that the plaintiff acquired
them from the company with a knowledge of the foregoing
facts, and that he is therefore not a bona fide holder.
A demurrer to the defendant's pleas was sustained, and judgment rendered in favor of the plaintiff. The county sued out
this writ of error. The material part of the proceedings of
the court of county commissioners referred to in the defendant s pleas are as follows- " COURT OF COUNTY CommissioNERs, AUGUST

TERM, 1869.

"THE STATE OF ALABAMA,
1 Greene County
"At a regular term of the commissioners' court, begun and held
in and for the county and State aforesaid, at the court-house thereof

in the town of Eutaw, on Monday, the ninth day of August, 1869,
the following proceedings were had
"Whereas the president and directors of the Selma, MIarion, and
Memphis Railroad Company have this day submitted to the commissioners' court of Greene County a proposition for a county subscription by said county of eighty thousand dollars to the capital

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF GREENE V. DANIEL.

stock of said railroad company, and made application to said court
to order an election within sixty days from this date, to submit the
said proposition of said railroad company to the qualified electors
of said county for their acceptance or rejection in pursuance of the
provisions of an act of the General Assembly of the State of Alabama,
entitled ' An Act to authorize the several counties, towns, and cities
of the State of Alabama to subscribe to the capital stock of such
railroad through the State as they may consider most conducive to
their interests,' approved Dec. 31, 1868, the said proposition being
that said county shall subscribe ($80,000) eighty thousand dollars to
the capital stock of said company at fifty dollars (850) per share, to
be paid in the bonds of said county, payable to said railroad company
or bearer in sums of one thousand five hundred dollars each, and
due ten and twenty years after date thereof, with interest coupons
attached for interest on each of said bonds at the rate of eight per
cent per annum, to be paid semi-annually
"It is now therefore considered and ordered by the court that the
said application be and the same is hereby granted. And it is further ordered by the court, that such an election shall be held in the
several precincts of said county as established by law, on Tuesday,
the fourteenth day of September, 1869."
"COURT
"THE

OF COUNTY COMmissIoNERs, DcEMBER

TERM, 1869.

STATE OF ALABAMA,

" Greene County
"At a court of county commissioners begun and held in and for
Greene County aforesaid, at the court-house thereof in Eutaw, on
the third Monday of December, A.D. one thousand eight hundred
and sixty-nine, being the twentieth day of said month.
"Whereas an order was made by this court on the ninth day of
August, 1869, by which the proposition in writing of the president
and directors of the Selma, Marion, and Memphis Railroad, Company, for a county subscription by the county of Greene of eighty
thousand doll'ars to the capital stock of said railroad company,
was submitted to the qualified electors of said county at an election held at the several precincts in said county on the fourteenth
day of September, 1869, conducted by the same officers and in the
same manner as provided by law for general elections in this State,
after giving thirty days' notice thereof, as required by law, and
whereas it appears to the court, from the returns of the sheriff of
said county, that such election was held on the fourteenth day
of September, 1869, in pursuance of the said order, and it also

190

COUNTY OF GREENE

v.

DANIEL.

[Sup. Ct.

appearing to the court by the returns of said election made to the
judge of the probate court of said county that the said election thus
held resulted in favor of the said proposition and subscription to
the capital stock of said company,
"It is now ordered by the court that the said proposition and
the returns of the said election be received and recorded on the
minutes of this court.
"And it is further ordered that the proposition of the said company be, and the same is hereby, accepted, and the said court of
county commissioners are hereby authorized and do make, in the
name and for the said county'of Greene, the said subscription of
eighty thousand dollars to the capital stock of said company in the
name set forth in said proposition, and it is further ordered by said
court that the bonds of the said county of Greene, in the sum, of
five hundred dollars each, with interest coupons attached for semiannual interest at the rate of eight per cent per annum, the said
bonds payable to the said company or bearer at twenty years from
date, and dated the first day of January, 1870, and due and payable
the first day of January, 1890, at the office of the said company, or
at their office or agency in the city of New York, when presented
at the office of the said company or their agency, shall be issued and
delivered to the said company, signed by the probate judge of said
county, and that the said couRons thereto attached of twenty dollars each shall be signed by the said judge, payable in like manner
on the first day of January and July of each year from and after
the date of said bonds."
The proposition referred to in the foregoing proceedings was
as follows "To the Honorable the Court of County Commsssoners of Greene
County in the State of Alabama
"We. the president and a majority of the board of directors of
the Selma, Marion, and Memphis Railroad Company, in pursuance
of the provisions of an act of the legislature of the State of Alabama,
entitled I An Act to authorize the several counties and towns and
cities of the State of Alabama to subscribe to the capital stock of such
railroads throughout the State as they may consider most conducive
to their respective interests,' approved Dec. 31, 1868, hereby propose to the said county of Greene, through your honorable body,
under and by virtue of the said act of the legislature, to subscribe
for and take eighty thousand dollars of the capital stock of said

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY

OF GREENE V. DANIEI.

railroad company at fifty dollars per share, to be paid in the bonds
of said county, payable to the said railroad company or bearer,
said bonds to be so payable in the sum of one and five bundred
thousand dollars each, and due ten and twenty years after the date
thereof, and bearipg interest at the rate of eight per cent per annum
from date till paid, with interest coupons attached for interest on
each of said bonds at the rate aforesaid, which interest is to be paid
semi-annually, the amount of said interest and bonds to be payable
as aforesaid at such time and place as may be agreed upon between
the said railroad company and the .ludge of probate of said county,
as soon as may be after the acceptance of this proposition by the
qualified electors of said county, at an election held for the purpose,
under and by virtue of the provisions of the said act of the legislature of the State of Alabama.
"All of which is respectfully submitted to your honorable court for
your action, and that of the qualified electors of Greene County, in
the State of Alabama, thereon, and is signed by us at
in Perry
County, in the State of Alabama, this the sixth day of August in
the year 1869.
"SELMA,

& MEmPHIs RAILROAD
"By N. B. FORREST, Pres."

MARION,

CO.,

The second suit was brought by Daniel against the County
of Pickens, upon coupons attached to bonds issued by it for
two hundred and fifty dollars, and payable to the same company as were the bonds in the other suit. The defence was the
same in both cases. In the Greene County case the proposition
of the railroad company, which was made June 14, 1869, was
that the county should subscribe one hundred thousand dollars
to the capital stock, and issue its bonds for one thousand dollars each in payment thereof. It was accordingly submitted to
the qualified voters at an election held for that purpose, Aug. 3,
1869. The vote .was in favor of the subscription.
An order of the court of county commissioners-, passed August 16, after reciting the result of the vote and directing the
subscription to be made, coitains the following " With the
consent of said company it is further ordered that fifty thousand
dollars of subscription be paid for as aforesaid in bonds of the
denomination of two hundred and fifty dollars each, and fifty
thousand in bonds of the denomination of one thousand dollars
each."

COUNTY OF GREENE

v.

DANIEL.

[Sup.

.

There was a judgment for the plaintiff. The county then
sued out this writ of error.
The laws of Alabama bearing upon the cases are referred to
in the opinion of the court.
M-" John T. -lforyaafor the plaintiffs in error.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The principal questions in these cases are 1. Whether the demurrer to the complaint should have been
sustained because it was not averred specially that the coupons
sued on were presented to the court of county commissioners
for allowance before the suit was brought, and,
2. Whether the bonds from which the coupons were cut were
void because they were not of the same denomination as those
specified in the proposition of the railroad company for subscription, submitted to and voted on by the county
As to the first question. By the Code of Alabama, sect. 826
[907], it is provided that the court of county commissioners
must, in term-time, audit all claims against their respective
counties, that every claim as allowed must be registered in a
book kept for that purpose, and that the judge of probate, who
is made by law the principal judge of the court (Code, sect.
739 [825]), shall give the claimant a warrant on the treasury
for the amount allowed. This warrant it is made the duty of the
county treasurer to pay on presentation, if he has funds in the
treasury to meet it. Code, sect. 3395 [920]. No claim can
be passed upon or allowed by the court unless it is itemized
and sworn to by the claimant, or some person in his behalf
having knowledge of the facts. Code, sect. 827 All claiis
must be presented for allowance within twelve months after
they accrue and become paygble, or they will be barred, unless
the claimant is a minor or lunatic. Sect. 832 [909]. "No
suit can be brought against a county until the claim or demand
has been presented within the time limited by sect. 832 [909]
to the court of county commissioners and either disallowed or
reduced by such court, and refused by the party " Code, sect.
2903 [2537].

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF GREENE V. DANIEL.

A county in Alabama is a body corporate, capable of suing
and being sued. Code, sect. 815 [897]. In Shnbone v Randolph County (56 Ala. 183), which was a suit on coupons cut
from railroad bonds, while it was held to have been definitely
settled that an action at law did not lie against, a county on a
contract which had not been presented to the commissioners'
court, and by that court disallowed in whole or in part, and
that such presentment and disallowance must be averred in the
complaint, it was nevertheless said "It may be the claims oil
which this action is founded are not required to be presented
-to the commissioners' court for allowance. The statute under
which the bonds were issued
may fix definitely their validity and amount. If that be true, - and as the case is not
presented, it is not for us to determine whether it is or not, if the commissioners' court refuses to levy a tax for their payment, mandamus to compel them is the appropriate remedy
for appellant." p. 185. In Gomnmzsszoners' Court of Limestone
County v Rather (48 id. 433), it was expressly decided that
bonds issued in payment of a subscription to a railroad company, signed by a majority of the court of county commissioners in the presence of the probate judge, who certified to
that fact, and for the payment of which it was made the duty
of the commissioners' court to levy and assess a special tax
each year, were not such claims as need be presented for allowance under this section of the code. In the opinion, the court
said " The act authorizing their issuance renders it wholly
unnecessary that they should be allowed by the court of county
commissioners, and they are not required to be registered as
claims of a different character, nor are they to be paid by
warrants on the county treasurer, but altogether in a different
way" p. 446.
The bonds in the present cases were issued under the act to
authorize the several counties, toWns, and cities of Alabama
to subscribe to the stock of railroads, passed Dec. 31, 1868.
Pamph. Acts 1868, 514. This act provided (sect. 1) that railroad companies might, in writing, propose to a county that it
subscribe for an amount of the capital stock of the company,
to be named in the proposal, at a certain price per share, and
pay for it in such bonds of the county "as should be set forth
VOL. XII.

13

194

COUNTY OF GREENE

v.

DANIEL.

[Sup. Ct.

in said proposal." This proposal or application was (sect. 2)
to be submitted to the commissioners court of the county,
and that court was authorized and required to order an election within sixty days, to enable the qualified electors of
the county to determine whether the proposition should be
accepted or rejected. At least (sect. 4) thirty days before the
election the court was required to give notice of the "terms
The returns of
and amount of the proposed subscription."
the election were to be made to the judge of probate (sect. 5),
whose duty it was to receive, count, estimate, and publish the
-vote. If a majority (sect. 6) was found to be in favor of
the subscription, the proposition was to be deemed to have
been accepted, and the court of county commissioners was
required to make the subscription voted in behalf of the
county for the amount set forth in the proposal, and deliver
the railroad company, in payment of the subscription, bonds
of the county, having not less than ten nor more than twenty
years to run, with interest coupons attached for semi-annual
interest, payable at such times and places as might be agreed
upon between the company and the judge of probate. By
sects. 7 and 8 it was made the duty of the commissioners'
court to levy and see to the collection of such tax, not exceeding one per cent per annum on the taxable value of the property in the county, as should be necessary to meet the interest
as it fell due, and by sect. 10 the coupons past due were
receivable at par in payment of this tax.
The bonds and coupons in these cases were signed by the
judge of probate of the county, as the presiding officer of
the commissioners' court, and it seems to us that they are,
in legal effect, themselves warrants on the treasurer, given by
the judge of probate after an allowance by the court of the
claim of the railroad company for the payment of the county
subscription, in accordance with the terms of the accepted
proposal. The claim was, tb all intents and purposes, audited
by the court when the bonds were issued. The validity and
amount of the liability were then definitely fixed, and warrants
on the treasury given, payable at a future day The treasurer
could pay them when due on presentation without further
action of the court, if he had funds in his hands applicable

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF GREENE

v.

DANIEL.

to that purpose. In his hands they would be good vouchers
for money disbursed from that fund., The provision that the
coupons should be received in payment of taxes levied to meet
them is entirely inconsistent with any idea of an unliquidated
claim which required further auditing.
In the State courts, under the rule as stated in 8hznbone v
Randolph County (supra), and other cases, a mandamus would
lie without reducing the coupons to judgment, to compel the
commissioners' court to levy and collect the taxes necessary
to pay what was due. The rule is different, however, in the
courts of the United States, where such a writ can only be
granted in aid of an existing jurisdiction. There a judgment
at law on the coupons is necessary to support such a writ.
The mandamus is in the nature of an execution to carry the
judgment into effect. Bath County v Amy, 13 Wall. 244, Graham v Norton, 15 id. 427 A suit, therefore, to get judgment
on the bonds or coupons is part of the necessary machinery
which the courts of the United States must use in enforcing
the claim, and the jurisdiction of those courts is not to be
ousted simply because in the courts of the State a remedy may
be afforded in another way
As to the second question. Sect. 11 of the act under which
shall be
the bonds were issued provides " that the bonds
of such denomination as the court of county commissioners
and said railroad company may agree upon, but not to be
for less than one hundred dollars, nor more than one thousand
dollars."
In the proposition of the company to Greene County, it was
suggested that the bonds to be issued in payment of the subscription should be "in the sum of one and five hundred thousand dollars each." In the records of the court ordering the
election, the proposition, as recorded, is that the bonds be "in
the sum of one thousand five hundred dollars each." The
final action of the court was to issue bonds of five hundred
dollars.
In the Pickens County case the proposition was that the
bonds be in the sum of one thousand dollars each, but after
the election, with the consent of the company, it was ordered
by the court that one half the amount should be in the sum of

COUNTY OF GREENE

v.

DANIEL.

[Sup. Or.

two hundred and fifty dollars, and the other half one thousand
dollars each, and the bonds actually put out were of these
denominations.
As to the Greene County case, it is apparent that there was
a clerical mistake, either in the proposal or the record, as to
the description of the bonds to be issued, and it is easy to see
that the intention was to have bonds of a thousand dollars
and five hundred dollars each, but in the Pickens County
case the proposition was distinctly that they should be for one
thousand dollars. This, however, we consider unimportant, for
sect. 11 expressly provides for bonds of such denomination as
the commissioners' court and the company should agree on.
From this it is clear that the parties were not bound in this
particular by the sums specified in the proposal. They were
limited by the proposition as accepted in respect to the total
amount of the issue, but not the denomination. The bonds as
issued were of such denominations as the law allowed the
court and the company to agree on, and that, in our opinion,
is enough.
The only other assignments of error relate to the sufficiency
of the second and third pleas. As to these, it is sufficient to
say that we are entirely satisfied with the rulings below
Bonds issued under the authority of a popular election cannot
be set aside simply because all that may have been said by
interested parties, in public speeches during the canvass which
preceded the election, does not turn out to be in every respect
true.
Judgment ?n each case affirmed.

