CASEY

sioned.

v.

ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Had not the plaintiff dispensed with a further com-

pliance with the condition of the bond, it is probable that the
defendant would have taken measures to ascertain what steps
were requisite to get the mortgage discharged of record, and
would have literally complied with the con dition of the bond."
So when A. gave to B. a bond to convey certain premises, but
they subsequently agreed by parol to rescind the contract, and
A. thereupon sold the premises to a third person, it was held
that though the bond was not cancelled or given up, nor any of
the papers changed, yet by the parol agreement and the acts
of the parties under it the bond was discharged. Dearbornv.
Cross, 7 Cow. (N. Y.) 48; and see 2 Cowen & Hill's Notes to
Phillips on Evid., 605. The principle involved in these cases
is applicable to the present.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTE. -- The other points involved in the foregoing case were of minor
importance, and, at the'suggestion of the justice who delivered the opinion, are
omitted.

CASEY v. ADAMIS.
Actions, local in their nature, may be maintained in the proper State court
against a national banking association in a county or a city other than that

where it is established.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
This was a proceeding instituted in the Fifteenth Judicial
District Court, parish of La Fourche, Louisiana, by Adams &
Co., against sundry parties, among whom was Nicholas W.
Casey, receiver of the New Orleans Banking Association, which
was organized under the act of Congress and established at
New Orleans.
It appears that, by virtue of executory process issued out of
that court, a certain parcel of land in the parish, whereon
Adams & Co. held a mortgage, was sold, they becoming the
purchasers for less than their debt. "The sheriff refused to
complete the adjudication" unless they paid certain mortgage
claims of the banking association and other creditors. Adams

Oct. 1880.]

CASEY V. ADASi.

& Co. then obtained a rule against the creditors, the sheriff
and the recorder to show cause why the mortgages appearing
in the names of the creditors should not be cancelled and
erased, 'and upon the sheriff further to show cause why he
should not " complete the adjudication " and put the purchasers in possession.
Casey alone appeared. He pleaded to the jurisdiction upon
the ground that a national bank cannot be sued in a State
court, except in the county or parish in which it is located,
and that its rights.cannot be determined on a rule to show
cause.
The court made the rule absolute, and the Supreme. Court,
on appeal, affirmed the judgment. Casey thereupon removed
the case here.
Mr. Charles Case, Mr. John -D. _ouse, and MrTh. William Grant
for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Thomas J. Durant and Mr. Charles TV. Hornor, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The Federal question in this case is whether a national bank
can be sued in a State court in a local action in any other
county or city than that where the bank is located. By sect.
5198, Rev. Sta., it is provided that "suits, actions, and proceedings against any association under this title [The National
Banks] may be had in any circuit, district, or territorial court
of the United States held within the district in which such
association may be established, or 'in any State, county, or
municipal court in the county or city in which said association
is located, having jurisdiction in similar cases." This, 'we
think, relates to transitory actions ohly, and not to such actions
as are by law local in their character. Sect. 5186 subjects
the banks to suits at law or in equity as fully as natural persons, and we see nowhere in the Banking Act any evidence of
an intention on the part of Congress to exempt banks from the
ordinary rules of law affecting the locality of actions founded
on local- things. The distinction between local and transitory
actions is as old as actions themselves, and *no one has ever
supposed that laws which prescribed generally where one

68

KIRK v. HAMILTON.

[Sup. Ct.

should be sued, included such suits as were local in their character, either by statute or the common law, unless it was expressly so declared. Local actions are in the nature of suits in
rem, and are to be prosecuted where the thing on which they
are founded is situated. To give the act of Congress the construction now contended for would be in effect to declare that
a national bank could not be sued at all in a local action where
the thing about which the suit was brought was not in the
judicial district of the United States within which the bank
was located. Such a result could never have been contemplated
by Congress.
The proceeding in this case was clearly local in its nature.
It related to property in the parish of La Fourche, which had
been seized and sold under process from the District Court of
that parish. The proceeds of the sale were in that court, and
could not be distributed until "a conflict of privileges" arising
between creditors was settled. No personal claim was made
against the bank. Nothing was wanted except to "class the
privilege" of the bank on the property seized "according to
its rank." Whether, under the laws of Louisiana, the form of
proceeding instituted for that purpose was appropriate, is not
a question for us. The decision of the Supreme Court of the
State as to that matter is conclusive.
Judgment affirmed.

KiRK v.

HAMILTON.

1. In 1859, Al. & Co., judgment creditors of A., filed their bill in the Circuit
Court of the District of Columbia, against him and others, setting forth
that lie had, without consideration and with intent to defraud his creditors,
conveyed to the other defendants his real estate in that district. It was
adjudged, May 30, 1860, that certain lots of ground be sold by a trustee to
pay Mii.& Co. and such other creditors as might come in according to the
practice of the court. The trustee subsequently reported that, having sold
a part of the lots and realized more than sufficient to pay M. & Co., he had
discontinued the sale. His report was confirmed Nov. 28, 1862. An order
of the court, Nov. 14, 1863, recites that certain other creditors of A. had
filed petitions in support of their claims, and directs that he being then a
non-resident, notice of the character and object of the petitions be given
him by publication. Publication was made accordingly, and the defend-

