Ot. 1880.]

POTTER V. NATIONAL BANK.

POTTER v. NATIONAL

BAiq.

In an action against an executor in his representative capacity A., who was
interested in the issue but not a party thereto, was, against the objection
of the defendant, introduced as a witness by the plaintiff, and permitted to
testify to statements of the testator touching the subject-matter in contro-

versy. Held, that the witness was competent and the evidence admissible.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr George Willard for the plaintiff in error.
Mr HuntngtonT
W Jackson and Mr John H. Thompson,
contra.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

Thts is a writ of error from a judgment rendered in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Illinois in favor of the Third National Bank of Chicago, Illinois, against Orrm W Potter, executor of &l.B. Ward. Upon
the trial before the jury, one William Sturgess, not a party to
the action, was introduced as a witness in behalf of the bank.
In the course of his examination he was allowed, against the
objection of the defendant, to testify as to a conversation had
by him with Ward, touching some of the matters involved in
the present controversy The objection to his testifying was
placed upon the ground that Ward was dead, and that he, the
witness, was interested in the issues to be tried. The action of the Circuit Court in permitting the witness to disclose
that conversation is the subject of one of the assignments of
error.
By sect. 858 of the Revised Statutes it is declared that "in
the couiKts of the United States no witness shall be excluded in
any action on account of color, or in any civil action because
he is a party to or interested in the issue tried Provmded,
that in actions by or against executors, administrators, or
guardians, in which judgment may be rendered for or against
them, neither party shall be allowed to testify against the
other as to any transaction with or statement by the testator,

POTTER V. NATIONAL

BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

intestate, or ward, unless called to testify thereto by the opposite party, or required to testify thereto by the court. In all
other respects the laws of the State in which the court is held
shall be the rules of decision as to the competency of witnesses
in the courts of the United States in trials at common law and
in equity and admiralty "
The first clause of this section is, substantially, in the words
of the proviso of the third section of the act of July 2, 1864,
making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the government. 13 Stat. 351. The second clause is in the words of the
proviso of the act of March 3, 1865, amending the third section
of the act of July 2, 1864 (id. 533), while the last clause is
founded upon the act of July 16, 1862. 12 id. 588.
The existing statute (Rev Stat., sect. 858) seems too plain
to require construction. The first clause of that section shows
that there was in the mind of Congress two classes of witnesses, - those who were parties to the issue, that is, parties to
the record, and those interested in the issue to be tried, that
is, those who, although not parties to the record, held such
relations to the issue that they would lose or gain by the direct
legal operation and effect of the judgment. A witness may be
interested in the issue without being a party thereto, - a distinction which seems to have been recognized in all the statutes
to which reference has been made. But whether a party to
or only interested in the issue, the witness is not to be excluded
iii the courts of the United States, upon either ground, except
that in actions in which judgment may be rendered for or
against an executor, administrator, or guardian, no party to the
action can testify against the other as to any transaction with,
or statement by, the testator, intestate, or ward, unless called
to testify thereto by the opposite party, or required to testify
thereto by the court. The proviso of sect. 858 excludes only
one of the classes described in its first clause, - those who are,
technically, parties to the issue to be tried, -and we are not
at liberty to suppose that Congress intended the word "party,"
as used in that proviso, to include both those who, according
to the established rules of pleading and evidence, are parties to
the issue, and those who, not being parties, have an interest
in the result of that issue.

Oct. 1880.]

POTTER

v.

NATIONAL BANK.

It is, however, contended by the learned counsel for the plaintiff in error that, by the laws of Illinois, Sturgess was an incompetent witness as to the matters embraced in his conversation
with Ward, and that the Circuit Court was bound to follow
those laws as interpreted by the highest court of the State. It
is quite true that the thirty-fourth section of the Judiciary Act
of 1789 - preserved, totidem verbzs, in sect. 721 of the present
revision of the statutes - has been construed as requiring the
Federal courts, in all civil cases at common law, not within
the exceptions named, to observe, as rules of decision, the rules
of evidence prescribed by the laws of the States in which such
courts respectively sit. Vance v Campbell, 1 Black, 427,
Wrzght v Bales, 2 id. 535, 2Mc-iel v Holbrook, 12 Pet. 84,
Sims v Hundley, 6 How 1, Ryan v Brindley, 1 Wall. 66.
But that section of the act of 1789, as does sect. 721 of the
Revised Statutes, expressly excepts from its operations cases
"where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United
States otherwise provide." We have seen that the existing
statutes of the United States do " otherwise provide," in that
they forbid the exclusion of a witness upon the ground that
lie is a party to, or interested in, the issue, in any civil action
whatever pending in a Federal court, except in a certain class
of actions, which do not embrace the one now before us. "In
all other respects," that is, in all cases not provided for by
the statutes of the United States, the laws of the State, in
which the Federal court sits, constitute rules of decision as
to the competency of witnesses in all actions at common law,
in equity, or in admiralty It is clear, therefore, that the
laws of Illinois can have no bearing upon a case which, as
here, is embraced, or has been provided for, by the Federal
statute.
But little need be said concerning the remaining assignments
of error. The one which relates to the action of the court in
permitting the bank to show that, in due course of its business,
notices of protest would have been forwarded by mail to Ward,
had they been received from the notary, would have deserved
consideration, but for the fact, which appears from the bill of
exceptions, that the jury were informed by the court, in its
charge, that if the liability of Ward, as indorser, depended

166

POTTER

v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

solely upon this point, they would be instructed that the proof
of such notice was insufficient. We cannot see, therefore, that
this evidence, even if improperly admitted, injuriously affected
the plaintiff in error.
The objection to the admission in evidence of the letter of
Parsons, cashier, to Smith, dated Dec. 11, 1873, was properly
overruled. No objection was made by plaintiff in error to the
admission of the letters and telegrams of prior dates. The
particular letter, to the reading of which objection was interposed, constituted a part of the transactions described in the
letters and telegrams of previous dates, and was properly admitted, in further explanation of those transactions.
The only other assignments of error, of sufficient importance
to require notice, relate to those parts of the charge to the jury
to which exception was taken by the plaintiff in error. In
each sentence or paragraph of the charge, to winch exception
was especially taken, the court informed the jury that the
evidence tended to show certain facts which are detailed in the
charge. The point is made here that the evidence did not
tend to show any such state of facts as the charge of the court
implied. But counsel overlook, or fail to give proper force to,
the circumstance that the bill of exceptions, not purporting to
contain all the evidence adduced before the jury, itself states
that there was evidence tending to show the facts set forth in
the charge. If, upon the whole evidence, the plaintiff in error
was entitled to a peremptory instruction in his behalf, and the
court had refused, when asked, to give such an instruction, its
action could not be reviewed here, except upon a bill of exceptions, containing all the evidence. And so, if there was no
evidence, or not sufficient evidence, tending to show the facts
recited in the charge. If he desired the court to give any
particular propositions of law to the jury, so much of the evidence as is necessary to show their pertinency ought to be set
forth in the bill of exceptions. But no propositions of law
were submitted by him to the court to be given to the jury
We do not perceive that the charge is in conflict with the
evidence, so far as it is detailed in the bill of exceptions.
Under all the circumstances, this court must assume that
there was evidence tending to show the facts set out in the

Oct. 1880.]

MINING CO. V. CONSOLIDATED MINING CO.

167

charge to the jury And so construing the bill of exceptions,
we do not perceive that any error of law was committed, and
the judgment is, therefore,
Affirmed.

MINING COMPANY V. CONSOLIDATED MINING COMPANY.
1. The grant of the sixteenth and thirty-sikth sections of public land to the
State of California for school purposes, made by the act of March 3, 1853
(10 Stat. 246), was not intended to cover mineral lands. Such lands
were, by the settled policy of the general government, excluded from all
grants.
2. A settlement within the meaning of sect. 7 of that act is not required, either
in regard to the acts to be done or the qualifications of the settler, to be
precisely the same as that whereby a pre-emption right can be secured
under the act of Sept. 4, 1841. 5 Stat. 453.
3. Whenever, at the time the government surveys of section 16 or 36 of public
land in California are made, there is, by the erection of a dwelling-house
or by cultivation, a settlement on any portion thereof, whereon some one
resides who asserts .claim thereto, the title to such portion does not vest
in the State, but she has the right to other land in lieu thereof. Sherman
v. Buzck (93 U. S. 209) and Water 4- Mining Company v. Bugbey (96 id. 165)
commented on and explained.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

Hr Peter Van Clief and 1r Oliver D. Barrett for the plaintiff in error, 1Vr Samuel A!. Wilson and 1Air George A. Nourse
for the defendant in error, Hr Bqnjamzn P Butler for the
State of California, and The Attorney- eneral for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The action in this case was brought originally in the State
court of California by Daniel W Gillette against the Keystone
Consolidated Mining Company, the present defendant in error,
to recover possession of the east half of section 36, in township
7 north, range 10 east of Mount Diablo meridian, and in the
progress of the case it was transferred to the Circuit Court of

