222

GOODYEAR DENTAL VULCANITE

Co. v.

DAVIS.

[Sup. Ct.

could by a suit in equity enjoin the execution of the writ
against her tenants before her motion was made, she could
afterwards.
It follows that the appeal must be dismissed, and it is
So ordered.

GOODYEAR DENTAL VULCANITE CO.-,PANY

v.

DAVIS.

1. The invention for which reissued letters-patent No. 1904, dated Mlarch 21,
1865, were granted to the Goodyear Dental Vulcanite Company was a set
of artificial teeth, as a new article of manufacture, consistingof a plate of
hard rubber with teeth, or teeth and gums, secured thereto in the manner
described in the specification, by embedding the teeth and pins in a vulcanizable compound, so that it shall surround them while it is in a soft state,
before it is vulcanized, and so that when it has been vulcanized the teeth
are firmly and inseparably secured in the vulcanite, and a tight joint is
effected between them, the whole constituting but one piece. Held, that
the invention being a product or manufacture made in a defined manner,
and not the product alone, separated from the process by which it is created,
the process is as much a part of the invention as is the material of which
the plate or product is composed.
2. Those letters are not infringed otherwise than by using the material and the
process or their equivalents. A plate made of celluloid is not, therefore,
an infringement, as celluloid is not an equivalent for hard rubber, and in
preparing it for that purpose the process, which is inseparable from the
invention, cannot be employed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of Massachusetts.
This was a bill in equity brought by the Goodyear Dental
Vulcanite Company against Charles G. Davis. alleging his infringement of reissued letters-patent No. 1904, dated March 21,
1865, and granted to the complainant, as assignee of John A.
Cummings, for an improvement in artificial gums and plates.
The bill was, on a final bearing upon the pleadings and
proofs, dismissed. The complainant appealed here.
The facts are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by ilfr William H~enry Clifford and M-r
Jenjam?.n F Lee for the appellant, and by Mr Henry Baldwin, Jr., and 11r William . Shipman, for the appellee.

Oct. 1880.]

GOODYEAR DENTAL VULCANITE Co. v. DAvis.

223

Mr. JUSTIcE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

The invention described in the C'ummings reissue patent is
claimed in the words following " The plate of hard rubber or
vulcanite, or its equivalent, for holding artificial teeth, or teeth
and gums, substantially as described." The claim cannot be
understood without reference to the details given in the specification. In that it is said to consist "in forming the plate to
which the teeth, or teeth and gums, are attached, of bard rubber, or ' vulcanite,' so called, -an
elastic material possessing
and retaining in use sufficient rigidity for the purpose of.mastication, and, at the same time, being pliable enough to yield a
little to th? motions of the mouth." The mode of "forming"
the plate is then minutely described. The earlier steps of the
process need not be particularly noticed. They relate to the
formation of a plaster mould, fitted to the corresponding part of
the mouth, with the artificial teeth adhering in the mould in
exactly the relative position they are to occupy in the hardrubber plate. The specification then proceeds as follows
" The teeth are provided with pins projecting therefrom in
such a manner that the rubber which is to constitute the plate
will close around them, and by means of them hold or secure
the teeth permanently in position. The plaster mould, with
the teeth adhering therein, as just described, is.now filled with
soft rubber, a little at a time, pressed in with the finger, or in
any other convenient way, and care is to be taken that the
rubber is made to completely fit into the cavities and around
the protuberances, including the pins, and is filled in to the
thickness or depth desired to form the plate." "I then" (says
the .patentee) "lock the rubber plate in position by shutting
the other half of the plaster mould over it, to insure its retaining its exact form while warming, and then heat or bake it in
an oven, or m any other suitable way The soft rubber or gum
so inserted into the mould is to be compounded with sulphur,
rubber, &c., in the manner prescribed in the patent of *Nelson
Goodyear, dated May 6, A.D.. 1851, for making hard rabber,
and is to be subjected to sufficient beat to vulcanize or harden
it, substantially as directed ii that patent. It is also to be
colored in imitation of the natural gums, by mixing it with
vermillion, or other suitable coloring matter, while in the soft

224

GOODYEAR DENTAL VULCANITE

Co. v. DAVIS,

[Sup. Ct.

state. After the plate has been heated sufficiently to harden
it, or convert it into hard rubber, or ' vulcanite,' so called, the
mould is removed, and the plate is polished ready for use."
Such is the description, both of the material of which the
plate is formed and of the method or process by which it is
made.
We had occasion in Smith v Goodyear Dental Vuleanite
Company et al. (93 U. S. 486) to construe this patent, and
determine what the invention claimed and patented really was.
We held it to be "a set of artificial teeth, as a new article of
manufacture, consisting of a plate of hard rubber with teeth, or
teeth and gums secured thereto in the manner described in the
specification, by embedding the teeth and pins in a vulcamzable
compound, so that it shall surround them, while it is in a soft
state, before it is vulcanized, and so that, when it has been vulcanized, the teeth are. firmly and inseparably secured in the
vulcanite, and a tight joint is effected between them, the whole
constituting but one piece." We said, " The invention is a
product or manufacture made in a defined manner. It is not
a product alone, separated from the process by which it is
created." The process detailed in the description antecedent
to the claim, and referred to thereby, is as much a part of the
invention as are the materials of which the plate or product is
composed. Both are necessary elements of it. Hence, to constitute an infringement of the patent, both the material of
which the dental plate is made, or its equivalent, and the process of constructing the plate, or a process equivalent thereto,
must be employed. It is, therefore, essential to a correct
determination of this case to consider what was the material
made by the patentee an element of his invention, and what
can be considered an equivalent therefor.
It is impossible to read the specification of the original patent,
or that of the reissue, upon which this suit is founded, without
the conviction that the patentee had in mind primarily a single
substance for his material, and that one of a peculiar character,
itself a compound discovered and patented not long before.
Thus, in the original, which was loosely drawn, the invention
was said to consist " in forming the plate and gums, to which
the teeth are attached, of rubber, or some other elastic mate-

Oct. 1880.]

GOODYEAR DENTAL VULCANITE

Co. v. DAvis.

225

rial, so indurated as to be rigid enough for the purpose of mastication, and pliable enough to yield a little to the motions of
the mouth, and in one piece, the teeth being embedded in the
elastic material while the said material is in a soft condition,
and then baked, with the gums and plate, so that the teeth,
gums, and plate will all be connected, forming, as it were, one
piece." And again, "the plate and gums are formed of one
piece, and of rubber, or of rubber and the compounds commonly employed therewith, or of gutta-percha, or, in fact, of
any elastic substance which can be reduced to a soft condition,
and then vulcantzed, or hardened sufficiently to answer the purpose. The rubber or other material used is first moulded to fit
the shape of the mouth, and the gums formed, and while soft
and pliable the teeth are embedded in the gums.
The
teeth, gums, and plate, being thus connected, are then baked
until the elastic material becomes sufficiently vulcanized, when
the process is completed." The claim also expressed the same
thought. It was "forming the plate and gums in which the
teeth are inserted, iii one piece, of hard rubber or vulcanite, Z.e.
an elastic material which can be hardened sufficiently for mastication, and retain a portion of its elasticity, so as to yield a
little to the motion of the mouth, as herein set forth, and for
the purposes specified."
Though the specification spoke of
rubber, or of rubber and its compounds commonly employed
therewith, or of gutta-percha, or of any elastic substance that
can be reduced to a soft condition and then vulcanized, or
hardened sufficiently to answer the purpose, it is evident that
only such substances were intended as are either soft in their
natural condition, and capable of vulcanization, or if hard naturally, and reduced to a soft state, were then capable of being
vulcanized or hardened by baking. The description implies
an exclusion of all substances which have not such capabilities.
If not, then gold plates would have been within the patent, if
the material only be considered, for gold is elastic when in thin
plates. It is capable of being reduced to a soft conditwn, and
it hardens by cooling, but it does not harden by heat or baking, nor is it capable of vulcanization.
If, now, we turn to the specification and claim of the reissued patent (which, of course, cannot be more comprehensive
VOL. XIi.

15

226

GoODYEAR DENTAL VULCANITE

Co. v.

DAVIS.

[Sup. Ct.

than the original), it will be found that the material is still
more distinctly and exclusively pointed out. The material is,
so far as possible, restricted to a substance either vulcanized or
capable of vulcanization. There the invention is said to consist "in forming the plate to wInch the teeth, or teeth and
gums, are attached, of hard rubber or vulcanite, so called, an
elastic material," of certain capabilities mentioned. Not an
intimation is given that any other substance than hard rubber,
or its synonym, vulcanite, would meet the requirements of the
invention. Throughout the specification the patentee speaks
again and again of his invention as a hard-rubber plate, and he
describes minutely the process or mode of making it. After
having mentioned the arrangement of the teeth in a mould, lie
says "The plaster mould, with the teeth adhering therein, is
now filled with soft rubber, a little at a time, pressed in with
the finger, or in any other convenient way," &e. " I then lock
the rubber plate in position by shutting the other half of the
plaster mould over it, to insure its retaining its exact form
while warming, and then heat or bake it in an oven, or in any
other suitable way The soft rubber, or gum, so inserted in
the mould, is to be compounded with sulphur, rubber, &c., In
the manner prescribed in the patent of Nelson Goodyear, dated
May 6, A.D. 1851, for making hard rubber, and is to be subjected to sufficient heat to vulcanize or harden it, substantially
as directed in that patent." Thus it appears that, whatever
the material used in the construction, a dental plate, according
to the patent, was required to undergo a process of vulcanization in the manufacture, and to be made what it is, whether
denominated rubber, hard rubber, vulcanite, or other elastic
material, by that process. Every substance not capable of vulcanization by that process was, therefore, necessarily excluded
from the reach of the patentee's invention. Nothing could
more plainly show that a dental plate made of any other material than a compound, vulcanized according to Nelson Goodyear's process, was not intended by the patentee and by the
Patent Office to be covered by the patent. By Goodyear s
patent caoutchouc, or soft rubber, is converted into hard rubber , that is, vulcanized, by mixing sulphur with it in about
the proportions of from four ounces to a half pound of the

Oct. 1880.]

GOODYEAR DENTAL VULCANITE CO. v. DAVIS.

227

former to a pound of the rubber, and then heating the com-

pound during a period of from three to six hours, to the
temperature of from two hundred and sixty to two hundred
and seventy-five degrees of Fahrenheit. The use of that process was made indispensable to the invention, and its product
was the material of which the patented plate is constructed. If,
when the patent was granted, there were known substances,
other than rubber or caoutchouc, gutta-percha, or gums, that
could be Vulcanized by the Goodyear process, and converted
from a soft into a hard, elastic material, any use of that material for a dental plate might have been an equivalent for the
Cummings material, and an infringement of his patent.
This construction of the patent is confirmed by the avowed
understanding of the patentee, expressed by him, or on his
half, when his application for the original patent was pending.
We do not mean to be understood as asserting that any correspondence between the applicant for a patent and the Commissioner of Patents can be allowed to enlarge, diminish, or vary
the language of a patent afterwards issued. Undoubtedly a
patent, like any other written instrument, is to be interpreted
by its own terms. But when a patent bears on its face a
particular construction, inasmuch as the specification and'claim
are in the words of the patentee, it is reasonable to hold that
such a construction may be confirmed by what the patentee
said when he was making his application. The understanding
of a party to a contract has always been regarded as of some
impdrtance in its interpretation.
In his letter to the commissioner, under date of July 80,
1855, written by his attorney, after striking out all reference to
gutta-percha, he said. "I beg the office not to consider that because gutta-percha has been used heretofore with artificial teeth,
Mr. Cummings's invention is, therefore, the mere substitution
of one substance for another and a similar one. The vulcanizing process makes all the difference, and changes the article
of madufacture entirely" So in his letter of the same date
he amended his specification so as to make it read "I do not
claim the use of gtta-percha, or of any material which is merely
rendered plastic by heat and hardened by cooling, in the manufacture of sets of artificial teeth, but what I do claim as my

228

GOODYEAR DENTAL VULCANITE

Co. v. DAVIS.

[Sup. Ct.

invention, and desire to have secured to me by letters-patent,
is the improvement in the manufacture of sets of mineral or
other artificial teeth, which consists in combining them with
a rubber plate and gums, which (after the insertion of the
teeth) are vulcanized by Goodyear's process, or any other
process."
On a renewed application, Dr. Cummings was informed that
the office would not object to the admission of a claim limited
to the use of vulcanite or hard rubber. In response to this
he amended his claim by inserting the word "hard" before
"rubber," and also by striking out the word "other" before
the words "elastic material," in the claim as previously made,
and substituting therefor the words "vulcanite, ?. e. an," so as
to make it read, "forming the plate and gums in which the
teeth are inserted in one piece of hard rubber, or vulcanite,
%.e. an elastic material." Thus the patent was granted. In
view of this there can be no doubt of what Cummings understood he had patented, and that both he and the commissioner
regarded the patent to be for a manufacture made exclusively
of vulcanites by the detailed process. We think this, to some
extent, at least, tends to confirm the conclusions at which we
have arrived in interpreting the patent by its own language.
Indeed, we have heretofore expressed doubts whether reissued
letters-patent can be sustained in any case where they contain
claims that have once been formally disclanned by the patentee, or rejected with his acquiescence, and he has consented
to such rejection in order to obtain his letters-patent. Leggett v Avery, 101 U. S. 256. If these doubts be well founded,
and the claim of the reissued letters now before us be, what
these complainants insist it is, a claim for the use of any other
material than vulcanite, or some substance capable of vulcanization, another question might arise respecting the validity of
the reissue.
We have extended our remarks sufficiently upon this branch
of the case. It remains to inquire whether the manufacture,
by the defendant, of dental plates, out of the material known
as celluloid, or solid collodion, is an infringement of the Cummings reissue. We think it is not.
Celluloid is a substance of a comparatively recent discovery

Oct. 1880.]

GOODYEAR DENTAL VULCANITE

Co. v. DAVIs.

229

Whether it was known at the time Cummings madQ his invention, or even at the time when his original patent was granted,
we do not care now to inquire. It is sufficient for this case
that we consider what it is. It is a compound of vegetable
fibre, cellulose, or gun-cotton. Undoubtedly it can be employed for manufacturing dental plates, and as a base for artificial teeth. Such a plate may have the fineness, lightness,
and elasticity of a plate made .of hard rubber by the Cummings process, but it is a substance very different from hard
rubber, and it is incapable of the same manipulation. It is
not vulcanite, and neither it nor its ingredients are capable
of being vulcanized. It contains no sulphur or rubber. None
of its constituents are vulcanizing agents. Camphor does not
perform the function of sulphur. Under the action of heat
its tendency is to soften the compounded mass rather than to
harden it, as sulphur does rubber. When the ingredients of
celluloid are compounded the product is hard, unlike caoutchouc, or gums generally, and heat softens rather than hardens
it. When employed in manufacturing dental plates, the process is wholly unlike that employed in making hard rubber or
vulcanite plates. It is put into a mould, it is true, such as was
known and in use before the Cummings invention, but it is
put in in a hard state, in its natural condition, and not soft or
plastic, and capable of being pressed around the teeth. The
mould cannot be closed until heat is applied. When that is
applied the jaws of the mould are gradually screwed together
as the celluloid softens, and when the jaws come together the
plate is completed. The process requires pressure in addition
to heat in order to reduce the plate to shape, and compress
it around the teeth. There is no heating for hours, as is necessary in the vulcanizing process. The work is done in a few
minutes. When allowed to cool, it is the same hard and bony
substance it was before its manipulation, and in th1is respect
also it is unlike vulcanite. It is obvious from all this that
neither in the nature of the material of which it is made, nor
in the process of manufacture, which is an essential part of
the Cummings invention, as we have seen, is the celluloid plate
substantially the same as one made of hard xubber.
Nor is celluloid an equivalent for hard rubber, for the rea-

GARNEAU v. DozIER.

[[Sup. Gt.

sons already suggested, that it is not capable of vulcanization,
and that it cannot be made into a plate by the process prescribed by Cummings. It may be conceded the patentee is
protected against equivalents for any part of his invention.
He would be, whether he bad claimed them or not. But-when
a product arrived at by certain defined stages or processes is
patented, only those things can be considered equivalents for
the elements of the manufacture which perform the same
function in substantially the same way The same result may
be reached by different processes, each of them patentable, and
one process is not infringed by the use of any number of its
stages less than all of them.
In view of these considerations, we are constrained to rule
that a celluloid dental plate is not an infringement of the
Cummings patent. Celluloid is not an equivalent for the material which the patent makes essential to the invention, and in
the use of it for a dental plate, the process which is inseparable from the invention is not, and cannot be, employed.
-Decree affirmed.

GA

E Au v. DOZIER.

1. Ball v. Langles (supra,p. 128) reaffirmed.
2. Reissued letters-patent No. 6397, granted April 20, 1875, to Duncan MNcKenzie
for a new and useful improvement in baker's ovens, must, in view of the
state of the art at the time the original letters were granted, be so construed
as to limit the element of the combination which relates to the communication between the furnace or fireplace and the interior of the oven, to the
peculiar structural arrangement, whereby the products of combustion are
admitted into the baking-chamber through openings in the arch or top of
the furnace, and through the floor of the oven that separates it from the
fire-chamber along the flues extending rearward from the furnace to the
back part of the oven.
3. There is, therefore, no infringement of the reissued letters where the bottom
of the baking-chamber is not separated by any partition or diaphragm from
the fire-chamber or furnace, and there are no flues to conduct the generated
heat into the chamoer.

ArrnAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Missouri.

