GOODMAN v. NIBLACK.

[Sup. ot.

department, in other words, that such transcript presents
the account of the delinquent as finally adjusted by the proper
officers of the government, and spread upon the records of the
department.
Without stopping to consider other points raised by counsel
in support of the ruling below, it is sufficient to say, that, for
the reasons given, the court below did not err in excluding
from the jury the transcripts offered by the government.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SwVAYKE

and MR.

GOODMAN

v.

JUSTICE BRADLEY

dissented.

NIBLACK.

1. A., who had a contract with the United States, agreed with B., in 1847, that
the latter should pertorn it, and that the profits should be equally divided
between them. Thereupon they and C. executed an instrument in which
the agreement was recited, and A., for the due fulfilment thereof, assigned
tile contract to C. as trustee. A controversy having arisen as to the
amount due upon the contract, Congress, in 1870, authorized C. as such
trustee to sue tile United States therefor, and subsequently made an appropriation to pay the judgment which lie recovered. Held, that as the
assignient was thus recognized by the government, the parties to the agreement and those claiming under them are precluded from setting up that
the contract was not assignable.
2. A. made in 1860 an assignment for the benefit of his creditors, which iicluded
all his rights, credits, effects, and property of every description. Held, that
the assignment, although it covered whatever might be due to him under
his contract with the government, was not within the prohibition of the act
of Feb. 26, 1853 (10 Stat. 170, re-enacted in sect. 3477, Rev. Stat.), nor in
violatio of public policy.
3. Spofford v. Kirk (97 U. S. 484) and Erwn v. Ubnited States (id. 392) cited and
examined.
4. Where a bill is filed to enforce a claim or lien upon a specific fund within
reach of the court, and such of the defendants as are neither inhabitants
of nor found within the district do not voluntarily appear, the Circuit
Court has jurisdiction to adjudicate upon their right to, or interest in,
tle fimd, if they be notified of the pendency of the suit by service or pubhication, in the mode prescribed by sect. 738 of the Revised Statutes.
5. In such a case, where it appears by the bill that certaiii non-residents are
indispensable parties, and they are not made parties, the bill is bad on
demurrer, and should be dismissed without prejudice.

Oct. 1880.]

GOODMAN V. NIBLACK.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Indiana.
This was a bill in chancery filed by Charles Goodman
against William E. Niblack, administrator de bonzs non of
Albert G. Sloo, deceased. A demurrer to it was sustained,
and Goodman appealed.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court.
111r James C. Denny and Mr D V Burns for the appellant.
Air F W Tiehe for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
There came into the hands of Niblack, as administrator de
bonis non of the estate of Albert G. Sloo, the sum of $150,000,
and the complainant is the owner of a judgment against said
Sloo for $81,344.44, recovered in the Supreme Court of the
State of New York, on the twentieth day of January, 1855.
The purpose of the present bill is to follow this money in Niblack's hands as a trust fund devoted by Sloo in his lifetime to
the payment of that judgment. This trust arises, if it exist at
all, out of a deed of assignment made by Sloo of all his property, rights, and credits to Benjamin H. Cheever and James
Wiles, of the date of 'Feb. 3, 1860, for the benefit of all his
creditors, but with some preferences, among which is the judgment. The sum above mentioned was received by Niblack as
the share of Sloo's estate in a claim of over a million dollars
recovered in the Court of Claims against the United States
and paid by the government to Marshall 0. Roberts and
Edward N. Dickerson, in whose names the judgment was
recovered. The history of this claim, which is necessary to an
understanding of the case in hand, is this The fourth section of the act of Congress of March 3, 1847,
chap. 62 (9 Stat. 187), directed the Secretary of the Navy to
contract with Sloo for the transportation of the mails of the
United StAtes from New York to New Orleans, Charleston,
Savannah, Havana, and Chagres and back twice a month, at a
compensation not to exceed the sum of $290,000. The mail
was to be carried in steam vessels of a character described in
the act, not less than five in number, to be constructed under

GoODMAN V. NIBLACK.

[Sup. Ct.

the supervision of officers of the navy, in such manner as to be
easily converted into war steamers of the first class. Under
this authority the Secretary and Sloo executed a written contract on the 20th of April of that year, for the construction of
the ships and transportation of the mails at the sum of
$290,000 per annum. On the 17th of August thereafter Sloo
entered into an agreement with Marshall 0. Roberts, George
Law, Prosper M. Wetmore, and Edwin Croswell, by winch
they were taken into this contract with him, and agreed to
build the vessels, and run them, and perform the obligations
of Sloo to the government. He was to receive one-half of the
net profits of the venture and the four persons named the
other half. In order to the perfect working of this agreement,
a tripartite instrument in writing was made, in which Sloo is
called the party of the first part, and Roberts, Law, Wetmore,
and Croswell the party of the second part, and George Law,
Marshall 0. Roberts, and Berres R. McIlvaine party of the
third part, whereby, after reciting the agreement between the
party of the first part and the party of the second part, the contract of Sloo is assigned to the party of the third part as trustees for the due execution of the agreement. This was signed
by all the persons named.
The ships were built, and the mails carried for many years.
By death and substitution, Marshall 0 Roberts and Edward N. Dickerson became the surviving trustees under the
agreement, and, as such, recovered in a controversy with the
United States in the Court of Claims judgment for the sum
of $1,031,000 as money due under the original contract with
Sloo, which judgment was affirmed in this court and the
money paid to them.
In the mean time, Sloo, who had become insolvent, executed
in 1860 the general assignment to Cheever and Wiles, already
mentioned. He died before the final payment of the money
by the government to Roberts and Dickerson. Niblack was
appointed his administrator.
These facts are all set out in the bill, and copies of the
several contracts and assignments are filed as exhibits. Another averment of the bill is that the' sum really due to
Cheever and Wiles, as assignees of Sloo, out of the sum paid

Oct. 1880.]

GoODMAN

v.

NIBLACK.

by the government, was $182,000, that Cheever and Wiles
received $37,000 of this money, and consented to the payment
of the remaining $145,000 to Niblack under some arrangement not understood by the complainant. It is also alleged
that all the other indebtedness of Sloo which might have been
a claim on this fund under his assignment to Cheever and
Wiles has been paid, and there remains no other claim on it
than complainant's. It is also averred that Wiles and Cheever
are not citizens of Indiana, and cannot be served with process,
and are not made parties to the bill, and for the reasons above
stated are not necessary parties.
The demurrer is, first, general, and, secondly, special as regards the failure to make Cheever and Wiles parties.
The general demurrer is maintained on the ground, that the
assignments made by Sloo are void by reason of the provisions
of sect. 8477 of the Revised Statutes. These provisions were
enacted by Congress in 1853 (10 Stat. 170), and were, therefore, not in force when Sloo made his contract with the government, or his agreement with Roberts, Law, and others. That
agreement remains unaffected by them. They were in force,
however, when he made the general assignment of all his effects.
to Cheever and Wiles, and as the complainant claims through
it, and can probably succeed only in that way (because, as
we are informed, the State court of Indiana has decided that
the Statute of Limitations bars his claim as an ordinary debt),
we must inquire whether that assignment is void under the act
of Congress.
The statute has several times within the last few years received the consideration of this court. United States v Gillis,
95 U. S. 407, Spofford v Kirk, 97 id. 484, -Erwinv United
States, id. 392.
It is understood' that the Circuit Court sustained the demurrer under pressure of the strong language of the opinion
in Spofford v Zirk. We do not think, however, that the circumstances of the present case bring it withnn the one then
under consideration, or the principles there laid down. That
was a case of the transfer or assignment of a part of a disputed
claim, then in controversy, and it was clearly within all the
mischiefs designed to be remedied by the statute. Those mis-

GoODMIAN

v. NIBLACK.

[Sup. Ct.

chiefs, as laid down in that opinion, and in the.others referred
to, are mainly two First, The danger that the rights of the government might
be embarrassed by having to deal with several persons instead
of one, and by the introduction of a party who was a stranger
to the original transaction.
Second, That, by a transfer of such a claim against the government to one or more persons not originally interested in it,
the way might be conveniently opened to such improper influences ii prosecuting the claim before the departments, the
courts, or the Congress, as desperate cases, when the reward is
contingent on success, so often suggest.
Both these considerations, as well as a careful examination of
the statute, leave no doubt that its sole purpose was to protect
the government, and not the parties to the assignment. Erwin
v United States (supra), decided at the same term as Spofford
v Kirk, is suggestive on this point. It was there held that the
claim of a bankrupt against the United States passed by the
assignment in the bankruptcy proceeding to his assignee, and
that the latter, and not the original claimant, was the proper
person to sue in the Court of Claims. " The passing of claims
to heirs, devisees, or assignees in bankruptcy is not within the
evil at which the statute aimed," said the court. The language
of the statute, "all transfers and assignments of any claim
upon the United States, or of any part thereof, or any interest
therein," is broad enough (if such were the purpose of Congress) to include transfers by operation of law, or by will.
Yet we held it did not include a transfer by operation of
law, or in bankruptcy, and we said it did not include one
by will. The obvious reason of this is that there can be no
purpose in such cases to harass the government by multiplying the number of persons with whom it has to deal, nor
any danger of enlisting improper influences in advocacy of
the clain, and that the exigencies of the party who held it
justified and required the transfer that was made. In what
respec-t does the voluntary assiginent for the benefit of his
creditors, which is made by an insolvent debtor of all lhs
effects, which must, if it be honest, include a claim igainst
the government, differ from the assignment which is made in

Ot. 1880.]

GOODMAN v. NIBLACK.

bankruptcy? There can here be no intent to bring improper
means to bear in establishing the claim, and it is not perceived how the government can be embarrassed by such an
assignment. The claim is not specifically mentioned, and is
obviously included only for the just and proper purpose of
appropriating the whole of his effects to the payment of all
his debts. We cannot believe that such a meritorious act as
this comes within the evil which Congress sought to suppress
by the act'of 1853.
It is also to be remarked that the government had recognrzed Sloo's original assignment of his contract to Roberts,
Law, and Mcllvaine, as trustees, by permitting them to perform the contract and receive the pay under it for years, and
when a dispute arose as to the sum due under that contract,
Congress, by the act of July 14, 1870, very fully recognized
the validity of that transfer.
That act is in these words "Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled, that the
claim of the trustees of Albert G. Sloo, for compensation for services
in conveying the United States mails by steamers, direct between
New York and Chagres, in addition to the regular service required
under the contract niade between the said Albert G. Sloo and the
United States be, and the same is hereby, referred to the Court of
Clams, and the said court is hereby directed to examine the same,
and determine and adjudge whether any, and if any. what, amount
is due said trustees for said extra service, provided that the amount
to be awarded by said court shall be upon the basis of the value of
conveying other first-class freight of like quantity with the mails
actually carried between the same points at the same time.'"
This is still further recognized by the appropriation to pay
this judgment "to Marshall 0. Roberts and E. N Dickerson,
surviving trustees of A. G. Sloo," found in chapter 3 of the
Second Session of the Forty-fifth Congress. 20 Stat. 7
The first agreement of Sloo, therefore, is unassailable.
His assignment to Cheever and Wiles, in 1860, conveyed
only his interest in the profits of the contract which the parties
in the first assignment were performing or had performed for
the government.
VOL. XII.
36

GOODMAN

v.

NIBLACK.

[Sup. Cf.

The general assignment of Sloo, in 1860, gave Cheever and
Wiles no right to assert a claim against the government.
They could only deal with the trustees under the first'assignment, and on them they had only the claim for net profits
which came into their hands. Cheever and Wiles and the
present complainant were neither of them capable of suing the
United States in the Court of Claims, or of presenting the matter before the accounting officers of the government, and could
give no valid or just acquittance to the government for any
part of the claim.
We do not think the transfer to Cheever and Wiles, as trustees for Sloo's creditors, is forbidden by the act of 1853, or by
any other principle of law or of public policy
But we are of opinion that Cheever and Wiles are not only
proper but necessary parties to this suit. The entire sum to
which the estate of Sloo could possibly be entitled was assigned to them. The trust on which it was assigned remains
unexecuted. They are charged with having received $37,000
of that fund. What' have they done with it?
If, as alleged in the bill, there are no other debts of Sloo
secured by the assignment, this sum in their hands should be
accounted for before a decree is rendered against his administrator. They are charged with consenting, to the payment to
the administrator of the fund now sought in this suit. There
may have been good reasons for it, and if not, they may be
personally liable for it. The fund can only be subjected to
the complainant's debt through these trustees. It is only in
right of the assignment to them that lie proceeds. They are
living, and cannot be divested of this trust by any decree to
which they are not parties. The administrator has a right, if
a decree is rendered against him, to have it made effectual
against them.
Notwithstanding the allegation of the bill that all the liabilities of the trust fund except the complainant's debt have been
discharged, this may not be so, and it may be in the power of
these trustees, and it may be their duty, if made parties to this
suit, to show that there are others entitled to share in it. No
decree against that fund can rightfully be made while they are
not before the court.

Oct. 1880.]

GOODBIAN V. NIBLACK.

This, however, need not defeat the jurisdiction of the court
if the bill is amended by making them defendants.
This is a proceeding in equity to enforce a lien on the fund
which is within reach of the court, and as the trustees and
complainant have the requisite citizenship, sect. 738 of the
Revised Statutes provides a remedy for inability to serve process by an order of publication. If they appear, the suit will
proceed as usual. If they do not appear, the decree, so far as
it affects the fund in the hands of Niblack, will bind them,
and this is all that is necessary to give the court jurisdiction
to grant the relief prayed for by the complainant.
If the decree of the Circuit Court had dismissed the case
without prejudice for want of proper parties, we should have
been bound to affirm it. But standing as it does now, it is a
decision on the merits of the case and a bar to any other suit.
It must, therefore, be reversed and remanded to that court.
If the complainant shall ask leave to amend his bill by making
Cheever and Wiles defendants, he should be permitted to do
so and proceed with his case. If he does not do this. a decree
should be entered dismissing the bill for want of these parties
and without prejudice to any other suit on the merits. Shtelds
v Barrow, 17 How 130, Barney v Baltimore City, 6 Wall.
280, House v tdullen, 22 id. 42, Zendig v Dean, 97 U S.
423.
The decree will be reversed, and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this, opinion, and it is
So ordered.

