Oct. 1880.]

EX PARTE PERRY.

this act of Congress, a railroad company, under the power of
eminent domain granted by the State, can appropriate his
improvements to its own use without his consent and without
making him compensation. This, we think, is a Federal question giving us jurisdiction, but it is a, question on which we do
not care to hear argument. The controversy is not between
the public and the riparian owner as to his right to keep up his
improvements. The public does not complain, but the railroad
company wants the improvements. In the hands of the company they will be just as much a nuisance, so far as the public
is concerned, as they can be if kept up by the owner. As between these two parties the improvements are the property of
the riparian proprietor, and if the company wants them for its
own use it must make compensation. So the court below has
decided, and to our minds its decision was clearly right. While
m Iowa it has been held that the State owns the lands lying
along the river between high and low water mark, care was
taken in the act of March 18, 1874, to provide- that it should
not be lawful for any person or corporation to construct or
operate any railroad or other obstruction between the shore
and the river without compensation to the shore owners. The
second section of the act is good, even though the first may conflict with what Congress had before done.
The motion to dismiss is denied, but that to affirm granted.
Judgment affirmed.

Ex PARTE PERRY.
This court will not by mandamus compel an inferior court to reverse a decision
made in the exercise of its jurisdiction.

for mandamus.
The petitioners filed their libel against the ship "Civilta"
and the steam-tug "Restless," in the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York. The
vessels were seized under process sued out of that court, but
were released on the claimant of each giving the requisite stipulation for value.
PETITION

EX PARTE PERRY.

[Sup. Ct.

From a decree against the claimants they respectively prayed
and perfected an appeal to the Circuit Court. A decree was
there rendered, Oct. 26, 1877, in favor of the libellants, amounting in damages, interest, and costs to the sum of $11,400.90,
which was apportioned equally between the two vessels. The
decree provided that on the payment by the claimant of either
vessel of one-half of the amount, with interest thereon to the
date of payment, the proceedings against such vessel and her
claimant be stayed for the collection of the residue until the
return by the marshal of an execution unsatisfied against theclaimant of the other vessel for the other half part of said
amount, or until it should otherwise appear that the libellants
were unable to enforce or collect the other part of said damages, costs, and interest against the claimant of the other vessel
by process from that court.
The court further adjudged that unless the decree be fulfilled
or satisfied, or proceedings stayed on appeal by filing security
"within ten days after service of a copy of the decree upon the
proctors for the claimants, the stipulators, on the appeal to
that court for damages and costs, should perform their engagements, or show cause within four days after the expiration of
said ten days, or on the first day of jurisdiction thereafter,
why execution should not issue against them, their goods, chattels, and lands.
Notice of an appeal to this court was given. The claimant
of the " Civilta" alone perfected his appeal within the required
time, and rendered it a supersedeas.
A summary judgment for $17,323.22 was rendered by the
Circuit Court, March 15, 1878, in favor of the libellants against
John G. Baker, William B. Fatch, and Edward P Hatch,
stipulators on the appeal to that court, Baker being the claimant of the "Restless." A transcript of this judgment was
filed in the office of the county clerk of Kings County, New
York.
Edward P Hatch was the owner of certain real estate in
Brooklyn, which he had contracted to sell, but, by reason of
the summary judgment, the vendee declined to complete the
purchase. The Circuit Court, Jan. 4, 1879, ordered, on notice
to all the parties, that on his depositing the sum of $6,200, the

Ot. 1880.]

EX PARTE PERRY.

price of said real estate, in the United States Trust Company
simultaneously with the delivery to him of the deed, the lien of
the judgment on said real estate should be vacated, and that,
if the judgment should be set aside, the Trust Company should
pay to said Hatch such sum so deposited, with its accumulations, -" if not, the deposit, with its accumulations, to be held
subject to the further order of the court."
The deposit was made. The court, Jan. 3, 1879, denied a
motion to set aside the judgment. An execution was sued out
thereon May 7, 1879. The court, June 16, refused to direct
that the amount so deposited be applied upon the execution,
and made the further order, "that said sum of six thousand two
hundred dollars ($6,200) remain in the United States Trust
Company, provided the sureties, William B. Hatch and Edward
P Hatch, as principals, will give a bond to the libellants, with
a satisfactory surety, in the penalty of five thousand dollars
($5,000), conditioned that if, by the decision of the Supreme
Court of the United States, the ' Restless' and her sureties shall
be held liable for the amount decreed against them by this
court, to wit, five thousand seven hundred dollars and forty-five
cents (85,700.45), and interest thereon, then in such case John
G. Baker, the claimant of the ' Restless,' and said sureties, shall
pay into the registry of this court such an amount as will
cover the difference between interest upon said six thousand
two hundred dollars ($6,200), at the legal rate, and the sum
which shall have been earned by the said sum of six thousand two hundred dollars ($6,200) in the United States Trust
Company
"And the said William B. Hatch and Edward P Hatch
having now presented such a bond to this court, and the surety
named in said bond being satisfactory to, and said bond having
in all things been approved by, this court,"'the court further
ordered "that all proceedings on the part of said libellants and
of the marshal of this court, under the execution herein issued
to said marshal on the seventh day of May, 1879, to collect
out of the property of the said William B. Hatch or Edward
P Hatch the amount of the decree against the tug ' Restless'
now presently due, to wit, five thousand seven hundred dollars
and forty-five cents ($5,700.45), and interest, be and the same

[Sup. Ct.

EX PARTE PERRY.

are hereby stayed, with leave to said libellants to move this
court, on notice, for leave to proceed under said execution."
June 27, the court denied the motion of the libellants for
leave to proceed under the execution.
The petitioners pray this court for a rule upon the circuit
judge to show cause why a writ of mandamus should not be
issued, commanding him to vacate and set aside the order granting a stay of proceedings under the execution, and direct the
payment of the money deposited in the United States Trust
Company to the marshal of the United States, under said execution as aforesaid, or why they should not have such other or
further order, writ, or relief as may be just.
iAfr Robert D. Benedict for the petitioners.
Mr John B. Parsons, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIOE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We cannot by mandamus correct the judicial errors committed
by an inferior court in the progress of a cause. Lx parte Schwab,
98 U. S. 240. We can in this way, in a proper case, compel an
inferior court to act, but cannot control its decisions while acting. In the present case it appears that the Circuit Court has
acted on the motion of the petitioner, and denied him what he
asked. The object of this proceeding is to obtain from us an
order requiring that court to reverse its former decision and
grant the relief it has once refused. That is the office of a writ
of error or an appeal, and not of a writ of mandamus. Exparte
Plippin, 94 U. S. 248, Ex parte Lormng, id. 418. Neither is
the case changed because the appropriate -remedy may involve
an inconvenient delay In Exparte Whitney (13 Pet. 404), it
was held that a writ of mandamus ought not to be used to correct orders made by a judge in the exercise of his authority,
even though such orders " may seem to bear harshly or oppressively upon the party" complaining.

Mandamus r'efused.

