Oct. 1880.]

BROOKS V. RAILROAD

CO.

Expenses to the amount of $627.20, including counsel fees,
were allowed to the complainant beyond the taxable costs,
which, together with the entire interest allowed, must be deducted from the decree. From which it follows that the decree
in favor of the complainant, instead of being $11,184.42, should
be $9,992.09, without interest, but with costs of suit, as allowed
in the decree of the Circuit Court, and the decree is modified
so as to conform to that computation, but without any injunction, as the term of the patent has expired.
The decree, as modified, will be affirmed, without interest or
costs, the costs of this court to be paid by the appellee, and
it is
So ordered.

BRooKs v. RAiLRoAD CouPANY.
A petition for a rehearing cannot be filed after the term at which the judgment
was rendered.

for leave to file a petition -for rehearing.
This case was, on appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Iowa, determined at the last
term. It is reported in 101 U. S. 443.
MOTION

Hr Joseph E. leDonald and Mr John M. Butler in support
of the motion.
MRt. CmrEF JusTIcE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
A petition for rehearing after judgment, under the rule promulgated in Public Schools v Walker (9 Wall. 603), cannot be
filed except at the term in which the judgment was rendered.
In Hudson J Smith v Guestier (7 Craneh, 1), a motion was
made at the February Term, 1812, for a rehearing in a case
decided two years before, but the court said "the case could
not be reheard after the term 'in which it was decided." At
the end of the term, the parties are discharged from further
attendance on all causes decided, and we have no power to
bring them back. After that, we can do no more than correct

GIDDINGS V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

any clerical errors that may be found in the record of what we
have done.
In Brown v Aspden (14 How 25), where the practice in
respect to orders for rearguments was first formally announced,
the rule in this particular was not extended, for Mr. Chief Justice Taney was careful to say that the order for reargument
might be made after judgment, provided it was entered at the
same term, and the same limitation is maintained in U-nited
States v Kfnight's Administrator,1 Black, 488. Down to that
time such an order could be made only on the application of
some member of the court who concurred in the judgment, and
this continued until Public Schools v Walker (supra), when
leave was given counsel to submit a petition to the same effect.
In all other respects the rule is now substantially the same as
it was before this relaxation.
lfotion dented.

GIDDINGS V. INSURANCE COX[PANY.
The charter of A., a mutual life insurance company, provides that "every person who shall become a member of the corporation, by effecting insurance
therein, shall, the first time he effects insurance and before he receives ins
policy, pay the rates that shall be fixed upon and determined by the trustees."
In August, 1872, C., A.'s agent, received from B. an application for a policy
upon his life for $6,000, duly made out upon a printed form furnished previously by C. A policy was issued by A., August 24, and forwarded to C. It
contains a proviso that it shall "not take effect and become binding on the
company until the premium be actually paid, during the lifetime of the person whose life is assured, to the company or to some person authorized to
receive it, who shall countersign the policy on receipt of the premium." The
premium to be paid by B. amounted to $302:52. The policy not having been
called for, C. returned it, October 2, to A., and it was thereupon cancelled.
Nothing beyond the delivery of the application to C. was done by B., or by
any one in his behalf. He died September 4. His administrator tendered the
first premium to C., who declined to act in the matter. Thereupon lie transmittel the proofs of B.'s death to A., and on the refusal of the latter to
accept the premium and deliver the policy brought tis suit against A. Held,
that the suit cannot be maintained, the payment of the premium m the lifetime of B. being a condition precedent to A.'s liability.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Northern District of Illinois.

