Oct. 1880.]

HuNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

HuNNIouTT v. PBYTONq.
1. Exceptions reserved at the trial of the cause may, within such time thereafter
during the term as the judge shall deem reasonable, be reduced to form
and presented to him for signature, and they are not waived by suing out
a writ of error before his signature is obtained.
2. Where, under such circumstances, bills of exceptions are signed during the
term, it is not necessary to render them effective that they be antedated, or
ordered to be filed nunc pro tunc, as of a time during the trial.
8. A party who, under article 24 of the Mexican law of 1825, procured from the
government, by purchase, a grant of public lands, could alienate it before
they were selected, and his formal act of sale, with a power to his alienee
to obtain the title of possession, constituted the latter the absolute owner
of them, when lie, by the proper officer, was furnished with the evidence of
title and put in possession. Where, therefore, the grant contained no specific description of the lands, but contemplated the selection and location
of them, the title of extension, when given to the alienee, is complete.
4. In questions of private boundary, the declaration of a deceased person of particular facts, as distinguished from reputation, is not admissible unless it
be shown that lie had knowledge of that whereof he spoke, and was then
on the land, or in possession of it, and was pointing out and marking the
boundary or discharging some duty in relation thereto. A declaration,
merely reciting something past, is within the rule which excludes hearsay
evidence.
5. The decisions of*the Supreme Court of Texas examined and held to be in
harmony with this ruling6. The possession of a person who, under color of title, enters upon vacant
lands, and holds adversely, is construed to include so much as is within the
boundaries of his title, and to that extent the true owner will be deemed to
be disseised. But if the latter be in actual possession of any part of the
lands whereon the entry is made, lus constructive seism extends to all not
m fact occupied by the intruder.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Texas.

This was an action brought by Bailie Peyton and others
against Hunnicutt and others to recover possession of a tract of
land in the county of Falls, Texas, being "four leagues of land
on the east of" left bank of the Brazos River, known as the
Gregoro Basquez survey of four leagues," and more particularly described in the amended petition as beginning at a stake
marked "P " on the east bank of the river Brazos, in the

county of Falls, State of Texas, at the point where the upper
line of'the Austin & Williams reserve, on the east side of said
river, intersects said river, running thence with said upper

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

334

[Sup. Ct.

line of the reserve N. 710 E. 20,220 varas to a stake, and crossing Isaac's Creek, thence S. 19' E. 5,000 varas to another stake
for the third corner, thence S. 710 W 18,320 varas, covering
again the aforesaid creek to a stake on the Brazos River for
the fourth corner, thence up said river to the place of beginning, covering an area of four leagues, fronting on said river
and lying within said Austin & Williams reserve, immediately
below and adjoining said upper line of said reserve.

The defendants pleaded the general issue and the Statute
of Limitations. Sundry exceptions were taken during the
trial. The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiffs, on which
judgment was rendered. The defendants sued out this writ.
They assign for error that the court erred, 1. In admitting the documentary evidence set out in their
bill of exceptions, being certified copies of certain papers, and
in holding that they vested a legal title in Jonathan C. Peyton.
The copies are as follows, the plaintiffs offering in evidence
the original testzmonto of their title -

"1First,A power of attorney, with power of substitution, from
Gregorlo Basquez to Jayme Hartz, dated the twentieth day of September, eiglteen hundred and thirty-one.(1831).
"Power of -Attorney,with Power of Substitution.from Gregorto
Basquez to Xayrne Hartz.
"Second stamp -

twelve reales.

"Legalized for the State of Coahuila and Texas for the years
1828, '29, '30, & '31.
"By commission

"JESUS DE LOS SANTOS COY

"In the town of Nacogdoches, on the twentieth day of September, 1831, before me, the citizen Manuel de los Santos Coy, sole
constitutional alcalde of the aforesaid town, and instrumental witnesses hereinafter named, besides those of my assistants with whom
I act agreeably to the law, appears the citizen Gregorio Basquez,
of this jurisdiction, in his proper person, whom I declare to know,
and who says That by these presents he executes, gives, and
confers all his power, full, ample, and sufficient, whatever may be
required by law and is necessary or may be of value, to Don
Jayme Hartz, of this jurisdiction special, that he, in representations
and use of the rights and interests which pertain to the grantor,

Oct. 1880.]

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

may solicit of the. person or persons authorized to that effect, the
possession and titles of eleven leagues of land, which he has obtained from the supreme government of the State by way of purchase, with the authority to empower him to solicit in the place
or places which best suits him, together or separate, according to
the tenor of the concession of the date ofillth March of this year,
which I declare to have seen.
"And the grantor has placed in the hands of his attorney that
he may do and perform, in the name of the grantor, all whatsoever
he might do were he actually present, since for all as aforesaid,
annexed, concerning, incident, and pertaining, he gives and confers
the inost ample and extensive power, without any limitation whatever, and without which, by default of any clause or requisite, he
gives to this power all the force and effect, whatever the same may
be, as if the same was herein literally written and inserted.
"That he may appoint substitutes, revoke the same and appoint
others anew, with free, frank, and general administration in form,
since for all he relinquishes by this act whatever the law permits,
and acknowledges all whatsoever his attorney may do or perform
by virtue of this power of attorney, binding his person and property
in every form, and renounces all laws in his favor.
"In testimony whereof thus he executes, as he does not know
how to write, he makes the sign of the cross, there were present,
as instrumental witnesses, the citizens Martin Ybarvo, Antonio
Menchaca, and OarlosGil, residents of this town, and those of my
assistants in the form prescribed by law, to which I certify.
"MANUEL DE LOS SANTOS COY.

"0Sign of the cross of"Ass. witness
"Ass. witness

'

"GREG oo BASQuEZ.
JESUS DR LOS SANTOS COY.
VITAL FLORES.

+

"This testimono agrees with the original which remains in the
archive of the public documents of this municipality, which goes
truly and legally compared and corrected, and at its transcribing,
correction, and comparing the same, there was found the same
instrumental witnesses who were present at its execution, besides
those of my assistants, with whom I act in the form prescribed by
law, to which I certify.
"MANUEL DE LOS SANTOS COY.
"Ass. witness

JEsus

Dg LOS SANTOS COY.

"Ass. witness VITAL FLORES."

HlUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Second, An act of sale by Gregorio Basquez to the said Jayme
Hartz of his concession in sale, which had been made to him by
Santiago del Valle, on the eleventh day of farch, eighteen hundred and thirty-one (1831), bearing date Sept. 22, eighteen hundred
and thirty-one (1831).
" Act of Sale, Basquez to

artz.

"Third stamp-two reales. [STAmiP.] For the years 1830 and 1831.
" MOST EXCELLENT SIR, - Gregorio Basquez, a native of the
city of lexico, and now residing in this town, with the due respect
to your excellency I would represent, that understanding the provisions of the twenty-fourth article of the colonization law of the
State, of 24th Marcl, 1825, and in virtue of being a native Mexican, with due respect to youi excellency, I pray you be pleased to
grant me in sale eleven leagues of land on the vacant territory of
thins
department, with the privilege of selecting them together or
separate, or in distinct places, as may suit me, with the understanding that I offer to settle and cultivate them as customary, that it
may be to the purpose within the term which the law prescribes,
making the payments of its value on the terms and at the places
designated in the twenty-second article, and to sustain the right of
the country, and of the State, and all othe that may be in conformity with the laws which govern us and under their protection.
" I pray your excellency be pleased to do as aforesaid, in which
I will receive favor.
"NAcoGDocuEs, Sept. 28, 1830.
"GitEGoRio

BASQILEZ.
0

"LE oxA VICARIO, March 11, 1831.
"In conformity with the twenty-fourth article of the colonization
law of 24th March, 1825, I grant by sale to the petitioner the eleven
leagues of land that he solicits oii the vacant territory of the State
at the place that may best suit him, after the commissioner of the
supreme general government shall have set apart a sufficiency of
land for the payment of the debt due by the State to the Federation. The commissioner for the partition of land in the enterprise
to which pertain the land solicited by the petitioner, and in his
default, or that the same not being embraced by any enterprise
whatever, the first or sole alcalde of the respective jurisdiction will
comply with the orders on the subject and put him in possession of
said leagues, and issue the proper title, previously classifying the
quality of them, for according to their designation he shall satisfy

Oct. 1880.]

HU

icUT

v. PEYTON.

the State, for the payment of which I concede him the times designated in the twenty-second article of the aforesaid law
"Let a copy of his petition and this decree be given by the secretary of state to the interested party, so that upon application
with it to the commissioner it may have the desired effect.
"LETONA.
"SANTIAGO

DEL VALLE,

Secretary.

"A copy of the original on file in the archives of the office of the
secretary of state, in my charge, from whence it was taken by
orders of his excellency the governor.
"LEONA VIcARIo, March 14, 1831.
" SANTIAGO DEL VALLE, Sec'y.
"Second seal

-

twelve reales.

"Furnished for the State of Coahuila and Texas, for the terms
1828 and '29.
"By the commissioner,
"JEsUS DE LOS SANTOS COY.
"In the town of Nacogdoches, the twenty-second day of the
month of September, 1831, before me, citizen named de los Santos
Coy, sole constitutional alcalde of the said town, and the instrumental
witnesses, whose names appear at the end of this document, assisting me to authenticate the same in the absence of a notary appointed conformably to law, appeared the citizen Gregorio Basquez,
of this district, in whom I placed confidence and with whom I am
personally acquainted, and said that embracing the right which the
twenty-seventh article of the colonization law of the State of the
24th oi March, 1.825, gives him, he applies for the present order of
sale by which he has sold really and publicly in fee and for ever
Don Jayme Hartz of this vicinity, as follows "A grant of the supreme government of the State dated 11th of
March, of the present year, of eleven leagues of land located on the
public domain in this department, which was sold him by virtue of
the twenty-fourth article of the colonization law above cited, with
thb same conditions, privileges, and obligations which were imposed
upon the petitioner for whose possession and title he has granted a
special power to the same purchaser, dated the 20th of the present
month and the term of our Lord already given, for the price and
sum of one hundred and fifty dollars, which he acknowledges having received in current coin to his satisfaction, wherefore he renounces the laws of non numerata pecunsa no entrego e prueba, it
VOL. xi.
22

[Sup. Ct.

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

being an express condition that the purchaser shall pay the costs
of the surveyor, commissioner, paper, sealing, enrolling of the titles,
and the claims of the State for the usual price of the lands conformably to its quality, and for all the legal charges that may be considered as an augmentation of the price mentioned above in the
sale by the said commissioner, and declared that this is the just
value of the said. lands, but if they are worth more le makes a
surplus and remainder, a pure, more perfect, and irrevocable gift
and donation to the purchaser and surrenders the right called hiter
vvos, and for the security and surety of this sale he pledges the
personal property that he now has or may have, and with it lie
submits lnimself to the law and jurisdiction of the judges and justices of the State, and particularly to those in this town, to whom lie
gives the same competency for exercising every right and executive
obligation as if their decrees were authoritative judicial decrees.
He renounces his proper judicial domicile and vicinity, the law st
cum
de jurzsdlctione omnum yuclicum. with the [' geneyal']
of the right in respect to form.
"In testimony of which, as the petitioner was not able to write,
he made a cross, the citizens Martine Ubarvo, Antonio Menchaca,
and Charles Gil, present and living in the said town, instrumental
witnesses with myself and those assisting me in the form prescribed
according to law, to which I hereby certify
" MAlNUEL DE LOS SANTOS

"Sign of the cross of-

"GREGonTo

BAQUEZ.

COY.

+

"De asistencia JEsus D, LOS SANTOS COY.
"'De asistencia. VITAL FLORES.
"I have compared this testimonial with its orignal, which is
placed in the archives of the public instruments of this municipality,
and which is faithfully and legally corrected and compared, and at
the copying, correcting, and comparing of which were present as
instrumental witnesses the same as are attached to this grant,
besides those assisting me authenticating in the form prescribed by
law, to which I certify.
" M\ANUEL DE LOS SANTOS COY

"IDe asistencia.
"1De asistencia

JESUS DE LOS SANTOS COY.
VITAL FLORES."

" Thr'd, A substitution of Jonathan C. Peyton by Jayme Hartz,
to be the attorney of Gregorio Basquez, bearing date March 2
(1832), eighteen hundred and thirty-two.

Oct. 1880.]

O 0UNNIOUTT

V. PEYTON.

"In the town of San Felipe de Austin, on the second day of
March, 1832, before me the citizen Horatio Chriesman, first alcalde
of the municipality, and witness Jayme Hartz, a resident of Nacogdoches, exercising the authority conferred on him by the preceding
power of attorney, consents to substitute it in all and for all, on
Jonathan C. Peyton, of this jurisdiction,. tb whom he relinquishes
and accordingly does relinquish, binding the property bounden in
said power of attorney, and agreeing to the substitution in form
and signs it, whom I declare to know, there being as witiesses
Don Amos Gates and Samuel Gates, residents of this colony
"Ass. witness

"Ass. witness

FRAxoIs

" HORATIO

CEIESMAN.

ADAMS.

HYMAN HERTZ.
" OLIVER JONES2'

".Fourth, An act of sale of the concession of Basquez, by Jayme
Hartz to Jonathan C. Peyton, bearing date March 2 .(1832), eighteen hundred and thirty-two.
"S ello segundo -

doce reales.

"Furnished for the State of Coahuila and Texas for the terms
1828 and '29, '30, and '31.
"WILLIAMS.
"In the town of San Felipe de Austin, 2d of March, 1832,
before me, the citizen Horatio Chriesman, first alcalde for this
municipality, and the instrumental witnesses which were named at
the conclusion of this paper, besides those assisting me to give it
authenticity in the absence of a notary, appeared the citizen Jayme
Hartz, of Nacogdoches, in whom I have confidence and with whom
I am personally acquainted, and said he acknowledges the present
agreement, and has sold really and publicly, in fee and for ever,
to the citizen Jonathan C. Peyton, of this vicinity, a grant of the
supreme government of the State, dated 11th of March, the year
last passed, of eleven leagues of land located on the public domain
of this departpment, which was sold to the citizen Gregorino Basquez,
of the municipality of Nacogdoches, by virtue of the twenty-fourth
article of the colonization law of the 24th of March, 1825, which,
b-y a public instrument of sale dated 22d September, 1831, and one
which is authentic, having seen it myself, he transferred, confirmed,
and sold the said grant of eleven leagues of land to your petitioner,
by which possession and title he granted him especial power under

[Sup. Ot.

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

date of the same month and year, and in which I have confidence,
having seen it also, and which is hereby transferred to the purchaser, and which documents your petitioner will place in ]is
hands, and he hereby concedes to him the said grant of eleven
leagues of land upon the same conditions, privileges, and obligations that were imposed upon the said Gregorio Basquez by the
governor, for the price and sum of five hundred dollars, wnch he
acknowledges to have received in the current coin to his full satisfiaction, upon which he renounces the laws non numerata pecunta
no entrego e prueba, it being upon the express condition that the
purchaser will pay the charges of the surveyor, commissioner, papersealing, recording of title, and claims of the State for the original
price of the land conformably to its quantity, and for all other legal
charges which may be considered as an augmentation of the said
price for which lie has sold the said grant, and he declares that
tlns is thejust value of the said lands, but if they are worth more or
less the excess or surplus he makes a gift or donation to the purchaser pure, more perfect, and irrevocably; and for the sanctity
and security of this sale he binds his person and property that he
has or may have, and with them submits himself to the jurisdiction
and judgment of the tribunal which in this matter ought to adjudicate, and lie gives them the same competency for exercising every
right and executive obligation as if they were decrees authoritatively passed and properly adjudicated.
"lie renounces all the laws which could favor him and prevent
his general renunciation. In testimony of which I grant this and
name with myself the instrumental witnesses, D'n Amos Gates
and Samuel Gates, citizens of this municipality, to which I certify
as well as those assisting me.
"HORATIO

"HYMAi

CHRIESMAN.

HARTZ.

"De Asistencia OLIVER JONES.
"De Asistencia. FRANcIs ADAms.
"TREASURY

DEPARTMENT,, OFFICE OF COMMIR OF

REVENUE.

Sept. 19, 1840.
"Received of H. W Raglin the sum of twelve hundred dollars
in the promissory notes of the government, being the amount of
dues upon the within fifty labors of arable land and ten hundred
and twenty-five labors of pasture-land granted to Gregorio Basquez,
title dated Oct. 7, 1833, as appears from the certificate of John

Oct. 1880.]

ORHUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

P Borden, commissioner of the general land-office, now on file in
the office, payment made by the administratrix of J. C. Peyton,
att'y.
" 81,200.
"E. L. STICKNEY, Acting Comm'r of Bev.
"I, Harrison Owen, county clerk of records in and for the
county of Robertson, do certify that a true copy of the within is
entered on record m my office at Franklin this third day of April,
A.D. 1841.
"HA Risox OwEN,CO. Rec. _B. C.
"Recorded in book C, pages from 110 to 125. Paid by B. Gillespie,
my fees, par funds."
,'1
Tifth, Grant or title fi'om Luke Lesassier, alcalde, &c., of eleven
leagues of land (including the four in controversy) to Jonathan C.
Peyton, attorney of Gregono Basquez, of date eighteen hundred
and thirty-three (1838).
"Third stamp -

two reales.

"Legalized for the State of Coahuila and Texas for the years 1828,
'29, '30, '31, '82, & '83. Williams.
"In the town of San Felipe de Austin, on the seventh day of
October, 1833, 1, the citizen Luke Lesassier, constitutional alcalde
of this town and its jurisdiction, in the exercise of the authority
which has been conferred on me by the supreme government of this
State, by decree dated at Leona Vicario, on the 11th March, 1831,
and in consideration of the sale executed by the aforesaid supreme
government in favor of Gregorio Basquez, a native of the city of
Mexico, then residing in the town of Nacogdoches, of eleven leagues
of land, as will appear from the superior decree of sale, dated in the
aforesaid Leona Vicario on the eleventh day of March, 1831, and
presented by his attorney, Jonathan C. Peyton, as will be seen on
pages 3 and following of this proceeding , and in attention to the
superior order of his excellency the lieutenant-governor, dated on
the twenty-ninth day of January of this year, and circulated by the
chief of this department on the 19th of last February, repealing the
provisional decree of the supreme government of the State in.relation to those citizens to whom had been granted land not being permitted to take possession of them until the commissioner-general
of the nation shall have made a reservation, and inasmuch as none
of those eleven leagues applied for by the interested party are at

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

[Sup. Gt.

any of those points ceded to the federation by the aforesaid order
and in view of the approval granted by the empresarios Messrs.
Austin and Williams, written upon the first page of this proceeding,
as the lands belong to the enterprise of said empresarios-in conformity with the colonization law of the State of 24th March, 1825,
and in the name of the State, I confer upon and put the aforesaid attorney of the citizen Gregorio Basquez in real, virtual, personal, and
actual possession of eleven leagues of land, the same which he has
asked for and that the government has sold to him upon the Brazos River, the situation, lines, limits, and corners of the same are
delineated in the notes of survey made by the principal scientific
surveyor, Francis W Johnson, on pages two, and following of this
proceeding, with the figure thereof shown in the map hereunto
annexed. The aforesaid lands, by said notes of survey, are, in the
opinion of the surveyor, to be of the arable class in two leagues,
and of the pasture class in nine leagues.
"I, the commissioner and alcalde aforesaid, in the exercise -of the
authority conferred on me by the law, do declare, in accordance
with said classification, he shall satisfy the Statd in the sum of one
thousand two hundred dollars, according to the provision in the
twenty-fourth article of the aforesaid colonization law, dated on the
24th Mlarch, 1825, and in the terms designated in the twenty-second
article of the same law, under the penalties therein established,
being notified that within one year he shall construct permanent
landmark at each angle of the land, that he shall cultivate the
same in conformity with the provisions in the aforesaid law, and
scrupulously comply with all ordained in it, and other enactments
on the subject.
"Therefore, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the aforesaid decree of the supreme government of the State, and other
orders from the same government on the subject, by the law and
pursuant instructions which guide me, I issue the present title, and
order that an authenticated copy be taken of it, and let it be delivered to the interested party, that lie may possess, use, and enjoy
the lands which have been sold to him, his children, heirs, and successors, or whoever of him or of them may have cause, interest, or
right to represent, for such is the will of the State. Given at the
town of San Felipe de Austin, on the day and date above written,
which I sign, with assisting witnesses, according to law
"L. LnSASSIER.
"Ass. witness Wr T LIGnTFOOT.
"Ass. witness C. C. GIvEis."

Oct. 1880.]

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

II. In admitting as evidence the papers set forth m the foregoing assignment of error, inasmuch as they do not identify
and describe any definite parcel of land.
III. In admitting the testimony of Horatio Chriesman to
prove by the declarations of Moore, who is now deceased, that
the Basquez grant was surveyed by the latter on the reserve
line or at any other particular place, such evidence being
merely hearsay
IV In admitting his testimony wherein he undertakes to
tell what Moore told him about the location of the Austin &
Williams reserve line and the Basquez grant, particularly that
Moore informed him in 1834 that he bad made the survey of
the said four-league Basquez grant, that the upper line of said
grant began on the east side of the Brazos River, at the point
where the upper line of the reserve began, and that the upper
line ran north 71 degrees east, with the reserve line, the full
distance of the Basquez line, and that the upper line of the
Bas.quez and the upper line of the reserve were the same to the
extent of the Basquez line, -because there was no proof that
the upper line of Austin & Williams's reserve was ever in fact
run, or was ever required by law order, or decree to be run, and
because there is Ro call in said Basquez's grant for said line,
and because said witness did not state that Moore ever pointed
out the place on the ground where he had run either the Basquez line or the said reserve line, and because the testimony
was hearsay.
V In admitting in evidence the following documents "THE STATE OF TEXAS,

" County of -Falls
To the .Honorablethe Dtstrict Court sn and for the County of
TF"alls
"In pursuance of an order made at the last or fall term of said
court (A.D. 1869), directing the undersigned surveyors to proceed
and run, or make any survey necessary, and show by report to
what extent, if any, the land claimed by J. C. Pool, plaintiff, and
C. Jones, defendant, conflicts, and also the land claimed by Rhoda
B. Huckins et als., plaintiffs, conflict, if any, with the land claimed
by and in possession of J C. Pool, defendant, said land situated
in Falls County, on the east margin of the Brazos River.

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

[Sup. Ct.

"In accordance with said order we, the undersigned surveyors,
met on the eleventh day of November, A.D. 1869, at what is known
as the Falls of the Brazos, on the east margin of said stream, and
all the parties having been notified, and being present, either by
themselves or attorneys, we ascertained by the calls of the A. De
la Serda grant and the field-notes of the Jose M. Sanches survey,
together with a full and complete examination of lines and natural
marks, the precise locality of the southern line of the said La Serda
grant, it being the northern line of the said Sanches survey, and
for a more particular description refbrence is hereby made to our
accompanying plat, which is made a part of this report.
"We then proceeded to ascertain the boundaries of the Gregorio
Basquez grant, and finding that the surveyor of Austin & Williams's colony located the same on what is known as Austin &
Williams's reserve line, after searching we found marks, corresponding in age and course, in post-oak timber, near the north end of
what is known as Hog Island. After tracing said marks about
fifteen miles, and finding the line to run N. 71 E., running from
the Brazos iRiver, and judging from the age of the marks and
com'se of the line, together with the facts that after it passed the
said Basquez N. E. corner it ran across, and without respect to all
the known surveys of the section it passed, and there being no
corners made on it, we were entirely satisfied that we were on said
reserve line.
"We then ran the northern boundary of the Basquez to the east
bank of the Brazos River, and found the following results "That all the land claimed by said J C. Pool is included within
the boundaries of the said Basquez and the said Sanches survey, as
set forth in our accompanying plat of said survey, this the 16th of
November, 1869.
"S. W BINGnAM.
R. F

W

S.

J. H.

ALEXANDER.

HUNIOUTT.
COLLARD.

"THE STATE OF TEXAS,

" County qf Ealls.
"Personally appeared before the undersigned authority Sam. W
Bingham, R. F Alexander, W S. Hunicutt, and J H. Collard,
whose names are signed to the foregoing report, who, after being
duly sworn by me, on oath declare that said report is true and
correct in the facts therein stated, and the conclusion arrived at

Oct. 1880.]

O 0UNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

is true and correct, according to their opinion as scientific surveyors.
"To certify which I hereto sign my name and affix my seal of
office on-this sixteenth day of November, 1869.
"SAMUEL M. D~ALTON, D C.FC
"To the Clerk of the United States lDistrict Court for the Western
.Districtof Texas, at Austin
"ANGELINA B. EBERLY et als.
VS.
JAMES MARLIN et als.

"SIR, -In
obedience to the commands of an order of survey
issued from under your hand and seal, in your official capacity of
the clerk of the District Court of the United States for the Western
District of Texas, at Austin, commanding me to survey a certain
tract of land containing four leagues, situated in this county, on the
eastern margin of the Brazos River, below the Great Falls thereof,
and to ascertain the lines thereof, which land is claimed by the
plaintiffs to the above-entitled cause, and which order of survey
issued in said cause, and which land was titled to one Gregorio
Basquez, I proceeded in last summer (the date not now being remembered) to search for said lines, and about one mile and a half
below the Great Falls of the Brazos, where on its eastern margin I
found a line to start out from the river at a course of N. 680 E., in
a weed-prairie, and at 9,170 varas from the river crossed Big Creek,
at 20,220 varas fiom the river corners in prairie, strike prairie at
about 12,500 varas. I then ran south 210 E., at right angles with
said line at 4,870. I found another old line running S. 600 W t6
the river at 17,266 varas, making a difference in the length of the
two lines of 2,960 varas.
"I found the league and labor of land surveved and located in
the name of James Marlin to be entirely in conflict with the beforerecited survey
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this the
29th of December, 1857.
"W S. HUNNIOUTT.
"I, W S. Hunnicutt, a dept. surveyor for Robertson's landdistrict, do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct
statement of facts to the best of my knowledge. Given under my
hand and seal this 29th December, A. D. 1857.
"W
S. HUNNICUTT,
"Dept. iSurveyor for Robertson's Land District."

HIUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

[Sup. Ct.

To which the defendants objected, on the ground, among
other reasons, that they were not parties or privies to said
cause.
VI. In refusing to charge the jury that the concession to Sanchez authorized the owner of said concession to appropriate five
leagues of the public domain, and, having shown an older survey
than the survey by virtue of the concession to Basquez, the said
Sanchez title is the superior title for the lands covered by it.
VI. In charging the jury on the question of limitation, and
in refusing to charge that, if the jury believed from the testimony that the ancestor of the defendants, Churchill Jones,
entered upon that part of the John Marlin league which is in
conflict with the Basquez, as claimed by the plaintiffs, at any
time before the plaintiffs or their ancestor made an entry on
said Basquez, and that said defendants and their ancestor had
so remained in said possession of the lands claimed by them
for three years or more before the institution of suit, then they
should find in favor of the defendants, Watson, Bartlett, and
W H. Jones, on their plea of limitation.
VIII. In refusing to charge the jury that, if they believed
from the evidence that at the date of the purchase by Churchill Jones from the heirs of John Marlin in 1858, the said Jones
had no notice by the county map, or other records, or otherwise, of any conflict of the John Marlin league with the Basquez grant, they should find for the defendants, Watson and
bhildren, Bartlett and wife, and William I. Jones, even if they
should find that the location as claimed by the true location of
said Basquez grant.
IX. In rendering judgment on the verdict of the jury, because
the same is indefinite, uncertain, and does not find the main
issue in the case, viz., how much of the defendants land, if
any, is covered by the plaintiffs' grant.
The charge to the jury complained of in the seventh assignment of error is set forth ii the opinion of the court.
1r Lev?.
I
Goodrich and Mr Matthew if. Carpenter for the
plaintiffs in error.
The papers admitted by the court below, if evidence at all,
show legal title in Basquez. The right asserted by the plaintiffs is, therefore, cognizable only in a court of equity The

Oct. 1880.]

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

concession and the final extension of title were to him, and no
deed appears from him. Hanrcl v Barton, 16 Wall. 166,
Shezrburn v Cordova et al., 24 How 423.
It is certainly the duty of the surveyor to run around. the
land intended to be embraced in the survey and patent, and
see that such objects are designated on it as will clearly point
out and identify the boundaries of the tract, and to extend a
correct description of these objects, natural or artificial, into
the field-notes of the survey, in order that they may be inserted
in the patent, so that the owner, as well as other locators, may
have the means of knowing precisely what land is granted. If
the lands cannot be identified by the calls in the grant, it is
void. Chtnowith v Haskell's Lessee, 3 Pet. 92, Henshaw v Bissell, 18 Wall. 255, beery v Cray, 10 id. 263, Boardman v
-eed, 6 Pet. 328, Guilbean v Mays, 15 Tex. 414, Booth v
Strippleman, 26 id. 440, Stafford v Zing, 30 id. 269, Phillips v Ayres, 45 id. 605; Bartlett v Hubert, 21 id. 20, Norms
v Hunt, 51 id. 609, Anderson v Stamps, 19 id. 460, Booth
v Upsher, 26 id. 69, Hubert v Bartlett, 9 id. 102, luller v
Landa, 31 id. 265, Welder v Carroll, 29 id. 317, Williamson
v Simpson, 16 id. 439, Shzpp v Miller, 2 Wheat. 316, Johnson v Paunel's .ters, id. 206, Bruckner v Lawrence, 2 Doug.
(Mich.) 19.
The concession authorizing the appropriation of eleven leagues
was sufficient authority to the local officer to sever that quantity from the vacant public domain, and put Basquez in possession of the land so appropriated. When this is done, the
floating right, evidenced by the concession, attaches to a certain specified locality, and the title is complete. Graham v
United States, 4 Wall. 259, Hannekc v Barton, 16 id. 166.
The charge to the jury set forth in the sixth assignment of
error should have been granted. Hollingsworth v Holshausen, 17 Tex. 44, Warren v Sherman, 54 id. 441, Landes v
Brant, 10 How..348, Miller v. Dale, 92 U. S. 473, Henshaw v
Bissell, 18 Wall. 255.
The testimony of the witness Chriesman was hearsay, and
should not have been admitted. Shutle v Tompson, 15 Wall.
151, Adams v Swanson, 116 Mass. 595, Long v Colton, id.
414, Hall v Mlayo, 97 id. 416.

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

[Sup. Ct.

The question as to the competency of hearsay testimony
to establish boundaries has often been judicially considered in
Texas. Where a corner or marked line has been pointed out
to the witness by a deceased person, who is shown to be in a
position to have a knowledge of the facts, the parol declaration
has been received, and where it appeared that the survey in
question was one of a block of surveys, or was surveyed at the
same tune by the same surveyor, the plat he made, or his fieldnotes of surrounding or contiguous surveys, have been received
to illustrate and identify the lines of the survey in question.
The Supreme Court of that State has not in any instance gone
beyond the rule as above stated. George v Thomas, 16 Tex.
74, Stroud v Sjpngfield, 28 id. 649, Welder v Carroll,29 id.
317, Evans v Hurt, 34 id. 111, Smith v Russell, 37 id. 247,
Hurt v Evans, 49 id. 311.
The objections to Chriesman's testimony may be summed up
as follows

-

Moore, whose declarations were received, was not shown by
evidence aliunde to be in a position to have a knowledge of the
facts to which his declarations relate. No line or corner, visible or imaginary, was pointed out to the witness, and he says
that he never saw any The statement testified to by him is
not a declaration, but a narration of the particular facts of
a then past occurrence. It does not appear that primary or
direct evidence of the location of the lines and corners of the
Basquez tract cannot be produced by the plaintiffs. If the evidence tends to prove any fact, it is that an actual survey was
made, and not where the lines or corners were placed, and it
does not appear therefrom that the land so surveyed by Moore
was or is embraced in the title under which the plaintiffs
claim. It is attempted by said testimony to repudiate the
description in the grant, and to locate the land claimed under
the same by adding to, varying, or contradicting the instrument itself. It does not appear that by proper search a tract
of land cannot be found corresponding in description with
every call in the plaintiff's title.
When there is only a partial conflict or interference of surveys, the statute will not run in favor of an adverse occupant
under a junior title, if his possession does not extend to that

Oct. 1880.]

HUNNICUTT

v. PEYTON.

part of the land in dispute which is within the conflict. Angell,
Lim., sect. 402, and numerous authorities in notes, Trmble v
Smith, 4 Bibb (Ky), 257, Fox v Hinton, md. 559, White v
Burnley, 20 How 235, Hole v Bittenhouse, 25 Pa. St. 491. The
possession which the owner of the junior title has of that part
of the land not within the interference, being lawful within
itself, is not, by construction, extended also to a presumed unlawful trespass upon that part embraced within the elder title.
For this purpose there must be an actual, visible, and exclusive
adverse possession of the land in controversy Wheeler v Moody,
9 Tex. 377, Gillespze v Jones, 26 id. 346, Whitehead v Foley,
28 id. 268. Such possession, if not continuous for the full
term limited by the statute, is insufficient, whether it be lost
by the voluntary act of the party, or by his forcible ouster, or
by a final judgment against him in a suit brought to recover
the estate. Shields v Boone, 22 Tex. 193.
Mr Samuel B. Fisherand iJftr PhilipPhillips, contra.
In Hanrck v Barton (16 Wall. 166), relied on by the plaintiffs in error in support of their proposition that Peyton's title
was an equitable and not a legal one, there was not, as in this
case, a deed from the original grantee.
If, as there held, a power of attorney from La Serda to
Roberts authorizing him to sell, and a substitution by Roberts
of Williams, and a sale by the latter, passed a legal title, surely
a sale from Basquez to Hartz, and from the latter to Peyton,
passed a legal title.
But by what law or test is the title of Peyton to be adjudged
an equitable one? Equitable and legal titles are founded upon
the distinction between equitable and legal estates, and there
cannot. be an equitable estate or title in one, without a corresponding legal estate or title in another. In other words, there
must be a trustee in whom the fee is vested, and a beneficiary
or cestui que trust.
In the case at bar, where and in whom is the fee or legal
estate 9 Where and in whom is the equitable estate 9 And
how was the trust created ?
The fee and absolute title were vested in Basquez, with the
power of disposing of it when the concession was made. All
the estate and interest of the. government were conveyed.

EIUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

[Sup. Ot.

Hancock v McKinney, 7 Tex. 384, lMartin v Parker, '26 id.
253.
The fee, then, is not in the government nor in him, for if
it passed to him, and he, having the power to do so, disposed
of it in express terms by his act of sale, it can only be in the
vendee. There is no room for a trust. The estate, expressly
limited in terms by the act of sale or deed from Basquez,
is an estate in fee, for he there declares "that he has sold,
really, publicly, and in fee and for ever," &c.
At the time of the acquisition of Peyton's title, as noted by
the Supreme Court of Texas in lMart.n v Parker (supra), the
common-law distinction between legal and equitable titles did
not obtain.
The case at bar does not involve the question of remedy
The question is one of estate, and must be determined by the
law in force when the title was acquired. Steinbach v Stewart,
11 Wall. 576, fTanrzck v Barton, supra, Rob.nson v Campbell, 3 Wheat. 212.
The difference between a M'[exican concession or grant by
sale, and a patent from the United States or a State, as noted
in Hanrick v Barton, is too obvious for comment.
The grant to Basquez being the primary title, and the extension to the land but the incident, the extension when made
related to the grant and vested in Peyton the absolute title
in fee, even if it did not, as we contend, pass when the grant
was made.
Peyton stands in privity with Basquez, who initiated the proceedings, and though the extension of title is not to be analogized to a patent, still, if necessary, the doctrine of estoppel and
relation may be invoked.
If applied for the purpose of justice in the case of a patent,
where the fee resides in the government until the patent issues,
it certainly should apply to a case where the government parts
with all its title when a grant is made. Barr v Gratz,
4 Wheat. 213, Stoddard v Chambers, 2 How 284, Landes v.
Brant, 10 id. 348, Bean v Welsech, 17 Ala. 770; Dickerson v
Talbot, 14 B. Mon. (Ky) 60, Cavender v Smith, 5 Iowa, 157,
Irvine v 'vIne, 9 Wall. 617, Langdeau v Hanes, 21 id. 521,
McCathy v. Mann, 19 id. 20.

Ot. 1880.]

IIUNNIOUTT V. PEYTON.

The genuineness of Peyton's title was admitted, possession
had been held under it for nearly twenty years, with paymentof taxes. The plaintiff below stood ready to prove, and did
prove to the satisfaction of the jury, its actual survey and
identity on the ground. The presumption was that the survey
had been made, and it was incumbent on the defendants to
repel it. Phillipsv Ayers, 45 Tex. 601, Jenkns v Chambers,
9 id. 167, Booth v Strzppleman, .26 id. 436. The action of
the alcalde in extending title on the survey is not to be examined with hypercritical spirit. Hancock v VtcKinney, 7 id.
°
384, Hancock v Horton, 11 id. 220.
There is no patent ambiguity in the grant, but the court
erroneously held that an actual survey was necessary to its
validity Stafford v King, 30 T6x. 537, Jones v Burgett, 46
id. 284, Newsom V Pryor, 7 Wheat. 7
No case in Texas or elsewhere can be produced where a
grant of this character, containing a specific description of
the granted premises, has been held absolutely void upon an
objection tn liminz.
To have so held in this case would have been confiscation
under the guise of construction. It is not necessary that the
grant itself should contain such a description as will, without the aid of extrinsic testimony, ascertain precisely what is
conveyed. If by such testimony it can be located, it should
not be held absolutely void for uncertainty Blake v -Doherty,
5 Wheat. 359, Cavazos v Trevmno, 6 Wall. 773, Bagsdale v
Bobnson, 48 Tex. 379, Williamson v Simpson, 16 id. 433,
Phillips v Ayers, 45 id. 601, Johns v Shutz, 47 id. 578,
Booth v Strippleman, 26 id. 436, Kingston v Pickens, 46 id.
99, Jones v Burgett, id. 284, Zohff v Germer, 37 id. 578,
Brownzng v Atkinson, id. 633, Stafford v King, 30 id. 257,
Bass v Mitchell, 22 id. 285, Miitchell v Burdett, id. 633, Bolton v Lann, 16 id. 96, Urquhart v Burleson, 6 id. 502.
The testimony of the witness Chriesman was clearly admissible. The Supreme Court of Texas has in a current of
decisions commencing in 1856, and continuing down to the
present day, held that reputation is admissible as evidence in
questions of private boundary, and has given to the unsupported declarations of a deceased person, as to where a line or

-

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

[Sup. Ct.

corner is, the weight of common reputation, and permitted
such declarations to be proved under the rule that in questions
of boundary hearsay is evidence. George v Thomas, 16 Tex.
74, Stroud v Sprnzgfield, 28 id. 649, Welder v Carroll, 29
id. 318, Wheeler v Hunt, 34 id. 47, Smith v Russell, 37 id.
247, Evans v Hurt, id. 111, Hurt v Evans, 49 id. 311.
In Stroud v Sprvngfield the following cases are cited and
approved Speer v Coate, 3 McCord (S. C.), 227, Blythe v
Sutherland, id. 258, Boardman v Reed, 6 Pet. 328, Shutte
v Thompson, 15 Wall. 151.
The rule established by these decisions has become so firmly
engrafted upon the laws of Texas as to become a rule of
property
It has also been adopted by many other States. Tate v.
Southered, 1 Hawks (N C.), 45, Shepherd v Thompson,
4 N. H. 213, 49 id. 230, Powers v Selsby, 41 Vt. 289, Higby
v Bidwell, 9 Conn. 447
Where the rules of evidence established by statute or by
the decisions of the highest tribunal of a State become a rule
of property, more especially in matters of real estate, they will
be followed by the courts of the United States. Waring v
Jackson, 1 Pet. 570, Hinde v lMattier, 5 id. 398, Hendersonv
Griffin, id. 151, Polk's Lessee v Wendell, 5 Wheat. 293, Jackson v Chew, 12 id. 153, Olcott v Bynum, 17 Wall. 44, Lloyd
v Fulton, 91 U S. 479, Lamborn v County Commisswoners,
97 id. 181, Orvs v Powell, 98 id. 176.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of ejectment brought to recover the possession of four leagues of land on the east bank of the Brazos
River, known as the Gregorio Basquez survey of four leagues.
The defence set up against the claim of the plaintiffs was the
general issue by which the title of the plaintiffs was denied,
as also the wrongful entry of the defendants. The Statutes of
Limitation were also pleaded.
At the trial in the Circuit Court a verdict was obtained by
the plaintiffs, upon which a judgment was entered, and the
defendants have brought the case here, assigning several errors
to the rulings in the lower court.

Oct. 1880.]

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

Before proceeding to examine them, it is necessary to notice
an objection interposed by the plaintiffs against their being
considered at all.
The verdict.was rendered on the 17th of February, 1877,
and judgment thereon was entered on the same day On the
19th of the same month the defendants moved for a new trial.
This motion was overruled on the 20th. Two days afterwards
(on the 24th) the writ of error was sued out, tested on that
day It does not appear when the writ was filed or served.
A citation was also issued on the 24th of February and returned by the marshal, received in his office Septemaber 3, and
served the same day
The defendants' bills of exception upon which their assignments of error are founded were signed by the judge on the
28th of February, and filed in the cause on the 1st of March
next following. This was during the term at which the cause
was tried, but eleven days after the verdict was rendered. The
plaintiffs' counsel was present when the bills were signed, and
objected on the ground that they were not presented for signature within the time limited by the rule of the court. That
rule w~s as follows "No bill of exceptions will be signed
unless presented to the judge within five days after the close
of the trial, unless further time be allowed by the court." No
objection was made to the correctness of the bills or to-their
signature because a writ of error had been sued out.
On the 1st of March an order was made by the court extending the -time for presenting and filing the bills until that
daT (the plaintiffs objecting to the order), ahd accordingly
the bills were then filed.
It is now insisted that the bills of exceptions cannot be considered a part of the record, and that they are not properly
here for review For this several reasons are advanced, the
first of which is that the presentation to the judge was not in
the time prescribed by the rule of the court. But tie rule
requiring the presentation of bills for the signature of the
judge within five days is not a rule which controls his action.
He may depart from it in order to effectuate justice. Stanton
v. Embrey, 93 U. S. 548. It is a direction to the parties, and
it expressly reserves the power to enlarge the time. It is no
VOL. XXI.

23

HUNNICUTT v. PEYTON.

[Sup. Ct.

doubt necessary that exceptions should be taken and, at least,
noted before the rendition of the verdict, but the reduction of
the bills to form, and the signature of the judge to the bills,
required for their attestation, or, as said in the Statute of Westimnster, "for a testimony," may be afterwards, during the
term. In practice it is not usual to reduce bills of exception to
form and to obtain the signature of the judge during the progress of the trial. Nor is it necessary The Statute of Westminster did not require it. It would greatly and uselessly
retard the business of courts were it required that every time
an exception is taken the progress of the trial should be
stayed untif the bill could be reduced to form and signed by
the judge. For this reason it has always been held that the
exception need only be noted at the time it is made, and may
be reduced to form within a reasonable time after the trial is
over. United States v Breitling, 20 How 252, Stanton v
L'mbrey, supra, DTredge v Forsythi, 2 Black, 564. The ime
within which the signature of the judge must be applied for,
if within the term, is left to the discretion of the judge who
noted the exception when it was made. It may depend much
upon the nature of the bills. Some require much more time
for preparation than others. It is true a judge cannot be permitted to make up a statement of facts, after the writ of error
is issued, upon which the case shall be heard. Generes v Bonnemer, 7 Wall. 564. That is quite a different matter. But
when an exception has been taken at the trial and noted, reducing the exception to form afterwards and attesting it is not
making a new case it is merely verifying the case as it appeared on the trial.
It is further urged by the plaintiffs that the defendants
waived their exceptions by suing out the writ of error before
the signature of the judge was obtained. In support of this
objection we are referred to Tidd's Practice, 863, where it is
said, " If a party who at the trial of a cause has tendered a bill
of exceptions, bring a writ of error before lie has procured the
judge's signature to such bill, lie thereby waives the bill of
exceptions, and will not be permitted by the court of error
afterwards to tack or append the bill of exceptions to the writ
of error." 4th Am. ed., from the 9th London. For this the

Oct. 1880.]

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

author relies on Dillon v. Doe dem. Parker, 1 Bing. 17, S. C.
11 Price, 100. In that case a year had elapsed after the writ
of error had issued. The transcript of the record had gone
into the Court of Errors. The common assignments of error
had been made and issue had been joined before the plaintiff
in error moved the court in error to compel a settlement of the
bill in the lower court, and asked that it might be appended to
the writ. In response to this motion, it was observed by two
of the justices that the proper course would be to apply to the
inferior court (the Court of King's Bench), which might, perhaps, make such an order, and then the bill of exceptions might
be brought up by an allegation of diminution. The case cited
hardly sustains the text. Only one of the judges expressed
the opinion that the writ of error and the return of the record
were a waiver of the bill of exceptions. But if that is the rule
in the English courts, it is not-imperative even there. Where
the presentation to the judge has been delayed from the default of the defendant in error, or for other sufficient reasons,
the Court of Errors will allow the bill of exceptions, when
signed, to be tacked to the record as of the time when the
record was removed. Taylor v Willans, 2 Barn. & Adol. 845,
s. c. 6 Bing. 512. The case is also reported in 4 Moo. & P
257, where the facts are fully stated. On the trial before
Chief Justice Tindal, on the 23d of December, a bill of exceptions was tendered, the substance of which was reduced to
writing and given to the officer of the court before the termination of the cause, but it was not then signed and sealed.
There was a verdict for the plaintiff. The defendant sued out
a writ of error in the Kin&'s Bench. Subsequently, on the
11th of February following, the bill of exceptions in an amended
form was settled by the counsel for the parties, and a copy was
sent to the plaintiff's attorney that he might accede to its terms,
or suggest alterations before it was sealed by the Chief Justice.
At the same time, the defendant served a rule to transcribe the
record for return with the writ of error. The bill not having
been returned, the court granted an order for its return. It
was argued against the rule (and Dillon v Parkerwas cited in
support of the argument) that the bill was waived, and that, by
the writ of error and the rule to transcribe, the record had been

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

[Sup. Ot.

removed into the King s Bench. But the court, all the judges
concurring, retained the order upon the attorney, holding that
the Chief Justice might seal the bill. It is not, therefore, by
any means settled, even in England, that suing out a writ of
error is a waiver of unsigned bills of exceptions.
We know of no decision in tins country that asserts or gives
any countenance to such a rule, or any reason that justifies it,
unless it be one in New York, to which we shall refer. True,
a writ of error here, as in England, is supposed to remove the
record of the court to which it is directed into the superior
tribunal. But this is a mere fiction. In neither country is
the record itself actually sent up. A transcript only is sent.
In England, at common law, a writ of error operated as a supersedeas and stayed all action of the inferior court, and thence
it was regarded as removing the record and ousting the jurisdiction of that court. The law there has been changed. And
here, the writ is of itself no supersedeas. If there be no bail
for a supersedeas, a writ does not stay the action of the trial
court. An execution may be issued and executed though a
writ of error is pending. Much more, it would seem, must the
court to which the writ is sent have power, during the term in
which the case is tried, to put its records and proceedings in
form to return them in obedience to the writ. If that cannot
be done, great hardship and injustice would in many cases be
the result. As we have said, bills of exceptions cannot always
be formally prepared until a considerable time after verdict
and judgment. They may require, in some cases, a full statement of almost all that occurred at the trial. Papers necessary
to be incorporated may be mislaid or withheld by the opposite
party, the charge of the judge, to which exception has been
taken, may not have been filed, or sickness may have interfered.
Meanwhile, judgment on the verdict may have been entered,
and unless the party can protect himself by a writ of error, an
execution may follow For these reasons, the universal practice is to give reasonable time to make up the bills of exceptions
and obtain the signature. This is not altering the record, it
is completing it. It is not exercising jurisdiction over the case.
It is merely putting into form the record statement of what
was done before the writ of error was sent down. In Brown v

Oct. 1880.]

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

Bissell (1 Dougl. (Mich.) 273), where a bill of exceptions returned with a writ of error appeared to have been signed after
the writ was sued out, it was held to be, at most, whether at
common law or under the statute, a mere irregularity, which
was waived by a joinder in error. Witbecl v. Watne, 8 How
(N. Y ) Pr. 433.
The remaining objection to the bills of exceptions is that
they were not signed nor filed nund pro tune, but that they
appear on their face to have been signea and filed ten days
after the trial. We think, however, the absence of any order
that the bills should have the same effect as if they had been
signed and filed during the trial is not a fatal objection. The
order of March 1, extending the time for signing and filing, is
equivalent to such an oraler. And the fact that the date of
the signature was the 28th of February is of no practical importance. At most it is only an irregularity It is not a void
act. Perhaps. the bills would appear more regular had they
been dated February 17, but they are recitals of what occurred
at the trial, and they show that the exceptions were then taken
-taken in time.. If it be kept ia mind that the judge's signature is required only for "testimony" that the exception was
taken at the trial, and before verdict, it cannot be material
that the testimony was given after the close of the trial, if
given during the term. We do not overlook what was said in
Waltbn v United States, 9 Wheat. 651. We gather the facts
of that case only from the opinion of the court, delivered by
Mr. Justice Duvall, by which it appears that the bill of exceptions did not show that any exception was taken at the trial.
That, of course, was a fatal defect. But, after having noticed
that fact, he made some general observations. After stating
that it will be sufficient if the exception be taken at the trial,
and noted by the court with the requisite certainty, and that it
may afterwards, during the term, according to the rules of
court, be reduced to form and signed by the judge, he added,
"But in all those cases the bill of exceptions is signed nune pro
tune, and it purports on its face to be the same as if actually
reduced to form and signed pending the trial. And," he said,
"it would be a fatal defect if it were to appear otherwise, for
the original authority under which bills of exceptions are

358

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

[Sup. Ct.

allowed, has always been considered to be restricted to matters
of exception taken pending the trial and ascertained before the
verdict."
These remarks were not necessary to the decision of the
case, and they are unsustained by any authority, so far as we
know, that existed when they were made. In Ex parte Bradstreet (4 Pet. 102), Mr. Chief Justice Marshall said, a practice
to sign a bill of exceptions after the term must be understood
to be a matter of consent between the parties, unless the judge
has made an express order in the term allowing such a period
to prepare it. No intimation was given that the signature
must be nune pro tune.
WValton v United States was referred to in Law v iJHerrills
(6 Wend. (N. Y ) 268), by one of the judges, and the language
of Mr. Justice Duvall quoted, but it was unnecessary to a decision of that case. The bill there had been signed a year
after the trial, by a judge who had not tried the cause. We
find no case which cau be regarded as an authoritative decision
that a bill of exceptions, signed during the term at which the
trial- took place, though after the close of the trial, must be
antedated to make it effective, or ordered to be filed nunepro
tune, as of a time during the trial. Nor can we discover any
reason for such a requirement. During the term the records
of the term are before the court for amendment in matters of
form, and whether a bill was signed as of a date after judgment
if during the term, or antedated to a time during the trial, is a
question of form only, if it appears that the exceptions were in
fact taken before verdict and during the progress of the trial.
Confessedly it may be signed after judgment, as of a date before, and be effective, though the date of the signature in such
a case is false. Why should giving to the signature its true
date destroy it 9 The reason why it is required that a bill
shall be presented for signature during the term (except in
extraordinary cases, when delay is allowed by the judge), is
that the facts appearing and rulings made at the trial may be
fresh in his memory Are they any more fresh in his memory
when he antedates the bill, or orders it to be filed as of the
date of the trial, than when he gives to the signature and filing
their true date? We cannot doubt that in a multitude of cases

Oct. 1880.]

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

bills of exceptions have been signed after judgment, and filed
without any order that the signature and filing be entered nune
pro tunc, but, when the true time of the signature appeared,
have been treated as sufficient, whenever they have shown that
the exceptions were taken during the trial. And, we think,
it would be a surprise to the profession, and work great wrong
to suitors, were we to hold such bills invalid.
In ITeece v Haley. (23 Ill. 416), exceptions were duly taken
at the trial. The record showed that the bill of exceptions
was signed three days afterwards, but during the term. It
was held that the bill was good, and that the record need not
explain the delay
So it was ruled in Illinos Railroad Co. v Palmer (24 id. 43),
that, if the bill of exceptions clearly shows that exceptions were
taken at the proper time, it is immaterial that it was not signed
till some days after the trial, and 'that it spoke in the present
tense.
In Dean v Gridley (10 Wend. (N. Y ) 254), Savage, C. J.,
declared that it was not required the bill should be so drawn
as to appear to have been signed upon the trial, whether it was
so or not. He was speaking of the Supreme Court of Errors.
See Hallowell v Hallowell, 1 Mon. (Ky) 130, Hughes v Bobertson, id. 215.
We pass, then, to a consideration of the assignments of error.
The first raises the question whether the title which was set up
in Jonathan Peyton was a legal one or merely an equity As
set out in the several bills of exceptions, it appears to have been
as follows. On the 28th of September, 1830, Gregorio Basquez
applied to the proper authorities of the Mexican government
for a grant in sale of eleven leagues of vacant land in the
department wherein Nacogdoches was situated, with the privilege of selecting them together, or separate, or in distinct
places.
On the 11th of March next following, a concession was made
in accordance with the prayer of the petition, and an order
given to the commissioner for the partition of land, or to the
alcalde of the jurisdiction, to put the petitioner into possession
of the subject of the grant.
On the 20th of September, 1831, Basquez gave a power of

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

[Sup. Ct.

attorney to Don Jayme Hartz, empowering him to solicit the
possession and titles to the said eleven leagues, in the place or
places which best suited him (Hartz), together or separate,
and empowering him also to appoint substitutes.
Two days afterwards Basquez sold and conveyed the grant
for the sum of $150 to Don Jayme Hartz in fee.
On the 2d of March, 1832, Hartz, in consideration of $500
to him paid, sold the concession or grant to Jonathan Peyton,
the ancestor of the plaintiffs, in fee, and substituted him as
attorney The act of sale recited the conveyance of Basquez
to the vendor.
On the 7th of October,K1838, the constitutional alcalde, by
a legalized act, conferred upon and put Peyton, the aforesaid
attorney of Basquez, " in real, virtual, personal, and actual possession of the eleven leagues," the same which bad been granted
to Basquez, describing them by the situation, lines, limits, and
corners as delineated in the notes of survey made by Francis
W Johnson, the principal surveyor, on pages two and followlng of the proceeding, with the figure thereof shown in the
map therento annexed. The act of the alcalde also ordered
that an authenticated copy of it should be delivered to the
interested party that lie might possess, use, and enjoy the
lands sold to him, his children, heirs, and successors, -or whoever of him or them might have cause, interest, or .right to
represent.
We are unable to see why these proceedings did not vest
the legal title to the lands granted in Peyton. The possession
was delivered to him, and he was instituted therein. The
interest of Basquez, whatever it was, both legal and equitable,
had been sold by him to Hartz, and Hartz had sold it to Peyton. The institution into possession must, therefore, have inured to the benefit of Peyton. It is a mistake to allege, as the
defendants now do, that the final extension of title was to Basqaez. It may be that Peyton would have held the land for
the use of Basquez, had he been only the attorney of Basquez.
But he was more. He was a grantee of all the Basquez right.
In this particular the case is unlike Hanrick v Barton, 16 Wall.
166. In that case, as here, there had been an extension of the
possession to the attorney in fact of the original grantee of

Oct. 1880.]

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

the government, and it was held that the extension toured to
his benefit, and that its legal effect was to perfect title in him.
But there' had been no grant of the original title to the attorney An assertion of title in him was, therefore, a fraud upon
his principal. But this court said. " We do not mean to say
that the original grantee, if not prohibited by law, might not
have assigned his inchoate title to a third person, nor that the
title might not, by a grant in proper form, have been perfected
in such assignee."
It has repeatedly been decided in Texas that purchasers
under the twenty-fourth article of Mexican laws of 1825 can
alienate their grants as soon as the concession has been made
to them, before the land was selected, or the title of possession
was issued. Ryan v Jackson, 11 Tex. 391, Clay v Holbert,
14 id. 189. In Martin v Parker(26 id. 254), it was held that
a formal act of sale by the original grantee, with a power to
the purchaser tq obtain the title of possession, must be held to
constitute the purchaser the absolute owner of the property
when he is put into possession of the land, and the evidence of
title by the proper officer of the government. Such is this
case. The first assignment of error, therefore, cannot be sustained.
Nor can the second. The original grant, it is true, did -not
locate the subject of the grant. It contemplated a selection
and location thereafter, and, when these were made, as the
jury found, and the title of extension was given, the title was
complete. There was enough in the extension, coupled with
the notes of the surveyor (made a part of it), to enable the
location to be identified. A more important question is raised
by the third and fourth assignments.
It was a very material inquiry at the trial, where the Basque four leagues had been located. The title-papers described
the location as beginning at a stake marked P, upon the left
margin of the river. Brazos, running thence north 71 degrees
east, to a corner, thence .by other courses back to the river,
and thence up the river to the place of beginning. Such was
tlhe report of the survey The starting-point was a stake, perishable, of course, which, as might have been expected, would
not be found after a lapse of forty years. But the survey was

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

["UP. Ct.

not a mere chamber one. There was evidence that it had
actually been made upon the -ground, and the court submitted
to the jury to find whether it had or not. No exception was
taken to this submission, and the jury found that an actual
survey had been thus made. Its location was the matter
chiefly in controversy The claim of the plaintiffs was that its
upper or north line, described as beginning at a stake marked
P on the left bank of the Brazos River, running thence by a
course north 71 degrees east, was the upper line of the Austin
& Williams reserve, and identical with it to the extent of the
Basquez survey To prove this they introduced the testimony
of Horatio Clriesman, against the objection of the defendants.
Chriesman had been a surveyor under F W Johnson, principal surveyor of the Austin & Williams lands in the reserve,
and William Moore, deceased, had been another deputy The
two deputies, in 1833 and 1834, had been engaged in surveying
in the reserve other lots on the left side of the Brazos River.
Neither of them was on the Basquez tract, or on any line of it.
Chriesman was laying out tracts fronting one thousand varas
on the river. By direction of Johnson, these surveys were to
include all the river-front between the upper line of the Ruiz
(a grant located on the lower line of the reserve) and the lower
line of the Basquez four-league grant. Moore was surveying
in the rear. During the time that Moore and the witness
were thus engaged surveying in the reserve, and perhaps before
that time, as he testified, he was allowed to state that Moore
informed him that he had made the survey of the Basquez
four-league tract, that the upper line of said grant began on
the east bank of the Brazos River, at the point where the
upper line of the reserve began, and that the upper line of
the Basquez ran north 71 degrees east with the reserve line the
full distance of the Basquez line, and that the upper line of
the Basquez and the upper line of the reserve were the same
to the extent of the Basquez line. It was this testimony, and
other of a similar nature, to which the defendants objected,
and to the admmssion of which they excepted.
It is to be noticed that the witness himself, as le expressly
stated, had no knowledge of the location or lines of the Basquez
survey, except what Moore had told him. The declarations of

Oct. 1880.]

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

863

Moore were made, not when he was pointing out the boundaries of the Basquez survey, but When he was at a distance from
the place of beginning of that survey and from its upper line.
That Moore had made the survey, or ever been upon its upper
line, or on the upper line of the reserve, is proved only by his
assertion, which the court allowed to be given in evidence.
There was no such proof aliunde. Whether he had any knowledge *of the facts whereof he spoke to Chriesman, is known
only from his own statement.
Again, Moore's declarations had no reference to reputation
in the neighborhood. They are not to be confounded with
proof of reputation, - proof of what the community thought,
believed, or said. As repeated by the witness, they were
mere hearsay, the unsworn declarations of a deceased person
respecting a particular fact not of a public nature. We do
not question that such declarations of reputation respecting
ancient public boundaries are admissible, and they have sometimes been admitted in controversies respecting private boundaries. But they are admissible in only a limited class of
cases, - a class much more limited than that in which such
evidence is offered to prove reputation of public boundaries.
Proof of reputation is open to rebuttal by witnesses. Not so
with declarations of a particularfact respecting a private boundary They are, therefore, receivable only when made 'coincidently with pointing out the boundaries and generally as part
of the res gestce.
In -Ellicottet al. v Pearl (10 Pet. 412), we find a case which
bears strongly on the present. In that case, which was a writ
of right for a tract of land, in which the location of a survey
was a matter in controversy, a witness was offered to prove
that one Moore, who was dead, but whose name was put down
as one of the chain-carriers in making the original survey, and
who was subsequently present when lines were run on the same
land, had declared that a certain corner was the corner made
by the surveyor when the original survey was made and the
line was run for that survey The evidence was rejected, and,
this court ruled, correctly rejected, though the declarations
offered were made by one who was proved by other evidence
to have assisted in running the line. This case is instructive,

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

[Sup. Ct.

and we believe it is in harmony with the rule generally enforced in this country It cdrtainly is in accord with the ruling of the English courts.
It is true that in several States of the Union decisions have
been made recognizing the admissibility of declarations of deceased persons, even though they were statements of particular
facts and in regard to mere private boundaries, but many of
them, perhaps most of them, were admissible on other grounds,
either as parts of the res gestoe or declarations of parties in
possession. We think such is not the preponderant weight of
decision. In Massachusetts, where the subject has been much
discussed, it is held that, to be admissible, such declarations
must have been made by persons in possession of land and in
the act of pointing out their boundaries. Bartlett v -Emerson,
7 Gray (Mass.), 174, -Dagettv Shaw, 5 Metc. (Mass.) 223.
And again, in Long v Colton (116 Mass. 414), when it was
said that it is an element not to be disregarded, especially
where the question is one of private boundaries, that the declaration was made while in the act of pointing out the boundaries, on the declaraiit's land. The declaration derives its force
from the fact that it accompanies and qualifies an act, and is
thus a part of the act. A similar ruling was made in Bender
v Pitzer, 27 Pa. St. 333.
We will not undertake to review the vast number of decisions of State courts upon this subject. It would greatly protract this opinion. Some things may be deduced from them,
which, though not universally recognized, are the conclusions
to which, we think, a great majority of them lead. In questions of private boundary, declarations of particular facts, as
distinguished from reputation, made by deceased persons, are
not admissible unless they were made by persons who, it is
shown, had knowledge of that whereof they spoke, and who
were on the land, or in possession of it when the declarations
were made.
To be evidence, they must have been made when the declarant was pointing out or marking the boundaries or discharging
some duties relating thereto. A declaration which is a mere
recital of something past is not an exception to the rule that
excludes hearsay evidence. Still, if a different ruling has been

Oct. 1880.]

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

made in the State of Texas, and has become a rule of property
there, applicable to the determination of controversies respecting disputed boundaries, we should feel constrained to apply
the Texas rule to this case. We have, therefore, carefully examined all the decisions of the Supreme Court of that State
which relate to the subject. The result has been to convince
us that there is no essential difference between the rule as
there held and the general rules held by the American courts.
Hearsay evidence is admitted in questions of boundary to
establish old boundary lines, even when private, but it is under
restrictions, and the restrictions appear to be the same as those
which are recognized elsewhere.
The first case is george v Thomas, 16 Tex. 74. What was
there ruled was that the declarations of a public surveyor,
made while he was making the survey to establish the dividing line, were admissible. They were a part of the res gestce.
This is the leading case to which the later cases refer, and upon
which they are generally rested. The opinion cites Blythe v
Sutherland, 3 McCord (S. C.), 258. In that case the declarations of a deceased surveyor, who was proved by a witness to
have run the line originally, were admitted in evidence. But
they were declarations made while the surveyor was pointing
out the line and showing the monuments. Stroud v Springfield (28 Tex. 649) goes no farther. The evidence offered in
that case was rejected. The court, however, referred to Speer
v Coate (3 McCord (S. C.), 227), where the court had said in
reference to the declarations of a deceased chain-carrier who
had pointed out to the witness a corner tree of the survey, "it
cannot be doubted at this day that the declarations of deceased
persons who shall appear to have been in a situation to possess
the information, and are not interested, shall, on a question of
boundary, be received in evidence." Even this was not declared to be an accepted rule in Texas, though the chain-carrier
who aided in the survey had actually pointed out a corner.
The next case is Welder v Carroll, 29 Tex. 317 It decided
nothing more than was ruled in the former cases. Indeed,
while the court said, "If the locality of a boundary line can be
proved by witnesses, who can, from their personal knowledge,
or on information derived from general reputation, or from its

HUNNICUTT

V. PEYTON.

[Sup. Ct.

having been pointed out to them by the surveyor by whom it
was run, or others who were present at the time, or cognizant
of the fact, it will fix and mark its position." But at the same
time- the court rejected the deposition of a witness tending to
prove the locality of the line from information given him by a
surveyor, remarking that "while, as heretofore held by this
court, hearsay evidence to establish ancient boundaries is,
under proper circumstances, admissible, it should be closely
scrutinized and received with proper caution." And it was
held that the evidence was much too vague and uncertain in
respect to the locality of the line of which the witness spoke,
as well as in respect to the source of his information, and the
time and circumstances under which Ire acquired it.
The next case is -Evans v Hutrt and Others, 34 id. 111. It
decides that declarations of a former owner, since deceased,
who, while in possession of and claiming the land, pointed out
his corner and line to the deposing witness, are evidence of the
boundary in behalf of the parties claiming under him. This
is the rule as held in other States. The court also decided that
the declarations of a son of a former owner who pointed out
the disputed line to the witness were inadmissible, but the case
does not show what they were, nor under what circumstances
they were made. This case came again before the court, and
it is reported in 49 id. 311. The report, however, contains
nothing more definite than what appears in 34 Texas.
The only other case which we have found or to which we
have been referred is Smith v Russell, 37 id. 247 In that
case it appeared that the lower court had permitted the defendants to prove that one of the original chain-carriers, who was
dead at the time of the trial, had pointed out to the witness
the place of the corner. The Supreme Court held that the
evidence was properly admitted, with the general remark that
"the declarations of deceased witnesses may be proved to fix
the location of corners and lines," citing Stroud v Springfield
and Welder v Carroll. From a review of all these cases it is
quite obvious that the rule in Texas is not different from that
which we have endeavored to show is the general American
rule, the guarded rule we have heretofore stated.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the fourth and fifth assign-

Oct. 1880.]

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

ments of error must be sustained, and that the answer of Chriesman to the fourth, ninth, and nineteenth interrogatories, as well
as all the declarations of Moore, were erroneously received.
We discover no error in the admission of the evidence set
out in the fourth bill of exceptions. The documents were
certainly evidence against one of the defendants.
Nor can the sixth assignment of error be sustained. The
survey made under the Sanchez concession was not the completion of his title. It did not identify the subject of the
concession until it was accepted by the government, and until
the title of possession was given. That was issued Oct. 19,
1838, after the 8asquez concession had been consummated.
The seventh assignment relates to the charge given to the
jury respecting the Statute of Limitations. To understand
this it is necessary to refer to some of the facts that tppeared
in evidence. It appeared that in 1835 John Marlin, as a colonist, obtained a complete grant from the Mexican government
of one league, part of which interfered with the Basquez fourleagues tract. It appeared also that the defendants, Watson
and his children, Bartlett and his wife, and W H. Jones,
having shown title in themselves to the several t'acts they
claimed, by regular transfer from the sovereignty of the soil,
gave evidence tending to show that their ancestor, Churchill
Jones, in 1855 or 1856, took actual possession of that part of
the Marlin league which interfered with the Basquez grant,
built a mill and other improvements thereon, and that the
possession had been kept up exclusively by said defendants
and those under whom they hold, down to the trial. This
possession they claimed to be a defence. It appeared, however, that in 1858 the plaintiffs' ancestor entered on the Basquez grant, but not on the interference, aid made a lease to
James Marlin, permitting him to occupy three hundred and
twenty acres. Marlin has ever since resided there,, holding as
tenant under the plaintiffs or their ancestor.
The charge of the court was as follows: "The facts, as I understand the defendants to claim them,
are that in 1855, under the Marlin title, and in 1856 or 1857,
under the Sanchez title, they took actual possession of their
lands lying within the conflict.

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

[SLIP. Ct.

"From that date the Statute of Limitations began to run in
their favor for the lands embraced within their title as against
the Basquez title. If three years, elapsed before they were
ousted by a superior possession, then their occupancy for three
years makes a complete bar to any recovery by the plaintiffs.
"But the plaintiffs claim that in May, 1857, before the defendants had been in possession for the period of three years
of any of the lands within the conflict, their possession was
interrupted by the entry upon the Basquez grant of James
Marlin as the agent for Mrs. Eberly
"'If you find this fact to be as the plaintiffs claim, that
James Marlin entered upon the Basquez grant in 1857 as the
agent for Mrs. Eberly, claiming title to the whole in her name,
we instruct you that for that time the possession of the defendants - they holding under a junior title - was restricted to the
lands actually occupied by them, and could not be extended
by construction to the bounds called for by their paper title.
"From Jan. 28, 1861, to the 30th of March, 1870, the Statnte of Limitations in this State was suspended. No extension, therefore, of the actual possession of defendants between
these dates would avail them unless held for three years after
the statute had again commenced running, and before the commencement of this suit."
It is this instruction of which the defendants complain.
But we think it was correct. It was in accordance with the
doctrine asserted in Olar'ce's Lessee v Courtney (5 Pet. 319),
and generally recognized. It is true that when a person enters upon unoccupied land, under a deed or title, and holds
adversely, his possession is construed to be coextensive with
his deed or title, and the true owner will be deemed to be disseised to the extent of the boundaries described in that title.
Still, his possession beyond the limits of his actual occupancy
is only constructive. If the true owner be at the same time
in actual possession of part of the land, claiming title to the
whole, he has the constructive possession of all the land not
in the actual possession of the intruder, and this, though the
owner's actual possession is not within the limits of the defective title. "The reason is plain. Both parties cannot be
seised at the same time of the same land under different titles.

Oct. 1880.]

HUNNICUTT V. PEYTON.

The law, therefore, adjudges the seisin of all that is not in the
actual occupancy of the adverse party to him who has .the better title." These distinctions are clearly shown in the cases.
One who enters upon the land of another, though under color
of title, gives no notice to that other of any claim, except to
the extent of his actual occupancy
The true owner may not
know the extent of the defective title asserted against him,
and if while he is in actual possession of part of the land,
claiming title to the whole, mere constructive possession of
another, of which he has no notice, can oust him from that
part of which he is not in actual possession, a good title is no
better than one which is a mere pretence. Such, we think, is
not the law When the owner of the Basquez title entered
upon the tract, took actual possession of a part by his tenant,
and retained it, claiming the whole, the law gave to that owner
the constructive possession of all that was not in the actual
adverse possession or occupancy of another.
In Altemus v Long (4 Pa. St. 254), it was ruled that though
actual possession under a junior title of part of a tract -of land,
which interfered with an older grant, gave possession of the
whole to the holder of the junior title, yet a subsequent entry
of the true owner upon any part of his land was an ouster of
the intruder from what he had in constructive possession
merely We know of no authoritative decision that isin conflict with this.
It is sufficient to say of the eighth assignment of error that
it is not sustainable. The answer to the defendants' point was
clearly correct.
The remaining exception is to the sufficiency of the verdict.
It is said it was "indefinite, uncertain, and did not find the
main issue, viz., how much of the defendants' land, if any, is
covered by the Basquez grant" 9 This is not necessary for us
now to discuss. It may be the verdict was not sufficiently
certain, but as the 'case goes back for another trial, the matter
is of no importance now
Judgment reversed and cause remittedfor a new trial.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD and MR.JUSTICE BRADLEY dissented.
VOL. XII.

