GRAHAM V. RAILROAD C0.

[Sup. Ct.

was filed, and that it was his duty to certify it for primary trial
to the District Court. When removed there on appeal, it should
have been dismissed, because there could have been no lawful
trial before the justice.
That the issue tendered by the sworn answer of the defendant
involved the title is clear. If he was holding under the United
States, his attornment to the plaintiff and taking a lease were
void. The question would then arise, whether the title of plaintiff or that of the United States, set up by defendant, was valid.
For the trial of that title, the action brought by the plaintiff
and the forum in which it was commenced were inappropriate.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Idaho on the effect of
their own code of procedure in this respect will not be reversed
here.
Judgment affirmed.

GRAHA.I v. RAILROAD COMPANY.
1. Where a corporation, solvent at the time, and having no actual intent to defraud creditors, disposes of its lands for an inadequate consideration or by
a voluntary conveyance, its subsequent creditors cannot question the transaction.
2. Semble, that where a corporation has waived, or omitted to exercise, the right
to institute proceedings to recover lands of which it has been defrauded,
such right does not inure to the benefit of subsequent creditors or purchasers.
AP:PEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
Tis is a bill in equity filed by Lawrence G. Graham and
Donald D. Scott against the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad Company, the Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company,
Moses Kneeland, James Ludington, Byron Kilbourn, and others,
to subject certain real estate in the city of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to the satisfaction of certain judgments recovered by the
complainants against the first-named company for an indebtedness on contracts arising after its sale and conveyance of that
real estate, to Charles D. Nash. The defendants deraign title
through him.

Oct. 1880ir]

GRAHAM

v.

RAILROAD CO.

The court below dismissed the bill, whereupon the complainants appealed here. The remaining facts are stated in the
opinion of the court.
1"fr Matthew H. Carpenterand Hr Newton S. Aurphey for
the appellants.
The complainants had the right, as subsequent creditors, to
maintain this suit, because, first, if, as we contend, the sale
was void as to Nash and purchasers from him with .notice,
then subsequent creditors of the company may treat the conveyance to him as never having been made, and, secondly, if
such sale is merely voidable, it may, at the suit of such creditors, be set aside and the property subjected to the payment
of their debts.
It is a general principle that a creditor may, in equity,
reach every property" right of his debtor. Williams v Thorn,
70 N. Y 270. Even damages recovered for torts to property
which is subject to execution may be reached by a creditor's
bill. Hudson v Plets, 11 Paige (N. Y ), 183. A creditor purchasing the lands of his debtor on execution may bring his
bill to set aside a prior usurious mortgage, or prosecute any
suit in regard to them that the debtor could have maintained.
Dix v Van Wyek, 2 Hill (N. Y ), 525, Shaw v Dwight, 27
N. Y 245, McMahon v Allen, 35 id. 403. A judgment creditor may, without issumg an execution, maintain a suit to remove a cloud upon the title to lands, whereon his judgment
would otherwise be a lien. Shaw v .Dwight, supra.
Where A. is induced by fraud to convey lands to B. under
circumstances which, in equity, entitle the former to set aside
the sale, B. has thereunder no such adverse possession as will
defeat a subsequent deed from A. to C., and the latter may
maintain a bill to set aside the prior voidable conveyance.
Lvzngston v Iron Company, 9 Wend. (N. Y.) 511, Dickinson
v Burrell, Law Rep. 1 Eq.. 337, ieMahon v Allen, supra,
Baker v Whiting, 3 Sumn. 475.
Croecer v Belangee et al. (6 Wis. 645), and lilwaukee & Minnesota Railroad Co. v Milwaukee & Western Railroad Co. (20
id. 174), relied upon by the appellees, rest upon Prosser v
-Edmonds (1 Y. & C. 481), which was substantially overruled
by Dickinson v Burrell, supra. These cases are both consid-

GRAHAMu

V. RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

ered, and Dzckznson v. Burrell is followed in iTIYlcahon v Allen, which is very like the present case. The conveyance was
obtained by fraud, and in violation of the duty imposed by
fiduciary relations. The grantor then made a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, and the assignee's bill to set
aside the conveyance was sustained.
Again, Prosser v Edmonds and the cases following it, even
if held to be good law, do not apply to this case. They all
proceed upon the ground that the second conveyance is void
by reason of the first grantee's adverse possession of the lands.
This cannot be said of a proceeding by a creditor seeking, as
in the present case, to enforce the lien of his judgment on
them.
The doctrine that subsequent creditors cannot set aside a
debtor's fraudulent conveyance rests upon the ground that be
was a party to the fraud, and, In furtherance of it, transferred
the property He cannot rescind the sale, and they find no
property right in him which even he could assert against his
grantee. Existing creditors only are protected by the statute in such a case. But where the conveyance was obtained
by fraud practised upon him, he has a subsisting property right,
and may enforce the rescission of the sale.
If the defrauded -debtor company had sold the property for
value to the complainants, or -conveyed it to them in satisfaction of their judgment, they could, in either case, have brought
their bill to set aside the prior conveyance to Nash. If so, they
could levy on the.property, and, having thus acquired a specific
lien, maintain such a suit.
The distinction between prior and subsequent creditors is not
to be held as strictly in the case of a corporation as in that of
individual debtors.
In Bradwell v Weeks (1 Johns. (N. Y) Ch. 205), and in
Cumberland v. Codrzngton (3 id.. 229), approved in Bank of
the Mietropolis v Guttscilick (14 Pet. 19), it was held that
when a trust is created for the benefit of a third party, though
without his knowledge at the time, he may ratify and enforce
it. In Railroad Company v H7oward (7 Wall. 392), and numerous subsequent cases, it is held that the property of a corporation is a trust fund for creditors , and we think the court

Oct. 1880.]

GRAhAM V. RAILROAD

CO.

meant all creditors becoming such during the life of the corporation. Jackson v Ludeling, 21 id. 616.
Mr E-phrazm 1artnerand 3r

John 1W Cary, contra.

MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

In September, 1855, the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad
Company not being at that time, so far as appears, indebted in
any considerable amount, sold certain lands in the city of Milwaukee not then wanted for railroad purposes to Charles D
Nash for the sum of $25,000. The officers of the company who
took a leading part in negotiating the sale are charged to have
been interested in the purchase, and to have furnished Nash the
means for effecting it. At all events, shortly after it was
made, Nash conveyed the property, for the original consideration, to Moses Kneeland, one of the officers referred to, and
Kneeland, retaining one third part, subsequently conveyed the
other two third parts to Ludington and Kilbourn, they all
being directors of the company, and members of the executive
committee. The company itself never questioned the fairness
of this transaction, on the contrary, the sale was subsequently
(in March, 1858) expressly confirmed by the board of directors, and a further quitclaim deed executed by the company
in confirmation thereof. In September and Novembqr, 1858,
the appellants recovered two judgments against the company
for indebtedness on contract, arising after the sale of the lands,
and issued executions thereon, under which levies were made
on said lands, as lands of the company. In January, 1860, the
appellants, having sued on these judgments in the United
States court, recovered a second judgment for upwards of
$40,000, issued execution thereon, and made another levy on
the lands. Being unwilling to attempt a sale under their said
execution in consequence of the deeds for the lands being
recorded, the appellants, in June, 1860, filed the bill in this
case against Kneeland, Kilbourn, Ludington, and the railroad
company, setting forth their said judgments, executions, and
-levies, .stating the fact of the said sale to Nash and his conveyance to Kneeland, and the latter's conveyance to the other
parties, alleging that the transaction was a fraud against the
corporation and its creditors, and complaining that the said

'GRAIIAM V. RAILROAD

O.

[Sup. Ct.

conveyances of the lands were a cloud upon their right to sell
the lands under execution, and an impediment in the way of the
execution of their writ of fierzfaczas, and prayed that the lands
might be decreed subject to the lien of their judgment, that
they might be decreed to be authorized to sell the same, or so
much as might be necessary for the purpose of satisfying their
judgment, and that Kneeland, Kilbourn, and Ludington might
join in the conveyance, and might be restrained from claiming
the land, and that the conveyances to them -might be declared
null and void. The bill, amongst other things, averred that
the lands were sold to Nash for much less than their real
value, but it contained no allegation that the company was
insolvent, or that it had not other assets available under an
execution, nor was any offer made to repay the consideration
which the purchaser had given for the lands.
To this bill the defendants severally filed answers, denying
that the lands were worth more than $25,000 at the time of
sale, -averring that the sale was made in good faith, and with
the company's concurrence, and setting forth in detail many
circumstances tending to show that the title was involved and
embarrassed, that they required large outlays of money to
render them available, that the company had offered them for
sale in the market, and was unable to get from any other person
the price paid for them by Nash, that although Nash was
requested to purchase the lands by Kneeland, and was aided by
him in paying therefor, yet Nash had the option to keep them,
but after making the purchase and inquiring into the title and
situation of the lands, he asked to be, relieved from the purchase, and that thereupon Kneeland, Kilbourn, and Ludington took them off of his hands.
The parties went into proofs, and it appears that the company had, for months prior to the sale, been endeavoring to
dispose of the lands, and could get no purchaser at the price
offered by Nash, and the leading statements of the answer, as
to the title and situation of the lands, were verified. It also
appeared that the railroad company never objected to the sale,
but that it was expressly confirmed in March, 1858, by a resolution of the board of directors, as before noticed.
Various transactions subsequently took place, by which other

Oct. 1880.]

GRAHAM V. RAILROAD 0O.

parties became interested in the lands, and in the affairs and
property of the railroad company, which are fully developed in
the supplemental proceedings and proofs, but it is unnecessary to notice them further. The foregoing statement exhibits
the leading features of the case as presented for our consideration.
The main question is, whether the sale to Nash, made before
the railroad company became indebted to the appellants, and
when for all that appears it was perfectly solvent, even though
made for the use and benefit of the officers referred to, can be
set aside at the instance of the complainants, for the purpose
of subjecting the lands to sale under their execution. And
this question, we think, must be answered in the negative.
It is a well-settled rule of law that if an individual, being
solvent at the time, without any actual intent to defraud creditors, disposes of property, for an inadequate consideration, or
even makes a voluntary conveyance of it, subsequent creditors
cannot question the transaction. They are not injured. They
gave credit to the debtor in the status which he had after the
voluntary conveyance was made.
The authorities on this subject are fully collected in the
notes to Sexton v Wheaton (1 Am. L. Cas. 1), and in the opinion
of Mr. Chief Justice Marshall in that case, and the general
doctrine is affirmed in J[att ngly v Nye, '8 Wall. 370.
It is true that if a debtor dispose of his property, with intent
to defraud those to whom he expects to become immediately or
soon indebted, this may be a fraud against them, which they
may have a right to unravel. But that is a special case, to
which the present bears no resemblance. It is not pretended
that the railroad company disposed of the property in question
for the purpose of defrauding creditors, much less for the purpose of defrauding those who afterwards in due course of
business might become its creditors.
But it is contended that this is a case in which the debtor
corporation was defrauded of its property, and that as the
company had a right of proceeding for its recovery, any of
its judgment and execution creditors have an equal right, that
it is a property right, and one that inures to the benefit of
creditors.

GRAHAMI V. RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Conceding that creditors who were such when the fraudulent
procurement of the debtor's property occurred, - and cases
to that effect have been cited, -the question still remains,
whether, the debtor being unwilling to disturb the transaction,
subsequent creditors have such an interest that they can reach
the property for the satisfaction of their debts. We doubt
whether any case, going as far as this, can be found. No such
case has been cited in the argument. Dicta of judges to that
effect may undoubtedly be produced, but they are not supported by the facts of the cases under consideration.
It seems clear that subsequent creditors have no better right
than subsequent purchasers, to question a previous transaction
in which the debtor s property was obtained from him by fraud,
which he has acquiesced in, and which he has manifested no
desire to disturb. Yet, in such a case, subsequent purchasers
have no such right. In French v Shotwell (5 Johns. (N. Y )
Ch. 555), Chancellor Kent decided, upon full consideration,
that when a party to a judgment, entered upon a warrant
of attorney, voluntarily waives his defence or remedy on the
ground of fraud or usury, and releases the other party, a subsequent purchaser under him, with notice of the judgment, will
not be allowed to impeach it, or to investigate the merits of
the original transaction between the original parties , and lie
dismissed a bill filed by the subsequent purchaser for relief in
such a case. The Chancellor said " If the party himself
who is the victim of fraud or usury chooses to waive his remedy and release the party, it does not belong to a subsequent
purchaser under him to recall and assume the remedy for him.
If a judgment was fraudulent by collusion between the parties
to it, on purpose to defraud a subsequent purchaser, the case
would present a very different question. But if the judgment
was fraudulent only as between the parties, it is for the injured party alone to apply the remedy If he chooses to waive
it and discharge the party, it cannot consist in justice or sound
policy, that a subsequent voluntary purchaser, knowing of that
judgment, should be competent to investigate the merits of the
original transaction as between the original parties. Quzsque
potest renunczare)ure pro se zntroducto.
It is stated to have
been a principle of the common law that a fraud, could only be

Oct;. 1880.]

GRAHAM V. RAILROAD CO.

avoided by him who had a prior interest in the estate affected
by the fraud, and not by him who subsequently to the fraud
acquired an interest in the estate. Upton v Basset, Cro. Eliz.
445, and recognized in 8 Co. 83 a."
This decision of Chancellor Kent was afterwards nearly unanimously affirmed by the Court of Errors. 20 ffohns. (N. Y.) 668.
When the question of the right of a creditor to set aside a
conveyance procured from the debtor by fraud first came before the courts m England, it was held that the debtor's own
right was merely the right to file a bill in equity against the
fraudulent grantee adversely, and, if he did not see fit to take
such a proceeding, his creditor had no such privity with the
transaction as to enable him to obtain relief, even though the
debtor should assign his supposed right to the creditor; that
the transaction savored of champerty, and was opposed, at least,
to the spirit of the law against champerty and maintenance.
This was the substance of the decision by the Court of Exchequer in 1835,'in Prosser v -Edmonds,1 Y & C. 481. Lord
Abinger treated the case as a.new one, and at the close of the
argument remarked that his impression was that such a claim
could not be sustained in equity, unless the party who made
the assignment joined in the prayer to set it aside. He afterwards gave a deliberate opinion upon the point. In"tlat case,
an executor and trustee bad fraudulently procured an assignment of his brother-in-law's interest in the estate, knowing its
value, which was unknown to the assignor. A subsequent
creditor of the assignor, to whom he assigned his whole interest
in the estate, filed a bill to set aside the assignment 'to the
trustee. Lord Abinger distinguished the case from that of an
assignment of a chose in action, as a note not negotiable, or a
bond, or a mortgage, or an equity of redemption, where possession of the thing assigned is delivered to the assignee, and
treated it as an assignment of a mere naked right to file a bill
in equity, in which the last assignee purchased nothing but a
hostile right to bring parties into a court of equity as defendants to a bill filed for the purpose of obtaining the fruits of his
purchase. "What is this," says the Lord Chief Baron, "but
the purchase of a mere right to recover 9 It is a rule, not of
our law alone, but of that of all countries (Voet ad Pandect,

GRAHAM v. RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Lib. 41, tit. 1, sect. 38), that the mere right of purchase shall
not give a man a right to legal remedies. The contrary doctrine is nowhere tolerated, and isagainst good policy All our
cases of maintenance and champerty are founded on the principle that no encouragement should be given to litigation by the
introduction of paties to enforce those rights which others are
not disposed to enforce. There are many cases where the acts
charged may not amount properly to maintenance or chainperty, yet of which, upon general principles, and by analogy
to such acts, a court of equity will discourage the practice."
"Robert Todd, when he assigned, was in possession of nothing but a mere naked right. He could obtain nothing without
filing a bill. No case can be found which decides that such
a right can be the subject of assignment, either at law or in
equity " These remarks are very broad, and would apply
to "the case of existing as well as subsequent creditors, though
the case itself was that of a subsequent creditor. It forms
the subject of a section in Story's Commentaries on Equity
(sect. 1040 7), where, in a note, Lord Abinger's opinion is
extensively quoted, and it has been followed by other very
respectable authorities, and, as applied7 to subsequent creditors, at least, we think that the reasoning is sound.
The principle established in Prosser v -Edmonds has been
adopted by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, in which State
the lands in question are situated. In Crocker v Belangee et
al. (6 Wis. 645), decided in 1858, it was held that a deed obtained from the grantor, through fraudulent representations
made by the grantee, is not void, but voidable only, at the
election of the grantor and that the conveyance of the same
land by the grantor to another person is not the exercise of
such election, and does not avoid the former deed, that, in
order to avoid such former deed, some proceeding must be
had by the grantor to which the grantee is a party, and that
a subsequent purchaser from the grantor cannot set up the
alleged fraud of the first grantee to defeat his title, -the court
holding that the right of a vendor to avoid a sale or deed on
the ground of fraud practised by the vendee is not a right
or interest capable of sale and transfer, so as to enable a subsequent vendee of such right, for such cause, to attack the title

Oct. 1880.]

GRAHAM

v.

RAILROAD

CO.

of the first vendee, that it is a mere personal right, incapable of
sale or transfer.
In Milwaukee & Minnesota Railroad Co. v. Milwaukee
Western Railroad Co. (20 id. 174), the latter company had
covenanted to pay a certain portion of an incumbrance on railroad property afterwards purchased by the complainant company under a subsequent mortgage. A release of the obligation
had been fraudulently, as alleged, procured from the original
mortgagor company owning the road. The complainant purchased under a mortgage which conveyed "all causes of action,
demands, and choses in action, of whatever nature," of the
mortgagors, and claimed to have purchased the right to set
aside the alleged fraudulent release, and filed a bill for that
purpose, but the bill was dismissed on the ground that such a7
right of action could not be thus assigned. The court say
"Admitting that thefacts alleged present a case which would
entitle the La Crosse and Milwaukee company [the mortgagor]
to have the release set aside on account of these acts of fraudulent concealment by one of its directors of his interest in the
defendant company, and assuming that the further fact appears
that this right of action has been assigned by the La Crosse
and Milwaukee company to the plaintiff, the question would
then arise, whether the release could be avoided on the application of such plaintiff, the La Crosse and Milwaukee company
making no complaint of the fraud whatever. In other words,
is this mere right to litigate the question, and to set aside the
deed of release on account of fraud practised upon the assignor,
a subject of assignment and transfer, and will a court of equity
allow the assignee to stand in the shoes of the assignor in respect to the remedies 9 " And then referring to the previous
case of Crocker v. Bellangee et al., and to Prosser v _dmonds,
the court expresses its approbation of those decisions, and adds:
"A reference to these authorities is all which probably need
be said at this time in regard to the allegatiolis above cited
[referring to the contention of counsel], and upon the point
whether the plaintiff company could avoid the release for the
alleged fraudulent act of concealment, even if this right of action had been assigned to it by the La Crosse and Milwaukee
company "

GRAHAM

v.

RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

It seems to us that those cases, which, so far as it appears,
declare the settled law of Wisconsin, are conclusive of the
present case.
It is contended on the part of the appellants that Prosser
v -Ednonds has been overruled by the subsequent cases of
Dickinson v Burrell (Law Rep. 1 Eq. 337) and icilialhon v
Allen, 35 N. Y 403. We have examined these cases, and
others which are supposed to be in conflict with Prosser v
Edmonds. In Dickinson v Burrell, the Master of the Rolls,
Lord Romilly, expressly disavows any intention to overrule the
former case. He says "The demurrer is mainly supported on
the case of Prosser v Edmonds, which was decided, after long
deliberation, by Lord Abinger, but I am of opinion that the
case before me does not fall within the rule established by that
decision." The case then before the court was, that a conveyance of an interest in an estate had been fraudulently procured
from Dickinson, by his own solicitor, to a third party for the
solicitor's benefit, and for a very inadequate consideration.
Dickinson, ascertaining the fraud, by a conveyance which recited the facts, and that he disputed the validity of the first
conveyance, transferred all his share in the estate to trustees for
the benefit of himself and his children. The trustees filed a
bill to set aside the fraudulent conveyance upon repayment of
the consideration-money and interest, and to establish the trust.
The Master of the Rolls sustained the bill, observing "The
distinction is this if James Dickinson had sold or conveyed the
right to sue to set aside the indenture of December, 1860, without
conveying the property, or his interest in the property, which
is the subject of that indenture, that would not have enabled the
grantee, A. B., to maintain this bill, but if A. B. had bought
the whole interest of James Dickinson in the property, then it
would. The right of suit is a right incidental to the property
conveyed." "I think that the distinction between the conveyance of the property itself and the conveyance of a mere right
to sue, or what in substance is a right to sue, is taken by Lord
Abinger in the case of Prosser v Edmonds. The distinction
is also taken in Cockell v Taylor (15 Beav 103) and in Anderson v Radcliffe (Ell., B. & E. 806), and has been adopted and
approved in many other cases, and it is, I think, founded in
reason and good sense."

Oct. 1880.]

GRAHAM V. RAILROAD

C0.

159

Surely there is here no overruling of Prosserv Edmonds, even
if such overruling could avail against the Wisconsin decisions.
It leaves that case in full force as to assignments of the mere
right to sue. In-the case before us there is not even that. The
railroad corporation acquiesced in the sale, and confirmed it.
The conveyance, which, perhaps, might have been set asidehad
the company seen fit, became absolute as between the parties
and carried the title. It is as valid between the parties as if
the corporation had conveyed to a stranger. The appellant
then becomes a creditor, and afterwards obtains judgment, and
simply makes a levy, and then comes into court and asks its
aid to remove a cloud from its title. What title? Has he
acquired any title ? Was there any title for him to acquire?
There had been a right to file a bill in equity, and that right
had been remitted by the company's acquiescence in the sale,probably for the reason that it obtained all that the property
was worth at the time. The contrary, at least, is not established. And if it were established, it would only make out a
case of voluntary conveyance as against a subsequent creditor,
which has, already been considered. We think that there is
nothing in the case of Dickinson v Burrell to overrule the
effect of Prosserv Edmonds, so far as the present case is concerned.
Then, as to l~fd."Vahon v Allen (35 N. Y 403), decided in
1866. One Harrison, in March, 1852, being in debt, was
induced by the fraudulent contrivance of his agent and attorney, and to the prejudice of his creditors, to convey to
said agent, for a very inadequate consideration, his interest
in his mother's estate and in, certain other property, he being
ignorant of the fraud practised upon him. In August, 1852,
Harrison made a general assignment for the benefit of his
creditors of all his property and rights of action, with full
power to sue for and collect the same. The assignee filed a
bill to set aside the conveyance to the agent. The bill was
sustained. The court, Mr. Justice Hufit delivering the opinion, relied on Dzckinson v Burrell, saying "In the recent case
of Dickinson v Burrell, this precise question was presented,"
and, after quoting largely from the opinion inthat case, added
"This was a well-considered case, is of high authority, and, in

GRAHAM

v.

RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

my opinion, is an accurate exposition of the law I think it
should control the present case." In the New York case, it is
true, there was no express repudiation of the fraudulent conveyance, as in DOwknson v Burrell,but there was a conveyance
of the estate to the assignee, with a power to sue for the benefit
of creditors, and those creditors had been directly defrauded.
Without further comment, it seems to us clear that IcLfahon
v Allen cannot control the present case.
The principle that subsequent creditors cannot question a
voluntary or fraudulent disposition of property by their debtor,
not intended as a fraud against them, is especially applicable
in oases of constructive fraud, like that charged in the present
bill. Suppose it be true that the purchase of the lands in question by or for the benefit of officers of the company actively
concerned in the transaction could be set aside at the instance
of the company as a constructive fraud, yet if there was no
actual fraud, if the company received full consideration for the
property sold, how can it be said that subsequent creditors of
the company are injured9
In the present case we are satisfied from the evidence that
the property was sold for its fair value at the time, and that
no actual loss accrued to the railroad company's estate.
It would be unjust and a great hardship, therefore, on the
mere ground of the constructive fraud, to allow creditors who
had no interest at the time to seize and dispose of the property
sold.
It is contended, however, by the appellant that a corporation
debtor does not stand on the same footing as an individual
debtor, that, whilst the latter has supreme dominion over his
own property, a corporation is a mere trustee, holding its property for the benefit of its stockholders and creditors, and that
if it fail to pursue its rights against third persons, whether
arising out of fraud or otherwise, it is a breach of trust, and
creditors may come into equity to compel an enforcement of
the corporate duty This, as we understand, is the substance
of the position taken.
We do not concur in this view It is at war with the notions
which we derive from the English law with regard to the
nature of corporate bodies. A corporation is a distinct entity

Ot. 1880.]

SEWARD V. CORNEAU.

Its affairs are necessarily managed by officers and agents, it is
true, but, in law, it is as distinct a being as an individual is,
and is entitled to hold property (if not contrary to its charter)
as absolutely as an individual can hold it. Its estate is the
same, its interest is the same, its possession is the same. Its
stockholders may call the officers to account, and may prevent
any malversation of'funds, or fraudulent disposal of property
on their part. But that- is done in the exercise of their corporate rights, not adverse to the corporate interests, but coincident
with them.
When a corporation becomes insolvent, it is so far civilly
dead, that its property may be administered as a trust-fund for
the benefit of its stockholders and creditors. A court of equity,
at the instance of the proper parties, will then make those funds
trust-funds, which, in other -circumstances, are as much the
absolute property of the corporation, as any man's property is
his. We see no reason why the disposal by a corporation of
any of its property should be questioned by subsequent creditors of the corporation, any more than a like disposal by an
individual of his property should be so. The same principles
of law apply to each.
We think that the present bill cannot be maintained.
Decree affirjned.

SEWARD V. COItNEAU.
A bond is not suffcient for the purppses of either an appeal to this court or a
supersedeas, if the obligors are not thereby bound for the payment of costs,
should the appellant fail to make his plea good.

MOTION to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Louisiana.
This suit, brought in a State court of Louisiana, to enjoin
a proceeding known as an order of seizure and sale, was, on
the petition of the complainants, removed to the Circuit Court,
where, on a final hearing, their bill was dismissed. From the
decree they prayed for an appeal, which was allowed, with an
VOL. XII.

11

