Oct. 1880.]

RECKNAGEL V. MURPHY.

RECKNAGEL V. MURPHY.
Certain articles were imported by A. from Liverpool, Nov. 14, 1871, upon which
the collector of the port of New York exacted the duty of six cents per
pound, imposed by sect 5 of the act of July 14, 1862 (12 Stat. 547), upon
"argols or crude tartar." A. claimed that they were "argols crude," and, as
such, were, by sect. 22 of the act of July 14, 1870 (16 id. 266), exempt from
duty. A. paid the duty under protest, and brought suit against the collector
to recover it. The court instructed the jury that it was for them to determine from the evidence whether the argols in question were "argols crude,"
then known as such to commerce or to science, or whether they were argols
that were more or less refined. Held, that the instruction was proper, and
covered the entire ground of the controversy

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.

This was a suit brought against Murphy, thern collector of
customs at the port of New York, by Recknagel & Co., to
recover the amount of certain -duties which they paid to him
under the following protest "Nuw YoniK, Dec. 27, 1871.
Sip- We protest against the assessment of duty at six cents
per lb. upon the argols imported by us in the city of New York
from Liverpool, and entered for consumption Nov. 14, 1871, because
the act of July 14, 1862, sect. 5, as far as it relates to argols or crude
tartar, is repealed by the act of July 14, 1870, sect. 22. We pay
under duress to get our goods.
"RECKI AGEL & Co.
"COLLECTOR

OF CUSTOMS,
"New York City."

Judgment was rendered for the defendant. The plaintiffs'
sued out this writ of error.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr William . Stanley and Mr Stephen a Clarke for the
plaintiffs in error.
AIr Asststant Attorney- General Smith, contra.

MR. JUSTicE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The subject to which the controversy relates. is an article
known m commerce as argols.

RECKNAGEL V. MURPHY.

[Sup. Ct.

Sect. 5 of the act of Congress of July 14, 1862 (12 Stat.
547), imposed upon "argols or crude tartar" a duty of "six
cents per pound."
Sect. 22 of the act of July 14, 1870 (16 Stat. 266), exempted
"argols crude " wholly from duty, by putting the article in the
free list created by that act.
Both these acts were in force when the importations in question were made.
The controversy between the parties therefore narrows itself
down to the question whether the argols of the plaintiffs upon
which the duties complained of were exacted and paid were
"argols crude" or not. If crude, they were not dutiable, and
the plaintiffs were entitled to recover, otherwise, the defendant
was entitled to a verdict in his favor.
The subject was a proper one to be enlightened by evidence
and passed upon by the jury
Both were done, and a verdict
and judgment for the defendant was the result.
When wine ferments, certain deposits cling to the sides or
fall to the bottom of the casks. These deposits are ningled
with a variety of impurities, such as glucose, leaves, sticks and
particles of dust, silicate and other like things. By washing in
cold water, these impurities are removed and the crude tartar
is left free from their presence. The effect of the cold water
is mechanical. When boiling water is applied sufficiently,
crystallization and re-crystallization take place, and the product
is the cream of tartar of medicine and commerce. There is refinement in the latter case, but no chemical change is wrought.
Argols are used also for making tartaric acid, Rochelle salts,
the preparation of tartrate of antimony, and potash called tartar emetic, as a mordant in dyeing, and for other purposes.
Argols and crude tartar are synonyms. The phrases are used
convertibly by those who deal in the article.
The lexical definition of crude is "In its natural state, not
cooked or prepared by fire or heat, undressed, not altered,
refined, or prepared for use by any artificial process, raw."
See Webster's Dic.
Upon the trial the plaintiffs produced and identified samples
of argols of the several importations upon which the duties
were paid, and gave proof tending to support their case. The

Oct. 1880.]

RECKNAGEL V. MURPHY.

defendant then gave proof tending to maintain the claim of the
government. The testimony of the witnesses on both sides is
set out at length in the bill of exceptions. That paper then
proceeds "A large number of witnesses were called by the
defendant from the trade and from among the manufactures" of
cream of tartar, and dealers and others, whose testimony tended
to prove that there was an article of commerce and importation unlike the plaintiffs' samples which was in fact ' crude
argols ,' that the plaintiffs' samples exhibited at the trial were
not 'crude argols,' that said samples differed from 'crude
argols,' &c.
These witnesses also testified uniformly that
plaintiffs' samples were refined argols, and in that there was a
difference between them and crude argols, &c.
Samples
of ' crude argols' were exhibited which differed as above stated
from those exhibited by the plaintiffs. Also, that there was a
difference between crude argols and the lees of wine, and that
all these differences were well understood by the trade and by
manufacturers."
The court, after recapitulating with entire fairness the substance of the testimony, said to the jury "The only question
for you to determine is whether these argols were Iargols crude,'
those known to commerce as such or those known to science
as such, or whether they were argols that were more or less
refined."
This instruction was clear and accurate, and it-covered the
entire ground of the controversy Nothing more was necessary
to be said. No amount of verbiage would have improved it.
The jury could have no difficulty in applying it intelligently to
the facts before them.
They knew from the evidence that if there were no substantial change in the condition of the argols, as they were when
they came from the wine cask, they were crude. On the other
hand, if there were such change wrought by a process to which
the argols were subjected, they lost their identity, and took
their place in a new and different category According to the
nomenclature of commerce, they ceased to be crude, and became
refined. They could not be both at the same time. The
measure of refinement was of no consequence, provided it was
sufficient to be material. The elaborate brief submitted for the

THE

" CLARA."

[Sup. Ct.

government shows that, in the customs laws passed from time
to time by Congress, exact analogies to the case in hand have
constantly occurred and are numerous. It is unnecessary particularly to advert to them.
In cases like this, the law recognizes the authority of those
engaged in commerce, and adopts, necessarily and as conclusive,
the meaning which they have given to words and phrases employed in their daily business.
It is needless to notice specifically the several assignments of
error. They relate to the instruction given, and to several asked
by the counsel for the plaintiffs and refused by the court. As
regards the former, we have expressed our approval.
If the latter were in conflict with it, they were properly refused for that reason.
Conceding that they were correct, the instruction given was
sufficient for the case. Nothing more could, therefore, be required of the court. ,latwnal Banc v Burkhardt, 100 U. S.
686.
Judgment affirmed.

THE " CLARA."
A small schooner, having no watch on deck, was lying at anchor inside the Delaware Breakwater in a very dark night, when vessels were constantly arriving
for shelter from an approaching storm. Among them was one well manned,
which, in proceeding to a proper anchorage, without any fault of either omission or commission on her part, collided with and sunk the schooner. If a
sufficient watch had been on the deck of the latter, the coUision might have
been avoided. Held, that the vessel was not liable.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
1

1r Hlenry J Scudder for the appellants.
M r Robert D Benedict and j1r -E.L. Owen, contra.
AI.

JUSTICE SWAYxE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal in admiralty
The case grew out of a
collision between the schooners " Clara" and the " Julia

