Oct. 1880.]

LANGFORD V. MONTEITH.

LANGFORD V. MONTEITH.
1. Where an act of Congress admitting a State into the Union, or organizing a
territorial government, provides, in accordance with a treaty stipulation,
that the lands in the possession of an Indian tribe shall not be a part of
such State or Territory, the new government has no jurisdiction over them.
Harkness v. Hyde (98 U. S. 476) qualified and explained.
2. Where, in a civil suit before a justice of the peace of the Territory of Idaho,
it appears by the answer ctf the defendant, verified by his affidavit, that
the question of title to real estate is necessarily involved, the justice should
certify the case to the District Court for trial. If he proceeds to try it, it
must, on appeal from his judgment, be dismissed.

to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Idaho.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

The Attorney- Generalfor the plaintiff in error.
Hr Benjamrn F Butler, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
Langford, the plaintiff in error, who was plaintiff below,
brought an action before a justice of the peace in the nature of
forcible detainer, to recover of Charles E. Monteith the possession of buildings and grounds occupied by the latter under.the
agent of the United States for the Nez Perc6 Indians.
The plaintiff, in his petition, charges that under a lease
from him the defendant entered with a condition to deliver
possession to the plaintiff on ten days' notice, which was
given.
The defendant answers by alleging that at the time of making the lease he was in possession under John B. Monteith,
Indian agent, that he was induced to take the lease by the
false representation of the plaintiff that he was the owner of
the property, that said buildings and grounds were then and
are now the property of the United States, and that the government had issued orders to defend its possession against the
plaintiff.
Another allegation of the defence is that the property is
situated within an Indian reservation, to which the Indian title
has never been extinguished, and therefore forms no part of
the Territory of Idaho. Of course, if this latter allegation be
MR. JUSTICE MILLER

VOL. Xix.

10

LANGFORD V. MONTEITH.

[Sup. Ct.

true, neither the justice of the peace before whom the case was
first tried, nor the District Court to which it afterwards came
by appeal, had any jurisdiction over it. The opinion of this
court in Harkness v. Hyde (98 U. S. 476) is relied on by the
defendant.
The principle announced in that ease is sound, namely, that
when, by the act of Congress organizing a territorial government, lands are excepted out of the jurisdiction of the
government thus brought into existence, they constitute no
part of such Territory, although they are included within its
boundaries. Congress, from which the power to exercise the
new jurisdiction emanates, has undoubted authority to exclude
therefrom any part of the soil of the United States, or of that
whereto the Indians have the possessory title, when, by our
solemn treaties with them, a stipulation to that effect has
been made.
The applicability of this doctrine to the jurisdiction of places
in which the United States have constructed permanent forts,
arsenals, &c., before such governments are organized, will be
seen at once. Congress has also acted on this principle on the
admission of new States into the Union. The act for the admission of Kansas (12 Stat. 126), after describing its exterior
boundaries, and declaring that the new State is admitted into
the Union on an equal footing with the original States, in all
respects whatever, adds, that nothing contained in the Constitution of the State shall be cbnstrued "to include any territory
which by treaty with such Indian tribe is not, without the consent of said tribe, to be included within the territorial limits
or jurisdiction of any State or Territory, but all such territory
shall be excepted out of the boundaries and constitute no part
of the State of Kansas, until said tribe shall signify their assent
to the President of the United States to be included within said
State." Between the United States and the Shawnees a treaty
then existed by which the United States guaranteed that their
lands should never be brought within the bounds of any State
or Territory, or subject to the laws thereof. In United States
v Ward (1 Woolw 1), the Circuit Court held that the State
courts had no jurisdiction in the lands of the Sbawnees, and
this was repeated in United States v Stahl, id. 192.

Oct. 1880.]

LANGFORD V. MONTEITH.

The act of Congress of March 3, 1863, to provide a temporary
government for the Territory of Idaho (12 Stat. 808), contains
a clause precisely similar to that in the act admitting Kansas
into the Union.
This court, in Harkness v Hyde (supra), relying upon an
imperfect extract found m the brief of counsel, inadvertently
inferred that the treaty with the Shoshones, like that with the
Shawnees, contains a clause excluding the lands of the tribe
from territorial or State jurisdiction. In this it seems we were
laboring under a mistake. Where no such clause or language
equivalent to it is found in a treaty with Indians within the
exterior limits of Idaho, the lands held by them are a part
of the Territory and subject to its jurisdiction, so that process
may run there, however the Indians themselves may be exempt from that jurisdiction. As there is no such treaty with
the Nez Perc6 tribe, on whose reservation the premises in dispute are situated, and as this is a suit between white men,
citizens of the United States, the justice of the peace had
jurisdiction of the parties, if the subject-matter was one of
which he could take cognizance.
Sect. 347 of the act to regulate proceedings in civil cases in
the courts of that Territory declares that, on a trial before a
justice of the peace, if it appear from the plaintiff's own showing, or from the answer of the defendant verified by his oath,
that the determination of the action will necessarily involve the
decision of a question of title to real property, the justice of
the peace shall suspend all further proceedings, and certify the
case to the District Court of the county, which shall thereafter
have jurisdiction over the case as if originally brought in that
court.
The record is imperfect, but it appears that an appeal was
taken from the judgment df the justice of the peace to the District Court, and that the latter overruled the motion of the
defendant to dismiss the case because the justice of the peace
was without jurisdiction to try it. The same matter was urged
in the Supreme Court on appeal from the judgment of the District Court.
We are of opinion that the justice of the peace had no jurisdiction to try the case after the sworn answer of the defendant

GRAHAM V. RAILROAD C0.

[Sup. Ct.

was filed, and that it was his duty to certify it for primary trial
to the District Court. When removed there on appeal, it should
have been dismissed, because there could have been no lawful
trial before the justice.
That the issue tendered by the sworn answer of the defendant
involved the title is clear. If he was holding under the United
States, his attornment to the plaintiff and taking a lease were
void. The question would then arise, whether the title of plaintiff or that of the United States, set up by defendant, was valid.
For the trial of that title, the action brought by the plaintiff
and the forum in which it was commenced were inappropriate.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Idaho on the effect of
their own code of procedure in this respect will not be reversed
here.
Judgment affirmed.

GRAHA.I v. RAILROAD COMPANY.
1. Where a corporation, solvent at the time, and having no actual intent to defraud creditors, disposes of its lands for an inadequate consideration or by
a voluntary conveyance, its subsequent creditors cannot question the transaction.
2. Semble, that where a corporation has waived, or omitted to exercise, the right
to institute proceedings to recover lands of which it has been defrauded,
such right does not inure to the benefit of subsequent creditors or purchasers.
AP:PEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
Tis is a bill in equity filed by Lawrence G. Graham and
Donald D. Scott against the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad Company, the Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company,
Moses Kneeland, James Ludington, Byron Kilbourn, and others,
to subject certain real estate in the city of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to the satisfaction of certain judgments recovered by the
complainants against the first-named company for an indebtedness on contracts arising after its sale and conveyance of that
real estate, to Charles D. Nash. The defendants deraign title
through him.

