UNITED STATES V. SCHURZ.

[Sup. Ct.

This testimony leaves nothing of the substance of the plumtiffs' alleged invention. No one, we apprehend, would seriously
contend for a moment that what is left is sufficient to constitute the basis of a valid patent. Brown v Pzper, 91 U. S. 37,
and the authorities there cited. But, irrespective of this testimony, and of any testimony, upon looking this reissue in
the face, and examining its several claims by their own light,
we find nothing that brings any of them within the sphere
of what is properly patentable. There is no novelty and no
utility It does not appear (to use the language of appellants'
brief) that there was "a flash of thought" by which such a
result as to either was reached, or that there was any exercise
of the inventive faculty, more or less thoughtful, whereby anything entitled to the protection of a patent was produced. It
strikes us that the entirety and all the particulars of the summary and the claims are frivolous, and nothing more.
Patents rightfully issued are property, and are surrounded
by the same rights and sanctions which attend all other property Patentees as a class are public benefactors, and their
rights should be protected. But the public has rights also.
The rights of both should be upheld and enforced by an equally
firm hand, wherever they come under judicial consideration.
Decree affirmed.

UNITED STATES V. SCtUBZ.
1. The Supreme Court of the Distnct of Columbia is authorized to issue the
writ of mandaiausas an original process in cases where, by the principles of
the common law, the petitioner is entitled to it.
2. When a patent for a part of the public lands has been regularly signed, sealed,
countersigned, and duly recorded, the patentee has a perfect right to the
possession thereof.
3. In the progress of the proceedings to acquire, under the laws of the United
States, a title to public land, the power of the Land Department over them
ceases when the last official act necessary to transfer the title to the successful claimant has been performed.
4. Title by patent from the United States is title by record, and the delivery of
the instrument to the patentee is not, as m a conveyance by a private person, essential to pass the title.

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. ScHURZ.

5. Therefore, when the officers whose action is rendered by the laws necessary
to vest the title in the claimant have decided in hIs favor, and the patent
to him has been duly signed, sealed, countersigned, and recorded, the title
of the land passes to him, and the mimsterial duty of delivering the instrument can be enforced by mandamus.
6. An acceptance of the grant will, in such case, be presumed from Ins efforts to
secure the 'favorable action of the department, and especially from his
demand for the possession of the patent.

ERRoR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This is a petition for a mandamus, filed in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, Oct. 11, 1879. It alleges
that the relator, Thomas McBride, -was, in 1862, possessed of
all the qualifications necessary to entitle him to pre-empt one
hundred and sixty acres of the public lands of the United States,
that he, in that year, settled upon a tract of public land known
as the S. )- of the N. E. I and lots 1 and 2 of section 6, T. 8, S.
of R. 5 W., situate in the county of Tooele and Territory of
Utah, containing a little less'than one hundred and sixty acres,
with intent to appropriate it under the laws of the United States,
and has continuously inhabited, occupied, and cultivated it, that
he, May 31, 1869, in due form and time, made, at the landoffice in Salt Lake City, ,a homestead entry of it, that he occupied, cultivated, and resided upon it for more than five years
thereafter, and, June 15, 1874, made due proof thereof, paid the
fees, and received a final certificate therefor; that his said proofs
and papers were duly forwarded to the Commissioner of the
General, Land-Office, who found them to be in all respects in
compliance with law, and such as to entitle the relator to a
patent, that, in accordance with that finding, a patent for the
tract was, Sept. 26, 1877, duly signed, sealed, and, by the'Recorder of the General Land-Office, countersigned and recorded
in the proper land records of. the United States, that it was,
Oct. 3, 1877, transmitted by the commissioner to the local
land-officers at Salt Lake City, with instructions to deliver it
tb the relator, and was received by them, that he appeared at
said land-office, and demanded of them to deliver the patent to
him, that they refused to do so, because they had been instructed by the comnissioner, Oct. 14, 1877, to return it, that
it was so returned Oct. 22, 1878, and was then in the Department of the Interior, subject to the control of the Secretary of

UNITED STATES v.

SCHURZ.

[Sup. Ct.

the Interior, that Carl Schurz is such Secretary, and that the
relator, Oct. 6, 1879, demanded of him, at his office in the
Department of the Interior, the delivery of said patent, but
the Secretary, on the tenth day of that month, absolutely refused to deliver it. The petition prays that the writ of mandamus issue, directing the Secretary to deliver the patent to
the relator.
The relator, pursuant to leave of the court, filed, Oct. 21,
1879, a supplemental petition.
The Secretary filed his answer on the twenty-fourth day of
that month, setting up that the lands claimed by the relator
were, at the time of his entry, within the incorporated limits of
the city of Grantsville, that, without knowledge by the register
of the local land-office that the tract was within those limits,
the entry was admitted, that in 1874 the relator made final
proof thereof, that in February, 1877, the mayor and corporate
authorities of Grantsville applied to the register to make entry
of its town site under the act of March 2, 1867, that their
application included the land in question, that upon his refusal to permit the entry while the land was included in that
of McBride, application was made, Feb. 24, 1877, to have the
entry cancelled, as illegally and improvidently allowed, which
application was duly forwarded by the register to the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, that prior to regular action
thereon a patent was prepared, m September, 1877, signed and
sealed, and transmitted on the third of the following month to
the register, for delivery to McBride upon the surrender of the
duplicate receipt, that afterward, upon taking up the record of
contest for examination, the commissioner, discovering that the
patent had been improvidently prepared and transmitted, ordered its recall, that it was thereupon returned by the register,
no demand having been made for its delivery at the date of the
receipt of the commissioner s instructions, that, upon the examination of the record of contest, the claim of McBride to the
land was rejected by the commissioner, which rejection was, on
appeal by the relator, affirmed by the acting Secretary of the
Interior, and afterward by the respondent on review The undelivered patent was then regularly cancelled, together with
the entry upon which it was based.

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES v. SCHURZ.

The answer of the Secretary was accompanied by certain
exhibits. The relator filed a replication thereto.
The following agreed statement of facs was signed by counsel for the respective parties "Agreed Statement of Counsel.
"In the Supreme Court of.the District of Columbia, this fourteenth

day of November, 1879.
"Ti

ex relatione
THo-mAs M[oBaDmE,

UNTITED STATES,

At law. No. 21,200.
VS.
CAIL SCHuRz, Secretary of the De-I
partment of the Interior.

"Be it remembered that on the hearing of this cause before the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, sitting in general

term, on the twenty-eighth day of October, 1879, it was conceded
by both parties that all the allegations of the original petition were
true, except the one that the premises named in the petition were
in 1862 subject to pre-emption filing or homestead entry
"It was iilso conceded that the case relating to said premises, set
out in the answer of respondent, had been appealed from the decision of the Commissioner of the General Land-Office to the Secretary of the Interior, and was pending before the said secretary at
the time the demand for said patent was made on him, as set forth
in the said original petition of relator, and for some days thereafter,
and that at the time of said demand, and for some days thereafter,
the said patent was, with the papers in said case, as an exhibit in
said case, in the office of the Secretary of the Interior, and was not
in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land-Office.
"It was also conceded that the incorporated town of Grantsville,
set forth in the answer of the respondent, was in fact the incorporated city of Grantsville, and that it was incorporated by the terntoral legislature of Utah on the twelfth day of January, 1876, and
that said act should be treated as referred to and made a part of
this case.
"All other matters in said case stood upon the original and sup.plemental petition, the answer of respondent, and the replication
thereto. There was no other or further proof or evidence offered
by either party
"One of the rules of this court is as follows -

UNITED STATES v. SCHURZ.

[Sup. Ot.

"33. The joinder in issue may be "'The plaintiff joins issue upon the defendant's first plea.
"'The defendant joins issue upon the plaintiff's replication to the
first plea.'
"And this form of joinder shall be deemed to be a denial of the
substance of the pleading to which it relates, and an issue thereon.
"And thereupon the said court, upon the tenth day of November,
1879, upon the evidence and pleading aforesaid, gave judgment for
the said respondent.
"The foregoing facts are stipulated to be a full and true statement of this case, and made part of the record therein.
"Nov. 14, 1879.
"W
H. SMITH,

"1Att'yfor _Pff
"1U. J. BAXTEr,
"Of Counsel for Respondent.
"Whereupon the court orders the said stipulation to be made of
record in the case."
Instead of an alternative writ of mandamus, a, rule upon the
Secretary to show cause was granted by the court. The ease
was heard upon the pleadings and the above agreed statement,
and the rule discharged.
Thereupon the United States on the relation of McBride
sued out this writ, and assigns for error that the court below
erred in refusing to issue a mandamus in conformity to the
prayer of the petition.
Mr Walter .H. Smith and Mr James Hf. landeville for the
relator.
1. The court below had jurisdiction. Kendall v United
States, 12 Pet. 524. The whole question was fully and elaborately argued in that case, and the doctrine announced, that, by
reason of the adoption of the laws of Maryland for the government of this part of the District, the Circuit Court, under the
act of Feb. 27, 1801, which established it and defined its jurisdiction. could, as incident to its common-law powers, issue the
writ to an executive officer of the United States, it at that
time haying general jurisdiction in cases at common law, and
being the highest court of original jurisdiction in the District.
That decision has been followed in all the subsequent cases.
The Circuit Court has, it is true, been superseded by the court

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. SCHURZ.

below, but the latter has the same powers, and the statutory
provisions which were regarded as controlling in Kendall v
United States are still in force,, and are as applicable to it as
they were to the Circuit Court.
2. We admit that the Secretary of the Interior, in carrying into effect his supervisory and appellate power over the
branches of the public service committed to his department
is not subject to judicial control in matters involving the exercise of his judgment and discretion. When the demand in
question was made there was no longer any scope for the exercise of either. He had but a plain ministerial duty to perform
after the title had been transferred to McBride by the due execution and recording of the patent. Being a title by record,
the delivery of the patent was not necessary to vest the land
in individual proprietorship. Phillip'sLessee v Irwin, 1 Tenn.
285, Green v Liter, 8 Cranch, 247, Cunningham v Browning,
1 Bland, 304, Steele v Lowry, 4 Ohio, 72, .Enfield v Pennit,
8 N. H. 515, Lapeyre v United States, 17 Wall. 191, Le~oy
v Clayton, 2 Sawyer, 496, Le-oy v Jamzson, 8 id. 891, Marbury v ladison, 1 Cranch, 187, Lavergnes' Hesrs v Elkin,
17 La. 227, Mitchell v Ryan, 8 Ohio St. 387, Donner v
Palmer, 81 Cal. 510, Chipley v Farris,45 id. 539, Miller v
Ellis, 57 id. 73, People v invzngston, 8 Barb. (N. Y) 255,
Smalley v HeLain, 14 Ga. 254, Willis v Jermin, Cro. Eliz.
167, -Exparte Beek, 1 Bro. C. C. 578, Ex parte Hoop, 6 Yes.
599, Leighton's Case, 2 Vern. 173, O'Reilly's Case, 1 Ves. Jr.
112, Ex parte Kurtnan, 3 Rich. (S. C.) Ch. 257, 8 Op. Atty Gen. 654, Bacon's Abr., tit. Pre. F , 2 BI. Com. 844 ; 8 Wash.
Real Prop. 520.
The lands covered by the patent having ceased to be a part
of the public domain, the Secretary's jurisdiction to determine
any conflicting claim to them absolutely ceased. He might as
well have tried an action of ejectment for a parcel of ground in
this city, or passed a decree to quiet the title thereto.
8. It has been urged that a patent is sometimes improvidently
executed and recorded under a mistake of fact, or from error
in law, and .that public mischief and individual hardship will
*ensue if the Secretary has no authority to recall it before its
delivery, and cause it to be cancelled and the record of it to be
expunged.

UNITED STATES V. SCIURZ.

[Sup. ct,

To this we answer, First, that the destruction of a deed,
after it has worked a transfer of title, does not reinvest the
estate in the grantor. Secondly, that the assumption of a
power not conferred by law finds no pistification in the fact
that a mischief may be thereby suppressed, or a private right
maintained, even conceding that the power may in some hands
be wisely exercised to secure what is believed to 'be a lawful
end. If in the administration of the land system further powers should be vested ii the Secretary of the Interior, Congress alone can confer them. Thirdly, that it is the exclusive
province of the courts to avoid, in a direct proceeding, a
patent which has been granted on a false suggestion, or by
mistake. Bruner v 2fanlove, 1 Scam. 161, il£owry v Whitney,
14 Wall. 434, boll v illeader, 16 Cal. 295, Leese v Clark, 18
id. 372, People v Stratton, 25 id. 242, Brady v Beguvn, 26
Barb. (N Y ) 529, State v Bachelder, 5 Minn. 223, Arnold v
-rCmmes, 2 Iowa, 85 , Patterson v Vinn, 9 Pet. 663, Williams
v Carpenter, 33 Mo. 52.
4. In this case the Secretary, by -vithholding the patent and
the exemplification of it, wrongfully deprives the relator of the
indispensable evidence of his title, and the latter, having no
other adequate remedy, is entitled to a inandanius. .1i1arbury
v llfadison, 1 Cranch, 137.
5. The Secretary is the proper party defendant. Rev Stat.,
sects. 441, 453.
The Attorney- General, contra.
1. The court below has no 3urisdiction to issue a mandamus
to an executive officer of the United States. The statute which
in .tendallv The United States (12 Pet. 524), and in subsequent cases, was construed as vesting the Circuit Court or the
Supreme Court of the District with such jurisdiction has been
repealed.
By the Revised Statutes relating to the District of ColumThey,
bia certain sections are substituted for that statute.
if differing in language or effect from it, must prevail in all
cases thereafter arising. Boiwen v United States, 100 U. S.
508.
Sect. 61 gave power to the legislative assembly to modify
the practice and enlarge the jurisdiction of the courts of the

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. SCHURZ.

District whenever necessary to the due executioli and enforcement of the laws of the District.
Sect. 89 continued in force the organization of the judicial
courts.
Sect. 91 continued in force the local municipal laws.
Sect. 92, which is first in importance in this connection, continued in force the laws of the State of Maryland not %neonststent with thts title, as the same existed on the 27th of February,
1801, except as since modified or repealed by Congress or by
authority thereof, or until so modified or repealed.
Sect. 93 declares that the Constitution and all laws of the
United States not locally inApplicable shall have the same force
and effect within the District as elsewhere within the United
States.
These are the existing provisions. They undoubtedly include the former laws of Maryland which, as local law, are
necesgary to the proper administration of justice in the District.
The Maryland laws governing local matters, individual rights,
and personal transactions are preserved for all the ends of
municipal and local government. Whatever goes beyond this
and relates to officers of the United States as such, whose duties
are supposed to be the same whether in or out of the District,
trenches upon the domain of Federal law, and must be considered as not local in its character. Such general laws must
be applied with the same force and effect in the District of
Columbia as elsewhere. Sect. 93. If no local reason exists for
enlarging their scope, they have no exclusive application to
the District.
The Revised Statutes vest the courts of the District with the
same jurisdiction as that possessed and exercised by the Circuit and the District Courts of the United States. Sect. 763,
as amended by the act of Feb. 27, 1877 (19 Stat. 253), grants
the local jurisdiction necessary to the enforcement of the laws
previously cited. Such jurisdiction was not included in that
conferred upon the courts of the District as circuit and district courts. This jurisdiction is limited by sect. 767-769,
with respect to original pleas, subordinate and inferior causes
being confided to justices of the peace, under chapter 31 of the
Revised Statutes relating to the Districk of Columbia.
VOL. Xi.

25

UNITED

STATES V. SCHURZ.

[Sup. Ct.

Now, while it is true that. the statutes and the common law
which prevailed in Maryland in 1801 were, by act of Congress,
continued in force in this District, yet Kendall v United States
(supra) declares that the power of the Circuit Court to exercise the jurisdiction now in question resulted from the analogy which that court, as the lghest judicial tribunal within
the District, bore to the highest Maryland court, and that its
power to issue a mandamus to an executive officer was conferred by the third section of the act of Feb. 27, 1801, giving
it the same jurisdiction as the circuit courts of the United
States theii possessed under the act of Feb. 13, 1801. The
subsequent repeal of the latter act, it was held, did not change
within the District the jurisdiction previously vested. As that
third section is repealed, the grant of "the same jurisdiction as
the circuit courts of the United States" which is made to the
Supreme Court of the District by the act of revision, June 22,
1874, must be measured and determined by the law as it stood
at the latter date. 1Xe Clung v Silliman (6 Wheat. 598) and
MXeIttre v Wood (7 Cranch, 504) expressly decide that since
the repeal of the act of Feb. 13, 1801 (2 Stat. 89), by that of
April 29, 1802 (2 Stat. 156), no such jurisdiction as that now
claimed is vested in the circuit courts of the United States. It
cannot, therefore, be exercised by the court below
2. It is conceded by the counsel for the relator that such
jurisdiction, if it exists, does not extend to the acts of the Secretary which involve the exercise of his judgment and discretion.
The issue of a patent for public lands of the United States is
such an act, and to render the instrument effectual delivery
is essential.
This conclusion may be drawn from the language of the law
Sect. 453, Rev Stat., requires the Commissioner of the General
Land-Office to perform, under the direction of the Secretary of
the Interior, "all executive duties" which relate to " the issuing of patents for all grants of land under the authority of the
government." Sect. 458 prescribes the requisites as to their
form, signature, and record. Sect. 459 provides for a special
officer to complete the"issue, "in pursuance of instructions from
the commissioner," by certifying, affixing the seal, engrossing,
recording, and transmitting such patents. These are the pre-

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. SCHURZ.

scribed "executive duties" which relate to the issuing of the
patent as previously assigned. Each statutory proceeding is
essential to the operation of the whole.
In 11c aarrahanv Minzng Company (96 U. S. 316), it is said
that "the patent executed in the prescribed form which issues
from the General Land-Office is made the instrument of passing title out of the United States." Here it is obvious that the
execution in the prescribed form is referred to as being quite
distinct from, and independent of, the issue from the General
Land-Office. Execution is not issue, nor does the patent issue
by the record, for it is immediately said by the court that "the
record called for by the act of Congress is made by copying
the patent to be issued into the book kept for that purpose.
The effect of the record, therefore, is to show that an instrument such as is there copied has actually been prepared for
issue from the General Land-Office." The issue from the office
must, in pursuance of this doctrine, mean something beyond
and subsequent to the recording, and the next statutory duty
named in sect. 459 is the "transmission" of such patent.
Here is the final executive duty connected with the instrument
itself, and by it delivery to the patentee must be intended. It
will not do to say that this does not mean delivery, without
suggesting any other possible definition. The established regulations of the General Land-Office require this duty of the
recorder, and rules are published governing the transmission of
patents to the patentees through the intervention of the District
land-officers as agents of the government, or directly from the
General Land-Office, the possession of the instrument never
being given up except upon surrender of the duplicate receipt,
or proof, by affidavit, of its loss. For authority 'to establish
such regulations, see ,Snyder v Sickles, 98 U. S. 203, Rev.
Stat. 2478.
Here, then, is an official executive act necessary to the complete issue of the patent, and essential to its operation to
pass the title of the United States. The delivery, personally,
by the recorder is said to be a better recognition of its validity than the record itself. Mcrarrahanv. lMinzng Compavy,
supra. And, again, in speaking of the effect of an imperfect
instrument perfectly recorded, ,or a perfect instrument imper-

UNITED STATES V. SCHURZ.

[Sup. Ct.

fectly recorded, to prove a grant, the court says, "If a perfect
patent has in fact issued, it must be proved ii some other way
than by the record." p. 323.
The issue, which, it has been shown, is subsequent to the
record, and can only mean delivery, is treated as the thing to
be proved, all the matters of record are but instruments of
evidence to establish the fact of issue. And so the court says
"When a right to a patent is complete, and the last formalities
of the law in respect to its execution and issue have been complied with by the officers of the government charged with that
duty, the record-will be treated as presumptive evidence of its
delivery to and acceptance by the grantee." And in the final
clause it is said that the record will be treated as a perfect
record of an imperfect instrument, "until overcome by proof
that the instrument as executed and delivered was valid." The
only reasonable inference from these repeated allusions to the
delivery and possession of the patent is that delivery is deemed
by this court to be essential to the complete issue of the patent
and the conveyance of the legal title.
And to the same effect is Moore v Bobbins, 96 U. S. 530.
It is there said "When the patent has been awarded to one
of the contestants, and has been issued, delivered, and accepted,
all right to control the title, or to decide on the right to the
title, has passed from the land-office." p. 532. Again "If
is delivered to and accepted by the party
the patent
the title of the government passes with this delivery. With the
title passes away all authority or control of the executive departinent over the land, and over the title which it has conveyed."
p. 533. This moment of delivery and acceptance is the instant
when authority and control over the title cease, and the issue is
Up to that moment executive authority and
complete in law
discretion continue, and the official functions, with which the
courts cannot interfere, remain unimpaired in the officer having
original power in the matter. The court says. " The functions
of that department necessarily cease when the title has passed
from the government. And the title does so pass where, under
the decisions of the officers having authority in the matter, a
conveyance, generally called a patent, has been signed by the
President, and sealed and delivered to and accepted by the
grantee."

p. 533.

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. SCHURZ.

This has been declared to be the effect of executive acts,
done within the scope of legal authority Attention was specially directed to the action of the department in land cases.
The inquiry of the court, on p. 534, was, "If such a power
exists, when does it cease?" The answer, three times asserted,
fixes as the precise period of time the delivery and acceptance
of the patent. The patentee, taking by matter of record the
grant of the government, may rely on such record, after the
complete issue and delivery of his patent, for proof that it
was so delivered and accepted. The record is undoubtedly presumptive evidence of the delivery, as it is also of the validity of
the grant, but it does not operate to complete title without
such delivery In 2 Bl. Com. 348, it is said that the king's
grant, if he grants an estate contrary to law, or if his own title
to the thing granted be different from what he supposes, is absolutely void. Washburn on Real Property (vol. iii. p. 520)
says 'that the patent, "when regularly and properly issued,
becomes a complete evidence of, title."
It thus appears that delivery is essential to the issue of a
patent. Up to that time, its regularity can be determined only
by the Interior Department. The courts have not yet acqiired
jurisdiction. In Bell v Hearne (19 How 252) and lXagure
v Tyler (1 Black, 195, and 8 Wall. 664), patents had been
prepared and delivered. The court held that, as there was no
acceptance, the delivery was not good, and 'the recall and cancellation of them were proper, leaving the status of the land
precisely as it had been before the instruments were recorded.
In the first case, the patent had reached the true grantee,
John Bell, but, by error in the certificate of entry, it had been
executed in favor of James Bell, and by assignment the land
had passed to other parties as his property But the court sustained the recall of the surrendered patent against the claim of
James Bell, who alleged that he was the grantee of record, and
it gave as a reason, that the patent had never been delivered
to him.
These cases cannot be explained except upon the theory that
the delivery was essential, that a refusal to accept the patent
prevented such delivery, and upon its return to the Commissioner of the General Land-Office he had power to cancel it and

UNITED STATES V. SCIzURZ.

[Sup. Ot.

the record thereof, and deal with the lands according to their
status before its execution. For, if the record proved title, the
latter had passed without delivery, and to restore it a reconveyance would have been required. But the court says that
the status of the land was the same after the recall as before
the preparation of the patent. Never having been effectually
delivered, its possession by the commissioner gave him jurisdiction for good cause to cancel it. Doswell v -De la -Lanza,
20 How 29, Phillips v Shaw, 36 Ala. 189.
McBride can take nothing by the mere execution and recording of his patent without delivery If a mistake in the condition
of the title, or a want of authority to issue it, be discovered before completing its issue by delivery, no title or right depending
on such execution passed to him, and the department may treat
it as void, and proceed to dispose of the land according to law
The cases cited fully sustain this position. Title by matter of
record, as shown by the authorimes cited by his counsel, differs
from feoffmient only in not requiring livery of seisin to vest the
title. It does not dispeise with delivery of the instrument.
This is true in most cases of deed by private individuals or
municipal bodies in the American States, but the deed takes
effect only from delivery County of Calhoun v American Efmzgrant Company, 93 U. S. 124.
3. Constructive delivery may and does exist where the
grantor, ii the exercise of his proper authority, places the
deed in the hands of a stranger for the use of the grantee,
or even in some cases where lie retains possession, at the same
time sufficiently manifesting ,his intention to treat it as having passed the title to the grantee. This doctrine cannot, however, prevail in this proceeding. The petition admits and the
record shows that the instrument has never passed from the
custody of the government, and McBride sues to compel its
original delivery He cannot now assert that there has already
been a constructive delivery
The latter cannot be presumed, for the further reason, that
at the date of the demand the fact had become known to the
proper officer that he had mistaken the true condition of the
title, and was forbidden by law to issue the patent as the act
and deed of the government.

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES v. SOHURZ.

The direction to a subordinate official to deliver it was to
take effect only upon the express acceptance of McBride, accompanied by his surrender of the outstanding duplicate, or
proof of its loss. This direction might be revoked upon discovery of sufficient reasons to defeat the efficacy of the patent,
just as final delivery might have been refused by the commissioner hid it remained in bis personal custody Before its preparation, and afterwards, the authorities of Grantsville claimed
the land under the town-site law of 1867 14 Stat. 541. There
was a contest pending and undetermined before the land-office,
between them and McBride, involving their respective rights.
The patent was prepared, therefore, by some accident or mistake, in violation of law and the rules of the department. It
necessarily follows that the power to adjudge whether it ought
to issue had not been exercised by the Commissioner of the
General Land-Office in the first instance, or by the Secretary
on appeal. They were, therefore, not precluded from further
examining and deciding the case according to the rules and
regulations-of the department. Nor could they deprive either
contestant of the right to a full hearing by the delivery of an
improvidently prepared patent to the other.
Lands within town-site limits are excluded from the operation
of the homestead law
Hence, in 1869; McBride's entry was
illegal, and a patent, if issued to him thereon for the land, would
be equally so. "No title can be held valid which has been
acquired agkinst law
The patent of defendant having
been for lands reserved for such appropriation is void." Stoddard v Chambers, 2 How 284, Ross v Doe ex dem. Barland,
1 Pet. 655, Lzndsey v Xiller's Lessee, 6 id. 666, Brown v
Clements, 3 How 650, 5 Op. Att.-Gen. 9. Newhall v Sanger
(93 U. S. 761) holds in effect that the patents to the railroad company, not having been issued in "compliance with the requirements of the acts of Congress, commonly known as the Pacific
Railroad Acts," were invalid and passed no title. So, in Leavenworth, Lawrence, J- Galveston Railroad Co. v United States (id.
733), the certified lists of selected lands, furnished by the Commissioner of the General Land-Office to the Governor of Kansas,
which, by statute (10 Stat. 346), have the force and effect of a
patent, were pronounced void, as the lands were not subject to

UNITED STATES V. SCHURZ.

[Sup. Ct.

selection under the grant to that State for railroad purposes.
To the same effect are Bewhart v Pelps, 6 Wall. 160, Shepley
et al. v Cowan et al., 91 U. S. 830, Wirth v Branson, 98 id.
118.
The case is this By some inadvertence, a patent, which if
delivered would pass no title, was prepared, signed, sealed, and
recorded. The fact was discovered before the instrument had
passed from the possession of the Interior Department, and
before a decision as to McBride's right was made. It was
withheld pending the final disposition of the contest involving
the title to the land, and the decision has been rendered against
hn. As its delivery would be illegal, it is respectfully submitted that the Secretary cannot be compelled to do an act
which is either unlawful or beyond his rightful jurisdiction
and authority
after stating the case, delivered the
the
court.
opinion of
Some question was made, on the argument in this court, as
to the effect of the answer as evidence, and the practice in the
Court of King's Bench, in England, has been referred to as
making the return to the writ conclusive, or at least evidence,
of all it states. We are relieved of any difficulty on this point
by the stipulation of the parties.
No writ of mandamus, alternative or otherwise, was issued.
There was, therefore, no technical return, and in strictness the
rule applicable to such a writ does not apply If, however, it
could be held that the answer to the rule to show cause stands
in the place of a return to a writ of mandamus, the parties have
voluntarily made their own issues, and stipulated as to the
evidence which shall be considered by the court.
By this stipulation the allegations of the original petition,
except one which is specified, are to be taken as true. Certain
other facts are then set out. It is then added that all other
matters stand upon the original and supplemental petitions, the
answer, and replication, and that there was no other or further
proof offered by either party As the replication distinctly put
in issue every paragraph of the answer, as no evidence was
offered in support of the answer, and as the rule of the court is
M.. JUSTICE MILLER,

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED

STATES v. SCHURZ.

recithd which makes the replication in this case a denial of the
substance of the pleading to which it relates, we must exclude
the supplemental petition and the answer of the respondent as
evidence, and decide the case on the allegations of the original
petition and the facts stipulated in the agreed case.
We are met at the threshold of this inquiry by a denial of
the authority of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
to issue a writ of mandamus, as an original process.
The argument is, that the jtirisdiction of that court over this
class of subjects is governed by sect. 760 of the Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia. That section enacts
that "the Supreme Court shall possess the same power and exercise the same jurisdiction as the circuit courts of the United
States." As this court decided m Il"entre v Wood (7 Cranch,
504) and Hl'cClung v Silliman (6 Wheat. 598) that the circuit courts of the'United States possessed no such power, the
argument would be perfect if no other powers on that subject
existed in the Supreme Court of the District than what is conferred by the above section.
This court, an Kendall v United States (12 Pet. 524), had
under consideration the act of Feb. 27, 1801, organizing originally the courts of this District. It was held that the clause of
the act declaring the laws of Maryland to be in force at that
date in the part of the District ceded by her invested the Circuit Court, as it was then called, with this very power, because
it was a common-law jurisdiction, and the common law on
that subject was then in forcg in Maryland. This proposition
has been repeatedly upheld By the court since that time, and
up to the date of the revision it was no longer an open question that in a proper case the court had authority to issue the
writ.
It is now said, however, that this section being enacted as of
the first day of December, 1873, defines the jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court of the District as governed by the powers of
the circuit courts of the United States over the same subject
at that date, at which time it is clear these latter courts had
no such power, and that, as the revision repealed all other
laws on the same subject, the act concerning the law of Maryland no longer applied to the case.

UNITED STATES V. SCHU[uZ.

[Sup. Ct.

This leaves out of the process of reasoning the ninety-second
section of the revision, which declares again that "the laws
of the State of Maryland, not inconsistent with this title, as
the same existed oii the twentv-seventh day of July, 1801, except as since modified or repealed by Congress or by authority
thereof, or until so modified or repealkd, continue in force
within the District." Thus the argument is precisely the
same as it was in Kendall v United States, for it was urged
there, as here, that as the act creating the court measured its
jurisdiction by that of the circuit courts of the United States,
whnch had no such jurisdiction, there could be none in the former, to which the court replied, the provision which continued
in force the laws of Maryland.
The revision has merely separated the different sections of
the act of Feb. 27, 1801, and placed part of it in sect. 760 and
part of it in sect. 92. Neither provision isrepealed, and we
tlink that both of them are retained, with the construction
placed on them by this court in Kendall v United States and
the subsequent cases. But this question would seem to be
set at rest by the act of 1877, "to perfect the revision of
the Statutes of the United States, and of the statutes relating
to the District of Columbia." The act amends sect. 763 of
the Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia, by
enacting that " said courts shall have cognizance of all crimes
and offences comitted within said District, and of all cases
in law and equity between parties, both or either of which
shall be resident or be found within said District, and also of
all actions or suits of a civil *ature at common law or in
eqmty, in which the United States shall be plaintiffs or complainants." 19 Stat. 253.
We are of opinion that the authority to issue writs of mandamnus in cases in whih the parties are by the common law
entitled to them is vested in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
We proceed to inquire whether the relator has made such
a case.
If the relator was entitled to the possession of the patent as
his property, and it was the plain duty of the Secretary to
deliver it to him when demanded, then, under all the author-

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. SCHURZ.

ifies, and especially the decisions of tis court, lie is entitled
to the remedy he asks. From the case of 11.arbury v lMadison
(1 Craneh, 137), down to the present time, such has been the
settled doctrine of this court. And though it may be said that
the opinion of Mr. Chief Justice Marshall in that case was not
necessary to the decision made, which was that tkzs court had
no original jurisdiction in that case, the principles of the opinion have since been repeatedly recognized and acted upon in
this court, and the case cited with approval in its definition
of the circumstances under which persons holding public offices
will be compelled to perform certain duties which are merely
ministerial. Kendall v United States, 12 Pet. 524, Decatur
v. Paulding,14 id. 497, Kendall v Stokes et al., 3 How. 87,
Uornmzsszoner of Patents v Whiteley, 4 Wall. 522.
The next objection to issuing the writ which we are called
to consider is that the Secretary, in deciding whether lie would
deliver the patent to McBride or not, was called upon to exercise a judgment and discretion on the case presented to him
which were not merely ministerial, but which were rather
judicial in their character, and in regard to which many matters were to be considered, - such as theovadidity of the title
conferred by the patent, the circumstances under which it was
signed, sealed, and recorded, and the conflicting rights of other
parties to the lands covered by it. In short, that this execution of the patent concluded nothing, and the authority of the
Secretary and the Commissioner of the General Land-Office to
deal with the whole subject, including the relator's right to the
lands, remained unaffected by the patent. Whether this be so
or not must depend upon the authority conferred by Congress
upon those officers, and the effect of the patent in the stage
which it had reached when the demand for its possession was
made by McBride.
The Constitution of the United States declares that Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules
and regulations respecting the territory and other property
belonging to the United States. Under this provision the sale
of the public lands was placed by statute under the control of
the Secretary of the Interior. To aid him in the performance of this duty, a bureau was created, at the head of wnch

UNITED

STATES v. SCHURZ.

[Sup. Ct.

is the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, with many
subordinates. To them, as a special tribunal, Congress confided the execution of the laws which regulate the surveying,
the selling, and the general care of these lands.
Congress has also enacted a system of laws by which rights
to these lands may be acquired, and'the title of the government conveyed to the citizen. This court has with a strong
hand upheld the doctrine that so long as the legal title to
these lands remained in the United States, and the proceedings
for acquiring it were as yet in fierz, the courts would not interfere to control the exercise of the power thus vested in that
tribunal. To that doctrine we still adhere.
But we have also held that when, by the action of these officers and of the President of the United States, in issuing a
patent to a citizen, the title to the lands has passed from the
government, the question as to the real ownership of them is
open in the proper courts to all the considerations appropriate
to the case. And this is so, whether the suit is by the United
States to set aside the patent and recover back the title so
conveyed, as in United States v Stone (2 Wall. 525), or by
an individual to cause the title conveyed by the patent to be
held in trust for him by the patentee on account of equitable
circumstances which entitle the complainant to such relief.
Johnson v. Towsleg, 13 id. 72, and other cases.
In the case before us it is said that the instrument called a
patent, which -purports in the name of the United States to
convey to MlcBride the lands in controversy, is not effectual
for that purpose for want of delivery That though signed,
sealed, countersigned, and recorded, and.then sent to the register of the land-office at Salt Lake City for delivery to him, it
never was so delivered, and has always remained under the
control of the officers of the Land Department, and that the
instrument is invalid as a deed of conveyance for want of delivery to the grantee. If it were conceded that delivery of the
patent is essential to the transfer of title to the grantee, and
that such delivery is required as is necessary in a conveyance
from man to man, it would be a question of some difficulty to
decide whether such delivery took place in this case. The
well-known principle by which the intention of the grantor in

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES v. SCHURZ.

a deed to make an act which falls far short of manual delivery,
to stand for delivery, when so designed, might well be applied
to the act of the commissioner in transmitting the patent by
mail to the local office for the purpose of delivery, while, on
the other hand, it is argued with much force that the instrument never actually passed from the land-office or the control
of its officers. We do not think the decision of this point
necessary to the case before us.
We are of opinion that when, upon the decision of the proper
office that the citizen has become entitled to a patent for a portion of the public lands, such a patent made out in that office
is signed by the President, sealed with the seal of the General
Land-Office, countersigned by the recorder of the land-office,
and duly recorded in the record-book kept for that purpose, it
becomes a solemn public act of the government of the United
States, and needs no further delivery or other authentication
to make it perfect and valid. In such case the title to the
land conveyed passes by matter of record to the grantee, and
the delivery which is required when a deed is made by a private individual is not necessary to give effect to the granting
clause of the instrument.
The authorities on this subject are numerous and uniform.
They have their origmin the decisions of the English courts
upon the grants of the crown evidenced by instruments called
there, as here, patents.
Blackstone describes four modes of alienation or transfer of
title to real estate, which he calls common assurance the first
of which is by matter ih pats or deed, the second by matter of
record, or an assurance transacted only in the king's public
courts of record, the third by special custom, and the fourth
by devise .in a last will or testament.
In the chapter devoted to alienation by deed he enumerates
among the requisites to its validity the act of delivery Book
2, c. 20. But in chapter 21, devoted to alienation by matter
of record, nothing is said about delivery as necessary to pass
the title, and under this head. he includes the king's grants.
These, he says, are all made matter of public record, and are
contained in charters or letters-patent. He then recites the
processes by which patents are prepared and perfected, the

UNITED STATES V. SCHURZ.

[Sup. Or.

various officers through whose hands they pass, and the manner
of affixing the seal to them, and their final enrolment. They
are then perfect grants, and no mention is made of delivery
as a prerequisite to their validity After this they can only
be revoked or annulled by scire faczas or other judicial proceeding. The importance attached to the delivery of the
deed in modern conveyancing arises largely from the fact that
the deed has taken the place of the ancient livery of seisin
in feudal tines, when, in order to give effect to the enfeoffment of the new tenant, the act of delivering possession in
a public and notorious manner was the essential evidenc( of
the investiture of the title to the land. This became gradually diminished in importance until the manual delivery of a
piece of the turf, and many other symbolical acts, became
sufficient. When all this passed away, and the creation and
transfer of estates in land by a written instrument, called the
act or deed of the party, became the usual mode, the instrument was at first delivered on the land in lieu of livery of
seisin. Shepherd's Touchstone, 54, Co. Litt. 266 b, Washburn, Real Property, book 3, 308. Finally, any delivery of
the deed, or any act which the party intended to stand for
such delivery, became effectual to pass the title. Church v.
Gilman, 15 Wend. (N. Y ) 656, Butler v Baker, 3 Co. 25 b,
WVarren v Swelt, 31 N. H. 332, H1atch v. Hatch, 9 Mass. 307
But in regard to the transfer of title by matter of record,
whether this record were a judgment or decree in a court
of justice, as fines and recoveries, or the record made in the
proper office (generally in the Court of Chancery by the Lord
Chancellor) of the king s grant, called enrolment, no livery of
seisin was necessary, nor any delivery of the document sealed
with the king's seal, for when this seal was affixed to the
instrument and the enrolment of it was made, no higher evidence could be had, nor was any other evidence necessary
of this act or deed of the king Hence, Mr. Cruise, m his
"The
Digest of the English Law of Real Property, says
king s letters-patent need no delivery, nor his patents under
the great seal of the Duchy of Lancaster, for they are sufficiently authenticated and completed by the annexing of the
respective seals to them." Title xxxiv. sect. 1, par. 3.

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. SCHURZ.

In llarbury v Madison, to which we have already referred,
the court, likening the commission of the justice of the peace,
which was signed and sealed by the President and left in
the hands of the Secretary of State, to a patent for lands, uses
this language "By the act passed in 1796, authorizing the
sale of lands above the mouth of the Kentucky River (vol. iii.
p. 229), the purchaser, on paying his purchase-money, becomes
completely entitled to the property purchased, and on producing to the Secretary of State the receipt of the Treasurer, upon
a certificate required by the law, tle President of the United
States is authorized to grant him a patent. It is further
enacted that all patents shall be countersigned by the Secretary of State and recorded in his office. If the Secretary of
State should choose to withhold this patent, or the patent being
lost should refuse a copy of it, can it be imagined that the
law furnishes to the injured party no remedy 9 It is not believed that any person whatever would attempt to maintain such
a proposition."
In another part of the opinion it is said "In all cases of
letters-patent, certain solemnities are required by law, which
solemnities are the evideftces of the validity of the instrument.
A formal delivery to the person is not among them. In cases
of commissions, the sign-manual of the President and the seal
of the United States are those solemnities."
The same principle is found in the opinion of the court, delivered by Mr. Justice Story, in Green v. Liter, 8 Cranch, 229.
Many decisions of State courts of the highest character to
the same effect are cited in the brief of counsel for the relator
in this case, among which may be mentioned Ex parte Kuhtman, 3 Rich. (S. C.) Ch. 257, Donner v Palmer, 31 Cal. 500.
The subject is very fully and ably discussed by Mr. Justice
Field in the case of Leroy v Jamison, 8 Sawyer, 369.
It is also said that there was no acceptance of this patent by
the grantee, and for that reason it is ineffectual to convey title.
It is not necessary to enter into much discussion on this subject, because the acceptance of a.deed may be presumed under
circumstances far short of what was admitted to exist in this
case.
The doctrine on this point is well stated by Attorney-General

UNITED

STATES V. SCHURZ.

[Sup. t

Crittenden, in the case of Pierre Mutelle, in 1841, as found
in 3 Op. Att.-Gen. 654, which was a case like the present, in
regard to the duty of the Secretary to deliver the patent then
lying in the office.
"Mily opinion," said lie, "is that the title to the land did pass
to Perre .Jlutelle at the date of the patent to him, though that
patent still remains in the land-office without any actual tradition of it to any one. The patent was issued by authority
and direction of law, and upon general principles, where the
patentee does not expressly dissent, his assent and acceptance
are to be presumed from the beneficial nature of the grant.
But it is hardly necessary to resort to such presumptions,
because, in this and in all such cases, the acts required to be
done by the claimant, and actually done by him in the preparation of his claim for patenting, are equivalent to a positive
demand of the patent and amount to an acceptance of it. The
patent, in the meaning of the act referred to, is granted to
the patentee from its date, though he may never actually see
or receive it, and is valid and effectual to pass the title to the
land.
" All legal iuniments of title belong to him who owns the
land,
but as the patent is a recorded evidence of title,
always accessible, no material prejudice can result to the true
owner from a stranger getting possession of it."
The long pursuit of this claim by McBride, his repeated demand for the patent after it had been perfected, and his persistent effort to obtain possession of it, are ample proof of his

acceptance of the grant of which it is the evidence.
It is argued with much plausibility that the relator was not
entitled to the land by the laws of the United States, because
it was not subject to homestead entry, and that the patent is,
therefore, void, and the law will not require the Secretary to
do a vain thing by delivering it, which may at the same time

embarrass the rights of others in regard to the same land.
We are not prepared to say that if the patent is absolutely
void, so that no right could possibly accrue to the plaintiff
under it, the suggestion would not be a sound one.
But the distinction between a void and a voidable instrument,
though sometimes a very nice one, is still a well-recogmzed dis-

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. SCHURZ.

401

tinction on which valuable rights often depend. And the case
before us is one to which we think it is clearly applicable. To
the officers of the Land Department, among whom we include
the Secretary of the Interior, is confided, as we have already
said, the administration of the laws concerning the sale of the
public domain. The land in the present case had been surveyed, and, under their control, the land in that District generally had been opened to pre.-emption, homestead entry, and
sale. The question whether any particular tract, belonging to
the government, was open to sale, pre-emption, or homestead
right, is in every instance a question of law as'applied to the
facts for the determination of those officers. Their decision
of such question and of conflicting claims to the same land. by
different parties is judicial in its character.
It is clear that the right and the duty of deciding all such
questions belong to those officers, and the statutes have provided for original and appellate hearings in that department
before the successive officers of higher grade up to the Secretary They have, therefore, jurisdiction of such cases, and
provision is made for the correction of errors in the exercise
of that jurisdiction. When their decision of such a question
is finally made and recorded in the shape of the patent, how
can it be said that the instrument is absolutely void for such
errors as ihese 2 If a patent should issue for land in the
State of Massachusetts, where the government never had any,
it would be absolutely void. If it should issue for land once
owned by the government, but long before sold and conveyed
by patent to another who held possession, it might be held
void in a court of law on the production of the senior patent.
But such is not the case before us. Here the question is
whether this land had been withdrawn from the control of the
Land Department by certain acts of other persons, which include it within the limits of an incorporated town. The whole
question is one of disputed law and disputed facts. It was a
question for the land-offioers to consider and decide before
they determined to issue McBride's patent. It was within
their jurisdiction to do so. If they decided erroneously, the
patent may be voidable, but not absolutely void.
The mode of avoiding it, if voidable, is not by arbitrarily
VOL. X1r.

26

UNITED STATES v. SCHURZ.

[Sup. Ct.

withholding it, but by judicial proceedings to set it aside, or
correct it if only partly wrong. It was within the province
of those officers to sell the land, and to decide to whom and
for what price it should oe sold, and when, in accordance
with their decision, it was sold, the money paid for it, and
the grant carried into effect by a duly executed patent, that
instrument carried with it the title of the United States to the
land.
From the very nature of the functions performed by these
officers, and from the fact that a transfer of the title from the
United States to another owner follows their favorable action,
it must result that at some stage or other of the proceedings
their authority in the matter ceases.
It is equally clear that this period is, at the latest, precisely
when the last act in the series essential to the transfer of title
has been performed. Whenever this takes place, the land has
ceased to be the land of the government, or, to speak in technical language, the legal title has passed from the government,
and the power of these officers to deal with it has also passed
away The fact that the evidence of this transfer of title remains in the possession of the land-officers cannot restore the
title to the United States or defeat that of the grantee, any
more than the burning up of a man's title-deeds destroys his
title.
What is this final act which closes the transaction
In ilfarbwuy v lfadison (supra), this court was of opinion
that when the commission of an officer was signed by the
President and the seal of the United States affixed to it, the
commission was complete, and the officer entitled to its possession could enforce its delivery by the writ of mandamus.
In regard to patents for land, it may be somewhat different,
and it is not necessary in this case to go quite so far.
But we may well consider that in all nations, as far as we
know, where grants of the property of the government or of the
crown are made by written instruments, provision is made for
a record of these instruments in some public government office.
Our experience in regard to Mexicah, Spanish, and French
grants of parts of the public domain purchased by us from
those governments teaches us that such is the uniform law

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. SCHURZ.

of those countries. We have already shown that under the
English law all letters-patent are enrolled, and that this is the
last act in the process of issuing a patent which is essential to
its validity
We are safe m saying that every State of the Union has
similar provisions in reference to its grants of land, and it has
been the effort of most of them to compel public record of all
conveyances of land by individuals or corporations.
The acts of Congress provide for the record of all patents
for land in an office, and in books kept for that purpose. An
officer, called the Recorder, is appointed to make and to keep
these records. He is required to record every patent before it
is issued, and to countersign the instrument to b6 delivered to
the grantee. This, then, is the. final record of the transaction,
-the
legally prescribed act which completes what Blackstone
calls "title by record," and when this is done, the grantee is
invested with that title.
We do not say that there may not be rare cases where all
this has been done, and yet the officer in possession of the
patent be not compellable to deliver it to the grantee. If, for
instance, the secretary whom the President is authorized by
law to appoint to sign his name to the patent should do so
when he has been forbidden by the President, or if, by some
mere clerical mistake, the intention of the officer performing
an essential part in the execution of the patent has been frustrated. It is not necessary to decide on all the hypothetical
cases that could be imagined.
But we are of opinion that when all that we have mentioned
has been consciously and purposely done by each officer engaged
in it, and where these officers have been acting in a matter
within the scope of their duties, the legal title to the land
passes to the grantee, and with it the right to the possession of
the patent.
No further authority to consider the patentee's case remains
in the land-office. No right to consider whether he ought in
equity, or on new information, to have the title or receive the
patent. There remains the duty, simply ministerial, to deliver
duty which, within all the definithe patent to the owner, -a
tions, can be enforced by the writ of mandamus.

UNITED STATES V. SCHURZ.

[Sup. Ct.

It is not always that the ill consequences of a principle should
control a court in decidinig what the established law on a particular subject is, and in the delicate matter of controlling the
action of a high officer of the executive branch of the government, it would certainly not alone be'sufficient to justify judicial interposition. But it may tend to reconcile us to such
action as we feel forced to take, under settled doctrines of the
courts, to see that any other course would lead to irremediable
injustice.
If the relator in this case cannot obtain his patent, he is
wholly without remedy lie cannot sue the United States, in
whom is the title in the absence of the patent, for the United
States can be sued in no other court than the Court of Claims,
and we have decided that that court has no jurisdiction in
such a case. Bonner ,, United States, 9 Wall. lo6. There
is no one else to sue, for the title is either in the relator or
the United States. It may be many years before the, city of
Grantsville, the party now claiming against him, will get a
patent, and it may never do so.
The relator is, therefore, utterly without remedy, if the land
be rightfully his, until le can obtain possession of this evidence
of his title.
On the other hand, when he obtains this possession, if there
be any equitable reason why, as against the government, he
it has been issued without authority of
should not have it, -if
law, or by mistake of facts, or by fraud of the grantee, -the
United States can, by a bill in chancery, have a decree annulling the patent, or possibly a writ of scire faetas. If another
party (as the city of Grantsville) is, for aiy of the reasons
cognizable in a court of equity, entitled, as against the relator,
to have the title which the patent' conveys to him, a court
of chancery can give similar relief to the city as soon as the
patent comes into his possession, or perhaps before. So that it
is plain that by non-action of the Land Department the legal
rights of the parties may remain indefinitely undecided, and
those of the relator seriously embarrassed or totally defeated,
while the delivery of the patent, under the writ of mandamus,
opens to all the parties the portals of the courts where their
rights can be judicially determined.

Oct. 1880.].

UNITED STATES v. SCHURZ.

We are of opinion that the relator in the case, as presented
to us, is entitled to the possession of the patent which he demanded, and that the writ of mandamus by the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia is the appropriate remedy to enforce
that right. The judgment of that court will be reversed, and
the case remanded with instructions to issue the writ, and it is
So ordered.
MR. CHusF JUSTICE WAiTE, with whom concurred MR.
JUSTICE SwAYNE, dissenting.
I am unable to agree to this judgment. There are very few,
if any, of the general principles of law so well stated in the
opinion of the court, to which I do not give my assent. My
objection is to the application which is made of them to the
facts of this case.
In the stipulation of the parties, it is "conceded that the
case relating to said premises, set out'in the answer of the respondent, had been appealed from the decision of the Commissioner of the General Land-Office to the Secretary of the
Interior, and was pending before the said Secretary at the time
the demand for the patent was made on him, as set forth in
the original petition of relatoi, and for some days thereafter,
and that at the time of such demand, and for some days thereafter, the said patent was, with the papers in said case, as an
exhibit .in said case, in the office of the Secretary of the Interior, and was not in the General Land-Office." This is, as I
think, an admission that the case set out in the answer was
pending, and permits us to -look into the answer and ascertain
what that case was. The facts on which the case rests may
not be admitted, but the existence of the case as set out is.
Looking, then, to the answer, we find that case to hate been
as follows On the 24th of February, 1877, the corporate authorities of the city of Grantsville made an application for the
cancellation of the entry of McBride on the lands in controversy This application was forwarded to the Commissioner
of the General Land-Office for final adjudication and decision
under the law and the established rules and practice of the
department, and it came to a final decision by the Commissioner of the General Land-Office Feb. 7, 1879. On the 8th

UNITED STATES V. SCHURZ.

[Sup. Ct.

of April, 1879, McBride appealed to the Secretary of fhe Interior. In his appeal he claimed, 1st, that the decision of the
commissioner was contrary to the preponderance of the evidence as shown in the record of the case, and, 2d, that the
decision is contrary to the law of the case.
In the original petition for this mandamus it is stated that
the patent was dated Sept. 26,1877 It thus appears distinctly
that when the patent was signed, sealed, and recorded there
was a contest authorized by law pending in the department
between McBride and the corporate authorities of Grantsville
as to who had the better right, .under the laws of Congress,
to the land. It is not pretended that any formal decision was
made by any of the department officers charged with that duty
that the patent should issue. Under these circumstances it
may fairly be inferred, irrespective of the positive averments
to that effect in the answer, that the patent was improvidently
issued through the neglect of some of the clerks having charge
of the business details of the office. In my opinion, it was the
imperative duty of the Commissioner of the Land-Office, when
these facts were brought to his attention, to direct that the
delivery of the patent be withheld.
I agree that, when the right to a patent has become complete, the execution and delivery of the patent itself are the
mere ministerial acts of the officers charged with that duty,
and I further agree that when the right to a patent has been
determined, and the patent has actually been signed, sealed,
countersigned, and recorded, no actual delivery is necessary to
pass the title. When the last formalities of the ]av prescribed
for the due execution of a patent have been complied with, the
grant is complete, if it has before that time been determined
in some appropriate way that the right to the patent exists.
Ordinarily, the due execution of the patent will be evidence of
such a determination. But certainly, as between the United
States and the patentee, such evidence will not be conclusive.
Different questions may arise if the rights of third persons
intervene, but, as between the original parties, until the patent
ought to issue, it may, in my opinion, be recalled at any time
before it gets out of the actual possession of the United States.
In reality, it can convey only what, the officers of the United

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. SCHURZ.

States have the lawful right to grant, and, if it can Convey
nothing, the Secretary of the Interior ought not to be required
by mandamus to do a vain thing.
The contest here was as to the right of McBride to his
homestead entry Confessedly, the land ip within the incorporated city of Grantsville, and his entry was not made at the
land-office until after the town was incorporated, although he
settled on the land long before. It was a question, therefore,
whether, under the circumstances, he had the right to his
entry That question was pending before the department in
the ordinary course of proceedings when the patent was executed. It involved the investigation of facts. Thip is apparent, both from the case, as set forth in the petition, and the
appeal papers which McBride himself filed. That the facts
were disputed, too, is apparent from the statement in the appeal that the decision of the commissioner was contrary to the
preponderance of the evidence. The patent ought not to have
been executed if the entry was unlawful. Whether it was
lawful or not was, at the time, the question at issue between
McBride and the authorities of Grantsville in the contest then
pending in the department. The law makes provision for
such contests, and we have over and over again held that, in
the absence of fraud, the decision of the officers on the facts
is final. Johnson v Towsley, 13 Wall. 72. As the right of
McBride to a patent depended on the result of that contest,
will the execution of the patent have the effect of a judgment
on the facts before the hearing is concluded?
I will not pursue the subject further. Enough has -already
been said to stow the grounds of my dissent. In my opinion,
to direct the Secretary to deliver the patent is to give McBride
execution in his pending suit before judgment rendered, and
may lead to inextricable confusion.
NOTE.-A motion was subsequently made to modify the order that each
party should pay his own costs, and to render judgment against th defendant
for costs.

MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opimon of the court.
Our first impression was that as the defendant was sued in regard to the
manner in which lie had discharged certain official duties as Secretary of the
Interior, in which no intentional wrong was charged or proven against hiM, it

MANUFACTURING Co. v. LADD.

[Sup. Ct.

would be unjust to make him pay the costs of the proceeding out of his own
pocket.
But a careful examination of the authorities leaves us no option but to follow
the rule that the prevailing party shall recover of the unsuccessful one the legal
costs which lie has expended in obtaining his rights.
In Kendall v. U'nited States (12 Pet. 524), the leading case establishing the
right of a citizen to the use of the writ of niandanius to compel a public officer to
perform a duty merely ministerial, tile relator recovered his costs. The duty in
that, as in the present case, was one enjoined upon a cabinet officer, which lie
refused to perform. It is obvious that lie thought lie was right in refusing to
do the act demanded of him, yet this court, as shown by the report of the case,
rendered judgment for costs against him.
In United States y. Boutwell (17 Wall. 604), which was the case of a writ of
niendanius against the defendant as Secretary of the Treasury, and which the
court held to be abated by his retirement from office, it was said. "It is the
personal default of the defendant that warrants the impetration of the writ, and
if a peremptory writ of mandaius be awarded, the costs inust fall upon 'the
defendant." And it is argued that as it would be unjust to make the successor
in office of the delinquent secretary pay the cost of defending the Qction of his
predecessor, the writ must of necessity abate.
We cannot, in the face of these cases, refuse the otder for costs, however
much we might wish it were otherwise. There may be a contingent or other
fund of the department out of which they can be paid. If there is none, Congress may provide for it or enact generally that when the officers of the government are sued with reference to the manner in which they have performed or
failed to perform their official duties, they as in revenue seizures and similar
cases, shall be relieved from the expense of the suit if they have acted with good
motives and upon reasonable grounds.
The relator must have judgment for his costs.

MANUFACTURING

COM3PANY v. LADD.

1. Where a bill was filed charging an infringement of reissued letters-patent
No. 5154, dated Nov. 19, 1872, which was denied by the answer, the court,
in view of the state of the art at the date of the invention for which the
original letters were granted to Asa M. Swain, May 11, 1860, for improvements in water-wheels, construed the claims of the reissued letters in ac
cordance with the distinct limitation of that invention in the original letters
to a wheel of specific construction and form with its associated apparatus,
and finding that there-was no infringement of the claims thus construed
dismissed the bill. Held, that such a construction gave the complainant no
just ground of exception.
2. The evidence examined, and the result of a comparison of the reissued letters,
with the original letters, including the drawings and model submitted with
the application for them, stated.
3. A reissue cai only be granted for the same invention which was originally
patented.

