SWIFT V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

SWIFT V. SM3ITH.

1. A party who, before its maturity and for a valuable consideration, purchases
mercantile paper from the apparent owner thereof acquires a right thereto
which can only be defeated by proof of bad faith or of actual notice of
such facts as inpeach the validity of the transaction.
2. A., to secure the pavment of his note to B., executed to C. a deed of trust of
land of even date therewith, which was duly recorded. A. afterwards conveyed the land to D., and it became the property of C. through sundry
mesne conveyances duly recorded, each of which, including that to C.,
recited that the land was subject to the deed of trust. C. then, to secure
the payment of certain bonds, made a deed of trust of the land, wich was
duly recorded, and suosequently there was filed for record an mstrumen
exebuted by him, purporting to release to his grantor "all the right, title,
interest, claim, and demand" which lie, 0., had acquired by virtue of the
trust-deed executed to him by A. to secure the note. The release did not
acknowledge the payment of the note. C. thereafter made another deed of
trust. E. was, long prior to the execution of the conveyances, except the
deed of trust and that from A. to D., the lawful holder of A.'s note, it haying for a valuable consideration been duly assigned to him before its maturity Held, that E. was entitled to the lien created by A.'s deed of trust.
3. The court adheres to the rule announced in Brine v. Insurance Company (96
U. S. 627), touching the statutory right of redeeming mortgaged lands in
Illinois after a judicial sale under a decree of foreclosure of a mortgage or
deed of trust.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Ir William C. Goudy for the appellants.
11r William T. Burgess and Ar Van H. Higgns, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellants complain of the decree of the Circuit Court
because it adjudged that the complainant, Janet Smith, as administratrix of David Smith, deceased, had a lien on the lots
described in the bill, by virtue of the deed of trust purporting
to have been made by George N. Williams to Obadiah Jackson on the first day of October, 1868, and because it adjudged
that lien to be prior to the lien in favor of Joseph Swift and
Edwin Swift, and that in favor of Elizabeth Carroll and Ellen
Carroll. There are other objections to the decree, but the two
mentioned are the most inportant, for they strike at all the
relief sought by the complainant's bill.

Oct. 1880.]

SWIFT V. SMITH.

Both the defendants below (now appellants) and the complainant claim under Charles C. Waite, who, it is agreed, was
the owner of the lots on the first day of October, 1868. On
that day Charles C. Waite made his deed of the lots to one
George N. Williams, which was duly recorded on the twentyfourth day of the same month. To secure the payment of part
of the purchase-money, Williams gave two promissory notes,
both dated Oct. 1, 1868, payable to the order of Charles C.
Waite, - one for $6,000, payable in one year from its date, and
the other for $30,000, payable four years after its date, with
interest at the rate of eight per cent, payable semi-annually
On the same day (October 1) Williams made and delivered
his deed of trust of the lots, sold to him by Charles C. Waite,
to Obadiah Jackson, to secure payment according to the tenor
of the promissory notes he had given. This deed was duly
acknowledged and recorded concurrently with Waite's deed to
him. In effecting the sale from Waite to Williams, and in
taking the notes and security for the payment of the purchasemoney, Jackson was the attorney and agent for the vendor, and
during some years thereafter the interest on the $30,000 note
appears to have-been paid through him. The $6,000 note was
paid at its maturity The other note came into the hands of
Waite, the vendor, then living in New York, and he soon afterwards transferred and indorsed it to the order of his brother,
Silas M. Waite, who subsequently, and before it fell due, indorsed it generally in blank to Obadiah Jackson. Thus Jackson became clothed with apparent ownership of the note, and
with apparent power to transfer it by his indorsement.
On the eighteenth day of April, 1871, Jackson borrowed
from David Smith, the complainant's intestate, the sum of
$31,500, giving his promissory note therefor, and to secure the
payment of his note he indorsed and delivered to Smith the
Williams note for $30,000 as a collateral. This was nearly a
year and a half before its maturity
At the time when the
note was thus indorsed to Smith there were entries upon its
back of payments of interest upon it up to May 17, 1871.
These entries purported to be acknowledgments of "S. M.
Waite by 0 Jackson." There was also a regular chain of indorsements by Charles C. Waite, the payee, to Silas M. Waite

SWIFT v. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

or order, by Silas M. Waite to Obadiah Jackson or order, followed by an indorsement by Obadiah Jackson in blank. There
was also on the margin of the note the following " This note
secured by trust-deed of even date herewith, duly stamped."
Thus far the facts appear without any real controversy, and
unless there is something in the case to qualify them, they unquestionably establish that on the 18th of April, 1871, Smith
became the bona fide holder of the $30,000 note for value paid,
and as such entitled to the benefit of the deed of trust given by
Williams to Jackson to secure its payment. Though he took
it only as a collateral security for a loan made to Jackson at the
time, he was entitled to the protection of a purchaser for value,
without notice of anything to impeach his right.
Conceding, what appears to be more than probable, that
Jackson was not, in fact, the owner of the note when he transferred it to Smith, that he simply held it as agent or attorney
of S. M. Waite for collection, and that in transferring it to
Smith he perpetrated a fraud upon the true owner, it is still
certain that he was clothed by Waite with power to transfer
the ownership as he did. Waite's indorsement of the note to
him gave him that power, and, though its exercise was a fraud,
if Smith advanced his money in good faith, relying upon Jackson's apparent ownership, he was justified in so doing, and S.
M. Waite, who enabled Jackson to negotiate the note, thereby
lost his title. He was bound by Jackson's act.
There is nothing in the case to show that Smith's purchase
was not in good faith. There was nothing upon the note, nor
anything in the indorsement thereon, to notify him that it did
not belong to Jackson, both legally and equitably It was
mercantile paper, and not due. One who purchases such
paper from another, who is apparently the owner, giving a
consideration for it, obtains a good title, though he may know
facts and circumstances that cause him to suspect, or would
cause one of ordinary prudence to suspect, that the person from
whom he obtained it had no interest in it, or authority to use
it for his own benefit, and though by ordinary diligence he
could have ascertained those facts. Goodman v Simonds, 20
How 343. He can lose his right only by actual notice or bad
faith. It is true that if the bill or note be so marked on its

Oct. 1880.]

SWIFT v. SMITH.

face as to show that it belongs to some other person than the
one who offers to negotiate it, the purchaser will be presumed
to have knowledge of the true owner, and his purchase will
not be held to be bona fide. Fowler v Brantly, 14 Pet. 318.
Nothing of this kind existed ii the present case. Everything
upon the note tended to show that it belonged absolutely to
Jackson when Smith bought it. And we fail to discover anything ii the entries of interest payments, or in any other circumstances, that should have aroused even suspicion to the
contrary
We are unable, therefore, to comprehend how it can be maintamed, as the appellants contend, that the note did not belong
to the complainant, but -belonged to Silas M. Waite. Whatever may have been the fact before its indorsement to David
Smith, and even after its indorsement to Jackson, Waite was
estopped from asserting any claim to it by its transfer to
Smith. It is true Waite is not a party to this suit. The *decree does not bind him. But there is enough without the
decree to estop him. He was examined as a witness for the
appellants on the 12th of May, 1877 Then, if not before, he
was informed that the 'note had been transferred to Smith,
and that Smith's admirnstratrix was proceeding to collect it.
Plainly, then, it became his duty to assert his claim to it, if any
he then had. He could not innocently lie by without intervention, or any action to vindicate his claim, while she was
proceeding to enforce the trust. His laches, if he had any
right, was inexcusable. But he made no movement in this case,
and, so far as it appears, none elsewhere.
Without further remark upon this part of the case, we think
we have said enough to warrant the conclusion at which we
have arrived, that the complainant's intestate, on the 18th of
April, 1871, became the owner of the note, and thereby entitled to the benefit of the trust declared in the deed of Williams to Jackson.
The appellants, however, contend that no lien was created by
that deed, because, as they assert, Williams was a fictitious
person, or an alias of Jackson, and, therefore, that the pretended
deed was void, since no man can convey to himself. This is a
strange position for the appellants to take. If there was no

SWIFT V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

such person as Williams, then Waite's deed to Williams was a
nullity, for there was no person to take, and, as all the rights
which the appellants assert come from Waite through Williams
(as will appear hereafter), they have no interest in resisting
the demand of the complainant, and are not entitled to be heard
in the case. And so, as all the rights they assert are by virtue of a deed subsequently made by Williams (a deed hereafter
to be noticed), it is not easy to see how they can have any
standing, or, if Williams was but another name for Jackson,
and Waite's deed was made to Jackson under the name of Williams, .then the note, though signed by the name George N.
Williams, was Jackson's note, and the trust-deed signed by the
same name would be construed as a declaration of trust for the
security of the note, equivalent to a covenant to stand selsed to
uses for the holder. But we are of opinion that Williams was
not a myth. Beyond doubt Waite's deed was made to a person calling himself Williams, and made to the same person who
signed the note and signed and acknowledged the deed of trust.
Whether that was his real name or not is immaterial.
-Heappeared before the notary and acknowledged the deed as his.
He was not Jackson, it is clear. The evidence that the witnesses called in 1877 knew no such person as George N Williams, in a city containing several hundred thousand inhabitants, is hardly worthy of respect as proof that no such person
was in Chicago in 1868. The existence of the lien, or of the
trust declared by the deed, is not to b? disproved by such evidence.
Concluding, then, that David Smith, on the 18th of April,
1871, obtained a lien on the lots described in the bill by virtue
of the deed of trust from Williams to Jackson, we come to consider the second leading objection urged against the decree of
the Circuit Court. It is that the court erred in decreeing that
lien to be prior to the liens in favor of the appellants Swift and
Carroll.
To comprehend this assignment ol error, it is necessary to
observe the facts as they appear in the record.
On the fifth day of October, 1868, Williams, who had then
become the purchaser of the lots, and who held them subject
to his deed of trust to Jackson, sold and conveyed them by

Oct. 1880.]

SwIFT v. SMITH.

warranty deed to Mary P Moody for the consideration of
$60,000, subject to the deed of trust to secure the payment
of the $30,000 note which the grantee agreed to assume and
pay as part of the consideration of the purchase. This deed
was recorded Oct. 24, 1868.
On the 17th of May, 1871, Mary P Moody, by warranty
deed, recorded May 25, 1871, conveyed the lots, for the consideration of $45,000, to Charles V Dyer, subject to the trustdeed aforesaid, describing it as given to secure the note for
$30,000, which amount, with interest from date, the grantee
covenanted to pay as part of the consideration.
Afterwards, on the first day of June, 1872, Charles V Dyer
and wife, by deed of that date with warranty, conveyed the
lots to Obadiah Jackson aforesaid, expressly subject "to a
trust-deed given by George N. Williams to Jackson, dated
to secure a certain note on which is due
Oct. 1, 1868,
0,000 and interest." This deed was filed'for record June 18,
1872.
Subsequently Jackson, with his wife, made a deed of trust of
the same property to Norman Perkins to secure the payment
of an indebtedness by two bonds, each for $25,000, given by
Jackson, one to Joseph Swift and the other to Edwin Swift.
This deed was dated June 1, 1872, acknowledged June 29,
1872, and filed for record Aug. 3, 1872.
On the same day, Aug. 3, 1872, there was filed for record
an instrument puporting to be a release by Jackson, to Charles
V Dyer, for the consideration of one dollar, of the right, title,
interest, claim, and demand of him, the said Jackson, which
he had acquired by virtue of the trust-deed given to him by
Williams to secure payment of the $30,000 note. This release
was dated Oct. 2, 1871. It was not acknowledged until Aug.
3, 1872, the day when the deed of trust to Perkins was filed
for record, nor did it acknowledge the payment of the note.
On the thirteenth day of November, 1876 Jackson and wife
made a second deed of trust, conveying the lots with other
property to George Chandler to secure the payment of notes
which he had given to Elizabeth Carroll and Ellen Carroll.
This deed was filed for record oii the next following day
This recital of the conveyances exhibits the fact that the

SWIFT v. SMITH.

[Sup. ot.

lien of the trust-deed to Jackson, given to secure the payment
of the note for .930,000, was long prior in time to the liens of
the Messrs. Swift, and Elizabeth and Ellen Carroll, and it was
certainly in existence on the 18th of April, 1871, when that
note was indorsed to Smith, the complainant's intestate.
But it is earnestly insisted by the appellants that the act of
Jackson in making the release to Dyer protects them against
the Williams deed of trust. That the release was a gross fraud
upon the rights of Smith, the holder of the Williams note, is
plain enough, and we think both the Swifts and the Carrolls
had constructive, if not actual, notice that it was fraudulent.
They were bound to know what was in the line of their title,
that title being upon record. They are presumed to have
known, and they are affected by the.recitals in the deed under
which they assert their rights. The trust-deed to Jackson
informed them of the trust to protect the 830,000 note, and
informed them that when the release was made and put upon
record the note had not matured. The deeds to Mrs. Moody,
to Dyer, and from Dyer to Jackson, all recited the continued
existence of the debt, down to June, 1872, and each grantee,
including Jackson, assumed its payment. The record assured
them that Jackson was the owner of the lots when the release
to Dyer was made, and that Dyer had no interest in the trustdeed to be released. They, therefore, were informed that the
release was substantially a release by Jackson to himself of a
debt which he had assumed to pay Even if his power to
execute the trust confided in him by the trust-deed was not
extinguished by his acquisition of the property, it was evident
that he could not release the lien, while he remained the owner
of the lots, without a gross abuse of his trust. In regard to
Perkins, who was the trustee in Jackson's deed to secure
the Swifts' loans, and who was their attorney to examine the
title before the loans were made and the trust-deed was executed, it appears that he knew there was no release of the trust
for the protection of the Williams note, and required one to
be filed. The release was brought to him by Jackson, unacknowledged. It was, therefore, in Jackson's possession, and,
in fact, Dyer had never seen it. It was dated in 1871, October 2, and Perkins was informed that was not the date when

Oct. 1880.]

SWIFT v.

SMITH.

the instrument was made. Jackson told him, indeed, it was
the date when the debt was paid, but he was not authorized
to rely upon Jackson's assertion, more especially when he had
before him, in Dyer's deed of the lots to Jackson, %heacknowledgment that the note was unpaid on the first day of June,
1872, nine months after the time when Jackson affirmed it had
been paid, and had in view also Jackson's assumption, at that
time, to pay it. The evidence leaves no doubt that the release was not made until August, 1872, when it was put upon
record. Then Jackson, being the owner of the lots subject to
the operation of the Williams deed of trust, was in such a
situation that he could not, without an abuse of his trust, destroy the rights of the holder of the note. It is impossible,
therefore, to maintain that there was not enough on the face
of the recorded title under which the Swifts claim, and in
the facts attending the execution of the release, to make it
their duty to inquire whether the Williams note had been in
fact paid,- enough to apprise them that the holder of that
note could not be postponed or injured by the fraudulent
release.
The other appellants are in no better condition. When the
deed of trust was made to Chandler to secure the debt due to
the Carrolls, the prior trust protecting the Williams note was
on the record in the line of their title. They were affected by
notice of it. And though the subsequent release to Dyer also
appeared upon the record, ,the fact that Dyer had no interest
in the property when the release was acknowledged and recorded, that Jackson was then the owner, that he then held
the lots under a deed from Dyer, declaring the 'property to be
subject to the payment of the 830,000 note, which he assumed
to pay, that the note was not then mature, and that, therefore, the release was practically a release by Jackson to himself, - these facts were all before them when they took their
lien, that is, the trust-deed to Chandler. The Carrolls were
dealing with one who they knew bad been a trustee for the
holder of the Williams note, and who was still such trustee,
unless the trust had been extinguished, or transferred. The
facts by which they were confronted were more than enough
to put them upon inquiry whether the Williams note had been
VOL. X1I.

29

SWIFT V. SMITH.

[Sup. Or.

in fact paid. They revealed a plain abuse of his trust by
Jackson, from which, with the knowledge of it that they must
be presumed to have had, they could derive no advantage. In
the face of it they could not obtain a priority over the earlier
equity held by Smith.
We conclude, therefore, that the Circuit Court correctly
decided that the complainant has a lien on the lots described
in the bill by virtue of the deed of trust purporting to have
been made by George N. Williams to Obadiah Jackson, and
that the lien is prior to the liens held by the Messrs. Swift and
by the Carrolls.
We may add that there is no evidence of such laches as
should postpone the complainant's lien to those of the appellants, or either of them.
It is agreed, however, that in the decree in the Circuit Court
there was an error in calculating the amount due to the complainant. The amount is too large by $554.27
The sum decreed to the complainant should have been $34,101.73.
We think, also, the court erred in not according to the defendants the right of redemption after the sale ordered by the
master, according to the provisions of the statute of the State.
In Brzne v Insurance Company (96 U. S. 627) we held that
the statutory right of redemption after a judicial sale, under a
decree of foreclosure of a mortgage, or deed of trust, is a rule
of property in Illinois, and that it must be accorded in the
Federal courts equally as in those of the State. It may be
admitted that if the sale ordered in this case had been made
by the trustee named in the deed of trust, or by a substitute
under the power which the deed gave him, and made in accordance with its directions, no right of redemption would exist.
But such was not the sale directed. A strict foreclosure was
not decreed. The bill prayed for nothing of the kind. It
prayed for a sale, in default of payment, under the order and
decree of the court, and the court decreed that its master
should make the sale, after giving notice of the time and
place thereof, according to the course of practice of the court,
not according to the provision of the trust-deed. Henry W
Bishop, it is true, was substituted as trustee in place of Jackson, but he was one of the masters of the court, and he was

Oct. 1880.]

PENNSYLVANIA

Co. v. Roy.

ordered to sell as master He was required to make a report
to the court, to pay into court any surplus arising from the
sale, there to abide the court's order. The decree also contemplated a report of the sale'by the master, and a confirmation
of it by the court. The sale, therefore, as ordered, was in all
respects a judicial sale, instead of a sale by the trustee under
the power conferred by the deed. Hence it comes within the
rule declared in Brmne v. Insurance Company, and the right top
redeem should have been preserved in the decree.
For this error, as well as for the mistake in the amount adjudged to be due the complainant, the decree must be reversed.
In all other particulars the decree was correct.
The decree will be reversed, and the record remitted with
instructions to enter a decree in accordance with this opinion,
and it is
So ordered.

PENNS1LVANIA C0MrANY v. Roy.
1. A carrier of passengers for hire is bound to observe the utmost caution, and
is responsible to them for such injuries received in the course of their transportation as might have been avoided or guarded against by his exercise of
extraordinary vigilance, aided by the highest skill.
2. Such caution and vigilance extend to all the appliances and means used by
him in transporting them. He must, therefore, provide cars or vehicles
adequate, that is, sufficiently secure as to strength and other requisites,
for their safe conveyance,, and he is liable in damages if, by reason of
the slightest negligence or fault in that regard, injury results to a passenger.
3. A passenger purchased from a railroad company a ticket over its line, and,
at the same time, from a palace-car company a ticket entitling him to a
berth in one of its sleeping-cars, constituting a part of the train of the railroad company. In the course of transportation le was injured by the
falling of a berth in the sleeping-car in which he was at the time riding.
Held, that for the purposes of the contract with the railroad company for
transportation, and in view of its obligation to use only cars that were
adequate for safe conveyance, the palace-car company, its conductor and
porter, were, in law, the servants and employ6s of the railroad company,
and that the negligence of either of them, as to any matters involving the
safety or security of passengers, was that of the railroad company.
4. In such case, the injured passenger being entitled only to compensatory dam-

