Oct. 1880.]

FINcH v. UNITED STATES.

FiNOcB v.

UNITED STATES.

While the act of July 28, 1868 (15 Stat. 125), was in force, A., the owner of two
distilleries, applied to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for Tice meters
for them, and deposited the price with the collector of the proper district to
be paid to the manufacturer. The latter delivered them and received the
money. In one distillery the meters were not used, and in the other they
A. sued the United States for the money so paid.
never worked properly
Held, that he was not entitled to recover.

from the Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

Hr Nathanel Wilson and Hr Lewts Abraham for the appellants.
The Solicitor-aeneral for the United States.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Court of Claims. The case is
spread over a large surface in the record, but a very condensed
statement of the facts will be sufficient for the purposes of this
opinion.
In the years 1868 and 1869 the appellants were distillers,
and had two distilleries in Pittsburgh, Pa. The distilleries
were designated as 1 and 4. In October, 1868, the appellants
made application, in due form, to the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue for Tice meters for distillery No. 1, and at the same
time deposited with the collector of the district in which the
distilleries were situated the sum of $2,050, the price of the
meters, to be paid over to the manufacturer when the meters
were delivered to them. The meters were delivered, and the
money was paid accordingly
These meters were never used, the distillery having ceased
to run long before any one went to make the attachment necessary to utilize them.
In March, 1869, the appellants made a like application for
such meters for distillery No. 4, and deposited with the collector $2,100 to pay for them. They were delivered to the
distillers in July, 1869, and the $2,100 was thereupon paid to
the manufacturer. These meters never worked properly
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE

FINCH V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Or.

There is no proof that they were tested before they were
shipped from the manufactory, nor that any officer of the Internal Revenue Bureau was detailed to attach them, or to test
them after their attachment, or that their indications were
ever in any wise regarded by the storekeeper in making his
daily reports, or by the assessor in making his monthly computation of the products of the distilleries.
By the act of July 20, 1868, c. 186 (15 Stat. 125), the commissioner, for the prevention and detection of fraud by distillers of spirits, was "authorized to adopt and prescribe for use
such hydrometers, saccharometers, weighing and gauging instruments, or other means for ascertaining the quantity, gravity, and producing capacity of any mash, wort, or beer used, or
to be used, in the production of spirits, and the strength and
quantity of spirits subject to tax," as he might deem proper.
Under these provisions, orders, regulatiohs, and instructions,
covering the subject of the meters in every aspect, were issued
by the commissioner. They compelled the distillers to buy
and pay for Tice meters, as was done in the case in hand, and
left them no choice to do otherwise. One of those regulations
was as follows. "Under the provisions of the law the distiller
is required to furnish and attach meters at his own expense,
and also to furnish all pipes, materials, labor, and facilities
necessary to complete such attachment. The first duty of a
distiller is, of course, to procure a meter. The manufacturer
is not required to furnish the meters on credit, and ought not
to be expected to do so. When he ships a meter to a distiller
in accordance with the application, the manufacturer is entitled. to the pay for it. The law does not require the manufacturer to attach it, but, on the contrary, requires the distiller
to attach at his own expense."
Another specified that "the expenses and transportation and
attachment of meters, and of changes required to be made in
the distillery, are to be paid by the distiller," and "distillers
must furnish all lumber and other materials necessary for the
attachment of the meter, and such workmen and assistants as
may be required." By a circular of June 8, 1871, the commissioner announced substantially that the meters were a failure, and from that time they ceased to be used.

Oct. 1880.]

FINCH V. UNITED STATES.

By the act of June-6, 1872, sect. 12, c. 815 (17 Stat. 239),
all the provisions of the act of 1868 touching meters were
repealed, and the use of meters was thereupon abandoned by
law Upon the passage of this act the commissioner issued a
circular advising distillers that "all meters attached to distilleries may be ,detached," and "that the meters being the
property of the distillers, they will be permitted to dispose of
them as they may desire."
By this suit the appellants seek to recover from the United
States the aggregate of the $2,050 and $2,100 paid by them
for the Tice meters as before mentioned.
The appellants insist that there was an implied warranty by
the United States that the meters they thus bought would be
effectual for the purposes they were designed to accomplish,
and that there being a clear breach of this warranty, the
United States are liable accordingly.
To this there are two answers 1. The meters were solely for the benefit of the United
States. The appellants had no interest in their working well.
If they had any interest in the result, it was in the other
direction.
The sole object of the meters was to prevent or expose
frauds by the distillers. If the meters were effectual for these
purposes, so much the better for the government. If they
were a failure, so much the worse. If the distillers were honest, the success of the meters was to them wholly immaterial.
If dishonest, the failure would have helped to make their
frauds lucrative, while effi6iency might have cut off their
fraudulent profits and subjected them to exposure and punishment. The distillers did not pay out a dollar more because
the meters were a failure, nor would they have paid a dollar
]ess if the tests thus provided had fully answered the expectations of the government.
In either event the pecuniary result to the distillers, if honest
in their business, must have been exactly the same.
The essence of their complaint is that the government found
the means lawfully provided to detect their frauds, if they
committed any, unavailing, and therefore used none. Their
argument implies that, if those means had been effectual and

FINCH V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

had been used, they would have been satisfied, and their claim
could not have arisen.
Both the proposition and the argument seem to us to involve
a palpable solecism. There is nothing in the facts of which
any contract relation, express or implied, between them and
the government, can be predicated.
2. Regulations established pursuant to law made it obligatory upon the distillers to procure the meters, if they continued
to carry on the business. They were required to buy and pay,
and did so. The government neither paid nor agreed to pay
anything. The purchase of the meters was an incident and
burden of the business. The right to engage in the business
was not unqualified. It could only be done when authorized
by the government, in the mode prescribed. No one was compelled to procure that authorization, but whoever elected to do
so took it necessarily cunt onere, and hence has no right to complain of any condition imposed and assented to, or of anything
resulting from it. Certainly no consequence such as that here
in question can constitute a cause of action against the United
States, any more than would any other expenditure or any
other loss arising from the business.
Nor can there be any valid demand against the United
States upon the ground of money paid and expended for their
benefit. The meters were bought and paid for by the appellants. They chose to give the order and pay the money rather
than give up the business. The meters were delivered to them
by the manufacturer. They owned them, and still own them.
The United States never asserted any claim to them. After
their use was finally dispensed with by the government, the distillers had the right, as they still have, to dispose of them
according to their discretion. Upon the passage of the act of
1872 a circular from the commissioner notified them accordingly
Nor is there any foundation for a claim against the United
States for money had and received. It is true, their officer
received the price of the meters from the appellants, but it was
for the manufacturer, and not for the government, and it was
paid over, accordingly, upon the delivery of the meters. The
officer was a mere conduit for passing the money from one

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD CO. v. COUNTY OF HAMBLEN.

273

party to the other. The regulation which prescribed the arrangement was intended to secure certainty and promptitude
of payment to the manufacturer, and corresponding promptitude on his part in the delivery of the meters when ordered.
Not a dollar of the funds in question is, or ever was, in the
national treasury
We concur in the views expressed by the Court of Claims.
Judgment affirmed.

RAILROAD Co

ANIr
Y v. COUNTY OF HAMBLEN.

Where, under a decree to enforce a statutory lien retained by the State upon
the property, real and personal, stock, and'franchises of a railroad company,
the property and franchises were sold,- Held, that the property was thereafter subject to taxation under the laws of the State, as immunity therefrom,
if possessed by the company, did not pass to the purchaser.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
This was an action brought by the East, Tennessee, Virginia, and Georgia Railroad Company, against the County of
Uamblen, Tennessee. The question at issue was as to the liability of the company to pay taxes on the assessed value of
that portion of its road which lies in that county
The Cincinnati, Cumberland Gap, and Charleston Railroad
Company was chartered by an act of the General Assembly of
Tennessee, approved Nov 18,1853, the eighth section of which
provides, "That said company shall be, and they are hereby,
vested with all the rights, powers, and privileges, and subject
to all the restrictions and liabilities, of the Nashville and Louisville Railroad Company, except where otherwise provided for
in this charter."
A charter was granted to the latter company Feb. 9, 1840,
the fortieth section of which provides, "That the capital stock in said company, the dividends thereon,
and the roads and fixtures, depots, workshops, warehouses, and vehicles of transportation belonging to the company, shall be for ever
exempt from the taxation in each and every of the said States of
Tennessee and Kentucky, and it shall not be lawful for either of
voL. xii.
18
ERROR

