PAGE v. BURNSTINE.

[Sup. Ot.

PAGE v. BUINSTINE.
1. Sect. 858 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, which declares "that
in actions by or against executors, administrators, or guardians, in which
judgment may be rendered for or against tiem, neither party shall be
allowed to testify against the other as to any transaction with, or statement
by the testator, intestate, or ward, unless called to testify thereto by the
opposite party or required to testify thereto by the court," applies to the
courts of the District of Columbia as fully as to the Circuit and District
Courts of the United States.
2. A. assigned to the amount of a certain loan his interest in a policy of insurance upon his life to B., his creditor. The latter agreed in writing to make
such a settlement with A.'s representatives as the case may require, should
lie, in the event of A.'ยง death before the payment of the money, receive
from the insurance company the amount due on the policy. Other similar
assignments were from time to time made. The last assignment imports an
absolute transfer to B. of all A.'s right, title, and interest in the policy and
to the payments previously made therefor, and all benefit and advantage to
be derived therefrom. Upon consideration of the evidence, - Hdld, that the
assignment must be construed as appointing B., upon the death of A., to
receive from the company such sum as would tien be due on the policy
and after reimbursing himself to the extent of his loans to A., to pay the
balance to the persons entitled thereto.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr William T Mattzngly, for the appellant.
ATr Enoch Totten, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Supreme Court.of the

District of Columbia, dismissing a bill, filed by the personal
representative of Robert C. Page, for the purpose of securing
for the estate of the decedent the benefit of a policy upon his

life for $3,000, issued Nov 22, 1866, by the American Life
Insurance Company of Philadelphia. The bill conceded that
the defendant Burnstine had an interest in the policy to the
extent of any loans of money by him to the assured, and prayed
an account for the ascertainment of such sums. The defendant resisted the relief asked, upon the ground that, at the death
of the assured, he was the absolute owner, by assignment, of

the policy, and, as such, entitled to receive, to his own use, the

Oct. 1880.]

PAGE V. BURNSTINE.

entire sum which might be realized thereon. The amount due
on the policy, $2,676.33, was paid by the company into court,
to abide the result of this suit.
Among the depositions taken in the case was that of Burnstine. He testified in reference to the alleged loans by him to
Page and the several assignments which he claims were executed to him by the assured.
The preliminary question for our consideration is whether
Burnstine, on his own motion, can testify as a witness in the
cause. The contention of the appellant is, that no party to an
action, by or against a personal representative, can testify against
his adversary as to any transaction with, or statement by, the
deceased, unless called to testify thereto by the opposite party,
or required to testify thereto by the court. Rev Stat., sect.
858. This rule, it is claimed, applies to the courts of the District
of Columbia as fully as to the Circuit and District Courts of
the United States. The contention of the appellee is, that his
competency is to be determined by sects. 876 and 877 of the
Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia. These
positions require careful consideration, and it is essential to a
clear understanding of the question, thus presented, to ascertain the history of the several provisions now incorporated as
well in the Revised Statutes of the United States as in the
Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia, upon
the subject of the competency of witnesses in courts of justice.
To the third section of an act, approved July 2, 1864, making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the government
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1865, a proviso is annexed,
"that in the courts of the United States there shall be no
exclusion of any witness on account of color, nor in civil actions,
because he is a party to, or interested in, the issue tried."
13 Stat. 351.
An act, approved on the. same day, July 2, 1864, entitled
"An Act relating to the law of evidence in the District of
Columbia," provides, "that on the trial of any issue joined, or
of any matter or question, or on any inquiry arising in any
suit, action, or other proceeding in any court of justice in the
District'of Columbia, or before any person having-by law, or
"b consent of parties, authority to hear, receive, and examine

PAGE v. BURNSTINE.

[Sup. 0t.

evidence within said District, the parties thereto, and the
persons in whose behalf any such action or other proceeding
may be brought or defended, and any and all persons interested in the same, shall, except as hereinafter excepted, be
competent and compellable to give evidence, either viva voce or
by deposition, according to the practice of the court, on behalf
of either or any of the parties to the said action or other'proceeding Provided, that nothing herein contained shall render
any person who is charged with any offence in any criminal
proceeding competent or compellable to give evidence for or
against himself or herself, or shall render any person compellable to answer any question tending to crimiate himself or
herself, or shall inany criminal proceeding render any husband
competent or compellable to give evidence for or against his
wife, or any wife competent or compellable to give evidence
for or against her husband, or in any proceeding instituted in
consequence of adultery, nor shall any husband be compellable
to disclose any communication made to him by his wife during
the marriage, nor shall any wife be compellable to disclose
any communication made to her by her husband during the
marriage." 13 Stat. 374.
On the 3d of March, 1865, Congress passed another act upon
the subject of the competency of witnesses, entitled "An Act
to amend the third section of an act, entitled ' An Act making
appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the government for
the year ending the thirtieth day of June, 1865, and for other
purposes,' so far as the same relates to witnesses in the courts
of the United States." The act declares that said third section
of the appropriation act of July 2, 1864, "be, and the same
hereby is, amended by adding thereto the following proviso
Provided, further, that in actions by or against executors,
administrators, or guardians, in which judgment may be rendered for or against them, neither party shall be allowed to
testify against the other as to any transaction with, or statement by, the testator, intestate, or ward, unless called to testify
thereto by the opposite party, or required to testify thereto
by the court." Id. 533.
There is still another act which has an important bearing
upon the question before us. We allude to that portion of

Oct. 1880.]

PAGE v. BURNSTINE.

sect. 34 of the act of Feb. 21, 1871, creating a government for
the District of Columbia, which declares that "the C9nstitution, and all the laws of the United States which are not
locally inapplicable, shall have the same force and effect within
the said District of Columbia as elsewhere within the United
States." 16 id. 426. This provision was not affected by the
subsequent displacement of the District government organized
under that act.
Thus stood the law up to the date when the two revisions one the Revised Statutes of the United States, and the other
the Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbiawent into operation.
If it be true, as argued, that the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, although organized under and by authority of the United States, and possessing the same powers
and jurisdiction as the circuit courts of the United States
(12 Stat. 763, Rev Stat. Dist. Col., sect. 760), was not intended to be embraced by the proviso to the third section of
the appropriation act of July 2, 1864, and if, as may be further
argued, the act of March 3, 1865, being, in terms, amendatory
only of that section, was not intended to modify the special
act of the latter-date relating to this District, it is, nevertheless, quite clear that, from and after the passage of the act of
Feb. 21, 1871, if not before, the act of March 3, 1865, became
a part of the law of evidence in this District. The legal effect
of the declaration that all the laws of the United States, not
locally inapplicable, should have the same force and effect
within this District as elsewhere within the United States,
was to import into, or add to, the special act of July 2, 1864,
relating to the -law of evidence in the District, the exception,
created by the act of March 3, 1865, to the. general statutory
rule, excluding parties as witnesses. This'is manifestly so,
unless it be that a statute affecting the competency of parties
as witnesses in actions by or against personal representatives
or guardians, in which judgment may be rendered for or against
them, is "locally inapplicable" to this District. But such a
position cannot be maintained consistently with sound reason.
The same considerations of public policy which would require
the enforcement of such a statute, as that of March 3, 1865, in

PAGE v. BURNSTINE.

[Sup. Ct.

the Circuit and District Courts of the United States, without
regard to the laws of the respective States on the same subject,
would suggest its application in the administration of justice
in the courts of this District. Congress no doubt felt that the
general rule permitting parties to testify on their own motion
put the representatives of deceased persons at a great disadvaiitage, if those proceedings against them by suit could, on their
own motion, testify as to transactions with, or statements by,
the decedent. To remedy that evil, the act of March 3, 1865,
was passed, and it should not be held locally inapplicable to
this District, simply because it enlarges the exceptions to the
general rule established by the special act of July 2, 1864.
These views do not at all conflict with the previous decisions
of this court, holding that certain provisions of the General
Statutes of the United States relating to the practice and proceedings in the "courts of the United States", are locally
inapplicable to territorial courts. Those decisions, it will be
seen, proceeded upon the ground, mainly, that the legislatures of
the Territories referred to, in the exercise of power expressly
conferred by Congress, had enacted laws covering the same
subjects as those to which the General Statutes of the United
States referred. It was, therefore, ruled that the territorial
enactments, regulating the practice and proceedings of territorial courts, were not displaced or superseded by general statutes upon the same subject passed by Cbngress in reference to
"courts of the United States."
Clinton v Englebreckt, 13
Wall. 434, Ilornbuckle v. Toombs, 18 id. 648, Good v llartzn, 95 U. S. 90. No such state of case exists here. The reasons assigned for the conclusion reached in those cases have no
application to the question before us.
Such being the law when the Revised Statutes of the United
States and the Revised Statutes relating to the District of
Columbia went into operation (which was on the same day),
we are to inquire whether Congress by those revisions made,
or intended to make, any change in the particular rule of
evidence now under examination. We are of opinion that
no alteration of the previous law was made or intended.
The special act of July 2, 1864, relating to the law of evidence in this District, is reproduced, tpssstmzs verbzs, ii two

Oct. 1880.]

PAGE V. BURNSTINE.

paragraphs, constituting sects. 876 and 877 of the District revision, the act of July 16, 1862 (12 Stat. 588, 589), the third
section of the appropriation act of July 2, 1864, -andthe act of
March 3, 1865, are consolidated into one paragraph, and, without the slightest material change of language, constitute sect.
858 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, and the
provision already quoted from the act of Feb. 21, 1871, is reproduced in sect. 93 of the District revision. If we consulted
alone sects. 876 and 877 of the Revised Statutes relating to
the District, we should, perhaps, be constrained to hold that,
in the courts of the District, parties could, upon their own
motion, testify as well in actions by or against personal representatives as in any other action. But we cannot overlook the
fact that, in the revisions, the language of the previous statutes
have undergone no change whatever. We should not, therefore, permit the mere collocation or rearrangement of the previous statutes in the new revisions, adopted on the same day,
to operate to change the law, and thereby defeat the will of Congress. Rev Stat. Dist. Col., sect. 1296, Rev Stat., sect. 5600.
For these reasons, we are of opinion that Burnstine could not,
on his own motion, testify as to any transaction with, or statement by, the decedent, Page. His deposition as to such transactions and statements must be excluded from consideration.
Upon the merits of the case we waive any consideration of
the question suggested in oral argument, as to whether Burnstine, consistently with public policy,, could acquire by assignment any interest in the insurance upon the life of Page,
beyond such amount as the latter actually owed him at the
time of his death. No such question is raised in the pleadings,
nor was it suggested or considered in the court below We
pass it by for the additional reason that its determination is
unnecessary in the view which the court takes of this case.
The transactions between Page and Burnstme had their
origin, it is conceded, in a loan of money by the latter to the
former. To secure that loan an assignment was made of
Page's interest in the policy to the extent of the sum borrowed.
Each subsequent assignment shows, upon its face, a similar
arrangement, until that of Jan. 7, 1873, was executed. The
latter assignment, by itself, imports an absolute transfer to

PAGE V. BURNSTINE.

[Sup. Ct.

Burnstme of all the right, title, and interest of the assured in
the policy, and to the payments made therefor, and all benefit
and advantage to be derived therefrom. But the circumstances
disclosed in the reaord indicate, with reasonable certainty, that
the real and only object of the execution of the assignment of
Jan. 7, 1873, was to invest Burnstine with the entire control
of the policy, to- the end that, thereafter, the company might
deal directly with him, and, upon the death of the assured,
that he might be invested with full authority to receive the
proceeds of the policy, and apply them in the repayment of
such sum or sums as he had loaned to Page upon the security
of the policy In other words, the last assignment may be
construed as simply appointing Burnstine, upon the death of
the assured, to receive from the company such sum as would
then be due on the policy, and, after reimbursing himself to
the extent of his loans to Page, to pay the balance to the persons entitled thereto. A different construction of that instrument would place Burnstine in the position of being pecuniarily
interested in the death of Page. Unless compelled to do so, we
should not suppose that he had any desire or purpose to speculate upon the life of Page, or to do more than secure the repaymeut of the money actually loaned by him to the assured.
This construction of the assignment of Jan. 7, 1873, is
fortified by other evidence. Cross, the local agent at Washington of the insurance company, drew the assignment. In
his deposition, taken by the defendant, he testifies that Page
admitted, about December, 1871, his inability to keep up the
premiums. Burnstine was advised of these facts. Cross thereupon recommended to him that, in order to save himself, he
should secure an absolute assignment of the policy Nothing
was said by the parties, upon the occasion when the assignment was drawn, as to its consideration. If the intention had
been, upon the part of Page, to make an unconditional sale,
and upon the part of Burnstmne, to make an unconditional purchase, of the policy, something would have been then said indicating such an intention. That portion of the evidence,
which we are at liberty to consider, tends to show that Burnstine acted upon the advice of Cross, and took an absolute assignment, with the object of saving himself, - a result which

Oct. 1880.]

PAGE v. BURNSTINE.

can be accomplished by awarding to him, out of the proceeds of
the policy, such sum as will reimburse him for the loans made
to Page.
This conclusion is strengthened by the language employed
by Burnstine in his receipt of Oct. 2, 1868. In that paper, he
acknowledges the receipt from Page of six orders, for $50
each, upon -the disbursing clerk in the Post Office Department,
and"agrees that in the event Page dies before the orders are
paid, and he, Burnstine, should receive from the insurance
company the whole or a part of the amount due on the policy,
he "would make such a settlement with his [Page's] representatives as the case may require."
This obligation of Burnstine was not, in terms, withdrawn
or cancelled in any of the assignments thereafter executed, and
the receipt of Oct. 2, 1868, should not, therefore, be overlooked- in ascertaining the real purpose the parties had in the
assignment of Jan. 7, 1873. Ouroconclusion is still further
strengthened by the language in one of the conditions inserted
in the policy (of which, it must be assumed, the parties were
aware), to the effect that, "in case of the assignments of a
policy, whether as security or otherwise, satisfactory proofs of
the assignee's interest in the insured life must be furnished
with the proofs of death." If the company, or Burnstine,
understood that the latter, by the assignment of Jan. 7, 1873,
became entitled to the whole sum due on the policy at the
death of the assured, without reference to the amount Burnstine-had actually paid out, it would have been an idle ceremony for the latter to have furnished proofs of his interest in
the assured life.
The decree must be reversed, and the cause remanded with
dii'ections that an account be taken, as well of the sums actually loaned or paid by Burnstine to Page upon the policy as
security for its repayment, as of all sums paid by him for the
purpose of keeping the policy in force, and for such decree as
may be in conformity to this opinion, and it is
So ordered.
MR. JusTIcE BRADLEY.

I dissent .from so much of the

opinion in this case as holds that the act of Congress relating

672

HARTMAN v. GREENHOW.

[Sup. Ct.

to the admission of parties to testify in the courts of the United
States applies to the courts of the District of Columbia. The
act relating to that subject in reference to judicial proceedings
in the District covers the whole subject, and excludes the operation of any general law unless the latter is made specially applicable. The practice of admitting colored persons to testify
prevailed in the District courts from the organization of the
present Supreme Court of the District, and did not need the
aid of the general statute. The admission of parties to testify
in the courts of the District was provided for in a distinct and
separate statute relating to the District alone.
I concur in the judgment of the court notwithstanding the
evidence of the defendant.

HARTMAN

v.

GREENHOW

1. The judgment in a proceeding for a inandamus is subject.to review on the
same conditions as that in any other action.
2. A final judgment or decree in any suit in the highest court of a State in
which a decision in the suit could be had, may -in the class of cases provided for in sect. 709, Rev Stat., be re-examined here upon writ of error,
although it was rendered upon an equal division of opinion among the
judges. It is immaterial whether that court, in rendering it, was exercising
original or appellate jurisdiction.
3. In the adjustment of her debt by the State of Virginia, her bonds, payable
to order or bearer, with coupons annexed to them payable to bearer, were
issued under the act of March 30, 1871, known as the "Funding Act," which
declares that the coupons "slall be receivable at and after maturity for
all taxes, debts, dues, and demands due the State," and that this shall be
expressed on their face. Where, therefore, a creditor took, as in that act
provided, such bonds for two-tlurds of the amount of the old bonds lie
surrendered, and a certificate for the balance, a contract was consummated between the State and the holder of the bonds and the holder of
the coupons, from which, without their consent, she could not be released.
4. A subsequent enactment requiring the tax on the bonds issued under that
act to be deducted from the coupons originally attached to them, when tendered in payment of taxes or other dues to the State, cannot be applied to
coupons separated from the bonds, and held by a different owner, without
impairing the contract. Such an owner is therefore entitled to a viandamus
to compel the proper officer to receive for their full amount the coupons
so tendered.

