AUFFmi'oRDT V. BASIN.

[Sup. Ot.

and that he made the desired change. But this change in the
regulations does not affect prior transactions which took place
before they went into effect. These transactions must be governed by the regulations in force at the time. It is of the
utmost consequence to the government, and it is, on the whole,
most beneficial to importers, that the value of foreign moneys
shoild be officially ascertained, and that they should be fixed
by a uniform method or rule.
Judgment affirmed.

AUFFMN'OtRDT V. BASIN.
1. A., with a view of giving preference to B., a creditor, transferred to him, Nov.
15, 1873, certain securities. B. accepted them with knowledge that A. was
insolvent. Proceddings in bankruptcy were instituted against A. Feb. 7
1874, and he was declared to be a bankrupt. His assignee brought suit in
June, 1875, against B. for the value of the securities. Held, that he was
entitled to recover.
2. The tenth section of the act of June 22, 1874 (18 Stat., part 3, 178), whereby
in cases of involuntary or compulsory bankruptcy, the period of four
months mentioned in sect. 35 of the Bankrupt Act of March 2, 1867 (14
id. 534), was changed to two months, did not take effect until two months
after its passage. It was not intended to destroy previously vested rights
of property or of action, nor was it in the nature of a statute of limitations. It merely declared that certain acts thereafter committed, more
than two months prior to the institution of proceedings in bankruptcy,
should be valid.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

.211r Charles P. Da Costa for the appellants.
Hr" Hf. E. Davies, 7r., contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

On the fifth day of February, 1874, a petition in bankruptcy
was filed in the proper court against Thomas Morrell and
C. Cuyler Campbell, and they were duly adjudicated bankrupts. Rasin was appointed assignee, and brought the present

Oct. 1880.]

AUFFm'ORDT V. RASIN.

suit, alleging that the defendants, Auffm'ordt & Co., had received by way of preference certain securities from the bankrupts with knowledge of their insolvent condition. A decree
for the value of the securities was rendered in his favor, from
which this appeal was taken.
The testimony leaves no doubt that the transaction was intended as a security for an existing debt, and that the appellants
had reasonable cause to believe that Morrell and Campbell
were insolvents. Indeed, it is very clear that the decree must
be affirmed, unless the period which elapsed between the receipt of the securities and the beginning of the bankruptcy
proceedings was, under the bankrupt law, sufficient to protect
the appellants.
The securities were received on the 15th of November, 1873.
The period fixed by the act then in force was four months.
As the petition in bankruptcy was filed Feb. 5, 1874, the lapse
of time is clearly no defence under that act. But Congress,
on the twenty-second day of June, 1874, passed an amendatory
act, in which is found this clause "That in cases of involuntary or compulsory bankruptcy the period of four months
mentioned in section 35 of the act to which this is an amendment, is hereby changed to two months, but this provision
shall not take effect until two months after the passage of
this act."
This suit was commenced May 11, 1875, and in the answer
of defendants the lapse of two months from the receipt of the
securities to the filing of the petition in bankruptcy is pleaded.
There is, however, no allegation in the answer or in the bill,
nor do we find any record evidence that the petition was filed
by creditors, or anything to show whether it was a case of
voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy
The case, however, has been argued by counsel on both sides
as if it were the latter, and we will so treat it. This raises
the question whether the law as it stood"before the amendment
of 1874, or the time prescribed in that amendment, governs
the rights of the parties in this suit.
It is to be observed that the full period of four months from
the receipt of the securities had passed -indeed,
more than
six months had passed-before the enactment of this amend-

AUFFMi'ORDT V. RASIN.

[Sup. Ct.

ment, and the bankruptcy proceeding had been initiated within
that period and the assignee appointed. The rights of the
parties were therefore fixed before the new law was passed.
The assignee had a vested right to the securities, or to their
value. The legal obligation to return them or to pay him
their value had been incurred by the defendants. To hold
that Congress intended by this amendatory statute to take
away that right of action, is to hold that it intended by a
retrospective statute to destroy a vested right of property or an
existing right of action. If it be conceded that Congress could
do this, the principle is too well established to need the citation
of authorities, that no law will be construed to act retrospectively unless its language imperatively requires such a construction.
We think the clause in the act of 1874 under
consideration not only does not require this, but that such an
inference is fairly negatived by the provision that the clause
shall not take effect until two months after the passage of
the act. The evident purpose of this provision was that in
cases where such a transfer has been made as sect. 35 of the
original act forbids, but had not at the date of the act been
covered by the lapse of four months without the initiation
of proceedings in bankruptcy, that provision should remain the
law of such cases for two months after the act was passed,
though it became immediately the rule as to preferences made
after its passage. Congress thus showed its intent to provide one rule for cases where the lapse of time had not yet
cured the unlawful transfer made before its passage, and the
rule for such transfers made after its passage, leaving by
a. very strong inference cases where the rights of parties
had been fixed under the old law to be governed by its provisions.
There is no question but what Congress could by a statute
have limited the time within which an action should be brought
in the future, so as to have barred the present action, which
was commenced nearly a year after the new law went into
effect. But this statute is not a statute oflimitation of actions,
Dut a declarationt of a period when an act otherwise voidable
shall be held to be valid, and we see no reason to believe that
in making a new rule on that subject Congress intended to

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. GOLDBACK.

make it retrospective, for the purpose of destroying rights of
property or rights of action which had become vested before
the passage of the law
-Decree affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. GOLDBACK.
1 A manufacturer to whom, pursuant to sect. 3425 of the Revised Statutes, the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue sells proprietary stamps on credit is not,
in default of payment therefor, accountable for public money and does
not forfeit the commissions to winch he is, under that section, entitled.
2. Where the manufacturer when sued paid into court the amount due upon
the stamps after deducting his commissions, and it was then stipulated
that the case should be submitted, the only poiftt in issue being as to his
right to them,- Held, that the United States was not entitled to judgment
for the costs which accrued after the date of such payment.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Virginia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Solicitor-General for the plaintiff in error.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
MRt. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

Goldback was a manufacturer of friction-matches, and as
such gave bond to the United States, under sect. 8425 of the
Revised Statutes, with the other defendants in error as his
sureties, to pay such amounts as might from time to time be
due from him for proprietary internal revenue stamps supplied
•him on a credit, in accordance with the provisions of that
section. Under the law he was entitled to an allowance on
the aggregate amount supplied him, as discount on the face
value, or commission. Stamps were furnished him from time
to time on the faith of this security, and when this suit was
begun the balance against him, without any allowance for discount or commission, was $3,869, but deducting the commission
the amount due was $3,062.72. Pending the snit he paid in
full this last-named sum, and then, without any formal plead-

