RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

(Sup. Ct;.

be required to make compensation therefor. All those questions will properly come before the court below for determination on the law and the facts when the case goes down.
-Decreeaffirmed.

RAILROAD

COMrPANY v. NATIONAL BANK.

1. The judgment in an action brought by the holder of negotiable paper
against the indorsers, is not a bar to is subsequent action against the
maker, who was not notified of the pendency of the first action.
2. An estoppel by judgment is equally conclusive upon all the parties to the
action and their privies, and may not be invoked or repudiated at the
pleasure of one of them as his interest may require.
3. The transfer by indorsement to a creditor of negotiable paper before
maturity, merely as security for an antecedent debt, although it is without
his express agreement for indulgence, is not an improper use of such paper,
and is as much in the usual course of commercial business as its transfer
in payment of the debt. In neither case is the bona fide holder affected by
equities or defences between prior parties of which he had no notice.
4. The courts of the United States are not controlled by the decisions of State
courts on questions of general commercial law. Swift v. Tyson (16 Pet. 1)
and Oates v. National Bank (100 U. S. 239) reaffirmed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This was an action by The National Bank of the Repub-

lie of New York against The Brooklyn City and Newtown
Railroad Company
The case, as made by an agreed statement of facts, is this:The company, a corporation organized under the laws of

New York, executed, at Brooklyn, in that State, May 9, 1873,
its promissory note for the sum of $5,000, payable four months
after date to the order of William V LeCount, its treasurer,
at the Atlantic State Bank of Brooklyn. It was indorsed in

blank, first by him, and then by Palmer & Co., a firm composed of Thomas Palmer, Jr., and Anson S. Palmer, the former being the president and the latter the financial agent of
the company, and together owning the larger portion of its
stock. It was made for the purpose only of raising money
thereon for the company
Neither LeCount nor Palmer & Co.

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

received any consideration for their respective indorsements.
The note thus indorsed was, with others, placed by the company in the hands of Hutchinson & Ingersoll, a firm of notebrokers in Wall Street, for negotiation and sale.
Prior to the execution of the note Hutchinson & Ingersoll
had frequently borrowed money from the bank. They, however, kept no account, and had no transactions with it, other
than those to which reference will now be made.
In the month of October, 1872, the bank first made them a
call loan at seven per cent interest, of $25,0Q0, on collaterals.
Subsequently, in 1873, it made to them other call loans on collaterals, at the same rate of interest, as follows March 11,
$15,000, March 15, $10,000, April 11, $10,000, May 16,
$10,000; May 20, $20,000, May 23, $10,000, June 4, $15,000,
June 6, $12,000, June 12, $10,000, June 19, $36,000, and
July 11, $10,000. Each of these loans was a separate one,
upon a particular and distirct lot of collaterals. Hutchinson
& Ingersoll were in the habit of borrowing money from various banks and from individuals or firms upon specific lots of
collaterals.
The loan of $36,000 on 19th June, 1873, was upon several
notes as collateral security, among them the above-described
note for $5,000, executed May 9, 1873. All the loans by the
bank, prior to the one of $36,000, had been paid off before
that loan was made.
The loan of $10,000 on 11th July, 1873, was upon the
following notes as collateral security Two notes of Howes,
Hyatt, & Co. for $2,605.98 and $3,540.15, and two of H. L.
Ritch & Co. for $3,320.17 and $2,146.92.
On the 22d of July, 1873, Howes, Hyatt, & Co. having
become insolvent, Hutchinson & Ingersoll executed and delivered to the bank, at its request, antedated to June 19, 1873
(which was the date of the $36,000 loan), a written instrument, whereby they agreed with the bank "that all securities,
bonds, stocks, things in action, or other property or evidences
of property whatsoever, which have been or may at any time
hereafter be deposited or left by us or on our account, with
said bank, whether specifically pledged or not, may be held by
said- bank, and shall be deemed to be and are hereby pledged

RAILROAD Co.

v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

as security for the payment of any and every indebtedness,
liability, or engagement on our part, held by said bank, and
that on the non-payment, when due and payable, of any sum
or sums of money which have been or may hereafter be by
said bank lent, paid, or advanced to or for the account or use
of us, or for which we are or may become in any way liable
or indebted to said bank, the said bank, or its president or
cashier, may immediately thereupon, or at any time thereafter,
and apply the net proceeds of sale to the paysell, &c.,
ment of any sum or sums due and payable from us to said
bank, and hold any surplus of such net proceeds, together
with any and all remaining securities, property or evidences of
property, then held by said bank and not sold, as security for
the payment of any and all other of our then existing and
remaining liabilities and engagements to said bank."
When that writing was executed, no agreement was made to
extend the loan, or to refrain from calling it in.
The bank knew that Hutchinson & Ingersoll were note-brokers, but until Aug. 8, 1873, had no knowledge or information
of the conniection of the Palmers with the railroad company,
or of the circumstances attending the making or indorsement of the note in suit, or of the purpose thereof, or of any
relations, dealings, or communication between Hutchinson &
Ingersoll, and the parties to the note (except that they knew
Hutchinson & Ingersoll to be note-brokers), or that the note
-was anything else than ordinary business paper, or that there
was any question as to the right of said Hutchinson & Ingersoll to pledge or negotiate it. Nor did the railroad company
know or suspect that the firm had parted with or hypothecated
said note until Aug. 15, 1873.
The company, by reason of certain advances made to its use,
by Hutchinson & Ingersoll, became indebted to the latter, on
the 8th of August, 1873, in the sum of $600. On the fifteenth
day of August, 1873, it tendered that sum to the firm, and demanded a return of the $5,000 note. During the same month
it made a like tender to the bank, and demanded the note.
The $36,000 loan was paid in full out of the collaterals given
to secure its payment, as they respectively matured, without
resorting to the note in suit, the first payment of $4,580 being

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

July 22, 1873, and the last payment being April 4, 1874, leaving the $5,000 note in the bank's possession.
Hutchinson & Ingersoll are insolvent. -The collaterals collected exceeded the 836,000 loan by $2,403.61.
On the $10,000 loan of July 11, 1873, there was a balance
due the bank, Nov 21, 1876, of $5,136.68 after exhausting all
collaterals in its possession which had been specially pledged
to secure that loan, and, crediting the amount, with interest
collected, of a certain judgment to be now referred to.
In 1874, the bank sued Palmer & Co., as indorsers upon the
note in suit, in the Supreme Court of New York. The case
was sent to a referee, who rendered judgment in favor of the
bank for $601, which seems to be the amount due from the
railroad company to Hutchinson & Ingersoll. That judgment,
with the costs, was satisfied.
The present action is-by the bank against the railroad'company to recover the amount of the $5,000 note executed by the
latter on the 9th of May, 1878, and placed in the hands of
Hutchinson & Ingersoll for sale for the benefit of the company
It was agreed that, if the company is liable to the bank upon
that note, the amount would be as of Nov 21, 1876, $5,136.68.
The court below gave judgment for the bank, and the company sued out this writ.
Mr William Dorshetmer for the plaintiff in error.
The matter is res udieata, for there was a determination, by
the Supreme Court of New York, upon the same subject-matter in a controversy between the same parties or their privies.
It is true that the defendants there were not the makers of
the note. Although makers and indorsers may have independent interests, yet they, in this instance, are privies. The note
never had any valid inception. The making and indorsing
were alike without consideration. Neither the maker nor the
indorsers could incur any liability on the note, except such as
might arise from the unauthorized action of Hutchinson &
Ingersoll in pledging it to the bank.
The term "' privies" is not confined to persons interested in
real estate (3 Tomlin, Law Dict. 218, 2 Bouv 382), nor is it
true that only the same parties, eo nomme, are bound by a
judgment. Green v Clark, 5 Den. (N Y ) 497, s. 0. 13 Barb.
VOL. XI.

2

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL

BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

(N. Y ) 57, Kent v Hudson River Railroad Co., 22 id. 278,
Taylor v Spader, 48 N. Y 664. The expression "parties " is
not confined to the parties to the record. It includes all those
who have a direct interest in the subject-matter of the suit.
Bates v Stanton, 1 Duer (N. Y.), 87, Bhle v Bingham, 7 Barb.
(N. Y) 494.
Even if the judgment be not construed as res )udicata, in
the strict sense, the bank is estopped from proceeding further
with this action. It selected its own tribunal, abided by the
judgment there rendered, and entered satisfaction of it, after
accepting the money which the court determined to be the
whole amount due upon the note. The claim was extinguished
by that acceptance and satisfaction. Woodworth v Spofford,
2 McLean, 168, Sedam v Williams, 4 id. 51, lfing v Hoare,
13 Mees. & W 449, Farrellv Hibbard, 3 N H. 318.
This case was tried upon similar pleadings, and the same
state of facts as that, -with the single exception of the paper,
signed July 22, 1873, which would not have varied the result
there, and in no way strengthens the case here. It was signed
long after both loans had been made, was without consideration, and no action was taken upon it. The bank did not agree
to extend the loan, nor did it refrauV from calling it in. It
must be conceded that, under the adjudications in New York,
the bank was not in that case entitled to recover more than
the sum awarded, unless it had a lien upon all the securities of
Hutchinson & Ingersoll, which was termed in the decision a
" banker's lien." Its relations with -them were not those of
banker and customer, and such a lien could not, therefore,
attach. They were not depositors or dealers with the plaintiff,
and kept no account there. In the cases where the question
of such a lien has arisen, the party asserting it was a banker
quoad the person from whom the security had been acquired.
In some of them, the lien was claimed under special circumstances, as on a pledge, but no banker's lien can arise, unless
the relation of banker and customer exists. The banker in
England is the general financial agent of the customer. Even
there the lien would not apply to a case like this, though the
parties did actually occupy the legal relation of banker and
customer. Dams v Bowsher, 5 T. R. 488, Brandasv Barnett,

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD Co. v. NATIONAL BANK.

12 C1. & Fin. 787, Jones v Peppercorn,1 John. 430, Bolland
v Bygrave, 1 Ry & M. 271, _in re -EuropeanBank, Agra Bank
Claim, Law Rep. 8 Oh. 41.
Outside of the question as to the asserted specified lien of a
"banker" the plaintiff cannot recover. Ocean Bank v. Scott,
23 N. Y 293, Clarke v. Lawrence, 36 id. 118, il"eBride v
Farmers'Bank, 26 id. 450, s. c. 25 Barb. (N. Y ) 657, Van
.i'amee v Bank of Troy, 8 id. 312, West v Amerzcan Exchange
Bank, 44 id. 175, American Exchange Bank v Corlies, 46 id.
19, Farringtonv Franklin Bank, 24 id. 559, Neponset Bank
v. Leland, 5 Mete. (Mass.) 259, Story, Agency, sect. 381,
Commercial Bank v larmne Bank, 3 Keyes (N. Y ), 337, Bay
v Coddington, 5 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch.54, s. c. '20 Johns. (N. Y)
637
These decisions all affirm this doctrine, and it may be now
considered as the settled law of the State of New York.
The plaintiff relied upon Swift v Tyson, 16 Pet. 1.
1. An examihation of that case will show that the acceptance
sued upon was, with another, transferredin payment of a promissory note, which was given up when they were received. All that
was there decided is, that an innocent third party may acquire
a title to a note if he takes it in payment of a pre-existing debt,
as well as if he makes an immediate advance upon it.
2. But conceding, for the purposes of the argument, that
a party receiving a note as additional security to an existing
claim takes it free from the equities between antecedent parties,
this is not such a case. The note was given as such security for
a loan, which has been since paid. The right of recovery cannot
extend to a subsequent and independent loan made upon different collaterals.
3. The cases in the English books relied upon below were
those of continuing loans or balances. In other words, the
party holding the notes had done, or omitted to do, some act
on the faith thereof.
Here there was no agreement to extend the second loan.
An examination of Swift v Tyson shows -that the point was
taken on the argument that "the acceptance of the bill of exchange by the defendant having been given in New York, the
contract was to be regulated by the laws of that State." The

20

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

reporter says "This question was not brought before the
court by the certificate of division."
In the case at bar the question is clearly presented. Inasmuch as these parties are both residents of New York, and the
contract was made there, and the plaintiff resorted to her tribunals for the assertion of its rights, and obtained a judgment upon which it received payment, and gave satisfaction,
the case should be determined by the lex loci contractus, and
this court, it is submitted, should accept the decisions of the
courts of that State as governing this case.
1" Thomas f. -Rodman, contra.
The doctrine in Swift v Tyson (16 Pet. 1) is explicit and
decisive in favor of the plaintiff. It was reaffirmed and enforced in McCarty v. Roots (21 How 432), and has been
adopted and applied in the State courts. Quinn v Hard,
43 Vt. 375, Russell v Splater, 47 1d. 273, Atkinson v. Brooks,
26 id. 569, .Fisherv. Fisher, 98 Mass. 303, Stoddard v Himball, 6 Cush. (Mass.) 469, Roberts v Hall, 37 Conn. 205, Bank
of Republic v Carrington,5 R. 1. 515, Williams v Little, 11
N. H. 66, Bowman v Millison, 58 Ill. 36, Manning v McClure,
36 id. 490, Payne v Bensley, 8 Cal. 260, Gtovanovich v Citizens' Bank, 26 La. Ann. 15, Smith v Isaacs, 23 id. 454, Allatre
v Hartshorne,21 N. J L. 665, Armour v McMichael, 36 id. 92,
Maitland v Citizens' National Bank of Baltimore, 40 Md. 540,
Robins v Lair, 31 Iowa, 9, Bonaud v Genest, 42 Ga. 639.
If the pledge of June 19, 1873, had not been made, the
plaintiff, organized and doing business as a national banking
association, would have had the right to hold the note in suit
for the deficiency on the second loan. Hutchinson & Ingersoll
were in the habit of borrowing money of the plaintiff on collaterals. A banker has a lien for a general balance (In re
-European Bank, Agra Bank Claim, Law Rep. 8 Ch.41), and
it is not excluded by a special contract, unless the latter be
inconsistent therewith.
The defence of a former recovery is not tenable. The judgment was not rendered in a suit between the same parties, and
there is no privity between maker and indorser to which the
doctrine of estoppel applies. Bigelow, Estoppel, 75. A judgment
against the indorser of a note does not discharge the maker.

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

21

Bussell & BErwzn lanuf Co. v Carpenter,5 Hun (N. Y ), 162,
Pritchardv Hfitchcock, 6 Man. & G. 151.
The plaintiff's claim was not satisfied by the payment of the
judgment against the indorsers for a part of the debt. Part
payment by, and release of, the indorser does not discharge the
maker. Story, Promissory.Notes, sect. 422, note 2, Commercial
Banle v. Cunnvgham, 24 Pick. (Mass.) 270.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The first proposition of the plaintiff in error is that there has
been a final determination by a court of competent jurisdiction,
between the same parties or their privies, upon the same subjectmatter as that here in controversy This contention rests upon
the judgment of the Supreme Court of New York, in the action
instituted by the bank against Palmer & Co., as the indorsers
of the note in suit.
The judgment m the State court clearly constitutes no bar to
the present action. Personal judgments bind only parties and
their privies. The railroad company was not a party to the
separate action against Palmer & Co., nor did it receive notice
from the latter of the pendency of that suit. It was, therefore,
in no manner affected by the judgment. Had the company
received such notice in due time, it would, perhaps, although
not technically a party to the record, have been estopped, at'
least as between it ana its accommodation indorsers, from saying. that the latter were not bound to pay the judgment, if
obtained without fraud or collusion. Being, however, an entire
stranger to the record, it had no opportunity or right, in that
proceeding, to controvert the claim of the bank, to control the
defence, to introduce or cross-examine witnesses, or to prosecute
a writ of error to the j adgment.If, in the action against Palmer & Co., the bank had obtained
judgment for the full amount of the note, and, being unable to
collect it, had sued the railroad company, the latter would not
have been precluded by the judgment in that action, to which
it was not a party, and of the pendency of which it had not been
notified, from asserting any defence it might have against the
note. This being so, it results that the company cannot plead

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

the judgment in the State court as a bar to this action. An
estopp.el, arising out of the judgment of a court of competent
jurisdiction, is equally conclusive upon all the parties to the
action and their privies. It may not be invoked or repudiated
at the pleasure of one of the parties, as his interest may happen
to require.
The liability of the maker and indorsers was not joint, but
several, and, therefore, a judgment in an action against the
indorsers, upon the contract of indorsement, could not bar a
separate action by the bank against the maker, -certainly not,
where the maker was without notice from the indorsers of the
pendency of the action against them.
The next proposition involves the right of the railroad company to show, as against the bank, that the note was executed
and delivered to Iutchinson & Ingersoll for the purpose only
of raising money upon it for the company, and that, consequently, they had no authority to pledge it as collateral security for their own indebtedness to the bank. It will haje been
observed, from the statement of facts, that the note in suit
was among those pledged to the bank as security for the call
loan of $36,000, made June 19, 1873, that Howes, Hyatt, &
'Co., whose notes had been pledged as security for the call loan
of R10,000, made June 19, 1873, having become insolvent,
Hutchinson & Ingersoll, July 22, 1873, at the request of the
bank, executed the writing, dated June 19,'1873, whereby they
pledged all securities, bonds, stocks, things in action, or other
property theretofore deposited with the bank, whether specifically or not, as security for the payment of any and every
indebtedness, liability, or engagement held by the bank, for
which they were, or should become, in any way liable. Although, therefore, the call loan of $36,000 was extinguished,
without resorting to the note in suit, that note, under the
agreement made July 22, 1873, stood pledged as collateral
security, also, for the $10,000 call loan of July 11, 1873.
The bank, we have seen, received the note, before its maturity, indorsed in blank, without any express agreement to give
time, but without notice that it was other than ordinary business paper, or that there was any defence thereto, and in ignorance of the purposes for which it had been executed and

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

delivered to Hutchinson & Ingersoll. Did the bank, under
these circumstances, become a holder for value, and as such
entitled, according to the recognized principles of commercial
law, to be protected against the equities or defences which the
railroad company may have against the other parties to the
note 7
This question was carefully considered, though, perhaps, it
was not absolutely necessary to be determined, in Swzft v Tyson,
16 Pet. 1. After stating that the law respecting negotiable instruments was not the law of a single country ofily, but of the commercial world, the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Story, said
"And we have no hesitation m saying that a pre-existing debt.
does constitute a valuable consideration in the sense of the general rule already stated as applicable to negotiable instruments.
Assuming it to be true (which, however, may well admit of
some doubt from the generality of the language) that the holder
of a negotiable instrument is unaffected with the equities
between antecedent parties, of which he has no notice, only
where he receives it in the usual course of trade and business
for a valuable consideration,, before it becomes due, we are
prepared to say that receiving it in payment of or as security
for a pre-exzsting debt is according to the known usual course
of trade and business. And why, upon principle," continued
the court, "should not a pre-existing debt be deemed such a
valuable consideration 9 It is for the benefit and convenience
of the commercial world to give as wide an extent as practicable
to the credit and circulation of negotiable paper, that it may
pass not only as security for new purchases and advances, made
upon the transfer thereof, but also in payment of and as security for pre-existing debts. The creditor is thereby enabled to
realize or to secure his debt, and thus may safely give a prolonged credit, or forbear from taking any legal steps to enforce
his rights. The debtor, also, has the advantage of. making his
negotiable securities of equivalent value to cash. But establish
the opposite conclusion,.that negotiable paper cannot be applied
m payment of or as security for pre-existing debts, without
letting in all the equities between the original and antecedent
parties, and the value and circulation of such securities must be
essentially diminished, and the debtor driven to th6 embarrass-

RAILROAD

Co.

v. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. CL.

ment of making a sale thereof, often at a ruinous discount, to
some third person, and then by circuity to apply the proceeds
to the payment of his debts. What, indeed, upon such a doctrine would become of that large class of cases where new notes
are given by the same or by other parties, by way of renewal
or security to banks, in lieu of old securities discounted by them
which have arrived at maturity? Probably more than one-half
of all bank transactions in our country, as well as those of other
countries, are of this nature. The doctrine would strike a fatal
blow at all discounts of negotiable securities for pre-existing
debts."
After a review of the English cases, the court proceeded
"They directly establish that a bona fide holder, taking a
negotiable note in payment of or as security for a pre-existing debt, is a holder for a valuable consideration, entitled to
protection against all the equities between the antecedent
parties."
The opinion in that case has been the subject of criticism in
some courts, because it seemed to go beyond the precise point
necessary to be decided, when declaring that the bona fide
holder of a negotiable note, taken as collateral security for an
antecedent debt, was protected against equities existing between
the original or antecedent parties. The brief dissent of Mr.
Justice Catron was solely upon that ground, which renders it
quite certain that the whole court was aware of the extent to
which the opinion carried the doctrines of the commercial law
upon the subject of negotiable instruments transferred or delivered as security for antecedent indebtedness. In the judgment
of this court, as then constituted (Mr. Justice Catron alone
excepted), the holder of a negotiable instrument, received
before maturity, and without notice of any defence thereto, is
unaffected by the equities or defences of antecedent parties,
equally whether the note is taken as collateral security for or
in payment of previous indebtedness. And we understand the
case of 111carty v Boots (21 How 432) to affirm Swvft v
Tyson, upon the point now under consideration. It was there
said "Nor does the fact that the bills were assigned to the
plaintiff as collateral security for a pre-existing debt impair
the plaintiff's right to recover." p. 438. " The delivery of the

Oct..1880.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

bills to the plaintiff as collateral security for a pre-existing
debt, under the decision of Swift v Tyson, was legal." p. 439.
It may be remarked in this connection that the courts holding a different rule have uniformly referred to an opinion of
Chancellor Kent in Bay v Coddington (5 Johns. (N. Y) Ch.
54), reaffirmed in (oddington v Bay, 20 Johns. (N. Y) 637
There is, however, some reason to believe that the views of
that eminent jurist were subsequently modified. In the later
editions of his Commentaries (vol. iii. p. 81, note b), prepared
by himself, reference is made to Stalker v McDonald (6 Hill
(N. Y ), 93), in which the principles asserted in Bay v Coddington were re-examined and maintained in an elaborate opinion by Chancellor Walworth, who took occasion to say that
the opinion in Swift v Tyson was not correct in declaring that
a pre-existing debt was, of itself, and without other circumstances, a sufficient consideration to entitle the bona fide holder,
without notice, to recover on the note, when it might not, as
between the original parties, be valid. But Chancellor Kent
adds " Mr. Justice Story, on Promissory Notes, p. 215,-note 1,
repeats and sustains the decision in Swift v Tyson, and I am
inclined to concur in that decision as the plainer and better
Of course it did not escape his attention that the
doctrine."
court m Swift v Tyson declared the equities of prior parties to
be shut out as well when the note was merely pledged as collateral security for a pre-existing debt, as when transferred in
payment or extinguishment of such debt.
According to thevery general concurrence of judicial authority in this country as well as elsewhere, it may be regarded as
settled in, commercial jurisprudence - there being no statutory
regulations to the contrary - that where negotiable paper is
received in payment of an antecedent debt, or where it is
transferred, by indorsement, as collateral security for a debt
created, or a purchase made, at the time of transfer, or the
transfer is to secure a debt, not due, under an agreement express or to be clearly implied from the circumstances, that the
collection of the principal debt is to be postponed or delayed
until the collateral matured, or where time is agreed to be
given and is actually given upon a.debt overdue, in consideraton of the transfer of negotiable paper as collateral security

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup Ct.

therefor, or where the transferred note takes the place of other
paper previously pledged as collateral security for a debt, either
at the time such debt was contracted or before it became due,
-in
each of these cases the holder who takes the transferred
paper, before its maturity, and without notice, actual or other
wise, of any defence thereto, is held to have received it in due
course of business, and, in the sense of the commercial law,
becomes a holder for value, entitled to enforce payment, without regard to any equity or defence which exists between prior
parties to such paper.
Upon these propositions there seems at this day to be no
substantial conflict of authority
But there is such conflict
where the note is transferred as collateral security merely,
without other circunstances, for a debt previously created.
One of the grounds upon which some courts of high authority
refuse, in such cases, to apply the rule announced in S'wift v
Tyson, is, that transactions of that kind are not in the usual
and ordinary course of commercial dealings. But tins objec
tion is not sustained by the recognized usages of the commercial world, nor, as we think, by sound reason. The transfer
of negotiable paper as security for antecedent debts constitutes
a material and an increasing portion of the commerce of the
country Such transactions have become very common in
financial circles. They have grown out of the necessities of
business, and, in these days of great commercial activity, they
contribute largely to the benefit and convenience both of debtors and creditors. Mr. Parsons, in his treatise on the Law
of Promissory Notes and Bills of Exchange, discusses the general question of the transfer of negotiable paper under three
aspects, - one, where the paper is received as collateral security for antecedent debts. We concur with the author, " that,
when the principles of the law merchant have established
more firmly and unreservedly their control and their protection over the instruments of the merchant, all of these transfers (not affected by peculiar circumstances) will be held to be
regular, and to rest upon a valid consideration." 1 Parsons,
Notes and Bills (2d ed.), 218.
Another ground upon which some courts have declined to
sanction the rule announced in Swift v Tyson is, that upon the

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

transfer of negotiable paper merely as collateral security for an
antecedent debt nothing is surrendered by the indorsee,- that
to perniit the equities between prior parties to prevail deprives
him of no right or advantage enjoyed at the time of transfer,
imposes upon him no additional burdens, and subjects him to
no additional inconveniences.
This may be true in some, but it is not true in most cases,
n or, in our opinion, is it ever true when the note, upon its
delivery to the transferee, is in such form as to make him a
party to the instrument, and impose upon him the duties
which, according to the commercial law, must be discharged
by the holder of negotiable paper in order to fix liability upon
the indorser.
The bank did not take the note in suit as a mere agent to
receive the amount due when it suited the convenience of the
debtor to make payment. It received the note under an obligation'imposed by the commercial law, to present it for payment, and give notice of non-payment, in the mode prescribed
by the settled rules of that law We are of opinion that the
undertaking of the bank to fix the liability of prior parties, by
due presentation for payment and due notice in case of nonpayment, - an undertaking necessarily implied by becoming a
party to the instrument, - was a sufficient consideration to
protect it against equities existing between the other parties,
of which it had no notice. It assumed the tuties and responsibilities of a holder for value, and should have the rights and
privileges pertaining to that position. The correctness of this
rule is apparent in cases like the one now before us. The note
in suit was negotiable in form, and was delivered by the maker
for the purpose of being negotiated. Had it been regularly
discounted by the bank, at any time before maturity, and the
proceeds either placed to the credit of Hutchinson & Ingersoll,
or applied directly to the discharge, pro tanto, of any one of
the call loans previously made to them, it would not be doubted
that the bank would be protected against the equities of prior
parties. Instead of procuring'its formal discount, Hutchinson
& Ingersoll used it to secure the ultimate payment -of their
own debt to the bank. At the time the written agreement of
July 22, 1873, was executed, by which this note, with others,

RAILROAD Co. v. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

was pledged as security for any debt then or thereafter held
against them, the bank had the right to call in the $10,000
loan, that is, to require immediate payment. The securities
upon which that loan rested had become, in part, worthless,
and it is evident that but for the deposit of additional collateral securities the bank would have called in the loan, or
resorted to its rightful legal remedies for the enforcement of
payment. It was, under the circumstances, the duty of the
debtors to make such payment, or to secure the debt. It was
important to them, and was in the usual course of commercial
transactions, to furnish such security If the bank was deceived
as to the real ownership of the paper, or as to the purposes of
its execution and delivery to Hutchinson & Ingersoll, it was
because the railroad company intrusted it to those parties in a
form which indicated that the latter were its rightful holders
and owners, with absolute power to dispose of it for any purpose they saw proper.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the transfer, before maturity, of negotiable paper, as security for an antecedent debt
merely, without other circumstances, if the paper be so indorsed
that the holder becomes a party to the instrument, although
the transfer is without express agreement by the creditor for
indulgence, is not an improper use of such paper, and is as
much in the usual course of commercial business as its transfer in payment of such debt. In either case, the bona fide
holder is unaffected by equities or defences between prior parties, of which lie had no notice. This conclusion is abundantly
sustained by authority A different determination by this court
would, we apprehend, greatly surprise both the legal profession
and the commercial world. See Bigelow's Bills and Notes,
502 et seq., 1 Daniel, Neg. Inst. (2d ed.) c. 25, sects. 820-833,
Story, Promissory Notes, sects. 186, 195 (7th ed.), by Thorndyke, 1 Parsons, Notes and Bills (2d ed.), 218, sect. 4, c. 6,
and Redfield & Bigelow's Leading Cases upon Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes, where the authorities are cited
by the authors.
It is, however, insisted that, by the course of judicial decision in New York, negotiable paper transferred merely as collateral security for an antecedent debt, is subject to the equities

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD Co. v. NATIONAL BANK.

of prior parties existing at the time of transfer, that the bank
being located in New York, and the other parties being citizens of the same State, and the contract having been there
made, this court is bound to accept and follow the decision
of the State court, whether it meets our approval or not. This
contention rests upon the provision of the statute which declares that "the laws of the several States, except where the
Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United States otherwise require or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision in
trials at common law, in the courts of the United States, in
cases where they apply"
It is undoubtedly true that if we should apply to this case
the principles announced in the highest court of the State of
New York, a different conclusion would have been reached
from that already announced. That learned court has held
that the holder of negotiable paper transferred merely as collateral security for an antecedent debt, nothing more, is not a
holder for value, within those rules of commercial law which
protect such paper against the equities of prior parties.
The question here presented is concluded by our former decisions.
We remark, at the outset, that the section of the statute of
the United States already quoted is the same as the thirtyfourth section of the original Judiciary Act.
In Swift v ! yson (supra), the contention was that this court
was obliged to follow the decisions of the State courts in all
cases where they apply But this court said "In order to
maintain the argument, it is essential, therefore, to hold that
the word' laws' in this section" includes within the scope of its
meaning the decisions of the local tribunals. In the ordinary
use of language it will hardly be contended that the decisions of courts constitute laws. They are, at most, only evidence of what the laws are, and are- not of themselves laws.
They are often re-examined, reverseaI, and qualified by the
courts themselves, whenever they are found to be either defective, or ill-founded, or otherwise incorrect. The laws of a State
are more usually understood to mean the rules and enactments
promulgated by the legislative authority thereof, or long-established local customs having the force of laws. In all the var-

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Slip. Ct.

ous cases which have hitherto come before us for decision this
court have uniformly supposed that the true interpretation of
the thirty-fourth section limited its application to State laws
strictly local, that is to say, to the positive statites of the
State, and the construction thereof adopted by the local tribunals, and to rights and titles to things having a permanent
locality, such as the rights and titles to real estate, and other
matters immovable and intra-territorial in their nature and
character. It has never been supposed by us that the section
did apply, or was designed to apply, to questions of a more
general nature, not at all dependent upon local statutes or local
usages of a fixed and permanent operation as, for example, to
the construction of ordinary contracts or other written instruments, and especially to questions of general commercial law,
where the State tribunals are called upon to perform the like
functions as ourselves, that is, to ascertain upon general reasoning and legal analogies what is the true exposition of the
contract or instrument, or what is the lust rule furnished by
the principles of commercial law to govern the case. And we
have not now the slightest difficulty in holding that this seetion, upon its true intendment and construction, is strictly limited to local statutes and local usages of the character before
stated, and does not extend to contracts and other instruments
of a commerial nature, the true interpretation and effect
whereof are to be sought, not in the decisions of the local tribunals, but in the general principles and doctrines of commercial
jurisprudence. Undoubtedly, the decisions of the local tribunals upon such subjects are entitled to and will receive the
most deliberate attention and respect of this court, but they
cannot furnish positive rules, or conclusive authority, by which
our own judgments are to be bound up and governed."
In Carpenter v The Providence Washington Insurance Co.
(16 Pet. 495), decided at the same term with Swift v Tyson, it
was necessary to determine certain questions in the law of insurance. The court said " The questions under our consideration are questions of general commercial law, and depend upon
the construction of a contract of insurance which is by no
means local in its character, or regulated by any local policy or
customs. Whatever respect, therefore, the decisions of State

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL

BANK..

tribunals may have on such a subject, and they certainly are
entitled to great respect, they cannot conclude the jidgment
of this court. On the contrary, we are bound to interpret this
instrument according to our own opinion of its true intent and
objects, aided by all the lights which can .be obtained from.all
external sources whatsoever, and if the result to which we
have arrived differs from these learned State courts, we may
regret it, but it cannot be permitted to alter our judgment."
In Oates v lationalBank (100 U. S. 239), we had before
us the precise question now under consideration. That was an
action by a national bank, located in Alabama, against a citizen
of that State, upon a promissory note there"executed and negotiated. It was contended that the decision of the Supreme
Court of Alabama should be accepted as the law governing the
rights of parties. We, however, held -referring
to some of
our previous decisions-that the Federal courts were not
bound by the decisions of the State courts "upon questions of
general commercial law
We have already seen that the
statutes of Alabama placed under the protection of the qommercial law promissory notes payable in money at a certain
designated place, but how far the rights of parties here are
affected by the rules and doctrines of that law is for the Federal
courts to determine, upon their own judgment as to what these
rules and doctrines are."
To this doctrine, which received the approval of all the
members of this court when first announced, we have, as our
decisions show, steadily adhered. We perceive no reason for
its modification in any degree whatever. We could not infringe
upon it, in this case, without disturbing or endangering that
stability which is essential to be maintained in the rules of
commercial law The decisions of the New York court, which
we are asked to follow in determining the rights of parties
under a contract there made, are not in exposition of any legislative enactment of that State. They express the opinion of
that court, not as to the rights of parties under any law local
to that State, but as to their rights under the general commercial law existing throughout the Union, except where it may
have been modified or changed by some local statute. It is a
law not peculiar to one State, or dependent upon local author-

RAILROAD Co. v. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

ist, but one arising out of the usages of the commercial world.
Suppose a State court, in a case before it, should determine
what were the laws of war as applicable to that and similar
cases. The Federal courts, sitting in that State, possessing, it
must be conceded, equal power with the State court in the
determination of such questions, must, upon the theory of counsel for the plaintiff in error, accept the conclusions of the State
court as the true interpretation, for that locality, of the laws
of war, and as the "law" of the State in the sense of the
statute which makes the "laws of the States rules of decision
We apprehend, however, that no
in trials at common law"
one would go that far in asserting the binding force of State
aecisions upon the courts of the United States when the latter
are required, in the discharge of their judicial functions, to
consider questions of general law, arising in suits to which
their jurisdiction extends. To so bold would be to defeat one
of the objects for which those courts were established, and
introduce infinite confusion in their decisions of such questions.
Further elaboration would seem to be unnecessary
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER and MR. JUSTICE FIELD dissented.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD and MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, con-

curring in the judgment, delivered the following opinions MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD. Commercial law is a system of
jurisprudence acknowledged by all maritime nations, and upon

no subject is it of more importance that there should be, as far
as practicable, uniformity of decision throughout the world.
Bills of exchange and promissory notes are commercial
paper in the strictest sense, and as such must ever be regarded
as favored instruments, as well on account of their negotiable
quality, as their universal convenience in mercantile affairs.
Everywhere the rule is that they may be transferred by indorsement, or when indorsed in blank or made payable to
International
bearer they are transferable by mere delivery
regulations encourage their use as a safe and convenient medium -for the settlement of balances among mercantile men

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

Co.

v. NATIONAL BANK.

of different nations, and any course of judicial decision
calculated to restrain or impede their full and unembarrassed
circulation for the purposes of foreign or domestic trade would
be contrary to the soundest priciples of public policy Goodman v Siimonds, 20 How 343, 364.
Sufficient appears to show that the corporation plaintiff
became the holder of the note described in the declaration, and
that, payment being refused, it instituted the present action of
assumpsit to recover the amount. Service having been made,
the defendant appeared and set up several defences, which are
fully exhibited in its answer filed in the case. Certain proceedings followed, which it is not necessary to notice, as the
parties by consent waived a jury and submitted the cause to
the Circuit Court upon an agreed statement of facts. Hearing
was had, and the Circuit Court rendered judgment in favor of
the plaintiff tor the amount of the note and costs of suit,
and the defendant sued out the present writ of error.
Eight errors are assigned, but it will not be necessary to
give the several assignments a separate examination, as the
questions presented do not properly involve more than three
material propositions 1. That the cause of action is barred by
a former recovery in an action by the plaintiff against the
indorsers of the note. 2. That the plaintiff, inasmuch as it
holds the note as collateral security for a pre-exitting debt,
is not a bona fide holder of the same within the muaning
of the commercial rule which shuts out proof of equities between the antecedent parties to the instrument. 3. That by
the law of the State the plaintiff, in view of the facts exhibited
in the agreed statement, is not entitled to the benefit of that
rule, and that the law of the State in that regard furnishes in
such a case the rule of decision in the Federal courts.
Special findings were made by the Circuit Court, from which
it appears that the defendant was the maker of the note, and
that it was payable to the order of its treasurer, by whom it
was indorsed in blank, and that it was also indorsed by the
firm of Palmer & Company, consisting of the president and
financial agent of the corporation defendant.
Enough .appears to show that the note was made and
indorsed for the sole purpose of raising money for the use of
VOL. XII.

3

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

the defendant, nothing having been paid to either of the
indorsers for their indorsement. When duly executed and
indorsed in blank, the defendant placed the note with others
in the hands of a firm of note-brokers for sale to raise money
for its use. Prior to that, the same note-brokers had frequently borrowed money from the corporation plaintiff, but
they did not keep any account with the bank, and had no
other transactions with the same than those set forth in the
findings of the court.
Twelve call-loans at seven per cent interest were made at
different times by the plaintiff to the note-brokers on collaterals, as specifically enumerated and described in the findings,
each of which was separate and had no reference to any other,
and it appears that each was made upon a separate lot of
collaterals. Two of those 'loans, to wit, the one for $36,000,
and the last one, which is.for $10,000, will be the subject of
special comment in disposing of the case.
Before the brokers applied for the loan of $36,000, it appears
that they had paid all their previous loans obtained from the
plaintiff, and that they procured the loan upon collaterals,
among which was the note for $36,000 described in the findings. Other banks or capitalists made loans to tuese brokers,
taking collaterals as security, and the plaintiff three weeks
later loaned them $10,000 more, taking as security the four
notes mentioned in the findings.
Adequate collaterals were at that time held by the plaintiff
for each of those loans, but it appears that the pronisors of
one of the collaterals given for the last loan, within eleven
days after the money was advanced, failed in business and
became notoriously bankrupt, and that knowledge of that fact
reached the plaintiff. Prior to that, it was known that the
brokers who negotiated the loans were insolvent, and the
findings show that they, at the request of the plaintiff, executed and delivered to it the instrument exhibited in the transcript, in which they agreed that all securities, bonds, stocks,
or other property deposited by them with the plaintiff might
be held by it, and be deemed security for all their indebtedness
to the plaintiff, as more fully set forth in the findings.
Certain advances were made by the brokers to the defend-

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD Co. v. NATIONAL BANK.

ant, by reason of which the latter became indebted to them
in the sum of $600, and it appears that the defendant
tendered that sum both to the brokers and the plaintiff, and
demanded the return of note in suit.
Payment in full of the large note was obtained by the
plaintiff out of the collaterals originally deposited with it for
that purpose, and it appears that the moneys collected from
those collaterals exceeded the amount of that loan by the sum
of $2, 403.61, so that the entire balance remaining due on
the last loan was $5,906.99.
Process to enforce payment was first sued out against the
indorsers, and in that action the plaintiff recovered judgment
in the sum of $600, which sum, with the costs of suit, was duly
paid, and it appears that the balance due, deducting the. collections from the collaterals and the judgment against the indorsers, is $5,136.68, for which, with interest and costs, the
judgment was entered in the Circuit Court.
Judgments rendered in courts of competent jurisdiction are
conclusive between the parties and privies until the same are
reversed or in some manner set aside and annulled.
When a fact has once been tried and decided by a court of
competent jurisdiction, it cannot be again contested between
the same parties or their privies in the same or any other court,
if it appear that the same matter was directly involved in the
pleadings and that the merits of the cause were decided in
the first case.
Parties and privies in such a case are bound by the estoppel,.
but the holder of a negotiable bill of exchange or promissory
note may pursue his remedy against the indorsers as well as
the immediate promissory party Consequently, as stated by
Mr. Bigelow, an indorsee of a bill of exchange or promissory
note may sue all the prior parties concurrently or successively
at his election, subject to the condition that he is entitled
to but one satisfaction. Bigelow, Estoppel (2d ed.), 55,
Bishop v Haywood, 4 T. R. 478, Britten v Webb, 2 Barn. &
Cress. 483 1 Windham v Wither, 1 Stra. 515, Burgess v Merrill, 4 Taunt. 468, -Farwellv Hilliard,3 N. H. 318, -Porterv.
Ingraham, 10 Mass. 88.
Authorities to show that the holder in such a case is not

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL

BANK.

[Slip. Ct.

estopped to sue the maker because he has recovered judgment
against the indorser are numerous and decisive. Russell &
.Erwin Alianuf Co. v Carpenter, 5 Hun (N. Y.), 162, Story,
Promissory Notes (7th ed.), sect. 401, Pritchardv Hitchcock,
6 Man. & G. 151, 201.
Suppose that is so, then it is insisted by the defendant
that the plaintiff is not a bona-fide holder for value in the usual
course of business within the meaning of the commercial law
Questions of fact are set at rest by the findings, from which
it appears that the note is payable to the treasurer of the defendant or order, by whom it was indorsed in blank as well as
by the firm, consisting of the president and financial agent of
the company, that it was placed by the maker in the hands
of the brokers for sale to raise money for the use of the maker,
and that the plaintiff loaned the full amount of the note to
the agents of the defendant and took the note indorsed in
blank as collateral security for the loan before maturity
None of these matters are disputed, and it is equally and undeniably true that the whole of the money loaned went into
the hands of the defendant, in pursuance of the arrangement
it made with its own agents.
Neither fraud nor mistake is alleged or even suggested in
respect to any one of these matters, from which it follows, as a
necessary legal conclusion, that the plaintiff became the actual
holder of the note in good faith before maturity by delivery
from the agents of the defendanit, and that it as such assumed
the responsibility to demand payment of the maker when the
note fell due, and, if not paid, to give the required notice of nonpayment to the indorsers.
Beyond all question, the findings show that the plaintiff in
good faith became a party to the note described in the declaration before maturity, and that as such holder it was bound to
adopt proper measures to fix the liability of the indorsers, and
that if it had failed to demand payment of the maker, or to give
the required notice to the indorsers, it would have become
liable to the party from whom it received the note for whatever loss ensued from such neglect. Such a holder of a foreign
bill of exchange, if not paid at maturity, must see that it is
duly protested, and for the same reason the holder of an inland

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

bill or negotiable promissory note must see to it that proper
steps are taken, in case of non-payment by the acceptor or
maker, to fix the liability of parties to the instrument who
would otherwise be discharged.
Securities of a negotiable character may be transferred by
indorsement made at the time they are delivered, or if indorsed
in blank or made payable to bearer, they may be transferred
by mere delivery without any new indorsement. In either
case, the holder, other things being equal, acquires full title to
the instrument, the correct commercial rule being that whoever lawfully and in good faith becomes the holder of a valid
negotiable bill of exchange or promissory note before maturity,
by direct indorsement or by delivery when indorsed in blank
or made payable to bearer, assumes the responsibility, if not
paid when it falls due,'of entering protest or of making demand
and giving notice of non-payment as the case may require, and
that in all cases of such a transfer the holder, whether he paid
cash for the note or made new advances to the traAsferrer, or
accepted it in substitution of prior collaterals surrendered, or
received it in payment of property sold or of antecedent indebtedness, or as collateral security of a pre-existing debt or
any pecLuniary liability for the pledgor, is a holder for value in
the usual course of business within the meaning of the commercial law, and is unaffected by any equities between the antecedent parties, provided he took it in good faith and, without
notice of anything to impeach the title or the person from
whom it was received.
Authorities everywhere agree at the present time that a
bona fide holder of a negotiable instrument for a valuable consideration, without notice of anything which impeaches its
validity, if he takes it under an indorsement made before
maturity, holds the title unaffected by any equities between
the antecedent parties, even though as between them it may
be without any legal validity Swzft v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, 15.
Instruments of the kind are commercial paper in the strictest sense, and must ever be regarded as favored securities, on
account of their universal convenience in mercantile transactions and the settled rule is that transferees of the same hold
the instrument clothed with the presumption that it was nego-

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

tiuted for value, in the usual course of business, at the time of
its execution, and without notice of any equities between the
antecedent parties to the instrument. Collins v Gilbert, 94
U. S. 753.
Possession of such an instrument before maturity, if indorsed
in blank or payable to bearer, is )rzmaface evidence that the
holder is the owner and lawful possessor of the same, and
nothing short of proof that he had knowledge, at the time he
took it, of the facts which impeach the title as between the
antecedent parties, not even gross negligence, if unattended
with mala fides, is sufficient to overcome the effect of that
evidence, or to invalidate the title of the holder supported by
that presumption.
Goodman v Harvey, 4 Ad. & E. 870,
Goodman v Simonds, 20 How. 343, 365, Bank v Leghton,
2 Excb. Rep. 61, Wheeler v Guild, 20 Pick. (Mass.) 545,
550, Magee v Badger, 34 N Y 247, 249.
Apply that rule in an action by the transferee against the
maker of a negotiable note indorsed in blank, or payable to
bearer, and it is clear that he has nothing to do in the opening
of his case except to prove the signatures to the instrument
and introduce the same in evidence, as the instrument goes to
the jury clothed with the presumption that the plauitif became
the holder of the same for value at-its date in the usual course
of business, without notice of anything to impeach his title.
Pettee v P-rout, 3 Gray (Mass.), 502, Way v Rwhardson,
id. 412.
Clothed as the instrument is with the described presumption, the plaintiff is not bound to give any evidence to show
that he gave value for the same until the other party has clearly
proved that the consideration was illegal, or that the instrument was fraudulent in its inception, or that it had been lost
or stolen before it came to the possession of the holder. -itch
v Jones, 5 El. & Bl. 238, Smith v. grane, 16 Ad. & E. x. s.
242, Hall v Featherstone, 3 H. & N. 282.
Cases arise where the supposed defect or the infirmity of the
title appears on the face of the instrument, and where that is
so, the question whether the party who took it had notice or
not is in general a question of construction, and must be determined by the court as matter of law Andrews v Pond,

Out. 1880.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

13 Pet. 65, -Yowler v Brantley, 14 id. 318, Brown v Davis,
8 T.R. 86.
Decided cases of the highesf authority support that proposition, but it is a very different matter when it is proposed to
impeach the title of the holder by proof of facts and circumstances outside of the instrument itself, as he is then to be
affected, if at all, by what has occurred between other parties.
For his own acts he is plainly responsible, but he may well claim
exemption from any consequences flowing from the acts of
others, unless it be first clearly shown that he had knowledge
of such facts and circumstances at the time he became the
holder of the instrument. Actual knowledge of such facts and
circumstances must be proved to defeat the title of the holder,
and the question whether he had such knowledge or not is a
question of fact for the jury, and, like other questions of sezenter, must be submitted to their determination.
Indorsers of negotiable securities enjoyed the protection of
that rule for ages before any successful attempt was made to
annex to it any qualification, unless it appeared that the consideration was illegal, or that the instrument was fraudulent in
its inception, or that it had been lost or stolen before it came
to the possession of the holder. Hinton's Case, 2 Show 235,
Anonymous, 1 Salk. 126; iiller v Race, 1 Burr. 452,
Grant v Faughan, 3 id. 1516, Peacock v Rhodes, 2 Doug.
633 -"Lawson v Weston, 4 Esp. 56.
Throughout the whole period covered by those decisions it
was uniyersally understood that the title of the bonafide holder
was unaffected by any equities between the antecedent parties,
but it was subsequently decided that if the indorser of the
instrument had no valid title to the same, and that such facts
and circumstances were known to the indorsee, at the time of
the transfer, as would have caused a person of ordinary prudence to suspect that the indorser had no right to transfer the
instrument or to use the same for his own benefit, then the
holder, as against the acceptor or maker, is not entitled to
recover. Gill v Cubitt, 3 Barn. & Cress. 466.
For a brief period that rule was followed, but it was never
satisfactory, and at the end of twelve years was distinctly
overruled in the tribunal where it was first promulgated.

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Goodman v ffarvey, 4 Ad. & E. 870, Arbousn v. Anderson,
1 Ad. & E. N. s. 498.
We must hold, said Lord Denman, in the case last cited,
that the owner of a bill of exchange is entitled to recover upon
it if he has come by it honestly, and that that fact is implied
prima facie by possession, and that. to meet the inference so
raised, fraud, felony, or some such matter must be proved.
Abundant authority to support the proposition that the case
which for a period relaxed that rule has been overruled for
more than half a century is found in the reported cases already
cited, and Mr. Chitty says that the old rule of law, that the
holder of a negotiable security transferable by delivery can
give a title, which he himself does not possess, to a person
taking the same bona fide for value, is by those decisions again
re-established in its fullest extent. Chitty, Bills (13th ed.),
257, Worcester County Bank v.,Dorchester J' lYlilton Ban7, 10
Cush. (Mrass.) 491. Conclusive support to that conclusion is
found in decisions not previously cited and in the text-writers
Bank of Pittsburghv Neal, 22 How
of the highest authority
96, Alfurray v Lardner, 2 Wall. 110.
Nothing short of fraud, not even gross negligence, says Mr.
Justice Story, if unattended with mala ftides on the part of the
taker of the instrument, will invalidate his title so as to prevent
him from recovering the amount. Story, Promissory Notes
(7th ed.), sect. 382. Every person, says the same learned
author, is treated in the sense of the rule as a bona fide holder for
value, not only who has advanced money or other value for it,
but who has received it ia payment of a precedent debt, or has
a lien on it, or has taken it as collateral security for a precedent
debt, or for future as well as for past advances. Story on Bills
(4th ed.), sect. 192.
During the period the modified rule referred to was recognized as good law in the courts of the country where it was
first promulgated, it must be admitted that the courts of several
of the States in our own country accepted the same rule, and
that the pernicious effects resulting from those examples are
still to be seen in some of the more recent State decisions.
Attempt was made at one time to maintain that the holder of
a negotiable security, if he received it as-payment of a precedent

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

debt, could not be regarded as a bona fide holder for value in
the usual course of business, even though he took it without
notice of any defect in the title of the transferrer, or of any
equities between the antecedent parties, but that erroneous
rule of decision is abandoned and overruled. Bank of St. Albans
v Gilliland, 23 Wend. (N. Y ) 311, Small v Smith, 1 Den.
(N. Y.) 583; 586, Edwards, Bills and Notes (2d ed.), 322.
Reported cases also show that it was decided during that
period in the courts of the same State that if a party in good
faith took a negotiable security of a holder without due inquiry,
or with knowledge of such facts and ciicumstances as would
put a prudent man upon inquiry in making purchases of personal property, he would not acquire a good title to the instrument, if it appeared that equities existed between the antecedent
parties, and that vigilant inquiry would have enabled the taker
to have ascertained the true character of those equities; but
the appellate tribunal of the State has exploded that legal heresy as applied to negotiable securities, and has in that respect
adopted the true commercial rule as administered in the courts
of Westminster Hall. Pringle v Phillips, 5 Sandf. (N Y)
157, Welch v Sage, 47 N. Y 143, 147
Prior to the decision in the case of Gill v Cubitt, the rule
was that nothing short of proof of knowledge of the facts and
circumstances constituting the equities between the antecedent
parties would enable the maker to defend the suit of the holder,
but the court in that case decided that the transferee could
not recover if the circumstances under which the transfer took
place were such as would naturally have excited the suspicion
of a prudent and careful man. State court dedisions in many
cases followed that erroneous theory, but the case itself has
been authoritatively. overruled in the tribunar where it had its
origin, and the old rule as re-establishea by the later adjudications has been in repeated instances adopted by this court and
by the highest courts of the State where the present controversy
arose. Goodman v Harvey, 4 Ad. & E. 870, Goodman v Simonds, 20 How 343, 364, Seybel v National Currency Bank, 54
N. Y 288, 295, .DutchessInsurance Co. v Hachfield, 73 id. 226.
Much progress, it will -be seen from the preceding observations, has been made within the last thirty years in securing

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

uniformity of decision m respect to mercantile controversies
between the Federal and State courts, and the courts of this
country and those of the parent country, from which most of
our commercial rules and usages are derived. Howry v Eppinger, 34 Mich. 29.
Concede all that, and still it is insisted by the defendant that
the plaintiff took the note merely as a collateral security for a
pre-existing debt, without any present consideration at the
time of the transfer, and that a party who takes a negotiable
security under such circumstances cannot be regarded as acquiring it in the usual course of business, and consequently that
he takes it subject to prior equities. 'any decisions of the
courts of the State concur that if there is a present consideration at the time of the transfer, independent of the previous
indebtedness, a party acquiring a negotiable bill of exchange
or promissory note before maturity as a collateral security for
a pre-existing debt, without knowledge of the facts which
impeach the title as between the antecedent parties, thereby
becomes a holder in the usual course of business, and that his
title is complete, so that it will not be affected by any prior
equities between other parties, at least to the extent of the
debt for which it is so held. Vhite v SpringfieldBank, 3 Sandf.
(N. Y) 222, iew Fork Marbled 1'on lorks v .8mith, 4 Duer
(N. Y), 362.
When commercial paper is pledged by the apparent owner
before it matures as collateral security for advances, the pledgee
in good faith is entitled to hold it for the amount of such
advances, though it turns out afterwards that the party making
the pledge was a mere agent for the true owner, and that the
transaction was a breach of duty to the principal. Belmont
Branch Bank v Hoge, 35 N. Y 65, Murray' v Beekwith,
81 Ill. 43.
Where full value is paid by-the pledgee, and the transfer is
made before maturity, without notice of any prior equities
between the antecedent parties, the title of the holder of the
security is not subject to be defeated by proof that he might
have obtmunea such notice by the exercise of active vigilance.
Cash advances or the sale of goods or other property will constitute a good consideration for the transfer, nor is such a pay-

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

ment or sale indispensable, as it is equally well settled that the
actual discharge of a precedent debt, or the surrender of prior
collaterals, or a binding agreement to give time for the payment of a debt then due, will have the same effect.
ltzng v
Vanderlyn, 4 Johns. (N. Y ) 237, Horton v Burn, 7 Ad. & E.
19, Jennzson v Stafford, 1 Cush. (Mass.) 168, Baker v Walker,
14 Mee. & W 465, Walton v Maseall, 13 id. 452, Wieeler
v. Slocu ,n16 Pick. (Mass.) 62, Kearslake v Morgan, 5 T R.
513.
Examples given by Mr. Justice Story show that the receiving a note as security for a debt, or forbearance to sue a present
claim or debt, or an exchange of securities, or becoming a
surety, or doing any other act at the request or for the benefit
of the maker or indorser, will constitute a sufficient consideraton for a note as well as the payment of money, or the making
of advances, or giving credit, or the discharge of a present
debt, or the performance of work or labor at the request of the
party Story, Promissory Notes (7th ed.), sect. 186.
Differences of opinion., however, still exist where the transfer
is made as a collateral security for a pre-existmg debt, without
any other consideration than what flows from the nature of
the contract at the time the instrument is delivered, and such
as may be inferred from the relation of debtor and creditor in
respect to the pre-existing debt.
Further argument to show that- where negotiable paper is
received in payment and extingishment of a pre-existing debt
the holder is entitled to protection is quite unnecessary, as the
authorities in support of the proposition, even in this country,
are quite too numerous for citation. Townsley/ v Gamrall,
2 Pet. 170, 182, Parsons, Bills and Notes, 221.
Nor is it necessary to add anything to prove that the title of
the holder is good if he took the note outright for goods or
other property sold and delivered to the transferrer of the note
at the time the transfer was made. All this is admitted, or if
not -admitted is so fully established by authority as not to require any further argument in its support. Substantial uniformity of judicial opinion exists both in this country and in
England to that extent, but there is still some diversity of
decision in this country upon the question whether the same

RAILROAD

Co.

V. NATIONAL

3ANK.

[Sup. CC

conclusion will follow where the negotiable security is transferred as collateral security, without any other consideration
than the delay of payment incident to the transaction and
what flows from the relation of debtor and creditor in respect
to the existing debt and the obligation which the transferee
assumes by the reception of the negotiable instrument before
maturity Standard decisions of the State courts are referred
to by the defendant where it is held that the title of the
holder under such circumstances is not good. Bay v Coddington, 5 Johns. (N. Y ) Cl. 54, 59, Coddington v Bay, 20 Johns.
(N. Y ) 637, 644, Stalker v McDonald, 6 Hill (N. Y ) 93, 95.
Sixty years have elapsed' since the commercial rule adopted
and enforced by that series of decisions was first promulgated, and yet it does not and never has commanded the
slightest countenance from any court sitting in Westminster
Hall. Earnest differences of opinion existed in that country
among judicial men in respect to the extent of the protection
which the commercial law afforded to a bonafide holder of a
negotiable security against the equities between the antecedent
parties, but there is no authentic evidence that any substantial
diversity of opinion ever arose in the courts of that country
touching the question under consideration.
Partners engaged in business being ii want of available
means, the senior member gave his note to a bank to enable
the firm to overdraw their account, and the junior member
gave his note to the maker of the first note for half the amount.
In the course of subsequent transactions the payee of the last
note indorsed it to his creditors as collateral security for a preexisting debt. Payment of the note being refused, the holders
sued the maker, who made defence that the plaintiffs were not
bonafide holders, but the court held otherwise, and rendered
judgment in favor of the plaintiffs, separate opinions being
given by all the justices of the court. Heywood v WKatson, 1 M.
& P 268, s. c.4 Bing. 496.
Consideration was given for the note in the case of Percival
v Frampton (2 C., M. & R. 180), but the court unanimously
held that, if the note had been transferred merelv as a collateral
security for a previous debt, the plaintiffs might properly be
described as holders for a valuable consideration.

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

Co. v. NATIONAL BANK.

Holders of a negotiable security transferred before maturity
as a collateral security for a pre-existing debt become parties
to the instrument to, such an extent that they assume the responsibility of making demand and giving the required notice
to fix the liability of the indorser, and it is held that where a
creditor received such a security from the debtor and failed to
make seasonable demand of payment, that his laches as between himself and his debtor were equivalent to the payment
of the collateral. Peacock v Purcell, 14 C. B. t. s. 728,
Taylor v Williams, 11 Mete. (Mass.) 44.
Proof of fraud may defeat the right of the holder in such a
case, but where there is no such proof the settled rule in
England is that a party taking a negotiable instrument as a
collateral security takes it for a sufficient consideration and is
entitled to recover. Potrer v Morris, 22 Law J. Rep. N. s.
Q. B. 313, s. c. 2 El. & BI. 89, 104.
Securities of the kind were deposited by the defendant with
the plaintiffs as collaterals for a pre-existing debt, among
which was the check in controversy, and it appeared that the
defendants having failed to pay the debt the plaintiffs brought
an action on the check, the defence being the want of consideration and that the plaintiffs were not holders for value, but
the Court of Exchequer ruled otherwise, and rendered judgment
in favor of the plaintiffs, from which the defendant appealed to
the Exchequer Chamber. Both parties were fully heard in
the appellate tribunal, and the court decided that the title of a
creditor to a negotiable security transferred to him on account
of a pre-existing debt, if received bona fide, without notice of
any infirmity in the title of the debtor, is indefeasible, whether
the instrument is payable at a future time or on demand.
Currie v. lfisa, Law Rep. 10 Ex. 153.
Questions of *various kinds, it seems, were discussed in the
subordinate court, but the statement of the justice who gave
the opinion of the court in the appellate tribunal is, that the
argument was addressed almost entirely to the question whether
an existing debt formed of itself a sufficient consideration for a
negotiable security payable on demand, so as to constitute the
creditor to whom it was paid a holder for value, and the court,
Justice Lush giving the opinion, decided that question in the

RAILROAD Co.

v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

affirmative. His reasons for the conclusion are cogent and
satisfactory, and in the course of the opinion he remarked that
" it was not disputed on the argument, nor could it be, that if
instead of a check the security had been a bill or note, payable
at a subsequent date, however short, the plaintiffs' title would
have been unimpeachable, " to which he also added, that the
proposition had been established by many authorities, both in
that country and in the American courts.
No attempt was made to controvert that proposition as ap-e
plied to bills or notes payable at a future day, but the defend
ant insisted that inasnmuch as the check was payable on demand
the rule did not apply, as there was no consideration, because
it could not be implied that there was any agreement for delay
Suffice it to say in that regard that the court decided that the
supposed distinction "had no foundation either in principle or
upon authority," and proceeded to remark that it does not
follow that the legal element of consideration is entirely absent
where the security is payable immediately
Forbearance is doubtless a good consideration for the transfer of such an instrument, but a valuable consideration in the
sense of the law, as the court remarked in that case, may consist either in some right, interest, profit, or benefit accruing to
the one party, or some extension of time of payment, detriment,
loss, or responsibility given, suffered, or undertaken by the
other.
Call-loans may be regarded as payable on demand, and, inasmuch as the collateral in this case was payable at a future day,
the implication is not an unreasonable one that the arrangemen't operated as an injury to the holder and -s a benefit to
the debtor and pledgor. Such a reason may doubtless have
weight, but it is by no means certain that it is the true foundation of the title of the holder, as other authorities hold that
a negotiable security transferred for such a purpose is in some
sense a conditional payment. of the debt, the condition being
that the debt revives if the security is not realized. Belshaw
v Bush, 11 C. B. 191-205, Griffiths v Owen, 13 Mee. & W
58, 64.
Still not satisfied, the defendant in the case (Curme v. lIisa)
appealed from the judgment of affirmance rendered in the

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

Exchequer Chamber to the House of Lords. Much instruction is derived in respect to the issue between the parties by
referring to the propositions, maintained by the counsel of the
appellant, of which the following are the most important
1. That there was a total failure of consideration, inasmuch as
the defendant Misa never received any value for his draft
except the four bills which were dishonored. 2. That the
check in question was not a bill of exchange,, nor a promissorv
note, nor an order for the payment of money on demand.
3. That the existence of a past debt is not a sufficient consideration for the transfer of the check.
Enough is reported of the arguments for- the appellant to
show that nothing was left undone by his counsel in their
power to do to sustain those propositions, but the learned
judges overruled them all, and affirmed the judgment rendered
in the two lower courts. In giving the principal opinion,
Lord Chelmsford said that he entertained no doubt that, as
between the defendant and the depositor of the check, there
was a sufficient consideration, and that the bankers were
holders for value, and he proceeded to remarlk that the counsel
of the appellant admit that if the judgbs are of that opinion it
will dispose of the case. All the judges concurred that the
holders were holders for value, and the result was the same as
in the court of original jurisdiction. l3/isa v Currie, 1 App.
Cas. 554, 563.
Corresponding views are held in the Queen's Bench, in the
Court of Appeals, and in the High Court of Chancery Where
a party by means of a false pretence, or condition which he
does not fulfil, procures another party to give him a note or
acceptance in favor of a third person, to- whom he pays it and
who receives it bonafide for value, the Queen's Bench decided
that the giver remains liable to pay the same, because his
acceptance or transfer of the same imports value przma face,
and he can only relieve himself from his promise to pay the
holder by showing that he is not a holder for value, or that he
received the instrument in bad faith, or with notice of its
infirmity
Watson v. Bussell, 3 B. & S. 34, 40.
Two of the justices concurred in that proposition without
any qualification, and the Chief Justice also concurred in the

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

same to the extent of the debt of the holder it was pledged to
secure, which is the same rule that 5baw, C. J., with the concurrence of all his associates, adopted nearly twenty years
earlier. Cltcopee Bank v Chapin, 8 Metc. (Mass.) 40.
Commercial securities, when transferred to discharge a preexisting debt, it is admitted, give the bolder a good title which
will shut out prior equities, and the Court of Appeals in a
recent case decided that there was no difference in that regard
between past and present consideration to be found in the
books, and held that the transfer of a bill of lading for a valuable consideration to a bona ficle transferee defeats the right
of stoppage 2n transity of the unpaid vendor of the goods,
although the consideration was past and not given at the time
the bill of lading was delivered to the transferee by the lawful
holder. Leask v Scott, 2 Q. B. D. 376, 380.
Certain bankers pressed their debtors for better security,
and the debtors, having promised to comply with the request,
hypothecated merchandise for tbe purpose, evidenced by warehouse certificates, which the debtors agreed to deliver as soon
as they could be procured from the warehouse. They, the
debtors, procured the warrants, but refused to deliver the same,
when the plaintiffs instituted the present suit, to which the
respondents demurred, insisting that the existence of the debt
is no sufficient consideration for such an agreement. Among
other things, the respondents contended that the allegations of
the bill did not exhibit a transaction where the complainants
promised to abstain from suing their demand for any certain
time, but the Vice-Chancellor held that the bankers did in
effect give, and that the respondents did receive, the benefit of
some degree of forbearance and benefit that they would not
have obtained if they had not made the agreement, and the
demurrer was accordingly overruled. Alliance Bank v Broom
C., 2 Drew & Sin. 289
Without more, these authorities are sufficient to show that
there is but one voice upon the subject in the courts of the
parent country, and that they speak to the point with a
degree of unanimity and uniformity well calculated to excite
admiration and to inspire confidence that the rule of decision
is both correct and just. Not only every court, but every

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

judge of every court, in that country concurs in the proposition, that the holder of such a negotiable security before
maturity, as collateral to a pre-existing debt, without notice of
any prior equities, is a bona fide holder for value in the usual
course of business, and that his title to the instrument is good,
and wholly unaffected by any such prior equities between the
antecedent parties. Text-writers everywhere adopt the same
rule, and recognize and commend it as the correct and true rule
of decision.
So, if a bill or note be indorsed as a collateral security, says
Chitty, that is an adequate consideration to enable the party to
sue thereon, though he advanced no new credit on the bill or
note at the time, and he lays down the same rule as to the
receipt of a bill or note in payment of a pre-existing debt.
Chitty, Bills (13th ed.), 74.
In the ordinary course. of things, says Mr. Justice Story, the
holder is presumed to be the przmafacze holder of such a security for value, and he is not bound to give evidence that he
gave any value for it, until the other party establishes the
want or failure or illegality of the consideration, or that the
bill had been lost or stolen before it came to the possession of
the holder. It may then be incumbent on him to show that
he has given value for it, because he ought not, under such circumstances, to be placed, in a better situation than the antecedent parties through whom he obtained the instrument. Story,
Bills (4th ed.), sect. 193, Story, Notes (7th ed.), sects. 195,
196.
A creditor, says Byles, may agree to take a bill as collateral
security for a debt already due, without affecting his present
right to sue for the debt, but, if a creditor elects so to do, he
becomes the trustee to that extent of the debtor, and is bound
to perform the duties of a holder in respect to presentment and
notice of dishonor, and, if he fail to do so, the parties only
liable conditionally are discharged, as no one but the actual
holder can perform those duties. Byles, Bills (5th Am. ed.),
369, Peacock v Purcell, 32 L. J 256, s. o. 14 C. B'. . s.
728.
Litigated cases often arise where there is a present consideration given for the transfer, and Mr. Daniel regards it as
voL. xII.

4

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

agreed that the holder of the collateral security, in all such
cases, is a bona fide holder for value, if he took the security
without notice of any equities between the antecedent parties,
or if there was any agreement, express or 'mplied, to give time
of payment of the debt to the debtor, but he admits that, where
neither of these conditions exists in the case, the question is
one of more difficulty Those two propositions he supports by
sound reasons and convincing suggestions, and then proceeds to
examine the argument for and against the proposition, that the
same conclusion should be reached even where there is no rAew
consideration other than what arises from the relation of debtor
and creditor, nor any express agreement to extend the time of
payment. His view is, that the issue in sugh a case must turn
upon the question whether there is any implied suspension of
the prior debt until the collateral becomes due, and that an
implied agreement is as binding as one expressed in terms, of
which it is supposed no one entertains the least doubt.
Different examples are put by the author, and the proper
presumption ii each supposed case is stated but he finally
comes to the conclusion that, inasmuch as the holder in such a
case becomes a party to the collateral security, and that he
thereby assumes the burden as such holder of fixing the liability
of the indorser, he is properly to be regarded as a holder for
value, if he took the collateral in good faith and without notice
of any equities between the antecedent parties. 1 Daniel,
Negotiable Securities (2d ed.), sects. 827-830, Blanchard v
Stevens, 3 Cush. (Mass.) 162, 167, IMaitland v Citzzens' Arational Bank of Baltimore, 40 Md. 540, 564.
Three of the theories involved in the controversy are presented by Mr. Parsons for careful examination 1. Where negotiable paper is received in payment of an antecedent debt,
but further discussion of that topic is unnecessary, as it is conceded in this case that the title of the holder in such a case is
as good as if the contents were paid in cash. 2. Where it is
received as collateral security for a pre-existing debt. 3. Where
it is received as collateral security for a debt contracted at the
date of the transfer.
Two objections, as the author states, are usually taken to
each of the last two theories -1. That, as no new consideration

,Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

is paid by the holder, he is not injured by the impeachment of
his title. 2. That such a transfer as is supposed -in either of
the last two cases is not one made in the usual course of business.
Transfers of negotiable securities, for the purpose supposed,
are seldom made, except in the execution of some agreement or
understanding, by which the transferrer is to be benefited, as
by delay or forbearance or further credit, or the giving up of
other collaterals, or the substitution of one collateral for another,
or the promise to forego the means of obtaining other indemnity
or security
Few cases, it is presumed, arise where the interest of the
debtor is not consulted, so that, if the rule should be confined
to the cases falling within the abstract theory of such a defence,
the question would cease to be of much importance, nor would
it often be true that, if the title of the holder should be impeached, he would be left in as good condition as he was before.
1 Parsons, Bills and Notes, 219.
Debtors are often benefited by delay, bat creditors are usually
sufferers. Transactions of the kind, it is said, are not to be
regarded as transfers madge in the usual course of business, but
the court is unable to adopt that conclusion, as the statement
of the learned author is believed to be correct, that a large
part of the use that is made of negotiable paper is as a means
of borrowing money, or of securing debts previously contracted.
Bills and instruments of the kind, indorsed in blank or payable to bearer, when transferred to an innocent holder create
the same liability as if indorsed at the time of the transfer.
Where a party executed such a note to take up a prior note,
and his agent delivered it to a third person as collateral security for his own pre-existing debt, Shaw, C. J., held that
the holder took a good title as against the maker to the extent
of his debt, but that he could not recover any more than the
amount of his pie-existing debt. Stoddardv Kimball, 6 Cush.
(Mass.) 469.
Adjudged cases, almost without number, decide that, where
the pre-existing debt is discharged, the title of the innocent
holder is beyond question, but frequent attempt is made to
show that there is a distinction between taking such a note in

RAILROAD

Co. V.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

payment of a pre-existing debt and taking it as a collateral
security for such a payment. One whose debt is due, says
Redfield, C. J., must pay it, or become a bankrupt in the commercial sense. If, instead of money, he gives a bill or note,
either on time or at sight, whether this is payment in form or
is given as collateral to his debt, he gains time, and is saved
from the disgrace and ruin consequent upon stopping payment.
Viewed as it may be, the debtor in either case derives the
benefit of an implied understanding that the creditor will not
immediately press for payment, unless the new security proves
unproductive, and, if it does, that the creditor may pursue any
other proper remedy Difference in form between payment
and collateral security, it was admitted, existed, but the court
unanimously held that there was no difference in principle,
provided the indorsement was unqualified, so as to impose upon
the holder the obligation to conform to the law merchant in
enforcing payment. Atkznson v Brooks, 26 Vt. 569, 576.
Other State decisions, too numerous for citation, hold that a
party taking a negotiable note in payment of, or as a collateral
security for, a precedent debt, is a bona fide holder for a valuable consideration, and that he is entitled to the same protection
as a holder who receives the same in payment for goods delivered at the time of the transfer, or one who pays cash for the
instrument when it is delivered. Allaire v Hartshorne,21 N.
J L. 665, Hamilton v- Vouglit, 34 id. 187, 191, Culverv Benedict, 13 Gray (Mass.), 7, 10, 7ohnson v Way, 27 Ohio St. 374,
379, Brush v Scribner, 11 Conn. 388, Gwynn v Lee, 9 Gill
(Md.), 138.
Even suppose that the title of the plaintiffs is good under the
rule of the commercial law, as understood and administered in
the Federal courts, still it is insisted by the defendants that the
State courts have adopted a different rule in such a case, and
that the State rule of decision is the one applicable in the case
before the court. Both parties are citizens of the same State,
and it must be admitted that if the State rule is applicable in
the case, then the ruling of the Circuit Court is erroneous.
Various arguments were advanced in support of the proposition,
but the one most pressed is that derived from the thirty-fourth
,section of the Judiciary Act, which provides that the laws of

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

the several States, except where the Constitution, treaties, or
statutes of the United States otherwise require or provide, shall
be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law in
the courts of the United States, in cases where they apply
1 Stat. 92.
State laws furnish rules of decision in trials at common law
in the Federal courts, in cases where they apply, which leaves
it plainly to be understood that those laws do not apply in all
cases, and it was early decided that they do not apply to the
process and practice of the Federal courts. Wyjman v Southard,
10 Wheat. 1.
In cases depending on the statutes of a State, and more especially in those representing titles to land, the court adopts the
construction of the State, where that construction is settled
and can be ascertained. Polk's Lessee v Wendell, 9 Cranch,
87, 98.
Where any rule of real property has been settled in the
State courts, the same rule will be applied by this court that
would be applied by them. Jackson v Chew, 12 Wheat. 153,
162.
Controversies often arise where this court will refuse to
adopt a decision of the State court, as in the construction of a
will, unless it appears that the decision has become, by acquiescence, a rule of property in the State. Lane v Vick, 3 How
464, 476.
Three decisions from the State courts show that the rule of
decision adoptqd by the courts of the State at that period support the views of the defendants, and we regret to say that the
tendency of some of the later decisions m the same tribunals
are in the same direction. Atlantc National Bank of New York
v. Franklin, 55 N. Y. 235.
Such being the fact, it becomes necessary to decide the question whether the decisions of a. State court compel this court to
apply to the facts of the case a rule of decision, believed to be
in direct conflict with the rule of commercial law Nearly
forty years have elapsed since this question was first presented
to this court for decision. Doubts were then entertained
whether the State rule was absolutely settled, but, for the
purposes of the decision, that point was unconditionally ad-

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

mitted. Then as now the chief argument in support of the
proposition was that the question was controlled by the thirtyfourth section of the Judiciary Act, to which the court responded, in the first place, by denying that the word "laws,"
used in the section, included the decisions of the local tribunals
-within the scope of its meaning. In the ordinary meaning of
language, said Mr. Justice Story, it will hardly be contended
that the decisions of the courts constitute laws, adding that, at
most, they are only evidence of what the law is, and are not of
themselves laws. They are often re-examined, reversed, and
qualified by the courts themselves, whenever they are found to
be either defective or ill-founded or otherwise incorrect.
His views were that the laws of a State are more usually
understood to be the rules and enactments of the legislature,
or long established local customs having the force of laws.
None, it is believed, can dissent from that view, and we have
the authority of that opinion for saying that, in all cases prior
to that time, the court had uniformly supposed that the section,
when properly interpreted, was limited in its application to
State laws strictly local, and the construction thereof by the
local tribunals, and to rights and titles to things having a permanent locality, such as the rights and titles to real estate, and
other matters immovable and intra-territorial in their nature
and character; that the court had never supposed that the section applied, or was designed to apply, to the construction of
ordinary contracts or other written instruments, nor to questions of general commercial law
These views were enforced by many other illustrations, and
the court decided-every member of the court but one concurring - that the section, upon its true intendment and construction, is strictly limited to local statutes and local usages, and
that it does not extend to contracts and other instruments of a
commercial nature, the true interpretation and effect of which
are to be sought, not in the decisions of the local tribunals, but
in the general principles and doctrines of commercial jurisprudence. Swift v Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, 18.
Judicial views of a corresponding character were expressed
by Lord Mansfield, as Chief Justice of the King's Bench, nearly
a century earlier, when he said that the maritime law is not the

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

0. v. NATIONAL BANK.

55.

law of a particular country, but the general law of nations.
.Lu/ce v .4yde, 2 Burr. 882.
Mr. Justice Story referred to that case, in support of the
decision of the court, and quoted the celebrated maxim of
Cicero, which, liberally interpreted, is to the effect that maritime law is not one thing in one country and another thing m
a different country, nor one thing to-day and another to-mor,row, but that, in all times and nations, it is immutable and im-perishable. Translation by Yonge (London, 1853), 360.
Commercial law, says Bouvier, is a phrase employed to
denote the branch of the law which relates to the rights of
property and the relations of persons engaged in commerce.
Persons engaged in commercial adventures, wherever they
may have their domicile, have business relations throughout
the civilized world, from which it results that commercial law
is less local and more international than any other system of
$
law, except the law of nations.
Codes, laws, and ordinances of other States, says a learned
writer, whether ancient or modern, are received by the courts
with great respect, not as containing any authority in themselves, but as evidence of the general law merchant. Where
these are contradicted by judicial decisions, they cease to have
any value in the jurisdiction where the law is decided to be the
other way Levi (2d ed.), 2.
Authoritative support to the proposition, that the decisions of
the State courts do not control in such a case, is also derived
from other decisions of this court, in which every member of
the court concurred. Carpenterv The rrovmdenee Washvngton
Insurance Co., 16 Pet. 495, 511.
Insurance against fire in that case was effected by a mortgagor, and one of the questions was as to the amount the
insured was entitled to recover. Reported cases from the State
reports were referred to as furnishing the rule of decision.
Responsive to that argument, Mr. Justice Story remarked,
among other things, that the question presented was a question
of general commercial law, involving the construction of an
insurance contract, which is by no means local in its character,
or regulated by any local policy or customs, that the decisions
of the State tribunals are entitled to great respect, but that

R,1ILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

they cannot conclude the judgment of this court i such a case,
and that this court is bound to interpret the instrument according to its own opinion of its true intent and objects.
Equally decisive views have often been expressed by this
court in other cases, of which one deserves special notice.
Preliminary to the point decided, the court very properly admitted that the Federal courts will pay due regard to the laws
of the States and their construction by the State tribunals,
but the court decided, Mr. Justice Harlan giving the opinion,
that this court is not bound by the decisions of the State courts
ih determining a question of general commercial law, that
such is the established doctrine of the court, so frequently announced as not to require any extended citation of authorities
in its support. Oates v National Bank, 100 U S. 239, Amts
v Smith , 16 Pet. 303, 314, Conkling's Treatise (5th ed.),
140.
Argument to 9how that the decisions of this court referred to
contradict the decisions of the State court upon the matter in
decision is quite unnecessary, as that is admitted. Nor is it
correct to suppose that the leading case, contradicting the views
of the State court, is unsupported to its full extent by other
decisions of this court. Instead of that, the doctrines of that
case were directly and fully reaffirmed in the following case,
decided more than twelve years later. Watson v Tarpley, 18
How 517
State legislation, as shown in that case, had prescribed regulations in respect to the protest of bills of exchange, and notice
of their dishonor repugnant to the requirements of the law
merchant, and this court held that the State regulations were
not operative, and that the payee or indorsee of the bill, in
spite of the State law, might enforce his rights in the Federal
court, as defined and recognized by the decisions of this court.
Reference was there made to the sentiments expressed by Lord
Mansfield, that the maritime law was not the law of one country only, but of the commercial world, and the court decided
that the commercial law was not circumscribed within any
local limits, and that citizens resorting to the Federal tribunals
for the ascertainment of their rights might well claim the
benefit of the rules of the general commercial law Six of the

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

justices of the court, including the Chief Justice, held the same
views in the still later case, to which special reference is made.
Goodman v Simonds, 20 How 343, 371.
Collaterals, previously held in that case, had been surrendered
when the new arrangement was made, and the evidence showed
an agreement for forbearance, and the court, in order to prevent a dissent, rested the case, so far as respected the question
of consideration, upon those special facts, but it is deemed
proper to state that two-thirds of the court entirely approved
of the views of Mr. Justice Story, as expressed in Swift v Tyson, and in his valuable works upon bills of exchange and promissory notes. Confirmation of the proposition that his views in
that decision are correct is also derived from a note appended
to the text of the, third volume of Kent's Commentaries, by
the distinguished author, in which he says that he is inclined
to concur in that decision as the plainer and'better doctrine.
3 Kent, Coin. (12th ed.) 81, Cooley, Const. Lim. (4th ed.)
18.
State decisions, in respect to titles to real estate and transfers
of property, usually furnish the rule of decision in the Federal
courts, by virtue of the before-mentioned provision of the
Judiciary Act, but the established practice is, that it does not
apply, except in matters of a strictly local character, that is
to say, to the positive statutes of the States ,and the interpretations of the same by their wn tribunals, including rights and
titles to things having a permanent locality, such as real property, and that it does not extend to questions of general commercial law, from which it follows that where any contrpversy
arises as to the liability of a party to a bill of exchange, promissory note, or other negotiable paper, -in one of the Federal
courts, which is not determined by the positive words of a State
statute, or its meaning as construed by the State courts, the
Federal courts will apply to its solution the general principles
of the law merchant, regardless of any local decision. 1 Daniel,
Neg. Inst. (2d ed.) sect. 10.
Transactions of a commercial character extend throughout
the civilized world, and it is well known that they are chiefly
conducted through the medium of bills of exchange and other
negotiable instruments. Uniformity of decision is a matter of

RAILROAD CO. V. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

great public convenience and universal necessity, acknowledged by all commercial nations. Should this court adopt a
principle of decision which when carried into effect would
establish as many different rules for the determination of commercial controversies as there are States in the Union, it would
justly be considered a public calamity, as it must necessarily
depreciate our negotiable securities in all the foreign markets
of the world where our merchants have commercial transactions.
Stable and immutable rules are necessary to give confidence to
those who receive such securities in the usual course ol business,
when indorsed in blank, or made payable to bearer, so that if
such a bill or note is made without consideration, or be lost or
stolen, and afterwards be negotiated for value to one having
no knowledge of such facts, in the usual course of business,
his title shall be good, and he shall be entitled to collect the
amount.
Uniformity of decision in such cases is highly desirable, and
these observations are sufficient to show that nothing is wanting to accomplish that great object but the concurrence of a
few more of the State courts, of which none are more to be
desired than the courts of New York and Pennsylvania. It is
hoped that they will concur at no distant day
For these reasons the conclusion is that the judgment should
be affirmed.
I concur in the judgment renMR. JUSTICE BRADLEY.
dered in this case, and in most of the reasons given in the
opimon. But, in reference to the consideration of the transfer
of the note as collateral security, I do not regard the obligation assumed by the indorsee (the bank), to present the note
for payment and give notice of non-payment, as the only, or
the principal, consideration of such transfer. The true consideration was the debt due from the indorsers to the indorsee,
and the obligation to pay or secure said debt. Had any other
collateral security been given, as a mortgage, or a pledge of
property, it would have been equally sustained by the consideration referred to, namely, the debt and the obligation to
pay it or to secure its payment. .If the indorsers had assigned

Oct. 1880.]

NATIONAL BANK V. DAYTON.

a mortgage for that purpose, the title of the bank to hold the
mortgage would have been indubitable. In that case prior
equities of the mortgagor might have prevailed against the
title of the bank, because a mortgage is not a commercial
security, and its transfer for any consideration whatever does
not cut off prior equities. But the honafide transfer of commercial paper before maturity does cut off such equities, and
every collateral is held by the creditor by such title and in
such manner as appertain to its nature and qualities. Security
for the payment of a debt actually owing is a good consideration, and sufficient to support a transfer of property When
such transfer is made for such purpose, it has due effect as a
complete transfer, according to the nature and incidents of the
property transferred. When it is a promissory note or bill of
exchange, it has the effect of giving absolute title and of cutting off prior equities, provided the ordinary conditions exist
to give it that effect. If not transferred before maturity or in
due course of business, then, of course, it cannot have- such
effect. But I think it i well shown in the principal opinion
that a transfer for the purpose of securing a debt is a transfer
in due course. And that really ends the argument on the
subject.

NATIONAL BANK v. DAYTON.
A., being indebted to B., proposed, in consideration of a further loan of money to
deliver, in payment of both sums, a certain quantity of wood at a stipulated
price per cord. B. accepted the proposal, C. agreeing to receive the wood
from him at that price. The loan was made, and A., pursuant to the agreement of the parties, delivered the wood upon the premises of 0. Held, that
A.'s title passed by that delivery, and'that the wood was not subject to levy
under executions thereafter issued by his creditors.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Wyoming Territory
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr Samuel Shellabargerand Mr Jeremiah S. Wilson for the
plaintiff in error.
lr William A. Maury for the defendant in error.

