Oct. 1880.]

BENNETT v. RAILROAD

00.

the bond was through inadvertence and without any intention
to delay the due prosecution of the suit. No harm has been
done, save possibly a short extension of the time for bringing on the hearing. The defendants in error have delayed
their motion to dismiss until a new writ is barred by lapse
of time.
Aotton dented.

BENNETT V. RAILROAD COMiPANY.
The owner or occupant of land who induces or leads others to come upon it for
a lawful purpose is liable in damages to them - they using due care - for
injuries occasioned by the unsafe condition of the land or its approaches, if
such condition was known to him and not to them, and he negligently suffered
it to exist, without giving timely notice thereof to them or the public.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kentucky
Thbe case is stated in the opinion of the court.
11lr Walter Evans for the plaintiff in error.
There was no opposing council.
MR. JUSTICE. HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action by John Bennett against the Louisville
and Nashville Railroad Company, commenced by a petition
framed m accordance with the Kentucky Code of Practice in
civil cases. Its object is to recover damages for personal injuries alleged to have resulted from negligence or want of
proper care on the part of the agents, servants, and employds
of the defendant, a corporation engaged in the business of
transporting freight and passengers for hire. The petition
was twice amended, and a demurrer thereto having been sustained, judgment was given for the defendant. After judgment the plaintiff died, and the action was revived in this
court in the name of Martha J Bennett, his-personal representative.
The controlling question before us is whether the amended
petition makes out a cause of action against the company
VOL. X1i.

37

BENNETT V. RAILROAD

0o.

[Sup. Ot.

Under its averments and for the purposes of this case, as
presented, we must assume the existence of the following
facts -

In the year 1876, the deceased was a passenger on the cars
of the defendant from Vernon to Danville, in the State of
Tennessee. At the last-named place he left the train for the
purpose of taking the steamer " Rapidan," which belonged
to the Evansville and Tennessee River Packet Company, and
was engaged in the navigation of that river. Its customary
place of landing for Danville and immediate vicinity, on that
side of the river, was at a wharf-boat, moored at or against a
lot within a few hundred yards of the railroad station. Between the railroad company and the packet company there
was, at the time, an arrangement or contract, by the terms
of w-bnch each party enjoyed a community of interest (in
what proportion it is not stated) in the freight and passenger
traffic at that point. Each was at liberty to sell through
tickets, and give through bills of lading, over both lines. The
wharf and the lot were owned by, and were under the exclusive control of, the railroad company
The former was
used by the company and the public for storing freight, and
as a convenient place for the landing of steamboats navigating the river. The lot had been purchased and used by
the company in connection with the wharf-boat, for the purpose of facilitating its-passenger business, as well as for the
receipt and discharge of freight coming from the river to the
railroad, or going from the railroad to the river. For such use
of its wharf-boat and lauding the railroad company received
benefit and compensation. To further facilitate its freight
and passenger business, the railroad company had erected and
maintained upon such lot, in front of the wharf-boat, a large
open shed-depot, about two hundred and forty feet in length
and twenty feet in width, in the centre of which was a room
or apartment containing an engine, which was used for the
purpose of hauling freight to and from the river by means of
flats or cars drawn by ropes on railroad tracks. These cars
were pulled up the bank into spaces (of which there were four,
two on each side of the engine-room) left in the floor of the
depot. These spaces or hatch-holes, as they are called, were

Oct. 1880.]

BENNETT v. RAILROAD CO.

about eleven feet in extent, and reached from the river side of
the depot nearly to its centre.
The customary, and indeed the only safe, available, and
convenient route for persons passing from Danville to the
steamboat landing was along a plank-way (on each side of
which the ground was low and marshy), about six hundred
yards in length, extending from Danville along a -side-track
of the railroad, and terminating at or near the northern end of
the depot, thence up a flight of steps to the depot floor, and
across the floor of the depot towards its southern end, thence
down a flight of steps, located between two of the batch-boles,
to the wharf-boat, over a macadamized or gravel way The
latter and the plank-way were constructed by the railroad
company for the convenience of those going upon business to
or from the steamboat landing. The custom of travellers passing between the railroad station at Danville and the steamboat landing to use as a foot-way the plank-road, the depot
floor, and the macadamized way leading to the wharf-boat, was
not only a necessary one, but was known to and permitted by
that company
There was no path or safe or convenient way
around the shed-depot to the wharf.
Such was the situation when the deceased reached Danville
by the cars of the company
Ie stopped at a hotel to await
the coming, that night, of the steamer "Rapidan," whose usual
hours of arrival at the landing were known to the railroad
company Some time after midnight the steamer reached the
vicinity of the landing, and, by whistle, signalled for landing
at tle wharf-boat. Deceased started from the hotel for the
steamboat, for the purpose of prosecuting his journey, taking
with him a lighted lantern. He went upon the plank-way
leading to the shed-depot, having been informed by the landlord that that was the proper route to take. He had proceeded
but a short distance when the wind extinguished the light, and
fearing the boat would immediately depart, and being able to
see the plank-way, he proceeded to the depot (which was
unlighted), and, passing up the. steps at its northern end, he
attempted to cross the floor in the direction of the steps, at
the southern end, leading down to the macadamized or gravel
way which we have described. Ie was unaware of the exist-

BENNETT V. RAILROAD

0.

[Sup. Ct.

ence of the oFenings or hatch-holes in the depot floor, or ot
any other obstruction or danger in his path, and, although
using due care, he fell through one of the hatch-holes (which
had been left uncovered and unguarded for some time before),
down, a distance of at least five feet, upon the cross-ties and
rails beneath. By the fall his left ankle and foot were broken
and crushed, causing severe and permanent injury, attended by
sickness and long confinement to his bed. The demurrer concedes that the company was aware as well of the condition of
the batch-holes in the depot floor, as that such condition was
unsafe and dangerous to the travelling public.
The right to revive this action in the name of the personal
representative of Bennett seems to be clear under the laws
both of Kentucky and Tennessee, by each of which States the
defendant was incorporated, and in the latter of which occurred
the injuries for which damages are claimed. Kentucky Gen.
Stat. 179, Tennessee Code, sect. 2846.
The facts disclosed by the pleadings, and by the demurrer
conceded to exist, seem to bring this case within the rule founded in justice and necessity, and illustrated in many adjudged cases in the American courts- that the owner or occupant of land who, by invitation, express or implied, induces or
leads others to come upon his premises, for any lawful purpose,
is liable in damages to such persons - they using due care for injuries occasioned by the unsafe condition of the land or
its approaches, if such condition was known to him and not
to them, and was negligently suffered to exist, without timely
notice to the public, or to those who were likely to act upon
such invitation. Railroad Company v ffanning, 15 Wall. 649,
Carleton Je Others v Pranconza Iron & Steel Co., 99 Mass.
216, Sweeny v Old Colony & Newport Railroad Co., 10 Allen
(Mass.), 368, Wharton, Negligence, sects. 349-352, Cooley,
Torts, 604-607, and authorities cited by those authors. The
last-named author says that when one " expressly or by implication invites others to come upon his premises, whether for
business or for any other purpose, it is his duty to be reasonably sure that he is not inviting them into danger, and to
that end he-must exercise ordinary care and prudence to render
the premises reasonably safe for the visit."

Oct. 1880.]

BENNETT V. RAILROAD 00.

The rule is also illustrated in many cases in the English
courts, some of which it may be well to examine. One, referred to by this court in Railroadv Hannng,is Corby v Hill,
4 0. B. N. s. 562. That was an action for an mjurv.sustained
by the plaintiff while travelling upon a private way leading
from a turnpike road to a certain building, and over which
parties having occasion to visit such building were likely to
pass, and were accustomed to pass, by leave of the owners
of the soil. The defendant negligently obstructed the way
by placing .thereon certain materials without giving notice or
warning of the obstruction by light or other signal, and by reason thereof the plaintiff's horse was driven against the obstruction and injured. One of the pleas was that the defendant
had placed the materials on the road by the license or consent
of the owners of the soil. Upon the argument of the case,
counsel for the defendant contended that the owners of the
soil, and consequently, also, any person having leave or license
from them, might, as against any other person, using the way
by the like leave and license, place an obstruction thereon
without incurring responsibility for injury resulting therefrom,
unless in the, case where an allurement or inducement wds
held out to such other person to make use of the way Upon
the general question, as well as in-response to this argument,
Cockburn, 0. J., said "It seems to me that the very case from
which the learned counsel seeks to distinguish this is the case
now before us. The proprietors of the soil held out an allurement whereby the plaintiff was induced to come upon the
place in question, they held out this road to all persons having
occasion to proceed to the asylum as the means of access
thereto.
Having, so to speak, dedicated the way to such
of the general public as might have occasion to use it for that
purpose, and having held it out as a safe and convenient mode
of access to the establishment, without any reservation, it was
not competent for them to place thereon any obstruction calculated to render the road unsafe, and likely to cause injury to
those persons to whom they held it out as a way along vhich
they might safely go. If that be so, a third person could not
acquire the right to do so under their'license or permission."
In the same case, Williams, J., said "I see no reason why the

BENNETT v. RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

plaintiff should not have a remedy against such a wrong-doer,
]ust as much as if the obstruction had taken place upon a
public road. Good sense and justice require that he should
have a remedy, and there is no authority against it." Willes,
J., remarked "The defendant has no right to set a trap for
the plaintiff. One who comes upon another s land by the
owner's permission or invitation has a right to expect that the
owner will not dig a pit thereon, or permit another to dig a
pit thereon, so that persons lawfully coming there may receive
injury "
Another case, often cited, is Chlapman v Bothwell, 1 El., B.
& E. 168. The declaration there charged that the defendant
was in possession and occupation of a brewery, office, and
passage leading thereto from the public street, used by him for
the reception of customers and others in his trade and business as a brewer. The passage was the usual and ordinary
means of ingress and egress to and from the office, from and
to the public street. The defendant negligently permitted a
trap-door in the floor of that passage to be and remain open,
without being properly guarded and lighted. The plaintiff's
wife had been to the brewery office as a customer in the defendant's business, and was walking along the passage on her
return to the public street, when she fell through the trap-door
and was injured and killed. Upon the argument, counsel for
defendant insisted that no facts appeared showing it to be the
duty of the defendant to keep the trap-door closed. To this
Erle, J., replied, with the sanction of Lord Campbell, C. J.,
" If you invite a customer to come to your shop, and leave a
pitfall open, or a large iron peg in the part of the floor over
which the customer is likely to tread, is not that a duty and a
breach, if accident ensues 9 " The court there drew a distinction between the case of a mere -visitor, as in Southcote v. Stanley (1 H. & N. 247), and a customer, who, as one of the
public, is invited for the purposes of business carried on 'by
the owner or occupier of the premises.
In Indermaaur v Dames (Law Rep. 1 C. P 274, and 2 id.
813), the court, referring to the class of persons who visit
premises upon business which concerns the occupier, and upon
his invitation, express or implied, said that it was settled

Oct. 1880.]

BENNETT v. RAILROAD CO.

law that a visitor of that class, "using reasonable care on his
part for his own safety, is entitled to expect that the occupier
shall, on his part, use reasonable care to prevent, damage from
unusual danger which he knows or ought to know, and that,
where there is evidence of neglect, the question whether such
reasonable care has been taken, by notice, lighting, guarding,
or otherwise, and whether there was contributory negligence
in the sufferer, must be determined by a jury as a matter of
fact."
In Lancaster Canal Co. v Parnaby, 11 Ad. & El. 280, which
was the case of a company making a canal for their profit,
and opening it to the public use on payment of tolls, it was
held by the Exchequer Chamber that the common law, in
such a case, imposed a duty upon the proprietors, not perhaps
to repair the canal, or absolutely to free it from obstructions,
but to take reasonable care, so long as they kept it open for
the public use of all choosing to navigate it, that they may
navigate it without danger to themselves or property
The same principje was applied by the Exchequer Chamber
in Gibbs v Trustees of the Liverpool Docks, 3 H. & N 164.
That was an action by the owners of a ship to recover for an
injury done to the cargo by reason of the ship, when entering,
having struck a bank of mud carelessly and negligently left in
and about the entrance to the dock. The defendants were
not individually profited by the operations of the company of
which they were trustees, but, by statute, were bound, as such
trustees, to apply the tolls received in maintaining the docks.
and in paying the debt contracted in making them. The
.court, speaking by Coleridge, J., held, that whether the defendants received the tolls for a beneficial or a fiduciary purpose, the knowledge, upon their part, that the entrance to the
dock was dangerous, imposed upon them the duty of closing
the dock against the public, as soon as theybecame aware of
its unsafe condition, that they had no right, with a knowledge
of its condition, to keep it open and to invite the vessel in
question into the peril which they knew it must encounter, by
continuing to hold out to the public that any ship, on the
payment of the tolls to them, might enter and navigate the
dock.

BENNETT V. RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

The judgment was affirmed upon full consideration in the
House of Lords, 11 H. L. Cas. 686. In the opinion, there
delivered by Mr. Justice Blackburn, on behalf of all the
judges who heard the argument, among whom were Lords
Cranworth, Wensleydale, and Westbury, it was said, " For a
body corporate never can either take care or neglect to take
care, except through its servants, and (assuming that it was
the duty of the trustees to take reasonable care that the
dock was in a fit state) it seems clear thbt if they, by their
servants, had the means of knowing that the dock was in an
unfit state, and were negligently ignorant of its state, they
did neglect this duty and did not take reasonable care that
it was fit."
We forbear further citation of authorities. It is clear that
the rule which obtains in the English courts is in harmony
with that generally recognized in the courts of this country
We entertain no doubt that upon the case, as made by the
pleadings, the railroad company is liable in damages. As
the deceased did not purchase from the railroad company a
through-ticket, but only a ticket, over its line, from Vernon to
Danville station, it may be argued that the relation of carrier
and passenger, which existed between the company and him,
terminated when he left the train at Danville station, and,
consequently, that there was no breach of the company's contract of transportation. But there was, nevertheless, a breach
of legal duty or obligation for which, as property owner, the
railroad company is responsible.
It cannot be pretended that Bennett, at the time he was
injured, was, in any sense, a trespasser upon the premises of
the company Nor is this case like many, cited in the books,
of mere passive acquiescence by the owner in the use of his
premises by others. Nor is it a case of mere license or permission by the owner, without circumstances showing an invitation extended, or an inducement, or, in the language of
some of the cases, an allurement, held out to him as one of
the general public. It is sometimes difficult to determine
whether the circumstances make a case of invitation, in the
technical sense of that word, as used in a large number of
adjudged cases, or only a case of mere license. " The prin-

Oct. 1880.]

BENNETT v. RAILROAD

CO.

ciple," says Mr. Campbell, in his treatise on Negligence, "appears to be that invitation is inferred where there is a common interest or mutual advantage, while a license is inferred
where the object is the mere pleasure or benefit of the person
using it."
As each case must largely depend upon its special circumstances, we shall not attempt to lay down a general rule upon
the subject. It is quite sufficient to say that no difficulty of
discrimination exists in the case before us. This is the case
of a traveller, going upon a way which had been constructed
and was maintained by a railroad company, in part for its own
benefit and profit, to be used by all, without distinction, who
desired, for purposes of business, to pass to and from the company's wharf-boat, moored at an established landing upon a
-public navigable river. The deceased, when injured, was
using the premises for some of the very purposes for which
they had been appropriated, and to which they had been, in a
sense, dedicated by the owner. They were so situated, with
reference to the river, and were so occupied and controlled by
the company as not only to invite their use by the public, but
practically to compel those having business at the river landing to abandon such business, or, in its prosecution, to pass
over the route through the shed-depot. It was, therefore, the
plain duty of the company to take such precautions, from
time to time, as ordinary care and prudence would suggest to
be necessary for the safety of those who had occasion to use
the premises for the purposes for which they had been appropriated by the company, and for which, with its knowledge
and permission, it was commonly used by the public.
We are all of opinion that the pleadings state facts sufficient
to require an answer from the defendant. It is a case peculiarly
for the consideration of a jury of practical men, who, under
proper instructions, can best ascertain to what extent, if at all,
under the circumstances actually existing, the railroad company was negligent in the discharge of any duty or obligation,
imposed by the law, and how far, if at all, the deceased was
wanting in due care upon the occasion when he was injured.
To guard against misapprehension, it is proper to remark
also that we must not be understood as making the plaintiff's

SPRINGER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

right of recovery dependent upon proof of every single fact
averred in the pleadings, or which has been recited in this
opinion. We have considered the case in the light of the
facts, as averred, and, by the demurrer, conceded to exist.
Upon the trial, after issue joined, the court will have no difficulty, in view of what we have said, in determining whether
the case, as actually presented to the jury, shows a breach of
duty or legal obligation upon the part of the railroad company,
for which it may be liable in damages.
The judgment will be reversed, and the cause remanded
with directions to overrule the demurrer, and for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion, and it is
So ordered.

SPRINGER

V. UNITED STATES.

1. Certain lands of A. were distrained and sold by reason of his refusal to pay

the income tax assessed against him under the act of June 30, 1864 (13

2.

3.

4.
5.

Stat. 218), as amended by the act of March 3, 1865 (id. 469), he having no
goods or chattels known to the proper officers out of which the tax and
penalty could have been made. The United States became the purchaser
of the lands, received a deed therefor, and brought ejectment against him.
Held, that lie cannot raise the question here that the deed, inasmuch as it
refers to the act of March 30 instead of that of June 30, should, on the
trial, have been excluded from the jury, as that objection to its admissibility in evidence was not made in the court of original jurisdiction.
Where the collector acted in good faith, it was not improper for him, in the
exercise of his discretion, to sell as an entirety the lands, consisting of two
town lots which were enclosed and occupied as a single homestead, a dwelling-house being upon one of them and a barn on the other. The State
statute under which they were separately assessed has no application to
his proceedings.
Congress, ia the exercise of its power "to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts,
and excises," may, to enforce their payment, authorize the distraint and
sale of either real or personal property The owner of the property so
distrained and sold is not thereby deprived of it without due process of
law.
Direct taxes, within the meaning of the Constitution, are only capitation taxes
as expressed in that instrument, and taxes on real estate.
The duty which the internal revenue acts provided should be assessed, collected, and paid upon gains, profits, and incomes was an excise or duty,
and not a direct tax, within the meaning of the Constitution.

