Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OP MOBILE V. KIMBALL.

was in error in its construction of the bankrupt law and in
affirming the instruction of the inferior court.
Judgment reversed, and cause remandedfor further
proceedings rn conformity with thzs opznton.

COUNTY OF MOBILE v. KIMBALL.

1. The power conferred upon Congress by the commerce clause of the Constitu-

2.

3.

4.

6.

6.

tion is exclusive, so far as it relates to matters within its purview which
are national in their character, and admit or require uniformity of regulation affecting all the States. That clause was adopted in order to secure
such uniformity against discriminating State legislation.
Commerce with foreign countries and among the States, strictly considered,
consists in intercourse and traffic, including in these terms navigation and
the transportation and transit of persons and property as well as the purchase, sale, and exchange of commodities. To regulate it, as thus defined,
there must be only one system of rules applicable alike to the whole country, which Congress alone can prescribe.
State legislation is not forbidden touching matters either local in their nature
or operation, or intended to be mere aids to commerce, for which special
regulations can more effectually provide, such as harbor pilotage, beacons,
buoys, and the improvement of harbors, bays, and navigable rivers within
a State, if their free navigation under the laws of the United States be not
thereby impaired. Congress, by its non-action in such matters, virtually
declares that, for the time being and until it deems fit to act, they may be
controlled by State authority. The act of the State of Alabama, entitled
"An Act to provide for the improvement of the river, bay, and harbor
of Mobile," approved Feb. 16, 1867, is, therefore, not m conflict with the
Constitution.
The provision for issuing bonds by the president and commissioners of revenue of Mobile County is not a taking of private property for public use,
within the meaning of the Constitution of Alabama, nor can it be declared invalid, although it may impose upon one county the expense of an
improvement m which the whole State is interested.
The harbor board was authorized by that act to provide for the contemplated
improvement by entering into a contract therefor binding upon the county.
If specific performance cannot for any reason be enforced in favor of the
party who is thereunto entitled, on his completion of the work under the
contract, a court of equity will adjudge that compensation in damages be
made to him by the county.
A decree dismissing his bill without prejudice is not a ar to a subsequent suit
for the same cause of action.

COUNTY

OF MOBILE v. KIMBALL.

[Sup. Cf.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the Umted States for the
Southern District of Alabama.
By an act of the General Assembly of Alabama, entitled
"An Act for the improvement of the bay and harbor of Mobile," approved Feb. 21, 1860, the collector of customs for the
port of Mobile, the mayor of the city of Mobile, and the president of the board of revenue for the county of Mobile, and
their successors in office, were appointed ex offic o a board to be
styled the Board of Harbor Commissioners, for the purpose of
causing the bay and harbor of Mobile to be deepened and improved. To aid the board in the performance of its powers
and duties, the president and commissioners of revenue of the
county were authorized and required from time to time, and as
the same might be called for-by the board, to issue the coupon
bonds of the county, and to hand them over to the board to
be sold. The proceeds were to be applied to the work as its
necessities might require, and as authorized by the act. The
whole amount of bonds was limited to $800,000. No steps
were taken under the act. Another act was passed, Feb. 16,
1867, entitled "An Act to provide for the improvement of the
river, bay, and harbor of Mobile." The president of the court
of county commissioners of revenue of Mobile County, the
mayor of Mobile, the president of the Bank of Mobile, the
president of the Mobile Chamber of Commerce, and one citizen
of the county of Mobile, to be appointed by the governor of
the State, and their successors in office, were thereby constituted
a board for the improvement of the river, harbor, and bay of
Mobile. The president and commissioners of revenue of Mobile County were, by the second section, required to issue
bonds for $1,000,000, payable as they might deem proper, to
be delivered to the board whenever the latter might require
them, and the court was required to levy and cause tor be collected such tax as might be deemed proper to pay them.
The third and fourth sections are as follows "SECT. 3. That said board for the improvement of the river,
harbor, and bay of Mobile are hereby authorized to receive such
bonds and apply them or the proceeds of them to the improvement,
cleaning out, deepening, and widening of the river, harbor, and bay
of Mobile, or any part thereof, or the making an artificial harbor,

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF MOBILE V. KIMBALL.

and such 'improvement, cleaning out, deepening and widening or
any part thereof or all of it, or the making an artificial harbor
shall be made in such manner as the said board may direct, and
for that purpose they may make any rules and regulations and
assess the dues or tolls to be collected on vessels or water-crafts,
and do any act they may deem proper to effect the objects of
this act.
"SECT. 4. That, in addition to the foregoing powers, the said
commissioners are vested with the authority to purchase and condemn lands according to the provision of sdct. 13 of .i act for the
improvement of the bay and harbor of lobile, approved Feb. 21,
1860, and to take and receive all moneys, papers, books, records,
and surveys, and all property pertaining to said commissioners, in
said act, and the city of Mobile shall be vested with the title of all
lands made by the deposits of all excavations in the progress of
this work as provided for in said act, and the commissioners designated in this act, and all officers, clerks, and employds, shall be
subjected to and be held liable to the duties, penalties, and punishments provided for in the fifteenth section of the said act."
The harbor board was organized under the provisions of this
act, and on the 24th of June, 1872, it entered into a contract
with Kimball and Slaughter for dredging a channel through
Dog River Bar, in the bay of Mobile. The work was to be
commenced by the first day of August, 1872, and completed
on or before June 1, 1873. The harbor board agreed to pay
the contractors 49 cents per cubic yard of material excavated
and removed, and payments were to be made in bonds of the
county of Mobile issued under this act, at the rate of 821 cents
on the dollar.
The work under the contract was completed March 15, 1873,
and on the following day it was accepted by the engineer m
charge, whose action was approved by the board.
Prior to June 1, 1878, the court of county commissioners
had issued to the harbor board two hundred bonds of $1,000
each. The president of the harbor board admitted, June 5,
1873, that Kimball and Slaughter were then entitled to seventeen bonds of $1,000 each, and he delivered a written statement
to that effect. The board delivered eleven bonds to them, July
29, 1873, leaving due to them six bonds.

COUNTY OF MOBILE V. KIMBALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Kimball and Slaughter, in their bill filed against the county
of Mobile, claim and aver that, after the delivery to them of
the eleven bonds, the board had neither bonds, money, nor
other means to pay them, and that all the two hundred bonds
delivered to it had been applied to the purposes for which they
had been issued.
An act of the legislature of April 19, 1873, limited to the
sum of $200,000 the issue of county bonds to the board, and
required the latter to file a statement of its receipts and expenditures with the judge of probate of Mobile County
On the 25th of November, 1873, the complainants presented
to the court of county commissioners their claim for six bonds of
$1,000 each, or their value in money at 821- cents on the dollar.
The claim was rejected.
The bill avers that on the 8th of December, 1873, the complainants filed their bill in the Chancery Court at Mobile,
against the county of Mobile, to compel it to deliver, through
the commissioner of revenue, six bonds to them, or to require
it to pay the moneyed value of the bonds, and the interest due
thereon, that a decree was rendered for the complainants,
which, on appeal to the Supreme Court of Alabama, was reversed, mainly upon the ground that it did not sufficiently
appear that the harbor board had not fully accounted for
the two hundred bonds, of $1,000 each, delivered to it by the
court of commissioners of revenue of Mobile County
The
Supreme Court adjudged that the bill be dismissed without
prejudice.
The following act of the legislature of Alabama was passed "An Act to close the Accounts and settle the Contracts made by the
iBoardfor the Improvement of the River, Harbor,and Bay
of .1o bile.
"SECT. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Alabama,
that it shall be and is hereby made the duty of the president and
commissioners of revenue of Mobile County to inquire into the
validity and propriety of all claims which may be presented to
them for work and labor done and materials furnished or services
rendered on any contract or agreement with the said board, made
or executed between the fifteenth day of June and the first day of
July, in the year eighteen hundred and seventy-two, for the im-

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF MOBILE V. KIMBALL.

provement of the river, harbor, and bay of Mobile, under the act
approved February sixteenth, eighteen hundred and sixty-seven,
entitled ' An Act to provide for the improvement of the river, bay,
and harbor of Mobile ' .Prowded,such claim be presented to said
president and commissioners within six months after the passage
of this act, and upon the same being satisfactorily proved and
shown to be still due and unpalid, it shall be the duty of said president and commissioners to provide for the payment thereof as of
othe; claims against the county.
"Approved Feb. 23, 1876."
Under this act the complainants, April 8, 1876, presented to
the court of county commissioners their claim for six bonds,
or their value at 82:2 cents on the dollar. The claim was
rejected.
The complainants pray in their bill that the county be required to deliver to them six bonds of the county of $1,000
each, or pay their value at 822 cents on the dollar, with interest
from the completion and acceptance of the work.
The cause came on to be heard upon the pleadings and
proofs, and a decree was rendered in favor of the complainants.
The county then appealed here.
The remaining facts and the assignment of errors are set
forth in the opinion of the court.
H 7ohn
Tr T. Morgan for the appellant.
1ifr (7. 1W Jones for the appellees.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The several positions taken by the appellant for the reversal
of the decree of the Circuit Court may be resolved into these
four- 1st, That the act of the legislature of Alabama of Feb.
16, 1867, "to provide for the improvement of the river, bay,
and harbor of Mobile," is invalid, in that it conflicts with the
commercial power vested in Congress, 2d, that if the act be
not, for this reason, invalid, the expenses for the work authorized by it could not, under the Constitution of the State then
in force, be imposed upon the county of Mobile, the work being
for the benefit of the whole State, 3d, that the right of the
complainants to relief is barred by a previous adjudication in
the courts of the State against their claim, and, 4th, that the
MR. JUSTICE
DFIELD

COUNTY OF MOBILE V. KIMBALL.

[Sup. Ct.

case presented by the bill is not one for the cognizance of a
court of equity Each of these positiohs merits special consideration.
1. The act of Feb. 16, 1867, created a board of commissioners for the improvement of the river, harbor, and bay of Mobile,
and required the president of the commissioners of revenue of
Mobile County to issue bonds to the amount of $1,000,000, and
deliver them, when called for, to the board, to meet the expenses of the work directed. The board was authorized to
apply the bonds, or their proceeds, to the cleaning out, deepening, and widening of the river, harbor, and bay of Mobile. or
any part thereof, or to the construction of an artificial harbor
in addition to such improvement.
In Juie, 1872, the board of commissioners entered into a
contract with the complainants, Kimball and Slaughter, to
dredge and cut a channel through a designated bar in the bay,
of specified width, depth, and distance, at a named price per
cubic yard of material excavated and removed, and to receive
in payment the bonds of the county, issued under the act mentioned, at the rate of 821 cents on the dollar. In pursuance of
this contract, the work agreed upon was at once undertaken by
the complainants, and was completed by them in March, 1873,
and accepted by the board through its authorized engineer.
The amount due to them was paid, with the exception of seventeen bonds. The board gave them a certificate that they
were entitled to that number of bonds, and, after some delay,
delivered eleven to them. It is to obtain a delivery of the
remaining six, or payment of their value, that the present suit
is brought.
The objection that the law of the State, in authorizing the
improvement" of the harbor of Mobile, trenches upon the commercial power of Congress, assumes an exclusion of State authority from all subjects in relation to which that power may
be exercised, not warranted by the adjudications of this court,
notwithstanding the strong expressions used by some of its
judges. That .power is indeed without limitation. It authorizes Congress to prescribe the conditions upon which commerce in all its forms shall be conducted between our citizens
and the citizens or subjects of other countries, and between the

oMt. 1880.]

COUNTY OF MOBILE V. K]IMBALL.

citizens of the several States, and to adopt measures to promote
its growth and insure its safety And as commerce embraces
navigation, the improvement of harbors and bays along our
coast, and of navigable rivers within the States connecting
with them, falls within the power. The subjects, indeed, upon
which Congress can act under this power are of infinite variety,
requiring for their successful management different plans or
modes of treatment. Some of them are national in their character, and admit and require uniformity. of regulation, affecting
alike all the States, others are local, or are mere aids to commerce, and can only be properly regulated by provisions adapted
to their special circumstances and localities. Of the former
class may be mentioned all that portion of commerce with
foreign countries or between the States which consists in the
transportation, purchase, sale, and exchange of commodities.
Here 'there can of necessity be only one system or plan of regulations, and that Congress alone can prescribe. Its non-action
in such cases with respect to any particular commodity or mode
of tran'sportation is a declaration of its purpose that the commerce in that commodity or by that means of transportation
shall be free. There would otherwise be no security against
conflicting regulations of different States, each discriminating
in favor of its own products and citizens, and against the products and citizens of other States. And it is a matter of public history that the object of vesting in Congress the power to
regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the States
was to insure uniformity of regulation against conflicting and
discriminating State legislation.
Of the class of subjects local in their nature, or intended as
mere aids to commerce, which are best provided for by special
regulations, may be mentioned harbor pilotage, buoys, and
beacons to guide mariners to the proper channel in which to
direct their vessels.
The rules to govern harbor pilotage must depend in a great
degree upon the peculiarities of the ports where they are to be
enforced. It has been found by experience that skill and efficiency on the part of local pilots is best secured by leaving
this subject principally to the control of the States. Their
authority to act upon the matter and regulate the whole sub-

COUNTY OF MOBILE V. KIMBALL.

[Sup. CL.

ject, in the absence of legislation by Congress, has been recognized by this court in repeated instances. In Cooley v Board
of Vardens of the Port of Philadelphta,the court refers to the
act of Congress of 1789, declaring that pilots should continue
to be regulated by such laws as the States might respectively
thereafter enact for that purpose, and observes that "it manifests the understanding of Congress, at the outset of the government, that the nature of this subject is not such as to
require its exclusive legislation. The practice of the States
and of the national government has been in conformity with
this declaration, from the origin of thenational government to
this time, and the zature of the subject, when examined, is
such as to leave no doubt of the superior fitness and propriety,
not to say the absolute necessity, of different systems of regulation, drawn from local knowledge and experience and conformed to local wants." 12 How 299, 320.
Buoys and beacons are important aids, and sometimes are
essential to the safe navigation of vessels, in indicating the
channel to be followed at the entrance of harbors and in rivers,
and their establishment by Congress is undoubtedly within its
commercial power. But it would be extending that power to
the exclusion of State authority to an unreasonable degree to
hold that whilst it remained unexercised upon this subject, it
would be unlawful for the State to provide the buoys and beacons required for the safe navigation of its harbors and rivers,
and in case of their destruction by storms or otherwise it could
not temporarily supply their places until Congress could act in
the matter and provide for their re-establishment. That power
which every State possesses, sometimes termed its police power,
by which it legislates for the protection of the lives, health,
and property of its people, would justify measures of this kind.
The uniformity of commercial regulations, which the grant
to Congress was designed to secure against conflicting State
provisions, was necessarily intended only for cases where such
uniformity is practicable. Where from the nature of the subject or the sphere of its operation the case is local and limited,
special regulations adapted to the immediate locality could
only have been contemplated. State action upon such subjects
can constitute no interference with the commercial power of

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF MOBILE V. KIDIBALL.

Congress, for when that acts the State authority is superseded.
Inaction of Congress upon these subjects of a local nature or
operation, unlike its inaction upon matters affecting all the
States and requiring uniformity of regulation, is not to be
taken as a declaration that nothing shall be done with respect
to them, but is rather to be deemed a declaration that for the
time being, and until it sees fit to act, they may be regulated
by State authority
The improvement of harbors, bays, and navigable rivers
within the States falls within this last category of cases. The
control of Congress over them is to insure freedom in their
navigation, so far as that is essential to the exercise of its commercial power. Such freedom is not encroached upon by the
removal of obstructions to their navigability or by other legitimate improvement. The States have as full control over their
purely internal commerce as Congress has over commerce
among the several States and with foreign nations, and to
promote the growth of that internal commerce and insure its
safety they have an undoubted right to remove obstructions
from their harbors and rivers, deepen their channels, and improve them generally, if they do not impair their free naviga.
tion as permitted under the laws of the United States, or defeat
any system for the improvement of their navigation provided
by the general government. Legislation of the States for the
purposes and within the limits mentioned do not infringe upon
the commercial power of Congress, and so we hold that the
act of the State of Alabama of Feb. 16, 1867, to provide for
the "improvement of the river, bay, and harbor of Mobile," is
not invalid.
There have been, it is true, expressions by individual judges
of this court, going to the length that the mere grant of the
commercial power, anterior to any action of Congress under it,
is exclusive of all State authority, but there has been no adjudication of the court to that effect. In the opinion of the
court in G-ibbons v. Ogden, the first and leading case upon the
construction of the commercial clause of the Constitution, and
which opinion is recognized as one of the ablest of the -great
Chief Justice then presiding, there are several expressions
which would indicate, and his general reasoning would tend to

COUNTY OP MOBILE V. KIMBALL.

[Sul). Or.

the same conclusion, that in his judgment the grant of the
commercial power was of itself sufficient to exclude all action
of the States, and it is upon them that the advocates of the
exclusive theory chiefly rely, and yet he takes care to observe
that the question was not involved in the decision required by
that case. " In discussing the question whether this power is
still ii the States," he observes that, "in the case under consideration, we may dismiss from it the inquiry, whether it
is surrendered by the mere grant to Congress, or is retained
until Congress shall exercise the power. We may dismiss
that inquiry, because it has been exercised, and the regulations
which Congress deemed it proper to make are now in full
operation. The sole question is, Can a State regulate commerce with foreign nations and. among the several States while
Congress is regulating it 9" And the decismon was necessarily restricted by the limitations of the question presented. It
determined that the grant of power by the Constitution, accompanied by legislation under it, operated as an inhibition upon
the States from interfering with the subject of that legislation.
The acts of New York giving to Livingston and Fulton an
exclusive right to navigate all the waters within its jurisdiction, with vessels propelled by steam, for a certain period,
being in collision with the laws of Congress regulating the
coasting trade, were, therefore, adjudged to be unconstitutional.
This judgment was rendered in 1824. 9 Wheat. 1. Some
years later (1829) the case of TVillson v Blackbird Creek Mlfarsh
Conpany came before the court. There a law of Delaware
authorizing the construction of a bridge over one of its small
navigable streams, which obstructed the navigation of the
stream, was held not to be repugnant to the commercial power
of Congress. The court, Chief Justice Marshall delivering its
opinion, placed its decision entirely upon the absence of any
congressional legislation on the subject. Its language was "If
Congress had passed any act which bore upon the case, any
act in execution of the power to regulate commerce, the object
of which was to control State legislation over those small
navigable creeks into which the tide flows, and which abound
throughout the lower country of the Middle and Southern
States, - we should not feel much difficulty in saying that a

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF MOBILE V. KIMBALL.

State law coming in conflict with such act would be void. But
Congress has passed no such act. The repugnancy of the law
of Delaware to the Constitution is placed entirely on its repugnancy to the power- to regulate commerce with foreign nations
and among the several States, - a power which has not been
so exercised as to affect the question." 2 Pet. 245, 252.
In the Izcense Cases, which were before the court in 1847,
there, was great diversity of views in the opinions of the different judges upon the operation of the grant of the commercial
power of Congress in the absence of congressional legislation.
Extreme doctrines upon both sides of the question were asserted
by some of the judges, but the decision reached, so far as it can
be viewed as determining any question of construction, was
confirmatory of the doctrine that legislation of. Congress is
essential to prohibit the action of the States upon the subjects
there considered.
But in 1851, in the case of Cooley v. Board of Wardens of
th~e Port of Philadelphta,to which we have already referred,
the attention of the court appears to have been for the first
time drawn to the varying and different regulations required by
the different subjects upon which Congress may legislate under
the commercial power, and from this consideration the conclusion was reached, that, as some of these subjects are national
in their nature, admitting of one uniform plan or system of
regulation, whilst others, being local in their nature or operation, can be best regulated by the States, the exclusiveness of
the power in any case is to be determined more by the nature
of the subject upon which it is to operate than by the terms of
the grant, which, though general, are not accompanied ly any
express prohibition to the exercise of the power by the States.
The decision was confined to the validity of regulations by the
States of harbor pilotage, but the reasoning of the court suggested as satisfactory a solution as perhaps could be obtained
of the question which bad so long divided the judges. The
views expressed in the opinion delivered are followed in Gilman v Philadelphza (3 Wall. 713), and are mentioned with
approval in Crandall v State of Nevada, 6 id. 35. In the first
of these cases the court, after stating that some subjects of
commerce call for uniform rules and national legislation, and

COUNTY OF MOBILE V. KIMBALL.

[Sup. Ct.

that others can "be best regulated by rules and provisions suggested by the varying circumstances of different localities, and
limited in their operation to such localities respectively," says,
" whether the power in any given case is vested exclusively in
the general government depends upon the nature of the subject
to be regulated." This doctrine was subsequently recognized
in the case of Welton v State of lfissourt (91 U S. 275), in
Henderson v IIayor of kew York (92 id. 259), and in numerous other cases, and it may be considered as expressing the
final judgment of the court.
Perhaps some of the divergence of views upon this question
among former judges may have arisen from not always bearing
in mind the distinction between commerce as strictly defined,
and its local aids or instruments, or measures taken for its improvement. Commerce with foreign countries and among the
States, strictly considered, consists in intercourse and traffic,
including in these terms navigation and the transportation and
transit of persons and property, as well as the purchase, sale,
and exchange of commodities. For the regulation of commerce
as thus defined there can be only one system of rules applicable
alike to the whole country, and the authority which can act for
the whole country can alone adopt such a system. Action upon
it by separate States is not, therefore, permissible. Language
affirming the exclusiveness of the grant of power over commerce
as thus defined may not be inaccurate, when it would be so if
applied to legislation upon subjects which are merely auxiliary
to commerce.
2. The second objection of the appellant to the decree of the
Circuit Court is equally as untenable as the first. The question of the validity of the act of Feb. 16, 1867, under the Constitution of Alabama at the time in force, was before the
Supreme Court of the State in 1871. It was contended that
the act contravened the article which forbade the taking of
private property for public use without just compensation, or
for private use, or the use of corporations other than municipal,
without the consent of the owner, and the article which restrained the legislature from delegating power to levy taxes to
individuals or private corporations. The court held that the
act was not open to objection on either of these grounds, except

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF MOBILE V. KIMBALL.

perhaps in the clause which authorized the board of commissioners to assess dues or tolls to be collected on vessels or
water-craft, and if that clause could be deemed a delegation of
the taxing power under the article mentioned, that portion
only of the -act was invalid. The issue by the president and
commissioners of revenue of Mobile County of bonds for the
improvement of the river, bay, and harbor of Mobile was not a
taking of private property for public use, within the meaning of
the constitutional clause. It was a loan of the credit of the
county for a work public in its character, designed to be of
general benefit to the State, but more especially and immediately to the county The expenses of the work were of cohrse
to be ultimately defrayed by taxation upon the property and
people of the county But neither is taxation for a public purpose, however great, the taking of private property for public
use, in the sense of the Constitution. Taxation only exacts a
contribution from individuals of the State or of a particular
district-, for the support of the government, or to meet some
public expenditure authorized by it, for which they receive
compensation in the protection which government affords, or
in the benefits of the special expenditure. But when -private
pkoperty is taken for public use; the owner receives full compensation. The taking differs from a sale by him only in that
the transfer of title may be compelled, and the amount of compensation be determined by a jury or officers of the government
appointed for that purpose. In the one case, the party bears
only a share of the public burdens, in the other, he exchanges
his property for its equivalent in money The two things are
essentially different.
The objection to the act here raised is different from that
taken m the State court. Here the objection urged is that it
fastens upon one county the expense of an improvement for
the benefit of the whole State. Assuming this to be so, it is
not an objection which destroys its validity When any public work is authorized, it rests with the legislature, unless restrained by constitutional provisions, to determine in what
manner the means to defray its cost shall be raised. It may
apportion the burden ratably among all the counties, or other
particular subdivisions of the State, or lay the greater share

COUNTY OF M1OBILE V. KIMBALL.

[Sup. Ct.

or the whole upon that county or portion of the State specially
and immediately benefited by the expenditure.
It may be that the act in imposing upon the county of Mobile
the entire burden of improving the river, bay, and harbor of
Mobile is harsh and oppressive, and that it would have been
more just to the people of the county if the legislature had
apportioned the expenses of the improvement, which was to
benefit the whole State, among all its counties. But this court
is not the harbor, in which the people of a city or county can
find a refuge from ill-advised, unequal, and oppressive State
legislation. The judicial power of the Federal government can
only be invoked when some right under the Constitution, laws,
or treaties of the United States is invaded. In all other cases,
the only remedy for the evils complained of rests with the people, and must be obtained through a change of their representatives. They must select agents who will correct the injurious
legislation, so far as that is practicable, and be more mindful
than their predecessors of the public interests.
3. The objection that the right of the complainants to relief
is barred by a previous adjudication in the courts of the State
against their claim arises in this wise After the complainants
had performed their work on the harbor of Mobile under the
contract with the harbor commissioners, of June, 1872, and the
work had been approved and accepted, the legislature passed
the act of April 19, 1873, to regulate the further proceedings
of the board, restricting the issue of bonds to the amount,
including those already issued, of $200,000, and declaring that
the harbor board should not, under any pretence whatever, be
entitled to receive bonds to any greater amount. Bonds to that
amount had already been delivered to the board, and for six of
them, the number to which they were entitled, the complainants applied. The delivery of the bonds being refused, they
brought suit against the county of Mobile to obtain them or
their value.
Two grounds were alleged on which the responsibility of the
county was asserted one, that the harbor board had ceased to
have anything to do with the improvement of the river, bay, and
harbor of Mobile, and had turned over all the money and bonds
left in its possession to the officials of the county, the other,

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF MOBILE V. KIMBALL.

that the county through its officials had bought from the harbor
board thirty-one of the two hundred bonds issued, at a price
less than their market value, and had refused to deliver to the
complainants the six due to them which they had demanded.
The District Court gave a decree for the complainants, but
the Supreme Court reversed it, holding that upon the first
ground the complainants were mistaken as to the situation of
the harbor board, and that it continued to exist for the purpose
of winding up and settling its business, and upon the second
ground, that although thirty-one of the bonds had been purchased as stated, they had been cancelled before the complainants made the demand for six of them, and it was shown by
the county that there still remained with the harbor board
unaccounted for twenty-three of the two hundred bonds, which
were more than sufficient to pay the complainants and other
debts which the board owed. The court therefore decided that
the delinquency complained of was that of the harbor board
and not of the county, that the only obligations imposed upon
the county were that it should issue its bonds upon the demand of the harbor board, and pay them according to their
stipulations; and as it appeared that the county officials had delivered to the board the whole amount of the bonds demanded,
and that this amount was ample for the fulfilment of the obligations contracted for, the suit could not be maintained. The
.decree was, therefore, reversed and the bill dismissed, but without prejudice,- a condition which prevented the adjudication
from operating as a bar to the same claim, if the complainants
could in another suit obviate the defects of the existing bill. In
the present suit they have obviated these defects. They allege
and prove that the harbor board had disposed of all the bonds
it had received before the passage of the act of April 19, 1873,
restricting the number to be issued, and that it had turned over
to the officials of the county neither bonds nor proceeds to meet
the demand of the complainants. The two suits, though seeking the same relief, rest upon a different state of facts, and
the adjudication in the one constitutes, therefore, no bar to a
recovery in the other.
4. But it is finally objected that the case presented by the bill
is not one for the cognizance of a court of equity This objecVOL. xir.

45

COUNTY OF MOBILE V. KIIBALL.

[Sup. Ct.

tion is important only from the supposed effect of the decision
of the Supreme Court of the State in the first suit against the
county brought by the complainants. It appears to have been
taken for granted by counsel, and also by the court below, that
the Supreme Court of the State had decided that the harbor
board -was not the agent of the county in making the contract
with the complainants. We do not so read its opinion. It
only says that the board was created by the General Assembly
of the State, and was not an agent apposnted by the county of
Mobile. It does not state that the board was not an agent of
the county, but only that its appointment was not from the
county, and that it drew its existence and authority from the
statute of the State. It is not necessary to constitute an agency
of a political subdivision of a State that its officials should be
elected by its people or be appointed with their assent. It is
enough to give them that character that, however appointed,
they are authorized by law to act for the county, district, or
other political subdivision. Here, the harbor board, created
by a law of the State, was authorized to make contracts for a
public work in which the county was specially interested, and
by which it would be immediately and directly benefited, and to
require obligations of the county to meet the expenses incurred.
It is a mere battle of words to contend that it was, or was not,
an agent of the county because its members were appointed by
It is enough in this case that by
some exterior authority
force of the law of its creation it could bind the county for
work for which it contracted. Having thus bound the county,
the contractors are entitled to the bonds stipulated, or their
equivalent in money If for any cause, the. repeal of the law
creating the harbor board, or the refusal of its members or other
officials to act, the contract cannot be specifically enforced, a
court of equity will order compensation in damages from the
party ultimately liable. That court will free the case irom all
technical embarrassments, to the end that justice may be done
to those who have trusted to the law, and the responsibility
of parties receiving benefits under it. The case here is not
different in principle from the ordinary case of a party being
unable to comply with his contract when specific performance
is demanded. If, for example, there be a contract for the pur-

Oct. 1880.]

TILGHIAIAN V. PROCTOR.

chase of land with which the purchaser has complied, but in
which the vendor has failed, a court of equity will take jurisdiction, and if it be seen that the vendor, from subsequent sales
or otherwise, cannot comply with a decree for a specific performance, the court will adjudge compensation in damages. So
here, the court will grant the relief which the complainants,
under their contract, are entitled to have, if such relief can be
obtained from the county, but if by reason of intervening obstacles since the contract was made whether arising from laches
or default of its officials or repealing legislation, this cannot be
secured, an alternative and compensatory decree, that is, one for
a money equivalent in the form of damages, will be directed:
And as this has been done in the present case, the decree is
Affirmed.

TILGHMAN V. PROCTOR.
1. Letters-patent for a process, irrespective of the particular mode or form of
apparatus for carrying it into effect, are admissible under the patent laws
of the United States.
2. To sustain such letters, the patentee should be the first and original inventor
of the process, and claim it in them. If the means of carrying it out
are not obvious to ordinary mechanics skilled in the art, his specification
should describe some mode of carrying it out which will produce a useful
result.
3. A party who subsequently discovers a new mode of carrying out a patented
process, and obtains letters-patent therefor, is not entitled to use the process
without the consent of the patentee thereof.
4. Mitchell v. Tilghman (19 Wall. 287) reviewed and overruled, and the letterspatent No. 11,766, granted Oct. 3, 1854, to Richard A. Tilghman, and subsequently renewed and extended, relating to the manufacture of fat acids,
sustained as letters for a process.
5. O'Reilly v. Morse (15 How. 62) and Neilson v. Thompson (Web. P. C. 275) commented upon and explained.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.
This is a suit in equity brought by Richard A. Tilghman,
against William Proctor, James Gamble, W A. Proctor, James

