THE ELGEE

OTTON CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

THE ELGEE COTTON CASES.
1. On the 31st of July, 1863, during the late rebellion, E. and 0., owning
certain crops of cotton in 'Wilkinson County, Mississippi, executed a
paper thus:
'We have, this 31st of July, 1863, sold unto Mr. L. our crops of cotton, now
lying in the county aforesaid, numbering about 2100 bales, at the price of ten
cents per pound, currency, the said cotton to be delivered at the landing of Fort
Adams, and to be paid for when weighed. Mr. L. agreeing to furnish at his
cost the bagging, rope, and twine necessary to bale the cotton unginned, and we
do acknowledge to have received, in order to cor, n this contract, the sum of

thirty dollars This cotton will be received and shipped by the house of D. &
L. This cotton is
Co., New Orleans, and from this date is at the risk of M11r.
said to have weighed an average of 500 lbs. when baled."
At the time of making the contract, the cotton baled was stored under a
covering of boards, and a small part of the cotton (about twenty bales)
not baled, was in the gin-house on the Buffalo Bayou, about ten miles
from the Mississippi River, at a place known as "The Rocks," or
"Felter's Plantation," then without the Federal military lines; and
G. and L. were together there. Immediately after the sale, L. employed a person, living near where the cotton was stored, to watch and
take care of the same, and paid him therefor, and this person continued his care of it till it was taken possession of in the name of the
United States. Held, that, notwithstanding the words above italicized,
the paper of the 31st of July, 1863, was executory only and had not
divested E. and C. of their property in the cotton; no money but the
thirty dollars having been paid, and nothing else done in execution of
the contract; and that in a suit for the proceeds of it under the Captured and Abandoned Property Act, which gives to the "owner" a
right to recover, under certain circumstances, property captured or
abandoned during the late civil war, they alone could sue.
2. The same E. and C. (or rather E. alone, who had now become sole
owner of the cotton) subsequently to the above-quoted contract with L.,
made another contract with N. (he not having notice of the first contract), by which E. contracted for the sale to N. " for so much of the
2100 bales as N. should get out in safety to a market, for the price of
£15 per bale, to be paid at Liverpool. The risk of the cotton to be on
the vendors." Held, equally, but as a matter even more plain than in
the former case, that ho property passed by the contract; no cotton ever
having been got out. Held, further, that this was not altered by a letter
in these words from the owners of the cotton:
"It having been agreed on between you and myself that I sell to you all the
cotton of E. and C. now haled and under shed, for the price of £15 sterling per
bale, payable in Liverpool, you will cause the same to be placed to my credit
with J.A. J.& Co., of Liverpool."

Oct. 1874.]

THE ELGEE COTTON OASES.

181

Statement of the case.

APPEALS from the Court of Claims, in which court the
representatives of one Elgee claimed the net proceeds in the
Treasury of the United States of the sale of certain cotton
under what is known as the Captured and Abandoned Property Act; the right of the said Elgee being disputed by a
firm of Woodruff & Co., and also by a certain Mrs. Nutt,
executrix of one Haller Nutt, M.D., both of which parties
claimed adversely to Elgee and to one another; the United
States at the same time denying the rights of all of them,
or, at least, denying them in the way in. which the parties
asserted them. The case was thus:
The act "to provide for the collection of abandoned property," &c., passed March 12th, 1863, after providing for the
sale of such property by the government, thus enacts:
"Any person claiming to have been the owner of any such
abandoned or captured property, may, at any time within two
years after the suppression of the rebellion, prefer his claim to
the proceeds thereof in the Court of Claims, and on proof to the
satisfaction of said court of his ownership of said property, of
his right to the proceeds thereof, and that he has never given
any aid or support to the present rebellion, receive the residue of such proceeds, after the deduction of any purchase-money
which may have been paid, together with the expense of transportation and sale of said property, and other lawful expenses
attending the disposition thereof."
On the 31st day of July, 1863, J. K. Elgee and R. Chambers (the right of which last was immediately afterwards
vested in Elgee alone) being the owners of a quantity of
cotton in Wilkinson County, Mississippi, W. C. Gordon,
their agent, entered, as appeared by the findings of the Court
of Claims, into an agreement with C. S. Lobdell, thus:
" MISSISSIPPI, WILKINSON COUNTY.

"We have, this 31st of'July, 1863, sold unto Ur. C. S.Lobdell
our crops of cotton, now lying in the county aforesaid, numbering about 2100 bales, at the price of ten cents per pound, currency, the said cotton to be delivered at the landing at Fort Adams,
and to be paidfor when weighed, iMfr. Lobdell agreeing to fztrnish at

THaE ELGEE COTTON OASES.

[§up. Or.

Statement of the case.

his cost the bagging, rope, and twine to bale the cotton unginned;
and we do acknowledge to have received, in order to confirm this
contract, the sum of thirty dollars. This cotton will be received
and shipped by the house of Da Silva & Co., New Orleans, and
from this date is at the risk of Mr. Lobdell. This cotton is said
to have weighed an average of five hundred pounds when baled.
" W. C. GORDON,
"Agent for Messrs. Elgee & Ohambers.
"C0. S. LOBDELL."

At the time when the contract was made the baled cotton
was stored under a covering of boards, at some place not
certainly designated. A portion, equal to about twenty
bales unbaled, was in a gin-house on Buffalo Bayou, at a
p!ace known as "The Rocks," or "Felter's Plantation,"
about ten miles from the Mississippi River. At this latter
place Lobdell and Gordon, the agent of Elgee & Chambers,
met. Whether it was the same place where the bulk of the
cotton was lying did not distinctly appear. Immediately
after the contract Lobdell employed a certain J. Morris,
living near where the cotton was stored, "to watch and take
care" of it, and paid him therefor, and Morris continued
his care until the 2d of April, 1864, on which day the cotton
was seized by the agent of the United States.
Lobdell sold his rights under the contract to Woodruff
& Co.
So far as respects Elgee, on the one side, and Woodruff
&.Co. on the other.
The claim of Mrs. Nutt rested on certain facts found as
follows, by the Court of Claims:
In the month of October, 1863, Haller Nutt, M.D., a citizen of Mississippi, employed as his agent Truman Holmes,
to go from Natchez, then in possession of the military forces
of the Union, into the territory of the Confederacy to purchase cotton.
At this time Dr. Nutt resided in the immediate vicinity
of Natchez, and within the military lines and control of the
Union forces; and he procured from the military authorities

Oct. 1874.]

THE ELGEE COTTON CASES.
Statement of the case.

their permits for Holmes to pass out of and into said lines,
on said ageicy.
In October, 1863, Holmes, as the agent of Dr. Nutt, contracted with Elgee for the sale from him of so much of the
2100 bales of cotton stored at Felter's plantation as he
(Holmes) should get out in safety to a market, for the price
of £15 per bale, to be paid at Liverpool. The risk of the
cotton till got out to be on Mr. Elgee.
On the 8th of October, 1863, Mr. Elgee made and delivered to Holies a writing in these words:
"ALE XANDRIA, October 8th, 1863.

"DEAR SIR: It having been agreed on between you and myself that I sell to you all the cotton of Elgee & Chambers, now
baled and under shed, for the price of £15 sterling per bale,
payable in Liverpool, you will cause the same to be placed to
my credit with J. A. Jackson & Co., of Liverpool.
"Yours,
"J. K. ELGEE."
"Captain TRUMAN HOLMES, present."

The position, of course, of Elgee now was that no ownership of the property had passed out of him to anybody1st. That, as'respected Lobdell or his assignees, Woodruff & Co., the sale was one for cash, and that no cash had
been paid; that the amount to be paid was to be ascertained by weighing, and that no weighing had been had;
that the contract was entire, and that the property was yet
to be delivered; but that part of it was incapable of being
delivered until it should be ginned and baled, a matter
which had never been done; Lobdell, who was bound to
furnish them having never furnished the prerequisite bagging, rope, and twine.
2d. That as respected Mrs. Nutt, executrix of Dr. Nutt,
she had plainly no case on the contract found by the Court
of Claims, a contract of which Elgee's above-quoted letter
of October 8th, 1863, made no part; and which was but
"for the sale from him of so much of the 2100 bales stored
at Felter's plantation as Holmes should get out in safety to

TiE ELGEE COTTON CASES.

[Sup. CL,

Statement of the case.

a market;" that this was plainly executory and had never
been reduced into certainty by any cotton at all being got
out, it having all been seized by the Federal government
previously.
On the other hand, and as respected the opposing claimants.
Mrs. Nutt,agreeing that no property had ever passed from
Elgee to Lobdell or through him to Woodruff & Co., but on
the contrary so far as regarded those parties, remained in
Elgee, contended, as respected her husband, Dr. Nutt, that
to him it had passed; and she relied strongly on the letter
of Elgee of October 8th, 1863, to Holmes, the agent of her
husband, as showing this, and as putting an interpretation
by Elgee himself which could not now be controverted on
the matter, whileLobdell and Woodruff & Co. (the latter-named of whom
claimed under the former), treating the contract with Holmes
for Nutt, and the letter of October 8th, 1863, as of no importance, contended that prior to either, the cotton bad
passed to Lobdell, of which conclusive evidence appeared in
the expressions in the contract"We have sold to Mr. C. S. Lobdell our crops of cotton, and
we do acknowledge to have received in order to confirm the contract the sum of $30. The cotton from this date is at the risk
of Mr. Lobdell."
As to the United States. Their presence in the matter
was apparently that the government might assist the court
in doing justice between the individuals interpleading; so
that in finally paying money out of the treasury the government might do to each that which, upon the showing by all,
aeemed to be right.
The Court of Claims in deciding the case, made what it
deemed an equitable division of the funds; appropriating a
part to Elgee as payment for the cotton, at the price named
in the contract with Lobdell, and appropriatinig parts to Lobdell and to Woodruff & Co. From its decree all the parties

Oct. 1874.]

TilE

ELGEE COTTON CASES.
Opinion of the court.

appealed; Elgee himself having died during the suit, and
his representatives now taking his place.
A question was made, and in this court learnedly argued,
as to whether both the contracts which were the subjects of
consideration, were not forbidden by the non-intercourse
acts of Congress, and whether, on that ground, the claims
of all the parties claiming under them did not fall. Any
report of that part of the case or of argument on it is,
however, unnecessary in view of the fact that the property
in the cotton was admitted by all parties to have been originally in Elgee; and that the judgment of this court was
that, even conceding the contracts to have been lawful, no
property passed under either out of Elgee.
. Carlisle,J. D. McPherson, and W. W. McFarMessrs. J
land,for the representatives of .Elgee; Messrs. B. -. Butler and
B. M. Corwine, for Woodruff & Co.; Mr. M1ontgomery Blair,
for Lobdell; Mr. Joseph Casey, for Mrs. Nult, and Mr. S. F.
Phillips, Solicitor-General, for the United States.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases have been elaborately and very ably argued,
touching both the legality and the construction of the contracts under which the different parties claim. But in the
view which we take of the merits of the controversy it is
unnecessary to do more than to examine the contracts themselves, and to determine what is their true meaning.
The findamental question, in all the cases, is whether
Elgee parted with the ownership by either of the contracts
found by the Court of Claims to have been made by him, or
for him by his agent, Gordon. It is the owner alone who
has any standing in the Court of Claims under the Captured
and Abandoned Property Act. In regard to such property,
only such suits can be brought as are authorized by the
statute. That statute furnishes a complete system for the
prosecution of claims under it, and defines the extent of the
rights which those who claim an interest in the proceeds of
property captured or abandoned during the civil war, may
assert against tha government. According to the well-

THE

EILGEE COTTON CASES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.-The captured and abandoned act explained.

known rules of statutory construction, the system is exclusive of all others, and the rights defined are the only ones
which can be enforced in any judicial proceeding. The language of the act makes it plain that no one is allowed to sue
in the Court of Claims f6r the proceeds of captured or abanidoned property unless he can prove to the satisfaction of
the court three things: first, his ownership of the property
seized; secondly, his right to the proceeds thereof; atd,
thirdly, that he never gave aid or comfort to the rebellion.
The third, it is true, has been ruled by this court to be no
longer necessary since the amnesty proclamations, but the
ownership of the property at the time of the seizure, and the
right to the proceeds thereof, are still indispensable to any
standing in court as a claimant for the proceeds of property
captured, which* have been paid into the treasury of the
United States.
We are, then, to inquire whether either Woodruff & Co.,
or Haller Tutt had acquired the ownership of the 'cotton
prior to its seizure by the agent of the United States, on the
2d of April, 1864; for if either of these parties had become
the owner and entitled to the proceeds of its sale before that
date, that party is entitled to a judgment for the sum remaining in the treasury, after the deductions are made provided, by the statute. If, on the other hand, neither of those
parties has shown that Elgee parted with his title; if the
ownership remained in Elgee until after the seizure, and
until his death, his representatives are the only persons that
are authorized to sue for the proceeds of the cotton in the
Court of Claims, for they only are the owners, whatever
equities may exist in favor of the parties who contracted to
buy.
We come, then, at once to the question whether Woodruff & Co. acquired the ownership of Elgee. If they did, it
was mediately through C. S. Lobdell. They made no contract with Elgee, but Lobdell did, and they purchased Lobdell's contract. The contract between Lobdell and Elgee
appears in the findings of the Court of Claims.*
See it set out, sup7ra, foot of p. 181 and top of p. 182.-REP.

Oct. 1874.]

THE ELGEE COTTON OASES.

Opinion of the court.-Rules for distinguishing executory contracts.

At the time when the contract was made the baled cotton
was stored under a covering of boards at some place not
certainly designated. A portion equal to about twenty bales
unbaled was in a gin-house on Buffalo Bayou, at a place
known as "The Rocks," or "Felter's Plantation," about ten
miles from the Mississippi River. At this latter place Lobdell and the agent of Elgee met. Whether it was the same
place where the bulk of the cotton was lying does not distinctly appear. Immediately after the contract Lobdell employed Morris, living near where the cotton was stored, "to
watch and take care" of it, and paid him therefor, and Morris continued his care until the cotton was seized by the
agent of the United States. But it does not appear that the
possession was surrendered to Morris, or that there was any
change of possession. At this time, the region where the
parties were was greatly disturbed by the war, and the cotton was in danger of being burnt by the Confederate forces,
and of being captured by the United States. Under these
circumstances, what ought it to be concluded was intended
by the contract between Gordon and Lobdell? Was it intended to pass the property in the cotton to the purchaser,
or was it in legal effect only an agreement to sell?
It must be admitted there is often great difficulty in determining whether a contract is itself a sale of personal
property so as to pass the ownership to the vendee, or
whether it is a sale on condition, to take effect or be consummated only when the condition shall be performed, or
whether it is a mere agreement to sell. It is, doubtless,
true that whether the property passes or not is dependent
upon the intention of the parties to the contract, and that
intention must be gathered from the language of the instrument. There are, however, certain rules for the construction of such contracts, which are well settled in. England,
and, we think, also in this country. Mr. Justice Blackburn,
in his work on sales,* states two of them, and Mr. Benjamin,
in his treatise,t adds a third. They are as follows:
*Pages

151, 152.

t Second edition, p. 236.

THE ELGEE COTTON CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Rules for distinguishing executory contracts.

First. "When, by the agreement, the vendor is to do anything to the goods for the purpose of putting them into that
state in which the purchaser is bound to accept them, or, as
it is sometimes worded, into a deliverable state, the performance of those things shall, in the absence of circumstances
indicating a contrary intention, be taken to be a condition
precedent to the vesting of the property."
Second. "Where anything remains to be done to the goods
for the purpose of ascertaining the price, as by weighing,
measuring, or testing the goods, where the price is to depend on the quantity'or quality of the goods, the performance of these things shall also be a condition precedent to
the transfer of the property, although the individual goodsbe ascertained and they are in the state in which they ought
to be accepted."
Third. "Where the buyer is by the contract bound to do
anything as a consideration, either precedent or concurrent,
on which the passing of the property depends, the property
will not pass until the condition be fulfilled, even though
the goods may have been actually delivered into the possession of the buyer."
These may be regarded as rules for ascertaining the intention of the parties. They are in most cases held to be
conclusive tests. Though not supported by all the decisions,
they certainly are generally accepted in England, and by
most of the courts in this country. And they are the rules
which are applicable to contracts for the sale of specific
chattels, contracts which define the articles which are the
subjects of agreement, either single articles or aggregates
separated from others, as the grain in a bin, the hides in a
specified vat, &c., &c., or such a case as the present, all the
cotton at a designated place. A considerable number of
the numerous authorities which justify these rules are collected by Mr. Benjamin in his Treatise on Sales.* Applying them to the contract now under consideration, we think
it cannot be maintained that the parties intended the con* Same edition, p. 234, et seq.

Oct. 1874.]

THE ELGEE COTTON CASES.

Opinion of the court.-Oontract with Lobdell considered.

tract should pass the ownership of the cotton at once to the
buyer, without any ascertainment of the whole price by
weighing, without its complete preparation for delivery,
without any delivery, and without payment. This is not
the case of an unconditional sale of a specific chattel for an
ascertained price. Its subject was the crops of cotton then
lying in Wilkinson County. The contract was a cash contract. No credit was intended. An ascertainment of the
price by weighing was contemplated, though it is not stated
where the weighing should be done. The vendor undertook to deliver at Fort Adams. He was to deliver it in
bales. Yet all the property was not in a deliverable state.
Part was unginned, unbaled, and unbagged. The vendor
was to prepare it for delivery by ginning, baling, and bagging it, and Lobdell was to furnish the necessary bagging,
rope, and twine. This was to put the cotton into the condition in which he was bound to receive it, for he was not
bound to receive any unless the whole was ginned, baled,
and bagged. The contract was entire. And the vendor
was not bound to put the cotton into a deliverable state unless Lobdell furnished the necessary materials. Besides, it
was stipulated that the cotton should be received by Da Silva
& Co.
Our conclusion does not rest merely on the ground that
the cotton was not weighed or delivered. It is unnecessary
to decide that weighing the cotton was in this case a prerequisite to the transmission of the property, though that
appears to be the law in England, when by the contract the
goods are to be weighed by the vendor, or by him concurrently with the vendee. In the leading case of ianson v.
Meyer,* where it appeared that under a contract of sale a
vendee agreed to purchase all the starch of the vendor, then
lying at the warehouse of a third person, at so much per
hundred weight, by bill at two months, and the starch was
in papers, but the exact weight was not then ascertained,
and was to be ascertained afterwards, and fourteen days
* 6 East, 614.

190

TEE

ELGEE COTTON CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Contract with Lobdell considered.

were to be allowed for the delivery, and where the vendor
gave a note to the vendee, addressed to the warehousekeeper, directing him to weigh and deliver to the vendee all
his starch, it was decided that the absolute property in the
starch did not pass to the vendee before the weighing, which
was to precede the delivery and to ascertain the price. And
this, though a part had been weighed and delivered, and
though a credit was given. Nothing was wanting to specify
the subject of the contract. It was all the vendor's starch
in the warehouse. So in Simmons v. Swift,* where the contract was, "I have this day, October 23d, sold the bark
stacked at Redbrook, at £9 5s. per ton of twenty-one hundred weight, to Hezekiah Swift, which he agrees to take and
pay for on the 30th of November," and some of the bark
was weighed and delivered, it was held that the property in
the residue did not vest in the purchaser until it had been
weighed. In Loyan v. Le Mesurier,t the sale was by the
following contract: "Hart, Logan & Co., of Montreal, sell,
and Le Mesurier, Routh & Co., of the same place, buy a
quantity of red-pine, timber, the property of Thomas Durell,
of Hull, L. C., but under the control of the sellers, now
lying above the rapids, near the Chaudiere Falls, Ottowa
iRiver, and stated by the said Thomas Durell to consist of
1391 pieces, measuring 50,000 feet, more or less, deliverable
at Quebec on or before the 15th of June next, and payable
by the purchasers' promissory notes, at ninety days from
this date, at the rate of 9-d. per foot, measured off. Should
the quantity turn out more than above stated, the surplus to
be paid for by the purchaser at 9id. per foot on delivery,
and should it fall short, the difference to be refunded by the
sellers." It was held that by the terms of the contract the
sale was not complete until the measurement and delivery
of the timber was made, and that the transfer of the property was postponed until the measurement at the delivery.
Here the timber was fully specified by the description, and
by the place where it lay. A statement of the estimated
5 Barnewall & Oresswell, 857.

f6 MIoore's Privy Council, 116.

Oct. 1874.]

THE ELGEE COTTON CASES.

Opinion of the court.-Contract with Lobdell considered.

quantity was given; the time and place of delivery was designated, as was the price per foot, measured off. Credit
was also stipulated for. It was the case of selling ascertained
chattels for an ascertainable sum. If this stood alone the
contract would have passed the property, but it was controlled by the provisions for the possession, carriage, and
delivery, as well as the measurement and readjustment of
the price. Many other English cases to the same effect
might be cited.* 'We do not understand that there is any
disposition to depart from the doctrine of these cases, or
that of Mr. Blackburn's first and second rules. Of course,
when nothing remains for the seller to do, when the weighing or measurement stipulated for is incumbent upon the
buyer, or when the parties have provisionally agreed that a
certain sum. shall be taken for the price, subject to future
correction, the contract is not within the rules. Turley v.
Batest has sometimes been thought a departure from the
earlier cases, but we think without reason. It was the case
of the sale of an entire heap of fire-clay at two shillings per
ton. The buyer was to cart it away and weigh it. He
weighed, removed, and paid for a part, and refused the rest.
It was held the property of the whole heap had passed to
him. But here the seller had nothing to do with the weighing or delivery. He had performed all he was required to
do, either for ascertaining the quantity or the price. Besides, the jury had found as a fact that the sale was of the
whole heap. The case of Kershaw v. Ogdenj is in substance
the same. In each of these cases the contract was in parol.
and what it was, necessarily for a jury.
It is true there are some American decisions, especially
in New York, that are not in entire harmony with those we
Lave cited. There are at least some dicta in Grofoot v. Bennell,§ tending to show that specification of the subject in a
contract for sale is sufficient to pass the property, though
the vendor has the duty still of ascertaining the entire price
See Zagury v. Furnell, 2 Campbell, 240; Rugg v. Minett, 11 East, 210;
Gilmour v. Supple, 11 Moore's Privy Council, 551:
t 2 Hurlstone & Coltman, 200.
t 3 Id. 717.
2 Comstock, 258.

THE

ELGEE COTTON CASES.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.-Contract with Lobdell considered.

by weighing or measuring before delivery. And in Kimberly v. Patchin,* and Russell v. Garrington,tit seems to have
been ruled that the sale of a specified quantity of grain,
part of a larger bulk, with a receipted bill of sale and an
order for the grain, passed the title without any actual separation or delivery of the property. These decisions, we
think, are not in accordance with the authorities generally
in this country. They are in conflict with later decisions
in New York. In Kein v. Tupper,j the English rule was
strictly accepted. There, it was said by Chief Justice
Church, that when anything remains to be done by the
vendor to ascertain the identity, quantity, or quality of the
property, no title passes. That was the case of a sale of a
certain number of bales of cotton, described by marks, at so
much per pound, and the court said, as the aotton was to
be weighed by the vendors to ascertain the quantity, and
sampled by both parties to ascertain the quality, no title
passed until these acts were done. We do not care, however, to review'the decisiofis on this subject farther, for the
stipulation in the contract now under consideration, that the
cotton should be paid for when weighed, was only one of
several provisions tending to the conclusion that the intention of the parties was not to effect an immediate passing
of the property.
We have already noticed that no sale upon credit was intended. There was, therefore, no reason why the vendor
should part with anything before the purchase-money was
paid or tendered. The possession was certainly retained.
The vendors undertook to deliver at Fort Adams. To enable them to carry, and thus deliver, possession was indispensable. The contract also provided that the cotton should
be received by Da SKlva & Co. This agreement to carry
and deliver at Fort Adams on the Mississippi, where it was
obviously intended the contract should be consummated by
the receipt of the cotton and the payment of its price, concurs with other circumstances in indicating a purpose of the
*19

New York, 330.

t" 42 Id. 118.

+52 Id. 553..

Oct. 1874.]

TnE ELGEE COTTON OASES.

193

Opinion of the court.-Contract with Lobdell considered.

parties that the property was not intended to be changed
until the weighing, delivery, receipt, and payment took
place. So it was regarded in Logan v. Le Mesurier.* Indeed,
assuming, as the contract warrants, that the sellers were to
carry the cotton to a designated place, and to ascertain its
quantity and aggregate price by weight before delivery, and
assuming that it was then to be received, and that payment
for the whole was to be concurrent with the delivery, it is
hard to find any intention that the owners intended to part
with their ownership while the cotton lay at Felter's plantation.
Added to this is, we think, a very significant circumstance.
The contract shows that a portion of.the cotton was not in
a condition for delivery. True, it was relatively but a small
portion, sufficient, as found by the court, to make about
twenty bales. But, as we have noticed, the contract was
entire. It was for all the crops. The purchaser was under
no obligation to take less than the whole. The subject of
the contract was baled cotton, and Lobdell bargained for
that. Nothing in the contract, indeed, shows clearly how
much of the cotton was unginned, and how much was unbaled, but it reveals that a portion was, and certain it is it
was considered essential that all which had not been ginned
and baled and bagged, should be put into that condition before the vendee was required to accept it. And this the
sellers were required to do. So much is clearly implied in
the contract. If, then, it be, as asserted in Mr. Blackburn's
first rule, that when anything remains to be done by the
seller for the purpose of putting the goods into that state in
which the purchaser is bound to accept them, or, in other
words, into a deliverable condition, the property does not
pass, it cannot be held that there was any intention of Gordon, or his principals, to transmit to Lobdell the ownership
of the cotton before its delivery and before the payment of
its stipulated price. We do not deny that a person may buy
chattels in an unfinished condition and acquire the right of
Supra.
VOL. XXI.

13

TiE ELGEE COTTON OASES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.-Oontract with Lobdell considered.

property in them, though possession be retained by the vendor, in order that he may fit them for delivery. But in
such a case the intention to pass the ownership by the contract can.not be left in doubt. The presumption is against
such an intention.
It should also be noticed that Lobdell undertook by the
contract to furnish the necessary bagging, rope, and twine
to put the unginned and unbaled cotton in a deliverable
state. Obviously this was to be done before the sellers were
bound to deliver. It was, therefore, a condition precedent
upon which the vendee's right depended. With this condition there was no compliance, and thus neither the vendors
nor the vendee did all that it was contemplated and agreed
they should do preparatory to the acceptance of the goods, or
to bring the cotton to the condition in which it was understood it should be to entitle the sellers to the price stipulated. On the other side it has been argued with much earnest-ness, that the provision in the contract, the cotton from the
date thereof should be at the risk of Lobdell, exhibits an
intention of the parties that the property should pass. It
must be admitted that when a contract of sale has transmaitted the property in its subject to the buyer, the law determines, in the absence of agree*ment to the contrary, that
the risk of loss belongs to him. This is a consequence of
his ownership, though undoubtedly the property may be in
one and the risk in another. But it needs no agreement
that the buyer shall take the risk, if it is intended the ownership shall pass to him. Hence the stipulation that the
cotton should be at the risk of Lobdell after the date of the
contract, instead of showing an intention of the parties that
'the right of property should pass to him, seems rather to
indicate a purpose that the ownership should remain unchnged. Else why introduce a provision totally unnecessary ? Such was the inference drawn from the introduction
of a similar clause in a contract considered in Martineau v.
Kitching.* There it was stipulated that the goods should
& Law fReports, 7 Q. B. 436.

Oct. 1874.]

THE ELGEE COTTON OASES.

Opinion of the court.-Contract with Lobdell considered.

*

remain at the risk of the sellers, and Lord Cockburn asked
"if the property in the goods had not passed to the buyers
why it was said the goods should remain at the risk of the
sellers?" adding further, "what would be the necessity,
what would be the object and purpose of such a stipulation
if the property still remained in them ? Of course it would
be at their risk." It may be asked hbat then was the object
of stipulating that the cotton should be at Lobdell's risk if it
was not intended to evidence a transmission of the title?
No doubt some purpose existed, and we think it may be
found in the circumstances in which the parties stood when
they contracted. The cotton was in a disturbed region of
the country. It was in danger of destruction by.the Confederate forces, and of capture by the United States forces.
The sellers undertook to carry and deliver it at the landing
at Fort Adams. Such a delivery might be rendered impossible by the vicissitudes of the war, and hence it was a reasonable provision that Lobdell should bear the risk, that the
sellers should not be answerable in damages in case of Confederate burning or Federal capture. To us this is a sufficient explanation of the assumption of the risk by Lobdell,
without regarding it as a mutual recognition of a change of
ownership.
It is hardly necessary to add that the receipt of $30 "in
order to confirm the contract," can have no bearing upon
the question whether the property passed. The confirmation of the contract and its effect are distinct matters. Whatever may have been thought by some old writers respecting
the effect in the transmission of property, of giving and receiving earnest-money, it is now considered of no importance, or of the smallest importance. The subject is discussed in Benjamin on Sales,* and the conclusion is reached
that the true legal effect of earnest is simply to afford conclusive evidence that a bargain has been actually completed,
with mutual intention that it should be binding on both;
and that the inquiry whether the property has passed in
* Second edition, pages 260-2.

THE ELGEE COTTON CASES.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.-Contract with AMrs. Nutt considered.

such cases is to be tested not by the fact that earnest is given,
but by the true nature of the contract concluded by giving
the earnest. The author says further, "o
case has been
found in the books in which the giving of earnest has been
held to pass the property in the subject-matter of the sale,
where the completed bargain, if proved in writing, or in
any other sufficient manner, would not equally have altered
the property."
In our judgment, therefore, the contract of July 31st;
1863, must be regarded as only an agreement to sell, and
not as effecting a transfer of the ownership. It left the
property in Elgee, where it was before.
We are the better satisfied with this conclusion because it
works substantial justice, and because it accords with what
appears to have been the subsequent understanding of the
parties. The bargain was for cash, yet no steps were taken
to consummate it until after the cotton was seized in April,
1864. Never indeed. No tender of the price was made,
the cotton was neither weighed, delivered, nor received, and,
throughout, both parties appear to have treated the agreement as merely executory.
The result of what we have said is that neither Lobdell,
nor Woodruff & Co., who claim under him, had any such
ownership of the cotton as to entitle them or either of them
to sue in the Court of Claims for its proceeds.

-

We come next to the claim of Mrs. NTutt, executrix of
Haller Nutt, deceased. A very vigorous argument has been
made to us in support of this claim, but we think it cannot
be sustained. Assuming that Nutt's contract with Elgee,
made in October, 1863, was not illegal, that it was not in violation of the noii-intercourse laws, it still was not such a
contract as passed the property in the cotton. The finding
of the court is, that in October, 1863, Truman Holmes, as
the agent of Dr. Nutt, contracted with Elgee .for the sale
from him of so much of the 2100 bales of cotton stowed at
Felter's plantation as lie (Holmes) should get out in safety
to a market, for the price of £15 per bale, to be paid in Liver-

Oct. 1874.]

T11E ELGEE COTTON

CASES.

Opinion of the court.-All the contracts executory.

pool. The risk of the cotton till got out to be on Mr. Elgee.
That this was but an executory contract is very plain. Its
subject was indefinite. It was not necessarily the 2100
bales; not certainly any of them. It was simply so much
of them as Holmes should get out in safety to a market.
The agreement contemplated that he might never get out
ally. If so nothing was agreed to be sold. In fact he never
did get out a bale. Whatever else may be dispensed with,
it is certain that there call be no sale of personal chattels
without a specific identification of the thing sold. Which
of the whole number of bales could the purchaser say was
his? For which of them could he have been compelled to
pay? And there is no evidence that Holmes ever received
the cotton or any part of it, or asserted any possession,
though the sale was on credit, and if the property was his
principal's he was entitled to remove it at once to a market.
Our attention has been called to the letter dated Octobei
8th, 1863, and addressed by Elgee to Holmes afterwards,
which it is argued was itself a sale.* This letter was not found
by the court to have been the contract between the parties.
It refers to the former agreement, and evidently it was intended as a direction where to pay the price of the cotton,
if any should be got out, and if any purchase-money should
become due. It had no other purpose. It was not even a
delivery order. Much less can it be regarded as a bill of
sale. And there is no finding that it was accepted. The
only contract, therefore, respecting the sale of the cotton to
Holmes upon which the executrix of Dr. Nutt can rely, is
that found by the court to have been made; a contract for
the sale of so much of the 2100 bales as Holmes should get
out in safety to a market, and that contract passed no property in the cotton.
This disposes of the whole case. The property in the
cotton was in Elgee, and neither of the contracts proved divested him of his ownership. The result is that his per* See the letter, supra, p. 18.-REP.

FRETZ -0. STOVER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

sonal representatives are entitled to a judgment for the entire
proceeds of the cotton held in trust for the owner.
and the record is remitted with instructions to dismiss the petitions of Woodruff & Co., and
Mrs. Nutt, executrix, and to enter a judgment in favor of
the personal representatives of Elgee, for the sum found in
the treasury, the net proceeds of the sale of cotton.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

Dissenting, Justices BRADLEY and HUNT.

FRETZ V. STOVER.
1. The point cannot be first made in this court that no replication has been
made to an answer in chancery, and, therefore, that the answer is to be
taken as conclusively true in all points. If such a point is meant to be
insisted on here, it should have been made in the court below.
2. New defences, i. e., defences not made in an answer to the original bill,
cannot be first set up in an answer to a bill of reviver. Such bill puts in
issue nothing but the character of the new party brought in.
3. After the late rebellion broke out, debtors in the rebellious States had no
right to pay to the agents or trustees of their creditors in the loyal
States, debts due to these last in any currency other than legal currency
of the United States. Payment in Confederate notes or in Virginia
bank notes (security for whose payment was Confederate bonds, and
which notes like the bonds themselves never, after the rebellion broke
out, were safe, and before it closed had become worthless), held to have
been no payment, and the debtor charged de novo.
APPEAL from the District Court for the Eastern District
of Virginia; the case being thus:

For several years prior to February 25th, 1861, a litigation had been waged by Fretz and wife, residents of Pennsylvania, against Stover, a resident of Fauquier County,
Virginia; a certain Chilton, a lawyer in embarrassed.circumstances, and resident in the same county, being the
counsel of the former. The suit was for property claimed
by the wife. On the said 25th of February, 1861, a corn-

