Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V.

MAGWIRE.

Syllabus.

was no judgment found in the record, and an inspection of it
showed that while the judgment of the Supreme Court of
the Territory merely in terms affirmed the judgment of the
District Court, the judgment of the District Court was not
in the record, and, in fact, no judgment was to be found in
the record which we could either reverse or affirm.
Under these circumstances, as the defendants in error had
made no objection, by motion to dismiss the writ, or otherwise, before the hearing, the court heard the argument, and
of its own motion gave the plaintifs time to perfect the
record by certiorari, if it could be done. The proper judgment has since been certified to this court, and it is now
AFFIRMED.

BAILEY V. MAGWIRE, COLLECTOR.
1. A claim of exemption from county and municipal t--ation ca:-not be
supported, any more than a claim from State taxation, except upon language so strong as that, fairly interpreted, no room is left for controversy. No presumption can be made in favor of the exemption ; and
if there be reasonable doubt, the doubt is to be solved in favor of the
State.
2. The fact that in an act amending the charter of a railroad corporation
special provision is made for ascertaining the taxes to become due by
the corporation to the State (nothing being said about the manner of
ascertaining other taxes), is not of itself enough to-work an exemption
of the property of the corporation from all taxation not levied for State
purposes. Silence, in regard to such other taxes, cannot be construed
as a waiver of the right of the State to levy them. There must be
something said affirmatively, and which is explicit enough to show
clearly that the legislature intended to relieve the corporation from
this part of the burdens borne by other real and personal property,
before such an act shall amount to a contract not to levy them.
3. A provision in such an act, prescribing a mode for ascertaining the tax
due the State, by which provision the president of the company is required to furnish to the auditor of the State a statement, under oath, of
the actual cash value of the property to be taxed, on which the company
is directed to pay the tax due the State, within a certain time, to the
treasurer, under penalties, does not amount to a contrct, that the State
will not pass any law to assess the property of the company for taxation
for State purp-zes in a different manner.

BAILEY V.

IMAGWIRE.

[Sup. Cr.

Statement of the case.
4. But if a particular mode has been prescribed for assessing the property
of a particular company that mode should be followed, until, in some
way, a different mode is prescribed.
5. Whether or not an act prescribing such particular mode has been impliedly repealed by a general revenue act, not in terms repealing it,
is a matter peculiarly within the province of the highest courts of the
State, whose acts are the subjects of the question, to decide. And when
such courts have decided the question, their decision is controlling.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District
of Missouri.
Bailey and others, foreign stockholders, in the Pacific
Railroad Company, a corporation existing and organized
under difterent special acts of the State of Missouri, filed a
bill in the court below against a certain Magwire, collector
of State, county, school, and city taxes for the county and
city of St. Louis, Missouri, to enjoin his collection of such
taxes assessed for the year 1869, on the said railroad company under the general tax law of the State; the ground
of the application being that by acts of the Missouri legislature governing the said railroad company, and which acts,
as the company asserted, made a co utract with it, the company1st. Was not liable for any county, school, or city taxes
at all.
2d. Was not liable for State taxes under the act in virtue
of which they had been assessed, but was liable for them
only under another act; a special act relating to itself, and
prescribing a manner for assessment, &c., different from the
manner which had here been followed.

The case was thus:
The charter of the Pacific Railroad Company was granted
in 1849, and counties, cities, and towns along its line were
authorized to subscribe to it; but it contained no provision
exempting its property from taxation.*
By an act of 1851, amendatory of the charter,t it was
enacted that the capital stock, together with all their works
*Session

Acts of 184t9, p. 219.

t "Id. 1851, p. 271.

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V.

MAGWIRE.

Statement of the case.

and other property, and all profits which should arise from
the same should be vested in the respective shareholders
of the company forever, in proportion to their respective
shares, and that the same should be deemed personal estate
and be exempt from all public charge or tax whatsoever, for the
term of five years from the passage of the act. This exemption, of course, would have expired in 1856.
At the time of the passage of this act, as before and since,
there existed in Missouri, under its public statutes, a general scheme of taxation of all property in the State; this
scheme embracing all property of corporations over and
above their capital stock, as well as the property of citizens
in the counties where it was situated..
In this state of things, the exemption given by the act of
1851 not having yet expired, the legislature of Missouri, on
the 25th of December, 1852, passed another act amendatory
of the charter. This act lent its credit to the company by
issuing to it State bonds to the amount of $1,000,000, to be
used after the expenditure of a like sum raised"from other
sources; and it gave to the company a large body of lands
which Congress hhd given to the State.
By a twelfth section it made the following enactment as
to taxation :
"SECTION 12. The said Pacific Railroad shall be exempt from
taxation until the same shall be completed, opened, and in operation, and shall declare a dividend, when the road-bed, buildings,
machinery, engines, cars, and other'property of such -completed
road, at the actual cash value thereof, shall be subject to taxation
at the rate assessed by the State on other real and personalproperty
of like value.
"And for the purpose of ascertaining the value of the same, it
shall be the duty of the president of said company, on the first
day of February in each year, after such road is completed,
opened, and put in operation, and declares a dividend, to furniah
to the auditor of the State a statement under his oath, of the
actual value of the i'oad-bcd, buildings, machinery, engines, cars.
and other property appertaining to such completed road; and
from said statement, the auditor shall charge said company with

BAILEY V. MAGWIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
.

a

the amount appearing to be due to the State, according to the
statement furnished by the president of the company.
"And in case said company shall fail to pay into the State
treasury, within thirty days after the first day of December in
each year, the amount charged against said company as aforesaid, said company shall forfeit and pay to the State of Missouri, in addition to the sum with which sqid company may
stand charged by the auditor, ten per cent. per month, after the
expiration of said thirty days, on the amount charged to said
company; which sum charged against said company, together
with the ten per cent. per month hereinbefore specified, may be
recovered in the name of the State of Missouri, by civil action,
in any court of competent jurisdiction; and should the president
of said company fail to make Qut and furnish to the auditor of
the State a statement as herein required, said company shall
forfeit and pay to the State $10,000 for such failure, which may
be recovered in the name of the State of Missouri, in any court
of competent jurisdiction.
"Provided, That if said company shall fail for the period of
two years after said roads respectively shall be completed and
put in operation to declare a dividend, then the said company
shall no longer be exempt from the payment of the said tax,
nor from the forfeitures and penalties in this section imposed."
This act of 1852 was accepted by the company, and the
rights given by the act of 1851 were thus surrendered.
The road was completed in April, 1866; and after April,
1868, and in each year since that time-the company not
having yet made any dividend-the president of, the company made returns of its taxable property in the manner
required by the twelfth section of the act of 1852; but not
in any other manner.
At the time when the road was completed $3,614,500 of
stock had been subscribed; of which $2,500,000 had been
subscribed by the counties and towns along the line of it.
In 1866 the legislature of Missouri passed an act relating
to the collection of revenue generally throughout the State.
The mode prescribed for ascertaining the value of property
of corporations generally, was different from that prescribed
by the twelfth section of the act of 1852, for ascertaining

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V.

MAGWIRE.

Statement of the case.

the value of the property of the Pacific Railroad. But the
act of 1866 did not in terms nor by any plain implication repeal the twelfth section of the act of 1852. Whether it did
so by any kind of implication was a question that came before the Supreme Court of Missouri, A.D. 1873, in The Paefic Railroad Company v. Cass County,* in which case the
court decided that the act of 1866 did not repeal the said
twelfth section in any way.
In August, 1871, this decigion not then having been made
bythe said Supreme Court, the assessors for St. Louis County,
acting under the provisions of the act of 1866, assessed a tax for
State, county, school, and city purposes on the property of
the Pacific Railroad Company, and seized upon its property,
advertising it for sale. Thereupon the present bill was filed;
by which various foreign stockholders in the company-the
company itself declining to act, and remaining passivesought to enjoin the collection of the tax.
Its positions, of course, were:
1st. That the twelfth section of the act of 1852, respecting
the taxation of the road, was and remained a contract betweein the State of Missouri and the railroad company; that
it specifically provided for the whole subject of the taxation of
the road, and that in virtue of it the geileral revenuelaws
of the State were not intended to and (lid not apply to this
particular company.
2d. That the said section accordingly exempted the company from taxation for county, school, and all other purposes
except those mentioned in it.
3d. That if this were not all so, thus broadly stated, and
if the section were not a contract as to all taxes, and did
not, as such contract, furnish the only authority and rule by
which this particular company was to be taxed, yet that
until repealed it was the law governing the subject of taxation for State purposes; that, as was shown by the decision in the Pacific Railroad Company v. Cass County, it had
never yet been repealed, and therefore that certainly, as
* 53 Missouri, 26.

BAILEY V. MAGWIRE.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

to the taxes for State purposes, the collector was to be enjoined.
The positions of the collector, on the other hand, were1st. That after the time limited in the twelfth sectionthat is to say, as things turned out, after April, 1868-the
property of the railroad company became subject to taxation,
as any other property in the State, to State, county, municipal, and school taxation, and through any mode which the
legislature of the State might see fit to prescribe.
2d. That the provisions of the said twelfth section constituted no contract in favor of the company as against the
right of the State (after the time had elapsed during which
the company was to be exempt from taxation) to provide by
law for the taxation of the property of the company in any
manner it should see fit, and for the general purposes for
which any other property in the State was subjected to taxation; and finally,
3d. That in point of fact the said twelfth section had been
repealed, impliedly, by the general purpose of the act of
1866, so that even as to taxation for State purposes, it no
longer applied.
The court below sustained the defendant in everything
excepting as to city taxes (which, for reasons not necessary
here to be stated, it deemed illegally laid); decreeing, of
course, that the defendant might lawfully collect not only
the county and school taxes, as he proposed to do, but also,
in the same way, the State taxes. The bill to enjoin him
from so doing was accordingly dismissed, and from the decree dismissing it this appeal was taken.
It may be well enough to mention that in a ease which
was in effect one between these same parties, and lately
before this court, it had been decided that the twelfth section of the act of 1852 created a contract between the parties,
exempting the railroad from taxation until it was completed,
and for two years afterwards, if it did not pay a dividend
before the expiration of these two years.*
Pacific Railroad v. Magwire, 20 Wallace, 36.

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V.

MAGWIRE.

Argument against the right to tax generally.

Messrs. James Baker and 6. F. -dmunds, for the stockholders, appellants:

I. It has been already decided by this court that the twelfth
section, under consideration, makes a "contract" between
the State of Missouri and the railroad company, that the
company should be exempt by it from all taxation, until the
road was completed and a dividend paid, or until two years
after its completion. The two years having passed, the only
question now to be considered, under the first of the points
raised by the case, is as to the extent to which the road may
be taxed, and the manner of taxation. What is.the extent
of that contract ?
The language of the act, leaving out such words as do not
affect the meaning, so far as this question is concerned, is:
"The Pacific Railroad shall be exempt from taxation until
the same shall be completed and in operation, and shall declare
a dividend, when it shall be subject to taxation at the
by the State on oth;erproperty of like value."

RATE

assessed

The taxation to which the road is to be subject, after
the happening of the events mentioned, is to be at a certain rate, that is, at the rate assessed by the State on other
real and personal property of like value. No other or
greater rate is authorized, nor is any other taxation than
that provided by the act, contemplated. It is not a mere
declaration, that after the payment of a dividend the property shall be subject to taxation in the manner and at the
rate specified. The language employed is different. The
property is first declared to be exempt from all taxation.
This is to continue until the road is completed and declares
a dividend, after which it is to be subject to a specified kind
ahd amount of 'taxation. Does not this sentence, taken
together, preclude the idea of any other or greater taxation ?
Is it not plain that the exemption is to continue as to all
taxations except that particularly specified ?" It is not said
that after these things take place it shall be no longer exempt. There are no negative words used. Were it not for
the language which restores it, the total exemption would

BAILEY V. MAGWIRE.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument against the right to tax generally.

still continue. The limitation of the time of the total exemption and of the amount of the subsequent taxation are
obviously one sentence, and must be taken together. The
clause should not be divided into separate and distinct subjects, so that it may be argued that the exemption granted
is to cease when a dividend is declared, and by the process
of division and argument, a new subject of the remdinder of
the sentence made, which shall provide what shall take place
afterwards. The whole must be taken together, the latter
part as limiting or qualifying the former. The extent and
manner of. subsequent taxation provided for is as much a
limitation of the exempting words as is the completion of
the road and the payment of a dividend.
That the whole subject of the future taxation of this road
was intended to be provided for, appears by an examination of the whole section. The mode of assessing and collecting the tax mentioned is specifically provided with great
particularity. A return of the property is to be made.
The character of the return, the kinds of property to be returned, the person by whom, and the officer to whom, and
the duties of the officer in charging the taxes, and of the
officer who is to collect the same, and many other partienlars are specifically set out. The tax is to be paid to the
State treasurer. 1No mention is made anywhere in the act
of any other taxation for county or other purposes. In the
proviso, at the close of the section, it is declared "that if
said company shall fail, for the period of two years after
said roads respectively shall be completed and put in operation, to declare a dividend, that then said company shall no
longer be exempt from the payment of said tax," &c. What
tax? Clearly the tax specifically provided for after the total
exemption ceased. It is not taxes but tax. The total exemption is from taxes for all purposes, while that authorized is
a tax only, and is to be paid to the treasurer of the State, and
that is plainly the tax fiom which the company is no longer
to be exempt. Both the obvious meaning and the wellknown rule, that the last antecedent should be referred to
when the meaning is obscure, indicate that it is the tax pro-

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V. MAGWIRE.

Argument against the right to tax generally.

vided for. If it was the purpose of the act to leave the property subject to other taxation than that provided for, its
authors would have employed language in this proviso that
would embrace all taxation. The word "said," preceding
and limiting the word " tax," points to the fact that the tax
provided for is the one from which the company is no longer
to be exempt.

The case of the Raleigh and Gaston Railroad Company v.
Reid,* in this court-a, case from North Carolina-is much
in point. There an act had been passed by the legislature
of North Carolina in these words:
"The said railroad, and all engines, cars, and machinery, and
all the works of said company, together with all profits which
shall accrue from the same, and all the prolerty thereof, of
every description, shall be exempt from any public charge or
tax whatsoever, for the term of fifteen years, and thereafter the
legislature may impose a tax not exceeding twenty-five cents
per annum, on each share of the capital stock held by individuals, whenever the annual profits shall exceed eight per cent."
Subsequently to this act being passed-within the fifteen
years, and the annual profits not yet exceeding eight per
cent-the legislature of the State passed an act taxing the
franchise of the road.
This court, in construing the first act, says:
"The only way in which the property of this company could
be reached for taxation at all, was after the limitation of the
fifteen years had expired. The legislature was then at liberty
to tax the individual shares of the stockholders, whenever their
annual profits exceeded eight per cent. When a statute limits
a thing to be done in a particular mode, it includes a negative
of any other mode. It was the manifest object of the legislature
which incorporated this company to invite the investment of
capital in the enterprise of building this road, and no means
better adapted for the purpose could have bebn devised short of
total immunity from taxation. As long as the capital was unproductive it contributed nothing to the support of the govern13 Wallace, 269.

BAILEY V. MAGWIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the right to tax generally.

ment, and even after it became remunerative its contribution
was fixed by the terms of the charter, and could not, in any
event, exceed twenty-five cents on the share of stock. The impolicy of this legislation is apparent, but there is no relief to the
State, for the rights secured by the contract are protected from
invasion by the Constitution of the United States."
The North Carolina act and the one we are considering
are similar in principle. Neither in direct words negatives
the right to impose a greater or different rate of taxation.
A similar doctrine is laid down in the Nhew York and Erie
-Railroadv. Sabine,* in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania.
These cases do but afford modern application of old law;
law perfectly settled in the days of Hobart and Plowden.
The former declares that affirmatives in statutes that introduce a new rule imply a negative of all else ;t as the latter
had declared before him,t that when a statute limits a thing
to be done in a particular mode it includes a negative of any
other mode.
II. The objection to which acts giving exemption from
taxation by States are ordinarily and justly subject-the objection, namely, that by such exemptions the legislature of
a State might render the State government powerless to
carry on the a-ffairs of the State, by taking away all power
to raise funds for that purpose-does not apply here. The
State is at liberty to tax the property in question at the
same rate, and, consequently, to as great an extent as it
does other property. The exemption contended for is from
county and other local taxation. The State may appropriate
all the tax it is at liberty to impose to its own uses. Counties,
cities, and other municipalities, possess no power of taxation,
except what is granted to them by the legislature of the
State, and it may, if it sees fit, withhold such power to any
extent. They are frequently not permitted to tax all the
property the State does.
III. In the history of the Pacific Railroad, we find a sup26 Pennsylvania State, 244.
j Slade v. Drake, Hobart, 298.
: Stradling v. Morgan, Plowden, 206 b.
*

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V.

MAGWIRE.

Opinion of the court.

port to our interpretation of the twelfth section under consideration.
By the charter of the road counties, cities, and towns along
the line of the road were authorized to subscribe to the
capital stock of the company. The legislature was anxious
to secure the construction of the road; a matter of plain
importance to the State and to the public. By loans of its
bonds, conditioned on subscription, by gifts of, lands and
otherwise, the State stimulated and encouraged subscriptions by counties and towns along the road. In view of this
earnest desire to secure the construction of the road thus
manifested by the State and by the municipalities, and the
people along the line of the road; and of the fact that the
counties and incorporated towns were themselves the principal stockholders, and consequently the proprietors of the
road, and hence would have to pay the taxes themselves,
who can question that an exemption from local taxation was
proper, and was intended? The State might well claim and
reserve to itself the right to tax the road after its completion, after it was able to pay dividends on its stock, and at
the same time grant an immunity from municipal taxation.
IV. Finally. If the act in question is not a contract, and
is subject to repeal, it has in fact not been repealed. This
is adjudged in the case of The Pacific Railroad Company v.
Cass County,* by the tribunal most to be respected in a decision on the meaning of the statute. The assessment, therefore, as to State taxes, at least, is made in a wrong way.
Messrs. B. A. Hill and H. A. Clover, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is contended on behalf of the appellants that the twelfth
section of the act of 1852, provides for the whole subject of
the taxation of the road, that it exempts the road from all
taxes except State taxes, and furnishes the only rule and
authority by which these taxes can be ascertained and collected.
Supra, p. 219.
VOL. xxII.,

15

BAILEY V.

MAGWIRE.

[Sup. ot

Opinion of the court.

It was held by this court, in the case of The Paeific Railroadv. Magwire,* that this section created a contract between
the State and the railroad company, exempting the road
from taxation until it was completed, and for two years
thereafter if it did not pay a dividend before the expiration
of these two years.
The inquiry is whether this contract goes further and exempts the road, after it has been completed for two years,
from all other than State taxation, and whether the State is
precluded from providing another mode of valuation for
State taxes.
It is manifest that legislation, which it is claimed relieves
any species of property from its due proportion of the general burdens of government, should be so clear that there
can be neither reasonable doubt nor controversy about its
terms. The power to tax rests upon necessity, and is inherent in every sovereignty, and there can be no presumption
in favor of its relinquishment; While it were better for the
interest of the community that this power should on no
occasion be surrendered, this court has always held that the
legislature of a State, unrestrained by constitutional limitation, has full control over the subject, and can make a contract with a corporation to exempt its property from taxation, either in perpetuity or for a limited period of time.
If, however, on any fair construction -of the legislation, there
is a reasonable doubt whether the contract is made out, this
doubt must be solved in favor of the State. In other words,
the language used'must be of such a character as, fairly interpreted, leaves no room for controversy.
The present claim is of perpetual exemption from county
and municipal taxation, quite as essential to the wants of
the people as taxation for State purposes.
It is conceded that this exemption is not granted in express terms, but it is argued that, taking the whole section
together, it arises by necessary implication. We do not
think so. Immunity from all taxation was given until the
* 20 Wallace, 36.

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V.

MAGWIRE.

Opinion of the court.

road was built and in operation two years, but after this it is
declared "that the road-bed, buildings, machinery, engines,
cars, and other property of such completed road, at the
actual cash value thereof, shall be subject to taxation at the
rate assessed by the State on other real and personal property of like value." This is a declaration that the taxation
imposed upon the property of this company shall not be different from the taxation imposed upon other similar property, which conforms to the constitutional requirement,
"that all property subject to taxation shall be taxed in proportion to its value." If other property is charged with the
payment of county, school, and municipal taxes, why not
the property of this company? In no other way can the
principle of equality in taxation, so essential to good government, be secured. If the legislature intended to apply
a different rule in this case, it were easy to have said that
the property of this company shall be subject to taxation
"for State purposes." Instead of this it is declared to be
"subject to taxation." This obviously means general taxation-such taxation as other property of like value is subjected to. No words of limitation are used, and none can
be implied against the interests of the State. It is never for
the interest of the State to surrender the power of taxation,
and an intention to do so will not be imputed to it unless
the language employed leaves no other alternative.
The motive for temporary exemption is apparent enough,
because until the road was able to earn something taxation
might bear heavily upon it. But with the completion of
the road the reason for the exemption ceased, and it is difficult to see what inducement there was for the State to grant
perpetual immunity from local taxation. In the original
charter of the company, granted in 1849, there was no exemption from taxation. It is true the amendment of 1851
altered this so that the road was relieved of any public
charge or tax for the period of five years, but this privilege
expired in 1856, and the provisions of the act of 1852 on
this subject were more favorable to the company. Besides
receiving under this act a large body of lands, donated by

BAILEY V.

MAGWIRE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

Congress to the State to aid in the construction of railroads,
it was enabled to complete its entire road and run it for
two years without paying any tax whatever. By this means
it secured immunity from taxation until 1868, and any
further immunity in this direction, if conceded by the State,
would have been a mere gratuity. In view of all the legislation on this subject, it would seem quite clear that the
General Assembly of Missouri, while recognizing in behalf
of this road the propriety of temporary exemption from taxation, had no purpose to continue these exemptions indefinitely.
But it is said the section covers the whole subject of taxation, and as it provides for State taxes only it excludes any
other. If in the declaratory part of it the road had been
subject to " State taxation," there would have been plausibility in the argument, to say the least, that the legislature
intended to waive other taxation. But the provision is that
after the temporary exemption from all taxation ceases, by
its own limitation, the pr6perty of the road shall be subject
* to taxation" at the same rate as other property in the State.
There is no restriction in this language, nor is there any
rule of law by which a word can be imported to limit its
meaning. It is true special provision is only made for the
ascertainment and payment of a State tax, and nothing is
said about the manner of ascertaining and paying other
taxes. But this does not prove an intentional abandonment
of all but State taxes. It proves nothing more than that
the legislature thought proper, in the particular of State
taxes, to modify the general revenue law so far as this corporation is concerned, leaving the provisions of this general
law operative upon local, taxation.
It would be a hard rule to apply to the legislation of a
State to hold that the circumstance of making in the amendment to a charter of a railroad corporation special provision
for ascertaining the tax due the State (nothing being said
about the manner of ascertaining other taxes), works an exemption of the property of the corporation from all taxation
not levied for State purposes. Silence on such a subject

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V. MAGWIRE.

Opinion of the court.

cannot be construed as a waiver of the right of the State in
this regard. There must be something said which is broad
enough.to show clearly that the legislature intended to relieve the corporation from a part of the burdens borne by
other real and personal property. This was not done in this
case, and the claim of exemption from local taxation cannot
be sustained.
It is claimed, however, that even if this be so the State is
inhibited from altering the special provision on the subject
of State taxation. This provision prescribes a mode for
ascertaining the tax due the State. The president of the
company is required to furnish to the auditor a statement,
under oath, of the actual cash value of the property to be
taxed, on which the company is directed to pay the tax due
the State, within a certain time, to the treasurer, under
penalties. And the claim is that the State legislature is
prohibited from passing any law to assess the property of
the company for taxation for State purposes in a different
manner. It is not so written in the statute, nor, indeed,
can any proper inference be drawn from what is written
that the legislature intended to contract with the corporation in this particular. It would be strange indeed if it
were so, for the mode of assessment might not work well,
and yet, if it formed the subject of a contract, it could not
be changed. The principal thing in which the State and
company were interested was the actual cash value of the
property to be charged. This value was the basis of taxation, and it could not be a matter of moment how it was
fixed, provided it were done correctly. In this result both
the State and corporation had an equal interest. Both were
interested in the means adopted only so far as they were
efficient to secure the contemplated object. The exigency
of the State required the revenue on the basis of actual
value, and this, it is to be presumed, the corporation was
willing to accord. At any rate it was the duty of the State,
in justice to other property-owners, to use the appropriate
means to ascertain this value. The ordinary method of
doing this is by the instrumentality of officers appointed for

BAILEY V.

MAGWIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the purpose, but the State asked the railroad, through its
president, to make the valuation, to which the corporation
assented. This way of reaching the result was less expensive to the State, but more expensive to the corporation
than the usual mode in which taxes are assessed. The president of the company could not make a true valuation without the expenditure of time and labor, and this repeated,
year by. year, as values of property constantly fluctuate.
There is no presumption that he would not do it, conscientiously, according to his best judgment, but still it was a
favor to the State for him to do it at all, and certainly no
one can contend that a State cannot waive at any time a
provision for its own benefit. Apart from this view of the
subject, the provision in question was simply a mode for
ascertaining the true value of the property to be taxed, and
if, on trial, it should turn out not to be the best mode for
the purpose, surely the legislature has a right to change it
and adopt another. This no one will question, unless the
legislature has surrendered its power over the subject by
contract, which, in our opinion, has not been done in this
case.
But, until the legislature appoints another mode for assessing and collecting the revenue due the State from this
corporation, it must proceed in conformity with the provisions contained in the act of 1852.
The whole subject we have discussed recently came before the Supreme Court of Missouri in the case of The Pacific Railroad Company v. Cass County. , The assessor of Cass
County had levied taxes for both State and county purposes
on the property of the company in the county, and the question was whether these levies were authorized. The court
held that the taxes for county purposes were rightfully
assessed, under the general revenue laws, but that the taxes
for State purposes were unauthorized, because section twelve
of the act of 1852 had not been repealed either by an express
provision of a subsequent law or by necessary implication,
and being in force, State taxes could only be collected in the
vay pointed out in that section.

Oct. 1874.]

FRENCH v. HAY.
Syllabus.

As it is the peculiar province of the highest court of a
State to decide whether or not the method pursued in the
assessment and collection of taxes is in conformity with the
law of the State, this decision is controlling.
It was not made until after this suit was instituted, and,
doubtless, not promulgated until the rendition of the decree.
The assessors of St. Louis County, in this case, imposed
taxes for State, county, school, and city purposes. The bill
charged that the whole proceeding was illegal, and sought
to restrain the entire levy. On demurrer the Circuit Court
held that the city taxes were wrongfully levied, and issued
the proper order restraining them, and dismissed the bill so
far as it related to State, county, and school taxes. The
court should have included State taxes in the restraining
order. On this account the decree must be reversed and
cause remanded, with directions to enter an order enjoining
the collection of the State tax in the bill mentioned. In all
other respects the decree is right.
DECREE REVERSED AND REMANDED.

FRENCH V. HAY.
In 1859 A. lent to B., who was largely interested in an embarrassed railroad, $5000 to buy certain judgments against the road, and B. having
bought, in 1859 and the early part of 1860, judgments to the amount of
$31,000, assigned the whole of them to A., absolutely. Subsequently,
that is to say in August, 1860, A. made a transfer (so called) of them to
B., 1' upon B.'s payment of $5000, with interest from this date ;" and
gave to B. a power of attorney of the same date, authorizing him "for
me and in'my name" to dispose of them as he might see proper. Held,
1st. That the so-called transfer was executory, amounting only to an offer
that if B. would pay the $5000, B. should become owner of the judgments; and that B. having, in May, 1861, gone South and joined the
rebels there, and not come back till 1865, could not in 1868 file a bill,
and on an allegation that A. had collected the judgments, claim the proceeds, less the $5000 and interest.
2d. That a bill making such ai allegation and such a claim was demur-

