464

HUNNEWELL V. CASS COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

by the company under sanction of the act of Congress on
that subject, and that the mortgage conveys the legal title
out of the United States, so that her rights can no longer
be interposed to protect them from taxation.
It is not necessary to go into the merely technical question whether the legal title passed from the United States
by virtue of that mortgage and the act of Congress which
authorized it, nor whether, if it ever becomes necessary to
foreclose that mbrtgage, the rights of the United States in
the laud would be divested by the proceeding, because we
are satisfied that the United States, until she conveys them
by patent or otherwise, has an interest, whether it be legal
or equitable, which the State of Nebraska is not at liberty
to divest Jby the exercise of the right of taxation.
Under these views we are of opinion that the State had
no right to tax the lands for which the cost of surveying had
not been paid, and for which no patent had been issued;
and as the decree of the Circuit Court was made in conformity with these principles, it is
AFFIRMED.

HUNNEWELL V. CASS COUNTY.
1. Under the act of July 2d, 1864 (18 Stat. at Large, 364), which gave
to the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company every alternate section of the public lands, to the amount of ten alternate sections

per mile on each side of the road on the line thereof, but enacted in its
twenty-first section that "before any land granted by this act shall be
conveyed to the said company there shall first be paid into the Treasury
of the United States the cost of surveying, selecting, and conveying the

same by the said company," it is not clear what the "cost of conveying" is, no statute known to the court authorizing a charge or fee for
issuing a patent. Nor is it clear whether, under the terms the "cost
of selecting and conveying," the fees of $1 for each final location of one

hundred and sixty acres, given to registersand receivers by the act of
Congress of July 1st, 1864 (13 Stat. at Large, 365), is meant or not.
2. Nor under the General Statute 907, of the State of Nebraska, is it plain
what is the latest day at which by the laws of that State the right to
assess lands for taxation can be exercised for any given year.

Oct. 1874.]

HUNNEWELL V. CASS CouNTY.

465

Statement of the case.
3. In this state of uncertainty as to the exact meaning of the statutes, Federal and State, and in the absence of any decision by the State court as
to the meaning of the State statute, and of any long and well-settled
practice under it, this court refused to enjoin county officers in Nebraska
from levying a tax laid under State authority, on lands granted by Congress to a railroad company, in a case where the ground on which the
prayer for injunction was based was that the registers' and receivers' fees,
which the complainant assumed to be the "1costs of selecting and conveying," mentioned in the act of Congress, had not been paid until a
few days after the time when the complainant, on his construction of
the act of the State above mentioned, assumed was the last day on which
taxes could be laid, and when all those claims of the Federal government
were satisfied before half the current year for which the taxes were
levied had expired, and patents for the lands had issued, before the bill
praying the injunction was filed.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Nebraska.
Hunnewell, for himself and others, citizens, all, of States
other than Nebraska, filed a bill in the court below against
Cass and other counties of the State of Nebraska, their
treasurers, and the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad
Company, to obtail an injunction on the said treasurers, to
prevent their collecting State and county taxes which had
been levied on certain lands granted to the said company by
an act of Congress. He alleged himself and the others to
be stockholders in the company; that the lands on which
the taxes had been assessed were not liable to taxation
under State authority; that the company was about to pay
these taxes notwithstanding that he had made a protest and
remonstrance against their so doing. The bill prayed relief
as above said by injunction.
The case, divested of parts of it disposed of in principle
by the case of Railroad 0ompan, v. MeShane, just reported,
and therefore not necessary to be presented, was thus :*
* In this case, as in Railroad Co. v. McShane, referred to in the text, the
objection was taken that the lands were or might become, within three years
from the completion of -the road (A D. 1872), subject to the pre-emption
clause of the 3d section of the original act of 1862, supra, p. 445; the railroad
company assuming that the grant to it, because it was found in the act of
1864 (which act was confessedly "amendatory" of the act of 1862), was.
80
VOL. xxir.

HIUNNEWELL V. CASS

COUNTY.

[Sup. C

Statement of the case.

An act of Congress, approved July 2d, 1864,* by which
the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company, a
corporation created by the laws of Iowa, was authorized to
extend its road through Nebraska, from a point on the Missouri River to another point on the Pacific railroad, so as to
connect with it, thus enacted:
"SECTION 19. That for the purpose of aiding in the construction of said road, there be and hereby is granted to the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company, every alternate
section of public land, .. .designated by odd numbers, to the
amount of ten alternate sections per mile on each side of the said
road, on the line thereof, and not sold, reserved, or otherwise
disposed of by the United States, and to which a pre-emption
or homestead claim may not have attached at the time the line
of said road is definitely fixed."

By a subsequent section, whenever the company had completed twenty consecutive miles of its road, in a manner
prescribed, the President of the United States was to appoint commissioners to examine and report to him relative
thereto; and if it should appear to him that twenty miles
of the road had been properly completed, then, upon certificate of said commissioners to that effect, patents were to
issue conveying the right and title to the lands to the company on each side of said road as far as the same was completed. And such examination, report, and conveyance by
patents, was to continue from time to time, in like manner,
until the road should be completed.
The act went on in its twenty-first section thus:
"SEcT1ON 21. Before any land granted by this act shall be
conveyed to the said company .. .there shall first be paid
into the Treasury of the United States the cost of surveying, select.ing, and tonveying the same by the said company, . . . which
governed by that clause. The court below, however, held that proposition
to be one not sound. After the decision in Railroad Co. v. McShane, the
question whether it was or not became, of course, of no importance, since
if it were so governed, the fact would, under the decision there made, be
no ground of exemption.
* 13 Stat.:t Large, 364.

Oct. 1874.]

HUNNEWELL V. CASS COUNTY.
Statement of the case.

amount shall, without further appropriation, stand to the credit
of the proper account, to be used by the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, for the prosecution of the survey of public
lands along the line of said road."
The road of the Burlington and Missouri company was
completed for the purpose of this case, we may consider, in
the spring of 1872. In that year, the first day of April fell
oil Monday.
The costs of surveying the lands which the county treasurers had sought to tax, were paid on the seventh day of
M\arch; and the fees of the register and receiver of the ]and
office-which fees the complainants alleyed to be the "cost" of
"selecting and conveying," which, with the cost of surveying,
the above-quoted twenty-first section enacted should be paid into the
treasury, "before any land granted by the act should be conveyed
to the company,"--were not paid until the 19th and 20th of
April, which days, as happened in 1872, were respectively
the third Friday and Saturday of the month; the third Monday (as the month came in on Monday) having been the 15th.
The complainants now, citing a statute of Nebraska, which
they stated governed the subject, alleged that the time to
which all assessment, for taxation of lands in the State related, was fixed by the statute on the first day of March, in
each year; and that if the lands were not taxable on that
day, they were not taxable at all for that year; that if this
were not true, yet that no land could be taxed for any year
which was not liable to taxation when the power of certain
"precinct assessors," mentioned in the statute, expired after
their meeting on the first HJionday of April (prescribed by
the statute), for the purpose of equalizing the assessment,
or, at the latest, after the session bf the county commissioners which the statute fixed for the third Monday of
April, and which third Monday in April, 1872, was, as
already stated, Monday the fifteenth of the month.
The facts of the case and the positions just stated involved,
therefore, two questions:
1. Whether under the statutes of Nebraska the assessmcit, &c., had been in time ?

HUNNEWELL V. CASS

COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

2. Whether the fees of the register and receiver, which
had been paid on the third Friday and Saturday (the 19th
and 20th) of April, were the "costs" of' "selecting and conveying the lands" which the twenty-first section of the act
of Congress enacted should, with the cost of surveying, be
paid before the lands should be conveyed to the company?
As to the first point, the only statute of Nebraska referred
to by counsel on either side, or which was suggested from
any quarter as bearing on the question, was one, as follows:
709.
"SECTION 26. The precinct assessors of each county shall
meet at the office of the county clerk, on the first Monday of
April of each year, for the purpose of equalizing the assessments, and shall return their lists to the county clerk on or before the second Monday of the same month.
"SE cIoN 27. The county commissioners of each county shall
constitute a board of equalization for the county, and said
board, or any two of them, shall hold a session of at least three
days, at the county seat, commencing on the third Monday of
April in each year, fbr the purpose of equalizing and correcting
the assessment roll in their county."
"GENERAL

STATUTE

By section twenty-eight the county clerk is directed to
make out and transmit to the State auditor an abstract of
these matters, as settled by the board of county commissioners, on or before the first Monday of May. On the
fourth Monday in May the governor, State auditor, and
treasurer are to meet as a State board of equalization, and
to decide upon the rate of the State tax, State school tax,
and sinking fund tax for the current year.
The auditor is then to transmit this result to the county
clerks on or before the second Monday in June, and on the
first Monday in July the county commissioners are required
to meet and levy the necessary taxes for the current year.
By section fifty-two it is declared that taxes upon real
property shall be.a perpetual lien thereupon, commencing
from the 1st day of March of the current year, against all
persons and bodies corporate, except the United States and
the State of Nebraska.

Oct. 1874.]

HUNNEWELL V. CASS COUNTY.
Statement of the case.

By section fifteen all personal property is to be listed, assessed, and taxed in the county where the owner resides on
the 1st day of March, but if the owner resides out of the
State it is to be listed and taxed where it may be at the time
of listing.
As to the second matter, whether the fees~of the registers
and receivers were or were not "costs of selecting and conveying the lands," within the meaning of the twenty-first
section, the act of Congress, the only statute cited on either
side, was one of July 1st, 1864, as follows :*
"An Act to regulate the compensation of registers and receivers of
the land offices in the several States and Territories,in the location of lands by States and corporations under grants from
Congress.
"In the location of lands by States and corporations, under
grants from Congress for railroads and other purposes, . . ; the
registers and receivers of the land offices of the several States and
Territories in the districts where such lands may be located, for
their services therein shall be entitled to receive'a fee of 81 for
each final location of one hundred and sixty acres, to be paid by
the State or corporation making such location, the same to be
accounted for in the same manner as fees and commissions on
warrants and pre-emption locations, with limitations as to maximum of salaryprescribedby existing laws, in accordance with such
instructions as shall be given by the Commissioner o~f the General Land Office."
The court below dismissed the bill.

It said in its opinion:

"The fees to the registers and xeceivers of the local land
offices, under the act of July 1st, 1864, are not embraced within
those required to be paid by the twenty-first section of the act
of 1864. These are fees for 'location,' not for 'selecting' and
'conveying' the land.
"But again, it may be remarked that the cost of surveying
was paid in time to make the lands taxable; the work of selecting the lands was done by the company without, so far as
shown, any expense to the government, and for the cost of con* 13 Stat. at Large, 335.

HUNNEWELL V.

CASS OOUNTY.

[sup. Cr.

Argument in favor of the exemption from taxation.

veying it does not appear that the government makes or has
any claim."

From the decree of dismissal the complainants
took this
appeal.
,Mr. J. X. Woolworth, for the appellants:
I. In Railway Company v. Prescott,* this court held, that
until the payment by the company of costs of "surveying,
seleeting, and conveying" the lands, they were not liable to
taxation. Though another point in that case has been questioned as not perhaps perfectly well considered,t this point
has been received by all as well founded.
Now, we say that, in this case, those costs have not been
paid.
1. Our position is that the fees of the register and receiver
were the "costs of selecting and conveying" the lands mentioned in the twenty-first section of the act of Congress, because:

a. The statutes nowhere provide for the payment of any
other expenses connected with the selection and conveyance
of lands granted to railroads.
b. The surplus, after paying those officers the maximum
allowed them, is turned into the General Laud Office, to de.
fray the expenses of further surveys.
c.While the term used in one act is "location," and in
another " selection," each when applied to railroad grants
means the same thing. The act making a grant to a railroad company, as in that to this company, always locates the
grant and selects or designates the lands; but by reason of
conflict with pre-emption and homestead rights, and other
grants, a process, more or less complicated, is gone through
with, which is properly described by either term.
2. The costs of patentin'g the lands were certainly "costs
of conveying" them, none of which, of course, were paid
until after the other costs.
* 16 Wallace, 603.
j"On that point it had now been just overruled. See preceding case..-.-EP.

Oct. 1874.]

EUNNEWELL

V. CASS COUNTY.

471

Argument in favor of the exemption from taxation.

3. The revenue law of Nebraska. fixes no day at which
the fiscal year begins, nor does it, in terms, fix a day at
which the owner of real estate becomes taxable in respect
thereof. But section fifty-two of the General Statute 709,
designating the 1st of March at which taxes become a lien,
does impliedly fix that as the day at which the owner is
liable for taxes thereon. If on that day lands are not tax-

able, they are not so at all for that year. Now, on the Ist
of March, 1872, this company was not taxable in respect of
these lands.
4. But if this be not so, certainly the process of assessment having been concluded on the first Monday in April
(which in 1872 was the first of the month), after which day
the lands were selected, and all the costs of selection and
conveyance paid, these lands were not taxable to this company for that year.
a. The assessment of property is the essential prerequisite
to a valid levy of taxes thereon.*
b. The rule is general and imperative, that assessments
can be made only when and as the statute prescribes.t
c. And the assessment must be made within the time
limited therefor.1
d. Property not taxable at the day the assessment closes,
is not taxable at all.ยง

HI. In _ailway Company v. Prescott, this court says:
",
While we recognize the doctrine heretofore laid down, that
lands sold by the United States may be taxed before they have
parted with the legal title, by issuing a patent, it is to be understood as applicable to eases where the right to the patent is com. Parker v. Overman, 18 Howard, 137; Ferris . Coover, 10 California,
589, 137.
j- Whitney v. Thomas, 23 New York, 281, 285; Cruger v. Dougherty, 43
Id. 107, 118; The People v. Goff, 52 Id. 434, 436; Torrey v. Millbury, 21
Pickering, 64, 67.
$ Thames, &c., Co. v. Lathrop, 7 Connecticut, 555; Williamsport v. Kent,
14 Indiana, 306; The People v. Goff, 52 New York, 434; Marsh v. Chesnut,
14 Illinois, 223; Ludlow v. Willich, 1 Cincinnati, 315.
Mygatt v. Washburn, 15 New York, 316; Clark v. Norton, 3 Lansing,
484; Same Case on appeal, 49 New York, 248.

HUNMNEWELL V.

CASS COUNTY.

[Sup. (Ct.

Argument in favor of the right of taxation.

plete, and the equitable title is fully vested in the party without
anything more to be paid, or any act to be done, going to the
foundation of his right."
Even if we are wrong in insisting that the register's and
receiver's fees were to cover the costs of selecting the lands,
yet until the 19th day of April, 1872, this company had not
a complete right to a patent, nor was the equitable title fully
vested in it, because:
1. The twenty-first section of the act of Congress required
the payment of these fees before the lands could be located,
and the first step in that behalf was the certificate from the
local to the General Land Office; so that more did remain
to be paid until that day.
2. At that day, too, "an act remained to be done, going
to the foundation of the right" to the patent, namely, the
location of the lands, which act was begun when the local
land officers certified the lists made by the company's agent,
and was concluded either when the lists were made by the
commissioner or approved by the secretary.
The process of locating railroad grants is traceable in the
recitals in the lists and patents, and is as follows:
(1.) The company makes its selections, which appear on
its original lists filed in the local office.
(2.) These lists being corrected, are certified by the local
to the General Land Office.
(3.) These lists are approved successively by the commissioner and secretary, after proper examinations" and corrections made by them.
And it is not until all this process is concluded that the
right becomes fixed, for not until then is any one quarter
section definitively ascertained to be the company's. Here,
while no list was certified by the local officers before April
19th, several, we may state as a matter of fact,.were not
certified until long afterwards; some, indeed, not until after
the levy of the taxes in July.
Mr.Clinton Briggs, contra:
It is argued on the other side, that because the costs of

Oct. 1874.]

O..UNNEWELL V. CASS COUNTY.
Argument in favor of the right of taxation.

surveying (paid March 7th, 1872), and the register's and receiver's fees (paid April 19th and 20th following) were not
paid a few days earlier, the lands were not taxable.
The State law does not in terms fix the time in which
property shall be assessed. The assessment roll is to be returned to the county clerk "on or before the second Monday of April."
The board of equalization "shall hold a session of at least
three days, commencing on the third Monday of April,"
After the assessment is equalized and corrected, and before
the first Monday of May, the clerk shall make an abstract
thereof.
Taxes are to be levied on the first Monday of July.
The position of the other side is that the power of the
assessor was exhausted on the 8th of April, and of the board
on the 17th of April. According to that theory, the register's and receiver's fees were paid two days or twelve days
too late for taxation purposes. If the county officers had
control of this matter of assessment as late as April 21st,
then these lands were taxable even upon the theory set up.
It is not necessary, however, to base the right to tax these
lands upon any calculations in or out of the three, or the
eleven days. The case may well rest upon grounds less
technical.
1. We assert that the lands were taxable, say on the 1st
April, notwithstanding these fees were not yet paid.
The twenty-first section of the act of Congress provides
that before the lands shall be conveyed, "the costs of surveying, selecting, and conveying" them shall be 'paid,
"which amount shall . . . stand to the credit of the proper
account, to be used by the Commissioner of the General Land
Office for the prosecution of the surveys of the public lands along
the line of the road."
Thus all the money paid stands appropriated at the momneut of payment to the single purpose of prosecuting surveys along the line of the road.
If there were no unsurveyed lands along the line of the
road, what becomes of the money? All these lands were

474

Hu.NNEWELL

V. CASS

COUNTY.

[Sup.

at.

Argument in favor of the right of taxation.

surveyed prior to 1871. The money, therefore, could not
be used for the purpose of prosecuting surveys along the
line of the road. The intention of Congress was to make.
the companies pay for surveying the lands they were to
receive; not to reimburse the government for money already
expended oilsurveys.
it would seem that the section could have no application
to this grant. In Railway Company v. Prescott it did not appear that the lands along the line of the road had been surveyed, but the fact was otherwise as respects the Kansas
Pacific, as well as the Union Pacific; at least as to the more
westerly portions of the lines.
So, we may assert, that the section took effect as to the
lands of these two companies, but not as to this grant.
But do the words " selecting and conveying" mean acts
of the register and receiver for which they are to receive
fees? As to the selecting, it appears that this was done by
the company; and, as said by the circuit judge; "without,
so far as shown, any expense to the government."
In -Railway Company v. Prescott the stress was laid upon
the non-payment of the costs of surveying. Nothing is said
about the fees of the register and receiver.
In the case of grants, to which the section applies, the
reasons for requiring the payment of the costs of surveying are
cogent. It may be said that the lands are not fully earned
until this is done, though the road be completed and accepted. The lauds must, indeed, be surveyed before the
grant can attach to them. No one knows which the oddnumbered sections are until they are surveyed. This may
be said to be one of the things mentioned in Railway Company v. Prescont as to be done, because going to the "foun-'
dation" of the right to the lauds.
But after this payment it would seem that the equitable
title was complete, and that what follows relates only to the
evidences of the legal title; such as payment of register's
and receiver's fees, issuing and recording the patent, &c.
If these views are correct, it follows that the case does not
fall within the principles laid down in the case just cited,

Oct. 1874.]

HUNNEWELL V. CASS COUNTY.

475

Opinion of the court.

and that the twenty-first section of the act of Congress does
not contain anything to defeat the right of the State to tax
these lands. Indeed, the provisions of these sections were
intended to be a burden upon the grants; but if the construction contended for on the other side be correct, they
give the companies the most valuable franchise they can
possess, immunity from taxation.
This immunity, it is to be observed, does not exist by
reason of any statutory law, but if it exists at all it is by
virtue of judicial construction. But the ruleis firmly established that a statute granting exemptions from taxation shall
receive the narrowest construction, when the statute is in
the least degree ambiguous. Here, in the absence of any
statute, the court is asked to declare the exemption as a
matter of inference. In Christ Church Hospital v. The County
of Philadelphia,*in speaking of a tax-exemption statute this
court says:
"It belongs to a class of statutes in which the narrowest
meaning is to be taken which will fairly carry out the intent
of the legislature."
There is no implication in government grants.t
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The ground of exemption claimed by the bill in this case,
so far as not disposed of by the case of Railroad Company v.
McShane, just decided, rests upon the allegation that the
costs of selecting, surveying, and conveying the lands had
not been paid at the time of their assessment for taxes of
the year 1872, these being the taxes in dispute. In regard
to this ground, we find ourselves embarrassed by two very
troublesome questions, if their solution is essential to a decision of the case, as was assumed in the argument.
1. What is the latest period at which, by the laws of NVebraska, the right to assess lands for taxation can be exercised
for any given year? '
2. What are the costs of selecting and conveying the
* 24 Howard, 302.

t Charles River Bridge v. Warren, 11 Peters, 545.

476

HUNNEWELL V. CASS COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

lands of these railroad companies, mientioned in the third
section of the act of 1864?
As the latter question is one to be solved by the acts of
Congress or by the rules and regulations of the land department, it would seem an appropriate one for a Federal court
to answer.
But the lands granted to railroads generally by acts of
Congress are the alternate sections on each side of the road
within a certain limit, and, therefore, when the surveys are
made and the Jine of the road laid down by protraction
through these surveys, the sections and parts of sections are
at once determined; and there is no choice or selection to
be made.
It is true that by some statutes, and especially by the one
granting the lands in question, where it is found that any
odd section which would otherwise go to the company has
been disposed of or pre-empted, the company may take
other lands in place of it, and this it may select within certain distances from the road. But the selection, in such case
is made by the company, and it is difficult to imagine what
costs the government incurs in the selection which is to be
paid by the company "into the Treasury of the United
States." These lands thus selected in lieu of others also are
such small part of the whole grant that the costs of selection
could not amount to much, and the record in the case does
not enable us to determine whit particular parcels are of
this character.
The act of July 1st, 1864, enacts that the register and
receiver of the land office in which the lands granted to
States and corporations for railroad and other purposes are
located, are entitled to receive from such corporations a fee
of one dollar for each final location of one hundred and sixty
acres, to be accounted for as other fees are, with limitations
of maximum salary prescribed by law.
Counsel for the appellant insists that these are the costs
of selection referred to in the twenty-first section of the act'
of Congress of 1864. But those costs were to be paid into
the treasury, and these are to be paid to the registers and

Oct. 1874.]

HUNNEWELL

V.

CASS

COUNTY.

Opinion of the court.

receivers. Unless these officers receive fees beyond the
maximum salary allowed to them, these fees would not go
into the treasury, and certainly are not paid into it by the
company, as that act requires the costs to be paid to which
it refers.
Again, these fees are to be paid on all the lands located,
which may fairly be construed to be all the lands ascertained
to belong to the company under a grant, while the costs
spoken of in the twenty-first section are the costs of selection,
which can properly apply only to lands where a choice
or option employing exercise of judgment has been used.
Still, as these are the only costs or expenses which counsel
on either side has been able to suggest as the costs of selecting the lands within the meaning of the statute, it is unsafe
to saythey are not the costs referred to.
There is equal uncertainty about what is meant by the
costs of conveying the lands by the government. The conveyance is by patent, and we have been shown no statute
which authorizes a charge or fee for issuing the patent, nor
was counsel on either side able to refer us to any such,
though both were familiar with the operations of the land
department in the West.
Turning from this difficulty to the question of the time to
which the taxability of property, real or personal, relates
under the laws of Nebraska, we find an equal embarrassment. No decision of any court of that State has been made
on the subject. No language of the revenue laws of the
State fixes such a time expressly.
The provisions contained in General Act 907* are all the
provisions we have been able to find bearing on the question,
and they are fair from conclusive. In regard to personal
property, the first of March seems to be adopted as a criterion to determine who shall pay the tax, and what county
shall receive it when it has changed locality or ownership
during the year and before the tax is levied. This may also
Set out supra, pp. 468, 469.-REP.

IIUNNEWELL V.

CASS COUNTY.

]-Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

be the reason of fixing the lieu of the tax onl land ol the

same day, that vendor and vendee may have a rule to determine upon whom the burden shall fall. But from this
time until the State board of equalization on the fourth
Monday iu May acts finally upon it, the assessment of property both real and personal is in progress and is incomplete,
and the final levy of the tax does not take place until July.
In the absence of any day or time fixed decisively by the
statute or clearly deducible from it, and of any decision of
any court of the State on the subject,. or of any long aud
well-settled practice by the State authorities, we hesitate to
say that when land is ,only exempt from taxation by reason
of the claims upon it of the Federal government, and those
claims are satisfied before the final proceedings are concluded, it would not be included in that assessment. In
such case not half the current year for which the taxes
are levied has expired. The general matter of assessment
or valuation for taxation is still within the control of the
proper officers, and if it is brought to their knowledge that
the full ownership of the lands has passed from the United
States to individuals or corporations it would seem equitable
that they should bear their share of the burden of taxation.
We are the more inclined not to interfere in this case by
the extraordinary remedy of injunction, because it is shown
that as to all these lands, not only had all dues to the United
States been paid before the final action of the State board
of equalization, but patents had issued for all of them before
this suit was brought. At the time, therefore, of filing this
bill to prevent the collection of taxes on account of the interest of the United States in the lands on which they were
levied, the United States had no interest in the land which
would forbid their being taxed; nor is it clear that they had
any when the lands were assessed. The costs of surveying
were paid before even the precinct assessors assessed these
lands, as they then thought they had a right to do, and it is
extremely uncertain whether any costs of selecting or conveying the lauds within the meaning of the act of Congres3
existed or were unpaid.

Oct. 1874.]

TAYLOR V. THOMAS.
Statement of the case.

Under all the circumstances, without deciding that there
is any partibular day to which by the laws of Nebraska the
liability for taxation of real estate must always be referred,
or if there be, what that day is, we affirm the decree of the
Circuit Court dismissing the bill in this case.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

TAYLOR V. THOMAS.
After the late rebellion in the Southern States had broken out into war, and
the government had blockaded all the Southern ports so as to prevent
the shipment of the staples of the South, including especially cotton,
from them, the rebel legislature of Mlississippi passed (December 19th,
1861) an act authorizing the issue of $5,000,000 in what were called
cotton notes; negotiable notes in a form suitable for currency, to he
issued by the State in sums of $1, $2, $3, $5, $10, $20, and $100.
Owners of cotton were to, in effect, hold it pledged to the government,
which thereupon gave them an advance on it in these notes; it being
agreed on both sides that after the removal of the blockade, and on a
proclamation made to that effect, the cotton should be delivered by the
owners, at some seaport or city to be named, and sold; the proceeds of
sale to be paid into the treasury of the State, and if sufficient, to be applied to redeeming the notes; and if insufficient the owner of the cotton
was to make the defiit good to the State.
The notes were made, by the act, receivable in payment of all taxes due or
to become due to the State, or to any county, or school fund, or municipal corporation, except a military tax then laid and confessedly in
aid of the rebellion; and when received for taxes might be again paid
out by the State treasurer upon any warrant of the auditor drawn upon
the general treasury.
Held, that notwithstanding the exception as to the 19military tax," the
notes were to be regarded as issued in aid of the rebellion and were
therefore void. And that on the rebellion being suppressed the notesnotwithstanding the provision in the original act about their receivability for taxes-were not receivable in payment of taxes which the reorganized State government directed to be paid in currency of the
United States.

I error to the Supreme Court of Mississippi.
This case involved the question of the validity of certain
notes, commonly known as "cotton money," issued and put

