238

FRENCH, TRUSTeE, V. HAY ET AL..

[Sup. Ct

Syllabus.

plained, is rebutted by the proof that all the defendant received was the proceeds of sale of his stock in the new company, by no possibility the fruit of the judgments. And the
complainant -annot claim an interest in that stock or its
proceeds, without affirming the trustees' sale of the railroad,'
and the subsequent formation of the new company, followed
by the issue of the stock. Such a sale, if valid, would have
destroyed the old company, three-quarters of the stock of
which the complainant owned. But the sale has been judicially determined to have been invalid, the old company has
recovered the property, and the new has been consequently
adjudged never to have had a legal existence. The consequence of this is that the complainant now holds his full
interest in the old company, unimpaired by any sale. After
this it is impossible to see how he can assert that any part
of the new stock or its proceeds belonged to him; and if'it
did not, nothing has been collected for him, even if he can
be considered the owner of the judgments. Nor has he been
injured by the entries of satisfaction, for if he became the
owner of the judgments by force of the instruments of
August 24th, 1860, as he avers, he is th'e owner still, notwithstanding the entries of satisfaction, for no one but the
owner could cause valid acknowledgments of satisfaction to
be made. For these reasons the decree must be
AFFIRMED.

FRENCH, TRUSTEE, V. HAY ET AL.
1. A. filed a bill against B., a purchaser of property at a sale made by C., a
trustee to sell; charging both B. and 0. with collusion and fraud in the
sale, and praying discovery from both parties, that the sale might be set
aside, &c., and that B., who had taken possession of the property, might

be charged with its rents, but not making such a prayer as to 0.
Both B. and 0. appeared and answered. The court charged B. wit4
rents, but did not charge C. B. appealed, and the decree charging him
being affirmed, and a master having reported to the inferior court the
amount of rents, a final decree was there made against B. for them.

At the same time that this decree was made (B. being insolvent), the

Oct. 1874.]

FRENCH, TRUSTEE, V. HAY ET AL.
Syllabus.

complainant asked and got leave to file an amended bill against the two
parties; Mr. D., an attorney of the court, appearing in court-but
without any authority from O.-and consenting that such a bill should
be filed. The amended bill was accordingly filed, alleging that B. was
insolvent; that C. was chargeable for the rents as well as B., and that
both were chargeable for use of certain furniture on the premises when
B entered them. Neither B. nor C., apparently, had actual knowledge
of the filing of this bill. And a decree was entered, pro confesso,
against C. for both the value of the rents and the injury to the furniture.
On C. getting knowledge of this decree it was vacated, and notwithstanding opposition by him a decree for rents was entered, leaving the case
open as to both parties in respect to the furniture. B. and C. then answered as to the whole case.
Subsequently (being entitled as respected citizenship to do so) they removed the case into the Circuit Court of the United States under the
act of March 2d, 1867, which court set aside all the decrees in the State
court and, ordering that the case should stand for hearing on bill, answer, and pleadings, opened the entire suit as if nothing bad been done
anywhere else in any part of it. C. answered denying all the material
allegations of all the bills; and testimony being taken no proof of their
truth appeared as to him. The Circuit Court annulled the decrees, in
tote, in the State court against both B. and 0., and dismissed the whole
bill. A. appealed to this court. Held,
First. That the decree against B. was wrongly vacated; that as to him
the decree in the State court on the original bill for rents was res judicata; and that that decree stood as though no amended bill had been
filed, and unimpeachable as to everything covered by it; while as to
the other matter (the damage to the furniture), the Circuit Court of the
United States should by issue directed to a jury, oz by reference to a
master, have ascertained it and have decreed accordingly.
Second. That the State court committed a gross error in entering a decree
against C. for rents, on the amended bill, where the original bill had
not prayed that he should be charged with them, and that his answer
denying, as it did, all the material allegations of both bills against him,
and those allegations being otherwise unsupported, the decree of the
State court was, as to him, rightly vacated, and the bill, as to him,
rightly dismissed.
2. When a case has been removed from a State court, into the Circuit Court
of the United States, under one of the acts of Congress relating to such
removal of cases (in this case the act was that of March 2d, 1867), an.
objection that the act has not been complied with in respect of time and
other important particulars, will not be listened to in this court, the
point not having been made in the court below until three years after
the removal made, and when the testimony was all taken and the case
ready for hearing. Nor ought it under such circumstances to have
been listened to in the Circuit Court. It came too late, and must be
held to have been conclusively waived.

FRENCH, TRUSTEE, V. HAY ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District
of Virginia; the case, though between the same parties as
the preceding onie (that is to say, between French and Hay),
not relating to the same transactions, and being thus:
In October, 1858, McCullough owning a house and lot in
Alexandria, Virginia, and being indebted to Harper in the
sum of $3000, evidenced by six negotiable notes of $500
each, conveyed the premises in the month named, to Brent,
in trust to secure the payment of the six notes. He then
leased the premises, together with ceitain furniture then in
the house, to James French, for five years at a rent of $600
a year; and in March, 1859, conveyed the premises to
Robert French in trust for the wife of the said James; assigning at the same time to Robert French the lease previously made to James; the money to be paid upon which
would in the course of the five years amount to exactly
$3000, and which it was agreed should be paid to Harper in
extinguishment of his debt of that amount.
On the execution of the lease James French went into
possession.
The rents were applied as agreed on, so that when the
rebellion became flagrant, as it did in the spring of 1861,
all the notes had been paid, excepting one. Five hundred
dollars were, therefore, thus due by McCullough to Harper,
and were still secured by the deed of trust to Brent.
In this state of things McCullough, the debtor, died;
Harper, his creditor, went south into the rebel lines, indorsing the note for the $500 and leaving"it with his wife
in Alexandria. James French and wife followed Harper,
leaving a Mrs. Brandy, a sister of French's, in occupation
of the house and furniture; and things in Alexandria got
into such confusion as in a civil war might occur in a place
situated as it was.
With the death of McCullough and the withdrawal south
of the other original actors, two new persons appeared. One
Alexander Hay, a citizen of Pennsylvania, a creditor of
McCullough, who upon his death applied for and got letters
of administration from the proper court at Alexandria on

Oct. 1874.] FRENCH, TiUSTEE,

V. IIAY ET AL.

241

Statement of the case.

McCullough's estate; and the other, J. B. Stewart, a citizen
of Nqew York, who alleging himself to have become owner
of the remaining note of $500 due by the estate of McCullough, applied for and got in the usual court at Alexandria,
an order by which Hay was substituted as trustee in the
place of Brent, now alleged to be in the Confederate army.
Hay, in order, as he alleged, properly to administer on
McCullough's estate as the legal administrator of it, and
also to execute as substituted trustee, his newly received
trust, now, December, 1865, advertised and sold as trustee,
under the deed of trust executed to Brent in 1858, the premises conveyed by it; Dr. Ripley, a surgeon in the army,
bidding them off as purchaser at $2600; the deed of McCullough to Robert French in trust for the wife of James French,
executed in March, 1859, having never been put on record until
abota a month before this sale, and neither flay nor Dr. Ripley
apparently havinq ever heard of it until after the sale was made.
Dr. Ripley, now hearing of the deed to French, and fearing that there might be trouble about title, and about getting possession, refused to pay for or to take the property;
and Stewart being willing to take his bid, Ripley assigned
the bid to him. But Hay too was alarmed, and some allegations reaching his ears that Stewart when he made the mo.
tion for the substitution of a trustee in the place or Brent, did
not own the remaining note of $500 as he had alleged he did,
would take no money fi'om nor execute any deed to Stewart.
In short, after the sale he did nothing whatever, and his
connection with the property ended. Stewart, however, got
possession of the house under an arrangement between himself and its then occupant, and being once in, held on to the
occupancy.
In February, 1866, the rebellion bein.g now ended, and
Harper and the other parties who had gone south having
come back to Alexandria, their old home, Robert French, as
trustee of Mrs. James French, filed a bill ii the County
Court of Alexandria, against Stewart, Hay, Brent et al.,
alleging that Stewart was not owner of the remaining $500
note, when the order of court putting Hay as trustee in the
VOL. XXI.

16

242

FRENCH, TRUSTEE, V. HAY ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

place of Brent was made, and that the note was at that time
still owned by Harper, and that the sale by Hay was collusive and void; that the note had since been paid, and that
so the whole $3000, which the property was conveyed to
Brent to secure, was now discharged; and the complainant
entitled to hold the property upon the trusts created for
MIrs. Robert French by the deed of March, 1859, there
being now no prior trust. The prayer of the bill was:
"That the defendants, Stewart and Hay, may make full and
true discovery of all their transactions connected with the sale,
by the said Hay, of the property described, to the said Stewart,
that the sale may be set aside, and the deed made in pursuance
thereof delivered up and cancelled; that the said Stewart may
render an account of the rents and profits of the paid property
while in the use and occupation thereof."
No prayer, as the reader will observe, was made that Hay
might be charged with rents and profits.
On the 2d of June, 1866, Stewart filed his answer; the
same being sworn to and signed in the ordinary way, and
signed also by his attorney, C. F. Doddridge, Esquire.
On the 8th of December following, the court decreed that
the sale was void; that the property should be restored to
the complainant; that Stewart was chargeable with the rents
and profits, and that the case should be referred to a master
to ascertain the amounut. An appeal was thereupon taken
by Stewart to the proper court of the State-the State District Court-which affirmed the decree of the County Court.
Upon the return of the case to the County Court it was referred to a master to take an account of the rents and profits,
pursuant to the decree.
The master reported that Stewart was chargeable with
,$3276, from which sum was to be deducted the payments
.made by him, amounting in all to $887, apd leaving.a bal,ance against Stewart of $2389, and on the 2d of June, 1869,
the court decreed that he should pay that sum with interest
from the 26th of October, 1868. This the reader will understand was for reuts and profits of the real estate only,
.and .not for use of furniture.

Oct. 1874.]

FRENCH, TRUSTEE, V. HAY ET AL.

243

Statement of the case.

At the same time when this decree was made leave was
given to the complainant to file an amended bill; "William
Dulany" (said the record), "an attorney of the court, appearing in court and consentino thereto."
He thereupon, June 7th, 1869, did file such bill, charging that /Hciy had participated in the frauds of Stewart, and
should be held equally liable with him for rents, and that
both were chargeable in addition for loss and damage touching the furniture in the house when Stewart took possession. The bill was taken as confessed by Hay, and on the
21st of August, 1869, it was decreed that lie should pay to
the complainant on account of rents and for the detention and damage to the furniture, $3389, with interest from
the 26th of October, 1868, the date already named in the
former decree. Thereafter Hay and Stewart applied to the
court to vacate the decrees against them, and for leave to
appear and answer; the grounds of their application being
that no process upon the amended bill had been served upon
them, and that they had no notice or knowledge of its pendency against them until after the decree pro coqfesso had
been entered, nor until a short time before the application
now made; and Hay averred and showed by his own oath
and by other proofs that Mr. Dulany, the attorney, who had
acted for him in that behalf had done so by a misunderstanding, wholly without his consent or knowledge; and lie
set forth a variety of facts which, if true, made a complete
defence to the bill.
On the 23d of December, 1869, the court vacated the decree of the 21st of August, 1869, against Hay, but at the
same time and in the same order decreed against him for
the sum of $2389, with interest from the 26th of October,
1868, on account of the rents, and ordered that an issue
should be tried on the law side of the court touching the
furniture; and that Hay and Stewart should both have leave
to answer. They thereupon answered as to the whole case;
denying each and all of the allegations both of the original
and the amended bill. On the 8th of February, 1870, they
moved the court for an order for the removal of the case

244

FRENCH, TRUSTEE, V. HAY ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for that district,
pursuant to the act of Congress of the 2d of March, 1867.
Au order was made and the cause was removed accordingly.
The whole proceedings in the State court, including, of
course, all the bills and the answers, among the latter, the
answer of Hay denving each and all of the allegations of
the bills, were thus transferred as the record for the circuit
of the United States.
In the Circuit Court of the United States Hay and Stewart
severally moved the court to vacate the several decrees
against them made by the Circuit Court of the county.
These motions were heard, and the several decrees were annulled, and it was "ordered that the case do now stand for
hearing on the bill, answer, and pleadings." Testimony
was thereafter taken, by agreement, upon both sides. On
the 13th of October, 1873,-near three years after the case
had been removed, and when it was ready for hearingthe complainant moved the court to remand it to the conrt
whence it came, he insisting that the act of Congress under
which the case had been removed, had not been complied
with in respect to time and several other important particulars. The motion was overruled. The case was then heard
upon the merits and the bill dismissed.
The complainant appealed to this court, and the case was
thus brought here for review.
In the argument here the objection touching the removal
of the case from the State court was renewed, and the case
otherwise discussed both on technical points and on merits.
Mr. TV.Willoughby, for the appellant; Messrs. H. H. Wells
and G. TF. Pasehall, contra.
NIr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The objection made in the court below touching the removal of the case from the State court, and which objection
has been renewed here, was not made in the court below
until the testimony was all taken, the case was ready* for
hearing, and nearly three years had elapsed since the trans-

Oct. 1874.]

FRExcn, TRUSTEE, V. HAY ET AL.
Opinion of the court as to Stewart.

fer was made. The objection came too late. Under the
circumstances it must be held to have been conclusively
waived.*
We shall consider the record as regards Stewart and Hay
as if they were not joint defendants. The case as to each
presents a distinct aspect, and requires a separate examination.
I. As TO STEWART.
On the 2d of June, 1866, he filed his answer to the original bill. It was subscribed and sworn to by himself, and
signed by Mr. Doddridge as his counsel. He thus entered
his appearance and placed himself within the jurisdiction of
the court. The proceedings thereafter, including his appeal
to the State District Court, appear to have been in all things
regular down to the removal of the case to the Circuit Court
of the United States. The decree of the 8th of December,
1866, from which the appeal was taken, was a final oue.t
When affirmed by the appellate court it was conclusive of
the rights of the parties as to everything covered by it, and
could not be affected by any action of the Circuit Court of
the county or of the United States in the subsequent progress
of the case. That decree was resjudicataof the most solemn
character.1
The decree of the 2d of June, 1869, ascertained the amount
due from Stewart for the rents, and ordered that he should
pay it. This terminated the litigation under the original
bill. After the close of that term-except for reasons not
claimed nor shown to exist-the court had no power to revoke'or modify this decree.ยง Nothing of the kind was attempted. At the same time that this decree was entered
leave was given to the complainant to file the amended bill,
* Taylor v. Longworth, 14 Peters, 174; Executors of Brasher v. Van
Cortlandt, 2 Johnson's Chancery, 242; Skinner v Dayton, 5 Id. 191.
t Forgay v. Conrad, 6 Howard, 204; Thomson v. Dean, 7 Wallace. 342.
T Campbell v. Campbell, 22 Grattan, 649; Thomson v. Albert, 15 Mfaryland, 282; Hammond v. Inloes, 4 Id. 139.
S-Cameron v. McRoberts, 3 Wheaton, 591; Bank of the United States v.
Moss et al., 6 Howard, 31; United States v. Glamorgan, 2 Curtis, 236.

246

FRENCH, TRUSTEE, V. HAY ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court as to Stewart.

William Dulany, Esq., an attorney of the court, "appeari n g
in court and consenting thereto." The amended bill was
filed on the 17th of that month. It sought to make Hay
liable also for the rents, and Hay and Stewart liable fbr the
loss and damage as to the furniture. This did not in any
wise affect the previous litigation and decrees as to Stewart
under the original bill. Those decrees continued to stand
as if the amended bill had not been filed.* The general
rule is that an amendment of the bill gives a defefidant the
right to answer as if he had not answered before.t In the
state of the case which existed when the amendment here
in question was made, no amendment could be allowed. It
was then too late. A final decree covering the entire original case subsisted. The court had no power over that decree and never attempted to exercise any. The further
relief sought could be reached, if at all, only by a supplemental bill.1 It was a gross error to allow the amended
bill to be filed. But the point was not made in the State
court nor in the court below, nor in the argument here.
The case, according to our views, can be properly disposed
of without reference to it. We have, therefore, laid it out
of view. An amended bill is esteemed a part of the original bill and a continuation.of the suit. But one record is
made. But the amendment is sometimes of such a character that it is regarded as an independent graft upon the
original case and the beginning of a new lis pendens.ยง
Stewart complained that Dulany appeared and acted for
him as to the amended bill without authority. Whether
Dulany did so or not is immaterial. New process is neces'Young v. Frost, 1 Maryland, 394; Washington Bridge Co. v. Stewart
et al., 3 Howard, 413; Walsh v. Smyth, 3 Bland, 20; Keene v. Wheatley and
Clarke, 9 American Law Register, 60.

t 1 Daniell's Chancery Practice, 411 (Perkins's edition of 1865).
$ Thorn v. Germand, 4 Johnson's Chancery, 363; Shephard v. Merrill, 3
Id. 423; Chandler v. Pettit, I Paige, 168; Stafford v. Howlett,'Ib. 200;
Bowen v Idley, 6 Id. 46; Ross v. Carpenter, 6 McLean, 382; Walsh v.
Smyth, 3 Bland, 20; Sanborn v. Sanborn, 7 Gray, 142; Verplanck v. Mercantile Insurance Co., 1 Edwards, 46.
j Miller v. McIntire, 6 Peters, 61 ; Walsh v. Smyth, 3 Bland, 20.

Oct. 1874.]

FRENCH, TRUSTEE, V. HAY ET AL.
Opinion of the court as to Stewart.

sary unless waived upon a supplemental bill and a bill of
revivor, but not upon an amended bill as to defendants who
are already before the court.* Being in court they are
bound to take notice of the filing of such bills as of any
other proceeding in the case. In the English practice the
complainant is required to serve a copy of the amendment
upon the solicitor of the defendant,t but this, it is believed,
is rarely if ever done in the courts of the States, unless required by an established rule of practice or a special order
in the case. In the courts of the United States the subject
is regulated by the twenty-eighth rule of equity practice.
The State court, by an order of the 23d of December, 1869,
directed an issue to be tried as to the furniture, and gave
Stewart leave to answer the amended bill.
This was all he had a right to claim, and left him nothing
to complain of. In this condition of things the case went
to the Circuit Court of the United States. That court
possessed the same power in the case as the State court
while the case was before it, no more and no less. It certainly did not sit as a court of errors or appeal with jurisdiction to reverse the final decree of the State court made
under the original bill. That would be contrary to the intent and meaning of the act of Congress under which the
removal was made. Its authority as to Stewart was limited
to the allegations of the amended bill in regard to the furniture. So far as he was concerned it presented no other subject of litigation, and nothing else was open to examination
under it. If that bill had not been filed there could have
been no transfer as to him. On the 22d of October, 1872, the
court below, as before stated, set aside all the decrees of the
State court and ordered that "this case do now stand for
The entire
hearing on the bill, answer, and pleadings."
case was thus opened anew, as if nothing had been done
under the original bill by the State court. This was clearly
an error. We think the liability of Stewart as to the furniture was well made out by the complainant.
Cunningham v. Pell, 6 Paige, 657; Longworth v. Taylor, 1 McLean, 516.
t Woodhouse v. Meredith, 1 Jacob & Walter, 207.

248

FRENCH, TRUSTEE, V. HAY ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of th6 court as to Hay.

The court below, by an issue at law, as directed by the
interlocutory order of the State court, or by a reference to
a master, should have ascertained the amount and decreed
accordingly.*
The order vacating the decrees of the State court as to
Stewart, made under the original bill, is VACATED. The
final decree dismissing the bill as to him is REVERSED, and
the case will be REMANDED to the court below with directions to proceed
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.
I. As TO HAY.
He also filed an answer to the original bill. Like Stewart's, it was subscribed and sworn to by himself, and was
subscribed by counsel. He, too, was bound to take notice
of the filing of the amended bill. But the original bill
claimed no decree against him. The amended bill, as to
him, made an entirely new case. It set up the first claim
against him as to the rent and the furniture. His own affidavit and the other proofs showed clearly that Dulany had
no authority to appear as his counsel; that he had no actual
knowledge of the filing of the bill until after the decree pro
confesso was taken against him, and that lie had a complete
defence. It is within the discretion of a court of equity,
upon a propelr slioving, to set aside a decree pro eonfesso
upon such terms as it may see fit to prescribe.t
The State court well exercised its authority in s~tting
aside the decree against Hay, but it committed a gross error
in decreeing against him eo instanti the payment of $2387 on
account of the rent, leaving the case open only as to the furniture. To revoke the first decree because he had been
ignorant of the filing of the amended bill, and, hence, had
made no defence, and then to renew it without giving him
an opportunity to be heard, was, to say the least, a singular
* Kelsey v. Hobby, 16 Peters, 269.

t Wooster v.Woodhull, I Johnson's Ohancery, 539; Beekman v. Peck,
Id. 415.

Oct. 1874.]

FRENCH, TRUSTEE, V. HAY ET AL.

249

Opinion of the court as to Hay.

anomaly. So far as he was concerned the claim as to the
rent and the furniture rested upon exactly the same foundation. If it was proper that he should be heard as to one
it was equally so that he should be heard as to the other.
There was no difference. The same considerations applied
with respect to both. In the renewed decree damages as
to the furniture might as well have been included as the
charge for the rent. It was no less wrong as to the latter
than it would have been as to the former. Time and opportunity to defend being refused, the decree was in effect
another decree pro confesso. It certainly was not a decree
upon'the merits after a hearing upon the charge as to the
rents.
After the transfer of the case he applied to the Circuit
Court of the United States to vacate this decree upon the
same showing as in the State court, and it was done. A
bill for fraud could not have been maintained, because
there was no foundation for the charge. A bill of review
would not have availed him, because there was no error
apparent upon the face of the decree nor upon the record.
The circumstances under which the decree was rendered
were very peculiar. They have been stated. The proper
mode of seeking redress was by motion upon the showing
which was made.* The Circuit Court had the power to
do what it did and properly did it. This was less expensive, less dilatory, and much to be preferred to a bill,
even if the same relief could have been had in that way.
It was also more in accordance with the spirit of sound
equity practice.
The entire case made by the bill as to Hay was thus
opened. His answer denied all the material allegations
against him, and we find in the record no evidence whatever to sustain them. No effort seems to have been made to
procure any.
Kemp v. Squire, 1 Vesey, Sr., 112; Robinson v. Oranwell, 1 Diekins, 1;
Erwin v. Vint, 6 Alumford, 267; Pickett's Heirs v. Legerwood et al., 7
Peters, 144; see also Tilden v. Johnson, 6 Cushing, 354; Balch and wife v.
Shaw, 7 Id. 284; Hall v. Williams, 1 Fairfield, 278.

[Sup. Ct.

FRENCH, TRUSTEE, V. HAY.
Statement of the case.

The bill as to him was rightly dismissed, and in this respect the decree of the Circuit Court is
AFFIRMED.

NOTE.

AT the same time with the preceding case was argued, and
just after its adjudica tion was adjudged, another which here
follows, an offshoot from the first case, issuing from it as a
branch from a main stbck. It is requisite, of course, that before
reading the smaller case now given, the reader should be possessed of the larger one already reported.'
FRENCH, TRUSTEE, V. HAY.

When, in a case which is properly removed from a State court, under one
of the acts of Congress relating to removals, into the Circuit Court of
the United States, a complainant getting a decree in the State court
and sending a transcript of it into another State, sues the defendant on
it there, the Circuit Court into which the case is removed may enjoin
the complainant from proceedings in any such or other distant court
until it hears the case; and if, after hearing, it annuls the decree in
the State court, and dismisses, as wanting equity, the bill on which the
decree was made, may make the injunction perpetual.

THE present case was thus:

On the 3d of February, 1870, that is to say, six weeks after
the decree for $2389 (leaving the matter of furniture open), for
rents mentioned in the former case* as having been given, 23d of
December, 1869, in the County Court of Alexandria, in favor
of James French, the trustee, against Alexander Hay, the said
French sent a transcript of the decree to Philadelphia, the.place
of Hay's residence, and sued Hay on it, in one of the local courts
there. Hay had, two days before the transcript was sued on,
that is to say on the 1st of February, 1870, made the affidavits
requisite to remove the case into the Circuit Court of the United
States under the act of Congress; though the case was not yet
actually removed, nor indeed removed until the 12th following.
* Supra, p. 243, towards the bottom of the page.

