594

RAILROAD COMPANY v. ANDROSCOGaIN MILLS. [Sup. Ct.
Syllabus.

use as a safe and convenient medium for the settlement of
balances among mercantile men, and any course of judicial
decision calculated to restrain or impede their unembarrassed circulation would be contrary to the soundest principles of public policy.
Mercantile law is a system of jurisprudence recognized
by all commercial nations, and upon no subject is it of more
importance that there should be, as far as practicable, uniformity of decision throughout the world.*
Apply these several suggestions to the case and it follows
that the statute, when properly construed, does not include
the indorser of a negotiable promissory note whose liability
has become absolute by due notice of the dishonor of the
note.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED

RAILROAD COMPANY v. ANDROSCOGGIN MILLS.
The Evansville and Crawfordsville Railroad Company, of Indiana, owning
a railroad running from the south line of that State northward to another point in it, and which made a line of road by which cotton was
brought from Columbus, Mississippi, to Boston, Massachusetts, established, apparently with the view of procuring.freights over its road, an
agency in the former place; and there, as it seemed, was in the habit
of contracting for the transportation of cotton from Columbus to Boston,
its own road providing one link of the chain for transportation.
Planters in Columbus shipped from that place to manufacturers in Boston
a quantity of cotton. The bill of lading, dated at Columbus,' Mississippi,
and signed by the agent, at Columbus, of the railroad company, had in
display letters at its top"REVANSVILLE AND CRAWFORDSVILLE RAILROAD COIPANY.
"Great throz
.gl
fast freight route to all points north and east, via Pennsylvania Central, Erie, and New York Central Railroads. Contract for through
rate. This reliable through line makes the shipment of cotton a specialty, and
guarantees quick time and delivery in good order."
The bill, after stating the destination of the c(tton to be Boston, Kassachusetts, went on to say:
"The Evansville and Crawfordsville Railroad Company hereby agree that
* Goodman v. Simouds. 20 Howard, 364.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY v. ANDROSCOGGIN MILLS.

595

Statement of the case.
uposs arrival at Evassville, anl delivery of tise property, they will receive and
'orward said property to destination upon the following conditions : That the
?hipper, owner, and consignee do hereby release the said company and the
boats and railroads with which they connect, from the acts of Providence, or
from damage or loss by fire or other casualty while in depots or places of transhipment; also, damage or delays by unavoidable accidents; also, loss by fire,
collision, or dangers of navigation, or for loss or difference in weights, torn
baggage, or condition of said property.
" Te Eveasvifle and Cianfordsville Rqilroid Compay will -wt be llable for
lo.t or dssmage byfire,from ony Czuse what-ver.
"All property shipped on this contract will be subject to the expense of neees,1-ry repairs and remarking. In the event of loss or damage under the provimons of this agreement, the value or cost at the point or shipment shall govern
the settlement of the same. Said property to be forwarded immediately after
its arrival at Evansville. . . . and to be delivered at Boston, upon the payment of the freight and charges as herein specified.
"Through rate $10.25 per bale, from Columbus to Boston."
The exemption just above put in italics was printed in red ink. Reld1. That the cotton being delivered to the company's agent, at Columbus,
there was a contract by the company to carry from Columbus to Boston.
2. That the exemption in red ink applied to the whole route, between
Columbus and Boston, and not to the part alone between Evansville
and Boston; and that the cotton having been burned between Columbus
and Evansville, without fault of the railroad company, the exemption
in red ink applied, and absolved the company from liability for the loss.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana;
the case being thus:
The Evansville and Crawfordsville Railroad Company was
a railroad company incorporated by the State of Indiana,,
and having a railroad between Evansville, in the southern
part of Indiana, and Crawfordsville, in the northern. The
road is part of a line of road for the transportation of cotton
between the cotton fields of the South and the cotton mills
of the North. For the purpose, apparently, of procuring
freights over its road, this company had established an
agency at Columbus, in Mississippi, and was in the habit
of making contracts there for the transportation of cotton
from that lace to Boston, Massachusetts, its own road forming one link of the chain of transportation.
On the 10th of January, 1873, Mitchell & Co. shipped,
from the said Columbus, in Mississippi, to B. F. Bates, the
treasurer of the "Androscoggin Mills," an incorporated
ERROR

596

RAILROAD COMPANY V. ANDROSCOGGIN MILLS. [Sup.

Ct.

Statement of the case.

company in New England, two hundred bales of cotton, to
be delivered at Boston.
The bill of lading, creating the contract between the parties, was as follows, viz.:
EVANSVILLE AND CRAWFORDSVILLE RAILROAD
COMPANY.
Great through Fast Freight Route to all points.North and East, via
Pennsylvania Central, Erie, and Nlew York Central Railroads.
CONTRACT FOR THROUGH RATE.
A. E. SHRADER,
General Freight Agent, Evansville, Indiana.

This reliable through line makes the shipment of cotton and
tobacco a specialty, and guarantees quick time and delivery in
good order.
COLUMBUS, Miss., January 10th, 1873.

Received from Mlitchell & Co. the following packages (contents unknown), in apparent good order, viz.:
Weight,
A-ark, consignees, and destination.

<B A>B. F.,Bates, Treas., Boston, Mass.

Articles.

Subject to correction.

200 bales cotton.

The Evansville and Crawfordsville Railroad Company hereby
agree that, upon arrival at Evansville, and delivery of the property above described and consigned, they will receive and forward said property to destination upon the following conditions:
That the shipper, owner, and consignee do hereby release the
said Evansville and Crawforlsville Railroad Company, and the
boats and railroads with which they connect, from the acts of
Providence, or from damage or loss by fire or other casualty
while in depots or places of transhipment; also, damage or delays
by unavoidable accidents; also, loss by fire, collision, or dangers
of navigation, or for loss or difference in weights, torn baggage,
or condition of said property.
THE EVANSVILLE AND CRAWFORDSVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE BY FIRE, FROM" ANY

dAUSE WHATEVER.
All property shipped on this contract will be subject to the

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. ANDROSCOGGIN MILLS.

597

Statement of the case.

expense of necessary repairs and remarking. In the event of
loss or damage under the provisions of this agreement, the
value or cost at the point of shipment shall govern the settlement of the same. Said property to be forwarded immediately
after its arrival at Evansville, or as soon thereafter as it is ready
for shipment, and to be delivered at Boston, Mlassachusetts,
upon the payment of the freight and charges as herein specified.
In witness whereof the agent hath affirmed to four bills of
lading of this tenor and date, one of which being accomplished
the others to stand void.
Through rate $10.25 per bale, from Columbus to Boston.
L. Q. AYREs,
Agent.

The words in small capital letters at or near the bottom
of the preceding page were printed, in the bill of lading, in
red ink, so as to be conspicuous. Those in bold face in the
twelve lines before, are here so put by the Reporter, being
words on which the question partly turned.
The cotton was burned on the way from Columbus to
Evansville; that is to say, was burned before it ever reached
Evansville.
The Androscoggin Mills now sued the Evansville and
Crawfordsville Rail road Company, declaring upon that clause
of the contract which contained the provision that "upon
the arrival at Evansville and delivery of the property above
consigned, they will receive and forward said property to
destination upon the following conditions;" conditions
among which, as the reader has noted, was one that the
company would not be liable for loss by fire while in depots
or places of transhipment; and another, that they would not
be liable for loss by fire, collision, or dangers of"navigation,
or loss or difference in weights, &c. And as the cotton had
not arrived at Evansville when the loss occurred, the argument of the Androscoggin Mills was that the condition of an
exemption from liability in the case of a loss by fire did not
attach, and that the railroad company was to be subjected
to the loss upon the general principle of its liability as a
common carrier.

598

RAILROAD COMPANY V. ANDROSCOGGIN MILLS. [Sup. Ct.
Argument for the common carrier.

Oil demurrer the court below was of the opinion that this
position was a sound one, and gave judgment against the
Evansville and Crawfordsville company.
From that judgment the company appealed.
Mfr. A. Inglehart,for the plaintiff in error:
I. The bill acknowledges receipt of the cotton at Columbus, Mississippi, but only undertakes to carry the same
when it arrives at Evansville; and to construe the undertaking according to its terms, the railroad company is not liable
till the goods reached Evansville. Now, as the goods never
reaeh6d Evansville, and were never delivered to the company within the terms of the contract sued on, there is fio
liability at all.
IL But if the court should hold the bill of lading to be a
contract to carry from Columbus to Boston, then clearly the
whole contract with all its conditions and stipulations is also
extended to the whole distance.
The exemption, which is declared in the most general
terms, "The Evansville and Crawfordsville Railroad Company will not be liable for loss by fire for any cause whatever," is surely as broad as the obligation to *carry. It is
almost equivalent in words to saying that the company will
not be liable for loss by fire wherever occurring.
This declaration is made the subject of a new and isolated
paragraph, displayed, by red ink, as a prominent and pervading feature of the contract.
As confessedly the loss occurred without the fault of the
bompany, it is under the exemption not liable.
This company, it is obvious, was seized and pervaded by
a sense of peril from fire. We have no less than three provisions in about as many lines, against liability for loss by it.
Can it be supposed that the company meant to say that if a
fire occurred on the first part of the route they would pay
the loss with pleasure, but'that if it occurred on the second
they would not pay it at all?

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. ANDROSCOGGIN MILLS. 599
Argument for the owner of the goods.

Mr. Charles Denby, contra:
The opposing counsel admits the receipt by the company's
agent of the cotton at Columbus, Mississippi, and the position is that there was no contract to carry from Columbus
to Evansville at all, but only to carry from Evansville to
Boston. Hence, that there can be no liability for the loss
between Columbus and Evansville. But what was the company to do with the cotton after receiving it unless to carry
it? keep it forever at Columbus?
Having received the cotton at Columbus it was the plain
duty of the company to deliver it in Boston. The plaintiff
had lost all power or control over it, and it being exclusively
in the hands of the company it must be responsible for its
safe delivery at Boston via Evansville, where the company
had agreed to receive and to forward it, upon the restricted
terms of the bill of lading as applied to that portion of the
route from Evansville to Boston.
Flanders, in his authoritative work on Shipping,* considers this exact case. He says:
c,
The responsibility attaches from the moment of the receipt.
... Contracts to forward goods from one place to another and
distant place, subject the party as common carrier for the whole
route, although his own transportation line extends only part
of the distance, and the loss occurs on a portion of the route in
which he is not interested."
It is quite plain, however, in looking at the bill of lading,
that the exemptions do have a special reference to the transit
from Evansville to Boston; and so plain is this, that the
other side is actually led into the position that unless and
until the cotton got to Evansville, there was not even a contract to carry at all.
Anybody looking at the bill of lading will see that while
in general there is a contract to carry all the way through
from Columbus to Boston, the exemptions-the earlier ones
confessedly-have an exclusive reference to carriage between Evansville, where the company's road begins, and
Section 311.

600

RAILROAD COMPANY V. ANDROSCOGGIN MILLS. [Sup. Ct.
Argument for the owner of the goods.

Boston. That is a matter to be decided by "inspection."
"Upon arrival at Evansville and delivery of the property"
there, it is that the company will receive and forward it upon
"the following conditions." Does not the condition in red
ink follow, and follow without a word interposited to show
that it does not come into operation until " upon arrival and
delivery at Evansville, and delivery of the property."

What

has red ink or a new paragraph-devices of the printer
merely-got to do with the legal interpretation of a contract? Either may make the exemption more conspicuous,
but neither can make it apply to that which it would not
have applied to, had it been in black ink or without the
paragraph. The exemption is sensible enough as it stands.
The bill makes three exemptions about fire:
1. "Damage or loss by fire while in depots or places of
transhipment."
2. "Damage or delays by unavoidable accident; also loss by
fire; i. e., loss by fire arising by unavoidable accident, or
else, perhaps, loss by fire whether occurring in depots, &c.,
or not."

3. "Loss or damage from any cause whatever."
We have here a progressive series of exemptions. The
first two have confessedly reference to the transit between
Evansville and Boston. Why shall the third not have the
same? The third only extends what the first two less fuly
provide for. It may attempt to extend the exemption to
an unlawful degree in attempting to exempt "from loss or
damage by fire from any cause whatever." But the question
here is not about the lawfulness of it, but as to what it
applies.
We admit that the exemptions, meant to be secured by
the bill, are confusedly stated. But there is less difficulty
in interpreting them as we would interpret them, than in
the way in which the other side would interpret them. If
you would apply the red-letter exemption to the whole
transit, of what effect are the two exemptions confessedly
confined to the partial transit between Evansville and
Boston?

Oct' 1874.] RAILROAD COMPANY v. ANDROSCOGGIN MILLS. 601
Opinion of the court.

If you confine it to the transit between Columbus and
Evansville, then you give, for that part of the road, an exemption greater than that for the other; that other which it
is plain from other provisions was the part more particularly
meant to be guarded. The construction is, perhaps, one of
a balance of difficulties. The difficulties of the construction
sought to be set up by the other side are more weighty than
those of the one sought to be maintained by us.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
Had the bill of lading contained nothing more than the
terms and clauses in the part of it which is before the redletter clause, the argument made in behalf of the Androscoggin Mills would be a strong one. We must,. however,
examine the whole contract, and constilue and give effect to
all its provisions.
This bill of lading, in the first place, is a contract covering the cotton during the entire period of its transmission
from Columbus to Boston, and over every part of the route.
Not only is this the general law of the bill of lading, from
the fact that Columbus was the place of receiving, and Boston the place of delivering, the cotton, but this bill of lading
is emphatic in its declaration that such is its character. It
is headed, "Great through fast route to all points north and
east," &c. It says: "This reliable through line makes the
shipment of cotton and tobacco a specialty;" "contract for
a through rate;" and again, "Through rate $10.25 per bale
from Columbus to Boston." It is evident, therefore, that
the cotton is the subject of the contract of carriage not only
from Evansville to Boston, to which the plaintiffs in error
would confine it, but from Columbus to Evansville as well.
Bearing this in mind, it will be observed in the second
place, that the contract separates itself into two parts-one,
limiting the liability of the railroad company from Evansville to Boston, the other governing its liability generally.
Thus the portion already referred to as relied upon by the
defendants in error, undoubtedly was intended to be limited
in its range. The liability under'it and the exemption also,

60"2

IRAILROAD COMPANY

'.

ANDROSCOGGIN MILLS. [Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

is expressly made dependent on the arrival of the goods -at
Evansville, and until they have so arrived, neither the liability nor the exemption commences. We can, however, be
asked to hold that the liability or the exemption on a portion of the route is entirely omitted from the terms of a bill
of lading which provides for transportation over the whole
route, and where the compensation is specified as covering
the whole route, only where it so appears by the plainest
language. No doubt terms might be used in a bill of lading
for the transportation of cotton from Mississippi to Massachusetts, by which exemptions from liability for loss by fire
while in a railroad car friom Evansville northward should be
made, and no such exemptions should be made while the
cotton was on the deck of a steamboat. We should not,
however, expect to find such provisions, and we should require them to be clearly expressed.
All of the first general paragraph of the bill of lading
may fairly be said to relate to the conditions upon which
the transportation from Evansville northward shall be made.
In its general terms we have already considered that paragraph.
A new subject, however, is taken up in the next sentence.
It is not only the beginning of another paragraph, with the
usual space between it and what precedes it, but it is printed
in red ink, while what precedes it is in ordinary black type.
Its importance in the opinion of the shippers is thus manifested. Attention is called to it as involving important
provisions. Dropping the reference to Evansville, and the
arrival of the goods there, it uses the most general terms:
"The -vansville and Crawfordsville -RailroadVompany will not
be liable for loss or daipage by fire, from any cause Whatever."
It is an evident addition to the contract as expressed in the
first clause. The railroad company there define the terms
and conditions upon which they will be liable after the property has reached Evansville. While on the passage from
Evansville northward, non-liability for loss by fire is twice
stipulated for,-once while in depots or places of transhipments, and again in general terms,-the evident object and

Oct. 1874.] RAILROAD COMPANY V. ANDROSCOGGIN MILLS. 603
Opinion of the court.

intent of the first clause is to affect this part of the route
only. A new branch of the contract is then taken up, and
the difference is intended to be made plain to the eye as well
as the understanding. In the red-ink clause they use terms
applicable to the entire contract of shipment, viz.: They
"will not be liable for loss or damage by fire, from any cause
whatever." No language of limitation is used. It is as if
they had said, "Should damage by fire occur to this cotton
during any part of the route, and from any cause whatever,
this company will not be liable."
It is quite unreasonable to suppose that the company here
intended to guard themselves against a liability for which
they had twice already stipulated that they should not be
liable, to wit, of loss by fire after the cotton had reached
Evansville. The clause in red was intended to cover the
whole contract. Wherever, whenever, or however they
would by law be liable for a loss by fire, from that liability
they intended to relieve themselves. The exemption was
intended to be as broad as was the original liability.
A careful reading of the bill of lading shows that the redink clause not only, but all that follows it, must have been
understood by the parties to cover the whole route, and not
to be limited to a part of the distance only. Thus, after
providing an exemption from liability for loss by fire from
any cause whatever, the bill of lading goes on to say, "All
property shipped on this contract will be subject to the exCan it be
pense of necessary repairs and remarking."
doubted that if the sacks of this cotton had required repairing or remarking from causes occurring before it reached
Evansville, that it would have been a proper item of expense
under this clause ? "In the event of loss or damage under
the provisions of this agreement (it proceeds) the value or
cost at the point of shipment shall govern the settlement of
the same." No one can doubt that the value at Columbus
will govern the amount of a recovery under this clause.
And again, the clause, "Said property to be forwarded immediately after its arrival at Evansville, . . . and to be delivered at Boston upon the payment of freight and charges,"

BAILEY V. RAILROAD

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

is, by its very terms, applicable to goods not yet at Evansville, when the contract takes effect.
We are of opinion that the argument of the defendants in
error, upon which the judgment below was based, that the
exemption from liability by fire was limited to fire occurring
after the cotton had been received at and shipped from
Evansville, was erroneous. The exemption covers the entire
route.
JTUDGIENT REVERSED,

and judgment upon the demurrer

ordered in favor of
THE

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR.

BAILEY V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
1. In December, 1868, a railroad company, which was in existence in 1862,
and before, but which by its charter was limited to 10 per cent. dividends on its capital, now all taken, reciting that it had "hitherto expended of its earnings for the purpose of constructing and equipping its
road, and in the purchase of real estate and other properties with a
view to the increase of its traffic, moneys equal to 80 per cent. of its
capital," and reciting further that the stockholders were "1entitled to
evidence of such expenditure and to reimbursement of the same at some
convenient future period," resolved to give them and did give them in
proportion to the amount of stock held by them respectively,_certificates which it called "1interest certificates," which certified that A. B.
"being the holder of shares of the capital stock of the company,
was entitled to $-,
payable ratably with the other like certificates,
at the pleasureof the company out of its future earnings, with dividends
thereon at the same rates and times as dividends should be paid upon
the capital stock of the company." The "certificate" was declared to
be transferable on the books of the company, and had a transfer in
blank at the foot of it, in the form common at the foot of certificates of
stock, with an appointment in blank of an attorney to transfer.
Held, that this was a "dividend in scrip," within the twenty-second section of the Internal Revenue Act of June 30th, 1864, as subsequently
amended, which enacts that "any railroad company which may have
declared any dividend in scrip or money due or payable to its stockholders as part of the earnings, profits, income, or gains of such company, carried to the account of any fund, or used for constructi( n, shall
be subject to and pay a tax of five per centum on the amount of such

