Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. POLLARD.
Syllabus.

of property are adjudged to be fraudulent, although there
be no actual fraud meditated by the parties. Such are the
cases of an assignment by an insolvent debtor reserving portions of the assigned property for his own benefit, requiring
releases from creditors as a condition of participating in the
fund, and the like.
The case we are considering bears no resemblance to these
cases. There is in a purchase by a trustee, nothing that of
itself and necessarily vitiates the original sale. Whether
culpable or commendable depends upon the circumstances
of each case. It may be wrong, and it may be right. It
may be approved by the parties interested and affirmed. It
may be condemned by them and avoided. When it is found
that the transaction is itself perfectly fair and honest, that
the purchase was not contemplated at the original sale, but
was first thought of years afterwards, and was then made
for a full and fair consideration actually paid by the trustee,
and after the fiduciary duty was at an end, we find no authority to justify us in pronouncing the original sale to have
been fraudulent.

Upon the whole case the decree must be

REVERSED,

and

the record remanded, with directions to enter a decree in
conformity with this opinion, with leave to the parties to
amend their pleadings if they shall be so advised.
REVERSAL

AND REMAND

ACCORDINGLY.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. POLLARD.
1. Stokes v. Saltonstall (13 Peters, 181) affirmed; and on a suit for injury to
person, against a railway company carrying passengers, the doctrine

again declared to be that if the passenger is in the exercise of that degree of care which may reasonably be expected from a person in his
situation, and injury occur to him, this is prima facie evidence of the
carrier's liability.
2. Whether a passenger in a rail car, standing up in it, when getting into
the station-bouse, at the close of the journey, but before an actual stoppage of the car, is guilty of negligence in the circumstances of the case,
is a question of fact for the jury to decide under proper instructions.

RAILROAD COMPANY V.

POLLARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
3. In courts of the United States under section 858 of the Revised Statutes,
which enact (with a proviso excepting to a certain extent, suits by or
against executors, administrators 6r guardians) that in those courts, no
witness shall be excluded in any civil action because he is a party to or
interested in the issue tried, parties to a civil suit (the suit not being
one of the sort excepted by or against executors or guardians), may testify by deposition as well as orally, there being, under the act of Congress, no difference between them and other persons having no interest
in the suit.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of New Jersey;
the case being thus:
By the practice in the courts of New Jersey, after a plaintiff rests his case, the defendant may move for a nonsuit;
and if the court refuses to grant one, a bill of exceptions
may be asked for, and on writ of error brought, the plaintiff in error may assign for error the refusal to grant the
nonsuit.
By an act of Congress, approved June 1st, 1872,* it is enacted,

"That the practice . . . and forms, and modes of proceeding, &c., in the Circuit . . . Courts of the United States shall
conform as near as may be to the practice . . . and forms and
modes of proceeding existing at the time in like cases, in the
courts of record of the State within which such Circuit
Courts are held."
In this state of the law, in June, 1871, Mrs. Pollard, a
resident of Chicago, had taken passage by railroad, on
a connecting line of roads, one of which was owned by
the New Jersey Railroad Company (the defendant in this
case), for herself, her two sisters, and her own daughter, a
child of about thirteen years old, from Chicago vid Philadelphia to New York; the purpose of the journey being
refreshment in the summer and general improvement to
health. The travelling party were in a Pullman palace car,
and occupied what is known as a "section" of it. This
section was near the middle of the last car of the train
* Revised Statutes of the United States,

914.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. POLLARD.
Statement of the case.

where it was used for travelling and not for sleeping. It
had two double seats, one at each end of the section, facing
each otber, so that persons who occupied the seat nearest
the forward part of the car had to ride with their backs to
the engine.
On the arrival of the party at Philadelphia, the train was
composed of five passenger cars and a baggage car. But
it being now the season of fruit, five fruit cars were added
to the train before setting off for New York; these being
put on to it between the locomotive and the passenger train.
The train thus made up had in it eleven cars. Some freight
cars were added afterwards.
Continuing their journey towards New York by night,
when the train came within about thirty miles of the lastnamed city, or rather of Jersey City just opposite to it-it
being now half-past five o'clock in the morning-the servant
in charge of the Pullman cars aroused the passengers in
them, informing them that they were reaching the end of
their journey. Mrs. Pollard got up, and having with no
unreasonable delay as it seemed dressed herself and her
child, began to arrange the child's hair, brushing and plaiting it. She was standing in the section which her travelling party had occupied, with her back to the seat in which
she had been sitting, and so looking towards the rear of the
cars, the child standing before her. During this operation
'of arranging the child's hair, and when within about one
hundred yards of the depot at Jersey City, the whole train
was switched off upon a sidiug. The four passenger cars
and the baggage car were detached or uncoupled from the
fruit and freight cars, were attached' by the drill-master to
his engine, taken back over the same road beyond the
switch, which was then adjusted to allow the cars to enter
the passenger depot, and were then backed into the usual
landing-place for the passengers. In this operation and just
as the train was about to stop-the cars moving very slowly,
so much so that some passengers at the moment were getting out of them on to the platftrm-one car bumped against
another with a certain degree of force, and Mrs. Pollard was

RAILROAD COMPANY V. POLLARD.

[Sup. or.

Statement of the case.

in some way thrown against the arm of the seat in which
she had been sitting, striking, as testimony tended to prove
must have been the case, the lower part of her spinal cord;
a part of it which, as is known to medical men and surgeons,
is very susceptible to anything like a blow, and which,especially in case of women,-it is dangerous to fall upon.
Mrs. Pollard was rendered quite unconscious by the blow,
and the train being now completely stopped, she was carried
by four men into a hotel near the station, where medical aid
was soon obtained. Having been finally coiveyed to her
home in Chicago, it was soon found that the whole region
about the lower part of the lumbar vertebroe and the sacrum
was much injured, and that partial paralysis of the lower
limbs was supervening. This went on, and power of locomotion, of course, was ultimately much impaired. Mrs.
Pollard accordingly brought suit-the suit below-against
the New Jersey Railroad Company, on whose road the accident occurred.
On the trial the conductor of the car testified that Mrs.
Pollard "told the doctor at Jersey City that she had a weak
back;" and the porter of the car testified, that at the same
place he "heard her tell one of her sisters who had been
travelling with her that she was sorry for the accident, because she was on her way for health; that her back had
never been strong." These statements, however, were denied by Mrs. Pollard and the sister.
There was testimony offered by the railroad company
which tended to show that on all their cars they used the
best sort of "buffers" to deaden the concussions which are
unavoidably incident to stopping a train of cars; that the
bumping in this case was not greater than what is usual in
coming to a stand in the station-house; and that by some
persons it had not been even observed.
On the other hand, testimony was given to show that the
company did not use the buffers known as Miller's, which
the plaintiff alleged was the best sort to deaden the concussion, and testimony tending to show also that in the present
case the jar had been unusual and violent.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. POLLARD.

345

Statement of the case.

One of the witnesses by whom the plaintiff's case was
sought to be made out was herself. She had been examined
de bene esse in Chicago and her evidence, thus given, was
read on the trial of the case at Trenton, New Jersey, she
being at the time in Chicago, Illinois, and unable to travel.
This deposition was offered and received in pursuance of
section 858 of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
which enact as follows:
"In the courts of the United States, no witness shall be excluded in . .. any civil action because he is a party to or interested in the issue tried."
The same section, after excepting the cases of actions by
or against executors, administrators, or guardians, continues:
"In all other respects, the laws of the State in which the
court is held, shall be the rules of decision as to the competency
of witnesses in the courts of the United States in trials at common law, and in equity and admiralty."
The reading of the deposition was opposed by the defendants, on the ground that it was not lawful, either by the
acts of Congress or by the acts of the legislature of New
Jersey, to use in evidence the deposition of a party, and because, as the defendants insisted, the testimony of the plaintif, she being a party to the cause, could only be taken in
the presence of the court and jury.
On its admission by the court, an exception was accordingly sealed.
The plaintiff having rested her case the defendant moved
for a nonsuit, on the ground that there was such contributory negligence on the part of Mrs. Pollard, as shown by
her standing in the car, her position and occupation at the
time of the accident, as would prevent a recovery; and that
there was no such negligence shown on the part of the defendant as would warrant the case to be submitted to a jury.
The court refused a nonsuit.
This refusal was the subject of another exception.
The evidence being concluded, the plaintiff's counsel requested the court to charge-

RAILROAD OOMPANY V. POLLARD.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.
"That while the plaintiff was bound to satisfy the jury that
the injury was caused by the negligence of the defendants, if
from the evidence the jury were satisfied that the injury was
occasioned while Mrs. Pollard was a passenger on defendants'
road, and that she was in the exercise of ordinary care, namely,
that degree of care which may be reasonably expected from a
person in her situation, this would be primdfacie or presumptive
evidence of the dMfendants' liability; and that the plaintiff
would not be required to show by what particular acts of misconduct or negligence on the part of the defendants the injury
was occasioned."
The court charged that the law, as decided by this court in
Stokes v. Saltonstall, reported in 13th Peters,* was in accordance with what the request thus made assumed it to be. But
told the jury also, to be careful not to consider any presumption against the defendant, until they were satisfied by affirmative proof on the part of the plaintiff that Mrs. Pollard was
in th6 exercise of reasonable care and caution when the injury was sustained.
The defendants' counsel asked the court to charge"1st. That the facts of the case were not of that character
which would warrant on the part of the jury an inference'that
the defendants were guilty of a want of care and skill; and that
the jury must look to affirmative proof of want of care and skill
in coming to a verdict.
"2d. That the facts were not such as to warrant the conclusion that there was a want of care on the part of the defendants."
The court declined to give either one of these instructions; assigning as the ground of refusal that in the present
case the facts were not clear and uncontradieted, and that it
was only when they were that the court could direct the
jury as to the inferences which the law drew from them.
The same counsel further asked the court to charge:
"3d. If, under all the facts of this case, the jury are unable to
find how or in what manner the injury was caused, then that
S

* Page 181.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. POLLARD.
Argument for the railroad company.

there would not be sufficient proof of negligence or want of
skill on the part of the defendants as to enable the plaintiff to
recover."
The court, in reply to this request, charged as follows:
"If this prayer means that the jury has no right, from the
facts and circumstances proved, to infer negligence or want of
skill and care on the part of the defendants, unless they are able
to find how and in what manner the injury was caused, it is not
a proper request in the present case, and I decline to charge
the jury in accordance with it. There is no controversy but
that the injury was the result of the fall of the plaintiff against
the arm of the seat in the car, and the charge already given
covers the extent of the responsibility of the defendants, and
under what circumstances the law holds them liable in damages."
The same counsel further asked the court to charge:
"If the jury find from the facts of the case that both parties
were negligent, there can be no recovery."
The court, in reply to this request, charged as follows:
"This prayer is correct, with this qualification, provided that
the jury are of the opinion that the negligence of the plaintiff
was of such j character as to contribute to the injury, and that
such injury would not have resulted if she had not been guilty
of negligence."
The jury having given a verdict in the sum of $8000 for
the plaintiff; and judgment being entered accordingly, the
case was brought here on the refusal to nonsuit, on the admission of Mrs. Pollard's deposition, on the charge as given,
and on the refusals to charge as requested.
Mr. J. W. Scudder, for the railroadcompany, plainliffin error:
1. The plaintiff should have been nonsuited. The accident
was an ordinary incident of railroad travel. There was
nothing unusual in the motion of the cars. Mrs. Pollard
should not have been standing up at the moment of bringing the train to, plaiting her child's hair. If she chose to be
then so engaged she should have been seated. A jar in the

IRAILROAD COMPANY V. POLLARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the railroad company.

moment of coming to almost always happens. Persons
should not be in a position in which, when it occurs, they
will probably be injured. We assume that in any court of
New Jersey the plaintiff would have been nonsuited. The
act of Congress of June 1st, 1872, made it obligatory on the
Circuit Court to follow the same practice and mode of proceeding.
2. The charge given, with a slight addition by way of
qualification, in conformity with the plaintiff's request,
while it conformed to what was said many years ago by this
court, in Stokes v. Saltonstall, does not entirely conform with
what has received the sanction of later cases in this court,
and in cases elsewhere in courts-of first authority.* The
later cases go to say more distinctly than does that case,
that in suits against common carriers the negligence of the
defendant cannot be presumed by reason of the proper care
on the part of the plaintiff. There must be positive proof
on the part of the plaintiff of the negligence of the defendant.
3. As to the prayers of the defendants. The first and second
were sound propositions as applicable to the case. They
were not designed, as the court erroneously supposed, to
withdraw the case from the determination of the jury; but
to have the court state to the jury that thy must not be
controlled by inference, but must rely only on facts affirmatively proved.
The third prayer was certainly reasonable. The whole
journey was one for the improvement of health. Two witnesses swore that Mrs. Pollard had said she had a weak
back; a spinal disease,. probably. It was really douibtful
whether this fall in the car produced the ultimate paralysis.
In view of these facts the request was proper to be made.
So as t9 what the court said in reply to the defendants'
request to charge as to contributory negligence; a matter
Parrott v. Wells, 15 Wallace, 524; Transportation Co. v. Downer, 11
Id. 134; Tourtelott v. Rosebrook, 11 Metcalf, 460; Robinson v. Fitchburg
and Worcester Railroad, 7 Gray, 97; Hammack v.White, 11 Common
Bench, New Series, 588 (103 English Common Law); Curtis v. Rochester
and Syracuse Railroad Co., 18 Now York, 543 (4 Smith).

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAb COMPANY V. POLLARD.

349

Argument for the passenger.

which, in truth, was involved in the motion to nonsuit.
Mrs. Pollard was aware of the approach to the depot; she
had been told to get ready to leave the- car; she knew, or
ought to have known, that, at the terminus of a road, trains
are stopped and started again, frequently before the passengers can get out at the place of departure; and if, under
such circumstances, she placed her child before her and
used both of her bands in combing the child's hair, so that
she could not readily obtain support when a change in the
motion of the train took place, the position in which she
placed herself was the cause of the injury. If such position
materially contributed to the injury it would be contributory negligence, and she could not recover.*
As to the admission of Mrs. Pollard'sdeposition. [The counsel here conceding that a party to a case might testify orally,
went into a critical examination of various statutes of the
United States, an* of New Jersey, to show that he could
not testify by deposition taken de bene esse.]
Jr. A. A. Abbott, contra, argued that no one of the matters
assigned for error presented fair ground, even for question.
It is settled in the Federal courts that a plaintiff cannot
be nonsuited against his will if he has given any evidence
to sustain his case ;t and such evidence was given here.
Stokes v. Saltonstall was a solemn decision, never seriously
brought into question.
The requests made by the defendants for charges would
have {;rested questions of fact from the jury.
Teas v. Chilest has opened the door to parties testifying
in a case as wide as it previously was to disinterested witnesses.
Moore v. The Central Railroad. Co., 4 Zabriskie, 268; Runyon v. The
M
Central Railroad, 1 Dutcher, 568; Telfer v. The Northern Railroad Co., 1
Vroom, 191; Willett's Administrator v. The Buffalo and Rochester Railroad
Co., 14 Barbour, 585, 589; Winship v. Enfield, 42 New Hampshire, 197.
t Elmore v. Grymes et al., 1 Peters, 469; D'Wolf v Rabaud, lb. 476;
Crane v. Morris's Lessee, 6 Id. 598.
$ 21 Wallace, 488.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. POLLARD.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

We ask that the judgment should be affirmed, with damages at the rate of ten per cent. in addition to interest, in accordance with Rule 23 of the court.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
It is unnecessary to decide. in this case, whether the act
of June 1st, 1872, by which the practice, pleadings, forms,
and modes of proceedings, &c., in the Circuit and District
Courts of the United States are made to conform as near as
may be to the practice, pleadings, forms, and modes of 'proceedings in the courts of the States, gives to the Circuit
Courts the power to order a nonsuit against the will of the
plaintiff in States where that power exists in the State courts,
because, upon an examination of the record, we are all of
the opinion that the evidence submitted by the plaintiff was
sufficient to justify the court in leaving the case to the jury.
It is conceded that the part of the charge to the jury excep'ted to, is fully sustained by the decision of this court in
Stokes v. Sallonstall. We see no necessity foi reconsidering
that case.
There was no error in the refusal of the court to charge
the jury as requested by the defendants. Each request involved the determination of a question of fact by the court,
where there was, to say the least, a conflict of evidence.
We have decided at the present term, in Texas v. Chiles,*
that in the courts of the United States parties to a suit are
by acts of Congress put upon a footing of equality with
other witnesses and are "admissible to testify for themselves
and compellable to testify for the others."
This disposes of all the errors assigned in this case.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

N. B. No punitive damages were given.
* 21 Wallace, 488.

