Oct. 1874.]

IN lRE CHILES.
Syllabus.

petitioning creditors should have owing to them from the
debtor they wish to pursue, debts provable under the act to
the required amount. The English cases referred to in the
argument, in our opinion, have no application here. They
are founded upon the English statutes and the established
practice under them. Our statute is different in its provisions and requires, as we think, a different practice.
This is conclusive of the case. The petition filed in the
bankrupt proceedings distinctly averred that the debts due
the petitioner exceeded the sum of $250; and, if interest is
added, the particular indebtedness specified amounts to
more than that sum. The court found this allegation true.
That finding is conclusive in a collateral action. We have
so decided in Michaels v. Post,* at the present term. Where
the record shows j urisdiction, an adj udication.of bankruptcy
can only be assailed by a direct proceeding in a competent
court. Evidence, therefore, to show that payments had been
made which reduced the indebtedness below the required
amount was inadmissible under any form of pleading in an
action like this, but it was especially so in this case, because
there is no averment in the pleadings contradicting the
record. The sole objection is that upon the face of the
record the error is apparent. A record cannot be impeached
without previous notice by proper form of pleading.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

IN RE OHILES.
1. In the original decree in the case of Texas v. White 6- Chiles (7 Wallace,
700), the defendants were perpetually enjoined from setting up any
claim or title to any of the bonds, or coupons attached to them, which
were the subject-matter of the suit. The bill, answers, and proceedings
in the case show that the purpose of the suit was to establish the title of
the State to these bonds, and to free it from the embarrassment of the
claim of defendants.
* 21 Wallace, 398.

IN RE CHILES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of -the case.
2. All parties to the suit were, therefore, bound by the decree as to that
title, and because Chiles was the owner, or now asserts himself to be the
owner, through a transaction not set up in his answer, he is not the less
concluded and bound to obey the above injunction.
3. Notwithstanding he now asserts a different title, or source of title, held
by him when the suit was brought, from the one imputed to him in the
suit and defended by him, he is in contempt of court in setting up and
seeking to enforce his claim.
4. Punishments for contempt of court have two aspects, namely: 1. To vindicate the dignity of the court from disrespect shown to it or its orders.
2. To compel the performance of some order or decree of the court.
which it is in the power of the party to perform and which he refuses to
obey.
5. In the present case there is -no part of the original decree which Chiles
can perform which remains unexecuted, and no additional order or decree can be mhde for him to perform in this proceeding for contempt.
6. The court, therefore, sentences him to a fine of $250 and costs for his contempt in setting up a claim of title to seventy-six of the bonds mentioned
in the decree.

ON motion by the State of Texas for a rule on John Chiles

to show cause why he should not be dealt with as guilty of
a contempt of this court in disobeying one of its decrees,
and why he should not by proper instrument convey to the
said State all his right, title, and interest to seventy-six certain bonds of the United States now in the possession of
Droege & Co., of London.
The case was thus:
On the 12th of January, 1863-the State of Texas being
then in rebellion against the United States-certain persons
calling themselves its Military Board, and who were possessed, under a statute of the then so-called State, of actual
power within its confines-entered into a contract with a
certain G. W. White and J. Chiles, by which, in consideration of military stores to be furnished to the State, the State
was to sell and transfer to them certain bonds of the United
States which, long before the rebellion, the United State6
had given to the State of Texas as an indemnity for the surrender of certain territory claimed by it; and which bonds
were thus known as the Texas Indemnity Bonds.

Oct. 1874.]

IN

RE CHILES.

Statement of the case.

Two lots of bonds were mentioned in this contract.
of them was thus:

One

"2d. Seventy-six bonds with coupons attached, principal and
interest amounting to $87,400, said seventy-six bonds and
coupons supposed to be upon deposit with Droege & Co., England."
The rebellion -being suppressed, and the government of
the State of Texas having passed again into the hands of
persons loyal to the United States, the State filed a bill in
this court against White &' Chiles, one J. A. Hardenberg and
several other persons, to establish* its title to and to get
control and possession of these bonds, or of their proceeds.
The case is reported in 7th Wallace, page 700.
The bill recited the circumstances under which the United
States issued and the State of Texas received the bonds
known as the Texas indemnity bonds, and then alleged that
these bonds fell into the hands of a combination of conspirators, who, assuming to be the lawful government of the
State of Texas, sold them to White & Chiles, delivering one
hundred and thirty-five of them, and selling the seventy-six
above mentioned, which were then deposited with Droege &
Co., in England. It alleged that the contract of sale by the
military board of Texas, and the statute under which that
board acted were void, because the object and purpose of
both were to aid the rebellion in its efforts to overthrow the
government of the United States; and it alleged that the
bonds were not legally transferred for want of the indorsement of the governor of Texas, which, by a statute of that
State, was made necessary to any legal transfer of them.
There was thus an assertion of title and ownership of these
bonds both in law and in equity in the plaintiff, the State of
Texas, with a recital of the origin and state of that title.
There was then an allegation of three distinct grounds on
which the claim of the defendants was charged to be invalid:
1. That their possession was obtained through an unlawful
baud of conspirators who, taking possession of these bonds
and of the political power of the State, had delivered the

160

IN RE CHILES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

bonds to White & Chiles, without any authority to do so.
2. That such bonds could not be lawfully delivered or transferred so as to carry the title of the State to them to any
person without the indorsement of the governor, which none
of these bonds had. 3. That the contract under which
White & Chiles received the bonds delivered to them, -nd
claimed title to those not delivered, was void, because made
with the intent to aid the rebellion.
A copy of this contract was set out as Exhibit "_A"
of the
bill, and mentioned, as already stated, specifically the seventy-six bonds.
White & Chiles filed separate answers to this bill, and
took issue either as matter of law or of fact on all these
grounds of complaint. They asserted the justice and legality
of their title to the bonds and to all of them; and of course
denied the right of the State to recover of them or of their
vendees either these bonds or their proceeds in the treasury
or their value.
On the 12th of April, 1869, a decree was entered in the
case. It ordered-I
"That the contract bearing date the 12th January, 1865, purporting to have been executed between the military board of
the State of Texas and White & Chiles-which said contract is
set forth as Exhibit A to the complainant's bill of complaintis null and void and of no effect, and that the said White &
Chiles, their agents and attorneys, and all.others claiming to
act in their behalf. be perpetually enjoined from asserting any
right or claim under the same, and that the complainant is entitled to recover and receive the bonds and coupons mentioned
in said contract as having been transferred or sold to the said
White & Chiles, which at the several times of service of process
in this suit were in possession or under the control of the defendants, respectively, and any proceeds thereof which have
come into such possession or control with notice of the equity
of the complainant.
"That the said G. W. White, John Chiles, J. A. Hardenberg, &c., and each of them, be hereby perpetually enjoined from
setting up any claim or title to any of the bonds and coupons
attached which are described in the first article of said contract

Oct. 1874.]

IN

:RE CHILES.

Statement of the case.

filed as Exhibit A to the bill of complaint, and that the above
complainant is entitled to restitution of such of the bonds and
coupons and proceeds as have come into the possession or control of the said defendants, respectively, and as aforesaid."
By the terms of the decree each party had leave to move
for further orders.
In this state of things, Chiles, on or about the date of it,
addressed and served on Droege & Co. this notice:
I July 17th, 1874.

"MissRs. DROEGE & Co.,
,'Manchester, England.

"You are again hereby notified that I am the owner, by contract with the State of Texas, of seventy-six Texan indemnity
bonds of one thousand dollars each, and coupons attached,
amounting in all to $87,400; and also of the balance of one
hundred and fifty-one of said bonds, with coupons attached,
placed in your custody by John Milton Swisher, of Texas. And
you are hereby notified not to part with the possession of said
bonds and coupons or any portion of them without due authority
from me.
"My solicitors will wait upon you with the necessary process
to bring the matter before a judicial tribunal as soon as the
proper preparations can be perfected.
"JoHN CnILEs."

The State of Texas now, accordingly, made the motion on
which the present rule to show cause was granted.
The petition on which it was granted charged that Ohiles
had continually and repeatedly asserted a claim to seventysix of the bonds mentioned in the said decree, thereby seriously impeding a settlement and compromise by the State
of Texas with persons who have possessi6n of such bonds
in England, and especially charging him with writing and
serving the preceding notice to Droege & Co., as also a certain
other notice to other persons in England, having some sort
of relation to the proceeds of some of these Texas indenity
bonds; this last notice, however, not being much pressed
by the counsel of Texas as a feature in the case, and the reliance being on the notice to Droege & Co. as to the seventyVOL. XXII.

11

IN RE OHILES.

[Sup. Ct

Argument against the motion.

six bonds, which were distinctly referred to in the bill in the
original suit.
In answer to the rule to show cause, and in answer to interrogatories propounded to him by the complainant's counsel, Chiles admitted that he signed the abovementioned notices in the city of New York and caused them to be served
on the parties, and that he had claimed, ever since the decree in the original case, and did now claim, as owner, the
seventy-six abovementioned bonds. But he denied that he
was guilty of any contempt or violation of the injunction of
this court, on two grounds:
1st. That the decree of the court only enjoined him from
asserting a claim under the contract between White & Chiles
and the military board of Texas, which was tLe Exhibit "A"
mentioned in the decree, whereas the title which he now
asserted to all the bonds, including the seventy-six, was, as
he alleged, under a wholly different contract made by himself alone, on the 4th of March, 1865, with the said military
board (which he deemed was the proper authority of the
State of Texas), after the one which was declared void by the
decree of this court, but before the suit was brought. And
that in that last contract White had no interest whatever.
He added that being in no wise forbidden, or not at full liberty to assert a claim as owner to the said bonds thereunder,
he proposed to have the question of his right to the said
bonds thereunder adjudicated by the proper court in England.
2d. That there could be no violation of the injunction
until he asserted his claim by some kind of judicial proceeding, -which he had not yet attempted to do.
The question therefore was whether, on this petition and
answer, he could be properly punished for a contempt.
Mr. Albert Pike, against the rule:
I. The object of the original suit was to annul the contract made with White C (hiles. It had no other object.
The injunction was buit a mode of giving effect to the decree
annulling it. And no other contract being mentioned in

Oct. 1874.]

IN RE OHILES.
Argument against the motion.

the suit or decree, the injunction cannot lawfully have the
efect to forbid the assertion of right under any other. It
can annul no contract that was not asked to be annulled,
and properly impeached; certainly not by implication, one
of the existence of which it was not even informed.
Although the second contract was made long before the
decree, it had taken no effect at all as a transfer of the
seventy-six bonds, until by the decree the first contract was
annulled. Until then Chiles had no title under it, to these
bonds, which lie could set up. He could not plead a title
before it existed.
Injunctions are granted to suppress vexatious suits; to
remove improper impediments and defences at law; to restrain
alienations of property; to prevent transfers; to prevent
irreparable mischiefs and trespasses; to suppress publications; to compel delivery up of possession and to quiet possession; to restrainfrom carrying on a suit, or entering..judgment in a foreign country, and for a number of other things;
but we find none to prevent a man from saying, orally or in
writing, by way of notice or otherwise, that he has a claim
or right to property or-to evidences of debt of any kind. A
written notice to such effect is no more than an oral one.
If one "sets up" a claim, or "asserts" a claim, so does the
other. Chiles has had the right, ever since the decree was
rendered, to stand at the street-corners and proclaim, if he
saw fit, or to publish and advertise in the newspapers here
and in London, and to tell, inform, advise, and notify to
Droege & Co. that he believed and knew that he had a perfect right to and was the proprietor of the bonds in England
or those which he and White had received under the first
contract, notwithstanding the decree of this court. It is no
contempt of the court to think and to say that its decision in
any case is wrong. The court itself has declared that of its
own decisions, and reversed them; and dissenting opinions
are continual. In the very case of Texas v. Vidle & (/dilesin which the decree which it is now said has been contemned,
was given-there were dissenting opinions by Grier, Swayne,
and Miller, JJ.; the opinion of each of them going to the

IN RE CHILES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the motion.

foundation of the case,-the right, to wit, of the State of
Texas to sue at all.
Besides, these bonds are in England, under a: sovereignty
distinct from any which this court has anything to do with.
This court had no power to compel Droege & Co., or any
other man in England, to come into these precincts, or to
pass upon inoney held by them.
In the inquiry whether Chiles has violated the law, the
decree is to be construed in his favor, and against the plaintiff.- 1st, because it is penal in its nature; and 2d, because
it is the decree of the plaintiff made in response to his
prayer, and upon the case made by him in his bill.

The decree in this case, indeed, enjoined all the defendants from setting up any claim to any of the bonds described
in the first article of the contract. But a court will always
construe a decree with reference to the issues it was meant
to dcide. However broad and emphatic the enjoining
words may be, the object of the bill in this case was to
avoid and set aside the particular contract attacked by the
bill; and the general words must be restricted, within these
limits.*
IL Chiles has not, according to the legal meaning of the
phrase, or according to its meaning as used in the decree,
set up or asserled a claim to the seventy-six bonds in question,
he not having instituted or commenced any suit, action, or
proceeding whatever, for the enforcement. of any right in
himself to them, or of any interest in them.
Messrs. R. T. Merrick and T. . Durant, contra:
The manifest conclusions to be drawn from a perusal of
the-letter of Chiles to Droege & Co. are, so far as John
Chiles is concerned:
.First. To ignore absolutely all the proceedings in the suit
of Texas v. Whie &. Chiles, reported in 7th Wallace, and to
treat the elements of the thing adjudged therein, so far as
the seventy-six bonds are concerned, as absolutely void.
Graham v. Railroad Company, 3 Wallace, 710.

Oct. 1874.]

IN

RE OHILES.

Opinion of the court.

Second. In violation of the decree and its accompanying
injunction, to again claim the bonds as owner.
Third. To prevent, by the active interposition of Chiles,
the State of Texas from reaping the fruits of the decree in
the said case of Texas v. TV/ile & Cldes.
Any statement which can be made of the case now before
the court shows that this is so, and that Mr. Ohiles is in
contempt. We do not insist upon the grounds for this
assertion. The court will enforce them if it deems it necessa ry.
We now go further; and in view of what Chiles has done
by his notices, in view of- the embarrassments which by
them he has caused and is causing, we ask that he be compelled to execute, under direction of a master to be appointed
in the case, a proper instrument transferring to the State of
Texas inform, the title to the seventy-six bonds in the hands
of Droege & Co. And in view of his plain contempt _f the
court already committed, we ask that he be imprisoned until
he execute such a transfer.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The object of the bill filed by the, State of Texas in the
case of Texas v. While & Chiles, and reported in 7th Wallace,
was to establish the title of the Slate of Texas to the bonds
there claimed, and her bill of complaint made parties, so far
as she knew and could bring them before the court, all persons who denied or contested that title. The bill was framed
as carefully and as fully as it well could be for the purpose
of establishing that title finally and conclusively. If out of
abundant caution the bill sets out all the false and pretended
claims of the defendants, and the grounds on which they
were supposed to be false, that were known to complainant,
is the final decree in her favor to be of'no avail because one
or more of the defendants had another and d different ground
of defence which he did not set up in his answer, nor in any
manner make known to the court?
Mr. White was called on by this bill to defend his title, his
whole title, to these bonds, or to any part of them, or any in-

IN RE CHILES.

[Sup. at.

Opinion of the court.

terest in them. The prayer and object of the bill was to
decide and determine the title, and to give all such relief as
equity could give if the title was found in the complainant.
It would be to trifle with the court to make a proceeding
in equity, designed to give full and final relief, and to administer complete justice, to depend upon the skill and jugglery by which a defendant might conceal some part of his
defence to that suit until it was decided against him, and
then set it up as an excuse for disobejing the final decree
of the court, or hold it out as the basis of another suit for
the title or possession of the same bonds. And whatever
difference of opinion may be found in the authorities, on the
nice distinctions involved in the question of what is concluded in suits at law, and without even the necessity of
going as far as this court has gone in actions at law in holding that all that might have been set up as a defence in the
action must be concluded by the judgment, we are of opinion
that in such a case as this, in a suit in equity, when the obvious purpose of the bill is to establish and adjudicate the
entire rights and title of the parties before the court to the
bonds and their proceeds in all the forms in which they can
be identified, the decree must be final and conclusive on all
the rights of all the parties actually before the court.
As to the meaning of the decree on this subject it is too
plain for argument.
The first paragraph or order declares the contract with
White & Chiles void, and enjoins them and the other defendant from asserting any right or claim under the same;
and it establishes plaintiff's right to said bonds and to their
proceeds.
The second paragraph or order perpetually enjoins the
defendants, including White & Chiles, from setting up any
claim or title to any of the bonds and attached coupons which
are described in .that contract, but does not limit the pro;
hibition to a title under said contract. There can be no use
for these several orders of injunction except to make it certain that defendants are to assert no claim to these bonds,
either under that contract or under any other claim or title.

Oct. 1874.]

IN RE OHILES.
Opinion of the court.

In regard to the second ground of defence no authorities
are cited by either side. The language of the enjoining
order certainly is not limited to a prohibition of a suit in
court. 1or are we satisfied that the purpose and object of
the injunction would be obtained by such a limitation. The
purpose of the suit was, as we have said, to establish the
rights of plaintiff as owners of these bonds and to prevent
further interference or obstruction in the assertion of that
right. As to all the bonds in the possession of the parties,
or when they or their proceeds were within the control of
the court, this purpose was attained by other orders and.
decrees.
But as to these bonds which were in England, all that the
court could do was to prevent by injunction any interference
of the defendants with the efforts of complainant to recover
them, and that was the meaning of the enjoining order of
the court. Is it obeyed or its purpose attained while one of
the defendants asserts openly and continually, "I am the
owner of these bonds notwithstanding the decree of the
court; I shall in another jurisdiction maintain my right to
them by all legal means ?" That such a course would seriously embarrass the complainant in securing her right as
established by this decree there can be no doubt. Would
it be permitted when in a suit to quiet title to real estate
defendant was enjoined from aiy further disturbance of that
title or assertion of his own,'that he could still continue to
slander plaintiff's title, impair its validity, and prevent its
sale, because he stopped short of instituting a suit for the
land? The very ground of bringing a suit to quiet title is
that the disturber, while asserting a claim which is a cloud
on plaintiff's title, refuses to carry it to the test of a trial in
court, and because he refuses to do this a court of equity
stops his mouth. This also is a bill to quiet title, and the
defendant is forbid to set up or assert a title in conflict with
complainant's. This prohibition is not obeyed where the
defendant continues the annoyance and the injury in any
form short of bringing a suit for the bonds.
Without determining how far a mere loose verbal asser-

t
[Sup. Ct.

IN RE CHIL.[u
Opinion of the court.

tion of a right to these bonds could violate the injunction,
we are of opinion that the deliberate service upon those
who had them in possession, of a written notice of his claim
of ownership, with a reference to further judicial proceeding
in support of it, is a violation of the injunction of the court
in this case, and that the defendant, Chiles, is guilty of a
contempt in that regard.
Section 725 of the Revised Statutes declares that the
courts of the United States shall have power to punish by
line and imprisonment for contempts of their authbrity.
And among the cases specially enumerated are "disobedience or resistance by any officer of the court, or by any
party, juror, witness, or other person, to any lawful writ,
process, order, rule, decree, or command of the said courts."
Such has always been the power of the courts both of common law and equity. The exercise of this power has a twofold aspect, namely: first, the proper punishment of the
guilty party for his disrespect to the court or its order, and
the second, to compel his performance of some act or duty
required of him by the court, which he refuses to perform.*
In the former case, the court must judge for itself the
nature and extent of the punishment, with reference to the
gravity of the offence. In the latter case, the party refusing
to obey should be fined and imprisoned until he performs
the act required of him or shows that it is not in his power
to do it.
a

We are -asked by counsel for the State of Texas to act
upon this latter principle in the present case. But it is not
pointed out to us very clearly what act it is in the power of
defendant to perform commanded by the, decree and which
he refuses to do. The bonds are not in his possession or
under his control. He cannot, therefore, deliver them up
as the decree orders. There is no decree that he shall pay
their value. The only order which he is shown to have
violated is the one we have considered, enjoining him from
setting up a claim to them.
* Stimpson v. Putnam, 41 Vermont, 238.

Oct. 187.4.]

IN RE CHtILES.
Opinion of the court.

The petition for the present rule on Chiles asks that he
may be ordered by a proper~instrument in writing to convey
and transfer to the State of Texas all rights, titles, and interest which he appears or pretends to have in said bonds,
and counsel in oral argument says he should be imprisoned
for contempt until he complies with this order.
But the obvious answer to this is that no such order or
decree has been made, and defendant can be guilty of no
contempt in not doing this until he has been ordered to do
it, and he is aware of it. To make an order now, and-then
punish for contempt or disregard of it before it was made,
is ex post facto legislation and judicial enforcement at the
same moment.
It is true that the original decree contains a provision for
further directions in the enforcement of it, and it may be
that such an order as is asked for now would be made on
proper application and proper notice to the parties concerned, but such a proceeding can constitute no part of process for contempt in disregarding an existing order of the
court. The granting or refusal of such an order is governed
by very different considerations, and is to be brought to the
attention of the court by very different proceedings than
such as belong to the one now befoye us.
We are left, then, to the consideration of what punishment we shall impose upon Mr. Chiles for the violation of
this court's injunction in a suit to which he was a party,
where he was fully heard and his rights conclusively decided.
Without further comments, we think it our duty to order
that he pay to the United States a fine of two hundred and
fifty dollars and the costs of this proceeding, and that he
stand committed to the custody of the marshal of this court
until said fine and costs are paid.

Justices FIELD and HUNT dissented.

