OONKOYER V.

SCHAEFFER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

CONNOYER ET AL. V. SCHAEFFER.
1. Under proceedings before the boards of commissioners appointed under the
act of March 2d, 1805, for ascertaining and adjusting the claims to land
embraced in the Louisiana purchase, and the several subsequent acts on
the same subject, where a claimant presents not only the evidence of
original concession, but that also which purports to be the evidences of
title to himself, the confirmation, though made to the original grantee
(or "&o ncessionee," as he is sometimes styled), "and his legal representatives," operates as a grant to the claimant, although the name of the
claimant be omitted in the form of confirmation. Bissell v. Penrose (8
Howard, 317) decides this, and that case is here affirmed.
2. In a suit for recovery of land, under the act of Congress of July 4th,
1836, the plaintiff offered in evidence a written request to the recorder
of lands in and for the Territory of Missouri, to record all registered
concessions found in certain books named, then in his office. But it did
not appear that those under whom the plaintiff claimed, had any agency
in giving the notice, nor that any signer of the paper was interested in
the lands in question, nor that any of them represented those who were
or professed to be so interested. The notice named no claimant, and
described no land, and did not intimate that any one was in fact claiming under the concessions referred to. Held, that the paper was not
such notice of the claim as the act contemplated.

E ROR to the Supreme Court of Missouri; the case being
thus:
An act of the 2d March, 1805,* for enabling claimants of
land in the territory acquired by us from France in the year
1803 (within which territory the present State of Missouri is
included), to have their incomplete titles to lands confirmed
and perfected, enacts that the claimant of such land shall
file within a certain time, with the register or recorder of
]and titles of the district, his notice in writing, together with
every grant, "order of survey, deed, conveyance, or other
written evidence of his claim," and that unless he shall so
file "such written evidence," all his right shall be void.
"Nor shall any grant, . . . deed of conveyance, or other written
evidence," says the act, " w hich shall not be so recorded, as
above directed, ever he considered or admitted in evidence
* 2 Stat. at Large, 326.

Oct. 1874.]

OONNOYER v. SCHAEFFER.
Statement of the case.

in any court of the United States, against any grant derived
from the United States."
The act then provides for the appointment of commissioners, who were to hear and decide in a summary manner
"all matters respecting such claims."
By a subsequent act, one of 21st April, 1806,* the time
for filing the "notices in writing and written evidences of
claims" was extended, but with a similar provision, as to all
claims not so presented being barred, and the evidence of
them not admitted in evidence if not so filed. The act enacts that oral testimony may be heard in support of or opposition to such claims.
Under these acts many old French and Spanish titles in
Missouri were examined and confirmed. But the acts expired before all that were filed could be disposed of. Accordingly new acts were passed; one July 9th, 1832, and
one March 2d, 1833,t providing "for the final adjustment
of land claims in Missouri." These acts provided for a board
of commissioners to "examine all unconfirmed claims to
lands in that State heretofore filed in the office of said recorder according to law;" and enacted that in examining
these clainis heretofore filed, they "shall proceed in the examination in a summary manner, with or without any new
application of claimants." Under these acts, therefore, no
new claim could be filed before the board; the commissioners were only to pass upon the claims already filed.
These statutes being on the statute-book, Louis Labeaume,
on the 27th of June, 1808, gave notice to the old board of
commissioners-that is to say, the board proceeding under
the acts of 1805 and 1807-of his claim to a lot of land-a
common field lot-in the city of St. Louis. The tract had
been conceded in 1772 by the acting lieutenant-governor of
the Spanish government to a certain Franqoise, widow Dodier; Labeaunie, of course, claiming by conveyances under
her.
The conveyance to Labeaume, as filed before the boards
* 2-Stat. at Large, -391.

t 4 Stat. at Large, pp. 565-661.

CONNOYER V. SCHAEFFER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

as evidence of his title, showed two different conveyances
on the same paper. One conveyance was from eight persons
named, who purported to be the right heirs of the widow
Dodier, and was dated 18th August, 1806; one of the eight
persons being a certain Joseph Hortez, who signed the conveyance in behalf of Margaret Bequette, his wife, as one of
the heirs of the said widow. The other conveyance was
from the same Hortez, and in this conveyance he conveys
the tract as having been acquired by him, at a judicial sale,
as the property of the said.widow, made and ordered by the
lieutenant-governor; but the proces verbal (or record, to use
the English term) of which sale and adjudication, the deed
recites had been lost in the secretary's office. This deed
was dated the 23d August, 1806, was acknowledged,, and
with the acknowledgments appended thereto was recorded
in the recorder's office of St. Louis County.
The board before which Labeaume appeared and presented the concession and his derivative title-papers-that
is to say, the board acting under the acts of 1805 and 1807did not confirm his title.
Labeaume himself died in 1821, having made a will by
which he devised all his estate to his widow.
After the passage of the acts authorizing the appointment
of a board to examine claims previously filed according to
law, but not confirmed, a son of Labeaume appeared before
the new board and presented in behalf of his imother as now
representing the original claimant, the claim originally filed
by Labeaume. And in June, 1835, this board reported
"that this claim ought to be confirmed to the said widow

.Dodier or her legal representatives," and it was so confirmed
accordingly, by act of Congress of July 4th, 1836.
In this state of things, a certain Schaefibr (A.D. 1860)
being in possession and now confessedly vested with whatever title was vested by these proceedings in Labeaume,
Oonnoyer, and others (who it was equally admitted was, as
to a part of the premises in controversy, vested with whatever title passed to the heirs of the widow Dodier by virtue of
the confirmation) sued him in ejeetment.

Oct. 1874.]

CONNOYER V.

SCHAEFFER.

Statement of the case.

On the trial, the plaintiffs, already mentioned as heirs of
the widow Dodier, relied on the confirmation as being to
her, and to her legal representatives, contending that from defective execution the deeds upon which Labeaume founded
his derivative title could pass no title, and therefore that
there could have been no confirmation to him made upon
them.
The defendant, who had put in evidence the original
deeds set out in the proceedings of the first board, relied
much more on the confirmation; he contending that the
history of these confirmations of land claims under the
already-mentioned acts of Congress showed that there were
two classes of cases which came before the boards:
1st. Where the claimant exhibited only the original concession and did not attempt to show any title out of the person to whom the concession had been made originally.
2d. Where, with the original concession, there were exhibited mesne conveyances, which the claimant relied on
as bringing the title down to himself.
And that while in the former class of cases nothifig was
established on a confirmation to the original grantee and
his representatives but the title of that grantee, in the second,
under the decision of this court in Bisseli v. Penrose* both
the title of the original grantee and the derivative title to
the claimant were established.
The defendant therefore insisted that the regularity of
the papers accompanying Labeaume's claim could not be
inquired into, as the confirmation when made inured to Labeaume, if living, and if dead, to his legal representatives.
The court in which the ejectment was brought held that
the confirmation of the lot sued for inured to Labeaume,
and those claiming under him, and not to the widow Dodier
and her heirs. As the plaintiffs claimed as such heirs, that
ruling of the court decided the whole case. The holding
being affirmed in the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri, the plaintiffs brought the case here.
8 Howard, 317.
voL. xi.

17

258

CONNOYER v. SOHAEFFER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

The question, of course, was to whom did the confirmation inure? If to Labeaume, then it was an unimportant inquiry whether the title-papers produced by him were imperfectly executed or not. If to the legal representatives of the
widow Dodier, the inquiry was important.
It may be here added, though the thing is scarce worth
reporting, that for the purpose of showing that those from
whom he sought to deduce title were claimants before the
land commissioners, the plaintiff sought to introduce, in connection with the Dodier claim, a certified copy of a request
in writing, as found of record in the office of the recorder
of land titles in and for the Territory of Missouri, signed by
one T. B. Reddick and twelve others, in which these thirteen
requested the recorder, "for the benefit of all parties ioterested, to record the registered concessions in Livre Terrein,
Nos. 1, 2, 8, 4, 5, and 6, on file" in his office. It did not
appear that those under whom the plaintiffs claimed had any
agency in giving this notice. No evidence was offered connecting them with the transaction, nor did it appear that
any signer was interested in the lands or represented any
one who was.
The court in which the ejectment was brought rejected
this evidence; and the Supreme Court, adverting to the
characteristics of it just mentioned, confirmed its action;
adding "that the paper pointed to a ,mass of books, and
asked that certain records should be made, but named no
claimant, described no lands, and did not intimate that any
one was in fact claiming under any of the concessions referred to."
Mr. C. C. Whittelsey, with whom was Mr.-f. A. Cunningham,
for the plaintflfs in error, asserted the true rule of law to be,
that where the board of commissioners omitted all mention
of the person presenting the claim as assignee of the original grantee of the former government, and confirmed the
claim to the legal representatives of the person who held
fhe claim by grant from the French or Spanish governments,
then that the confirmation inured to the benefit of the per-

Oct. 1874.]

CONNOYER V. SOHAEFFER.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

sons showing themselves to be the legal representatives of
such grantee by inheritance as heirs, or by will as devisees,
or by conveyance as purchasers, and did not inure to the
benefit of the party filing the claim, except so far as he sh'owed
himself by plainly good muniments to be the legal representativeby
descent, devise, or purchase.
It was impossible, the counsel argued, to read over the
list of claims filed before the board of commissioners, or
with the recorder of land titles, prior to 1814, and then to
examine the list of confirmations, without observing in how
many cases the commissioners confirmed the claims as
against the United States, but refused to decide that the
claimant was the person entitled to the land by derivative
title. By examining these reports it would be seen that
the commissioners issued certificates sometimes by name to
the person filing the claim, sometimes to the claimant as
assignee, and sometimes to the representatives of the person
under whom the claim was claimed.*
The form "to the original concessionee or his legal representatives" by descent, devise, or purchase, left the question
open to inquiry in a court of justice, to whom the certificate, confirmation, or patent should inure, and thus saved
the officers of the government the necessity of deciding upol
many and difficult questions of derivative title. When,
therefore, the board of commissioners in their action, June,
1835, declared that this claim ought to be confirmed to the
said "widow Dodier or her legal representatives," they
plainly showed that they did not intend to confirm the land
to Labeaume or his representatives by name, for he was not
named in the judgment of confirmation.
• See 2 Land Claims, pp. 563-603; 3 Id. pp. 275-317; Report of Board
of 1832-3, 5 Land Claims; see list of certificates, Nos. 6, 89, 90, 92, 110,157,
169, 185, 199, 207, 215, 225, 256, 267, 270, 275, 280,'284, 28.5, 298, 321, 358,
394, 402, 439, 440, 448, 514, 523, 543, 576, 606, 625, 628, 648, 649, 650, 651,
661, 672, 694, 717, 721, 731, 742, 764, 770, 793, 827, 897, 918-legal representatives of Gab. Dodier, Sr.-942, 943, 953, 968, '979, 1015, 1023, 1123,
1127, 1158, 1159, 1194, 1217, 1218, 1230, 1270, 1272, 1288, 1290, 1291, 1299,
1301, 1303, 1304. Nos. 942 and 943 were the lots in controversy in the suit
of Strother v. Lucas, 12 Peters, 410.

ONNNOYER V.

SCHAEFFER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The assumption that the judgment of confirmation inured
to the benefit of the person who filed the claim in all cases,
when the party presenting the claim presented any evidence
whatever, to show a derivative title from the original concessionee of the former governments, took from the board of
commissioners all authority to pass upon the validity of the
derivative title, and rendered their decision nugatory. Must
they decide in express words that the derivative title was
invalid, and so enter it of record and reject the claim for
that reason, although as against the government the original
claim was equitably entitled to confirmation, or were they
at liberty to put this question by and leave it to be settled
by the courts as advised by the attorney-general?
Of course, if the confirmation inured to Labeaume simply
because he in person appeared to present the claim, that
closed the case; but such a position could not be maintained.
The learned counsel, referring to Bissell v. Penrose,* much
relied on by the plaintiff, contended that if it applied to this
case at all, it was in reality inconsistent with the well-established rule in regard to the confirmation of land claims previously laid down in Strother v. Lucas,t and moreover could
not be reconciled with what of quite late time had been implied in hogan v. Page;T that, in addition, the case could
not be maintained on principle.
The rejection of the copy of the paper signed by Reddick
and the twelve others, was not strongly insisted on.
.essrs. Glover and Shepley, contra, contending that the confirmation inured to Labeaume, relied on Bissell v. Penrose,
in support of that position, arguing that the cases of Strother
v. Lucas and Hogan v. Page were misconceived and misapplied by the learned counsel opposing.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The substantial point of inquiry presented in this case is,
to whom did the confirmation inure?
* 8 Howard, 317.

t 12 Peters, 410.

1;2 Wallace, 605.

Oct. 1874.]

CONNOYER V. SCHAEFFER.

Opinion of the court.

The question which we are thus called on to answer, is
not a new one. If it were, it would certainly not be free
from difficulty. -It has, however, been settled so long that
it has become a rule of pro'perty, and it would produce infinite mischief to disturb it.
Two classes of claims were presented to the commissioners-one where the claimant exhibited with his claim evidence of a derivative title from the qoncedee, the other
where he only produced the original concession without attempting to show his connection with it.
In the latter class of cases the claim, if confirmed, has
been held to have the effect of a confirmation to the legal
representatives of the person to whom the original concession was made. This ruling proceeds upon the theory that
the commissioners passed upon nothing but the merits of
the original concession, having no opportunity to pass upon
the validity of anything else. Of this class, where no evidences of derivative title at all were filed with the concession
is the case of Hogan v. Page.*
But where the claimant presented before the board, besides the original title, evidences of derivative title, it has
been held that the commissioners decided upon both, and
that the confirmation operated as a grant to the claimant,
although his name was omitted in the form of confirmation.
This was expressly ruled in Bissell v. Penrose.t The claim
there was confirmed to Benito, Antoine, Hypolite, Joseph,
and Pierre Vasquez, or their legal representatives, according to the concession. Rudolph Tillier presented the claim
for confirmation and produced the concession, with written
evidence of his title, which would appear to have been imperfect. It was argued there, as here, that the act of 1836
confirms only the Spanish concession in the abstract, but
the court held otherwise, and decided that the title was confirmed to Tillier, the assignee, as claimant. Besides the
general reasoning on which this opinion is based, the de* 22 Missouri, 55; Same Case, 32 Id. 68, and on error, 2 Wallace, 605.

t

8 Howard, 317.

CONNOYER V.

SCHAEFFER.

ESup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

cision in Sroiher v. Lueas,* and the usages of the land office
are cited in support of it.
Shortly after the decision in Bissell v. Penrose, the case of
Boone v. Mooret arose in Missouri. The, confirmation in
that case was to David Cole, or his legal representatives.
The claim was filed by Jesse Richardson, who produced before the old board his derivative title-papers. The Supreme
Court of Missouri held that the confirmation was to Richardson, and not to the legal representatives of Cole, on the
authority of Bissell v. Penrose, and this, too, while evidently
doubting the propriety of that decision. The same point
was again presented to the Supreme Court of Missouri in
Carpenter v. Bannells,t with the same result. The record in
that case shows that James Bankson, as assignee of John
Butler, under an executory contract, claimed the land, and
produced to the board the evidence upon which a confirmation was granted. The judgment o' confirmation, however,
was to John Butler or his legal representatives, but the court
held, on the authority of Bissell v. Penrose and Boone v.
Moore, that the legal effect of this confirmation was to vest
the title in Bankson. The principles in this case are examined and adhered to in the case of the present plaintiffs
against Labeaume's heirs, reported in 45 Missouri, 189.
The case of Carpenter v. Bannells§ was brought to this
court, and it was held, substantially, that Bankson, having
presented the claim and filed his paper title with it, the confirmation inured to him, and that no other representative of
Butler, ,whether hereditary or by contract, had any right,
legal or equitable, to the premises in controversy.
It would seem that these cases should be decisive of the
question at issue. Instead of this the plaiutiffs seek to overturn the authority of Bissell v. Penrose, on which all the
cases rest. It is too late to question the soundness of that
decision. To permit it to be done now would not only unsettle titles to which this decision is applicable, but weaken
confidence in all titles in Missouri growing out of Spanish
* 6 Peters, 772; 12 Id. 458.

j 45 Id. 684.

t 14 Missouri, 420.
19 Wallace, 138.

Oct. 1874.]

HAMPTON V. ROUSE.
Syllabus.

concessions. There can be no hardship in applying the doctrine of Bissell v. Penrose to the facts of this case. After the
lapse of more than sixty years Labeaume's title is disputed
in behalf of persons who never appeared before the commissioners with any claim of their own. In that early day
there must have been great ignorance among the people of
the forms of leg.al papers. And this fact was; doubtless,
considered by the commissioners in reaching the conclusion
which they did.- They treated the papers of Labeaume as
a transfer to him of all the interest that the heirs of Dodier
had in the premises, and having the power to adjudicate the
title to the claimant on such papers as he presented, their
decision, having been confirmed by Congress, whether right
or wrong, is final.
An attempt was made in this case to show that the persons
from whom the plaintiffs seek to deduce their title were
claimants before the board of commissioners, but this attempt wholly failed.* It is unnecessary to discuss the piece
of evidence introduced for this purpose, for the Supreme
Court of Missouri in their opinion have said all that can be
said on the subject.t
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

HAMPTON V. ROUSE.
I. Under a statute which enacts that the "owner," may within a time
named, redeem land sold for taxes, a redemption may properly be made
by a person who has been decreed a bankrupt, the lands having been
his. In the case here before the court there had as yet been no appointment of an assignee, nor assignment and conveyance to such person, as provided for in the fourteenth section of the Bankrupt Act of
1867; and the redemption was made between the date of the decree and
of such appointment.
2. A charge that a person who had been decreed a bankrupt on his own ap.
* See Statement, upra, p. 264.
f Connoyer v. Schaeffer, 48 Missouri, 166.

