Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V.

O'GRADY.

Statement of the case.

sion of the exception to the ruling. of the court in excluding
certain evidence offered by the defendant. Suffice it to say
that the court here is of the opinion that the ruling is erroneous; that the evidence was properly admissible as explanatory of the surrounding circumstances.

Judgment REVERSED with costs, and the cause remanded
with directions to issue
A NEW VENIIE.

UNITED STATES V. O'GRADY.
WY'hen the government means to set up any counterclaim to the claim of a
party suing in the Court of Claims, as ex. gr., when on a suit under the
Captured and Abandoned Property Act, to recover the proceeds of cotton sold under that act, it means to set up a tax, such as what is known
as the "cotton tax,' it must plead that tax by way of set-off or counterclaim to the suit, as is contemplated by the act of March 3d, 1863; or
move for a new trial, under the provisions of the act of June 25th, 1868.
It cannot, after judgment has been given for the amount claimed by the
petitioner, irrespective of such counterclaim, and without any motion
for a new trial having been made, set up and deduct at the treasury the
counterclaim when the amount awarded by the decree of the court is
asked for there.

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
By the act organizing the Court of Claims, A.D. 1855,
power was given to it to hear and determine all claims
agaihst the Uhited States founded upon any law of Congress,
or upon any regulation of an executive department, or upon
any contract, express or implied, with the government of
the United States.*
Doubts, however, were suggested immediately upon the
act going into practical operation and on suits being brought
against the United States, whether the act meant to allow
the United States to file set-offs in such suits, and to give
jurisdiction to the court to hear and determine them in the
APPEAL

* Act of February 24th, 1855 (10 Stat. at Large, 612).
VOL. X=.

41

.642

UNITED STATES V. O'GRADY.

[Sup'. ("t.

Statement of the case.

way usually practiced in suits between private parties. If
the act did thus mean, its meaning was not clearly expressed.
Congress accordingly, by an act passed March 3d, 1863,*
enacted that"In addition to the jurisdiction now conferred by law, the
court shall also have jurisdiction of all set-offs, counterclaims,
claims for damages, whether liquidated or unliquidated, or other
demands whatsoever, on the part of the government, against
any person making claim against the government in said court;
and upon the trial it shall hear and determine such claim and
demand, both for and against the government and the claimant;
and if upon the whole case it finds the claimant is indebted to
the government it shall render judgment to that effect, and such
judgment shall be final, with the right of appeal, as in other
cases," &c.
A still subsequent act-one passed June 25th, 1868t-enacted:
",
That the said Court of Claims, at any time while any suit or
claim is pending before or on appeal from said court, or within
two years next after the final disposition of any suit or claim,
may on motion of the United States grant a new trial in any
such suit or claim, and stay the payment of any judgment
therein, upon such evidence as shall reasonably satisfy said
court that any fraud, wrong, or injustice has been done to the
United States."

These two acts being in force, one O'Grady sued the
United States in the said Court of Claims, to recover the
proceeds of certain cotton, confessedly his, which had been
seized and sold under the Captured and Abandoned Property Act, and which proceeds were now in the treasury of
the United States. That act, providesl that the owner of
such property shall be entitled to receive the residue of the
proceeds thereof, "after the deduction of any purchasemoney which may have been paid, together with the ex12 Stat. at Large, 765.
t 15 Id. 75.
12 Stat. at Large, 820, a.t of March 12th, 1863.

0ct.-1874.]

UNITED STATES V. O'GRADY.
Statement of the case.

pense of transportation and sale of said property, and any
other lawful expenses attending the disposition thereof."
The United States appeared, pleaded various pleas, but*
no plea in the nature of set-off, nor did it make any claim
for or allusion to any sum as due for a "tax" on the cotton
under any act of the United States, approved June 30th,
1804, or any other act, or as due otherwise for any tax.
The Court of Claims having heard the case and allowed
to the United States a deduction from the gross proceeds
for its outlay of purchase-money, expense of transportation,
sale, and other lawful expenses as claimed, decreed in favor
of O'Grady for $72,450.
On O'Grady's presenting his claim as thus fixed for payment at the treasury, the secretary refused to pay it without
the deduction of $4181, which sum he alleged that he had a
right to retain as a tax under acts of Congress, in force at
the time of the capture of this cotton, one of which did confessedly assume to impose a tax of two cents a pound upon
all cotton produced or sold and removed for consumption,
and upon which no duty had been levied, paid, and collected; the tax being made by the act, until paid, a lien
upon the cotton in the possession of any person whomsoever,* and another of whicht enacted that "whenever any
cotton, &c., shall arrive from any State in insurrection
against the government, the assessor shall immediately
assess the taxes due thereon."
This deduction was submitted to under protest, and an
agreement was entered into ' that the rights of the several
parties in respect to this tax are reserved, and remain subject to the decision of the Supreme Court."
To bring the question to this court under this agreement,
a petition was filed-the petition in the present case-praying judgment for $4181.40, the amount of the tax claimed.
The government pleaded that the government "is not indebted to the claimant inthe said sum of money or in any
part thereof."
* 13 Stat. at Large, 16.

t" Act of June 30t;h, 1864,

177, Ib. 305.

UNITED STATES V. O'GRADY.

[Sup. Ct

Argament in support of the secretary's act.

Judgment was given for the claimant, and the govern.
ment now brought the case here.
The sole question thus was whether the secretary was
justified. in withholding the amount for the reason stated by
him, to wit, the debt of the claimant to the government for
the tax of two cents per pound on cotton.
Mr. C. H. Hill, Assistant Attorney- General, for the United
States, appellant:
The cotton itself, on the sale of which the tax was claimed,
was confessedly liable to that tax; the question, much agitated some time, since, about the constitutionality of the
cotton tax, not being here raised.
'Why, then, could not the secretary deduct it?
It has been decided that the government held this sort of
property as trustee for the owners.* This being so, it is
but a reasonable construction of the language of the statute
to hold that the payment of an excise tax due upon the
property, and made a lien thereon, was a lawful expense
attending the trust, which the secretary was justified in
deducting. The deduction of the tax may be assumed to
be made at the time of the payment of the proceeds of the
sale of the cotton into the treasury, and as the statute makes
the amount due certain, no technical assessment of the tax
was necessary.t
Besides, it is not to be presumed that the statute intended
that the owner should be paid the amount of the proceeds
of the cotton and the government lose its lien for the tax.
The sale of the cotton by the government would entirely
destroy the lien unless one subsisted on the proceeds in the
treasury; and construing the act imposing the tax and the
Captured and Abandoned Property Act together, full effect
can be given to both by holding that the lien for the tax remains upon the proceeds in the treasury, and the tax is to
be deducted before payment thereof to the owner.
* United States v. Klein, 13 Wallace, 128.

t Dollar Savings Bank v. United States, 19 Wallace, 227.

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED

STATES V. O'GRADY.

Argument in opposition to the secretary's act.

Messrs. P. Phillips and T. J. Fuller, contra:
We raise no question in this case about the constitutionality of the cotton tax, since the judgment below can be
fully sustained, conceding the tax to be constitutional.
The institution of the Court of Claims was to remove the
anomaly of permitting a party to contracts, express or implied, from an arbitrary decision in his own cause.
Claims against the government were therefore submitted
to the judicial determination of officers, whose tenure of
office under the Constitution was regarded as a guarantee
of independence. Thenceforward, claimants under contracts, express or implied, had a standing in court to enforce them. But under the organizing act the court only
had jurisdiction when an individual was plaintiff and the
United States were defendants.
There thus remained in the hands of executive agents the
assertion of claims in favor of the government. Ordinarily
these could only be enforced by suits in the courts of the
United States. But it often occurred that when a party had
a liquidated admitted claim against the government, he was
met on demand of its payment by the assertion of a claim
due by the party to the government, and on a settlement of
these conflicting rights the claimant had to submit to such
decision as the government agent might make of it.
This presented an evil which the institution of the court
was intended to remedy, and in order fully to remedy the
evil, the amendatory act of 1863 was passed.
If this view of the legislation is the correct one, and it
was the object of Congress, as we suppose, to give to parties
dealing with the government the same protection of the
judiciary as was offered to dealings between individuals, it
follows that any counterclaim which the government had
against O'Grady, should have been presented before the
court was called to adjudge the original claim, and thus enable the claimant to contest its validity or justice and have
judicial action upon the same. It is a violation of the spirit
as well as the letter of the law for the secretary to withhold
his counterclaim-the character of which was fully known

UNITED STATES V.

O'G-RADY.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

to him-to permit a judgment to be rendered in favor of the
claimant, the finality of which is declared by statute, and
then to refuse payment thereof, unless the party should
allow a deduction for an asserted claim on the part of the
government, the amount and validity of which should be
determined by his own judgment.
If, then, the government had any right to the tax, it was
bound to assert that right in the course of the litigation, and
having failed to do so has thereby forfeited it.
In addition to its ability to have set up its counterclaim
in pleading, the government had the right to move for a new
trial under the extraordinary provisions of the act of June
25th, .1868.
Having failed to do this, it is precluded in every way from
doing what it now attempts to do, by the act of its Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Judgment was recovered by the claimants for the whole
amount of the net proceds of the cotton in the original suit,
and it is not even suggested that the United States filed any
set-off or counterclaim in that case, nor would it now make
any difference if the claim of set-off or counterclaim had
been filed in that case, for if filed and rejected th. appropriate remedy of the United States was by appeal to
the Supreme Court. Appeal to this court in such a case
undoubtedly would lie; nor was that the only remedy left
to the United States, as the Court of Claims, on motion,
might grant a new trial in such a case, if it appeared that
any fraud, wrong, or injustice had been done to the United
States.*
But the United States did not appeal from the judgment
of the Court of Claims, nor does it appear that any application in their behalf was made to that court for a new trial,
as expressly authorized by an act of Congress. On the contrary, it appears that the United States acquiesced in the
* 15 Stat. at Large, 75.

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V. O'GiRADY.

647

Opinion of the court.

judgment and claimed to deduct from it the amount now in
controversy as due to the government for the internal revenue tax. Such a power is not vested in the Secretary of the
Treasury, nor in any other executive officer of the government, even if it could be; and it is clear that the judgments
of this court, rendered on appeal from the Court of Claims,
if no such power is conferred by an act of Congress, are beyond all doubt the final determination of the matter in controversy; and it is equally certain that the judgments of the
Court of Claims, where no appeal is taken to this court, are,
under existing laws, absolutely conclusive of the rights of
the parties, unless a new trial is granted by that court as
provided in the beforementioned act of Congress.*
By the act of the 8d of TMkireh, 1863, it was provided that
no money shall be paid out of the treasury for any claim
passed upon by the Court of Claims till after an appropriation therefor shall be estimated for by the Secretary of the
Treasury, which provision was of course as applicable to the
judgments on appeal, rendered by this court, as to the original judgments .rendered by the Court of Claims, as the subject-matter of the suit in either case is one "passed upon by
the Court of Claims."t
Either party by virtue of that act was allowed an appeal
to the Supreme Court, but the Supreme Court declined to
take jurisdiction of such appeals, chiefly for the reason that
the act practically subjected the judgments of the Supreme
Court rendered in such cases to the re-examination and revision of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Subsequently Congress repealed the provision conferring
that authority upon the Secretary of the Treasury, and since
that time no doubt has been entertained that it is proper
that the Supreme Court should exercise jurisdiction of appeals in such cases.ยง
Judicial jurisdiction implies the power to hear and determine a cause, and inasmuch as the Constitution does not
*Ex

parte Russell, 13 Wallace, 664. *

: Gordon v. United States, 2 Wallace, 561.

j 12 Stat. at Large, 768.
14 Stat. at Large, 9.

UNITED STATES V.

O'GRADY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

contemplate that there shall be more than one Supreme
Court, it is quite clear that Congress cannot subject the
judgmeuts of the Supreme Court to the re-examination and
revision of any other tribunal or any other department of
the government.
Opposed to that is the suggestion that the internal revenue
tax is a lien upon the property taxed, and that the lien, when
the property is sold, is transferred to the proceeds of the
sale, as in the case of a maritime lien when the res is sold
and the proceeds of the sale have been paid into the registry
of the court. Whether that is so or not is not a question in
this case; but suppose the question is presented, it is a suf.
ficient answer to the suggestion, that the United States, if
they desire to enforce such a right, must seek some other
remedy than the one pursued in the case before the court,
as it is clear that when such a claim as that preferred by the
claimants in the original petition passes into judgment in a
court of competent jurisdiction it ceases to be open, under
any existing act of Congress, to revision by any one of the
executive departments or of all such departments combined;
Remedies, such as have been suggested, if seasonable, may
be pursued in a proper case, but it will be time enough to
decide the question whether any remedy now remains when
the question is properly presented.
Should it be suggested that the judgment in question was
rendered in the Court of Claims, the answer to the suggestion is that the'judgment of the Court of Claims, from which
no appeal is taken, is just as conclusive under existing laws
as the judgment of the Supreme Court, until it is set aside
on a motion for new trial.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

