Oct. 1874.]

IITCHIE

V. FRANKLIN

COUNTY.

67

Syllabus.

as the record in the cause, and necessary to be examined in
order to a proper understanding of the decree itself. This
makes a record similar to that of a common-law action, the
decree being the judgment of the law upon the allegations
of the parties, and the conclusion which the court deduces
from the proofs. But the conclusions of fact deduced from
the proofs are not spread upon the record in exienso, unless
through the medium of a report made by a master or commissioner.
The eighty-sixth rule in equity, adopted by this court, has
abolished the recital of the pleadings and proceedings in the
decree, and has prescribed the form in which it shall be
couched, as follows: "This cause came on to be heard at
this term, and was argued by counsel; and thereupon, in
consideration thereof, it was ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
as follows, viz.:" here inserting the decree or order. The
decree, it is true, may proceed to state conclusions of fact as
well as 6f law, and often does so for the purpose of rendering the judgment of the court more clear and specific.
The record thus made up constitutes the basis of examination on a bill of review, but it never contains the proofs
adduced in the cause.
An examination of the record in this case does not, in
our judgment, aTord any ground for setting aside the decree made against Day in the original cause.
DECREE REVERSED,

with directions to
DISMISS THE BILL.

The CHIEF JUSTICE did not sit.
dissented.

Mr. Justice DAVIS

IRITCHIE v. FRANKLIN COUNTY.
1. Where a constitution of a State forbids special legislation, an act, demanded by considerations of high justice and by the fact that carelessness in the language of previous statutes has worked the necessity for
the act, may be presumed to have been meant as a curative act, and as

RITCHIE V. FRANKLIN COUNTY.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.
applicable to a particular case as well as to all others similar, and this is
true though the new act be couched in general words only.
2. In a State where, though a statute may require that no bonds be issued
by counties to make roads unless the voters have approved the expenditure, there is nothing in the State constitution which forbids the legislature from conferring on counties the authority to borrow money for the
purpose named without such approval, the legislature can confer on
counties the power to borrow money to pay debts already contracted for
this purpose without such consent.
3. The act of the legislature of Missouri of March 21st, 1868, to authorize
County Courts to issue bonds for the purpose of paying for the building
of bridges and macadamized roads theretofore contracted to be built, is
valid under the constitution of the State, whether the act be considered
as an original act or as one merely curative.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Missouri; in which court one Ritchie filed a bill against
Franklin County, in the said State, and various persons,
holders of its bonds, such as are hereinafter described, to enjoin the county from collecting a special tax levied to pay
the interest on the said bonds, and to compel the holders of
them'to surrender them for cancellation; he, Ritchie, the
complainant, alleging that by the constitution of Missouri
the same were unconstitutional and void.
The case was thus: The constitution of Missouri ordains,

"Article 1. Tqo law retrospective in its operation can be passed.
"Article 4. The General Assembly shall not pass special laws,
. . . establishing, locating, altering the course or affecting the

construction of roads, or the repairing or building of bridges; or
legalizing, except as against the State, the unauthorized or invalid acts of any officer.
"The General Assembly shall pass no special law for any case
for which provision can be made by a general law; but shall
pass general laws providing, so far as it may deem necessary,
for the cases enumerated in this section, and for all other cases

where a general law can be made applicable.
"Inferior tribunals, to be known as County Courts, shall be

established in every county for the transaction of all county
business."
These provisions of the State constitution being in force
as fundamental law, the General Assembly, February16th,

Oct. 1874.]

RITCHIE

v. FRANKLIN COUNTY.

69

Statement of the case.

1865, passed an act empowering and authorizing the County
Courts, for the purpose of opening and keeping in repair
roads, and in order to raise the necessary funds to pay the
expenses of any or all of said improvements, to borrow
money on the credit of the county, and to issue bonds of the
same, "but," said the act, "the said bonds shall not bear
interest at a higher rate than six per cent:, unless by agreement
between the parties, nor shall said bonds, or any of them, be
sold or disposed of at less than par value, that is to say, the
amount called for on their face."
The act proceeded:
"SECTION 3. The said bonds may be made transferable in
such a manner as the County Court by its order may direct,
and the courts shall be authorized to levy a sufficient amount
of revenue annually to pay the accruing interest on said bonds,
and for that purpose may, if it should be necessary, levy a
special tax.
"SECTION 4. Before any expenditure shall be made by the
County Courts for the purposes contemplated by this act, the
County Courts may, for the purpose of information, submit the
amount of the proposed expenditure to the voters of the respective counties, and if a majority of the voters shall approve of
such proposed appropriation, then the court may proceed and
improve the roads as herein contemplated. If a majority shall
vote against such an appropriation, then nothing further shall
be done therein within twelve months," &c.*
Another act, having provisions in words of the same effect,
was passed in 1866. In consequence of the act of 1865 declaring that the submission to the people of the amount of
the proposed expenditure was "for the purpose of information," the County Court of Franklin construed the provision
as leaving it to their discretion whether they would submit
any such question to the people. And being now engaged
in a general scheme for macadamizing the roads of the
county and bridging the streams in it, the County Court
issued a quantity of bonds without submitting the matter to
* Laws of Missouri, A.D. 1865, p. 171.

RITcHIE

v.

FRANKLIN COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the people in any way. The validity of the bonds being denied, the question whether they were valid or not, came
before the Supreme Court of Missouri, in the case of The
Leavenworth and Des Moines Railroad Company v. The County
Court of Platte,* where it was decided that the bonds were
void.
Thereupon, the road having been now built, the Assembly,
on the 21st of March, 1868, passed a new act to authorize
County Courts to issue bonds for the purpose of paying for
the building of bridges and macadamized roads heretofore
contracted for and built.
This act thus enacted:
"SE TION 1. In all cases where County Courts have heretofore
laid out, surveyed, and commenced the building, and have built
macadamized or other roads, or have
built bridges, or
other necessary work in their respective counties, the County
Courts are hereby authorized to borrow money on the credit of
the county, and to issue bonds of the county with coupons
attached, &c.; but said bonds shall not . . . bear interest at a
higher rate than ten per cent., fbr the purpose of paying for the
work done and contracted for in their respective counties.
"SECTION 2. Said bonds may be made transferable in such
manner as the County Court may direct, and the courts shall
be authorized to levy a sufficient amount of revenue annually to
pay the accruing interest on bonds authorized by this act; and
for that purpose may, if it be necessary, levy a special tax.
"SEcTION 3. All acts or parts of acts inconsistent with this
act are hereby repealed."
And, on thie 23d of March, of the same year, it passed a
new road law, in the main like the old one, but with some
modifications, and making it plainly peremptory on the
County Courts to take a vote of the people before issuing
bonds.
After the passage of the act of March, 21st, 1868, the
County Court of Franklin County entered an order on its
records to issue bonds to the contractors to pay for the work
* 42 Missouri, 171.

Oct. 1874.]

RITCItE V. FRANKLIN

COUNTY.

71

Argument for the taxpayers.

done on the road in question, and thereupon the former
bonds were surrendered and cancelled, and a like number
issued and purchased by the defendants inl due course of
business. These. new bonds were made payable to the
bearer, and purported on their face to have been issued by
the County Court of Franklin County, in pursuance of the
act last above mentioned. Roads similar to the one fi which
these bonds were issued were building by the contractors
who were building it, at the same time for the same county;
and the defendants had no means of knowing whether the
bonds they held were issued to pay for the particular road
in controversy. They bought them in good faith for value
without notice of any infirmity of title. The court below,
holding the act of 21st of M{arch constitutional, dismissed
the bill.
The question of the constitutionality of the act, it may be
here added, had been before the Supreme Court of Missouri
in a case between other parties; and that court held that the
act conferred "original power" to issue the bonds without
reference to previous or contemporary laws, and also that it
was " curative" and legalized the unauthorized action of the
County Court and validated the new bonds issued.
The case came here on exceptions to the answer, and the
question to be passed on was whether there was authority
to issue the bonds in controversy.*
Mr. T. W. B. C(rews, for the appellants:
I. The bonds in controversy purport to have been issued under
authority of the act of March 21st, 1868.
They cannot exist under that act.
1: The act gave no original power. This is evident from
its terms. Of itself, it was incomplete. It made no provisiofi for the payment of the principal of the bonds, and it
expressly recognized the binding force of all acts and parts
A question was also raised at the bar as to whether the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Missouri in the case referred to in the text, was a bar to
this action, but the view taken by this court of the authority to issue the
bonds rendered it unnecessary to consider this other question.

RIT0IIIE v. FRANKLIN

COUNTY.

[Sup. (]t,

Argument for the taxpayers.

of acts, under which roads may have been contracted for
and built, except so far as they conflicted with its own provisions. Nothing in the act has the effect to authoirize the
issue of bonds without the vote of the people.
The act of 1865, requiring a vote before expenditures
should be incurred, was in force when the act of March 21st,
1868, was passed, and the whole law was re-enacted at the
same session, with some modifications, and among others a
provision, making it plainly peremptory on the County
Courts, in terms, to take a vote of the people before issuing
any bonds for the purposes expressed in the act. So far
from relaxing, the legislature evidently intended to adhere
more rigidly to the policy previously declared on that subject, and meant to restrain within narrower limits the power
of County Courts.
The several enactments of the acts of 1865 and 1868 should
be construed to be in pari materia. Their several provisions
can stand together and can be consistently reconciled. There
is nothing express or implied that would lead to the conclusion that the one abrogated or was designed to abrogate the
other.
The purpose of the act of March 21st, 1868, was to authorize the issue of bonds bearing ten per cent. interest, and the
sale or negotiation of the same below the par value thereof;
neither of which was allowable under the previous law; and
in these particulars only was the law changed by'this act.
Moreover, the act can properly apply only to work legally
done, and legally contracted for. No other sort of contract
is known- to the law. And such contract could not have
been made but by virtue of and in pursuance of some
previous existing legal authority. The general law of 1865
and 1866 conferred suchauthority, and it was the only law
that did confer it.
Had it been intended to authorize the expenditures without a vote, this purpose would have been indicated-in either
the title or the body of the act. If the omission to take a
vote of the people was a defect, and such a one as needed
further legislation, certainly the legislature would have

Oct. 1874.]

RITCHIE: V. FRANKLIN COUNTY.

78

Argument for the taxpayers.

pointed to this defect in some appropriate and intelligible
language or terms.
2. iNor can the act of March, 1868, be construed to be
"curative" or "confirmatory."
It is conceded that up to the time of the approval of
the act, the bonds then issued were absolutely void. The
County Court had broken down the barriers which the law
had raised, had disregarded the authority which had called
them into being, and had usurped a power which belonged
only to the people. Can we conclude that the legislature,
in this general way, proposed to cure or confirm their proceedings, and to authorize the issue of bonds to pay for
work done or to be done without the sanction of the people?
The act does not purport to be curative. The aim of a
.curative act is always special and particular. Although it
may be general in its application to a class of things or
objects, it is pointed and distinctive as to the cause or the
supposed necessity of it.
The theory of the act of March 21st, 1868, as maintained
by the respondents is that the County Court had acted without authority in incurring such expenditures and issuing
bonds as a means of paying them. If they had not, then
there was no necessity for this act, beyond the purpose of
regulating the rate of interest and the authority to sell the
bonds for what they would bring in the market, in the class
of cases specified in the act. If it were necessary or expedient in this class of cases to authorize the issue of bonds
with a higher rate of interest, and without the restrictions
imposed by previous laws-matters merely incidental and
subordinate-thea it was surely of greater importance in
the estimation of the lawgiver, that there should have been
adequate authority to issue the bonds; that the bonds themselved
should have the required sanction to give them validity.
II. The act in question as construed by the other side is void
under the State constitution.
1. It was plainly retrospective.
2. It affected the construction of roads and was designed
to legalize the invalid and unauthorized acts of county offi-

RITCHIE v. FRANKLIN COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cers. Though expressed in general terms it must have been
framed with a view to meet this case. Its generality was
an attempt on the part of the legislature to evade the provisions of the constitution, which ordains that "the General
Assembly shall not pass special laws . . . affecting the construction of roads," and to accomplish by indirect means
that which it was forbidden to do directly.
Mr. J. 0. Broadhead, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The acts of the General Assembly of Missouri of 1865
and 1866 gave authority to the County Courts to borrow
money and issue bonds for road purposes where "the
amount of proposed expenditure had been submitted to a
vote of the people." The County Court of Fra klin County
construed the provision on the subject of this submission as
discretionary and not mandatory. Although this construction *as wrong, the language used by the legislature gave
color to it.
To declare that a court "may, for the purpose of information," submit its proposed action to the people, is not the
best nor the usual way of instructing the court not to do the
thing proposed unless the taxpayers approved it. Such language is well calculated to mislead any one unaccustbmed
to the construction of statutes, and it cannot be a matter of
surprise that this County Court treated the provision requiring a vote fbr information as discretionary. In doing
this it doubtless acted as other County Courts in the State
had done under like circumstances. That this election
clause should cause litigation was natural enough, and we
therefore find it presented for adjudication in the case of
The Leavenworth and Des Moines Railroad Company v. The
County Court of Platte County.
In that case it was held that the power conferred upon
the County Courts could not be exercised unless the proposed
expenditure was approved by the voters. This decision of
necessity alarmed contractors, who had in good faith con-

Oct. 1874.]

RITCHiE v. FRANKLIN COUNTY.
Opinion of the court.

structed roads, and equally so the holders of bonds issued
for the purpose of paying the contractors for their work.
To relieve these persons from the predicament in which
they were placed the legislature passed a curative act. This
act, on account of special legislation being forbidden by the
constitution of the State, had to be general in its language,
and without reference to any particular county. It was
eminently just that it should be passed. The value of good
roads for the common use of every one can hardly be overestimated. As a general thing, in this country, they are
within the control and supervision of the township, county,
or other local authorities. Ordinarily they are improved
and kept in repair by means of local taxation, but this mode
will not suffice when the wants of the community require
that they should be macadamized. Especially is this true
of a new State like Missouri. It seems that the County
Court of Franklin engaged in a general scheme for mabadamizing the roads of the county and bridging the streams
in it. It is fair to presume that this enterprise was undertaken in obedience to a public sentiment on the subject,
although the sense of the voters was not actually taken in
conformity with the directions of the statute. This is the
more probable on account of the well-known mania of the
people to run in debt for public improvements. The taxpayers saw the large expenditures that were being made,
and yet they took no steps to arrest them. Not until the
works were completed and the securities had passed into
the hands of bonafide purchasers did they move in the matter. If they had been incited to action as soon as the contract was made, they would have been saved a heavy debt,
and innocent persons would not have suffered. In this state
of the case the legislature interposed and passed an act to
authorize County Courts to issue bonds for the purpose of
paying for the building of bridges and macadamized roads
which had been contracted for and built. This act refers to
past transactions, and two days after its passage a new road
law was passed couched in such language that no one could
mistake the character of the powers conferred.

RITCHIE

v.

FRANKLIN COUNTY.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Thus it will be seen the legislhture intended to cure past
errors, but left no room for future ones. In this way it was
enabled to relieve the. hardship caused by the construction
placed on the imperfect language of a former legislature,
and at the same time to put an end to expenditures like
those made by Franklin County, unless a majority of the
voters should approve of them. In many cases retroactive
laws, although intended to effect a good purpose, have features of injustice about them. This is not that case. The
bonds here were issued under a supposed authority, and no
one interposed an objection. The taxpayers rested until the
mischief was done and then tried to get relief. It is cei
tainly not unjust to them that the legislature should say,
"you must pay for an expenditure which you saw incurred
and could have prevented, but did not.", If the County
Court had acted wholly outside of its duties the aspect of
the case might have been different. But the most that can
be said is that the court mistook the nature of the powers
conferred upon it, and that this mistake would never have
occurred if the legislature, had used language appropriate to
the purpose.
There is no provision in the constitution of Missouri restraining the General Assembly from conferring on counties
the authority to borrow money to improve their roads without asking the consent of the voters. If so, why cannot the
legislature confer oil counties the power to borrow money
to pay for debts already contracted for this purpose ?
We agree with the Supreme Court of Missouri, that the
act in question, being an authority to do a particular thing,
may be construed as an original power. But whether it be
treated as an original power or as curative and confirmatory
legislation, it is equally valid, and this is the view taken of
the subject by that court.*
If the act was valid, the cou:t had the power to take up
the bonds and issue others in lieu thereof.
These bonds purport on their face to have been issued
* Steines v. Franklin Co., 48 Missouri, 176.

Oct. 1874.]

MAXWELL V.

STEWART.

Statement of the case.

under the order of the County Court of Franklin County,
made in pursuanc6 of the authority conferred on the court
by the act of Assembly in question, and as the defendants
claim to be innocent holders, and this is true for the purpose
of the exception, the complainant has no standing in a court

of equity.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

MAXWELL V.

STEWART.

1. To make a record of a judgment valid upon its face, it is only necessary
for it to appear that the court had jurisdiction of the subject-matter of
the action and of the parties, and that a judgment had in fact been rendered.
2. A trial by the court without the waiver of a jury is at most only error.
A judgment after such a trial is not necessarily void. Mere errors cannot be set up as a defence to an action brought upon it.
3. When the record of a case, a judgmeht in which is sued upon, shows
that an attachment was issued in it and laid on property appraised at a
less sum than the judgment was given for, a demurrer which makes, in
virtue of the attachment, a defence of payment and satisfaction, is not
good.
4. A seizure of personal property even to the full value of the sum claimed,
under an order of attachment issued during the pendency of an action,
is not necessarily a satisfaction of the judgment when afterwards obtained. The defendant must show affirmatively that it was applied to
and satisfied the judgment.
5. A court will acquire jurisdiction of the person in a suit originally commenced by an attachment in rem, if the party against whom the claim
is set up voluntarily appears and submits himself to the jurisdiction,
demurs, pleads, and goes to trial on issues made.
6. Fraud cannot be pleaded to an action in one State upon a judgment in
another.
7. .Nit debet is not a good plea to an action upon a judgment in another
State.

E ROR to the Supreme Court of New Mexico; the case
being thus:
Stewart sued Maxwell in one of the courts of the State of
Kansas, claiming $7000; and publication having been prop-

