Oct. 1874.]

MORGAN

V.

CAMPBELL.

Syllabus.

tection of the courts. But language is at best a very imperfect instrument in the expression of thought, and the fundamental principles of government found in constitutions
must necessarily be declared in terms very general, because
they must be very comprehensive.
The ingenuity of casuists and linguists, the nice criticism
of able counsel, the zeal which springs from a large pecuniary interest, and the appeal of injured parties against the
bad faith of the legislatures who violate the constitution are
easily invoked, and their influence persuasive with the courts,
as they always must be.
And if language as plain as that we have been considering, a purpose so firmly held and clearly expressed is to be
frittered away by construction, then courts themselves become but feeble barriers to legislative will and legislative
corruption, and the interest of the people, which alone is to
suffer, has but little to hope from the safeguards of written
constitutions.
These instruments themselves, supposed to be the peculiar pride of the American people, and the great bulwark
to personal and public rights, must fall rapidly into disrepute if they are found to be efficient only for the benefit of
the rich and powerful, and the absolute majority on any
subject will seek to enforce their views without regard to
those restrictions on legislative power which are used only
to their prejudice.

MORGAN

V.

CAMPBELL, ASSIGNEE.

1. Under the Landlord and Tenant Act of Illinois, which enacts in its
seventh section that"In all cases of distress for rent it shall be lawful for the landlord, by himself, his agent, or attorney, to seize for rent any personal property of his tenant
that may be found in the county where such tenant shall reside, and in no case
shall the property of any other person, although the same may be found on the
premises, be liable to seizure for rent due from such tenant :"

And enacts in its eighth section that'Every landlord shall have a lien. upon the crops growing or grown upon the
demised premises in any year for rent that shall accrue for such year ;"

MORGAN V.

CAMPBELL.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the cese.
A landlord has no lien upon the personal property of his tenant prior to
an actual levy of distress.
2. If proceedings of bankruptcy are begun by other persons against his
tenant before such warrant of distress be actually levied, the subsequent
assignment in bankruptcy-which assignment the fourteenth section of
the Bankrupt Act. declares "1shall relate back to the commencement of
said proceedings," and "by operation of law" vest in the assignee, the
title to all the bankrupt's property, and estate, "although the same is
then attached on mesne process as the property of the debtor "-will
vest the personal property of the tenant in the assignee, to the exclusion
of the landlord's right to levy on it.
3. It was the object of this fourteenth section to prevent any particular
creditor asserting any lien but such as existed when the petition in.
bankruptcy was filed.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois.
This was a contest between a landlord of demised premises
claiming rent, and the assignee in bankruptcy of his tenants, claiming certain personal property on the premises,
out of which the landlord by distress expected to get his
rent.
The case, which depended more or less upon statute law
of Illinois, in force at the time of the landlord's levy, was
thus:
A statute of Illinois known as its Landlord and Tenant
Act,* enacts as follows, in ce-rtain sections its enactments
bearing on the subject of rent, distress, &c.:
"SE6TION 6. In all cases of distress for rent, the person making the same shall immediately file with some justice of the
peace, in case the amount claimed does not exceed $100, or
with the clerk of the Circuit Court in case it exceeds that sum,
a copy of the distress warrant, together with an inventory of
the property levied upon; and thereupon the party against
whom the distress warrant shall have been issued shall be duly
summoned, and the amount due from him assessed and entered
upon the records of the court finding the same. The said court
shall certify to the person or officer making the same the amount
so found due, together with the costs of court, and said officer
* Chapter 60, 1 Gross's Statutes, 412.

Oct. 1874.]

MORGAN V. CAMPBELL.

3883

Statement of the case.

shall thereupon proceed to sell the property so distrained and
make the amount thus certified to him, and return the certificate so issued to him with an indorsement thereon of his proceedings, which return and certificate shall be filed in the proper
court.
"SECTION 7. In all cases of distress for rent it shall be lawful
for the landlord, by himself, his agent, or attorney, to seize for
rent any personal property of his tenant that may be found in
the county where such tenant shall reside, and in no case shall
the property of any other person, although the same may be
found on the premises, be liable to seizure for rent due from such
tenant.
"SECTION 8. Every landlord shall have a lien upon the crops,
growing or grown upon the demised premises in any year, for
rent that shall accrue for such year.
"SEcTIoN 9. In case of the removal or abandonment of the
premises by such tenant, all grain or vegetables grown or growing upon any part of the demised premises so abandoned may
be seized by the landlord, before the rent is due, and the landlord so distraining shall cause the grain or vegetables so growing to be properly cultivated and perfected, and in all cases
husband such grain or vegetables, grown or growing, until the
rent agreed upon shall become due, when it shall be lawful for
such landlord to sell and dispose of the same as in other cases
of seizure, after the rent shall have become due," &c.
These enactments being in force, one Morgan, on the
18th of June, 1872, leased to Liebenstein & Spiegel certain

premises in Chicago, Cook County, Illinois, at a rent of
$750 per month, payable September 30th, 1872, and oi the
last day of every month thereafter. The lease provided
that if default should be made in the payment of the rent,
when due, Morgan might distrain upon any property belonging to lessees, whether exempt from execution and distress by law or not, and the lessees waived all right to hold
or retain any such property under any exemption laws then
in force in the State of Illinois, or in any other way;
"meaning and intending hereby," said the lease, " to gice the
said party of the first part, his heirs, executors, administrators,or
assigns a valid and first lien, upon any and all goods and chattels,

MORGAN V.

CAMPBELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and other property belonging to the said party of the second part,
as security.for the payment of said rent in manner aforesaid, anything hereinbefore contained to the contrary notwithstanding."
Liebenstein & Spiegel entered into possession of the premises, but paid only one month's rent.
On the 14th of May, 1873, a petition was filed in the District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, by one Harrington, charging Liebenstein & Spiegel with having committed acts of bankruptcy, and praying that they might be
declared bankrupts.
Three days afterwards, that is to say on the 17th of M-ay,
-between seven and eight months' rent ($5250) being now
due-Morgan, the landlord, issued his warrant to the sheriff
of Cook County for distraining the goods and chattels of his
tenants, then on the premises, to pay the rent due; and on
the same day the sheriff did levy the warrant upon them,
and held them under the warrant, on the premises. On the
16th of June, 1873, he filed in the proper court an inventory
of them, and caused a summons in the matter to be issued
against the tenants in the way prescribed by the sixth section of the above-quoted Landlord and Tenant Act, and
served upon them.
Liebenstein & Spiegel, the tenants, were afterwards declared bankrupts, and one Campbell was appointed their
assignee. After his appointment he demanded of Morgan,
the landlord, and his bailiff, possession of the chattels taken
by them in distress, and held under Morgan's warrant of
distress; and against the protest of both .forgan and his
bailiff, took the same and was about to sell them.
Thereupon Morgan filed a bill in the court below to en
join him.
The assignee in bankruptcy demurred to the bill.
The question of course was: Did the law of Illinois, in
force on the 14th of May, 1873, when the petition in bankruptcy was filed, confer on a landlord a lien on the personal
property of his tenant independently of and prior to the levy
of a warrant of distress ?
If it did, then, under the settled rule of bankruptcy law,

Oct. 1874.]

MORGAN V. CAMPBELL.
Argument for the landlord.

the lien would not be divested; proceedings in bankruptcy
never divesting existing liens.*
But if it did not so exist, then the assignee in bankruptcy
would take the property for distribution among the creditors
generally; it being equally settled that no lien can be acquired after the filing of a petition in bankruptcy ;t this, in
virtue of the provision of the fo*urteenth section of the Bankrupt Act, which enacts that on the appointment of an assignee, and on the assignment to him of the bankrupt's
property and estates, the"Assignment shall relate back to the commencement of the
proceedings in bankruptcy, and thereupon, by operation of law,
the title to all such property and estate, both real and personal,
shall vest in said assignee, although the same is then attached
on mesne process as the property of the debtor."
The court below sustained the demurrer, thus deciding
that prior to and independently of an actual levy of the warrant of distress, a landlord had not in Illinois any lien on his
tenant's personal property.
Morgan, the landlord in this case, appealed to this court.
Mr. 1. A. Sleeper, for Morgan, the appellant:
1. We submit that by the common law, and the statute
of the State of Illinois and the law of the State, as expounded and interpreted by its Supreme Court, the lien of
the landlord on the property of the tenant for rent due is
paramount and superior to the right of an execution or attaching creditor, a general assignee for the benefit of creditors, or an assignee in bankruptcy.
In Penny v. Little,++A.D. 1841, the Supreme Court of Illinois had under considerati6ri the question of the right of the
landlord to distrain for rent, and held that the right exEx parte Dalby, re Griffiths, 1 Lowell, 431; Winsor, Assignee of McLellan, 2 Story, 492.
- Stuart v. Hines & Eames, 33 Iowa, 60; Peck v. Jenness, 7 Howard, 612;
In re Wynne, 4 Bankruptcy Register, 5; In re Patterson, Id. Supple1:3 Scammon, 301.
ment, 27.
25
VOL. XXir.

MORGAN

V.

CAMPBELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the landlord.

isted independently of the statute and in virtue of the common law.
The same court had the question of the right of a landlord in, and lien upon, the property of his tenant, under
consideration in O'llarav. Jones,* and referring to Penny v.
Lille, say:
"Under our law the landlord has the lien and the right to
distrain in all cases where the rent is certain, whether the right
to distrain is reserved in the lease or not. And this statutory
lien in favor of the landlord is superior to other junior liens, and
may be enforced against all but prior -liens and bond fide purchasers without notice; and if the goods of a tenant are seized
under execution or attachment, the landlord's lien for his rent
is superior and will hold the property."
And upon these principles, thus laid down, the court decided that an assignee for the benefit of creditors, takes the
property as a mere volunteer, and subject to all liens to
which it is then liable; and that if liens exist upon the property when the assignment is made, they must be first discharged, in the order of their priority, and the remainder
applied in execution of the trusts.
This decision, we submit, controls the subject.
We do not seek to maintain that, before the rent becomes
due, the landlord has either a superior lien over execution
or attaching creditors, or the right to distrain the property
for the rent; but that he, all along, has an inchoate right,
which may not be asserted, and cannot be, until all the conditions upon which his right to distrain are fulfilled; and
that when the conditions are fulfilled, by rent becoming due
and being unpaid, then eo inslanti he may issue his distress
warrant and seize the property.
As the court in O'Hara v. Jones,t says:
"The landlord's lien is like the lien of an execution on personal property of the tenant. . . . He has the power, when the
rent falls due, to issue his execution to his bailiff for collection of
his rent by levy and sale of the tenant's property. The land* 46 Illinois, 288.

t Id. 291, 292.

Oct. 1874.]

MORGAN V. OAMPBELL.
Argument for the landlord.

lord's lien is of common-law growth, and does not depend upon
statutory enactments for its creation. .

.

. But the landlord's

right to distrain is coeval with the entire history of the common
law, and has maintained its energy to the present time."
If anything previously said in Rogers v. Dickey* is different from this-which we do not think is the case-it is overruled by the later decision.
In O'Hara v. Jones the court supply the reasoning which
follows from the facts in Rogers v. Dickey, and hold that
inasmuch as the rent was due March 1st, 1867. and the assignment was made March 9th, 1867, the landlord's lien was
superior to the claim of the assignee. The court put the
decision upon the ground that the rent was due. If the
rent had been due in Rogers v. Dickey We have no doubt that
the landlord's lien would have preceded the execution lieu,
whether the distress warrant had been then issued and levied
or not, provided the distress had been levied before actual
sale, to a bond fide purchaser without notice, by the sheriff
under his execution.
2. No language could be clearer or more comprehensive
than the language of the lease under consideration in this
case. It is undeniable that, by it, the tenants intended to
give the landlord, and that the landlord intended to take
and receive a valid and specific first lien on the property of

the tenants, as his security for the payment of this rent, in
addition to the lien thereon created by the common law and
the statute.
It may be argued that the distress warrant is mesne process, or in the nature or an attachment. Judge Drummond
so held In re Joslyn.t The Supreme Court of Illinois, in
O'Hara v. Jones, say it is an execution issued by the land
lord. They also have said substantially that it is not the
commencement of a suit; that the statute which requires
proceedings in court to ascertain the amount of rent due, is
only in restraint of the execution of the distress warrant,
but that the sale, when made, is made under and by virtue
*1

Gilman, 636.

t2

Bissell, 235.

MORGAN

V.

[Sup. Ct.

CAMPBELL.

Argument for the assignee in bankruptcy.

of the landlord's writ of seizure, which the Supreme Court
calls his execution.
Mr. Adolphe Hoses, contra, for the assignee:
We think it plain that by the Landlord and Tenant Act
ofIllinois, no lien is created as to the personal property of
a tenant; and that the act simply recognizes the commonlaw right of distress, and attempts to regulate it. We concede that as to crops and agricultural products, the statute,
acting upon consideration of public policy, grants a lien.
Our case concerns personal property *alone.
In Volney Stamps v. Gilman & Co.,* it is said:
" The distress at common law was a dormant right to take
the thing into possession as a pledge. If this rightwas not made
active by actual seizure, it was utterly impotent. The landlord's
right (however it may be described) is not ajus in rem; it does
not amount to a legal or equitable title."
This, we submit, is the rule of the common law.
O'Harav. Jones is much relied on by opposite counsel as
changing in Illinois this rule.
The priority of liens under the eighth section of the Landlord and Tenant Law of Illinois had been, previously to that
case, passed upon in Miles v. James, as affecting crops. The
question as to the lien on personal property came up for the
first time before the court in O'Hara v. Jones, and it was
evidently misled by the case of Miles v. James, which represents the difference between a statutory lien on crops and the
right to distrain on personal property at common law, recognized by the statute. The court inaccurately and loosely
speaks of the "landlord's lien," "statutory lien."
A careful reading of the case of Penny v. Little will show
that the court in that opinion carefully treats simply of the
right to distrain for rent, and the phrase "landlord's lien" is
not used in the opinion.
In re Joslyn,t Drummond, J., then district judge, and
since made circuit judge, reviewed this whole subject-matter
* 43 MSississippi, 466.

t 2 Bissell. 1388

Oct. 1874.]

MORGAN V.

CAMPBELL.

Opinion of the court.

in 1870, for the guidance of the practice in the Northern
District of Illinois. His conclusions, which have always
been regarded as satisfactory to the bar, were, on appeal,
affirmed in the Circuit Court.
He says:
"It is to be remembered that in equity the landlord may have
no just preference over the many general creditors of the bankrupt, and, in view of the general scope and spirit of the Bankrupt Law itself, and of the effect which it was to have on the
rights of creditors, I have thought that unless the intention of
the statute was clear to allow the common law or statutory lien
of the landlord to have a priority over the general creditor, it
ought not to be so regarded, and, looking at the statutes in our
State, bearing upon the right of the landlord to distrain for
rent, it seems to me that fairly construing the two laws together,
and the effect which one has upon the other it must be said that
under the Bankrupt Law, as operating upon the State law, the
landlord, except in the particular case referred to, must be
treated as being upon the same footing as the general creditors
of the bankrupt, and can only have a right to come in like them,
and prove his debt in the usual way."
Equality is the equity of the Bankrupt Law. The decree
of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill should, therefore,
be affirmed.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill in this case cannot be sustained unless the laws
of Illinois conferred upon the landlord a statutory lien upon
the personal property of the tenant in the county prior to
the levy of the warrant. If the lien existed independently
of the warrant, and the warrant was used merely as a means
of enforcing it, then the theory of the bill is correct. On
the contrary, if no lien could be acquired until at least the
warrant was actually levied, the court below did not err in
dismissing the bill.
The sixth and seventh sections of the Illinois Landlord
and Tenant Statute speak of distress for rent. The sixth
section prescribes the manner of proceeding, but the seventh

MORGAN V.

CAMPBELL.

.[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

recognizes the existence of the right itself, and is in these
words: "In all cases of distress for rent it shall be lawful
for the landlord, by himself, his agent, or attorney, to seize
for rent any personal property of his tenant that may be
found in the county where such tenant shall reside, and in
no case shall the property of any other person, although the
same may be found on the premises, be liable to seizure for
rent due from such tenant." The eighth section declares
that "every landlord shall have a lien upon the crops growing or grown upon the demised premises in any year for
rent that shall accrue for such year."
These are the only provisions of the statute material to
the present inquiry, and they indicate clearly enough the
intention of the legislature on the subject. Manifestly it
was the purpose to make a distinction in this regard between
agricultural products raised on the farm and the. general
personal property of the tenant in the country. If this
were not so, why introduce the eightlf section into the law
at all, for the right of distress was conferred without it.
The distinction was doubtless owing to the fact that agriculture is now, and was at the passage of the law, the chief
industry of the State. It could work no serious injury to
trade if one kind of property alone were subject to a statutory lien, but to extend this lien to all the personal property
owned by a tenant in the county would interfere with it
very materially. Be this as it may, the statute does in express terms confer a lien upon the crops growing or grown
upon the demised premises in any year for the rent of that
year, and recognizes for other personal property in the
county the right of distress as it existed at common law.
At common law the landlord could distrain any goods found
upon the premises at the time of the taking, but he had no
lien until he had made his right active by actual seizure.
A statutory lien implies security upon the thing before the
warrant to seize it is levied. It ties itself to the property
from the time it attaches to it, and the levy and sale of the
property are only means of enforcing it. In other words,
if the lien is given by statute, proceedings are not necessary

4MORGAN

Oct. 1874.]

V.

CAMPBELL.

Opinion of the court.

to fix the status of the property. But in the absence of this
statutory lien it is necessary to take proceedings to acquire
a lien on the property of the tenant for the benefit of the
landlord. This the landlord is enabled to do in a summary
way to satisfy the rent which is due him, and in this lie
has an advantage as creditor over creditors at large of the
tenant. It is difficult to see why th6 tenant, subject to this
dormant right of the landlord, is not as much the owner of
his effects as any other person would be who owned property and owed debts.
The statute we are considering has been the subject of
consideration at the hands of the Supreme Court of Illinois.
And it is contended that O'Harav. Jones* is authority for
the position assumed by the appellant. The point decided
in that case was that the landlord had a right to distrain for
rent upon the property of the tenant even after he bad
made a general assignment for the benefit of creditors of all
his property, real and personal, on the ground that the assignee of the tenant could not hold the goods free from the
lien of the landlord; that the assignee took the goods of
the assignor as a volunteer, and subject to all the liens to
which they were then liable.
This decision evidently proceeds on the idea that the
statute created a greater and different lien in favor of the
landlord than is given by the common-law right of distress.
But the court, in the recent case of Hadden v. Knickerbockert
while adhering to the point actually decided in O'IHara v.
Jones, repudiate this idea and say that the lien is given the
landlord upon growing crops, "but no specific lieu -is given
upon other property of the tenant." This case protects bond
fide purchasers who have paid value for the property, with
notice that rent was due the lessor and that he was about to
distrain, although in O'Hara v. Jones it would seem that
purchasers are not to be treated as bond fide unless they
bought without notice.
It is argued that the basis of the decision in O'.larav.
46 Illinois, 291.

t- -

Id. -;

not reported when this case was argued.

MORGAN V.

CAMPBELL.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

Jones is that the landlord's lien for rent is superior to that
of a creditor holding under execution or attachment, and
there are expressions in the opinion which tend in that direction, but the court to reach that conclusion would be
obliged to overrule Rogers v. Dickey,* and this case is not
even noticed in the opinion of the court.
The question in Rogers v. Dickey, as stated by the court,
was "whether an execution delivered to the sheriff and in
his hands at the time a distress warrant was levied took
precedence of the levy by the constable, where there had
been no sale of the property levied upon." The property
levied on was on the demised premises, and the court, on
full consideration, held that the sheriff, who had in the
meantime taken the property from the constable, was justified in the proceeding, and this, too, on the general principles of law, for no point is made of superior right in the
levy of the constable by virtue of the Landlord and Tenant
Act. This decision could not have been reached if, in the
opinion of the court, the landlord had a lien on the property
prior to the seizure under the warrant, for the court, in
Miles v. Tames,t held that the statutory lien of the eighth
section on growing crops was a prior lien to an execution.
But it is unnecessary to consider the cases further, for
whatever may be the scope of some of the decisions in the
State, the exact point we are considering was decided, as
we understand it, in the recent case of iladden v. Knickerbocker,t and, indeed, the question does not seem to have
been passed upon in any other case. If, as is said in that
case, the statute creates no lien in favor of the landlord on
the general property of the tenant in the county, until the
levy of the distress warrant, then the question arises, whether
the appellant acquired any right to the property in question
by reason of his levy as against the assignee of the bankrupts and against the rights of' the other creditors. It may
become important in other cases to determine whether the
lien acquired by the levy, to become operative, must not be
*1

Gilman, 636.

t 36 Illinois, 401.

T-Supra.

Oct. 1874.]

8MORGAN V.

CAMPBELL.

Opinion of the court.

perfected in conformity with the provisions of the statute
on the subject, but in the view we take of the rights of the
parties to this suit, it is not necessary to consider the question. The question might arise where the levy was before
the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, and the subsequent
proceedings, taken after this was done, were not in conformity with the provisions of the statute. The levy in this
case was, however, made after the institution of bankruptcy
proceedings, but before the decree in bankruptcy was rendered.
The fourteenth section of the Bankrupt Act declares that
the assignment in bankruptcy shall relate back to the commencement of proceedings, and by operation of law vest the
title of the estate of the bankrupt in the assignee, notwithstanding the same is then attached on mesne process as
the property of the debtor. It is argued that a distress warrant, being the act of the landlord himself, is not an attachment upon mesne process. This is true according to the
technical signification of the term, but the meaning of the
term in this connection embraces any proceeding by which
a lien is first acquired. The object of the law was evidently
to prevent any one procuring a lien after the filing of the
petition who had not got it before. If the lien existed before the filing of the petition, it could be enforced in the
bankrupt court; but if it did not exist the purpose of the
law was to prevent its being brought into existence by any
proceeding whatever. If this were not so, as soon as it was
known that the petition was filed the provisions of the law
might be easily evaded. The main'purpose which the Bankrupt Act seeks to accomplish is to distribute the property of
the bankrupt equally among his creditors, and in order to do
this the creditor who has not, when proceedings are begun,
such a security as binds the property is prevented from obtaining it, and thus securing a preference over another creditor. There is no good reason why the law should protect a
landlord in the issuing of a distress warrant, and repudiate
an equally meritorious creditor in the levy of an attachment.
If a distress warrant, where no further proceedings are nec-

MORGAN V.

CAMPBELL.

[Sup. ( t.

Opinion of the court.

essary to perfect the lien, is not, strictly speaking, an attachment upon mesne process, yet, under the Illinois statute, as
has been remarked by an eminent judge,* it is in the nature
of mesne process. The statute requires that a copy of the
distress warrant be immediately filed in court; the party
against whom it issues summoned; the amount due from
him ascertained and entered upon the records of the court.
It is then made the duty of the court to certify to the officer
making the levy, the amount of the debt, and this certificate
is his authority to make the sale, which certificate, with the
proceedings indorsed upon it, imust be returned into court.
It will thus be seen that the landlord, after he levies his
warrant, can progress Do further until the court has sanctioned the proceeding. The certificate that is issued, if not
final process in the ordinary sense of the term, resembles it,
and the distress warrant, if not mesne process issuing out
of a court, is similar to it. The effect of the distress warrant is to seize the property and hold it for the purpose of
enforcing the claim of the landlord upon it, and an ordinary
attachment upon mesne process does nothing more for the
general creditor. Both have to be returned into court and
action taken on them before the property can be sold. Each
is process through which a lien is obtained, but by neither
can the lien be made available, unless through some final
proceeding. There is, therefore, sufficient similarity between these processes for the distress warrant to be treated
as a writ in the nature of an attachment upon mesne process.
But we do not want to rest our decision on this point
alone, for the fourteenth section of the Bankrupt Law is not
levelled at the mode of doing a thing, but at the thing itself.
It was the object of this section to prevent the acquisition
of any other liens than such as existed when the petition in
bankruptcy was filed, and any proceeding by which this is
attempted is within the condemnation of the law.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
* Drummond, J., In re Joslyn, 2 Bissell, 241.-REP.

