Oct. 1874.]

AMsINcK

V.

BEAN.

Statement of the case.
I

AMSINCK

v.

BEAN, ASSIGNEE.

1. The assignee in bankruptcy of the estate of an individual partner of a
debtor copartnership, cannot maintain a suit to recover back money
previously paid to a creditor of the copartnership, upon the ground that
the money was paid to such creditor in fraud of the other creditors of the
firm, and in fraud of the provisions of the Bankrupt Act. The suit
should be by the assignee of the partnership.
2. The mere fact that one partner of a firm composed of two partners, after
a stoppage of payment, suffered the other, who had put in two-thirds of
the capital, and who was in addition a large creditor of the partnership
for money lent, to manage the partnership assets apparently as if they
had been his own, proposing to creditors a compromise at seventy cents
on the dollar, taking the partnership stock, transacting business in his
own name, buying some new stock, selling old and new, and mingling
the funds-though keeping separate accounts-does not, of itself, dissolve the partnership, and vest such acting partner with the partnership
property in such way as that on a decree of bankruptcy against him
individually, the partnership assets pass to his assignee in bankruptcy.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York; the case being thus:
The Bankrupt Act enacts in its thirty-sixth section, that
persons trading as partners may be decreed bankrupt, as
well as persons trading as individuals; and that when a
partnership is decreed bankrupt, all the joint stock and
property of the partnership and also all the separate estate
of each of the partners shall pass to the assignee, who by the
said section is to keep separate accounts of the two estates.
Creditors of the firm, and the separate creditors of each
partner, may prove their respective debts; and the net proceeds of the joint stock is to be appropriated to pay the
former, and the net proceeds of the separate estate to pay
the latter. If there be any balance of the separate estate
of any partner, after payment of his separate debts, it is to
be added to the joint stock to pay the joint creditors; and
if there be any balance of the joint stock after payment of
the joint debts, it is to be divided and appropriated to and
among the separate estates of the several partners, according to their respective right and interest therein, and as it

Am SINwK v.

BEAN.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

would have been if the partnership had been dissolved without any bankruptcy.*
But the act does not contain any provisions by which,
when one member alone of a partnership is decreed bankrupt, and there is no decree against the partnership itself,
the property of the partnership passes as does the partner's
individual property.
In this state of the law, on the 15th of February, 1869, a
partnership composed of two persons, named respectively
Kintzing and Lindsey, and trading at St. Louis, Missouri,
as Kintzing & Co.-Kintzing being the senior partner, a
contributor of two-thirds of the capital, and a large creditor
of the firm for money lent-becoming embarrassed in their
affairs, and having numerous creditors, including one named
Amsinck (a large one, resident in New York) stopped payment.
From the date of this stoppage, Kintzing seemed to have
proceeded as if the partnership had been dissolved. The
assets of the firm with the tacit assent of Lindsey, the other
partner, passed into the exclusive possession of Kintzing.
He then submitted a written proposition to the partnership
creditors, to pay them in discharge of existing debts, seventy
per cent.-in the firm notes, however-af six, twelve, and
eighteen months; the arrangement not to bind any creditor
until agreed to by all.
Amsinck directed his agent in St. Louis to sign the agreement in behalf of him, Amsinck, on condition, to be privately
made with Kintzing & Co., that they should "discount" tlle
notes thus to be given; paying for them on such so-called
operation of discount, one-third cash and the residue in
thirty and sixty days; an arrangement which if Kintzing &
Co. could not get on ultimately would prove more favorable,
of course, to Amsinck than that proposed to the other creditors and accepted by about two-thirds of them. Kintzing
& Co. agreed to this, and the fifty per cent. was paid to
Amsinck; making a payment in cash of $16,275. The six,
twelve, and eighteen months' compromise notes were sent
* 14 Stat. at Lar'-. SM.

ct. 1874.]

AMSINCK v. BEAN.
Statement of the case.

to those creditors who had agreed to accept them, though
conditionally; the six months' notes maturing August 18th,
1869.
In the meantime Kintzing went on trying to get the other
creditors to accept the terms of compromise proposed; he
alone, as it seemed, administering the partnership assets
for the benefit of the creditors as contemplated by the
agreement of compromise. .e took the partnership stock,
made new purchases on his own account, transacted the
business in his own name, and sold the old and new stock,
mingling the funds as if all were his own, except that he
kept separate books for each business. The $16,275 (the
amount paid to Amsinck) was derived from such mingled
funds.
As already observed, about two-thirds of the creditors
had signed the compromise agreement when the agent of
Amsinck signed it for him. Kintzing continuing to make
exertions to get the remaining creditors to sign, transacted
business with the old assets and some new ones, in the way
mentioned, for a certain time. However, finding that all the
creditors would not sign, and so that the plan of compromise would be defeated, he made to the State assignee of
Missouri, on the 21st of August, 1869--the six months'
notes, which had matured three days before, being still unpaid-a general assignment under the laws of Missouri of
his property, for the benefit of his creditors.
Certain of the creditors of the partnership now getting
wind of the secret arrangement between Amsinck and Kintzing & Co., and that the $16,275 had been actually received
by Amsinck, filed a petition in the District Court at St.
Louis, representing that they were creditors of Kintzing,
"a member of the late firm of Kintzing & Co.;" that the said
Kintzing had committed various acts of bankruptcy specified
(one ot the acts specified being the payment to Amsinck),
and praying that he, Kintzing (not Kintzing & Co., nor
Lindsey, but Kintzing), might be decreed a bankrupt, and
he was so decreed accordingly; one Bean being appointed
his assignee in bankruptcy.

A MSINOK v. BEAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Thereupon Bean filed a bill in chancery-the bill in this
case-against Amsinck, in the court below, praying that the
payments made to Amsinck might be decreed to have been
made in fraud of other creditors and of the Bankrupt Act,
and that Amsinck might be decreed to account for and pay
them over to him, Bean, the assignee. The answer denied
fraud, &c., and set up in addition the point that the bankruptcy
proceedings were against Kintzing alone, and not against
Lindsey also, and not against the firm; that the complainant, Bean, was the assignee only of Kintzing individually,
and not the assignee of the firm; that the copartnership
had never been dissolved; that the complainant did not represent the interest of Lindsey in the claim sought to be
recovered in the suit; and that Lindsey had an interest in
it which did not pass to the complainant.
The court below did not, however, regard the objection
as of force. It said:
"It is apparent, from the evidence, that the firm was regarded
as dissolved by all parties concerned, by Kintzing, by Lindsey,
and by the creditors, including the defendants, and that the
assets and effects of the firm were regarded as being put into
Kintzing's hands, in trust, to settle up the business as the appointee of the creditors, and pay the compromise notes. Kintzing passed into the hands of the State assignee all that was
left of such assets, as being part of the estate of Kintzing.
From the State assignee they passed to the plaintiff, as the assignee of Kintging, as part of the estate of Kintzing."
It said in addition:
"The composition deed does not appear to have been assented to in any manner by Lindsey. Re is not named in it,
nor was he, so far as appears, a party to it potentially. . . .
There does not seem to have been any authority, so far as Lindsey was concerned, to sign the firm name to the compromise
notes, so as to bind him by them. The compromise notes, therefore, signed by Kintzing with the firm name, were the individual notes of Kintzing. Having given them, he was to have
the assets to administer with which to pay them."
This objection arising from the fact of the decree in bank-

Oct. 1874.]

AmSINCK V. BEAN.
Argument for the preferred creditor.

ruptcy being against Kintzing alone, being thus disposed
of, and the transaction between Amsinck and Kintzing & Co.
having been, as the court considered, a clear fraud on the
other creditors of that firm, the court decreed a recovery.
It said:
"Whether the money could or could not be recovered back
by the debtor, the fourteenth section of the Bankruptcy Act
especially vests in the assignee all property conveyed by the
bankrupt in fraud of his creditors, and authorizes him to sue
for and recover the same. This applies to conveyances fraudulent at common law, and to transfers of property such as that
in the present case."*
From that decree Amsinck brought the case here, where
three assignments of error-two of them not material to be
stated-were made; the third one, and the one on which the
decision in this court was rested, being this:
"That the decree was erroneous in deciding that the assignee of Kintzing individually could maintain this action;
the appellants alleging that if they were liable at all they
were liable to Kintzing & Co. or to their assignee."
Mr. A. F. Smith, for the appellant:
The bankrupt proceedings against Kintzing alone were
ineffectual to vest in the assignee title to the partnership
property.t
It is not pretended by the bill that Kintzing had any right
or title to the partnership property to the exclusion of Lindsey. The most that is set up is that he had possession, by
the consent of Lindsey, of the assets of the firm for the benefit of the creditors. It is not pretended that Lindsey had
been released, or that he had assigned or otherwise parted
with his legal interest in the partnership assets. On such a
case it is plain that the action must fail.
* Knowlton v. Moseley, 105 Massachusetts, 136; Bean v. Brookmire, 1
Dillon, 151, 154.
f Bankrupt Act, 36; General Order in Bankruptcy, 18; Re Shepard, 3
Bankrupt Register, 42; Re Crockett, 2 Id. 76; Re Lewis, 1 Id. 19; Re
Prankard, lb. 51; Re Little, Ib. 74.

AiSINCK

v.

BEAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Nor is the point technical; for if it is well taken, it would
be no answer for Amsinck, in the event of his being sued
hereafter by the assignee of Kintzing & Co., to plead that
they had paid the money to the assignee of an individual
member of the firm.
Nor can it be argued that the money paid to the appellants belonged to Kintzing individually. The case shows
that it belonged to the partnership.
Messrs. -. T. Allen and -E. B. Merrill, contra, for the
assignee :
It is not necessary for the dissolution of a partnership as
between partners, that a deed of dissolution under the hand
and seal of the partners be executed, recorded, and published.
A partnership may be dissolved in fact-dissolved by matter in pais-as well as by document technically written and
executed in form.
Now, the case here shows a dissolution in fact, immediately on the stoppage. Kintzing was the chief capitalist,
a creditor, and the person most interested. Lindsey did not,
apparently, think his interest worth looking after. He
abandoned the wreck; and from that time forth Kintzing
took possession of everything; he proposed the compromise; he gave the notes; all, in short, belonged to him; this
"all," however, being the damnosa hereditas of paying all
debts, and the "forlorn hope" of getting any surplus, necessarily small, if after paying debts anything remained.
In such a case the assignee of Kintzing was assignee of
all the assets of the firm, including this claim on Amsinck,
to refund what he had got in virtue of a fraud on the other
creditors.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Waiving the first two errors assigned, the single question
presented for decision is whether-the complainant, as the
assignee of the estate of an individual partner of a debtor
copartnership, can maintain a suit to recover back money

Oct. 1874.]

8 ]AIsiNcK v.

BEAN.

Opinion of the court.

previously paid to a creditor of the copartnership, upon the
ground that the money was paid to such creditor in fraud
of the other creditors of the firm and in fraud of the provisions of the Bankrupt Act.
Assignees in bankruptcy of the estate of an insolvent copartnership may, perhaps, maintain such a suit for such a
claim, even though the money was paid by an individual
partner under such an agreement to compromise his separate debts, as the assignees in such a case are required to
keep separate accounts of the joint stock or property of the
copartnership and of the separate estate of each member of
which the copartnerahip is composed; and the provision is
that the net proceeds of the joint stock and property shall
be appropriated to pay the creditors of the copartnership,
and that the net proceeds of the separate estate of each
partner shall be appropriated to pay his separate creditors.
None of the proceeds of the separate estate of the individual partners can be appropriat6d to pay the partnership
debts, unless the proceeds from that source exceed what is
necessary to pay the separate debts of the partner, nor can
any part of the proceeds of the joint stock or property of
the copartnership be appropriated to pay the separate debts
of the individual partner, unless there is an excess from
that source beyond what is required to pay-the partnership
debts."
Theme regulations show that, in cases where they apply,
the assignees in bankruptcy of the joint stock and property
of a copartnership are required to administer the separate
estate of the individual members of the firm or company as
well as the described estate of the copartnership, but the
Bankrupt Act contains no regulations of a corresponding
character applicable in a case where an individual member
of a copartnership is adjudged a bankrupt without any such
decree against the copartnership or the other partner or
partners of which the copartnership is composed.
Instead of that the Bankrupt Act provides that in all
14 Stat. at Large, 535.
VOL. XXI.

26

AmsINcK

V. BEAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinon of the court.

other respects the proceedings against partners shall be conducted in the like manner as if they had been commenced
and prosecuted against one person alone. Partners are not
entitled in any case to come in competition with the joint
creditors upon the partnership funds, whatever may be the
rights and equities which would otherwise attach between
them and the bankrupt partner or partners.
Where all the partners become bankrupt the general rule
is that the separate estate of one partner shall not claim
against the joint estate of the partnership in competition
with the joint creditors, nor shall the joint estate claim
against the separate estate in competition with the separate
creditors.*
Doubt upon that subject cannot be entertained, and it is
equally clear that a solvent partner cannot prove his own
separate debt against the separate estate of the bankrupt
partner, so as to come in competition with the joint creditors of the partnership, for the plain reason that he is himself liable to all the joint creditors, which is sufficient to
show that in equity he cannot be permitted to claim any
part of the funds of the bankrupt before all the creditors to
whom he is liable are fully paid.t
Neither can a solvent partner prove against the separate
estate of the bankrupt partner in competition with the separate creditors of the bankrupt until all the joint creditors of
the partnership are paid or fully indemnified, for if a dividend were reserved to such a.party.ou such proof the joint
creditors might be injured by such solvent partner stopping
the surplus of the separate estate, which would otherwise be
carried over to the joint estate, or the separate creditors
might be injured by the funds being stopped and the transmission of the same be delayed.1
Two exceptions are admitted to that rule: (1.) Where
* McLean v. Johnson, 3 McLean, 202.

j- Emery v. Bank, 7 National Bankrupt Register, 217.
1 Story on Partnership, 406; Robson on Bankrupt (2d ed.), 621; Ex
parte Lodge & Fendal, 1 Vesey, Jr., 166; Ex parte Maude, Law Reports, 2
Chancery Appeals, 555.

Oct. 1874.]

OBISINcK V. BEAN.
Opinion of the court.

the property of a partner has been fraudulently applied for
the purposes of the partnership. (2.) Where a distinct trade
is prosecuted by one or more of the members of the firm.*
Subject to the preceding rules, as explained, the solvent
partners retain their full right, power, and authority over
the partnership property after bankruptcy, in the same manner and to the same extent as if no bankruptcy of a particular partner had occurred. Their lien also remains in full
force, not only to have the partnership funds applied to the
discharge of the partnership debts and liabilities, but also
to the discharge of all the debts due by the partnership to
them or any one of them, as well as for their own distributive shares, if any, in the surplus.t
Debts due by the bankrupt partner to the partnership are
entitled to priority in preference to the debts due by him to
his separate creditors, and if the joint funds prove insufficient to discharge his debt to the partnership the solvent
partners have a right to prove the deficiency against the
separate estate of the bankrupt par!passu with the separate
creditors.1
Bankruptcy, it is said, when decreed by a competent tribunal, dissolves the copartnership, but the joint property
remains in the hands of the solvent partner or partners,
clothed with a trust to be applied by him or them to the
discharge of the partnership obligations and to account to
the bankrupt partner or- his assignee for his share of the
surplus.ยง
Exceptions undoubtedly exist to that rule where it appears
that the partnership or all the partners are insolvent, even
though some of them may not be in bankruptcy.j
Assets are to be marshalled between the creditors of the
" 1 Deacon (3d ed.), 852.
f Bump on Bankruptcy (7th ed.), 660; Collier on Partnership (3d Am.
ed.), 860.
+ Bump on Bankruptcy (7th ed.), 220.
Ex partc Norcross, 5 Law Reporter, 124; Harvey v. Crickett, 6 Maule
& Selwyn, 339.
il Ayer v, Brastow, 5 Law Reporter, 501; Murray v. Murray, 5 Johnson's
Chancery, 60; Barker v. Goodair, 11 Vesey, 86; Smith v. Stokes, 1 East,
367; Parker v. Muggridge, 2 Story, 348.

-MSINCK V. BEAN.

0

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

copartnership and the separate creditors of the partners only
when there are partnership assets and separate assets of individual partners, and proceedings have been instituted
against the partnership and the individual members, as provided in the thirty-sixth section of the Bankrupt Act.*
Certain exceptions also exist to that rule where both the
joint and separate.estates are administered by the assignees
of the copartnership.t
Many decided cases support the proposition that the
bankruptcy of one partner operates as a dissolution of the
copartnership, but such an adjudication obtained 'by one
partner against another will not be sustained if the real object of the petitioner is to dissolve the firm and the adjudication is not required for any other-purpose.1
Involuntary proceedings in bankruptcy were instituted in
this case against the senior partner of the copartnership, and
it is conceded that no such proceedings have ever been commenced against the copartners or the other partner. Proofs
were introduced to show that the other partner was largely
indebted to the firm, and it may be conceded that the proofis
are sufficient to show that the firm is insolvent, but there is
nothing in the record to show that the complainant possesses
any other authority to maintain the suit than what he derives by virtue of his appointment as assignee of the estate,
real and personal, of the bankrupt senior partner of the copartnership.
Repeated decisions have settled the rule that an assignee
of the estate of an individual partner has no such title as
will enable him to call third parties to an account for partnership property, and it is difficult to see why that rule does
not dispose of the case before the court.ยง
All of the debts embraced in the compromise agreement
*Ex parte Leland, 5 National Bankrupt Register, 222; Ex parte Downing, 1 Dillon, 36.
T Ex parte Warxen Leland, 5 National Bankrupt Register, 229.
1 Shelford on Bankruptcy (3d ed.), 186; Ex.parte Christie, Montague &
Bligh, 314; Ex parte Browne, I Rose, 151; Ex parte Johnson, 2 Montague,
Deacon & De Gex, 678.
Bump on Bankruptcy, 660.

Oct. 1874.]

AMSINCK v. BEAN.
Opinion of the court.

were partnership debts and the payments made to procure
the signature of the appellants were made to discharge those
debts; nor is the question affected in the least by the fact
that some small part of the fund used to make those payments was earned by the senior partner in transacting the
business of the copartnership subsequent to the time when
the firm suspended payment. Most of the amount, it is
conceded, was take5 from the partnership assets, and the
whole was paid as being the money of the copartnership.
Money paid under such circumstances, if it can be recovered back at all, must be claimed by the partnership in
whose behalf it was paid, or by an assignee duly appointed
to administer the joint estate, as it is quite clear that neither
an individual partner nor his assignee can call the party to
whom such a payment has been made to an account for
such a payment any more than he could for any other debt
due to the copartnership. If liable in fact, a voluntary payment to the appellee would not discharge the obligation, as
the liability, if it exists, is to another party; nor would a
judgment in this case, even if satisfied, be a bar to a subsequent suit in the name of the partnership or their duly appointed assignees.
Two principal suggestions are made in support of the
theory set up by the appellees: (1.) That all the parties concerned in the attempt to effect a compromise between the
debtors and their creditors proceeded as if the copartnership had previously been .dissolved and as if the assets and
effects of the debtor firm had been placed in the hands of
the senior partner in trust to settle up the affairs of the
debtors with their creditors and to pay the compromise
notes. (2.) That the other partner never assented to the
compromise agreement nor was he in fact a party to the
final arrangement, and that the copartnership name was
signed to the compromise agreement and to the notes without his authority.
Issuable matters are certainly involved in those propositions, but suppose they are fully proved, they are not sufficient to show that the other partner ever conveyed his

UNITED

STATES V. FARRAGUT.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

interest in the assets and effects of the copartnership to the
bankrupt partner, or that he ceased to be a joint owner of
the same when the estate of the bankrupt partner was
assigned and conveyed to the complainant below as his
assignee.*
Nothing is exhibited in the-record to warrant the conolusion that the copartnership was. ever in fact dissolved before
the decree in bankruptcy against the senior partner, and as
the compromise notes were given in the name of the copartnership, the other partner remained liable for their payment.
DECREE REVERSED

and the cause remanded, with direc-

tions to
DISMISS THE BILL OF COMPLAINT.

UNITED STATES V. FARRAGUT.
Captors (Admiral Farragut and others) having filed a libel in the admiralty
for prizes taken below New Orleans in April, 1862, they and the government agreed to refer the cause to the "final determination and
award" of A., B., and C., "1the award of whom," said the agreement
of reference, "1shall befinal upon all questions of law and fact involved,.
said award to be entered as a rule and decree of court in said case, with
the right also of either party to appeal to the Supreme Court of the
United States, as from other decrees or judgments in7*rize cases."
The arbitrators made an award, finding certain matters wholly or chiefly
of fact and also certain conclusions of law, and their award was, after
exceptions to it, made a decree of the court where the libel was filed.
An appeal was taken to this court.
Held as principles of law applicable to the case:
1. That there was nothing in the nature of the admiralty jurisdiction, or
of an appeal in admiralty, which prevented parties in the court of admiralty, whether sitting in prize or as an instance court, from submitting their case by rule of the court to arbitration.
2. That the award in the present case was to be construed here and its
effect determined by the same general principles which would govern it
in a court of common law or of equity.
3. That notwithstanding the expression in the agreement of submission,
that all questions of law in the case were to be concluded by the award,
Harrison v. Sterry, 5 Cranch, 302.

