SWEENEY v.

LOMME.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

evidence shows they were, when paid, equally with Confederate paper valueless in Pennsylvania.
The views taken of this case accord with Ward v. Srith,*
and are supported by the Court of Appeals of Virginia in
Alley et al. v. .Rogers.t It follows, from what has been said,
that the bond given by Charles Stover to Isaac Fretz and
Catharine his wife has not been paid, or any part of it, and
that the deed of trust to secure it is still a subsisting security
in full force and eiffct.
DECREE REVERSED AND THE CAUSE REMANDED,

with instruc-

tions to enter a decree for Catharine Fretz, survivor of her
husband, in conformity with this opinion.
REVERSAL AND REMAND ACCORDINGLY.

S-WEENEY ET AL. V. LOMME.
1. In a suit on a replevin bond given to the sheriff, where the question
whether the proper party to sue is the sheriff or the party for whose
benefit the bond was given, depends upon the code of practice of Montana Territory, this court will not reverse the decision of the Supreme
Court of that Territory on the question; that being a question on the
construction of their own code.
2. In a suit on a replevin bond the defendants cannot avail themselves of
the failure of the court to render in the replevin suit the alternative
judgment for the return of the property or for its value; even if that
were an error for which that judgment might be reversed.
3. If a return be awarded in the replevin suit, the surety is liable on the
condition of the bond to return, and this without execution or other
demand for its return. The judgment establishes the liability.
4. Nor is this liability to be measured in this action by the value of the interest in the property of the attachment debtor, for whose debt it was
seized by the sherif. The value of the property at the time it was replevied, limited by the debt still due on the attaching creditor's judgment and the penalty of the replevin bond, are the elements of ascertaining the damages in the suit on that bond.
5. 'When it appears for the first time in the argument of a cause that the
* 7. Wallace, 451.

t 19 Grattan, 381.

Oct. 1874.]

SWEENEY V.

-ommE.

Statement of the case.
existence of the judgment appealed-from is not stated in the record,
the'court of its own motion may allow the plaintiff in error a certiorari
and time to produce a certified copy of it.

to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana.
The case was thus:
ERROR

The Civil Practice Act of the Territory of Montana thus
enacts:
"Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of the real
party in interest."
"In an action to recover possession of personal property
judgment for the plaintiff may be for the possession; oR the
value thereof in case a delivery cannot be had, and damages for
the detention of it."
This enactment being in force, Lomme sued B. & C.
Kintzing, in one of the District Courts of the said Territory,
as partners, to recover a debt, and in that suit issued- an
attachment, under which the sheriff seized certain personal
property, alleged to belong to the Kintzings, as security for
the satisfaction of any judgment that might be recovered
against them.
In this state of things one Watson brought replevin against
the sheriff, to recover possession of this property; and-two
persons, Sweeney and Holter, entering as sureties into a
written undertaking to the sheriff, in $5000, conditioned
"for the return of the property to him, if return thereof
should be adjudged, AND for the payment to him of such
sum as might be recovered against Watson "-the property
was delivered to Watson.
In this action of Watson against the sheriff the jury found
a verdict "1for the defendant," on which the court entered
a judgment to the effect that the sheriff "recover from the
plaintiff, Watson, the possession of the property replevied
in this action," and his costs.
'The jury did not find the value of the property replevied,
nor was any alternative judgment entered against Watson,
as required by the already quoted section of the Civil PracVOL. XXI.

14

210

SWEENEY v. LOmmE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tice Act, for the value of the property in case a return could
not be had.
No execution was ever issued on this judgment for the
return of the property; nor was it ever returned or offered
to be returned to the sheriff, by either Watson or his sureties.
Going back now to the original suit. In that suit Lomme
obtained, October 27th, 1870, judgment against the iKintzings for $4954, with interest at 10 per cent. and costs, about
$1300 of which was got on execution.
Thereupon he sued Sweeney and Holter, as sureties in
the undertaking given to the sheriff in the replevin suit
brought against him by Watson for the property attached
by the sheriff at the instance of Lomine, as the property of
the Kintzings; the object of this suit being to recover from
the sureties the value of the property replevied, or so much
thereof as might be necessary to satisfy the balance of the
amount due upon the judgment obtained by Lomme against
the Kintzings.
On the trial the plaintiff, Lomme, gave no evidence of the
assignment, or of the delivery, of the replevin bond to him
by the defendant in the action of Watson v. The Sheriff; and
was permitted to prove the value of the property attached,
at the time it was replevied by Watson, this value being
Axed by witnesses at from $7000 to $10,000.
At the conclusion of the plaintiff's case, the defendant
moved for a non-suit, on the ground that Lomme could not
sue in his own name on the bond given to the sheriff. The
court refused the non-suit, holding that the bond having
been for the use of LQmme, and he being the real party in
interest, he could so sue.
The evidence being all in, the defendants requested the
court to charge:
That- the only interest which the plaintiff could claim in
the goods was just the interest which the Kintzings had at
the time of the levy of the attachment on them, and that he
could recover no greater amount from the defendants than
the value of the interest of the Kintzings in them, at the
said time, if he recovered at all.

Oct. 1874.]

874.] v. Lo~mE.
Oct.
SWEENEY
Statement of the case.

That unless a writ de retorno liabendo (that is to say, for the
return of the property claimed in the complaint) had been
issued to the proper officer previous to the commencement
of this action, then that the verdict should be for the defendants.
That the undertaking sued on fixed the value of the property replevied at $2500 at the time the same was replevied,
and the jury could not fix the value thereof to be any greater
SUn.
The court refused to give any one of these charges, though
it did charge that the $1300 which Lomme had recovered
on his suit from the ]intzings was to be deducted from
what the jury might find.
The court charged that the plaintiff's damages should be
assessed at such amount as the jury might find remained
unsatisfied upon his judgment against the Kintzings, with
interest, and his costs expended in Watson's suit against
the sheriff, if they found that the value of the property replevied by and delivered to Watson at the time it was so
delivered, and not returned to the sheriff or placed in subjection to the plaintiff's judgment against the Kintzigs,
was equal to the balance of the judgment and the amoun)t
of the costs; and if the property was not equal to the said
balance and costs, that the jury should assess the plaintiff's
damages at the amount they should find the said property
was worth at the time of its delivery to Watson, and the
amount of plaintiff's costs in Wfatson's suit against the sheriff,
with interest on such amounts at ten per cent. per annum,
That the only question for the jury to determine was,
whether possession of the property delivered to Watson was
ever returned to Roberts, and to determine the value of the
property so delivered to Watson and not so returned.
The jury found, November 10th, 1871, in favor of the
plaintiff for $5000. The record as it came up to the court
omitted to show, by the usual sort of entry, that judgment
bad been entered accordingly. However, there was in the
record a notice by the defendant's counsel to the counsel of
the plainitiffs, "that the defendants appealed to the Supreme

SwEE-xIEy v.

LoMME.[SpCt

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Court of the Territory from the judgment made and entered
in the District Court of the Territory, in favor of the plaintiff and against the defendants." And also an order by the
Supreme Court of the Territory that the cause of Lomme v.
Sweeney et al., "coming on for judgment on the appeal
herein," it was ordered "that the judgment entei'ed herein
by order of the court below be affirmed with costs."
This the counsel of the plaintiffs in error had regarded as
a sufficient evidence of the entry of a judgment for $5000 in
the District Court, and an affirmance -f it in the Supreme
Court, and so brought the case here. The errors assigned
were:
1. That Lomme was allowed to sue in, his own name.
2. That the verdict in the replevin suit was in violation
of the provision in the Civil Practice Act, since it did not
find the value of the property, and there was no alternative
judgment for that value, oR the return of the property.
3. That proper instruction had been refused.
4. That wrong ones had been given.
Mr. .. Hubley Ashton, for the plaintffs in error, and Mr.
Robert Leech, contra; the latter gentleman in his brief calling attention to the peculiar form of the evidence of the
judgments in the District Court, which he suggested was no
evidence of what judgment, if any, had been given; and Mr.
Ashlon informing the court that the peculiarity was due to
a mere clerical error, that would be remedied by certiorari,
if the court saw fit now to order one, and would suspend its
judgment till one could issue and be returned. The court
directed the argument to proceed, and a certiorari to issue.
[A certiorari having thus issued and been returned,sbowed
the error to have been a mere clerical one, as alleged by Mr.
Ashton.]
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
1. The first error assigned and mainly relied on is that the
bond on which the suit is brought having been given to the

Oct. 1874.]

SWEENEY V.

LOMmE.

Opinion of the court.

sheriff, this action cannot be maintained by Lomme, the
party for whose benefit it was really given.
.This question has been decided differently by different
State courts under precisely the same code of practice.
In several of these it has been held that the real party in
interest is always the proper plaintiff, while in others it is
held fhat the suit must be brought by the obligor in the
bond for the use of the party in interest.
Without expressing any opinion of our own on the question, we hold that as it is one which arises under their own
code of practice, we slould, in this conflict of authority,
adopt the ruling of the Supreme Court of Montana in the
consideration of it. This assignment of error is, therefore,
not well taken.
2. The next objection is that the verdict in the replevin
suit did not find the value of the property, and that there
was no alternative judgment for that value or the return of
the property.
On this question also conflicting authorities are produced
as to what judgment should have been rendered under codes
precisely similar to the Montana code in regard to actions
of replevin. And in the case of Boley v. Griswold,* in a direct appeal, we have held that a judgment in replevin may
be good though the alternatives are not expressed. But we
are not now considering whether that judgment was erroneous or not. N~o writ of error to that judgment is pending
in this court. As'the jury found for the defendant, the
sheriff, and the court rendered judgment for a return of the
property to him in a suit in which it had jurisdiction to
render that judgment, it is not void because it did not add
something else which it might have added.
The undertaking of the plaintiffs in error was "for the
prosecution of said action (of replevin), for the return of said
property, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment
to the said defendant of such' sum as may from any cause
be recovered against said plaintiffs." The judgment, there* 20 Wallace, 486.

214

SWEENEY ?v. LOMmE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

fore, which is valid until reversed, established one of the
conditions on which the plaintifl in error agreed to be
liable, and as the property was not returned, either by them
or by Watson, they are liable to an action on their contract.
$. Nor do we think the court erred in refusing to instruct
the jury that Lomme could only recover the value of the
interest of the Kintzings in the property. This would: have
been to try the action of replevin over again. If Watson
had no right to the property he had no business to interfere,
and if he thought some person not yet before the court had
a paramount interest in it he should have'returned the
property aud left such person to assert his own rights.
Having replevied the property and- failed to establish his
own right to it in the suit thus provoked by him, he is but
a trespasser in holding possession afterwards.
4. Nor do we think that it was necessary that an execu
tion should have been issued to retake the property under
the judgment in the action of replevin before the liability
of the plaintiffs in error in the replevin bond accrued. They
undertook, themselves, in express terms, that they would
be liable if a judgment for return of the prolerty was had,
and not on condition that it could not be had on execution.
This question was before us in the recent case of Douglas v.
Douglas,*in which it was held that thejudgment of de relorno
habendo rendered the party liable on a replevin bond.
5. The bill of exceptions shows that the goods, at the
time they were replevied, were worth from $7000 to $10,000.
The verdict of the jury was for $5000, the penalty of the
bond. As there is nothing in the record to show that there
was not due to Lomme on his judgment against the Kintzings, including interest and costs, and for the costs and expenses of defending the replevin suit, the sum of $5000,
all these elements of damages being before the jury, we
cannot say that the verdict was for too much or 'that the
judgment rendered on it was erroneous.
6. A point was made in the defendant's brief that there
* 21 Wallace, 98.

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V.

MAGWIRE.

Syllabus.

was no judgment found in the record, and an inspection of it
showed that while the judgment of the Supreme Court of
the Territory merely in terms affirmed the judgment of the
District Court, the judgment of the District Court was not
in the record, and, in fact, no judgment was to be found in
the record which we could either reverse or affirm.
Under these circumstances, as the defendants in error had
made no objection, by motion to dismiss the writ, or otherwise, before the hearing, the court heard the argument, and
of its own motion gave the plaintifs time to perfect the
record by certiorari, if it could be done. The proper judgment has since been certified to this court, and it is now
AFFIRMED.

BAILEY V. MAGWIRE, COLLECTOR.
1. A claim of exemption from county and municipal t--ation ca:-not be
supported, any more than a claim from State taxation, except upon language so strong as that, fairly interpreted, no room is left for controversy. No presumption can be made in favor of the exemption ; and
if there be reasonable doubt, the doubt is to be solved in favor of the
State.
2. The fact that in an act amending the charter of a railroad corporation
special provision is made for ascertaining the taxes to become due by
the corporation to the State (nothing being said about the manner of
ascertaining other taxes), is not of itself enough to-work an exemption
of the property of the corporation from all taxation not levied for State
purposes. Silence, in regard to such other taxes, cannot be construed
as a waiver of the right of the State to levy them. There must be
something said affirmatively, and which is explicit enough to show
clearly that the legislature intended to relieve the corporation from
this part of the burdens borne by other real and personal property,
before such an act shall amount to a contract not to levy them.
3. A provision in such an act, prescribing a mode for ascertaining the tax
due the State, by which provision the president of the company is required to furnish to the auditor of the State a statement, under oath, of
the actual cash value of the property to be taxed, on which the company
is directed to pay the tax due the State, within a certain time, to the
treasurer, under penalties, does not amount to a contrct, that the State
will not pass any law to assess the property of the company for taxation
for State purp-zes in a different manner.

