276

MECHANICS' ETC. BANK V. UNION BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

no assignee had been appointed when the alleged offer to
redeem was made, which affords a demonstration that the
charge of the court that he had ceased to be the owner of
the land and thereby lost his right to redeem was improper,
being equivalent to a direction to the jury to find a verdict
for the plaintiff.*
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the cause remanded with direc-

tions to issue

A

MECHANICS'

NEW VENIRE.

AND TRADERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.

1. The Constitution did not prohibit the creation by military authority of
courts for the trial of civil causes during the civil war in conquered portions of the insurgent States. The establishment of such courts was
the exercise of the ordinary rights of conquest.
2. A court established by proclamation of the commanding General in New
Orleans, on the 1st of May, 1862, on the occupation of the city by the
government forces, will, in the absence of proof to the contrary, be
presumed to have been authorized by the President.
3. Though called, in the order establishing it, a Provost Court, a larger jurisdiction than one over minor criminal offences might, in fact, have validly
been given to it by the power which constituted it.
4. Whether such court acted within its jurisdiction in a case where one bank
of the State of Louisiana was claiming from another bank of the same
State a large sum of money, is not a question for this court to determine, but a question exclusively for the State tribunals.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Louisiana; the case being
thus:
The State of Louisiana, as is known, during the late rebellion joined the rebel forces. On or about the 29th of
April, 1862, however, the government forces under General
Butler-then in command of the conquering and occupying
army, and comrnissioned to carry on the war in the Depart* Wright v. Johnson, 4 National Bankrupt Register, 627; Same Case, 8
Blatchford, 150; Bump on Bankruptcy (7th ed.), 22.

Oct. 1874.]

MECHANICS'

ETC. BANK V.

UNION BANK.

277

Statement of the case.

ment of the Gulf, a department which included Louisianatook possession of New Orleans. At the time of his thus
occupying the city, the only money then circulating there
was notes issued by the- rebel confederacy; "Confederate
notes." In the confusion of things for a few days after the
capture, it did not appear plainly to the people generally
what would be done about these notes, and there being no
other sort of money whatever in general circulation, General Butler, on the 1st of May, 1862, in the necessities of
the case, issued a proclamation allowing the circulation of
them "until further orders."
On the day following, by general order, he established a
court. The powers of the court were not defined otherwise
than by the order establishing it. The order said:
"Major J. M. Bell, volunteer aid-de-camp, of the division staff,
is hereby appointed provost judge of the city of New Orleans,
and will be obeyed and respected accordingly.
"Captain J. H. French, aid-de-camp and acting inspectorgeneral, is hereby appointed provost marshal of the city of New
Orleans, and Captain Stafford, volunteer aid-de-camp, deputy
provost marshal. They will be obeyed and respected accordingly."
No direct authorization or approval of this court by the
President was shown; nor any direct evidence that it was
not authorized by him, or that he disapproved it.
At different dates between the 5th and 13th of May, 1862,
the Union Bank of New Orleans lent to the Mechanics' and
Traders' Bank there $130,000 in Confederate notes, which
still had a circulation of a certain kind. Whether any specific agreement was made between the two banks as to the
sort of notes in which the money borrowed should be returned, that is to say, whether it was agreed that it should
be returned in Confederate notes, or whether there was no
understanding or agreement in relation to the payment except that tacitly understood, that it should be returned in
notes as current at the time of payment as were the Confederate notes when borrowed-this was a matter not clear;
the great weight of evidence, however, as the reporter read

278

MECHANICS'

ETC.

BANK

V.

UNION BANK.

[SUp. Ct.

Statement of the case.

it, being that there was no understanding in the case other

than that last mentioned.
On the 16th of May, 1862, General Butler, by general
order, directed that on the 27th following, that is to say,
within eleven days, all circulation or or trade in Confederate
notes should cease within his department. The depreciation of them, of course, was rapid and great; though the
Confederation not yet having fallen to pieces, the notes had
some circulation, though a circulation at a great discount

compared with good money, in other places in the South.
In this depreciated state of them, the Mechanics' and

Traders' Bank, on the 26th of May, that is to say, the day
before the notes were to cease circulating in New Orleans,
and thereabouts, not then owning any such amount of the
notes, tendered to the Union Bank in Confederate notes
the $130,000 borrowed, with interest.

The Union Bank

declined to receive them; and soon after brought suit in the
Provost Court to recover in good money the $130,000 lent.

That court dismissed the suit, holding that the loan was
payable as the borrowing bank had offered to pay it, that is
to say, in Confederate money. However, the parties were
summoned afterwards before General Butler, who heard an
argument from the counsel of the borrowing batik. On a
still later day they appeared again before the Provost Court,
when the counsel of the borrowing bank being about to
make an argument to show the rectitude -of the former decision, the provost judge, according to the testimony of the

president of that bank, said that lie had been ordered to reopen the case and grant a new trial; that counsel "need
read no law to him, for the case would be decided under
orders." The borrowing bank accordingly paid the $130,000
and interest, in lawful money of the United States; paying
it, however, under protest.
It may be here stated, as part of the general history of
things-though no part of this appeared in the record-that,
on the 20th of October, 1862-a little less than six months
after General Butler established his court already mentioned-the Federal occupation in Louisiana having now

Oct. 1874.]

MECHANICS'

ETC. BANK V. UNION BANK.

279

Statement of the case.

become secure and more extended, President Lincoln himself established at New Orleans, in a formal way, by commission, under the seal of the United States, what was called
the "Provisional Court;" declaring that it should be a court
of record for the State of LoAsiana, and appointing Mr.
Charles A. Peabody judge thereof. This court was in form
authorized to hear and determine all causes, civil and
criminal.*
* The following is the order of President Lincoln, from which the Provisional Court in New Orleans derived its existence. The reporter inserts
it, the whole subject of that court being much referred to in the argument
for the plaintiff in error, and in the dissenting opinion:
"EXECUTIVE MANSION,WASHINGTO.,

October 20th, 18G2.

"The insurrection which has for some time prevailed in several of the
States of this Union, including Louisiana, having temporarily subverted
and swept away the civil institutions of that State, including the judiciary
and judicial authorities of the Union, so that it has become necessary to
hold the State in military occupaton, and it being indispensably necessary
that there should be some judicial tribunal existing there capable of administering justice, I have, therefore, thought it proper to appoint, and Edo
hereby constitute a Provisional Court, which shal be a court of record for
the State of Louisiana, and I do hereby appoint CHARLiES A. PEABODY, of
New York, to be a provisional judge, to hold said court, with authority to
hear, try, and determine all causes, ivil and criminal, including causes in
law, equity, revenue, and admiralty, and particularly all such powers and
jurisdiction as belong to the District and Circuit courts of the United States,
conforming his proceedings, so far as possible, to the course of proceedings
and practice which has been customary in the courts of the United States in
Louisiana; his judgments to be final and conclusive. And I do hereby authorize and empower the said judge to make and establish such rules and
regulations as maty be necessary for the exercise of his jurisdiction, and to appoint a prosecuting attorney, marshal, and clerk of the said court, who shall
perform the functions.of attorney, marshal, and clerk, according to such
proceedings and practice as before mentioned and such rules and regulationi
as may be made and established by said judge. These appointments are to
continue during the pleasure of the President, not extending beyond the
military occupation of the city of New Orleans, or the restoration of the
civil authority in that city and the State of Louisiana. These officers shall
be paid out of the contingent fund of the War Department, compensations
as follows: The judge at the rate of $8500 per annum; the prosecuting aftorney, including the fees, at the rate of $8000 per annum; and the clerk, including- the fees, at the rate of $2300 per annum ; such compensation to be
certified by the Secretary of War. A copy of this order, certified by the
Secretary of War, and delivered to such judge, shall be deemed and held to
be a sufficient commission.
" Let the seal of the United States be hereunto affixed.
[L. S.]

" By the President:
"WILLIAM

H

SEWARD,

"Secretary of State."

"ABRAHAM

LINCOLN.

280

MECHANICS' ETC. BANK v. UMION BANK.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

The lending bank now sued the other bank in one of the
inferior courts of Louisiana to recover the money.
Its petition adverted to certain clauses of the Constitution, among them to those clauses which Ordain that,
"The judicial power of the United States shall be vested in
one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress
may from time to time ordain."
And also that,

"The President . . . shall nominate, and by and with the advice of the senate . . . shall appoint judges of the Supreme
Court, and all other officers of the United States whose appointments are not herein otherwise provided for."
And, assuming, apparently, that the court established by
General Butler-if not meant to be a mere provost's court,
that is to say, a court confined to the trial of criminal matters, and, therefore, without jurisdiction in a civil one, such
as this suit-was, of necessity, meant by the said Butler to
be an establishment by him as a commanding officer of the
United States in an occupied city, of a court of the United
States, with a judge of the same appointed by him, it went
on to submit that"The ordaining and establishing by General Butler of the said
court, the appointment of Major Bell as the judge thereof by
the said general, and the action and proceedings of the latter in
the premises; were acts in violation of the Constitution, and
consequently null and void, conferring no right on the Union
Bank to invoke the authority of the said Bell to obtain fiora
him judgment in behalf of the said bank against the defendant,
compelling it to pay to the said bank the sum adjudged by Bell
to be due to it."
It submitted further"That if the court had been one endowed with perfect jurisdiction, the interference of General Butler in the administration
by its judge of its justice, and causing him to make decisions
'under orders,' rendered void all that he did."
It then alleged that it did not owe to the Union Bank the
money which it had been made to pay under an order at

Oct. 1874.]

MECHANICS' ETC. BANK V.

UNIOx

BANK.

281

Statement of the case.

once unjust and in violation of the Constitution, and which
bad been made effective only through military force; and
that all this being so it was entitled ex xquo et bono, to have
back the money thus taken away.
The petition admitted, as respected the Union Bank, that
in all that it had done, it had acted as it thought that it ought
to act, and had been seeking to recover what it deemed to be
a just debt by a proceeding which it deemed a fair one.
Accordingly all claim for damages was waivbd.
Previously to the case coming on to be heard before the
inferior State court of Louisiana, that State adopted a constitution, of which the 149th article was thus:
"All rights, actions, prosecutions, claims, contracts, and all
laws in force at the time of the adoption of this constitution,
and not inconsistent therewith, shall continue as if it had not
been adopted; all judgments and judicial sales, marriages, and
executed contracts made in good faith and in accordancewith existing laws in this State rendered, made, or entered into, between
the 26th day of January, 1861, and the date when this constitution shall be adopted, are hereby declared to be valid," &e.
Having heard the case, the State court in which the suit
was brought said:
"Conceding, for the sake of argument, the incompetence of the
Provost Court to render the judgment it did against the borrowing bank, the practical effect of its judgment, viz., the payment
of the money, cannot now be inquired-into with a view to its
restitution, for two reasons:
"isi.There was a valid obligation on the part of the borrowing bank to pay the amount borrowed; and, after the money
has been paid, it is immaterial, in a civil point of view, by what
means the payment was enforced. Had the officers of the Union
Bank forcibly taken the money from the vaults of the other
bank, the latter could not recover it if the taker was a legal
creditor to the amount taken.
"2dly. Whether the Provost Court was or not a competent
court in law, it was a court in fact, and the admission of the
plaintiff in his petition of the good faith of the Union Bank
brings the case within the terms of article 149 of the constitu-

282

MECHANICS' ETC. B ANK V. UNION BANK.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the ease.

tion of Louisiana,* and secures for the judgment obtained under
such circumstances the validity which probably it did not previously possess."
The case being then taken to the Supreme Court of'the
State on appeal, that court said:
"The important question is, was the judgment which the
plaintiff was compelled to pay an absolute nullity, and can he
recover from the defendant the amount paid by reason of said
judgment?
"This raises the question whether General Butler had the
right after the captuie of the city, in May, 1862, to appoint a
judge to try civil cases. If he had this right the judgment was
not an absolute nullity, and the amount paid by the plaintiff
cannot be recovered. If the judge had the right to hear and
determine the case, the plaintiff cannot recover the money paid
in satisfaction thereof, even though it bc conceded that there
was not sufficient proof to authorize the judgment or that, the
debt was for Confederate money.
"Under the Constitution the United States has the right to
make war, to raise and to support armies and navies, to suppress insurrections, and to repel invasions. The measures to be
taken in carrying on war and suppress insurrections are not defined; and the decision of all such questions is in the discretion
of the government to whom these powers are confided by the
Constitution.
"When the United States captured the city of New Orleans,
in 1862, the civil government, existing under the Confederacy,
ceased to have authority. As an incident of war powers, the
President had the right to establish civil governments, to create
courts, to protect the lives and the property of the people.
"The question is, had the general commanding the military
forces of the United States which captured the city, the right
to establish the provisional court~called the Provost Court which
rendered the judgment against the plaintiff? We are of the
opinion that he had. This was an exercise of the wvar powers
of the United States, presumably with the consent and authorization of the President, the commander in chief.
"6The plaintiff paid a judgment rendered by a competent
See it, supra, p. 281.

Oct. 1874.]

MECHANICS'

ETC. BANK

V.

UNION BANK.

283

Argument against the jurisdiction of the ,"Provost Court."

court, established by the United States in the exercise of its
war powers (the only authority competent to organize a court
in this city at the time), and has no cause of action against the
Union Bank for the money paid in pursuance of the decree of
that court. The United States had authority to establish this
court, and the judgment is validated by article 149 of the constitution of Louisiana."
The judgment in favor of the Union Bank was accordingly affirmed.
From that judgment the case was brought here as within
section 709 of the Revised Statutes.*
The errors assigned were that the Supreme Court of Lou
isiana erred:
"1st. In holding that the President had a right to authorize
General Bdtler to establish a court of civil jurisdiction in New
Orleans in May, 1862.
"2d. In holding that it was to be presumed that the'President
did authorize General Butler to establish the court of Judge
Bell, with the civil jurisdiction attributed to it by the opinion
of the court.
I-3d. In holding that the court of Judge Bell had jurisdiction
to render its judgment against, the Mlechanics' and Traders'
Bank, and th'at the said judgment was not a nullity.
"4th. In holding that, supposing the judgment of the Provost
Court to have been originally void, it was validated, and so
made a bar to the claim of the plaintiff in error, by force of the
149th article of the constitution of Louisiana."

Messrs. B. and A. C.Janin,for the plaintof in error:
The order establishing the~court in question is for a Provost Court simply. The jurisdiction of such a court is of
the criminal sort, and is confined to the minor sort of

offences.t
Now,conceding that General Butler had power to establish, and that he did establish, and rightly, a Provost Court,
yet a case of the kind that this was-a suit by one bank cor* See the section in the Appendix.
t Webster's Dictionary, in verbo, "Provost Marshal. '

284

MECHANICS' ETC. BANK V. UNION BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction of the "Provost Court."

poration against another bank corporation, for $130,000was no proper subject for the cognizance of such a tribunal.
Can the jurisdiction be maintained on the ground that the
court was a civil tribunal? It cannot be, for two reasons:
1st. Because the character of the court is established as
that of a criminal court by the very use of the words "provost
judge." What a provost judge is, is well known. We have
already stated the character of his jurisdiction. He is almost
invariably a military officer. Here he was a "major" in
the army, and " volunteer aid-de-camp of the division staff."
His military character shows that it cannot be meant that
his jurisdiction should include civil things.
2d. Because it is indispensable for such a court that it
should be established, or at least approved, by the President.
There is no record of any civil court during the war being
otherwise established. In the case of the "Provisional
Court" established at New Orleans in October, 1862-a civil
court-after the occupation of that city, during the war,
there was a formal establishment of it by President Lincoln,
and by a commission, longer and more full than any ever
issued to any judge of this cou, t, sent, under the seal of the
United States, to Mr. Peabody, the person appointed by the
President to be judge. A court thus formally constituted
by the President may be sustained on the authority of certain recent cases here,* though perhaps it cannot be sustained without difficulty, in view of the plain language of
the Constitution, which makes no provision for the establishment of any sort of civil courts in time of war different
from those to be established in times of peace.
The inferior State court of'Louisiana, in which the suit
for the recovery of the money paid under protest was
brought, perceived the pressure of this part of the case and
put its decision denying a recovery, on two grounds, which
were consistent with want of jurisdiction in the Provost
Court. The Supreme Court was less wise. Admitting, in
effect, that a mere provost's court could have no jurisdiction
* The Grapeshot, 9 Wallace, 132; Handlen v. Wickleff; Pennewet v.
Eaton, 15 Id. 382.

Oct. 1874.]

MECHANICS' ETC. BANK V. UNION

BANK.

285

Argument against the jurisdiction of the " Provost Court."

of such a case as this was, it assumes that this court was a
civil court. But still the difficulty remained that there was
nothing to show that the President ever authorized its establishment, and that if he did not, the court had no jurisdiction. The court'then "jumps" this difficulty, and says that
General Butler's act "was an exercise of the war powers,
presumably with the consent and authorization of the President;" thus assuming the matter to be proved.
Now, we say, contrariwise, that an act done, in irregular
times, and in opposition to what the law requires-an act
which on its face is one of usurpation and despotism, as this
act was-is not to be presumed to have been rightly done,
but until proven to have been so done is to be presumed to
have been done wrongly. This is true when there is no
evidence in the case and all rests on presumption.
But here we have evidence, and the evidence is that the
establishment of this court was General Butler's own act,
and was not authorized by the President in advance of it,
nor approved by him after it was done.
1. What were General Butler's own ideas of the necessity
of an approval by the President? In Ex parle Milligan,* a
brigadier-general had appointed a military court in the State
of Indiana (a State at the time, as always before and since,
loyal to the Union) to try a man named Milligan for various
offences against the laws of war. The civil courts were all
in session, and a grand jury was exercising its functions.

No hostile army was within the borders of the State,-norexpected there. Notwithstandinig this, Milligan was convicted and was sentenced to death. A motion was made to
this court for a habeas corpus, and the case presented the
point whether the man had been sentenced by a competent

court. General Butler-the same eminent person who had
established the Provost Court now under considerationhaving reaped the victories of war, and having by this time
returned to the bar to reap those, not less renowned, of
peace, appeared before this court as special counsel of the
* 4 Wallace, 2.

286

MECHANICS'

ETC. BANK V. UNION BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction of the "Provost Court."

United States, to justify the action of the military commission in Indiana, and to insure, if possible, such action from
it as would secure the execution of Milligan. In his argument in the case, as reported,* he announces his idea of
martial law and of the rights of the Officer executing it.
He asserts that such officer is "supreme legislator, supreme
judge, and supreme executive." That, therefore, was his
idea of what he himself was when, a conquering hero in
New Orleans, he established the Provost Court. A gentleman who was at once a general, a conqueror, and a lawyer,
"supreme legislator, supreme jndge, and supreme executive," had no occasion to communicate about anything with
the President of the United States, a person who is never a
legislator, never a judge, and though for a short time an
executive, is yet never a supreme executive, but an executive limited, coareted, and restrained by numerous and clear
ordinances of a written constitution.
Every presumption, therefore, from what we know of
General Butler's views of the action of times of war upon
constitutional law, as those views were declared by himself
to this court in Ex parte Milligan make it improbable that
he consulted anybody before he established his provost's
court, or informed anybody, even the President of the
United States, afterwards. If his own views of his powers
were right, he had perhaps little occasion to do so.
2. The action of that President, as we have it in written
records, tends to the same conclusion. On the 20th of
October, 1862, the President did establish a civil court in
New Orleans, in very great form, as we have already said.
Among other formalities, he issued a commission to Mr.
Peabody, constituting him judge. This commission recites
that the insurrection had temporarily "swept away the civil
institutions of the State, including the judiciary and judicial
authorities of the Union," and that it was "indispensably
necessary that there should be some judicial tribunal existing
there capable of administering justice." The President
* 4 Wallace, 14.

Oct. 1874.]

MECHANICS'

ETC. BANK

V. UNION BANK.

287

Argument against the jurisdiction of the " Provost Court."

plainly considered that no such tribunal was there, or since
the rebellion had been there. He accordingly established
such a one; a Provisional Court; one confessedly not such
as the Constitution and laws authorized in time of peace,
and established only in an exercise of the rights of war;
that is to say, such a- one as General Butler pretended to
establish. Is it not plain, from the establishment of this
court, and especially from the recitals just quoted, that the
President never did authorize General Butler's Provost
Court at all as a civil court, and that if he ever heard of it
acting as such a court, that he disapproved of its doing so?
Mr. Lincoln, it is quite plain, felt that'to establish a civil
court, even in an occupied city, a commission was necessary
from him, and when he wished to establish such a court he
gave one in form.
In the face of such evidence, both of General Butler's
views and of President Lincoln's views, you can presume
nothing in this matter.
The authorities in this court show too that the case is not
one for favorable presumptio'ns of approval by the President
In the Sea Lion,* an act of Congress, after restricting cornnercial intercourse in the insurrectionary districts, authorized the President to license it in certain cases, with a pro.
viso that the licensed intercourse should be carried on only
in pursuance of regulations prescribed by the Treasury Department. The construction was that the President alone
had the power to license such intercourse. The court said:
"The license finds no warrant in the statute. The statute
prescribed that the PRESIDENT shall license trade."
It is to be observed too, that in this case General Banks
licensed the trade, and that Rear-Admiral Farragut indorsed
the license "Approved."
Yet it was held that "the President only could license it;" and no presumptions that he
had licensed it were indulged in, even though such officers
* 5 Wallace, 613; and see the Ouachita Cotton, 6 Id. 531; Cappell v
Hall, 6 Id 557, and McKee v. United States, 8 Id. 166.

288

MECHANICS' ETC. BANK V. UNION BANK

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against jurisdiction in this court to review.

as General Banks and Admiral Farragut with their corn
bined power had sanctioned it.
But the extraordinary part of the case is that Major Bell,
the Provost Court, decided the case in favor of the Mechanics'
and Traders' Bank; that his judgment was not appealed
from to General Butler; but sua sponte-moti mero suo-in
exercise of his power as "supreme legislator, supreme judge,
and supreme executive "--the General ordered him to open
the case and reverse his decision; and that the provost judge
did do this, and, as he says, "under orders." Who was the
judge? Surely not Major Bell, for his will, his mind, his
judgment, were at variance with his decree. General Butler was the judge, and Bell did but record his decree.
Mr. P. Phillips, contra:
1. The case has been argued on the other side as if the
jurisdiction of this court under section 709 of the Revised
Statutes was clear. But it is not clear; on the contrary, it
does not exist.
The grounds on which it is a'ssumed that the jurisdiction
exists under the section just referred to, are:
1st. That no court could be established in Louisiana by
the government of the United States, nor any judge appointed by it-not even in time of civil war-but in the way
provided in certain clauses of the Constitution.
2d. That there was an implied contract by the borrowing
bank to restore money received by it from the Union Bank
in virtue of a void decree, enforced by military power; and
that this implied contract was violated by section 149 of the
State constitution.
But no constitutional question is necessarily involved. The
judge of the- inferior State court seems to have avoided
much discussion about any. He found that the debt claimed
by the Union Bank was a just debt, and that this being so,
and that bank having got, even by a void decree, its money,
there was an end to the case.
There thus being ground, not involving a Federal question, upon which the case can be rested, no Federal question

Oct. 1874.]

ME0HANICS'

ETC. BANK V.

UNION BANK.

289

Argument in support of the jurisdiction in the ":Provost Court."

should be entertained.* The Supreme Court of Louisiana in
resting the case on the ground which it did, did not mean
to abandon the ground taken by the court below it; ground
taken in the pleadings, and of course covered by the final
judgment in the Supreme Court as well as in the inferior
court.
Whether or not this point not Federal was rightly decided
is not a matter open forjndgment here. But plainly it was
decided rightly. It is impossible to believa that when the
Union Bank lent this money-General Butler being then in
occupation of the city-and allowing the circulation of Confederate money, only "till further orders"-it is impossible
to believe that the directors or officers of the Union Bank
lent Confederate notes to be returned at the borrower's
pleasure in kind. The tender made in repayment, on the
26th, was an offer to pay a debt in a thing utterly worthless.
In one day afterwards no one would be permitted to circulate or to deal in it. The borrowing bank did not own
the notes which it tendered; and the tender was made
knowing that it would not be accepted.
2. But assuming that jurisdiction exists in this court,
under section 709, or that the decision oi the point not
Federal was wrong.
The position of the other side is that the court established,
by General Butler was not established, nor'its judge appointed, in accordance with certain articles of the Constitution ; the same being the articles which prescribe in what
way the courts of the United States shall be established,
and judges in them appointed, in cases generally.
That the court was not so established, and that its judge
was not so appointed is conceded. But we assert at the
same time that the provisious of the Constitution relied on
by the other side are not applicable to a state of war.
If they are so applicable then every other provision of the
same Constitution, applicable to times and cases generally,
may be applied.
*Murdock

VOL. XXII,

v. City of Memphis,.20.
19

allace, 591.

290

MECHANICS' ETC. BANK V. UNION. BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction in the "Provost Court."

For example, "No one," says the Constitution, "shall be
deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process of
law; nor shall private property be taken for public use with.
out due compensation."
But it would be bordering on the absurd to say that such
provisions were in force while the State was occupied by
an invading army to compel its citizens to lay down their
arms.
The occupation of New Orleans by the Federal forces did
not restore to its citizens the rights which they had renounced under the Constitution of the United States. If
the acts of reconstruction are valid, these rights were not
restored until Congress provided for their representation in
its body. To some extent,,indeed, the people of New Orleans ceased to be enemies. For when the city was taken
possession of, a proclamation was issued by the commanding
general, which, while it declared martial law, promised protection to rights of property. But this was all; all, at least,
at the dates which are under our consideration.
Then the question is--admitting that the court established by General Butler was not a court established nor its
judge appointed in the way customary in times of peacewas its organization or the appointment of its judge, and
its action void, in view of the special circumstances existing
when it was established ?
The condition of New Orleans when the Federal forces
took possession of it has been frequently described by this
court. On the 20th October, 1862-months after the establishment of the Provost Court-the President issued his executive order, by which a provisional court was instituted.
In this he describes the "insurrection" as having subverted
and swept away the civil institutions of the State, including
the judiciary, so that "it has become necessary to hold the
State in military occupation."
The President accordingly established a provisional court
with wide powers and complete ability to enforce them.
That in this he acted in accordance with the Constitution

Oct. 1874.]

MECEHANICS' ETC. BANK V. UNION BANK.

291

Argument in support of the jurisdiction in the "Provost Court."

has been decided in The Grapeshot,* and affirmed in Pennywit v. .Ealontand in Handlen v. Wickliffe.T
Indeed, it seems to be conceded on the other side that if the
Provost Court had been established by the executive under
an order issuing directly from him, no question could now
exist as to its validity. But surely a general in the command of a department, in the exercise of war powers, must
in the absence of evidence to the contrary, be presumed to
act in accordance with the views and under the sanction
and authority of the commander in chief.§ When insurrection has swept away the judicial tribunals of a State as well
as of the United States, the commanding general in the exercise of the war power had authority to organize a provisional court for the trial of civil as well as of criminal cases.
And what if he does call it a Provost Court, provided he
show, as he here is alleged by the other side to have done,
that the court was meant to be one for the trial of civil
causes also? The community must be saved from chaos, and
courts are the means by which this end is attained. It is
better for the true sovereign that when he is restored to his
rights he should find order instead of chaos. On this ground
the judgments of the Confederate courts, though presided
over by judges in sworn hostility to the United States, have
been held valid by this court. The necessity which gave
validity to such judgments was certainly no greater than
that which called for the organization of courts in New Orleans in May, 1862. It was in this spirit that article 149 of
the constitution of the State was passed, affirming all judgments rendered between January, 1861, and its adoption.
That the President was informed of what General Butler
had done, and that he approved it so far as even by the
views of the other side would be enough to give to it his
official sanction, is not to be doubted. His omitting to establish any provisional court in form for nearly six months
after the city was occupied proves this. He established this
9 Wallace, 132.
t 15 Id. 382.
SLeitensdorfer v. Webb, 20 Howard, 176.

: 12 Id. 175.

292

MECHANICS' ETC. BANK V. UNION BANK.

[Sup. CL

Argument in support of' the jurisdiction in the "Provost Court."

provisional court not by way of showing his ignorance or
disapproval of what in the first moment of occupation had
been done, but because it was desirable now, though only
something like former times prevailed in New Orleans, and
till such times prevailed entirely, to have a tribunal established in more form, with better evidences of its powers and
jurisdiction, and of the limits upon them which might now
safely be made.
But the other side should show affirmatively a disappro.
val; approval being to be presumed in a case like this.
Besides, the Provisional Court was a court for the State
of Louisiana, and not, like the Provost Court, for the city
of New Orleans alone.
Yet, further, The Grapeshot did not decide that the President's knowledge or authorization was necessary to make a
valid court. In that case, a court established by him during
war, and in a place where courts could not be established as
in times of peace, was held to have been validly established.
But it was not decided that a military commander occupying
a place might not have validly established one also. Suppose
that after occupying New Orleans General Butler's commnnications with the President had been cut off, and remained
for months cut off entirely, as in fact they were cut off, in
every way but by sea, when the Provost 'Court was established. What then ? Could no civil court at all be estab..
lished? The argument of the other side is reduced to the
absurdum.
As to the evidence of General Butler's compelling Major
Bell to reverse his decision, the thing rests on the evidence
of the officer of the borrowing bank of what the provost
judge told him. There is really no legal evidence that General Butler ever did more than hear what the counsel of the
borrowing bank had to say. If Major Bell, in such a place
and in such a situation as he was in, did no more than consult with General Butler, and after being enlightened by his
views reconsider his former decision, what does the "acting
under orders" come to?

Oct. 1874.]

MECHANICS'

ET. BANK

V. UNION

BANK.

293

Opinion of the court.

.Reply:
As to the jurisdiction.
1. In suing in the inferior State court to recover the money
which the bank borrowing Confederate notes had been
obliged by the Provost's Court to pay in good money, that
bank set up specially that the establishment of Major Bell's
court, his appointment as judge, and his actions and pro-

ceedings as such, in the suit before him between the banks,
were null and void as being in violation of the Constitution
of the United States, which vests the judicial power of the
Union in one- Supreme Court and such inferior courts as
Congress may, from time to time, ordain and establish.
And on this ground the plaintiff claimed immunity from
any effect resulting from! the judgment of Judge Bell's
court.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana, however, held that the
Provost Court was a lawful one, and the judgment valid and
a bar to plaintiff's claim. This presents a Federal question,
and assimilates the present case to that of Pennywit v. Eaton.*
2. A Federal question is also presented since the Supreme
Court of Louisiana held, that supposing the judgment of
the Provost Court to have been void, it was made valid by
article 149 of the State constitution. For, if that judgment
was void when the money was paid under it, to the Union
Bank, under protest, an implied contract attached to the
Union Bank to refund it, and if article 149 bars or assumes
to bar the enforcement of that contract, it impairs the obligation of the contract, and is, consequently, unconstitutional
so far as it applies to the present case.t
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The facts of this case, so far as they are necessary to a
proper understanding of the question raised, are the following:
In May, 186"2, after the capture of New Orleans by the
United States army, General Butler, then in command of
* 15 Wallace,

380. t Railroad Company v. McClure, 10 Wallace, 511.

294

MECHANICS' ETc. BANK V. UNION BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the army at that place, issued a general order appointing
Major J. M. Bell, volunteer aid-de-camp, of the division
staff, provost judge of the city, and directed that he should
be obeyed and respected accordingly. The same order appointed Captain J. H. French provost marshal of the city,
and Captain Stafford deputy provost marshal. A few days
after this order the 'nion Bank lent to the plaintiffs the

sum of $130,000, and subsequently, the loan not having
been repaid, brought suit before the provost judge to recover the debt. The defence was taken that the judge had
no jurisdiction over civil cases, but judgment was given
against the borrowers, and they paid the money under protest. To recover it back is the object of the present suit,
and the contention of the plaintiffs is that the judgment was
illegal and void, because the Provost Court had no jurisdiction of the. case. The judgment of the District Court was
against the plaintiffs, and this judgment was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State. To this affirmance error is
now assigned.
The argument of the plaintiffs in error is that the establishment of the Provost Court, the appointment of the judge,
and his action as such in the case brought by the Union
Bank against them were invalid, because in violation of the
Constitution of the United States, which vests the judicial
power of the General government in.one Supreme Court
and in such inferior courts as Congress may from time to
time ordain and establish, and that under this constitutional
provision they were entitled to immunity from any liability
imposed by the judgment of the Provost Court. Thus, it
is claimed, a Federal question is presented, and the highest
court of the State having decided against the immunity
claimed, our jurisdiction is invoked.
Assuming that the case is thus brought within our right
to review it, the controlling question is whether the commanding general of the army which captured New Orleans
and held it in May, 1862, had authority after the capture of
the city to establish a court and appoint a judge with power
to try and adjudicate civil causes. Did the Constitution of

Oct. 1874.]

MECHANICS' EMC. BANK V. UNION BANK.

29

Opinion of the court.

the United States prevent the creation of civil courts in captured districts during the war of the rebellion, and their
creation by military authority?
This cannot be said to be an open question. The subject
came under consideration by this court ini The Grapeshot,*
where it was decided that when, during the late civil war,
portions of the insurgent territory were occupied by the
National forces, it was within the constitutional authority of
the President, as commander in chief, to establish therein
provisional courts for the hearing and determination of all
causes arising under the laws of the State or of the United
States, and it was ruled that a court instituted by President
Lincoln for the State of Louisiana, with authority to hear,
try, and determine civil causes, was lawfully authorized to
exercise such jurisdiction. Its establishment by military
authority was held to be no violation of the constitutional
provision that "the judicial power of the United States shall
be vested in one Supreme Court and in such inferior courts
as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish." That clause of the Constitution has no application
to the abnormal condition of conquered territory in the occupancy of the conquering army. It refers only to courts of
the United States, which military courts are not. As was
said in the opinion of the court, delivered by Chief Justice
Chase, in The Grapeshot, "It became the duty of the National governmeut, wherever the insurgent power was overthrown, and the territory which had been dominated by it
was occupied by the National forces, to provide, as far as
possible, so long as the war continued, for the security of
persons and property and for the administration of justice.
The duty of the National government in this respect was
no other than that which devolves upon a regular belligerent, occupying during war the territory of another be]ligerent. It was a military duty, to be performed by the
President, as commander in chief, and intrusted as such
with the direction of the military force by which the occupation was held."
* 9 Wallace, 129.

296

MECHANICS' ETC. BANK V. UNION BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Thus it has been determined that the power-to establi~h
by military authority court§ for the administration of civil
as well as criminal justice in portions of the insurgent States
occupied by the National force,4, is precisely the same as that
which exists when foreign territory has been conquered and
is occupied 'by the conquerors. What that power is has
several times been considered. In Leitensdoifer . loughton
v. Webb,* may be found a notable illustration. Upon the
conquest of New Mexico, in 1846, the commanding officer
of the conquering army, in virtue of the power of conquest
and occupancy, and with the sanction and authority of the
President, ordained a provisiomal government for the country.t The ordinance created courts, with both civil and
criminal jurisdiction. It did not undertake to change the
municipal laws of the territory, but it established a judicial
system with a superior or appellate court, and with circuit
courts, the jurisdiction of which was declared to embrace,
first, all criminal causes that should not otherwise be provided for by law; and secondly, original and exclusive cognizauce of all civil cases not cognizable before the prefects
and Rlcaldes. But though these courts aid this judicial
system were established by the military authority of the
United States, without any legislation of Congress, this
court ruled that they were lawfully established. And there
was no express order for their establishment emanating from
the President or the commander in chief. The ordinance
was the act of General Kearney, the commanding officer of
the army occupying the conquered territory.
In view of these decisions it is not to be questioned that
the constitution did not prohibit the creation by military
authority of courts for the trial, of civil causes during the
civil war in conquered portions of the insurgent States.
The establishment of such courts is but the exercise of the
ordinary rights of conquest. The plaintiffs in error, therefore, had no constitutional immunity against subjection to
* 20 Howard, 176.

t- Executive Docments, 2d session 29th Congress, vol. 3, Document 19.

Oct 1874.]

MIECRAxicS'

rcc. BAXK v. UNIoN BAxK.

297

Opinion of the court.

the judgments of such courts. They argue, however, that
if this be conceded, still General Butler had no authority to
establish such a court; that the President alone, as commander in chief, had such authority. We do not concur in
this view. General Butler was in command of the conquering and occupying army. He was commissioned to carry
on the war in Louisiana. He was, therefore, invested with
all the powers of making war, except so far as they were
denied to him by the commander in chief, and among these
powers, as we have seen, was that of establishing courts in
conquered territory. It must be presumed that he acted
under the orders of his superior officer, the President, and
that his acts, in the prosecution of the war, were the acts of
his commander in chbief.
Again, it is argued that even if the Provost Court was
rightly established, it had no jurisdiction over civil causes.
It must be conceded that the order by which the court was
created did not define expressly the nature and extent of its
jurisdiction. And it is also true that a Provost Court ordinarily has cognizance only of minor criminal offences; but
that a larger jurisdiction may be given to it, by the power
which brings it into being, is undeniable. Whether a larger
jurisdiction was conferred in the case now under consideration we are not called upon to determine. It is not a Federal question. The Supreme Court of Louisiana decided
that General Butler had a right, after the capture of New
Orleans, in May, 1862, to appoint a judge to try civil cases,
notwithstanding the provisions of the Constitution. Having
determined that he had such a right, we have disposed of
the question which entitles the case to be heard -here, and it
is not for us to inquire whether the Provost Court acted
within its jurisdiction or not. That is a question exclusively for the State tribunals. In determining, as the State
Supreme Court did, that the plaintiffs had no such constitutional immunity as they claim, there was no error. If in
other respects errors were committed, they are not reviewable by this court, unless they present some other Federal
question.

298

MECHANICS' ETC. BANK V. UNIoi BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

Such a question the plaintiffs allege is presented. As.
suming that the judgment given by the Provost Court in
favor of the Union Bank was void for want of jurisdiction
in the court, they argue that when they paid the sum ad
judged against them the law raised an implication of a
promise by the Union Bank to refund it, and that the obligation of this contract was impaired by the 149th article of
the State constitution of 1868. That article ordained that
all judgments and judicial sales, marriages, and executed
contracts made in good faith and in accordance with existing laws in the State, rendered, made, or entered into between .the 26th day of January, 1861, and the adoption of
the constitution, should be valid. But if the court was lawfully established, as the Supreme Court of the State decided,
the law raised no such promise as is asserted, and the validating clause of the constitution, therefore, impaired no contract obligation. Besides, we cannot admit that the legislation of a State may not validate the judgments of a court in
fact, though in giving the judgments the court may have
transcended its jurisdiction.
Nothing more need be added. Sufficient has been said to
show that, in our opinion, the plaintiffs have been denied
no right or immunity secured to them by the Constitution
and laws of the United States. If there is any error in the
record, it is one of which this court can take no cognizance.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice FIELD, dissenting.
I am unable to agree with a majority of the court in this
case. I do not differ from them so much in the judgment
rendered as in the reasons assigned for it. Had they placed
their decision on the ground that the plaintiff bank owed
the money it was compelled by the decree of the Provost
Court to pay, and, therefore, could not recover it back,
however illegal the action of that tribunal, I should have
made no objection to their judgment. But as they pass by
this ground and not only affirm the legality of the establish-

Oct. 1874.]

MECHANICS'

ETC. BANK

V.

UNION BANK.

299

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

ment of the Provost Court by the commanding general at
New Orleans, which is not seriously controverted, but the
validity of the jurisdiction in civil cases exercised by that
tribunal, I must dissent f'om their opinion. I can find no
sufficient warrant for, any such doctrine as tbereexpressed
in the action of the government during the late war, or in
the previous decisions of this court.
The case, as disclosed by the record, is briefly this: On
the 2d of May, 1862, General Butler, commanding the forces
of the United States then occupying the city of New Orleans,
by general order appointed Major Bell, aid-de-camp of the
division staff, provost judge of the city. Soon after this,
and previous to the 13th of May, the Union Bank of Louisiana loaned the Mechanics' and Traders' Bank of Newv Orleans $130,000 in Confederate notes. On the 26th of the
month the borrowing bank tendered payment of this amount
in notes of the same kind, but the tender was refused, the
lending bank claiming payment in either the notes of the
borrowing bank or in United States currency. It appears
that the commanding general had, by proclamation issued
on the 16th, prohibited the circulation of Confederate notes
after the 27th of the month. This prohibition necessarily
affected the value of the notes. A dispute thereupon arose
between the two banks as to the character of the currency
in which the ioan was to be paid, it being contended on the
one side that Confederate notes were to be received in payment, and on the other that the money should be refunded
in notes as current at the time as the Confederate notes
were when they were loaned. The lending bank thereupon
brought suit for the $130,000 before the Provost Court.
That court dismissed the suit, holding that the claim was
payable in Confederate notes. This was early in July, 1862.
Some days afterwards the commanding general directed the
provostjudge to set this judgment aside, and to try the case
again. Accordingly, when counsel for the Mechanics' and
Traders' Bank appeared in the action after this order and
attempted-to make a defence, he was informed by the judge
that he need not read any law to the court, that the judge

800

MECHANICS' ETC. BANK V. UNION BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Fie]d, J., dissenting.

had been ordered to grant a new trial, and that "the case
would be decided under orders." A judgment for the
amount claimed payable in currency was accordingly rendered in favor of the Union Batik, and the same was paid
under protest. This was on the 24th bf July, 1862.
It was to recover this sum that the present action was
brought in a State District Court of Louisiana. That court
declined to pass upon the competency of the Provost Court
to render the judgment in question, but held that the Meehanics' and Traders' Bank was indebted to the Union Bank
in the amount for which that judgment was rendered, and
that the same could not be recovered back in the present
action; and further, that the 149th article of the coustitution of the State of 1868, which declared that all judgments,
with certain exceptions, not material in the present case,
rendered in good faith and in accordance with existing laws in
the State, between the 26th of January, 1861, and the adoption of the constitution, should be valid, secured for the
judgment in question, to use the language of the court,
"the validity which probably it did not previously possess."
On appeal the Supreme Court of the State went further,
and held that the commanding general had the right to
establish the Provost Court and invest it with jurisdiction
to decide all civil cases, including the one cQmplained of;
that its establishment was the exercise of the war power of
the United States, presumably with the consent and authorization of the President, and that the judgment was validated
by the 149th article of the State constitution.
The plaintiff combats these positions, and contends that
the commanding general had no authority to invest that
military tribunal with jurisdiction in civil cases; and that it
was exempted under the Constitution-from any liability imposed by a judgment rendered in the exercise of any such
jurisdiction.
The Constitution secures to every one immunity from liability and consequent deprivation of property from the unwarrantable exercise of jurisdiction by tribunals established
under the authority of the United States, whether by Con-

Oct. 1874.]

MECHAMICS' ETC. BANK V.

UNzION BANi.

801

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

gress acting under the judiciary article of that instrument,
or by the executive, or military officers appointed by him,
acting under the war powers of the government. And the
right to inquire in this court whether any such unwarranted
jurisdiction has been exercised is not, in my judgment, dependent upon the determination of a State court as to the
validity of the asserted jurisdiction.*
Had this court, as already stated, confined itself to an
affirmation of the judgment of the State court on the ground
that the plaintiff bank owed the money borrowed, and that
it could not recover it back in this action, although paid
under the coercion of the decree of the Provost Court, I
should have acquiesced. But to uphold the civil jurisdiction
of that military tribunal upon the presumed assent to its
investment with such jurisdiction by the President of the
United States, when, as I think, the President refused to
permit the exercise of any such jurisdiction during the war,
appears to me to be uncalled for and erroneous.
Provost courts are military courts having a well-knowif
jurisdiction, which is limited exclusively to minor offences,
tending to disorder and breaches of the peace, by soldiers
and citizens within the lines of an army, and occupy with
reference to such offences a similar position with that of
police courts in our cities.
The power and jurisdiction of these courts were the subject of frequent consideration during the late war by the
Judge-Advocate-General of the army, and by him were
brought to the attention of the Secretary of War and the
President. His opinions upon these subjects, when approved by the Department of War, were adopted as directions of the executive head of the government for the guidance of the officers of the army. And it is impossible to
read the opinions without perceiving in almost every line
that the jurisdiction of the tribunals was limited to offetices
of a petty character, and that the government intended that
such jurisdiction should not in any case be enlarged. By
* Trebilcock v. Wilson, 12 Wallace, 692-4.

302

MECHANICS' ETC. BANK v. UNION BANK.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

them it was declared that a general commanding a department, in which the ordinary criminal courts were suspended,
was authorized, under circumstancesrequiring the prompt adrninistration of justice, to appoint a provost judge for the trial of
minor offences, but that the graver violations of the law
should bereferred to military commissions; that the provost court was a tribunal whose jurisdiction was derived
from the customs of war, and was unknown to our legislation ; that it had no jurisdiction of offences of soldiers triable
before a court-martial or military commission; and that the
judgment of the Provost Court at New Orleans, directing
the imprisonment of men at Ship Island and the Dry Tortugas for desertion, marauding, mutiny, robbery, and larceny, was without sanction of law and wholly void. "The
jurisdiction of a provost court," said one of these opinions,
"should be confined to cases of police merely, to wit: such
cases as are summarily disposed of daily by the police courts
in our large cities, as, for instance, cases of drunkenness,
disorderly conduct, assault and battery, and of violation of
such civil ordinances or military regulations as may be in
force for the government of the locality. The provost judge
supplies the place of the local police magistrate in promptly
acting upon the class of cases described, without, at the
same time, being necessitated (as a formal military commission would be) to preserve a detailed record of the testimony
and proceedings in each case."
In another case, where an order of a commander of a department authorized a provost court to settle questions of
title to personal property, it was declared that that was a
subject of which no military court could properly take cognizance, and the department commander was advised that
the jurisdiction of such tribunals as provost courts, in time
of war, could only be extended to matters of police.*
* See record of opinions in the office of the Judge-Advocate-General, vol.
ii, 14; vol. vi, 635, 639; vol. viii, 638; vol. xii, 386; vol. xiii, 392; vol. xv,
519. An excellent digest of these opinions was prepared by Major W. Winthrop, of the United States Army, in 1868, and published by authority of
the Secretary of War.

Oct. 1874.]

MECHANICS'

ETC. BANK V.

UNION BANK.

303

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

In the face of these promulgations from the department
of military justice, approved by the Secretary of War, and
through him by the President, how can it be said that the
Provost Court in New Orleans was presumably authorized
by the President to exercise civil jurisdiction ? From inquiries which I have made since this case has been pending,
I think I am justified in stating that no case has arisen in
which the exercise of civil jurisdiction by one of these tribunals has ever been, even impliedly, sanctioned by the government. Whenever aiy attempt by them to exercise such
jurisdiction has been brought to the attention of the executive department, it has been uniformly and promptly condemned.
Besides, the assent of the executive can only be presumed
in support of such acts of a subordinate officer as legitimately fall within the sphere of that officer's duties, and
with the execution of which he is usually charged. Acts
relating to the movement of troops and the furnishing of
supplies to them, directed by the Secretary of War, may
well be presumed to have been authorized by the President,
because the execution of such measures falls within the
sphere of the War Department. But no presumption would
arise that they were thus authorized if the directions proceeded from the Postmaster-General or the New York collector of customs, because to neither of those officers are,
such duties usually intrusted.
Now, it is no part of the duty of a military commander,
whether putting down an insurrection against the government or engaged in making foreign conqnest, to settle the
pecuniary obligations of citizens to each other, or to provide
a court for their determination. His whole duty is to subdue, by force, the insurrection in the one case and opposition
to the extension of the dominion of his government in the
other; and when this is accomplished, to preserve order in
the community until his superior authorities direct what
further proceedings shall be taken. Until such directions
are given the military commander cannot lawfully go beyond his simple military duties.

304

MECHANICS' ETC. BANK V. UNION BANK.

[Sup. Clt.

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

So, when a civil government was established in New
Mexico, by order of General Kearney, after that officer had
conquered that province by the forces under his command,
he acted pursuant to special instructions from the President,
through the head of the War Department. le carried the
instructions with him, prepared in advance, so confident was
the President that certain conquest would attend the march
of our troops.
"Should you conquer and take possession of New Mexico
and Upper California, or considerable places in either," said
these instructions, issued on the 3d of June, 1846, "you will
establish temporary civil governments therein, abolishing all arbitrary restrictions that may exist, so far as it may be done
with safety. In performing this duty it would be wise and
prudent to continue in their employment all such executive
officers as are known to be friendly to the United States,
and will take the oath of allegiance to them."*
I think, therefore, that the majority of the court are mistaken in their statement that there was no express order for
the establishment of courts and a judic ial system by General
Kearney in New Mexico, emanating from the President or
commander-in-chief. The authority for the establishment
of civil government included the establishment of different
departments of such govern met, judicial as well as others. t
The case of Leiensdo?:fer v. Webb,T cited by the majority in
support of their views, does not, therefore, appear to me to
touch the real qhestion at issue. There, General Kearney,
having his specific instructions from the President, and, as
this court stated in that case, " holding possession for the
United States, in virtue'of the power of conquest and occupancy, and in obedience to the duty of maintaining the
security of the inhabitants, ordained, under the sanction and
Executive Documents, 2d session of 29th Congress, vol. iii, 1846 and 47,
1
No. 19.
t The ordinance of General Kearney establishing civil government in
New Mexico, with courts of civil and criminal jurisdiction, provided that
the judges of those courts should be appointed by the President of the United
States. Same documents, No. 19, page 80.
1 20 Howard, 176.

Oct. 1874.]

MECHANICS' ETC. BANK V.

UNION BANK.

805

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

authority of the United States, a provisional or temporary government for the acquired territory."
As to the appointment of Judge Peabody as provisional
judge of New Orleans, which was held valid in the case of
The Grapeshot,* a case cited as conclusive of the question
under consideration here, the appointment came directly
from the President. On the 20th of"October, 1862, he issued
his order, reciting that the insurrection had temporarily sub:
verted and swept away the civil institutions of Louisiana,
including the judiciary and judicial authorities of the Union,
so that it had become necessary to hold the State in military
occupation, and that it was indispensable that there should
be some judicial tribunal existing there, capable of administering justice; and that, therefore, he had thought proper
to establish and did establish a Provisional Court, and appoint a judge thereof, with authority to hear, try, and determine all causes, civil and criminal, including causes in
law, equity, revenue, and admiralty, conforming his proceedings, as flu' as possible, to the course of proceedings and
practice of the courts of the United States in Louisiana, but
that the appointment of the judge should not extend beyond
the period of military occupation of the city ofNew Orleans
or the restoration of the civil authority in that city and
State.t
Upon the restoration of the civil authority the Provisional
Court thus established ceased to exist. In July, 1866, Congress enacted that all suits, causes, prosecutions, and proceedings of that court, proper for the jurisdiction of the
District or Circuit Court of the United States for Louisiana,
should be transferred to those courts respectively, and be
heard and determined therein, and that all judgments,
orders, and decrees of the Provisional Court, in cases thus
transferred, should at once become the orders, judgments,
and decrees of the District or Circuit Court, as the case
* 9 Wallace, 129.
t See the commission of President Lincoln to 3Mr. 0. A. Peabody,,supra,,
p. 279.,
VOL. XXI.

20

806

MECHANICS'

ETC. BANK V. UNION BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

might be, and be enforced, pleaded, and proved accordingly.*
We thus have the establishment of the court by the President, and the recognition of the legality of its establishment by Congress. Surely there is no analogy between that
case and the one at bar.
No other case is cited in support of the extraordinary
judgment of the Provost Court we are now considering,
and I feel confident that there is no authority in the previous
decisions of this court for the doctrine announced by the
majority in their opinion.
I do not question .that it was competent for the President
to authorize the establishhent by military officers, or civilians )ppointed military governors, of temporary courts, to
continue during the war, with civil as well as criminal jurisdiction to the extent essential for the security of persons
and property, in territory dominated by our forces, after the
overthrow of the insurgent power of the Confederates. Such
was the case with the military governor of Louisiana, who
was specially authorized in his commission from the President to establish all necessary tribunals within the State,
and whose appointment of judges of the third and fourth
District Courts in New Orleans was recognized as valid by
this court in the cases of .Handlin v. Wickliffe, reported in
the 12th of Wallace, and Pnnywit v. _alon, reported in the
15th of WvVallace.t All that I insist upon is, that where
* 15 Stat. at Large, 360.
j- The following is a copy of the commission issued by the President to
,General Shepley as military governor of Louisiana:
"COMMISSION AS M ILITARY GOvERNOR.
"WAR

DEPARTMENT, WASHLNGTON CITY,

Juno 3d, 1862.

Hon. GEORGE F. SHEPLEY, &C , &c.
H"

t SIR : You are hereby appointed military governor of the State of Lou-isiana, with authority to exercise and peraorm, within the limits of that
State, all and singular the powers, duties, and functions pertaining to the
office of military governor (includingthe power to establish all necessary offices
and tribunals and suspend the writ of habeas corpus), during the pleasure of
the -President, or until the loyal inhabitants of that State shall organize a
civil government in conformity with the Constitution of the United States.
"By the President.
"E. M. STANTON,
E E .UNITED STATES.1
,SEALQF
"Secretary of War."

Oct. 1874.]

MECHANICS' ETC. BANK V.

UNION

BANK.

807

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

such courts were established the authority from the President must be shown, and that it cannot be presumed from
the mere existence of the courts, and the exercise of jurisdiction by them. Sometimes, indeed, the general power
conferred upon a subordinate officer carried with it authority to establish such tribunals; as, for example, the power
conferred upon a military commander to establish a civil
government, carried authority to establish tribunals with
civil as well as criminal jurisdiction in the territory governed, for the administration of justice. But the mere possession of military power in a particular district within the
United States by an officer of the army of the United States
carried with it, by itself, no authority to establish tribunal,
to dispose of civil controversies between the inhabitants of
such district, and where any such authority is asserted to
have existed it must be shown to have been granted by the
President; it cannot be presumed, certainly not where the
ordinary jurisdiction of the court excluded any power over
civil controversies, as was the case with provost courts.
But supposing that the provost court in the present case
was rightly invested with civil jurisdiction, there was fiothing
to justify its judgment in the case mentioned.' It had already
given its judgment that the suit before it of the Union Bank
should be dismissed. There its powers ended. What subsequently it did was done under the dictation of its military
superior; and so, as if in derision of the proceeding, the
provost judge afterwards said to the counsel of the defendant, that no law need be read to him; that the commanding
general had ordered a new trial, and that "the case would
be decided under orders."
A judgment thus rendered wants all the elements of a
judicial determination, and is entitled to no respect in any
tribunal where justice is administered. The commanding
general, we all know, was a man of eminent ability, and
competent to sit in judgment upon any question of law,
however difficult; but he was not judge there; he was only
a military chieftain, and his order had nothing in it which

GAVINZEL V. CRUMP.

[Sup. Ct:.

Syllabus.

took from its character as an arbitrary edict of despotic
power.
The position that the judgment of the Provost Court was
validated by article 149 of the constitution of Louisiana of
1868, does not seem to me to merit any consideration.* The
article requires for the validation of the judgment that it must
have been rendered in accordance with existihg laws in the Slate,
and the assertion that any laws of the State at the time
authorized the establishment of a provost court, or that
such court should rehear a case upon the mandate of a commanding general of the United States, is a proposition
which needs only to be mentioned to be answered.
Besides; it is a novel doctrine in this country, that a judgment affecting private rights of property, not merely defective for want of compliance with some matter of form, but
absolutely void for want of jurisdiction in the court to
render it, can be validated by subsequent enactment, legislative or constitutional. I know of no judicial determination recognizing any such doctrine or even looking that way.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY was not present at the argument
of this case, and took no part in its decision.

GAVINZEL V.

CRUMP.

In November, 1863, during the rebellion, Confederate notes being then scmuch depressed in market value that in Richmond, Virginia, $3260 of
them were worth but $204 in gold coin, G., a Swiss, at the time resident in Richmond, but desirous to go to Europe-to escape to which
through the rebel lines was then extremely difficult-agreed to lend C.,
an American, resident in Richmond, the said sum of $3260 in the Confederate notes above mentioned, and C. borrowed the said sum in such
notes. C, executed his bond to G., by which it was agreed that the
money was not to become due and payable until the civil war should
be ended (during which no interest should be chargeable), nor become
* See the 149th article in the statement of the case, supra, 281.

