Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V. INSURANCE COMPANIES.

99

Statement of the case.

UNITED STATES V. INSURANCE COMPANIES.
1. Corporations created by the legislature of a rebel State while the State

was in armed rebellion against the government of the United States,
have power since the suppression of the rebellion, to sue in the Federal
courts, if the acts of incorporation had no relation to anything else than

the domestic concerns of the State, and they were neither in their app arent purpose nor in their operation hostile to the Union or in conflict
Rith the Constitution; but were mere ordinary legislation, such as
might have been bad there been no war or no attempted secession, and
such as is of yearly occurrence in all the States.
2. Such corporations may in proper cases sue under the Captured and Abandoned Property Act.

from the Court of Claims.
The Home Insurance Company and the Southern Insurance and Trust Company, both being corporations created
by the legislature of Georgia in 1861 and 1863, while the
State was in armed rebellion against the government of the
United States, brought suit in the court below against the
United States, under the Captured and Abandoned Property Act (an act which, by its terms, gives a right to sue
only to persons who have borne true faith and allegiance to
the government and have never voluntarily aided, abetted,
or given encouragement to rebellion), to recover the proceeds of the sale of cotton captured at Savannah, in 1864.
and now in the treasury of the United States. The United
States pleaded the general issue, and statute of limitations,
but no other plea.
On the argument, however, of the case, the counsel of
the govern.m ent set up that the courts of the United States
would not recognize the competency of thosi bodies known
as the legislatures of the insurgent States, to create corpoAPPEALS

rations, such as insurance, banking, and trust companies;
and as the plaintiffs in the court below were incorporated
under acts passed after the attempted secession of Georgia
from the Union, and befbre the close of the war, it was
argued that they could have now no legal existence. The
question thus raised, in the argument-the grounds made

100

UNITED STATES V. INSURANOE COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

by the pleas not having been at all supported by the evidence, and, in fact; not pressed-was accordingly whether
such corporations as were now suing could be recognized as
having a legal existence with capacity to own cotton and to
sue in the Court of Claims.
That court thought that they had, and gave judgment
against the government. The case, therefore, was now here
on its appeal; the same question being now presented here
in the argument, along with the further point, that if these
plaintiffs were competent to sue in the Federal courts, they
could not sue under the Captured and Abandoned Property
Act, because as corporations they could not bear true Iaith
and allegiance; that capability, as well as the contrary one
of voluntarily aiding, abetting, or giving encouragement to
rebell*ion being predicable of natural persons only; for whom
and not for corporations the act must be meant. This point,
however, was not made in the court below, nor its decision
thereon assigned for error. The errors assigned were that
the court erred"st. In holding that the claimants had a legal existence; and
"2d. In holding that the rebel legislature of Georgia could
create a corporation capable of suing the United States after
the suppression of the rebellion."
3ir. G. H. Williams, Attorney- General, and Mr. John Goforth, Assistant Atlorney- General,for the United States; iMessrs.
C. -P. Peck and W. W. McFarland,contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
It may well be doubted whether under the pleadings in
the court below the appellants have any right to raise the
objection here that the companies plaintiff have now no
legal existence, because incorporated after the attempted
secession of Georgia from the Union, and before the close
of the war. There was no plea that traversed directly the
corporate existence of the plaintiffs. A general denial of
the averments of the petition was hardly sufficient. Notwithstanding the old rule that a corporation suing must

Oct. 1874.] UNITED STATES V. INSURANCE COMPANIES.

101

Opinion of the court.

prove its corporate existence, it has been many times decided that a plea of the general issue admits its capacity to
sue, as does going to trial upon the merits.* And guch is
the established practice in the Court of Claims.t
We do not, however, rest our decision upon this ground.
We prefer answering the question which the appellants attempt to raise. No doubt the legislature of Georgia in 1861
and 1863, when the enactments were made for the incorporation of these plaintiffs, was not the legitimate legislature
of the State. The State had thrown off its connection with
the United States, and the members of the legislature had
repudiated, or had not taken, the oath by which the third
section of the sixth article of the Constitution requires the
members of the several State legislatures to be bound. But
it does not follow from this that it was not a legislature, the
acts of 'which were of force when they were made, and are
in force now. If not a legislature of the State de jure, it
was at least a legislature de facto. It was the only lawmaking body which had any existence. Its members acted
under color of office, by an election, though not qualified
according to the requirements of the Constitution of the
United States. Now, while it must be held that all their
acts in hostility to that Constitution, or to the Union of
which the State Wxas an inseparable member, have no validity, no good reason can be assigned why all their other
enactments, not forbidden by the Constitution, should'not
have the force which the lax generally accords to the action
of de facto public officers. What that is was well stated by
Kent in the second volume of his Coinmentaries. + "In the
case of public officers," lie says, "who are such 'de facto,'
acting under the color of office by an election or appointment not strictly legal, or without having qualified, them* Lehigh Bridge Company v. The Lehigh Coal and Navigi.tion Company,
4 Rawle, 9; Sutton v. Cole, 3 Pickering, 245; Conard v. The Athntic Insurance Co., 1 Peters, 450; The Society for the Propagation of the Gospel
v. The Town of Pawlet, 4 Id. 601.
t Hebrew Congregation v. The United States, 6 Court of Claim Reports,

244.

1 Page 295. •

102

UNITED STATES V. INSURANCE COMPANIES.

[SUp. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

selves by the requisite tests, or by holding over after the
time prescribed for a new appointment, as in the case of
sheriffs, constables, &c., their acts are held valid as it respects the right of third persons who have an interest in
them, and as concerns the public, in order to prevent the
failure of justice." And thus this court has ruled in regard
to the legislatures of the insurgent States in several eases
which have come up for our decision. In Texas v. White and
Gliles,* Chief Justice Chase in delivering the opifion of the
court (while declining to attempt any exact definition within
which the acts of an insurgent State government must be
treated as valid or invalid), remarked: "It may be said, perhaps with sufficient accuracy, that acts necessary to peace and
good order among citizens, such, for example, as acts sanctioning and protecting marriage and the domestic relations,
governing the course of descents, regulating the conveyance
and transfers of property, real and personal, providing remedies for injuries to person and estate, and other similar
acts which would be valid, if emanating-from a lawful government, must be regarded, in general, as valid when proceeding from an actual, though unlawful goveramelt; and
that acts in furtherance, or in support of the rebellion against
the United States, or intended to defeat the just rights of
citizens, and other acts of like nature, must in general be
regarded as invalid and void." This language was intended only as an outline, but it sufficiently indicates where
is the line bptween valid and invalid acts of the legislatures
of the insurgent States. Similar opinions were expressed
in Sprott v. The United States, a case decided at tldis term.t
There, when speaking of the powers of the insurgent States,
our language was, "It is only when in the use of these powers
substantial aid and comfort was given, or intended to be
given to the rebellion, when the functions necessarily repos'd in the State for the maintenance of civil society were
perverted to the manifest and intentional aid of treason
against the government of the Union, that their acts are
*7 Wallace, 700.

t 20 Id. 459.

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED

STATES V.

INSURANCE

COMPANIES.

103

Opinion of the court.

void."

Alnd with equal distinctness was it said in Horn v.

Lockhart,* "We admit that the acts of the several States"
(in insurrection) " in their individual capacities, and of their
different departaents of government, executive, judicial,
and legislative, during the war, so far as they did not impair, or tend to impair the supremacy of the National authority, or the just rights of citizens under the Constitution,
are, in general, to be treated as valid and binding. The existence of a state of insurrection and war did not loosen the
bonds of society, or do away with civil government, or the
regular administration of the laws. . . . No one that we
are aware of seriously questions the validity of judicial or
legislative acts iii the insurrectionary States, touching these
and kindred subjects, when they were not hostile in their
purpose or mode of enforcement to the authority of the National government, and did not impair the rights of citizens
under the Constitution." After these emphatic utterances
controversy upon this subject should cease. All the enactments of the de facto legislatures in the insurrectiolary
States during the war, which were not hostile to the Union,
or to the authority of the General government, and which
were not in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States, or of the States, have the same validity as if they had
been enactments of legitimate legislatures. Any other doctrine than this would work great and unnececsary hardship
upon the people of those States, without any corresponding
benefit to the citizens of other States, and without any advantage to the National government.
Tried by the rule thus stated, the enactments by which
the plaintiffs in these cases were incorporated must be treated
as valid. They had no relation to anything else than the
domestic concerns of the State. Neither in their apparent
purpose, nor in their operation were they hostile to the
Union, or in conflict with the Constitution. They were
mere ordinary legislation, such as might have been had
there been no war, or no attempted secession; such as is of
* 17 Wallace, 580.

104

UNITED STATES V. INSURANCE COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

yearly occurrence in all the States of the Union. We hold,
therefore, that the Court of Claims correctly decided that
the plaintifs were lawfully incorporated, and that they had
a legal capacity to sue in that court.
It remains only to notice one other position taken by the
appellants during the argument. It is that even if the plaintifls below are corporations which this court pan recognize
as such, they cannot sue in the Court of Claims for the proceeds of the sale of captured and abandoned property because, as it is argued, the Captured and Abandoned Property Act provides only for suits by persons who could have
given aid and comfort to the rebellion. It is said, corporations were incapable of giving such aid, and that they cannot make proof that they have never given it. Nothing in
the assignments of error justifies the presentation of such an
argument. But were it otherwise, the argument would be
plainly unsound. The act of Congress confers the right to
sue upon any person claiming to have been the owner of the
captured or abandoned property. It makes no distinction
between natural ai'd artificial persons, and it has not been
doubted that corporations created before the war commenced
might sue. Many such actions have been sustained. It is
no objection to them that plaintiffiin all suits are required
to make proof that they have never given aid and comfbrt
to the rebellion. Such proof may be made as well by artificial as natural persons. Corporations may have rendered
very substantial aid to the armed resistance to the laws of
the United States. They may have made loans or contributions to the Confederate government. They may even have
fitted out companies or regiments of soldiers. If they have
rendered no aid, the fact is quite capable of proof.
JUDGMENTS AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice BIRADLEY did not sit in this case.

