Oct. 1874.]

ROBINSON V. ELLIOTT.

513

Syllabus.

tions and settlements, and to open afresh claims that had
been disposed of. The Court of Claims had no right to go
behind the final settlement, and attempt to establish the
original facts of the case. Its findings of fact, in this respect, were illegal and void. The government has never
consented to be sued on this claim, or on any claims similarly situated.
The conclusion of law to which the court came, I think,
was correct, and the decree should be affirmed.

ROBINSON ET AL. V. ELLIOTT.
1. Under the Statute of Frauds in Indiana, which enacts in
"SECTION 10. That no assignment of goods bywayof mortgage shall bevalid
against any other person than the parties thereto, when such goods are not delivered to the mortgagee, or assignee, and retained by him, unless such assignment or mortgage shall be duly recorded-"
And in
"SE cTION 21. That the question of fraudulent intent in All cases shall be
deemed a question of fact-"

A mortgagor of chattels personal may, if the transaction be fair and the
mortgage made by him be duly recorded, retain possession of personal
chattels.
2. But the effect of the statute is not to make every recorded mortgage,
which prior to the statute would have been held fraudulent in law,
pjrsim, facie valid.
3. The recording of the mortgage contemplated by the statute was meant as
a substitute for possession, but was not meant to protect a mortgage from
all illegal stipulations contained in it.
4. Hence, where a trading firm in a city in Illinois owing money evidenced
by a series of notes, coming due from time to time for some months in
advance, made a mortgage of their stock of goods, the mortgage containing this clause:
"And it is hereby expressly agreed, that until default shall be made in the
payment of some one of said notes, or some paper in renewal thereof, the parties
of the first part may remain in possession of said goods, wares, and merchandise,
and may sell the same as heretofore, and supply their places with other goods,
and the goods substituted by purchase for those sold shall, upon being put into
said store, or any other store in said city where the same may be put forsale by
said parties of the first part, be subjected to the lien of this mortgage-"
VOL. X

1.

33

ROBINSON V. ELLIOTT.

[Sup. CL

Statement of the case.
The instrument then concluding with powers to the mortgagee, upon any
default, to have the right to enter into said store of the firm and take
possession of a sufficient amount of goods to satisfy, pay, and discharge
all the paper due, and have full power and authority, upon ten days'
public notice, to sell at public auction such amounts of said goods as
should be necessary to pay said paper; Held1. That the court was the proper party to say whether on its face the
mortgage was void.
2. That it was so void.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana; the case, as appeared by bill and demurrer,-being
thus:
On the 7th of July, 1871, John and Seth Coolidge, brothers,
were partners in the retail dry goods trade in Evansville,
Indiana, having been thus in business there since the year
1863. On the day just named they owed to a Mrs. Sloan
$3174, for money previously borrowed of her to aid them in
their business.
They also owed the First lNational Bank of Evansville
$7600, evidenced by seven promissory notes of the firm-all
maturing between the 25th of July and the 6th of October
of the year 1871-on which one Robinson was then an accommodation indorser; and to secure to Mrs. Sloan the payment of what was due to her and to indemnify Robinson as
indorser, they made to them a chattel mortgage upon their
stock of goods then in their rented store, including also the
furniture and fixtures connected with the same.
The mortgage, after reciting the liability of the firm to
Robinson, on the notes indorsed by him, stated that it was
contemplated, that in order to take up the notes, or some
of them, it might become necessary to renew the same, or
to discount other notes. The recital of the indebtedness to
Mrs. Sloan, by note at four months, with interest, was also
made with the statement that, if not convenient to the firm
to pay it at maturity, it might be renewed from time to time,
as the parties should agree.
After these recitals, and that of the mutual understanding
of the parties concerning the continuance of the debts, the
property was conveyed; the mortgage proceeding thus:

Oct. 1874.]

ROBINSON v. ELLIOTT.
Statement of the case.

"And it is hereby expressly agreed that until default shall be
made in the payment of some one of said notes, or some paper
in renewal thereof, the parties of the first part may remain in
possession of said goods, wares, and merchandise, and may sell
the same as heretofore and supply their plapes with other goods, and
the goods substituted by purchasefor those sold shall, upon being put
into said store or any other store in said city where the same may be
put for sale bj said parties of the first part, be subjected to the lien
of this mortgage."
The instrument concluded with separate powers to the
mortgagees, Robinson and Mrs. Sloan, on default in payment of their respective claims, to seize and sell sufficient
goods to satisfy the same.
All the debts owing by the firm at the date of the mortgage, other than those secured by it, have been paid, except
$3500 due to one Alfred Coolidge, father of the two partners Coolidge, for borrowed money.
The mortgagors remained in possession of the property,
and bought and sold as they had been accustomed to do,
from the date of the mortgage, to August 7th, 1873, when
Seth Coolidge, one of the partners, died. During this interval of twenty-five months the interest and less than $100
of the principal of Mrs. Sloan's debt was paid, and the interest and about one-third of the principal of the bank debt.
The note of Mrs. Sloan's was not renewed, but was overdue
about twenty-one months. Robinson continued to indorse
for the firm. Immediately after the death of Seth Coolidge
the property of the firm, consisting of the old stock, goods
subsequently purchased, and debts due the firm, was inventoried and appraised, and found to be very little in excess
of the debts owing by the firm. This inventory and appraisement was completed on September 15th, and on the
following day Robinson and Mrs. Sloan seized the goods
and were about to sell them. However, on the 26th of September and before the ten days required by the terms of the
mortgage for notice of sale had expired, proceedings in
bankruptcy were begun against the surviving partner, Seth
Coolidge, and an injunction was got to stay any sale.

ROBINSON V. ELLIOTT.

[Sup. or.

Argument in support of the mortgagees.

Coolidge having been decreed a bankrupt, one Elliott, on
the 15th of November, 1873, was appointed his assignee,
and demanded the goods from Robinson and Mrs. Sloan.
They refused to deliver them to him. Hereupon Robinson
and Mrs. Sloan filed a bill against Elliott, setting forth the
facts as above given, and praying that an account might be
taken.of what was due to them, and that the goods might
be sold to pay it. Elliott, the assignee, demurred, and the
court below sustained the demurrer, and rendered a decree
dismissing the bill. Robinson and Mrs. Sloan then brought
the case here.
The Statute of Frauds* of Indiana makes the following
provisions:
"SECTION 10. No assignment of goods by way of mortgage
shall be valid against any other person than the parties thereto,
when such goods are not delivered to the mortgagee or assignee,
and retained by him, unless such assignment or mortgage shall
be acknowledged, as provided in cases of deeds of conveyance,
and recorded in the recorder's office of the counity where the
mortgagor resides, within ten days after the execution thereof.
"SEcTION 21. The question of fraudulent intent in all cases
arising under the provisions of this act, shall be deemed a question of fact, nor shall any conveyance or charge be adjudged
fraudulent as against creditors or purchasers solely upon the
ground that it was not founded on a valuable consideration."

Messrs. A. .nglehart and A. L. Robinson, for the appellants:
It is manifest from the tenth and twenty-first sections of
the Statute of Frauds of Indiana, that the legislature of that
State, while intending to guard against frauds, intended also
to permit the use of personal property by way of chattel
mortgages as a security for the payment of debts, in the
same manner that real estate is used for that purpose, and
that questions of fraud, which might arise under the law,
should be questions of fact and not of law.
Previous-to the enactment of this statute of registration,
it was necessary to the validity of chattel mortgages that
* 1 G. & H. R. 351.

Oct. 1874.]

ROBINsON V. ELLIOTT.
Argument in support of the mortgagees.

there should be a manual delivery of the mortgaged property to the mortgagee, who should continue to hold the
same in his possession, but under this statute the record of
the mortgage is substituted for such delivery, and is full and
complete notice to all the world of the rights and interests
of the parties.*
The questions which present themselves in this case have
not, it is true, been fully and clearly determined by the Supreme Court of Indiana. But we submit that the decisions
which have been made are all in our favor, and settle these
propositions:
1. Where the mortgage has been duly recorded in time,
the same is prima facie valid.
2. Where the mortgage is recorded and contains such a
provision as the one in the mortgage here, it is still prima
facie valid, and the question of fraud is a question for the
jury. In other words, that there is no such thing recognized in our courts in this class of cases as fraud per se.
3. Where a mortgage is made in terms to include afteracquired property, the mortgage will attach to the property
when it is acquired, and will operate as a lien upon it in
equity.
The case of Maple v. Burnsidet would, indeed, seem to
have decided the question under consideration. The main
question before the coart was, whether Maple, the attachment defendant, had sold, conveyed, or otherwise disposed
of his property with the intent to cheat, hinder, or delayany of his creditors. The fact of fraud relied on was the
making of d chattel mortgage, permitting the mortgagor to
remain in possession of the goods, and deal with them as his
own.
The court below, among others, gave the following instruction:
"1If,after the mortgage was given, the defendant remained in
possession of the property mortgaged, after the time named in
Wright v. Bundy, 11 Indiana, 398; Duke v. Strickland, 48 Id. 494.
t 22 Indiana, 139; and see Ohissom v. Hawkins, 11 Id. 316; Ooe v.
M fBrown, 22 Id. 252.

ROBINSON

v.

ELLIOTT.

[Sup. Or.

Argument in support of the mortgagees.

it, using and trading with the property as the owner, it is a
fraud, and you must find for the plaintiff."
In delivering the opinion of the court, Hanna, J., says:
"It appears to us this instruction was calculated to confuse
and mislead the jury to the prejudice of the defendant. ... If
it was intended to say that the defendant could not hold possession after the date of the mortgage, it is certainly erroneous.
If some other point of time was intended to be indicated at
which the possession of the defendant should cease to be rightful, it should have been more specific, especially in view of the
fact that the date when the debts secured by the mortgage
were to become due is not stated particularly, and the right to
retain said possession was to remain in the mortgagor until the
maturity and failure to pay said debts."
The case was reversed for the error contained in the instruction given.
It must be admitted that this opinion of the Supreme
Court, in which the judge undertakes to state the case, is
wanting in perspicuity in the statement of the facts. But
the record clearly shows that the validity of the mortgage
was in question; and that the Circuit Court had assumed in
its instruction, just as the circuit judge has decided here,
that if the mortgagor after the mortgage was executed, kept
possession of the goods and sold and dealt with them as
his own, the mortgage would be fraudulent and void.
If we are right as to what is the law in Indiana on this
question, and if the validity of the mortgage is to be settled,
as of course it is to be, by that law, we may rest the argument here. As for the authority of cases decided in other
States of the Union that the mortgage is invalid, it is
enough to say that the opinion of the Supreme Court of
Maine,* the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, with Shaw as
its chieft the Supreme Court of Michigan, with Cooley as its
chief,J the Supreme Court of Iowa, with Dillon as its chief,ยง
* Abbott v. Goodwin, 20 Maine.

t Macomber v. Parker, 14 Pickering, 497.
: Oliver v. Eaton, 7 Michigan, 108; Gray v. Bidwell, Ib. 520.
Torbert v. Hayden, 11 Iowa, 435; Hughes v. Cory, 20 Id. 399.

Oct. 1874..]

ROBINSON v. ELLIOTT.
Argument in support of the general creditors.

the Circuit Court of the United States for the first circuit,
Story, J., presiding;* and the Supreme Court of Indiana,
the State .where, and under whose statutes the question
arises, are arrayed against the vacillating and unsatisfactory rulings of New York, rendered under peculiar constructions of their statutes, against the cases in Illinois, under
their very peculiar statutes, and the cases in Ohio, and perhaps Wisconsin and Missouri, following the same line of
argument.
Mr. W. E .Niblack, contra, contendedThat no question about the respective domains of law and
fact could arise in this case; the proceeding being by bill in
chancery, and the case being made by a demurrer to it.
That while in Maple v. Burnside, relied on by the other side,
the case was bo confusedly stated, that it was difficult to say
exactly what it was, there was nothing in the report to show
that the mortgage contained any provision permitting the
mortgagee to remain in possession and deal with the goods,
and that the judgment established no right in a mortgagor
of chattels even in Illinois to do so.
That the tenth section of the statute of Indiana did not
change this rule of the common law, and that the argument of the plaintiff in error went to the extent of allowing
the enactment, that a mortgage of chattels, where possession
did not accompany the title, should nevertheless be valid
when recorded, to set up as valid every fraudulent device
which under the aspect of a mortgage might be put on
record in pursuance of the statute.
That from the case of Grantham v. Hawley, decided so far
back as the time of llobart,t it had been settled that a mortgage was void as to after-acquired property except where
the mortgagor had a present actual interest in it or concerning it; that there must be something in presentiof which the
thing in futuro was to be the product, or with which it was
to be connected as necessary for its use, or as incident to it,
* Mitchell v. Winslow, 2 Story, 630.

t Hobart, 132* .

ROBINSON

I

V. ELLIOTT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

constituting a tangible, existing basis for the contract. The
future property must be an accretion to the property already
owned by the mortgagor, either by adding the future to the
present, or by growth. Thus, to take Hobart's illustration,
that while one might mortgage all the wool which should
grow for a term of years on any number of sheep owned by
him at the time, he could not mortgage the wool to be
grown on any sheep at all ifhe did not own them; a position
for the principle of which the counsel cited cases from
nearly every State in the Union.
And in short, that although the question might appear,
to some extent, an open one in Indiana, a reference to the
notes, English and American, upon Twyne's case in Smith's
Leading Cases,* would show that the judicial mind of both
England and the United States had ascertained and fixed the
rule that after-acquired chattels were not subject to lien by
way of mortgage; that this rule was moreover a wise one,
since to sanction a contrary rule and so to give effect to
transactions like the one under consideration, would open
a door to frauds innumerable and of the most extensive sort.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
There are few subjects which have been more discussed
in the courts of this country, with less uniformity of decision,
than that of sales and mortgages of personal goods, without
delivery of possession. In Indiana the statute of 13th Elizabeth has been adopted, and two provisions applicable to this
case engrafted on it. The first declares that "no assignment of goods by way of mortgage shall be valid against
any other person than the parties thereto, when such goods
are not delivered to the mortgagee, or assignee, and retained by him, unless such assignment or mortgage" shall
be duly recorded. And the second says, "that the question
of fraudulent intent in all cases shall be deemed a question
of fact."
Prior to the incorporation of these provisions in the statute it was necessary to the validity of chattel mortgages in
Seventh American edition, vol. 1, p. 7.

Oct. 1874.]

ROBINSON V. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the court.

Indiana that there should be a manual delivery of the mortgaged property to the mortgagee, who should continue to
hold the same in his possession. These provisions changed
the law in this particular, and permitted the retention of the
possession of personal property by the mortgagor in a chattel
mortgage given as a security for the payment of debts. And
there can be no question that in Indiana a mortgage, which
simply allows the mortgagor to retain the possession and use
of the property until breach of the condition is, when duly
recorded,-prima facie valid. But it is insisted that the effect
of these provisions is also to make a mortgage of a stock of
goods, containing a provision authorizing the mortgagor to
retain possession for the purpose of selling in the usual
course of trade, primndfacie valid, and that the court cannot,
as a matter of law, pronounce it fraudulent. This, we
think, is going beyond what the legislature intended. If
registraotion was intended, as we think it was, as a substitute
for delivery of possession, it was not meant to be a protection for all the other stipulations contained in a mortgage.
If so, it could be used as a cover for any fraudulent transaction, which would have to be treated, on the theory advanced, as valid, until the contrary .was shown.
It is true the law conferred on the parties the right to
agree that the possession of the property could remain with
the mortgagor, provided the mortgage be recorded; but if
the mortgage contains other provisions, which, on legal
principles, vitiates the whole instrument, it is difficult to see
how recording it could make it even primdfacie valid. The
Bill of Sales Registration Act in England makes void all
bills of sale not filed as required, if unaccompanied by possession. An eminent writer in speaking of this act says:
"Of course the mere fact of due registration of a bill of
sale, under this act, does not necessarily make it good against
creditors. The act was not passed with a view of making
good a title which was not good before, but for the protection of creditors."* And to the same effect is Wood v.

Lowry.t
* Mlay on Fraudulent Conveyances, p. 120.

t" 17 Wendell, 495-6.

ROBINSON V. ELLIOTT.

ESup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It is argued, however, that there can be no such thing in
this class of cases as constructive fraud, because under the
statute the question of fraudulent intent is one of fact. But
the Supreme Court of Indiana has decided the question differently. The statute of that State for the prevention of
frauds embraces twenty-two sections. The-tenth relates to
the registration of chattel mortgages; the seventeenth enacts that every assignment, &c., of any estate in lands, or of
goods, made with intent to hinder, delay, or defraud creditors, shall be void; and the twenty-first declares that the
question of fraudulent intent, in all cases arising under the
provisions of this act, shall be deemed a question of fact.
It will thus be seen that the last section applies to conveyances of land as well as to assignments of goods by way of
mortgage. In Jennersand others v. Doe on the demise of Pomeroy and others,* the question was whether a deed of trust on
certain lands was void as to creditors who did not consent
to it. The court of original jurisdiction held the deed void
upon its face as a question of law. It was contended that this
ruling was erroneous, and that in all cases the instrument
must be referred to the jury in connection with the facts.
But the Supreme Court held the ruling to be correct.
They say that the provisions embraced in the seventeenth
and twenty-first sections of the statute have declared, not
changed, the law on the subject; that the court must, in the
first instance, determine upon the legal effect of a written
instrument, and if that be to delay creditors it is rejected.
If, however, on its face it conforms to the law, it is received
in evidence, and the question of the intent with which it
was executed is an open one for the jury. It would seem
to be the view of the court in this case, as well as in the
preceding one in the same volume, of Ngutter v. Harris, that
the twenty-first section applies to cases of actual or meditated and intentional fraud, and is not applicable to written
instruments which the law adjudges to be fraudulent on
their face and consequently void.
There is, therefore, nothing in the way'of the considera* 9 Indiana, 461.

Oct. 1874.]

ROBINSON V. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the court.

tion of the main question involved in this controversy on its
merits.
If chattel mortgages were formerly, in most of the States,
treated as invalid unless actual possession was surrendered
to the mortgagee, it is not so now, for modern legislation
has, as a general thing (the cases to the contrary being exceptional) conceded the right to the mortgagor to retain
possession, if the transaction is on good consideration and
boa fide. This concession is in obedience to the wants of
trade, which deem it beneficial to the community that the
owners of personal property should be able to make bond
fide mortgages of it, to secure creditors, without any actual,
change of possession.
But the creditor must take care in making his contract
that it does not contain provisions of no advantage to him,
but which benefit the debtor, and were designed to do so,
and are injurious to other creditors. The law will not sanction a proceeding of this kind. It will not allow the creditor
to make use of his debt for any other pfirpose than his own
indemnity. If he goes beyond this, and puts into the contract stipulations which have the effect to shield the property
of his debtor, so that creditors are delayed in the collection
of their debts, a court of equity will not lend its aid to enforce the contract. These principles are not disputed, but
the courts of the country are not agreed in their application
to mortgages, with somewhat analogous provisions to the
one under consideration. The cases cannot be reconciled,
by any process of reasoning, or on any principle of law. As
the question has never before been presented to this court,
we are at liberty to adopt that rule on the subject which
seems to us the safest and wisest. It is not difficult to see
that the mere retention and use of personal pri'operty until
default is altogether a different thing from the retention of
possession accompanied with a power to dispose of it for the
benefit of the mortgagor alone. The former is permitted
by the laws of Indiana, is consistent with the idea of
security, and may be for the accommodation of the mortgagee; but the latter is inconsistent with the nature and

:ROBINSON V. ELLIOTT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

character of a mortgage, is no protection to the mortgagee,
and of itself furnishes a pretty effectual shield to a dishonest
debtor. We are not prepared to say that a mortgage under
- the Indiana statute would not be sustained which allows a
stock of goods to be retained by the mortgagor, and sold by
him at retail for the express purpose of applying the proceeds to the payment of the mortgage debt. Indeed, it
would seem that such an arrangement, if honestly carried
out, would be for the mutual advantage of the mortgagee
and the unpreferred creditors. But there are features engrafted on this mortgage which are not only to the prejudice
of creditors, but which show that other considerations than
the security of the mortgagees, or their accommodation
even, entered into the contract. Both the possession and
right of disposition remain with the mortgagors. They are
to deal with the property as their own, sell it at retail,
and use the money thus obtained to replenish their stock.
There is no covenant to account with the mortgagees, nor
any recognition that the property is sold for their benefit.
Instead of the mortgage being directed solely to the bond
fide security of the debts then existing, and their payment
at maturity, it is based on the idea that they may be indefinitely prolonged. As long as the bank paper could be renewed, Robinson consented to be bound, and in Mrs. Sloan's
case it was not expected that the debt would be paid at maturity, but that it would be renewed from time to time, as
the parties might agree. It is very clear that the instrument
was executed on the theory that the business could be carried on as formerly by the continued indorsement of Robinson, and that Mrs. Sloan was indifferent about prompt
payment. The correctness of this theory is proved by the
subsequent conduct of the parties, for the mortgagees remained in possession of the property, and bought and sold
and traded in the manner of retail dry-goods merchants,
from July 7th, 1871, to August 7th, 1873. During this
period of twenty-five months Robinson indorsed as usual,
and Mrs. Sloan was content with the payment of a small
portion of the principal of her debt. Instead of getting it

Oct. 1874.]

IRoBINsON v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the court.

renewed, as contemplated by the mortgage, she seems to
have been willing to let it remain dishonored, and the fair
inference from the averments of the bill is that Robinson
would have continued to indorse, and Mrs. Sloan exhibit
the same easy indifference on the subject of her indebtedness, if the death of Seth Coolidge had not dissolved the
firm and compelled an inventory and appraisement, showing
the desperate condition of the mortgagors. It hardly need
be said that a mortgage which, by its very terms, authorizes
the parties to accomplish such objects is, to say the least of
it, constructively fraudulent.
Manifestly it was executed to enable the mortgagors to
continue their business and appear to the world as the absolute owners of the goods, and enjoy all the advantages
resulting therefrom. It is idle to say that a resort to the
record would have shown the existence of the mortgage, for
men get credit by what they apparently own and possess,
and this ownership and possession had existed without interruption for ten years. There was nothing to put creditors
on their guard. On the contrary, this long-continued possession and apparent ownership were well calculated to create confidence and disarm suspicion. But apart from this,
security was not the leading object. If so, why does Mrs.
Sloan's note remain overdue for twenty-one months, and
why does Robinson continue to indoyse? This conduct is
the result of trust and confidence, which, as Lord Coke tells
us, are ever found to constitute the apparel and cover of
fraud.
In truth, the mortgage, if it can be so called, is but an
expression of confidence, for there can be no real security
where there is no certain lien.
Whatever may have been the motive which actuated the
parties to this instrument, it is manifest that the necessary
result of what they did do was to allow the mortgagors,
under cover of the mortgage, to sell the goods as their own,
and appropriate the proceeds to their own purposes- and
this, too, for an indefinite length of time. A mortgage
which, in its very terms, contemplates such results, besides

ROBINSON V. ELLIOTT.

[Sup. ot,

Opinion of the court.

being no security to the mortgagees, operates in the most
effectual manner to ward off other creditors; and where the
instrument on its face shows that the legal effect of it is
to delay creditors, the law imputes to it a fraudulent purpose. The views we have taken of this case harmonize with
the English common-law doctrine, and are sustained by a
number of American decisions. In the American editor's
note to Twyne's case,* most of the cases in this country on
the subject are collected and classified.t
It is contended by the appellants that the rulings of the
Indiana courts are in favor of the validity of this mortgage,
and the main case relied on to support this position is Maple
v. Burnside. The facts of this case are stated in the opinion
of the court in a way to render it difficult for any practitioner
outside of the State to understand the application to them
of the legal rules which are discussed, but there is nothing
to show that the mortgage there considered contained any
provision permitting the mortgagor to remain in possession
of the property and deal with it as his own, nor does the
judgment of the court involve any such question. The case
would seem to be chiefly valuable as an authoritative exposition of certain points of nsi prius practice. Although we
have been unable to find any case from Indiana of similar
facts with the one at bar, yet the decision in the New Albany
Insurance Company v. IVilcoxson,j would seem to imply that
when such a case did arise it would be decided in accordance
with the views we have presented. The point ruled in that
case is, that if a mortgage is executed merely to protect
property in the hands of the mortgagor from his creditors
other than the mortgagee, the mortgagor retaining possession and the right of disposition, and these facts appear
upon the face of the mortgage, it would be fraudulent and
void as against other creditors, and should be so declared
by the court. And the court, to sustain this proposition,
In Smith's Leading Cases, vol. i, p. 52, 7th American edition.

t See, also, M-ittnacht v Kelly, 3 Keyes, 407; Yates v. Olmsted, 65 Barbour, 43; Barnet v. Fergus, 61 Illinois, 362; Re Manly, 2 Bond, 261 โข Re
Kabley, 2 Bissell, 383.
1 21 Indiana, 355.

Oct. 1874.]

TUCKER V. FERGUSON.
Syllabus.

refer to Freemnan v. Rawson,* a standard authority in this
class of cases, for the views we have advanced on this subject.
Fidally, it is insisted if the mortgage is held void in law,
still the delivery of the goods in. pledge vests a sufficient
lien, prinia facie, to enable the appellants to enforce their
lien in equity.
The answer to this is, that the case made by the bill does
not proceed upon such a delivery at all, but upon the mortgage and seizure under it. Besides, if the appellants could
turn the proceeding into a voluntary pledge by the debtors,
it would not help them, for it would violate the preference
clause of the Bankrupt Act, as they got the goods only
twelve days before the petition in bankruptcy was filed.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

TUCKER V. FERGUSON ET AL.
1. Congress, by act of 1857, granted public lands to a State, to be IIheld"
by it, to aid in the construction of a railroad through the State, the
road, when made, to be and remain a public highway for the use of the
government of the United States, free from toll or other charges upon
the transportation of property or troops of the United States; the government to have a right also to carry the mails thereon.
The lands were to be exclusively applied in the construction of the road,
disposed of only as the work progressed, and applied to no other purpose whatsoever. The act prescribed that the mode of disposition should
be by sale made from time to time as the road advanced.
The State, by act of its legislature, accepted the lands "1with the restrictions and upon the terms and conditions contained in the said act of
Congress," and by the same act, in which the acceptance was made,
vested in a then recently organized railroad company the lands "fully
and completely, according to the act of Congress relating thereto and
the direction of the board of control" of the State (a body appointed
by its governor and Senate), and "whose duty" it was made by the act
"1to manage and dispose of the lands" in aid of the construction; the
company being made, moreover, subject to such rules and regulations
as the legislature of the State might from time to time enact and pro* 5 Ohio State, 1.

