HOUSE

v.

MULLEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

HOUSE ET AL. V. MULLEN.
1. A bill was filed by two parties, one of whom showed good cause for equitable relief, but the other of whom did not show what interest he had in the
subject-matter of litigation, or that he had any. The bill was demurred
to on several grounds, one being the want of such showing (which by
settled equity rule is a good ground of demurrer), and another ground
being that the bill showed that the claim was barred by the statute of
limitations, was stale, &c. ; an allegation about the bill not true in fact,
it showing the reverse, and this ground of demurrer therefore failing.
The court below " dismissed" the bill generally; and in this state the
record was of course capable of being pleaded in bar to a new suit on
the merits. This court being of opinion that the only defect in the bill
was that it did not show interest in both the parties while it did show
cause for equitable relief in one, refused to affirm th decree below, as
it would have done had the dismissal been withoulprejudice, or because
a party who showed no interest was a complainant. On the contrary,
to prevent what might be great injustice in case of another suit on the
merits, by the record being used in the way above mentioned, the court
reversed the decree and remanded the case with directions to allow the
complainant to amend his bill within a reasonable time, or failing to do
this to dismiss it without prejudice.
2. When a bill by a widow, claiming real estate, alleges that certain persons named, being several in number, all claim through a deed made
by her during coverture, which deed the bill alleges was void for want
of her free consent in making it, no demurrer lies to the bill on the
ground that the defendants were improperly joined, inasmuch as they
had separate and distinct interests which could not be joined in one
suit.

from the District Court for the Middle District
of Alabama.
On the 27th of Lovember, 1871, Eliza House filed a bill
in chancery, in the court below, against Andrew Mullen and
twenty-one others.
The bill set forth that on the 16th of March, 1838, the
said Eliza being then a married woman, a conveyance was
made by one Lawrence to a certain Gibson, for the consideration of $2700, of the half or undivided moiety of lot No.
22, in the town of Selma, Alabama; that by mistake this
was recorded as a conveyance of thc¢half of the undivided
moiety of said lot; that by the terms of the conveyance the
APPEAL

Oct. 1874.]

]HOUSE v. MULLEN.
Statement of the case.

trustee was to hold the property in trust for the benefit of
her the said Eliza during her natural life, after which he
was to convey in fee simple to such child or children as she
might have living at her death. The bill further alleged
that Gibson died in 1841, and Reuben House, the husband
of the complainant, in 1868; that from the date of the deed
from Lawrence to Gibson, the complainant lived on the.
premises, or received the rents and profits, until 1846; that
during this time her husband and herself removed from
Alabama to Florida; that the defendants were now in possession of the lot or parts of the same, claiming the whole
of it as owners, and asserting title under a deed which they
alleged to have been made by the complainant and her husband in 1846 to one Walker, which deed the complainant
alleged that she did not sign and seal as her voluntary act
and deed, freely and without compulsion of her said husband.
The bill prayed for the appointment of a trustee in place
of Gibson, who was dead. It also prayed for a partition
with the defendants, for an account of rents and profits, and
for such other and further relief as to equity belonged.
Before anything further was done, the complainant obtaindd leave to file an amended bill, and an entire new bill
was accordingly filed by her and Mary Hunter, and Charles
Hunter, husband of the said Mary. What interest Mr. and
Mrs. Hunter had in the matter, or how either was related
to anybody concerned in it, was nowhere stated. As for
the rest, the same matters were alleged in the new bill as
in the old. To this new bill the defendants demurred.
The grounds of demurrer set forth were1. That if the complainants had any rights as shown by
the bill, they were separate and distinct, and could not be
joined in this suit.
2. That the bill did not show any interest of Mary and
Charles Hunter in the subject-matter of the litigation.
3. That the defendants were improperly joined, inasmuch
as they had separate and distinct interests which could not
be joined in one suit.

44

HOUSE V.

MULLEN.

[Sup.

t.

Argument for the appellants.

4. And that the claim was stale, and barred by the statute
of limitations and by the long acquiescence of the complainants in the possession of the defendants as shown by the
bill.
The decree ran thus:
"This cause coming on, &c.,. .. it is considered by the court
that the said demurrer of the defendants . ..be sustained. It
is, therefore, adjudged and decreed that the said bill of complaint of Eliza House, Mary Hunter, and Charles Hunter, be
and the same is hereby dismissed out of this court."
The reader will observe that the dismissal was general and
absolute; not one for error or defect of parties or without
prejudice.
From this debree the complainants appealed.

Mr. W. W. Boyce, for the appellants:
The second ground of demurrer, and to which we will
first advert, was that no interest was specifically stated to
exist in Mr. and Mrs. Hunter. But Mrs. Hunter was plainly
the daughter of Mrs. House. The fact was inferable from
the allegations of both bills, that the trust was for 'iMrs.
House for life and for her child afterwards; from the patent
fact that the child was a party in interest and necessary;
and from the amended bill in which she was brought in.
The omission to state in terms the relationship was evidently one merely accidental, which should not have been
visited with the heavy penalty of such a dismissal as was
made-an absolute one-but if with any dismissal at all
with but one giving leave to amend.
But there was no ground for any sort of dismissal. The
fact of heirship being shown as above it is, as a matter inferable, the first ground of demurrer falls away. Mrs. House
and Mrs. Hunter had the same title; the former being equitable tenant for life and the latter tenant in remainder. The
husband was rightly added for form.
The third ground of demurrer is bad, because all the defendauts are alleged to be in possession under a deed made

Oct. 1874.]

HOUSE v. MULLEN.
Opinion of the court.

by the complainant, Mrs. House, which was executed under
duress.
As for the fourth ground, the statute of limitations, &c.,
the bill was filed in November, 1871. Mr. House, the husband, it is alleged in the bill and admitted by the demurrer,
died only in 1868. Till 1868 the complainant, Mrs. House,
was under disabilities. Every ground of demurrer, therefore, was bad.
No opposing counsel.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The fburth ground of demurrer-that the bill shows that
the claim was stale, barred by the statute, &c.-issufficiently answered by the averment of the bill that the plaintiff, Eliza House, was aferne covert from the time she parted
with the possession until the year 1868, the bill being filed
in 1871.
The third ground-that the defendants are improperly
joined-is equally indefensible, as the bill shows that defendants all claim through a deed from her, which deed she
alleged to be void for want of her free consent in making it.
If the case should come to a hearing the contest must
turn upon the validity of this deed, in which all the defendants have a common interest. Besides, she asks to have
her half divided or partitioned off to her. To obtain that
she is not obliged to file a separate bill against each of the
twenty-two defendants, if she is entitled to a half of the
whole lot on partition.
The two first causes of demurrer may be treated together.
The bill is fatally defective in joining Mary Hunter and
her husdand, Charles Hunter, as plaintiffs, and making no
allegation or averment of any interest whatever which they
have in the matter.
It is suggested by counsel for appellants that Mary Hunter
is the child of Eliza House, and that the statement of this
fact is omitted by a mere accident. But we have no evidence that Mary Hunter is the child of Eliza House, except

HousE v.

MULLEN.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

the statement of appellants' brief; nor could any evidence
of that fact be admitted under this bill.
The authorities are very clear that such a misjoinder, or
the bringing a suit by a plaintiff who shows no interest of
any kind in the suit, is fatal to the bill if taken on demurrer
or answer. We must in this suit hold that they have no
interest, as none is alleged, though it seems almost incredible that when this was distinctly pointed out as a ground of
demurrer the counsel did not ask leave to amend, either by
stating their interest or striking out their names.
The demurrer was, therefore, properly sustained and the
bill dismissed, as the presumption must be that no leave to
amend was asked.*
But when a bill is dismissed for misjoinder of parties it
settles nothing but that the suit cannot progress in that condition; and if parties will not or cannot 8mend so as to
remove that difficulty, the court will go no further, but will
dismiss the bill. It does not and cannot, in the nature of
things, conclude either party upon the merits of the matter
in controversy, and the plaintiffs, or any one of them, should
be at liberty to bring another bill, with proper parties, in
regard to the subject-matter of the first one. And the right
to do this cannot be doubted when it appears plainly that
the first bill was dismissed either for want of necessary parties or for a misjoinder of parties, or when by the terms of
the decree the bill is dismissed without prejudice.t
But neither of these things appear in the present cage.
There are g'ounds stated in the demurrer which would, if
sustained, be a bar to any other suit, to wit, staleness of the
claim, statute of limitations, and long acquiescence in the
possession and claim of title by defendants. It does not
appear by the decree, or by the order sustaining the demurrer, on which of the grpunds set out in the latter it was
509, 544; Mitford's Equity Pleadings, 6th
Story's Equity Pleadings,
American edition, 177, side paging, 154; Pag6 v. Townsend, 5 Simons, 395;
King of.Spain v. Machado, 4 Russell, 225; Ouff v. Platedl, lb. 242; Bill V.
Cureton, 2 Mylne & Keen, 503, 512.
t Story's Equity Pleading, 541.

Oct. 1874.]

JEFFRIES V. LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.

47

Syllabus.

sustained, or on what ground the billw as dismissed. As
the record stands this decree might be pleaded successfully
as a bar to any other bill brought by Eliza House, or by
Mary Hunter, her child, in assertion of her right to this lot,
though we are of opinion that the only defect in the bill is
that it shows no interest in Mary Hunter, while it does show
a good cause for equitable relief on the part of Eliza House.
If the decree had dismissed the bill without prejudice,* or
bad stated as the ground of dismissal the misjoinder of parties, or want of interest in two of them, we would have
affirmed it, but, to prevent what may be a great injustice,
we must reverse the present decree and remand the case,
with directions to allow plaintiffs to amend their bill as they
may be hdvised, and if they fail to do this within a reasonable time, to dismiss it without prejudice.
REVERSAL

AND REMAND ACCORDINGLY.

JEFFRIES V. LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.

Where a policy of life insurance contains the following conditions, to wit:
"This policy is issued by the company, and accepted by the assured, on the
following express conditio and aremens, which are a tPart of the contract of
snsurassee:
"First. That the statements and declaration made in the application for said
policy, and on the faith of which it is issued, are in all respects true, and without
the suppression of any fact relating to the health or circumstances of the insured
affecting tiz interest of the company-"

And the further condition:
-That in ease of the violation of the foregoing condition, . . . this policy

shall become null and void---'
Any answer untrue in fact, and known by the applicant for insurance to
be so, avoids the policy, irrespective of the question of the materiality
of the answer given, to the risk.
Accordingly, where, on a suit against an insurance company, the plea
alleged that the party insured, by his application for a policy, in answer
* Story's Equity Pleading,

641.

