UNITED SIATES V.

SAUNDERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

UNITED STATES V. SAUNDERS.
1 A statute is to be interpreted not only by its exact words, but also by its
apparent general purpose. If its general purpose have plain reference
to one class of persons, it will not include a single individual in a distinct class, though the mere words might include him.
2. The Botanical Garden, at Washington, a long-established public garden,
and regarded by various acts as under the immediate direction and control of the Joint Library Committee of Congress, is a different garden
from the garden established of more recent years by the Department of
Agriculture, an executive department, as an appendage to that department.
3. The eighteenth section of the act of July 28th, 1866, providing an increase of 20 per cent. in pay for several persons employed under the
direction of the two Houses of Congress, or their committees, including
" the three superintendents of the public gardens," and not providing
for the pay of any employed in the executive departments, does not
embrace a Superintendent of the Public Gardens of the Department of
Agriculture. It is confined to the superintendents of the Botanical
Garden.
The Superintendent of the Public Garden of the Department of Agriculture is provided for by a joint resolution of 28th of February, 1867,
which gives an increase in pay for one year to persons employed in the
executive departments.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
On the 28th of July, 1866, Congress enacted: *
"That there be allowed and paid to the officers, clerks, committee clerks, messengers, and all other employgs of the Senate
and House of Representatives, and to the Globe and official reporters of each House, and the stenographer of the House, and
to the Capitol police, and the three superintendents of the public
gardens, their clerks and assistants, and to the Librarian, assistant librarians, messengers, and other employgs of the Congressional Library, an addition of twenty per cent. on their
present pay, to commence with the present Congress."

This act was repealed July 12th, 1870.
By a joint resolution of the 28th of February following, it
was resolvedt* 14 Stat. at Large, 323.

j 14 Stat. at Large, 569.

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V. SAUNDERS.
Statement of the case.

"That there shall be allowed and paid to . . . its civil officers,
clerks, messengers, and watchmen and employ~s in the executive mansion, and in any of the following named Zlepartments,
or any bureau thereof, to wit: State, Treasury, War, Navy, Interior, Post Office, Attorney-General, Agricultural,and including
civil officers and

. . .

clerks and employds in the office of the

coast survey, naval observatory, navy-yard, arsenal, paymastergeneral, &c., &c., an additional compensation of twenty per cent.
on their respective salaries as fixed by law, &c.,

. . .

for one

year."
With these two proceedings of Congress, the act of 1866
and the joint resolution of 1870 in force, one Saunders, who
was engaged at a salary in superintending the public gardens of the Department of Agriculture, at Washington, applied and got an addition of 20 per cent. to it undei the joint
resolution, for the one year, during which the resolution gave
the increase.
Subsequently, assuming that the act of Congress was a
continuing act and not one making an allowance for one
year only, and assuming also that his employment brought him
within its provi'ions, he filed 6, petition in the Court of
Claims, alleging that he was "Superintendent of Gardens
in the Department of Agriculture," from March 4th, 1865,
to July 1st, 1870, and asking the addition of 20 per cent.
given by the act of Congress during that time.
The Court of Claims found as a fact that "he held the
position and performed the duties of Superintendent of the
Public Gardens of the Department of Agriculture," and
during the time for which the 20 per cent. was claimed;
and conceiving that he came within the act, gave him the
addition prayed for.
From this, its decision, the United States appealed.
The only question considered by this court was whether
Saunders was within the act of Congress.
Mr. G. H. Williams, Attorney- General, and Mr. John Go.
forth, for the appellant; Mr. .1. T Denver, contra.

UNITED STATES V.

SAUNDERS.

[Sup. t

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
*We are clearly of opinion that the claimant, in this case,
was not within the intent and meaning of the eighteenth
section of the act of July 28t.h, 1866.
The Court of Claims finds, it is true, that he held the position of superintendent of the public garden of the Agricultural Department during the period for which the claim
is made. But it is well known that the botanical garden
near the Capitol has been regarded as a public garden for
many years, and long before the experimental garden of the
Agricultural Depai:tment was established; and that it was
managed by a superintendent and assistant superintendents.
It is equally well known that this garden has for a long
period, if not always, been under the immediate direction
and control of the Joint Library Committee of Congress.
The public statutes contain a long series of appropriations
for both garden and superintendents. Thus, in the appropriation bill of July 2d, 1864, for the year ending June 80th,
1865,* the following appropriation was made:
"Botanic Garden.-Forgrading, draining, procuring manure,
tools, fuel, and repairs, purchasing trees and shrubs, under the
direction of the Library Committee of Congress, $3300.
"For pay of superintendent of Botanic Garden, and assistants
in the Botanic Garden and green-houses, to be expended under
the direction of the Library Committee of Congress, $6145.80."
A similar provision is made in the appropriation bill for
the year ending June 30th, 1866, adding $2500 to be expended under direction of the Joint Committee of the Library, for erecting four green-houses.t The like appropriation for salaries was made in the appropriation bill for the
year ending June 30th, 1867.t. Then comes the act in question, increasing the salaries 20 per cent., to commence with
that Congress, to wit, March 4th, 1865. The act increases
the salaries of" the three superintendents of the public gardens." Now, in the next appropriation bill, for the year
ending June 30th, 1868, not only is the ordinary appiopria* 13 Stat. at Large, 349.

t] 14 Star. at Large, 21.

$ 1b. 193.

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V.

SAUNDERS.

Opinion of the court.

tion made for the "botanic garden under direction of the
Library Committee of Congress, $3300 ;" and, "for pay of
superintendent and assistants,and assistants in the botanic garden and green-house, under direction of the Library Committee of Congress, $6145.80;" but a continuation of the 20
per centum is added, thus: "for 20 per centum additional on
the pay of the above, $1229.16." The designation, "superintendent and assistants," implies at least three in number.
No such appropriation is found in reference to the experimental garden attached -to the Department of Agriculture.
Whilst the botanic garden, under the direction of the Joint
Library Committee of Congress, with its superintendent
and assistants eo nomine, have thus been the subject of appropriations for a long period, the experimental garden,
established by the Department of Agriculture, was comparatively recent, and regarded as an appendage of that department, and the appropriations therefor had been made
under the general head of appropriations for the said department, and no appropriation for any superintendent
thereof, eo vomine, had ever be-en made up to the time of the
passage of the act of July 28th, 1866. The appropriation
bad been for the "experimental garden," and for the salary
of the foreman and laborers.*
From this legislative history it is apparent that the botanic
garden near the Capitol was regarded as a public garden;
that it had a superintendent and assistant superintendents;
that appropriations had for years been made for their salaries
as superintendent and assistants by name; and that they
were employed, and the garden was managed, under the
immediate direction of the Joint Library Committee of the
two Houses of Congress. They were, in fact, employes of
this committee.
Now, it seems to us that the eighteenth section of the act
of July 28th, 1866, which provides for the addition of the 20
per centum now claimed by the appellee, had reference only
to persons employed under the direction of the two Houses
* See the acts, 13 Stat. at Large, 155; 14 Id. 202.

496

PIATT'S ADMINISTRATOR V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

of Congress, or their committees, and n6t to those of any of

the executive departments. The section itself is its own
best interpreter. In view of the long supervision over the
botanic garden by the Library Committee, and of the previous legislation referred to, language could hardly be
plainer than that which it contains.
But there is additional evidence that this increase of salary
was intended to be confined to persons employed under the
immediate direction of the two Houses of Congress and their
committees, in the fact, that by a joint resolution of February 28th, 1867,* 20 per cent. was added to the salaries of all
employ6s of the several executive departments, including
the Department of Agriculture, for one year from and after
the 30th of June, 1866; and the claimant actually received
such addition accordingly. It is not reasonable to suppose
that Congress intended to single out this particular employ6
from all the government employ6s as alone entitled to a
double addition of 20 per cent. to his compensation, which
he certainly would receive for the year named, if his construction of the act of July 28th, 1866, is the correct one.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the cause remanded with directions to
DISMISS THE PETITION.

PIATT'S ADMINISTRATOR V. UNITED STATES.
Where a contractor has large claims on different accounts against the United
States, and the United States have a counter claim of fixed though of
much less amount against him, and arrest him and put him in jail, and
then by an act passed for his relief direct the accounting officers of the
government to "settle" his accounts on just and equitable principles,
giving all due weight and consideration to certain settlements and allowances already made, and to certain assurances and decisions of one of the
executive departments which the party alleged to have been made to
him, "provided that the sum allowed under the said assurances shall not
exceed the amount claimed by the United States and for which suits have
* 14 Stat. at Large, 569.

