UNITED

STATES V. FARRAGUT.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

interest in the assets and effects of the copartnership to the
bankrupt partner, or that he ceased to be a joint owner of
the same when the estate of the bankrupt partner was
assigned and conveyed to the complainant below as his
assignee.*
Nothing is exhibited in the-record to warrant the conolusion that the copartnership was. ever in fact dissolved before
the decree in bankruptcy against the senior partner, and as
the compromise notes were given in the name of the copartnership, the other partner remained liable for their payment.
DECREE REVERSED

and the cause remanded, with direc-

tions to
DISMISS THE BILL OF COMPLAINT.

UNITED STATES V. FARRAGUT.
Captors (Admiral Farragut and others) having filed a libel in the admiralty
for prizes taken below New Orleans in April, 1862, they and the government agreed to refer the cause to the "final determination and
award" of A., B., and C., "1the award of whom," said the agreement
of reference, "1shall befinal upon all questions of law and fact involved,.
said award to be entered as a rule and decree of court in said case, with
the right also of either party to appeal to the Supreme Court of the
United States, as from other decrees or judgments in7*rize cases."
The arbitrators made an award, finding certain matters wholly or chiefly
of fact and also certain conclusions of law, and their award was, after
exceptions to it, made a decree of the court where the libel was filed.
An appeal was taken to this court.
Held as principles of law applicable to the case:
1. That there was nothing in the nature of the admiralty jurisdiction, or
of an appeal in admiralty, which prevented parties in the court of admiralty, whether sitting in prize or as an instance court, from submitting their case by rule of the court to arbitration.
2. That the award in the present case was to be construed here and its
effect determined by the same general principles which would govern it
in a court of common law or of equity.
3. That notwithstanding the expression in the agreement of submission,
that all questions of law in the case were to be concluded by the award,
Harrison v. Sterry, 5 Cranch, 302.

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V. FARRAGUT.

407

Syllabus.
the agreement was in this respect no more than a submission of all matters involved in the suit.
4. That accordingly where the award found facts, it was conclusive ; where
it found or announced concrete propositions of law, unmixed with
facts, its mistake, if one was made, could have been corrected in the
court below, and could be corrected here; that where a proposition
was one of mixed law and fact, in which the error of law, if there was
any, could not be distinctly shown, the parties must abide by the award.
5. That the award was also liable, like any other award, to be set aside in
the court below, for such reasons as would be sufficient in other courts;
as for exceeding the power conferred by the submission, for manifest
mistake of law, for fraud, and for all other reasons on which awards
are set aside in other courts of law or chancery.
6. Held accordingly further, in application of these principles:
(a) That on a question whether the capture was by the navy alone, or
by the navy conjointly with the army, the finding that it was by the
navy alone, was a finding on a point mainly of fact, and conclusive;
there being no evidence of any misapprehension of law governing the
arbitrators in their decision of it.
(b)That the names of the vessels participating in the capture, and the
value of the property captured were questions of pure fact, and that
the finding was final.
(c) That whether the property was lawful prize of var and subject to
condemnation was the very matter submitted to the arbitrators to be
decided by them; and that their award that it was such lawful prize
and so subject to condemnation, was to be upheld unless it was shown
that in making such award they bad acted upon a manifest mistake
of law.
(d) That where the award found that certain vessels named were, after
capture, given up to their lawful owners, from whom they had been
taken by the enemy, the award was to be taken as stating that these
vessels had been the property of loyal citizens of the United States,
had been seized by the enemy for their own use, and when captured
from the enemy by the libellants had been restored by the military
power in New Orleans to their original owners, and that on this state
of facts the arbitrators held that when captured they were, lawful
prize and liable to condemnation as such in a prize court. But that
there being nothing in the finding of the court nor in the record, nor
anything suggested by counsel in argument, to show that these owners
were not domiciled in the rebel States, and it being reasonably to be
supposed from all that mas known that such was the case, it would,
in favor of the award and decree below, be presumed that the arbitrators had evidence of that fact. Held, therefore, that in holding these
vessels liable to capture and condemnation, and lawful prize of war,
it did not appear under the decision in the Prize Cases (2 Black, 671),
which in their second proposition adjudged that property of persons
domiciled or residing within the enemy's lines was enemy property,

408

UNITED STATES

v.

FAIRRAGUT.

[Sup. Ct.

Historical statement of the case.
and liable to capture as prize of war, without regard to their sentiments of loyalty or disloyalty to the United States government, that
the arbitrators violated any principle of law.
Held, however, that in awarding, as they did, the value of these vessels
to the captors as prize, and in addition forty per cent. of that value
for salvage, the arbitrators violated law and practice.
(e) That where the award found nothing about the return to their
owners of certain other vessels, though there was some evidence (if it
had been proper to go behind the award) to show that they were
so delivered, but none at all as to the character of these owners for
loyalty, this court could not, in the face of the award that they were
lawful prize and subject to condemnation, infer that their owners
were loyal men, even if it could look to the evidence to find that the
vessels were delivered to them. Hfeld, therefore, to be clear that there
was no sufficient evidence to show that the award as to these vessels
was based on any mistake of law.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
On the 22d of January, 1862, the city of New Orleans
being then in the possession of the rebel confedeiracy, and
access to it from the ocean by the troops of the United
States being cut off by the rebel forces in Forts Jackson and
St. Philip, below it; a large armament of mortars was sent
to the mouth of the Mississippi, which the Western Gulf
Squadron of the United States was blockading; and Flagofficer Farragut, afterwards admiral of that name, ordered
to its command. These were his instructions:

"When these formidable mortars arrive, and you are completely ready, you will collect such vessels as can be spared
from the blockade and proceed up the Mississippi River and reduce the defences which guard the approaches to New Orleans,
when you will appear off that city and take possession of it
under the guns of your squadron, and hoist the American flag
therein, keeping possession until troops can be sent to you....
As you have expressed yourself perfectly satisfied with the force
given to you, and as many more powerful vessels will be added
before you can commence operations, the department and the
country will require of you success."

On the 3d of February, 1862, Flag-officer Farragut sailed
from Hampton Roads to assume his command.

By letter

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V. FARRAGUT.

409

Historical statement of the case.

of February 10th, 1862, from the Secretary of the Navy, he
was instructed that"The most important operation of the war is intrusted to
yourself and your brave associates. . . . Eighteen thousand men
are being sent to the gulf to co-operate in the movements,
which will give to the armies of the United States full possession of the ports within the limits of your command. You will,
however, carry out your instructions with regard to the Mississippi and Mobile without any delay, beyond that imposed upon
you by your own careful preparation. A division from Ship
Island will probably be ready to occupy the forts that will fall into
your hands."
A land force of 18,000 men, under Major-General Butler,
destined to co-operate with the navy in the attack on New
Orleans, was dispatched from Fortress Monroe, and entered
the Mississippi about the middle of April, landing on Ship
Island there, and putting itself into relations with Admiral
Farragut.
General Butler, when leaving Fortress Monroe, received
orders by which the army under him was to await the reduction of the enemy's works by the navy, and then, after
their capture, in case a reduction and capture was made, the
army was to put and leave in them a sufficient garrison to
render them secure; but in case the navy failed to reduce
the works, then a co-operative movement by the united
forces-land and naval-was to commence; the army, covered by the navy, to make its approaches and carry them by
assault.
All preparations being made, the fleet commenced the
bombardment of Fort Jackson on the 16th of March, which
bombardment lasted until April 24th, 1862. At half-past
three o'clock on the morning of that day, the fleet, in two
divisions, moved up the river, and, aided by the mortar fleet,
ran past and between Forts St. Philip and Jackson, placed
on the east and west sides of it, under a fire described by
Farragut "such as the world had rarely seen."
After passing the forts the fleet, on the morning of the

UNITED STATES v. FARRAGUT.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

25th, proceeded to New Orleans, attacked the forts immediately around the city for its defence, reduced them, and
demanded the surrender of the city on that day in the name
of the United States.
General Butler iii the meantime, in accordance with an
agreement which he had previously made with Flag-officer
Farragut before the bombardment began, rowing seven
miles to get a good footing, landed 3000 men at the quarantine station (Sable Island). He then threw a body of them
across tfie Mississippi and hemmed in the forts. That night
-the garrison of Fort Jackson mutinied against their officers,
and a majority of them surrendered to the government
pickets; and on the next day the officers also surrendered,
and the government troops were put and left in the forts.
He then followed Flag-officer Farragut up the river, and
with 2000 men took possession of N ew Orleans.
Such at least was one part-the historical proscenium as it
may be called-of the case; though the evidence adduced
in the record of this particular suit, while establishing it,
in the main, may or may not have considerably modified it
as to the degrees in which the army and the navy shared in
the conquest. Whether it did or did not was one of the
questions raised and disputed about -by counsel, and the
reporter states what he has stated chiefly to lead in and
make more intelligible what follows.
The result of the reduction of the forts was the capture
of a large number of vessels, coal, and other property.
All this property was appraised at the time by a board 9f
officers duly appointed for that purpose. But there being
no District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana open
at that time, and much of the property being river steamers
unfit to be sent to sea, and much of it necessarily used by
the army and navy of the United States in their further
operations in the gulf and the river Mississippi, none of it
was sent in to be condemed as prize at the time of the capture.
Congress, accordingly, on the 3d of March, 1869, passed
an act with the following title and enactment:

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V. FARRAGUT.

411

Statement of the case.

"An Act relatingto captures made by Admiral Farragut'sfleet in
the Alississippi River in May, 1862.*
"Be it enacted, &c., That the vessels attached to or connected
with Admiral Farragut's fleet in the river Mississippi, which
participated in the opening of that river, and which resulted in
the capture of New Orleans in the month of May, 1862, and
which by law would have been entitled to prize-money in the
captures made by said vessels, shall be now entitled to the benefits of the prize laws in the same manner as they would have been
bad the District Court for the Eastern District of Louisia'na been
then open, and the captures made by said vessels had been
libelled therein; and any court of the United States having admiralty jurisdiction may take and have cognizance of all cases
arising out of said captures, and the same proceedings shall be
had therein as in other cases of prize.
"SEcTIoN 2. And be it further enacted, That the shares in such
captures awarded to the officers and men entitled to prize shall
be paid out of the Treasury of the United States."
In pursuance of this statute Admiral Farragut, on behalf
of himself and the officers and crews of his fleet, filed his

libel in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, on
the 26th April, 1869, against thirty-six sailing vessels of different kinds, or steamers, including the ships Metropolis,
Farwell, Milan, the barkantine Ocean Eagle, the bark
George Alban, and the steamer Sallie :Robinson, of the aggregate value, as alleged, of $116,500.
Five steamers, to wit, the Diana, the Ceres, the Tennessee, the McRae, and the Iberville, valued, as alleged, at
$613,520.
[The steamer McRae (of the value as alleged of $96,000),
the libel averred had been "sent up with paroled prisoners
to iew Orleans, but not being properly cared for by the
Confederate officers having her in charge, was sunk."]
Five Confederate vessels, then in process of construction.
The following steamers, St. Charles, Time and Tide,
Louisiana Belle, Empire Parish, St. Maurice, and Morning
* 15 Stat. at Large, 336.

UNITED

STATES

v.

FARRAGUT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Light, appraised in the aggregate at $64,000, and which
steamers, among others, the libel alleged belonged to the
Confederate authorities or citizens of the Confederate States,
and after being captured were delivered over to the United
States, and used by them in transporting their forces, munitions of war, &c.
Sixteen thousand tons of coal worth $20 a ton.
The libel alleged the capture by Farragut's fleet, jure belli,
of all these thirty-six vessels, as also of the coal; and setting
forth their value, prayed a monition, and that all might be
held to be prize of war, and that a decree might be passed
directing their value to be distributed among the officers and
crews of the Western Gulf Squadron, as to law and justice
might appertain.
The Treasury Department'having informed the District
Attorney of the United States at Washington, that it was
very questionable whether the captures mentioned in the
libel were prize of war, and that it was desired to have this
question, besides questions of fact arising in the cases, fully
and fairly tried, directed him to take such steps as upon
consultation with a gentleman named (Mr. Corwine), who
had been retained as special counsel of the government, it
might be deemed necessary to take to protect the interests
of the government. So far as the reporter could gather
things from a confused record, one ground of the question
suggested by the Treasury Department, whether the vessels libelled were prize of war, jure belli, was an idea that
the captures had been made in a greater or less degree by
the aid of the army; it was also of the impression that in
asking for so large a sum of prize-money as it did, the libellants were disregarding the statutory rule which gave them
so large a sum only when the capturing force was inferior
to that opposing it.
However, whatever was the ground of its action, the
United States, both by the attorney for the District of Columbia and by special counsel employed in the case, appeared and defended the suit, and such proceedings were
had that by a written agreement between the United States

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED

STATES v. FARRAGUT.

Statement of the case.

on one side, and the libellant on the other, the whole controversy was submitted to three arbitrators, whose award,
or that of a major part of them, should by rule of the court
be entered as its decree. It was signed by the counsel for
Farragut, by the special counsel of the United States, the
Attorney-General, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the
Secretary of the Navy.
This agreement, after reciting the pendency of the suit
which we have just mentioned, and another by the same
libellaut against the United States, which was not found in
th~e record, but is supposed to have related to the same subject-matter, proceeds as follows:
"Now, for the more speedy and economical adjustment of said
controversies, it is agreed between the libellants and the United
States that these causes shall be referred to the final determination and award of Henry W. Paine, Esq., of Boston, and Thomas
J. Durant, Esq., of Washington, and Gustavus V. Fox, Esq.,
late Assistant Secretary of the Navy, mutually chosen on the
part of the libellants and the United States, the award of whom,
or the greaterpart of whom, shall be final upon all questions of law
and fact involved in these causes; said award to be entered as a
rule and decree of court in said cases in said Supreme Court,
with due right of either party to take evidence, as in other like
cases, within thirty days from this date; and with the right also
of either party to appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States
as from other decrees or judgments in prize cases."
In due time the arbitrators made their unanimous award,
the substance of which is as follows:
1. That the capture was not a conjoint operation of the
army and navy of the United States.
2. That forty-two vessels, whose names were given, participated in the capture.
3. That twenty-nine vessels, whose names were also given,
and which included the vessels already mentioned by name,
were captured, and also five vessels of war in process of coustruction on the docks in the Mississippi River, and sixteen
thousand tons of coal.
4. That the value of each of these vessels separately, and

UNITED

STATES

v.

FARRAGUT.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

of the coal and unfinished vessels was such and such a sum,
which the award specified, the aggregate being $966,120.
5. That all this property was lawful prize of war, and lawfully subject to condemnation as such.
6. That in the engagement which resulted in the capture
of those ships, the entire force of the enemy was superior to
the force of the United States ships and vessels so engaged.
9. That of the above-mentioned captured vessels, the
McRae was wholly lost and destroyed, having been used as
a cartel by the United States, and sunk in the river opposite
New Orleans, within four days after her capture.
10. That the ships Metropolis, Farwell, and Milan, the
barkantine Ocean Eagle, the bark George Alban, and the
steamer Sallie Robinson, whose aggregate value was $116,500, were, after capture, given up to the legal owners, from
whom they had been taken by the enemy.
The award allowed the captors the value of these vessels,
and $46,600 for military salvage due thereon, and closed by
giving to the libellants the whole value of all these vessels,
$966,120, and the $46,600 salvage just mentioned.
The award, it will be noted, said nothing about any other
vessels than those mentioned in the tenth paragraph having
been given up to the owners of them, though there was
some evidence in the record which tended to prove the bare
fact that the Steamers St. Charles, Time and Tide, Louisiana Belle, Empire Parish, St. Maurice, and Morning Light
had been given up to their owners; but who the owners
were, where they resided, or anything else about them did
not appear in the said evidence.
This award having come into the court below, it was excepted to by the United States, and a motion soon made to
set it aside; the following being the grounds of the exception and motion:
"1st. That the finding that the capture was not a conjoint
operation of the army and navy of the United States, is not
warranted by the law and the facts, but is expressly contrary
to the law and the facts.
"2d. That the finding of the value of the vessels alleged to

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V. FARRAGUT.
Statement of the case.

have been captured, is without warrant of law, and wholly unsupported by evidence.
"3d. That the finding that the property alleged to have been
captured was 'lawful prize of war, and lawful subject of condemnation as such,' is erroneous and wholly unsupported by the
law and facts.
"4th. That the finding that the force of the enemy was superior to the forces of the United States ships and vessels engaged
in the alleged capture, is erroneois and wholly at variance with
and unsupported by the law and the facts.
"5th. That the finding that the steamer McRae was lost after
that she was alleged to have been captured, and while she was
being used as cartel by the United States, is erroneous and not
supported by the law and the facts. The dvidence shows that
the McRae belonged to the United States prior to her use and
when she was used by the rebels, and that she was recaptured
from them by the naval forces of the United States on the occasion referred to in the award, and that she was not prize of war.
At most it was but a recapture.
"6th. That it is erroneous, and not warranted by law, to
allow military salvage, as against the United States, for the
alleged recapture of the vessels set out in paragraph ten of the
award. Such property was not recaptured by the libellant and
those he represents."
The court refused to set the award aside, and on the contrary made it the decree of the court. From that decree
the United States took this appeal.
After the case came into this court the Attorney-General
dismissed the appeal as to the sixteen thousand tons of coal,
the five vessels of war in process of construction, and five
other vessels, namely, the Diana, the Ceres, the Tennessee,
the MeiRae, and the Iberville, covering $613,520 of the decree, and this sum has been distributed among the captors.
The record, as it cmeui to this court, was a very confused
one. It was composed, a considerable part of it, of evidence in the cause; some of it received by stipulation, some
of it documentary, and more-the most of it, indeed-by
depositions. Whether any part of this was before the arbitrators, or what part of it, or what other. testimony, if any,

UNITED STATES

v.

FARRAGUT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the United States.

was before them, the confused state of the document rendered it impossible for any one to know.
Mr. G. H. Williams, Attorney- General, and Mr. B. M. Corwint., special counsel, for the United 8ates.
The first question is, What is brought up by the appeal?
The "appeal," reserved by the agreement to refer, is from
the judgment or decree of the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia.
The award was of no avail until it was entered as a rule
or decree of that court, and from that rule (i. e., judgment)
or decree the appeal might be taken.
Such appeal is to be as from other decrees or judgments
in prize cases.
Now, in decrees in prize cases all pleadings, together with
the report of the arbitrators, go up with the appeal,* and
the proceedings in all respects are governed by the Rules of
Practice in Admiralty.
By Rule 44, in admiralty, power is given the court to
refer any matter in dispute to one or more commissioners;
and such commissioners shall have and possess all the poxvers of masters in chancery. So that, if the parties had not
agreed, the court might have referred the cause to arbitrators. But here the parties did agree, and the court adopted
the selection of arbitrators, and their form of submission,
and referred the cause.
The 44th Rule, as we have said, confers upon commissioners the powers of masters in chancery, and the rule, as laid"
down in 2d Daniell's Chancery Practice,t is that the master
must report all the evidence for the inspection of the court.
'Evidence improperly rejected by the master may be examined in court.1
Such an appeal as was here made from the decree below,
brings then the case here to be tried de novo, without reference to the proceedings of the arbitrators, and, in fact, as if
See Rule 52 of the Supreme Court of the United States in Admiralty.
$ Fuller v. Wheelock, 10 Pickering, 135.

t Page 1498.

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V. FARRAGUT.

417

Argument for the United States.

no reference had been made. The decree was vacated by
the appeal.
[The learned counsel then, on an assumption that all
questions of fact were open to examination at this bar, went
into an examination of the evidence; inferring, on such examination, that in several particulars of fact-including the

degree in which the army shared in the conquest-the conclusions of the arbitrators were not well made, and that
really, on a perfectly true view of the case, nothing was due
to the libellants at all.]
Reverting, however, in a larger degree to matters of law,
and admitting, for argument's sake,'that the evidence cannot
be gone into:

The decree of the court below finds that the ships Metropolis, Milan, Farwell, the barkantine Ocean Eagle, the bark
George Alban, and the steamer Sallie Robinson, were, after
capture, "given up to the loyal owners from whom they
had been taken by the enemy."
Upon these facts, the existence of the 7ight of postliminy in
the said owners at the time of the recapture of their property by our forces may fairly be assumed.
That right entitled the owners to a restoration of their
property by the captors; while, on the other hand, the captors became entitled to military salvage, for which they had
a lien upon the property, but that was the only interest they.
had in it.
The claim of the captors for military salvage'might have
been enforced by proceedings in personam as well as in rem;
and this shows that the liability therefor, so far as it constituted a personal charge, rested upon the owners. The captors could certainly have no ground for asserting a claim
against the government on account of salvage, unless, perhaps, the property or its proceeds had been appropriated by
the government after the capture, which was not the case.
And the proceeding in the court below being virlually but
the prosecution of a claim against the government, the
allowance of military salvage to the promoters of that proceeding, in respect of the property referred to, was improper.
VOL. XXTI.

27

UTNITED STATES V. FARRAGUT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the United States.

It appears also, from the record, that the steamers St
,Charles, Time and Tide, Louisiana Belle, Empire Parish,
St. Maurice, and Morning Light, were restored to their
owners. The presumnption is, though there may be no specific evidence to that effect, that the restoration of this property was due to the fact that the owners thereof were loyal
to and under the protection of the government. If o, then
the right of postliminy existed in their favor, and the only
interest the captors really bad in the property was a salvage
right, which, for reasons already stated, cannot be made the
subject of claim against the government in this proceeding.
The allowance made by the court below, in respect of this
property, should therefore be wholly excluded.
It is accordingly submitted that, at the very least the decree of the court below ought to be modified in the follow
ing particulars:
1. The amount allowed by the court as the value of the ships Metropolis, Farwell, Milan, the barkantine Ocean Eagle, the
bark George Alban, and the steamer Sallie Robinson, should
.
$116,500
be stricken out,
2. The amount allowed by the court as military salvage on the
.
46,600
same vessels should also be stricken out,
3. The amount allowed by the court as the value of the steamers
St. Charles, Time and Tide, Louisiana Belle, Empire Parish,
64,600
St. Maurice, and Morning Light, should also be stricken out,
Amounting in the aggregate to

$227,700

Mr. -B. F -Butler,for Admiral Farragutand his offlcers and
men ; Mr. Hubley Ashton, for Admirql Porter; Mr. Nathaniel
Wilson, for Bear-Admiral -Bailey,contended that under the
terms of the submission which made the award of the arbitrators final, not only on questions of fact but on "questions
of law" also, it was doubtful if anything at all could be considered in'this court; that certainly the ordinary rule which
made -such an award conclusive as to matter of fact, prevented a consideration of the case de noro as on appeals in
admiralty.
The. learned counsel, however, examined the evidence
fully, seeking to show that on it, as in matter of law, the
award was perfectly just.

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES

v.

FARRAGUT.

419

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The first and most important question arising in the argument of the case before us, respects the validity of the award
and its effect in limiting the field of investigation of this
court on appeal.
On the one band it is maintained that the provision which
gives to either party the right to appeal to this court, as from
other decrees or judgments in prize cases, in effect nullifies
the award here and opens the entire case upon all the pleadings and evidence in the record as though no award had
been made. On the other, it is argued that the clause which
declares the award final upon all questions of law and fact
involved in the cause, forbids any inquiry here into any
question of law or fact passed on by the arbitrators.
As regards the first proposition, it is unreasonable to suppose that parties to a suit in court, referring the whole subject to arbitrators with an agreement that the award shall
be final and become the decree of the court, intended to
leave the whole case open after the award as though none
had been made.
The provision for an appeal to this court was undoubtedly
to negative the possible inference that such appeal was forbidden by the clause making the award final in all questions
of law and of fact arising in this case.
It is to be observed that the appeal is not and could not
be from the award, but from the decree of the court below.
That court would deal with the award in the same manner
that awards in other courts could be dealt with.
There is nothing in the nature of the admiralty jurisdiction, or of an appeal in admiralty, as counsel seem to suppose, which would prevent parties in that court, whether
sitting in prize or as an instance court, from submitting
their case by rule of the court to arbitration, or which varies
the effect to be given to such award from that to be given
to it in any other court, either in the court below or on
appeal. This award is to be construed here and its effect
determined by the same general principles which would
govern it in a court of common law or of equity.

420

UNITED

STATES

v.

FARRAGUT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Nor do we conceive, notwithstanding the expression in
the agreement of submission, that all questions of law in the
case are concluded by the award. In this respect it is no
more than a submission of all matters involved in the suit.
Where the award finds facts it is conclusive, w.here it finds
or announces concrete propositions of law, unmixed with
facts, its mistake, if one is made, could have been corrected
in the court below, and -can be corrected here. Where a
proposition is one of mixed law and fact, in which the error
of law, if there be one, cannot be distinctly shown, the parties must abide by the award.
The award was also liable, like any other award, to be set
aside in the court below, for such reasons as are sufficient
in other courts. For exceeding the power conferred by the
submission, for mnqifest mistake of law, for fraud, and for
all the reasons on which awards are set aside in courts of
law or chancery. A motion was made in that court to set
aside the award on the following grounds:
1st. The finding that the capture was not a conjoint operation of the army and navy of the United States is not varranted by the law and the facts, but is expressly contrary to
the law and the facts.
2d. The finding of the value of the vessels alleged to have
been captured is without warrant of law and wholly unsupported by evidence.
3d. The finding that the property alleged to have been
captured was "lawful prize of war, and lawful subject of
condemnation as such,. is erroneous and wholly unsupported
by the law and fhcts.
4th. The finding that the force of the enemy was superior
to the rorces of the United States ships and vessels engaged
in the alleged capture, is erroneous and wholly at variance
with and unsupported by the law and the facts.
5th. The finding that the steamer McRea was lost after
that she was alleged to have been captured, and while she
was being used as cartel by the United States, is erroneous
and not supported by the law and the facts. The evidence
shows that the McRea belonged to the United States prior

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V. FARRAGUT.
Opinion of the court.

to her use and when she was used by the rebels, and that
she was recaptured from them by the naval forces of the
United States on the occasion referred to in the award, and
that she was not prize of war. At most it was but a recapture.
6th. It is erroneous, and not warranted by law, to allow
military salvage, as against the United States, for the alleged
recapture of the vessels set out in paragraph No. 10 of the
award. Such property was not recaptured by the libellant
and those he represents.
A glance at these grounds will show that all of them, except the last, is an attempt to reopen the questions submitted
to the arbitrators, because they had decided erroneously
questions of pure fact, or of law and fact, in which the forrmer was so mingled with the latter as to be inseparable.
Applying these principles to the case before us, we think
we are bound by the first statement of the award, that the
capture was not a conjoint operation of the army and navy.
There is no evidence here of any misapprehension of the
law governing that question, and it must obviously have
been one mainly of fact, and the award is, therefore, conclusive.
So also the names of the vessels participating in the capture, of the vessels and other property captured, and the
value of that property, are all questions exclusively of fhct
which the arbitrators had a right to find, were bound to
find, and the finding is a finality. The finding that all this
property was lawful prize of war and subject to condemnation as such, was the very thing submitted to them for their
decision, and unless it can be shown that in making this
award they have acted upon a manifest mistake of law, the
award must be upheld. Does this appear? Having found
the capture, the property captured, the names and character
of the vessels engaged in it, and the nature of the capture,
the only other question open was the character of the captured property.
Was it liable to capture as prize for any of the reasons
which make property liable to the law of prize? Was it

UNITED STATES V. FARRAGUT.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

contraband of war? Had it been engaged in violating or
attempting to violate a blockade? Was it enemy property?
If it was captured with any or all of these characteristics it
was lawful prize, and subject to condemnation, and wh3ther
it was or not was clearly matter to be decided by the arbitrators, and unless they violated some principle of law in
deciding it, which this court can see, the award must be
confirmed.
The Attorney-General insists that it sufficiently appears
from the record that the ships Metropolis, Farwell, Milan,
the barkantine Ocean Eagle, the bark George Alban, and
the steamer Sallie Robinson, of the value of $116,500;
and the steamers St. Charles, Time and Tide, Louisiana
Belle, Empire Parish, St. Maurice; and Morning Light, of
the value of $64,000, were not lawful prize or subjects of
condemnation. The foundation of the argument is that
these vessels were owned by loyal citizens, and were on that
account delivered up to their owners by the military authorities after their capture. As regards the six vessels last
named, the award is totally silent as to their being delivered
to the owners, or as to the loyalty of those owners.
There is some evidence in the record, if we could go behind the award, to show that they were delivered to their
owners, but none whatever as to the character of these owners for loyalty. We cannot, in the face of the award that
they were lawful prize and subject to condemnation, infer
that their owners were loyal men, if we could look to the
evidence to find that the vessels were delivered to them.
It is, therefore, clear that there 'is no sufficient evidence
to show that the award as to these vessels was based on any
mistake of law.
The six vessels first named stand on a different ground.
As to them, the tenth finding of the award is, that they
"were after capture given up to their lawful loyal owners,
from whom they had been taken by the enemy."
On this point we understand the award as stating that
these vessels had been the property of loyal citizens of the
United States, had been seized by the enemy for their own

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V. FARRAGUT.
Opinion of the court.

use, and when captured from the enemy by the libellants
had been restored by the military power in 1New Orleans to
their original owners, and that on this state of facts the arbitrators hold that when captured they were lawful prize
and liable to condemnation as such in a prize court. Unless
the fact that the original owners were loyal to the government of the United States is of itself sufficient to exempt
these vessels from the law of prize, the award of th6 court
must be sustained. If the owners resided on that side of
the line of bayonets spoken of in the -Prize Cases* which
adhered to the Union, then they were not liable to condemnation as prize, for their owners could have interposed a
claim in the prize court, and on payment of salvage their
property would have been restored to them. But if their
owners resided on the other side of that line, were themselves citizens of and domiciled in States declared by the
President's proclamation to be in insurrection, then their
property captured in naval warfare was lawful prize, and
subject to condemnation. The loyalty of the owners made
no difference in this regard. This whole subject was exhaustively examined in the Prize Cases, and the second proposition established by the opinion, commencing at page 671,
2 Black, is that property of persons domiciled or residing
within the enemy's lines was enemy property, and liable to
capture as prize of war, without regard to their sentiments
of loyalty or disloyalty to the United States government.
This was sustained on the ground that all such property,
being capable of use in aid of the enemy, was liable to capture for the purpose of crippling his resources. And one
vessel and some personal property was condemned as prize
in that case, because owned by citizens of Richmond, though
no disloyal acts were charged or proved against them.
This rule was acted on by this court in all cases which
came within it (and -there were several) growing out. of the
same civil war. The rule is vindicated by the fact that these
very vessels were seized and were in use by the public forces
* 2 Black, 674.

Fox v.

SEAL.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

of the enemy at the time they were captured, and their capture was a deadly blow at their power to carry on the war.
There is nothing in the finding of the court, nor in the
record, nor is it suggested by counsel in argument, to show
that these owners were not domiciled in the rebel States.
It would be reasonably supposed from all that is known,
that such was the case; and in favor of the award and decree
below it will be presumed that the arbitrators had evidence
of that fact.
It does not appear, therefore, that in holding these vessels
liable to capture and condemnation, and lawful prize of war,
the arbitrators violated any principle of law.
But it is quite clear that in awarding the value of these
vessels to the captors as prize, and in addition forty per
cent. of that value for salvage, they did violate law and
justice.
This is too apparent to need argument, and is seen on the
face of the award; and the decree of the Supreme Court of
the District as to the $46,600 awarded as salvage is REVERSED,
and in all other particulars it is affirmed, and the case is
REMANDED

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,

with directions to reform its decree in this particular, and
for such further proceeding as may be necessary, in conformity with this opinion.
REVERSED AND

Fox V.

REMANDED ACCORDINGLY.

SEAL.

1. Under the joint resolution of the legislature of Pennsylvania, passed
January 21st, 1843, and which declares that "it shall not be lawful for
any company incorporated by the laws of the Commonwealth and empowered
to construct any railroad, canal, or other public internal improvement, while
the debts thereof, incurred by the said company to contractors, laborers, and
workmen employed in the construction or repair of said improvements remain
unpaid, to execute a general or partial mortgage, or other transfer of the real
or personal estate of the said company, so a to defeat, postpone, endanger, or

