Dec. 1864.]

KUTTER

V.

SMITH.

491

Syllabus.

protection of General Butler's proclamation of the 1st of
May following; and, also, to the effect of that capture upon
the status and property of the inhabitants of the captured
city.*

The view I have taken of the proofs in the case, do not
involve these questions.
Ashby left the city of New Orleans in this vessel soon
after the breaking out of the war, and before the establishment of the blockade, and has never returned to it. During
all this time and down to the seizure of the vessel, 26th of
May, 1862, he has been in command of it, and engaged in
the Gulf trade; and the greater portion of the time with the
rebel territory. In answer to the first interrogatory, in preparatorio,he says, "that he was born in New York; he now
lives in Louisiana, and owes allegiance to Louisiana and the
Confederate States; is not a citizen of the United States."
In answer to the fourth interrogatory, under an order allowing further proofs, he says that he left New Orleans with
the vessel anticipating a blockade, that she might not become useless property, and that he did not expect to communicate with that city while the blockade continued. The
proofs, as we have seen, show how he has been engaged
during all this period.
On the above ground, I agree that the vessel was properly
condemned in the court below, as enemy's property; and,
also, the cargo, which the court have adjudged belonged to
him.
D
DECREE A IBLE.

KUTTER v. SMITH.
1. The law imposes no obligations on a landlord to pay the tenant for buildings erected on demised premises. The innovation on the common law
rule that all buildings become part of the freehold, has extended no
farther than the right of removal while the tenant is in possession.
See aupra, p. 268 The Venice; also, The Baigorry; preceding case.-

KTUTTER V. SMITH.

ESup. Ot

Statement of the case.
2. Where a lease binds a landlord to pay his tenant, on the efflux of the term,
for buildings erected by the tenant, or to grant him a renewal, the
landlord is not bound to pay when the lease has been determined by
non-payment of rent before such efflux, and by forfeiture and entry accord.
ingly.
8. This is true, even though by the terms of the lease the repossession by
the landlord is to be "as in hisfirst andformer estate;" and though the
erections were not on the ground at the date of the lease.

demised, on the 1st of May, 1857, to Sherman, a
lot in Chicago, for twelve years from that date. The lessee
covenanted to pay all the taxes and assessments levied on
the premises during the term.
It was provided that, in case of a failure by the lessee
to pay the rent when due, the lessor, his heirs or assigns,
should have the right to enter into thte demised premises,
with or without process of law, and expel the lessee or any
persons occupying them, "and the said premises again to
repossess and enjoy, as in hisfirst and former estate;" and the
lessee covenanted that, if the term should at any time, at the
election of the lessor, or his assigns, he ended, he, and all
those occupying the premises under him, would immediately
and peaceably surrender the possession of the premises to
the lessor or his assigns. Sherman contemplated making
an erection upon the premises, which it was agreed he might
do; and the lease contained the following covenant:
LINK

"It is agreed upon, by and between the parties, that at the
expiration of ten years from the first day of May, one thousand
eight hundred and fifty-nine, it shall be at the election of the
first party either to purchase the buildings erected on said
leased premises at the appraised value at that time, or renew
the lease of the said demised premises for the term of ten years
longer, and the value of the buildings as well as the value of the
rent of the said demised premises, to be appraised by three disinterested persons, who are to decide the value of the buildings,
as well as the value of the rent of the above-mentioned premises,
as the case may be. And it is further agreed upon, by and between the parties, that at the expiration of each and every ten
years fs'om May first, one thousand eight hundred and sixtynine, for and during the term of ninety-nine years from the date

Dec. 1864.]

KUTTER V.

SMITH.

Statement of the case.

of this indenture, that the party of the first part is either tG
renew the lease or purchase the buildings as above stipulated."
The lessee did erect a brick structure or storehouse on the
premises, valued at $2500 to $4000.
The rights of the lessee, Sherman, became afterwards
vested in one Kutter, and those of Link, the lessor, in a certain Smith.
On the 1st of May, 1862, Smith, as assignee of Link, went
upon the premises, and demanded the rent due that day on
the lease, which was not paid, and the next day he gave
notice that he had elected to forfeit the lease for non-payment
of rent, due May 1, 1862.
In July, 1862, Kutter (assignee of Sherman) notified to
the defendant that, owing to the forfeiture of the lease from
Link to Sherman, for non-payment of rent, he (Kutter) was
entitled to have the brick building on the demised premises
appraised under the terms of the lease, and the value of it
paid to him. Smith refusing to join in any effort to have it
appraised, this suit, an action on the case, was brought in the
Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois.
The declaration set out the lease by Link to Sherman;
the subsequent vesting of the lessor's title in the defendant,
Smith, and of the lessee's in the plaintiff, Kutter; and that
the defendant had declared the lease forfeited, and taken
possession of the demised premises, and refused to join the
plaintiff in having an appraisement of the building standing
on said premises, and also neglected and refused to pay
plaintiff the value of that building; whereby he became
liable to plaintiff for its value, and this action was brought
to recover it.
On the trial, the court instructed the jury as follows:
"By the terms of the lease from Link to Sherman, it seemed
to be contemplated that the lessee should have power to put
improvements upon the land which might remain there on the
1st of May, 1869 ('ten years from the 1st day of May, 1859'),
and it was by the terms of the lease then left optional with the
lessor to purchase the buildings erected on the land at the ap-

494

RIUTTEI V. SMITH.

[Sup. (t.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

praised value, or renew the lease for ten years longer; but up
to that time, that is to say, till May, 1869, the clause of forfeiture
for the non-payment of rent was nevertheless in force and binding on the lessee; and notwithstanding improvements.may have
been in the mean time put upon the land, if the lessee did not
pay the rent aceording to the terms of the lease, it was competent for the lessor to declare ' the term' ended, and to re-enter,
and in case of a determination of the lease in that way prior to
the time fixed (viz., May 1st, 1869), no provision seemed to be
made by the lease for the payment by the lessor of any improvements put by the lessee upon the land; and in the case supposed,
in the absence of such provision, the lessee could not recover
for the improvements; and the plaintiff can be in no better position than Sherman. Consequently, if,
on the 1st day of May,
1862, there was rent due and in arrear, unpaid, after demand
made for the payment thereof; and the lessor or his assigns
exercised the option given by the lease, and declared ' the term'
ended, and re-entered and took possession of the premises, of
which the lessee and his assignee had due notice, then the plaintiff cannot recover against the defendant in this action the value
of the improvements made by Sherman or his assignee."
Verdict and judgment went accordingly; and the plaintiff, Kutter, took a writ of error to reverse the judgment.
Mr. E. S. Smith, for Kutter, plaintiff in error.
The court below-we may remark in the outset-treated
the case as if it had been an action of covenant,-a suit to
enforce, as against defendant Smith, the provisions of the lease
upon the covenants on the part of Link, as to the purchase of
the building at the end of the term. This was a mistake.
The law, which, in an action of covenant, would have governed the case, has no direct application here, except as to
the construction of the provisions of the lease, and the rights
of the parties as they stood at the time of the suit. The
action is an action on the case; an action, that is to say, on
the special facts of this case; a form of action whien in the
plastic hands of the pleader becomes pliant, and takes a form
as various as the business of men.

Dec. 1864.]

8KUTTER

V. SMITH.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Now, here the owner of the soil has got possession of and
is enjoying a house built by us; he has come into the use
of buildings erected by our money and labor. We set forth
those circumstances; make, in other words, an action on
the case, and show that, ex &,quo et bono, the defendant
should pay us for that which of our money and labor he is
enjoying and chooses to enjoy. The law is well settled, that
a lessor cannot take buildings and fixtures placed on a
lot by express agreement that he place them there; and
that the lessee has the right to remove those buildings,
whether it be at the end of the term, or on declaration of
forfeiture by the lessor, at the expiration of the lease. Time
is given by law for the removal of such fixtures, and any
interposition, on the part of the lessor, to prevent the removal, is, in law, a conversion and an injury resulting from
the act of the lessor, for which he must respond in damages.
Since the great case of .Elwes v. Miawes, given in Smith's
Leading Cases,* the rigor of the common law has been
greatly relaxed, both in this country and in England, and
courts of law have adopted the principle, that it is for the
benefit of the public to encourage tenants to make improvements in trade, and to do what is advantageous for the
estate during the term, with the certainty of their still being
benefited by it at the end of the term. We hold that the
rule is the same, and that it applies, whether the tenancy be
for years or at will. It matters not whether the building is
erected upon blocks or upon stone masonry; whether of
wood, stone, or brick. It is the property of the tenant, and
he has the right to remove it at the end of the term, and the
landlord cannot interfere unless the tenant damages the
freehold. Tlie rule is founded upon a high principle of justice and right, and in this country, especially, should be
maintained as tending everywhere to improvements.
This general principle has been applied, as the court
knows, in a case where vats had been put up for the convenience of the trade of the tenant; also, in a case of a mill
* 2 Smith, 228, 6th ed., reported from 8 East, 88.

]KUTTER V. SMITH.

S
[Sup.
Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

and furnace, steam engines, and copper stills, erected to carry
on distilling, though fixed to the building; also, in a case
where a building had been erected on the demised premises
for the purposes of trade, and placed upon a foundation of
brick masonry in the ground; also, in a case where a building had been erected upon stone posts set in the ground.
Many other cases, equally decisive of the question, can be
found in the books, even in the old ones.*
Concede that Smith became owner of the lot originally
vested in Link, he holds it quatenus et quodam modo; he holds
in subjection to the lease which Link had previously made.
However viewed, the question comes to this: "Does the
lease provide, under any state of the case, or position of tho
parties, and for any cause, that Link, or any one, may at any
time take the property in the building without paying for
it?" We answer that it does not, in any way or manner, so
provide, nor does the lease in any one sentence so intimate.
How, then, can counsel justify the high-handed act of the
defendant in forcibly taking and holding the building?
It will be observed that, by the express words of the contract, the right to re-enter and to declare the term ended for
non-payment of rent at the time due, only gives the right
to repossess Link's "first and fomner estate." It does not give
the right to take anything but the land. This is an important
consideration, and one which should interpret and settle the
rights of the parties. If, therefore, the defendant preferred
to re-enter in the name of Link, or to take possession of
the property under the covenant, instead of trusting t(
the chances to collect the rent, then, if he did so, he was
obliged to let the owner take off the buildings, and leave the
property as it was, so that the defendant could enjoy it as in
Link's first and former estate; that being all the lease gave,
or which any one claiming under it could enjoy.
M '. Fuller, contra.
* Beck v. Rebow, 1 Peere Williams, 94; Lawton v. Lawton, 3 Atkyns,
13 ; Poole's Case, I Salkeld, 368; Van Ness v. Packan, 2 Peters, 137: Union
Bank v. Emerson, 15 Massachusetts, 159; Holmes v. Tremper, 20 Johnson, 29.

Dec. 1864.]

KUTTER V. SMITH.
Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
'If we correctly understand plaintiff's counsel, one of the
positions assumed by him in argument is, that the fact that
under these circumstances defendant comes into the use and
possession of the building, erected by the labor and money
of plaintiff's assignor, entitles plaintiff to recover the value
of that building, without aid from the contract on that subject in the lease, which we will consider hereafter. The
authorities cited to support this position relate to the class of
cases in which tenants have been permitted to remove fixtures fiom the premises which they have placed there during
the tenancy.
Without elaborating the argument, it may be remarked
that none of these authorities are applicable, for two reasons
1. The character of the building, in the present case, does
not bring it within any of the principles upon which certain
erections have been held removable as fixtures.
2. The doctrine concerning this class of fixtures, which is
a strong innovation upon the common law rule that all buildings become a part of the freehold as soon as they are placed
upon the soil, has extended no further than the right of removal while the tenant is in possession; and has never been
held to give a right of action against the landlord for their
value.
We can very well understand that if defendant wrongfully
entered upon the building, and retains wrongful possession
of it, he may be liable to plaintiff in action of trespass quare
clausumfregit. But, as we understand the facts, there is no
such wrongful entry; and plaintiff bases his right to recover
upon a very different view of the matter.
There was in the contract of lease between Link and
Sherman a covenant that, at the expiration of ten years from
the first day of May, 1869, it should be at the election of the
lessor to purchase the buildings erected on the leased premises at their appraised value at that time, or renew the
lease of said premises for the term of ten years longer, at a
rent to be appraised in like manner; and this election, on
the part of the lessor, was to be. exercised at the expiratioy,
VOL. II.

32

] UTTrnl v.

SmiTmi.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

of every ten years for the period of ninety-nine years. The
plaintiff now contends,-because the defendant terminated
the lease before the first ten years had expired, by virtue of
a clause authorizing the lessor to do so for non-payment of
debt,-that, therefore, defendant became liable to pay him
the appraised value of the building. He accordingly gave
a notice of his claim, and of his readiness to join in appointing appraisers, and then brought this suit.
It will be observed that while the right thus claimed is
one growing out of the contract, and, as would reasonably
be supposed, is for the failure to perform some obligation
which that contract imposed, the action is neither covenant
nor assumpsit, nor any other form of action founded on contract, but is an action on the case. And the counsel who
framed the declaration objects in this court, "that the court
below treated the case as one in an action of covenant, to enforce as against defendant Smith, the provision of the lease,
upon the covenant on the part of Link as to the purchase of
the building at the end of the term."
One obvious reason why plaintiff does not wish to be considered as suing on the contract is, the difficulty of holding
that the covenant to purchase is one which runs with the
land, or which, in any other manner, binds Smith as assignee
of Link. An action of covenant would also be liable to the
objection that the contingency on which the lessor was
bound either to renew the lease or purchase the building,
had never arisen.
To avoid these difficulties, the plaintiff brings an action
on the case, in which he sets out this covenant with the entire lease and the other facts of the case, and seems to suppose that by virtue of the flexibility of this form of action,
it may be found to embrace some principle which will justify
a recovery. We have already seen that the law imposes upon
the defendant no obligation to pay for the building apart
from the contract. If the contract, when examined in the
light of the facts proved, imposes no such obligation, we are
at a loss to perceive what other ground of liability can b(
usserted against defendant.

Dec. 1864.]

KUTTER V. SMITH.
Opinion of the court.

It is argued that the plaintiff's assignor became the owner,
and had title or estate in the building as separated and distinguished from the land; and while the defendant had the
right to enter, take possession, and hold for a failure to pay
rent, that right was in some way subordinate to plaintiff's
right to the house. But if we concede so singular a proposition as that the title to the soil was in defendant, while that
of the building was in plaintifF, it by no means follows that
defendant is bound to purchase plaintiff's building. The
utmost that can be claimed on that subject is that Smith is
bound by the covenant of Link, the lessor, to purchase at
the end of ten years or renewi the lease. He may always exercise his option in favor of the latter proposition, and by
the contract may never be bound to purchase. So that if the
title to the building is in plaintiff, and defendant has wrongful
possession of it, we revert again to the proposition that trespass, or some form of action for use and occupation, is all
the legal remedy which the plaintiff has.
But we cannot concede that plaintiff or his assignor had
at any time the legal title to the building as distinct from the
lot. The well-settled rule is, that such erections as this become a part of the land as each stone and brick are added to
the structure. The only exceptions to this rule are the class
of fixtures already adverted to, and such rights as may grow
,out of express contract. The contract before us was not intended to change this rule. The agreement to purchase
means nothing more than that, in a certain event, the lessor
will pay the lessee the value of such building, but there is
no implication of any general title or ownership in the lessee
apart from that event. This contingency has not occurred,
and that it can never occur is the fault of the plaintiff and
his assignor. This observation is also applicable to the supposed hardship of taking the building, the product of the
plaintiff's money and labor, without compensation. It is
from plaintiff's own default that the right to do this arises.
He had his option to pay the rent due defendant, and retain
the right to payment for his building when the time should
arrive, or to give up his building, and with its loss relieve

KEUTTEIL V. SMITH.

[sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

himself of the burden of paying rent. He chose the latter
with full knowledge, and there is no injustice in holding him
to the consequence of his choice.
The covenant for re-entry provides that, in default oi payment of rent, the lessor may enter "and the said premises
repossess and enjoy, as in his first and former estate."
The plaintiff insists that the building is no part of such
former estate, and defendant, therefore, does not become its
owner by virtue of the re-entry. We have already shown
that the building does become a part of the land as it is
built. No such meaning was ever before attached to the
use of the word estate in a legal document. It is used in
reference to the nature of defendant's interest in the property, and not to the extent of improvements on the soil.
As if the lessor had a fee simple estate, it reverted to him
again as a fee simple. If he had a term for years, he was in
again as part of his term. But it had no relation to the question of whether that estate might be more or less valuable
when repossessed, or might bring to him more or less buildings.
We hold, then,
1. That without the aid of a special contract, the law imposes no obligation on the landlord to pay his tenant for
buildings erected on the demised premises.
2. That treating the parties to this suit as standing in the
places of the original lessor and lessee, no obligation arises
from the contract in this case, that the lessor shall purchase
or pay for the building erected on said premises, except as
an option, to be exercised at the end of each period of ten
years.
3. That the act of defendant in re-entering and possessing
himself of the premises for plaintiff's failure to pay rent,
imposes upon him no obligation to pay plaintiff the value of

the building.
As the ruling of the court, to which exception was taken,
was in conformity to these principles, the judgment must be
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

