MURRAY V. LARDNER.

[sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

enforcing such decrees has become very general), and unless
an appeal be allowed therefrom, the right of appeal tc this
court is virtually annulled in this class of cases, where the
decree is for the complainant.
8d. Because the accounting in such cases is necessarily
tedious and expensive, and should therefore be postponed
until the merits are finally disposed of; for if the decree be
reversed the accounting becomes a needless waste of time
and money, and even if it be modified, as to the nature or
extent of the patent or of the infringement of same, such
accounting becomes almost equally useless.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court,
and after stating the case said:
The decree is not final within the act of Congress providing for appeals to this court, according to a long and wellsettled class of cases, some of which we only need refer to in
disposing of the case.*
MITONg GRANTED.

MURRAY

V. LARDNER.

Coupon bonds, of the ordinary kind, payable to bearer, pass by delivery.
And a purchaser of them, in good faith, is unaffected by want of title
in the vendor. The burden of proof, on a question of such faith, lies
on the party who assails the possession. Gill v. Cabit (3 Barnewall &
Cresswell, 466), denied; Goodman v. Harvey (4 Adolphus & Ellis, 870),
approved; Goodman v. Simonds (20 Howard, 452), affirmed.
LARDNER was the owner of three bonds of the Camden
and Amboy Railroad Company, for $1000 each. They were
coupon bonds of the ordinary kind, and payable to bearer.
He resided in the country, about nine miles from Pbiladelphia, but had an office in that city, where he went to transact
business two days in the week, Wednesdays and Saturdays
He kept the bonds in a fire-proof in this office.
* The Palmyra, 10 Wheaton, 502; Barnard et al. v. Gibson, 7 Howard
C-50; Crawford v. Points, 13 Id. 11; Craighead v. Wilson, 18 Id. 199
Ucebe et al. v. Russell. 19 Id. 283.

Dec. 1864.]

MURRAY

v. LARDNER.

Statement of the case.

Murray was a broker of character, engaged in the nego.
tiation of such bonds in New York.
On the night of Wednesday, the 23d February, 1859,
Lardner's fire-proof was broken open, and the three bonds
stolen. The theft was not discovered till Saturday, the 26th.
Notices of the robbery appeared in the Philadelphia Ledger
(the newspaper of Philadelphia having the largest circulaion there), and in leading New York papers, on Monday,
the 28th. In the meantime, however, on the morning after
the theft, to wit, on Thursday, the 24th, two days before the
discovery of it (Saturday, the 26th), and four days before
the first notices in New York (Monday, the 28th), these
bonds were negotiated to Murray, at his office in Wall
Street, New York, for full value. The testimony of Parker
-a broker in that city for the negotiation of loans, and a
person, like Murray, of unquestionable character-presented the history of the transaction, in substance, thus:
"On the 24th of February, 1859, a man came into my office,
and proposed to borrow $2000 on the three bonds in question.
I did not know him. He was quite gentlemanly in appearance;
very well dressed; manners unexceptionable; quite intelligent;
answered questions without hesitation. Applications of this
sort-applications, I mean, from strangers-are not unusual;
they occur often, though not every day. I asked the person
who he was, and he said that he was Dr. A. D. Bates, of Mvilford, Sussex County, New Jersey. After some conversation
with him, I took the bonds to effect a loan, and went to Mr.
Murray, who I knew dealt in this particular species of security,
and proposed to borrow from him $2000, on the three bonds,
for Bates. Mr. Murray and I had some conversation as to the
terms of the loan, and as to his charge for brokerage. At this
"t.erview, I said to Mr. Murray that Bates was a stranger to
r e. Murray said to this that he would have to satisfy himself
how Bates came by the bonds, before he could make the loan,
and asked me whether Bates had any city references. I told
h-m that I had already asked Bates that same question; that he
haa no city references, but knew only physicians. I stated to
Mlurray that Bates had told me that he had bought the bonds
ibr investment, and now wanted the money to pay for some

MURRAY

V.

LARDNER.

[sap. Ct

Statement of the case.

lands which he had purchased. After awhile, Bates came to my
office again. I then went with him to Mr. Murray's office, where
1 introduced him to Murray. This was towards three o'clock.
Murray asked him of whom he got the bonds. Hie said of Mr.
Lardner, of Philadelphia; nothing else. Neither Murray nor I
knew Mr. Lardner. Murray asked him if he was acquainted in
the city. He replied, that he supposed, if he had time, that he
could find a dozen people in the city that knew him; ladies and
gentlemen. Murray asked him if he knew, any physicians. He
said that he knew Dr. Mott and Dr. Parker; very well known
men in New York: he may have mentioned others. In reply
to a question f'om Murray, whether he knew Dr. liosack, the
family physician of Murray, he answered that he did not; that
Dr. iosack was of the old school, and he, Bates, was of the
new. Murray asked him if he knew Dr. Riggs, a physician of
New Jersey, with whom he, Murray, had had some dealings.
Bates said that he did by reputation. lHe told Murray what he
wanted the money for. Murray told him he would lend him the
money on the terms which he had named to me. The loan was
accordingly made without further inquiry; Murray taking the
bonds and paying the money, and Bates executing what is called
a stock-note."
The testimony of Murray was, in the main, corroborative
of this, so far as it related to himself; particularly as to the
inquiries which he, Murray, had made of Bates, as to his
acquaintance with medical men, Drs. Hosack, Riggs, &c.
He stated, however, that he had no remembrance of Parker's
telling him that he did not know Bates, which, if it had been
said, Murray thought would have awakened his suspicion.
Murray admitted, however, that it was always his custom to
know from whom securities came before dealing, and that it was
the custom of brokers generally; but he added that he did not
think it necessary to inquire about Bates, "he being introduced by Parker."
"Dr. A. D. Bates, of Milford, Sussex County, New Jersey," was never seen, nor could be heard of, after the interviews above described. Neither could any such place as
"Milford, Sussex County, New Jersey," from which place he
stated that he came, be found on the maps of that State.

MURRAY

Dec. 1864.]

V. LARDNER

Argument for the broker.

On detinue brought by Lardner for the three bonds, in
the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York,
the defendant's counsel asked the court to charge,
"That there were no such suspicious circumstances attending
the transaction between Bates and Murray as to put Murray on
inquiry; and that Murray was not chargeable with bad faith by
any omission on his part to inform himself in regard to the
bonds, and Bates's title to them, further than he did."
The court refused so to charge, and charged as follows:
"It will be for you, gentlemen of the jury, to say whether the
defendant has made out,-as the burden lies upon the defendant,-whether he has made out that he received the paper in
good faith, without any notice of the defect of the title; in other
words, of the theft from the plaintiff; or whether there were such
circumstances of the character which I have described to you as
would warrant the inference that there was ground of suspicion,
and that he should have made further inquiry as to the character
of the paper."
The instruction was excepted to; and the jury having
found for the plaintiff, Lardner, the correctness of the law,
as thus given to them in charge, was the question before
this court in error.
Mr. Carlisle,for Murray, the plaintiff in error: The bonds
were ordinary coupon bonds, payable to bearer; such as by
the most recent decisions of this court are declared to be
"negotiable by the commercial usages of the whole civilized
world;"* "possessed of all the qualities of commercial
paper."t They were entitled, therefore, to the immunities
which, under the commercial law, attach to that species of
security. Now, there was no evidence so much as tending to
show knowledge, notice, or even reasonable grounds of suspicion, that the bonds were not the property of the perso4
who negotiated them to Murray; nor any evidence tending
to show that they were not taken by Murray bond fide, and
* Mercer County v. Hackett, 1 Wallace, 95.

t
VOL. I1.

Geliwke- r. City of Dubuqur,

Id. 20C3.

MURRAY V. LARDNER.

[Sup. or.

Argument for the owner of the bonds.

in the usual course of business. If this is so, there was
error in submitting Murray's title to the verdict of a jury,
who, by such submission, were empowered to dispose of his
rights without any evidence, but simply as their notions of
natural justice, without regard to the rules of law, might
dictate. We submit that the charge was in conflict with
the law, as finally settled by this court upon this questio vexatissima, in Goodman v. Simonds.* On the ground that it has
been thus decided, counsel at this bar need not consider or
examine English cases at all. It would be disrespectful to
this court to do so; for in this very court, and in the case
cited, all the authorities, not only in this country but in
England, were laboriously reviewed, and it was held to be
error to have charged the jury that, "if such facts and circumstances were known to the plaintiff as caused him to suspect,
or as would have caused one of ordinary prudence to suspect
that the drawer had no interest in the bill, &c., or right to use
the bill for his own benefit, and by ordinary diligence he could hace
ascertained, &c., then they must find for the defendants."
There must be actual bad faith; a matter not at all here
pretended. If the judgment of this court is to stand, the
judgment below must be reversed.
Mr. J. H. Bradley, contra: The charge was as favorable to
the defendant below as he had a right to ask. Any obligation less strict upon the purchaser of bonds like these, would
encourage robberies of a class of securities held for investment, as much as, or more, than they are used in commerce.
Here was a man, a perfect stranger to every one coucerned,-confessedly not belonging to the city where he
was attempting to borrow money,-offering bonds which he
says that he had bought in another city still; not the place
of his residence either. He comes unaccompanied by any
one. He brings no note of introduction. He is not asked
for any identification of himself; nothing in short to prove,
even imperfectly, that such a man as "Dr. A. D. Bates"
existed, or that Sussex County, New Jersey, had such a
" 20 Howard, 343.

Dec. 1864.]

MURRAY v. LARDNER.
Argument for the owner of the bonds.

town as Milford at all. He states that he got the bonda
from Mr. Lardner; but he is not asked who Mr. Iaardner
is, nor when he got them, nor where is his broker's bill of
purchase, the sort of bill given on every regular broker's
sale. He Ic oks well enough; is showishly dressed; is not
a clown in manners, and can answer questions glibly. And
this is his whole evidence of character when Mr. Murray
accepts him as a negotiator in a large money transaction.
Both Murray and Parker were impressed-Murray especially-with the idea that "Dr. A. D. Bates" might be an
impostor. It is plain that Parker did tell Murray that he
did not know Bates. Why, else, did Murray inquire about
Bates's knowing Dr. Hosack, &c., as it is admitted that he
did? It is plain, also, they saw the danger of dealing with
any person so wholly unvouched. And they did ask for
references. They got them, too; but they never took the
pains to follow them out, although they had time to do so.
With a perfect sense of the propriety of having some knowledge, neither party takes the least pains to get any; and
this in a case where the expression of even an intention to
get it would have probably revealed the whole fraud, and,
as Parker had the bonds in his possession, have restored
them to their true and honorable owner, Mr. Lardner. The
"commissions" were too tempting. It was "near three
o'clock," says the testimony. Delay might lose a cusQuite uncertain- as it is
tomer-and "commissions."
obvious that these parties were-whether Bates was a thief
or not, they still take as true his wholly unsupported account of everything, though as to how he came by the
bonds they scarcely inquire.
Nkow, instructions of a court must be taken in reference to
the facts. The facts here were undisputed, and upon them
the instruction was singularly proper. It is contended that
it was inconsistent with what is decided in Goodman v. Si
monds in this court. But we think it quito consistent witb
what was there declared, interpreting one part of the opinior
in that case by the other. The court there says :*
* Pae 365.

116

MURRAY v. LAIRDNER.

ISUp. (h.

Argument for the owner of the bonds.

"We now repeat, that a bond fide colder of a negotiable in
strument for a valuable consideration, without notice of fat

which impeach its validity between the antecedent parties, ...
holds the title unaffected by those facts"
It says, also, in another place :*
"Unless it be first shown that he had knowledge of such facts
and circumstances, at the time the transfer was made." .
"And the question, whether he had such knowledge or not, is a
question of factfor the jury," &6.
These abstract expressions might, or might not, if left by
themselves, support the case of the other side. But the
court brings them into closer limits, by declaring of the
purchaser,t as follows:
"While he is not obliged to make inquiries, he must not wilfully shut his eyes to the means of knowledge which he knows are at
hand; ..... .for the reason that such conduct, whether equivalent to notice or not, would be plenary evidence of bad faith."
The parties here did shut their eyes to means of knowledge which they knew were at hand. They had a strong
scent of fraud, and were on its track. But they would not
respect the scent nor follow the track. In reference to the
case, the judge's charge was consistent enough with what is
above declared in this court, in Goodman v. Simonds.
A distinction exists between this case and the one jusi
named and so much relied on by the other side, in that this
case arises on coupon bonds; while that was on ordinary
commercial paper. These bonds, it is to be remembered,
are owned everywhere for investment. They are negotiable,
we admit. But they are not bank bills, nor should they be
put, in all respects, on the footing of bank bills, or even of
mercantile paper. Bank paper is money, "circulation,"
",currency." Ordinary commercial paper is circulating continually among merchants. But these bonds are held for
*Page 366.

t Page 367.

bec. 1864.1

t~ec
MURRAY
184.]

V. !,ARDIM.

Argument for the owner of the bonds.

investment. In this particular case, Murray, alone of Nevi
York brokers, was in the habit of dealing in them. Bank:
bills must pass at once. You can't stop to inquire how the
person offering them got them. He could not, perhaps, possibly tell. Moreover, the amount of bank bills that persons
have at auy one time is not often very large; and if stolen,
"hue and cry" is raised at once. The same thing is true,
though in a less degree, of commercial paper. But these
coupon bonds are different. If a man invests in them,-as
every one does invest in them, and the rich largely,-he
must count the amounts which are thus negotiable by thousands and tens of thousands, and hundreds of thousands
of dollars. These bonds are pui away. Here, then, are
these securities in every man's house, in his chamber, in his
office, in his counting-room; and he looks for them only
when he cuts their coupons to collect his interest twice a
year. Indeed, he may cut off several coupons at once, and
so not see his bonds thus often. Their negotiability should
have such protection as is needed for that class of securities;
but the law should not give such protection to their negotiability as it does to that of bank bills, and so offer inducements to servants, clerks, &c., to steal and sell them.
The whole class of principles which Mr: Carlisle would
maintain, it will be conceded, are in opposition to the law as
laid down in Gill v. Cubitt' by Lord Tenterden, a commercial lawyer by pre-eminence, and a judge as well acquainted
with the extent to which the necessities of trade should control the general code of morals, as any judge who has succeeded him. His immediate successor, Lord Denman, spoke
of him in a great case in the House of Lords,t as "one of
the most learned and reflecting of judges;" one who "understood the law of England, and had as good a right to
give a confident opinion upon it as any of the most distin.
guished men who have at any time appeared in Westmin.
ster Hall."
* 8 Barnewall & Cresswell, 466.
J Queen v. Millis, 10 Clark & Finnelly, 822, 823.

MURRAY V. LARDNER.

[Sup. ot

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented by the instruction excepted to is
not a new one, either in commercial jurisprudence or in this
court.
The general rule of the common law is, that, except by a
sale in market overt, no one can give a better title to personal property than he has himself. The exemption from
this principle of securities, transferable by delivery, was
established at an early period. It is founded upon principles of commercial policy, and is now as firmly fixed as the
rule to which it is an exception. It was applied by Lord
Holt to a bank bill in Anon, 1st Salkeld, 126. This is the
earliest reported case upon the subject. He held that the
action must fail "by reason of the course of trade, which
creates a property in the assignee or bearer."
The leading case upon the subject is M£iller v. Race,* decided by Lord Mansfield. The question, in that case, also
related to a bank note. The right of the bondfide holder for
a valuable consideration was held to be paramount against
the loser. He put the decision upon the grounds of the
course of business, the interests of trade, and especially that
bank notes pass from hand to hand, in all respects, like coin.
The same principle was applied by that distinguished judge
in Grant v. Vaughan,t to a merchant's draft upon his banker.
He there said: In "Miller v. Race, 31st Geo. II, B. R., the
holder of a bank note recovered against the cashier of a
bank, though the mail had been robbed of it, and payment
had been stopped, it appearing that he came by it fairly and
bonafide, and upon a valuable consideration, and there is no
distinction between a bank note and such a note as this is."
In Peacock v. Rhodes,t he said: "The law is settled that a
holder coming fairly by a bill or note has nothing to do with
the transaction between the original parties, unless, perhaps,
in the single case, which is a hard one, but has been determined, of a note for money won at play." The question
has since been considered no longer an open one in the
* 1st Burrow, 452.

t 3 Id. 1516.

$ 2 Douglass, 633.

Dec. 1864.]

MURitAY V. LARDNER
Opinion of the court.

English law, as to any class of securities within the category
mentioned.
What state of facts should be deemed inconsistent with
the good faith required was not settled by the earlier cases.
In Lawson v. Weston,* Lord Kenyon said: "If there was any
fraud in the transaction, or if a bond fide consideration had
not been paid for the bill by the plaintiffs, to be sure they
could not recover; but to adopt the principle of the defence
to the full extent stated, would be at once to paralyze the
circulation of all the paper in the country, and with it all
its commerce. The circumstance of the bill having been
lost might have been material, if they could bring knowledge of that fact home to the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs
might or might not have seen the advertisement; and it
would be going a great length to say that a banker was
bound to make inquiry concerning everybill brought to him
to discount; it would apply as well to a bill for £10 as for
£10,000."
In the later case of Gill v. Cubitt,t Abbott, Chief Justice,
upon the trial, instructed the jury, " That there were two
questions for their consideration: first, whether the plaintiff
had given value for the bill, of which there could be no
doubt; and, secondly, whether he took it under circumstances which ought to have excited the suspicion of a prudent and careful man. If they thought he had taken the
bill under such circumstances, then, notwithstanding he had
given the full value for it, they ought to find a verdict for
the defendant." The jury found for the defendant, and a
rule nisi for a new trial was granted. The question presented
was fully argued. The instruction given was unanimously
approved by the court. The rule was discharged, and judgment was entered upon the verdict. This case clearly overruled the prior case of Lawson v. Weston, and it controlled a
large sieries of later cases.
In (.,rook v. Jadis,jthe action was brought by the indorsee
* 4 Espinasse, 56.

5 Barnewall & Adolphus, 909.

t 3 Barnewall & Cresswell, 46.

120

MURRAY V. LtADNtnR.

[Slip. ot

Opinion of the court.

of a bill against the drawer. It was held that it was "no
defence that the plaintiff took the bill under circumstances
which ought to have excited the suspicion of a prudent man
that it had not been fairly obtained; the defendant must
show that the plaintiff was guilty of gross negligence."
In Backhouse v. Iarrison,*the same doctrine was affirmed,
and Gill v. Cubitt was earnestly assailed by one of the judges.
Patterson, Justice, said: "I have no hesitation in saying
that the doctrine laid down in Gill v. Cubilt, and acted upon
in other cases, that a party who takes a bill under circumstances which ought to have excited the suspicion of a prudent man cannot recover, has gone too far, and ought to be
restricted. I can perfectly understand that a party who takes
a bill fraudulently, or under such circumstances that he must
know that the person offering it to him has no right to it,
will acquire no title; but I never could understand that a
party who takes a bill bonafide, but under the circumstances
mentioned in Gill v. Cubitt, does not acquire a property in it.
I think the fact found by the jury here that the plaintiff took
the bills bonafide, but under circumstances that a reasonably
cautious man would not Lave taken them, was no defence."
In Goodman v. Harvey,t the subject again came under consideration. Lord Denman, speaking for the court, held this
language: "I believe we are all of opinion that gross negligence only would not be a sufficient answer where the party
has given a consideration for the bill. Gross negligence
may be evidence of mala fides, but is not the same thing.
We have shaken off the last remnant of .the contrary doctrine. Where the bill has passed to the plaintiff, without
any proof of bad faith in him, there is no objection to his
title."
A final blow was thus given to the doctrine of Gill v. Uubitt
The rule established in this case has ever since obtained in
the English courts, and may now be considered as fundamental in the commercial jurisprudence of that country.
In this country there has been the same contrariety of
*5 Barnewall & Adolphus, 1098.

'1 4 Adolpl-us & E llis, 870

' Dec. 1864.]

MURRAY V. LARDNER.
Opinion of the court.

decisions as in the English courts, but there is a large and
constantly increasing preponderance on the side of the rule
laid down in Goodman v. Harvey.
The question first came before this court in wift v. Tyson.*
Goodman v. Harvey, and the class of cases to which it belongs
were followed. The court assumed the proposition which
they maintain, to be too clear to require argument or antbority to support it. The ruling in that case was followed
in Goodman v. Simonds,t and again in the Bank of Pittsburg
v. _hfeal.1 In Goodman v. Simonds, the subject was elaborately
and exhaustively examined both upon principle and authority. That case affirms the following propositions:
The possession of such paper carries the title with it to
the holder: "The possession and title are one and inseparable."
The party who takes it before due for a valuable consideration, without knowledge of any defect of title, and in
good faith, holds it by a title valid against all the world.
Suspicion of defect of title or the knowledge of circumstances which would excite such suspicion in the mind of a
prudent man, or gross negligence on the part of the taker,
at the time of the transfer, will not defeat his title. That
result can be produced only by bad faith on his part.
The burden of proof lies on the person who assails the
right claimed by the party in possession.
Such is the settled law of this court, and we feel no disposition to depart from it. The rule may perhaps be said
to resolve itself into a question of honesty or dishonesty,
for guilty knowledge and wilfid ignorance'alike involve the
result of bad faith. They are the same in effect. Where
there is no fraud there can be no question. The circum.3ances mentioned, and others of a kindred character, while
inconclusive in themselves, are admissible in evidence, and
firaud established, whether by direct or circumstantial evidence, is fhtal to the title of the holder.
The rule laid down in the class of cases of which Gill v.
*16

Peters, 1.

t 20 Howard, 343.

$22 Id. 96.

MURRAY V. LARDNER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Cubitt is the antetype, is hard to comprehend and difficult to
apply. One innocent holder may be more or less suspicious
under similar circumstances at one time than at another,
and the same remark applies to prudent men. One prudent
man may also suspect where another would not, and the
standard of the jury may be higher or lower than that of
other men equally prudent in the management of their
affairs. The rule established by the other line of decisions
has the advantage of greatc r clearness and directness. A
careful judge may readily so submit a case under it to the
jury that they can hardly fail to reach the right conclusion.
We are well aware of the importance of the principle involved in this inquiry. These securities are found in the
channels of commerce everywhere, and their volume is constantly increasing. They represent a large part of the
wealth of the commercial world. The interest of the community at large in the subject is deep-rooted and widebranching. It ramifies in every direction, and its fruits
enter daily into the affairs of persons in all conditions of life.
While courts should be careful not so to shape or apply the
rule as to invite aggression or give an easy triumph to fraud,
they should not forget the considerations of equal importance which lie in the other direction. In Miller v. -Race,
Lord Mansfield placed his judgment mainly on the ground
that there was no diference in principle between bank notes
and money. In Grant v. Vaughan, he held that there was no
distinction between bank notes and any other commercial
paper. At that early period his far-reaching sagacity saw
the importance and the bearings of the subject.
The instruction under consideration in the -case before us
is in conflict with the settled adjudications of this court.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the case remanded for further
proceedings in conformity to this opinion.

