218

CooKcE

V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case and opinion of the court.

COOKE V. UNITED STATES.
1. The mere fact that an act of Congress authorizes a judgment obtained
by the Government against a party, to be discharged by the payment
of a sum less than $2000, is no ground to ask a dismissal of a case of
which the court had properly obtained jurisdiction before the act
passed. The party may not choose thus to settle the judgment, but
prefer to try to reverse it altogether.
2. When the sum in controversy is large enough to give the court jurisdiction of a case, such jurisdiction once properly obtained, is not taken
away by a subsequent reduction of the sum below the amount requisite.

IN this case the United States had obtained a judgment
for $3796.80 against Cooke, who to the same took a writ of
error.
The Attorney-General now moved the court to dismiss the
cause for want of jurisdiction, and assigned for reason that
since the issuing and serving of the writ of error, an act of
Congress had reduced the amount in controversy below the
sum of $2000.
On referring to the act, it appeared to authorize a remission of $2500 from the $3796.80, for which judgment had
been obtained; but the remission was offered on condition
of payment of the remaining $1296.80: and nothing was put
before the court to show that Cooke had availed himself of the offer
made.
The CHIEF JUSTICE : It does not appear that the proposition has been accepted; and if not, the amount in controversy remains unaffected. But had the alleged reduction
been made by an actual payment, the jurisdiction of the
court would not be taken away. The jurisdictional facts
existed at the time of issuing and serving the writ of error.
By its issue and service the court obtained jurisdiction over
fhe cause, and this jurisdiction once acquired, cannot be
taken away by any change in the value of the subject of
controversy.
MOTION OVERRULED AND CASE RETAINED.

Dec. 1864.]

SMI4. V.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

SMITH ET AL.
I

V. UNITED STATES.

Where several persons sign a bond to the Government as .urety for a

Government officer, which bond, statute requires shall be approved by
a judge, before the officer enters on the duties of his office, an erasure
by one of the sureties of his name from the bond-though such erasure
be made before the instrument is submitted to the judge for approval, and,
therefore, while it is uncertain whether it will be accepted by the Government, or ever take effect,-avoids the bond, after approval, as respects a surety who had not been informed that the name was thus
erased; the case being one where, as the court assumed, the tendency
of the evidence was, that the person whose name was erased signed the
bond before or at the same time with the other party, the defendant.
2. Any unauthorized variation in an agreement which a surety has signed,
that may prejudice him, or may substitute an agreement different from
that which he came into, discharges him.

ANw act of Congress, relating to marshals of the United
States,* provides, that "before" the marshal enters on the
duties of his office, he shall become "bound" for the faithful
performance of the same, before the judge of the District
Court of the United States, jointly and severally, with sufficient sureties, "to be approved by the district judge."
With this act in force, Pine was appointed marshal, and
gave bond on which the name of Smith and others had been
signed, and appeared as sureties. Suit having been brought
against the marshal, Smith, and the others, his sureties, in
the Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois, upon
this bond, Smith pleaded that the bond was not his deed.
On the trial the United States offered the bond in evidence. The instrument showed on the face that it had been
signed by a certain Hoyne as one of the sureties; but that
his name was now erased. The defendants, accordingly,
objected to the admission of the bond in evidence, on the
ground that there was an erasure and alteration thereon,
which it was the duty of the plaintiff to explain. The plain.
tiff then called the district judge, who had approved the
bond. The learned justice testified that when it was brought
Act of 24th of September, 1789; 1 Stat. at Large, 87.

220

S2I1TH V. UNITED 8TATES.

[Sup. CL

Statement of the case.

to him for approval, it presented the same appearance exactly as it did now at the trial, except that the names of the
sureties were inserted by him in the first part of it; that it
was brought either by one McGill or by the defendant, Pine;
that Pine had difficulty in getting sureties, and had, some
time before, told him, the witness, that Hoyne had objections
to having his name on the bond, and Hoyne afterwards told
him the same thing. The judge had not then seen it. Afterwards it was brought to him, with iloyne's name erased.
Not knowing the signatures of all the parties, he held the
bond several days, and all the sureties came in and acknowledged the execution of it before him, except the defendant,
Smith. He then approved the bond, and being personally
acquainted with Smith's writing, certified to the genuineness
of the signatures. The bond was then admitted in evidence,
under objection.
At a subsequent stage of the trial the defendant, Smith,
called the district judge as a witness, when he testified that
some time before the approval of the bond by him, iloyne
stated to him that he had signed the bond, with others, for
Pine, but that he had become dissatisfied, and that McGill
and Pine had both agreed that his name should be taken
off;-that he wanted it off, and was not willing it should
remain on the bond. The witness said, further, that when
the sureties who acknowledged the execution of the bond
appeared before him, he might have called their attention
to the erasure of the name of Hoyne, but was not positive;
was inclined to think he did; thought he handed it to each
one of them, and asked them if they signed it; he didn't
know that they read it.
iloyne himself testified that "he signed the bond,-which
was circulated for signatures,-with others;" but that soon
after, and before its approval, he became dissatisfied, and
requested McGill and Pine to have his name erased; and
that they promised to do this. Not being able himself to
get the bond to do it, and knowing that it would have to be
approved by the district judge, he went to that officer and
informed him of his wish; said he had signed it, and wanted

Deo.

1604.J

SMITHI V. UNITED BTATE.
Argument for the United States.

to have his name erased, &c. The judge told him, that in
justice to the other signers, he should toll them that he wanted
his name off; that accordingly, in a vei'y short time, he, the
witness, spoke to all the parties who had signed, except Smith,
who was absent, and told them that he wanted his name off.
A few days after, in response to his inquiry, the judge told
him that his name had been erased. When it was done, and
by whom, he did not know.
On this state of facts, the counsel of the defendant, Smith,
requested the court below to charge, among other things, as
follows:
1. That if the jury believed, from the evidence, that the
name of iloyne was erased from the bond in suit, without
the knowledge or consent of him, the defendant, Smith,
and that he, Smith, did not acknowledge the bond as his,
subsequently to such erasure, the jury should find in his
favor.
2. That the law places the burden of proving such consent
upon the plaintiffs, and if they have failed to make such
proof, they are not entitled to a verdict.
The court refused so to charge, and the defendants excepted. Verdict and judgment having gone for the United
States, the defendants took this writ of error.
.Mr. Coffey, special counsel for the United States, defendant in
error: There is no evidence in this case that Smith, or any
of the signers of Marshal Pine's bond, made any condition
when signing as to what persons, or what number of persons,
should unite with them. Indeed, it is quite evident not
only that there was no agreement or condition made by any
of them on signing, but that each signed independently of
the others, and without knowing, except so far as they had
signed, who their co-sureties were to be. For loyne testiies that he "signed the bond, which was circulated for signatures, with others;" and the district judge testifies that
when he approved the bond he inserted the names of the
sureties in the first part of it, It was the common case of

222

SMITH

V.

UMTED STATES.

[Sup. CL.

Argument for the United States.

a person carrying around an official bond, and getting any
persons whatever who are willing to oblige, to a certain extent, the principal. When, therefore, the sureties signed,
they must have done so without knowing who were to be
their co-sureties, and, of course, without any agreement as
to who or how many were to sign. This, then, we think
may be assumed as part of our case.
The erasure of Hoyne's name, of which Smith now seeks
to avail himself,-the first point, and one which, if decided
as we think it ought to be, will render the others unimportant on the proofs,-was made, not only before the delivery
of the bond to the plaintiff, but before the essential preliminary to its execution of approval by the United States dis
trict judge; and it was evidently made by Marshal Pine
himself, or at his instance, and before the plaintiff had any
connection with it. Certainly it was not made by or at the
instance of the plaintiff. The explicit direction of the act
of Congress relating to marshals, that the marshal shall
"become bound" before the judge of the District Court,
with "sureties to be app'oed by the district judge," shows
that the bond is in no manner executed until it is brought to
the judge and approved by him. That approval is as essential to its valid execution as is the acknowledgment made in
court to a valid recognizance. Before it is given, the signatures do not bind the sureties, for one important element to
a good contract is wanting, viz., the agreement of the United
States to accept them; that agreement being, by the law, expressed by the judicial approval. When, therefore, Hoyne's
name was stricken off the bond, the erasure left him, as to
the obligation which the sureties were about to assume, precisely where he would have stood if he had only promised to
sign it, and had not done so. And surely if, having promised to sign it, he had never done so, it could not be pretended that his failure to sign would discharge the sureties
who had signed and been approved, even though he and they
had previously agreed that unless all signed, none shorid be
bound; unless, indeed, the United States had been a party to
fbat agreement. Such an agreement might bind all the sure-

Dec. 1864.]

SMITH V.

UNITED STATES.

Argument for the United States.

ties who made it, but could not affect the obligee, who was
not a party to it, nor furnish any of them with a good defence to the bond, whatever right of action, in the event of
loss, it might give to the sureties who signed, against one
who did not sign. If, then, the erasure of Hoyne's name
before approval, and without the connivance of the United
States, no more affected the obligation of the other sureties
than his failure to keep a verbal promise to sign would have
done, it follows that it cannot relieve Smith from the bond.
And this result follows, if Smith, when his name was approved, had no knowledge of the erasure, as it would follow
if he had had a special agreement with Hoyne that one was
not to sign without the other.
But even if the erasure be treated as a material alteration
of the bond, after it was so far executed as to bind the
signers, still, if it was made by or at the instance of Marshal
Pine, without the knowledge or consent of the United States,
it does not discharge Smith from liability. In such case the
alteration must have been made by or with the knowledge
or consent of the obligee. And, however, in the absence of
evidence, that knowledge or consent might be inferred,
where the bond had been delivered and was in his possession, in a case like this, where the alteration was made before
it was delivered or came into possession of the United States,
the knowledge or -consent of the obligee to the alteration
must be affirmatively proved by the party alleging and availing himself of it. To this effect is United States v. Linn et al.,
in this court,* an action on Linn's official bond. Duncan,
a surety, pleaded as special matter in bar that he had signed
and delivered it to Linn to be transmitted to the plaintiff,
and after the sureties had been approved by the district
judge, it was, without the consent or authority of Duncan,
materially altered in this, that scrawls by way of seals were
affixed to the signatures of Duncan and the other signers,
whereby the instrument was materially changed and vitiated,
&c. In considering this plea, the court said:
* 1 Howard, 104.

SMITH

C. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Cr.

Argument for the United States.

"The plea does not indicate in any manner by whom the alteration was made. It does not allege that it was done with the
knowledge or by the authority or direction of the plaintiff, nor
does it even deny that it was done with the knowledge of the
defendant, Duncan. The plea does not contain any allegation
inconsistent with the conclusion that it was altered by a stranger,
without the knowledge or consent of the plaintiff; and if so, it would
not have affected the validity of the instrument. The demurrer ad
mits nothing more than that the seals were affixed after the instrument had been signed by the parties and delivered to Linn,
to be transmitted to the plaintiff, and that this was done without
the consent, direction, or authority of him, the said Joseph Duncan. Is this enough to avoid the instrument and bar the recovery? It certainly is not, for the seals might have been affixed by
a stranger, without the knowledge or authority of the plaintiff, and
would not have affected the validity of the instrument."
If this principle be true of an alteration made after the
bond is judicially approved, it certainly is true where the
alteration is made by the principal co-obligor before the judicial approval, which, as we have seen, is the legal method
of expressing the consent of the United States to the contract, and before which the obligation involved in signing
does not begin.
But it is settled that even where the face of a joint and
several bond shows that it was intended to have been executed by others, in addition to those whose names are appended to it, and those others have not united in signing it,
still it is the valid and binding deed of those who do sign,
unless they show an express reservation or condition at the
time that it was not to be binding on them, without being
also executed by the others.
In Pawling v. United States, in this court,* where the sureties in an official bond proved expressly that they bigned on
condition that others should sign, who did not sign, this court
held that it was evidence for a jury to infer a delivery as an
escrow. It is evident that without proof of that condition
they would have been held bound.
4 Cranch, 219.

Dec. 1864.]

eMIT8

C. UNTED

STATES.

Argument for the surety.

To relieve the deIbindant, Smith, under these circunstances, would enable the obligors, in an official bond like
this, to practice an easy fraud upon the Government. For
it would only be necessary for those who sign such a bond
to make a collusive arrangement with some one who did not
sign, and, when sued on the bond, prove that arrangement
in discharge of themselves.
Mr. E. S. Smith, contra:The assumption that Smith signed
without knowing who else was to sign is not according to
the evidence. It is obvious that each party in signing expected certain others would sign. Their names, we can
hardly, in the nature of things, doubt, were stated. Any
man in signing such a bond would naturally ask who else
was to sign it, and according as responsible or irresponsible
persons were named, might consent or refuse. This is plain.
Hoyne may have signed with Smith. There is nothing'to
disprove that theory. At all events, the direction of the district judge to Hoyne, that he must notify to all the others his
wish to have his own name erased, makes it obvious that all
the others did know that his name was there, and did rely,
as the condition of their putting their own there, on the fact.
Smith never personally appeared before the district judge
and acknowledged his signature at all. The spirit of the
statute requires the sureties to acknowledge the bond before
the judge; to do under his eye, or else to acknowledge before
him that they have done, whatever they ought to do. Signing and sealing alone does not bind them. Acknowledgment before the judge, and his approval after that, are superadded requisites to give efficacy to the sureties' act. This
position is, in reality, taken by the other side to show that
Hoyne's signature was a nullity, and, therefore, its erasure
no alteration of a deed. But it is an argument that cuts two
ways. It operates quite independently of Hoyne, and goes
to destroy the whole ground of suit against Smith.
The taking away of Iloyne's name, therefore, was a material alteration; one going to the foundation of the obligation.
It is said tl'at the alteration was made without the know.
V 07.. it.

15

S.MTII C. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ledge of the United States, without the knowledge of the
obligee, therefore; that the alteration accordingly does not
affect the validity of the instrument. But the district judge
was the representative of the United States. It was made
with his knowledge. His acts and consents are those of the
Government.
These principles would decide the case against the Government in any case; but in this one it is to be observed that
Smith and others were but sureties. The rule of law in regard to this class of persons is settled. Standing in no equity
to the plaintiff, a surety will be bound only to the extent and
in the manner set out in the words of his contract. No implication can be made against him. The case, therefore, is
to be decided with special reference to this fact.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before the court upon a writ of error to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois. Suit was instituted by the United States,
and the record shows that it was an action of debt on the
official bond of Charles N. Pine, late marshal of the United
States for the district where the suit was brought. Service
was not made on the principal in the bond, nor on four of
the sureties as named in the declaration. Of those served,
three were defaulted, and the remaining three, Thomas
Hoyne, William B. Snowhook, and Ezekiel S. Smith, appeared and made defence. First two pleaded,-1, non est
factum; 2, performance by principal. Smith filed separate
pleas,-1, Nil debit; 2, non est factum. Issue was joined
upon those several pleas, and the parties went to trial. Verdict and judgment were for the plaintiffs, and the defendants
excepted and sued out this writ of error.
I. Record shows that the plaintiffs, at the trial, offered the
bond described in the declaration in evidence, to prove the
issue on their part, but the defendants objected to the reading of the same as inadmissible, because, as they alleged, it
had been altered by the erasure of the name of one of the
qureties. Yielding tc that objection. the plaintiffs called the

Dec. 1864.]

SMITH V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

district judge, and examined him as a witness. Hie testified
to the effect that the bond, when it was brought to him for
approval, was precisely as it appeared when offHered in evidence, except that the names of the sureties were inserted
by him in the introductory part of the instrument. His
statement was, that it was brought to him for approval either
by the marshal or his principal deputy, and that the erasure
as described was there, just as it appeared at the time the
witness was examined. Witness did not see the bond till it
was brought to him for approval with the name erased; but
he had previously been informed, both by the marshal and
the person whose name was erased, that the latter had objections to having his name remain on the bond. Signatures of
some of the parties not being known to the witness, he held
the bond for several days after it was presented, and during
that time all of the sureties, except the defendant, Smith,
.came in and acknowledged its execution. Whereupon the
witness approved the bond agreeably to the certificate in the
record, which is under his signature. Substance of the certificate is that all of the parties to the instrument, except the
defendant, Smith, acknowledged the genuineness of their
signatures; and that the district judge, being satisfied from
his own knowledge and from evidence that the signature of
Smith also was genuine, approved the bond. Being asked
by the defendants if Smith had ever consented to the erasure,
the witness answered that he had no knowledge upon the
subject. Relying on the explanations given by the witness,
the plaintiffs again offered the bond in evidence, and the
court, overruling the objections of the defendants, admitted
the same to be read to the jury, which constitutes the first
exception of the defendants.
Certain treasury transcripts were also produced by the
plaintiffs, exhibiting the official settlement of the accounts
of the marshal at the Treasury Department, together with
the statement of certain treasury warrants and drafts in his
favor, showing a balance due to the plaintiffs. Evidence was
then offered by the defendants tending to show that the settlement of the marshal's account as stated in the treasury

:28

I82

V. U

MIED
STATES.

LSup. Cl.

Opinion of the court.

transcripts, was not correct. Most of the documents offered
for that purpose were objected to by the plaintiff, and were
excluded by the court. Defendants excepted to the rulings
in that behalf, but in the view taken of the case it will not
be necessary to examine the questions which the exceptions
present.
Having offered evidence upon the merits, they recalled the
district judge, and examined him again as to the erasure.
Among other things, he testified that before he approved
the bond, the person whose name was erased told him that
he had signed it with others for the marshal, and that he
had become dissatisfied, and wanted his name taken off; that
the marshal and his deputy had both agreed that his name
should be erased, and that he was not willing that it should
remain.
Same parties also called and examined Philip A. Hoyne,
whose name was erased from the bond. Material statements
of the witness are that the bond was circulated for signatures
by the principal deputy of the marshal, and that the witness
signed it with others at that time; that he, the witness, became dissatisfied some days before it was approved, and requested to have his name erased, and that the marshal and
his deputy promised to do it; that not being able to get hold
of the bond, he mentioned the subject to the district judge,
and explained to him that he "could not consent to have it
there at all." Suggestion of the judge was that he, the witness, in justice to the other signers of the bond, should see
them and tell them what he wanted, and the witness stated
that in a short time he spoke to all of them except defendant,
Smith, who was then absent, and told them that he wanted
his name erased, and that he was not willing to let it remain
there as one of the sureties. Erasure was made before the
bond was approved, but when, or by whom, the witness did
not know.
II. Theory of the defendant, Smith, was, that he was discharged from all liability on the bond in consequence of the
erasure, and he accordingly wished the court to instruc- the
jury in substance and effict as follows: 1. That if the jutr

Dec.. 1864.]

SMITH V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

believed from the evidence that the name of P. A. Hoyne
was erased from the bond in suit, withoit the knowledge or
consent of the defendant, and that he did not acknowledge
the bond as his, subsequent to such erasure, the jury should
find the issue in his favor. 2. That the law places the burden of proving such consent upon the plaintiffi, and if they
have failed to make such proof they are not entitled to a
verdict. 3. That notice of the erasure to the district judge
who approved the bond was notice to the Government. But
the court refused so to instruct the jury, and the defendant
excepted.
II. Principal question for decision arises upon the exception of the defendant to the refusal of the court to instruct
the jury as requested in the first prayer presented by the
defendant.
Tendency of the evidence plainly was to show that the
person, whose name was erased, signed the bond before or
at the same time with the defendant. Nothing else can be
inferred from his own testimony, in which he states that he
signe.d with others at the time the bond was circulated for
signatures; and his ready acquiescence in the suggestion of
the district judge, that in justice to the other signers he
ought to see them and tell them what he wanted, strongly
favors the same view. Testimony of the district judge also
confirms that theory, and makes it certain that all had
signed before the erasure and before any interview had
taken place between him and the person whose name was
erased. Record does not show who made the erasure, but
the proof is satisfactory that the marshal and his deputy
agreed to do it, and that it remained in the possession of
one of them, until it was presented to the district judge for
approval.
Defendant insists that the erasure from the bond of the
name of one of the sureties after Smith had signed it, and
without his knowledge or consent, and before the approval
of the bond, was sufficient to discharge him from all liability.
On the other hand the plaintiffM, although they concede

230

SMITH V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup

CL

Opinion of the court.

that the erasure was after the defendant had signed the
bond, and that it was done without his knowledge or consent, yet insist, that inasmuch as the erasure was made before the bond was approved by the district judge, it left the
liability of all concerned precisely as it would have stood, if
the person whose name was erased had only promised to sign
and had not fulfilled his engagement.
Proposition as stated may be correct as applied to all the
sureties who subsequently appeared before the district judge,
and acknowledged the bond as altered to be their deed, and
it certainly is correct as to the person whose name was
erased. Liability cannot attach to the person whose name
was erased before the instrument was approved, and all
those who subsequently consented to remain liable, notwithstanding the alteration, are estopped under the circumstances to interpose any such objection. They have waived
the efect which the alteration in the instrument would
otherwise have had, and consented to be bound, and therefore have suffered no injury. Volenti non fit injuria. Granting all this, still it must be borne in mind, that the alteration
in this case was made without the knowledge or consent of
the defendant, and the case shows that he never appeared
before the district judge and acknowledged his signature, or
in any manner ever waived the right to insist that the instrument was not his deed. Materiality of the alteration is
not denied, and the plaintiffs admit that it is apparent on
the face of the instrument, but still they insist that inasmuch
as the marshal, before he enters on the duties of his office,
is required by law to become bound before the district judge
with sufficient sureties for the performance of the conditions, it is clear that the bond is in no manner executed,
until it is presented to the district judge and is by him approved.* Approval, say the counsel, is as essential to its
execution, as is the acknowledgment made in court to a recognizance, and the argument is that no alteration made in
the instrument before such approval, can have the effect ta
1 Stat. at Large, 87.

Dec. 1864.]

SMITH V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

discharge any one of the sureties, unless it be shown that it
was made with the knowledge or consent of the obligees.
Reason for the conclusion, as suggested by the plaintiffs, is
that, where the alteration precedes the approval, the presumption is, that it was made by a stranger, and not by the
party seeking to enforce the obligation.
Support to the proposition, as stated, is attempted to be
drawn from the case of United States v. Linn et al.,* and it
must be confessed that there are expressions in the opinion
of the majority of the court which give some countenance to
that view of the law. Question in that case arose upon the
demurrer of the plaintiffs to the plea of the defendants, and
the judgment of the court was in fact based upon the ground
that the allegations of the plea were insufficient to establish
the defence. Alteration charged in that case was that the
seals had been attached to the signatures after the instrument was signed and before it was delivered, and the allegations of the plea were, that the alteration was made without
the consent, direction, or authority of the surety, but it was
not alleged that it was done without his knowledge, or by whom
it was done.
Referring to those omissions in the plea, the court say,
that in view of those circumstances, it was not an unreasonable inference, that if the plea had disclosed by whom the
alteration was made, it would have appeared that it did not
affect the validity of the instrument. Much stress also was
laid upon the fact, that there was nothing upon the face of
the instrument indicating that it had been altered, or casting
a suspicion upon its validity, and the court held, that the
burden of proving when and by whom the alteration was
made under the state of facts alleged in the plea, was properly cast upon the defendants. But the court admitted
that a party claiming under an instrument, which appears
on its face to have been altered, was bound to explain the
alteration, and show that it had not been improperly made.
Reference was also made by the court, at the same time, to
* 1 Howard, 112.

8MrTI

V.

ITN1TED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

two decided cases as asserting that doctrine, and it is clear
that both the cases cited* fully sustain the position.
General rule is, that where any suspicion is raised as to
the genuineness of an altered instrument, whether it be apparent upon inspection, or is made so by extraneous evidence, the party producing the instrument and claiming
under it, is bound to remove the suspicion by accounting for
the alteration.t Exceptions to the rule undoubtedly arise, as
where the alteration is properly noted in the attestation
clause, or where the alteration is against the interest of the
party deriving title under the instrument; but the case under
consideration obviously falls under the general rule.T Every
material alteration of a written instrument, according to the
old decisions, whether made by a party or by a stranger, was
fttal to its validity if made after execution, and while the instrument was in the possession and under the control of the
party seeking to enforce it, and without the privity of the
party to be affected by the alteration.ยง Grounds of the doctrine, as explained in the early cases and by text writers,
were twofold. First. That of public policy, which dictates
that no man should be permitted to take the chance of committing a fraud without running any risk of losing by the
event in case of detection. Secondly. To insure the identity
of the instrument and prevent the substitution of another
without the privity of the party concerned.11 Courts of justice have not always adhered to that rule, but the decisions
of recent date in the parent country, show that her courts
have returned to the old rule in all its vigor. Judge Story,
in United States v. Spalding,** condemned so much of the rule
* Henman v. Dickinson, 5 Bingham, 188; Taylor v. Mosely, 6 Carringtort & Payne, 273.

t 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, 564.
1 Knight v. Clements, 8 Adolphus & Ellis, 215; Newcomb v. Presbrey,
8 Metcalf, 406.
Pigot's Case, 11 Coke, 27; Master v. Miller, 4 Term, 880.
2 Taylor on Evidence, 1618.
Davidson v. Cooper, 11 Meeson & V elsby, 778; Same v. Same, 13 Id
843; 2 Taylor on Evidence,
1624.
* 2 Mason, 482

Dec. 1864.]

SMITH V. UNITED

STATES.

Opinion of the court.

as holds that a material alteration of a deed by a stranger,
without the privity of the obligor or obligee, avoids the deed,
and the weight of authority in this country is decidedly the
other way. He objected to the rule as repugnant to common sense and justice, because it inflicted on an innocent
party all the losses occasioned by mistake or accident, or by
the wrongful acts of third persons.*
IV. Present case, however, does not depend upon that
rule; nor, indeed, is it necessary to express any opinion
as to what is the true rule upon the subject, except to say
that where the alteration is apparent on the face of the
instrument, the party offering it in evidence and claiming
under it is bound to show that the alteration was made
under such circumstances that it does not affect his right to
recover.t
Defence in this case, as exhibited in the prayer for instruction, was based not only upon the ground that there was a
material alteration in the bond, but also upon the ground
that the defendant was a surety, and, consequently, both
considerations must be kept in view at the same time.
True inquiry, therefore, is, what is the rule to be applied in
a case where it appears that the contract of a surety has been
altered without his knowledge or consent, and where it appears that the effict of the alteration is to augment his liability ? Mr. Burge says, that an alteration in the obligation
or contract, in respect to which a person becomes surety,
extinguishes the obligation, and discharges the surety, unless
he has become, by a subsequent stipulation, a surety for, or
has consented to the contract as altered.1 Same author
says, if there be any variation in the contract made without
the consent of the surety, and which is, in effect, a substitution of a new agreement, although the original agreement
* 2 Parsons on Bills, 574; 1 Greenleaf on Evidence (10th ed.),

567,

p. 749.
f Parsons on Bills, 577; Greenleaf on Evidence (10th ed.), 564; Knight
v. Clements, 8 Adolphus & Ellis, 215; Clifford v. Parker, 2 Manning &
%ranger, 909; Wilde v. Armsby, 6 Cushing, 314.
1 Burge on Suretyship, p. 214.

SMITH V.

UNITED STATES.

[Stil

0'.

Opinion of the court.

may, notwithstanding such variation, be substantially per.
formed, the surety is discharged.*
Authorities are not necessary to show that the alteration,
in this case, was a material one, as it obviously increased
the liability of the defendant; and in case of the default of
the principal and payment by the defendant, diminished his
means of protection by the way of contribution; and the
rule is universal that the alteration of an instrument in a
material point by the party claiming under it, as by inserting or striking out names without the authority or consent
of the other parties concerned, renders the instrument void,
unless subsequently approved or ratified.t
Responsibility of a surety rests upon the validity and
terms of his contract, but when it is changed without his
knowledge or authority, it becomes a new contract, and is
invalid, because it is deficient in the essential element of
consent. Where, after the execution of a bond by the pr'Incipal and the surety, conditioned for the performance by the
former of his duty as collector in certain townships, the
name of another township was added with the consent of
the principal, but without that of the surety, this court held,
in Miller v. Stewart,j that the latter was discharged from all
obligation, because the duties imposed by the instrument in
its altered state were not those for the performance of which
he had made himself responsible, and that the defect could
not be cured by declaring on the condition as it originally
stood. Opinion of the court was given in that case by Judge
Story, and his remarks upon the subject are decisive of
the question under consideration. Indeed, nothing can be
clearer, both upon principle and authority, than the doctrine that the liability of a surety is not to be extended by
implication beyond the terms of his contract. To the extent,
and in the manner, and under the circumstances pointed
out in his obligation, he is bound, and no farther. He has
* Evans v. Whyte, 5 Bingham, 485; Archer v. Hale, 4 Id. 464; Eyre v
Bartrop, 3 Maddock, 221; Bonser v. Cox, 6 Beavan, 110; Archer v. Hud
son, 7 Id. 551.
4- Boston v. Benson, 12 Cushing, 61.
t) Wheaton, 702.

Dec. 1864.-)

SMITH V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

a right to stand upon the very terms of his contract, and if
he does not assent to any variation of it, and a variation is
made, it is fatal.
When the contract of a guarantor or surety is duly ascertained and understood by a fair and liberal construction of
the instrument, the principle, says Chancellor Kent, is well
settled, that the case must be brought strictly within the
guaranty, and the liability of the surety cannot be extended
by implication.* Liability of a surety, say the court, in
Mc Clusky v. cromwel,ft is always strictissimijuris, and cannot
be extended by construction; and this court, in the case of
Leggett et al. v. .umphrey,j adopted the same rule, and explicitly decided that a surety can never be bound beyond the
scope of his engagement.ยง
Argument is unnecessary to show that a variation of the
contract was made in this case, because it is admitted, and
it is equally certain, that the person whose name was erased
is fully discharged, and, consequently, that the plaintiffs
cannot declare upon the original obligation as it stood before
the alteration was made. Neither a court of law or equity,
said this court, in J Micken v. Webb et al.,I will lend its aid to
afifect sureties beyond the plain and necessary import of their
undertaking, nor add a new term or condition to what they
have stipulated. Sureties must be permitted to remain in
precisely the situation they have placed themselves; and it
is no justification or excuse with another for attempting to
change their situation to allege or show that they would be
benefited by such change. Such, say the court, in that case,
is the doctrine in England, in this court, and in the State
courts, and the authorities cited fully justify the remark.
Whenever the contract is varied, whether by giving time to
the principal or by an alteration of the contract, it presents
* 3 Commentaries (10th ed.), 183; Birkhead v. Brown, 6 Hill, 635.
j 1 Kernan, 598.
$ 21 Howard, 76.
United States v. Boyd et al., 15 Peters, 208; Kellog v. Stockton, 29
Pennsylvania State, 460.
I 6 Howard, 296.

SMITH V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Or,

Opinion of the court.

a new cause of action, to which the surety has never given
his assent, and with which, therefore, he has nothing to do.*
Evidence shows that the alteration was made without the
knowledge of the defendant, and there is neither fact nor
circumstance in the case from which to infer any subsequent
assent. Undoubtedly, he knew when he signed the bond
that the law required that it should be approved by the district judge; but his knowledge of the law in that behalf furnishes no ground of inference that he authorized the alteration, or that he consented to be bound in any other manner,
or to any greater extent, or under any other circumstances
than what was expressed in the instrument. Supreme Court
of Massachusetts held, in the case of the Agawarn Bank v.
Sears,t that a surety did not authorize the principal to make
a material alteration in the note, by permitting him to take
it to the bank for discount, and that such an unauthorized
alteration discharged the surety; and where two sureties
signed a probate bond, subject to the approval of the judge
of probate, and it was subsequently altered by the judge of
probate by increasing the penal sum, with the consent of the
principal, but without the knowledge of the sureties, and
was then signed by two additional sureties, who did not
know of the alteration, and then was approved by the judge
of probate, the same court held that the bond, though binding on the principal, was void as to all the sureties. See, also,
.Iowev. Peabody, 2 Gray, 556; Burchfield v. Illoore, 25 English Law and Equity, 123. Analogous as those cases are,
however, they are not as directly in point as that of Marlin
et al. v. Thomas et al.,J which is the latest decision upon the
subject pronounced by this court. Suit in the court below,
in that case, was against the sureties in a replevin bond.
Statement of the case shows that the bond was given by the
defendant in replevin with sureties, to obtain the return of
the property which was the subject of the replevin suit.
Defendant subsequently erased his name from the bond with
the consent of the marshal, but without the knowledge or
" Gash v. Stins-u, 3 Story, 452.

t 4 Gray, 95.

1 24 Howard, 315.

