Dec. 1864.]

BANKS V. OGDEN.
Opinion of the court.

sent down to the circuit from this court it had not been filed
there, nor had the rule been entered in pursuance of its
directions reversing the judgment. The court had not,
therefore, obtained possession of the cause, and this was,
doubtless, the reason for refusing the motion for restitution.
The plaintiffs in error were entitled to restitution both of the
premises and costs on the reversal of the judgment, and the
modern practice is to apply to the court on the coming down
of the mandate from the appellate tribunal and the entry of
the judgment of reversal for a writ of restitution, setting
forth the facts entitling the party to the remedy and giving
notice of the motion to the adverse party. The earlier and
more formal remedy was by scirefacias.*
It seems that the writ of restitution may be granted
though a new venire has been directed. In Smith's Lessee v.
Prabue'sHeirs,t this court held, that a writ of error would
not lie to an order of the Circuit Court awarding a writ of
restitution on motion, and dismissed the case for want of
jurisdiction. The writ in the present case must be dismissed
for the same reason. The order is not considered a final
judgment within the meaning of the Judiciary Act.
DIsMISSAL ACCORDINGLY.

BANKS V. OGDEN.
I. A plat of an addition to a town, not executed, acknowledged, and recorded in conformity with the laws of Illinois, operates in that State as
a dedication of the streets to public use, but not as a conveyance of the
fee of the streets to the municipal corporation.
2. A conveyance, by the proprietor of such an addition, of a block or lot
bounded by a street, conveys the fee of the street to its centre, subject
to the public use.
* Rex v. Leaven, 2 Salkeld, 658; Sympson v. Juxon, Cro. Jac. 699; 2
Sellon's Prac. 387; 2 Tidd's do. 1033, 1188; Safford v. Slevens, 2 Wendell, 164; Close v. Stuart, 4 Id. 95; Smith's Lessee v. Trabue's Heirs, 9
Peters, 4; Jackson v. Hasbrouk, 5 Johnson, 366; Cassel v. Duncan', 2 Sergeant & 1lawlc, 57 - Russel v. Gray, 6 Id. 208; Ranck v. Backer, 13 Id. 41.
t 9 Peters, 4.

58

BANKS V. OGDEN.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.
B. When a street of such an addition is bounded on one side by Lake Michigan, the owner of the block on the otlier side takes only to the centre;
while the fee of the half bounded by the lake remains in the proprietor,
subject to the easement.
4. W'hen the lake boundary so limits the street as to reduce it to less than
half its regular width, the street so reduced must still be divided by its
centre line between the grantee of the lot bounded by it and the original
proprietor.
5. Accretion by alluvion upon a street thus bounded will belong to the original proprietor, in whom, subject to the public easement, the fee of
the half next the lake remains.
6. The limitation of the 8th section of the bankrupt act of 1841 does not
apply to suits by assignees or their grantees for the recovery of real
estate until after two years from the taking of adverse possession.

Tuis was an ejectment brought to December Term, 1859,
in the Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois, to
recover a lot of ground, A A, formed by accretion on the
western shore of Lake Michigan. The case was thus:
Kinzie, being owner in fee of a fractional section of land
bounded on the east by the said lake, and lying immediately
north of the original town of Chicago, made a subdivision
of it in 1833, which he called Kinzie's addition, and deposited a plat of it in the office of the county recorder, where
it was recorded in February, 1834: though not in accordance with certain statutes of Illinois, which, it was contended in the argument, give an effect to plats properly
made, acknowledged, and recorded, that changes the rule
of the common law regarding the streets on which the lots
are sold.
The north and south street of the subdivision nearest the
lake was called Sand Street; the east and west street nearest
the north line of the fraction was named Superior Street.
The waters of the lake limited Sand Street on the north by
an oblique line extending from a point on its eastern side,
about a hundred feet below, to a point on its western side
about a hundred feet above Superior Street; as indicated on
the diagram opposite. The northeastern block of the subdivision, numbered 54, was bounded, on its eastern side, in
part by Sand Street Lnd in part by the lake. Sand Street,
therefore, terminated in a small triangular piece of land,

Dec. 1864.']

BANKS

V.

OGDEN.

Diagram.

BLOCK

A

SUPE

Ui2

66 feet
wide.

A

BANKS V.

OGDEN.

[Sul). CIL,

Statement of the case.

b, c, d, between the lake and Block 54. This triangle was less
than thirty-three feet wide at its lower or southern end, and
diminished to a point at its northern extremity. Upon
this triangle, distinctly shown by the plat, new land was
formed in 1844-'5-the date must be observed-by accretion;
and extended eastwardly, in the direction of the dotted lines,
more than two hundred feet. The question was, to whom
did this new land belong?
In 1842, Kinzie had been declared a bankrupt under the
bankrupt act of 1841, and his whole property passed of course
by operation of law to his assignee.
Under this title the assignee claimed, subject to public use
as a street, the eastern half of the triangle, and the newlyformed land as accretion. Acting upon this claim he sold,
under petition and order of the District Court, made in
1857, part of the accretion, being the land in controversy,
to one Sutherland, who conveyed to Banks, plaintiff in
the ejectment. Of course this newly-formed land had not
been included in the assignee's inventory of the bankrupt's
effiects.
On the other hand, Ogden, the defendant, deriving title
by regular conveyance in 1838 from Kinzie, to that part of
Block 54 to which the triangle was adjacent, conceived that
the fee of the whole triangle, subject to the public use,
passed to him with the land bounded by it. His theory was,
that Sand Street, which was sixty-six feet wide below its
meeting with the lake, continued sixty-six feet wide to its
northern termination, and that the whole triangle being
everywhere less than thirty-three feet wide, was west of the
middle line of the street, and therefore belonged to him as
owner of the adjoining land. As the legal result of these
propositions he claimed the whole accretion, as formed upon
land of which he held the fee.
It is necessary here to state that the bankrupt act, under
which Banks, the plaintiff, claimed, enacts, by its eighth
section, that "no suit at law, or in equity, shall, in any case,
be maintained by or against the assignee of the bankrupt,
touching any property or rights of property of the bank-

Dec. 1864.]

BANKS V. OGDEN.
Argument for the defendant.

rupt, transferable to or vested in him, in any court whatever,
unless the same be brought within two years of the declaration of bankruptcy, or after the cause of suit shall have first
accrued." At what date Ogden, the defendant, went into possession, did not appear. The bankrupt act (ยง 10) also enacts
that all proceedings in bankruptcy shall, if practicable, be
brought to a close by the court within two years after a
decree.
Upon this case the court below instructed the jury that
the law was for the defendant; and, judgment having been
so entered after verdict, the case was now before the court
on error.
Mr. Fuller,for Ogden, defendant below and in error.
1. The first question is, whether or not Kinzie had any
title remaining in him to any land east of Block 54, after
making and recording the plat of Kinzie's addition, and the
conveyance of 1833?
By making and recording the plat, Kinzie dedicated all
the land which there then was in front of the block; and,
so far as it sufficed to make a street, to public use, and as
the land increased, by accretion or otherwise, the public was
entitled to extend the street in a line with that part of it
south of this block. "Where a city is laid out with streets
running to the water," says a California case,* "such streets
should be held to continue on to the high water, if the city
front is afterwards filled in, or the space enlarged by accretion or otherwise. Any other doctrine would be destructive
of the interests of commercial communities." The curved
line on Kinzie's plat, showing the course of the lake opposite
to the block, was not meant to declare its boundary in all
time on that side. It meant simply to show that along that
line was the then course of the water; that there was where
the lake came, and to prevent purchasers from supposing
that the street held good for its original width of sixty-six
reet below or southward. If it was washed away after that,
* Wood -. SAn

Francisco, 4 Ca1iforniu, 194.

-BANKS V.

OGDEN.

[Sup. 01

Argument for the defendant.

it was the purchaser's loss. If it was extended by accretion,
his gain. Had a street of full width been there, it would
have carried the grant to the middle; but, before the middle
was reached, the granted premises touched the waters of the
lake; and the purchaser, like Kinzie himself had been, became riparian owner, and entitled to the privileges of such
ownership,-one of which is that above stated, of having the
whole road.
Independently of this he may rely on the common law
principle of ad mediumfilum, or to the dividing line. The
land in front of Block 54, at its widest part, did not suffice
to make one-half the width of the street when the grant of
the lot was made; and the conveyance of the block invested
the purchaser with the fee, not only of the block itself, but
of all the land to the water's edge. "As between grantor
and grantee," says a recent and leading case in New
York,* "the conveyance of a lot bounded upon a street
in a city, carries the land to the centre of the street. There
is no difference in this respect between the streets of a
city and country highways." This case overrules all the
preceding ones in :New York which had been supposed to
establish a different rule. There is, indeed, no doubt-notwithstanding several dicta and some decisions to the contrary-that the rule, in the broad and imperative way in
which it is above asserted-is now rapidly becoming-has in
fact become the rule of our courts. They are disposed to
regard the matter not as one of intention or of construction
at all, but as one of policy; and as in Paul v. Carver,t to
carry the grant to the middle line, in spite of words limiting
it in the clearest way to the edge.1 And this is reason; for,
whether the new ground arise from the abandonment of a
former street, or from the creation of new soil by accretion,
there is no reason for giving it to the old owner. In neither
case did he ever expect to have it. In the first he has been
* Bissell v. The New York Railroad Co., 23 New York, 61.

t

26 Pennsylvania State, 223.
1 See Dovaston v. Payne, 2 Smith's Leading Cases, 199*, 6th edition, and
!he English .adAmerici iqotes to thfat cge,

Dec. 1864.]

BANxs v. OGDEN.
Argument for the defendant.

paid for it in the price of the adjoining lots made of higher
price by being on the street; in the latter he has parted, as
he supposed, with every vestige of soil, and should not be
allowed to block up and intercept light and view-in this
case a view upon a noble lake, itself a matter of value to
any residence-by building upon soil so accidentally and
unexpectedly obtained, and so to injure persons who supposed, as he did, that they had acquired ownership to the
water's edge. The purchaser is therefore a riparian owner,
and is entitled, as such proprietor, to the accretions Wihich
have been formed in front of the block. "The question,"
says this court, in one case,* "is well settled at common
law, that the person whose land is bounded by a stream of
water, which changes its course gradually, by alluvial formations, shall still hold by the same boundary, including the
accumulated soil. No other rule can be applied on just principles. Every proprietor whose land is thus bounded is subject to loss, by the same means which may add to his territory; and as he is without remedy for his loss in this way,
he cannot be held accountable for his gain." This rule was
also tacitly recognized in Jones et al. v. Johnston;t Johnston
v. Jones et al.,J here as applicable to accretions formed on
Lake Michigan, and at almost the precise place where the
accretions in question have been formed. The same rule
has elsewhere been held applicable to the Detroit River.ยง
To the same effect is Seaman v. Smith.j
That this right to the accretion is not divested by the intervention of a public highway between the riparian estate
and the water-course, was decided by the Supreme Court of
Louisiana; a region where, from the nature of their soil,
this whole subject of accretion and diminution is specially
studied and most wisely settled in the well-considered case
of .Morganv. Livingston. "If there be a public road between
a field and the river," says that case, "still that which is
* New Orleans v.United States, 10 Peters 717.

t 18 Howard, 150.
Lorman v. Benson, 8 Michigan, 18.
1 Louisiana Condensed Reports, 451.

1 1 Black, 209.
II 24 Illinois, 528.

64

BANKS V. OGDEN.

LUul ,. Ut.

Argument for the defendant.

made by alluvion accrues to the field." This case was decided in 1819. In 1841 the same question came before the
same court in the case of 17unicipality v. The Orleans Gotton Press;* and the court cited the language used in the
former case, with approval, as a correct statement of the law
on this subject. It added further, "that the intervention of
a public road between the front tract and the river does not
prevent accretion by alluvion, because the road and the levee
themselves belong to the front proprietors, subject to the
public use;" and the court, in summing up the points intended to be decided, say:
"We are of opinion that urban property fronting on a watercourse is entitled to alluvion, as well as rural estates; and that
cities can acquire jure aluvionis only in virtue of a title which
would constitute them front proprietors. That the defendants
must oe considered as owning down to the road last laid out,
and that the intervention of the road does not in law prevent
their being regarded as front proprietors, and entitled to any
alluvion which now exists or may hereafter be formed between
the levee and the water, subject to the public use under the
administration of the municipal authorities."
The language first quoted is descriptive of the present
case, and that cited last states the rule which should be
applied. The principles established by these cases have
been affirmed in the later ones.t
The right to accretion is one that belongs to the principal
estate, not to the person of the owner, nor to the proprietor
of the easement. It does not belong to the latter, because he
enjoys a benefit in another man's property or estate, and the
loss or gain of that estate is not his, but the owner's. "The
right to future alluvion," says one of the cases cited by us,
"is inherent in the property itself, and forms an essential
attribute of it, resulting from natural law in consequence of
the local situation of the land, just as much as the natural
* 18 Louisiana, 122.

- -Mrs. Kennedy v. Municipality No. 2, 10 Louisiana Annual, 54, A.D
1855; Remy v. The Second Municipality, 11 Id. 161, A.D. 1856; Barrett
v. New Orleans, 13 Id. 105, A.D. 1858.

Dec. 1864.]

BANKS V.

OGDEN.

Argument for the defendant.

fruits of a tree belong to the owner of the land; and that
such an attempt to transfer from the owner of the land to
the city the future increase by alluvion, would be as legally
absurd as if the legislature had declared, that after the incorporation of the city, the fruits of all the orange trees within
its limits should belong thereafter to the city, and not to the
owners of the orchards and gardens."*
It cannot be contended, we think, that the medium flum
was to the middle of the triangle only. Such a view would
be unreasonable. It would be a view first of all extremely
technical. It would decide, moreover, that because the purchaser ot Block 54 had less than anybody else, less than he
needed for the proper enjoyment of his lot, less than was
usual and natural, he should have but haf of that. Is it
possible to suppose that Kinzie meant to reserve one-half the
triangle? Of what use could such a piece of ground be to
him? Of what necessity was it not sure to prove to the
purchaser? A full street is supposed to be equally divided,
because the owner on each side needs half; but here there was
no owner on the east or lake side. The broad and fathom.
less Michigan was there. Ownership was not predicable of
that side at all, and was predicable of the other side only.
Had the road been full sixty-six feet wide, yet we might say
that at common law, even then coming to the water's edge,
it was a case where the owner would take it all. In grants
on tidal waters the grant is almost universally to low water
mark; and this for the obvious reason that, if this mark
change, the purchaser may still have as near as possible what
was sold and what was bought. By analogy we may fairly
contend that here the purchase is to the water's edge, even
had the street been full, there being nothing to be sold
beyond it. That seems to be the doctrine of the Louisiana
case; specially, as we have said, worthy of respect in this
branch of law.
The case does not show that Kinzie ever asserted or supposed he had any interest left after his deed of 1833. Years
* Municipa'ity No 2 v. Orleans Cotton Press, 18 Louisiana Annual, 240.
V64 . i 1.

5

66

BANKS V. OGDEN.

[Sup. OC.

Argument for the defendant.

after he had parted with his interest there, the accretion
began to form. It was not inventoried among the assets ol
his bankrupt estate, because it did not then exist. Fifteen
years after that, a "prowling assignee" asks for, and obtains,
an order to sell the demanded premises, which had no existence, either in fact or law, until after Kinzie had been
declared a bankrupt, and when he was no longer the owner
of the principal estate, or any part of it, to which the right
to accretions could attach. The assignee takes no greater
interest than the bankrupt had in the estate assigned to him,
and we cannot well see how a right to accretions, which is
an incident to the principal estate, can arise or exist in favor
of one who had no such estate.
2. Kinzie was declared a bankrupt in 1842, under the act
of August 19, 1841. The petition and order for a sale of
the demanded premises were made in 1857. If any interest
or estate was left in Kinzie, after his conveyance of 1833, his
assignee, and those claiming under him, are barred from
maintaining this suit by the 8th section of the bankrupt act.
This, like all limitation laws, was intended as a "statute of
repose," and to insure a prompt settlement of the bankrupt
estate; and the public good requires that full effect be given
to it by the courts.
It is a practice too common all over the country for assignees to make sales of real and pretended interests in the
bankrupt estate down to the present time, and for the purchasers to bring suits upon the titles thus acquired. It cannot be pretended that this is done for the benefit of the creditors. It is now more than twenty years since that law - as
enacted and repealed, and the interests of the creditors of
the bankrupts have, in most cases, pa,,sed away, and these
proceedings are instituted obviously for speculating and litigious purposes. They belong to the class of suits described
by Lord Bacon as "contentious suits," which that great
judge declares " ought to be spewed out as the surfeit of
courts."* The act, in express terms, limits the right of the
* Essay of Judicature.

Dec. 18,64.]

BANKS V. OGDEN.
Opinion of the court.

assignee to bring any suit; at law or in equity, against any
person claiming an adverse interest touching the property,
and rights of property, assigned to him, to two years after
the declaration and decree of bankruptcy, or after the cause
of suit shall first have accrued. The present cause of action
(ifthere is any) arose fifteen years before the petition for the
sale of the demanded premises was filed. The assignee
acquired title to them at the date of the assignment, or he
never did; and if his right was barred, so was that of his
grantee, for it was a limitation against the right to recover
these premises, and he could transfer no greater right than
he had. This point has been decided in New York.*
Mr. Wills, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court,
and, after stating facts, proceeded as follows:
The rule governing additions made to land, bounded by a
river, lake, or sea, has been much discussed and variously
settled by usage and by positive law. Almost all jurists and
legislators, however, both ancient and modern, have agreed
that the owner of the land, thus bounded, is entitled to these
additions. By some, the rule has been vindicated on the
principle of natural justice, that he who sustains the burden
of losses and of repairs, imposed by the contiguity of waters,
ought to receive whatever benefits they may bring by accretion; by others, it is derived from the principle of public
policy, that it is the interest of the community that all land
should have an owner, and most convenient, that insensible
additions to the shore should follow the title to the shore
itself.
There is no question in this case that the accretion from
Lake Michigan belongs to the proprietor of land bounded
by the lake. The controversy turns on ownership.
In deciding this controversy, we derive no important aid
from the statutes of Illinois, referred to in the argument.
* Cleveland - Boerem et al., 24 New York, 613, S. C., 27 Barbour, 252

BANKS

V.

OGDEN.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

The plat of Kinzie does not appear to have been executed,
acknowledged, and recorded, in conformity with either of
them.* It operated, therefore, only as a dedication; and the
law applicable to dedications must control our judgment.
It is a familiar principle of that law, that a grant of land
bordering on a road or river, carries the title to the centre
of the river or road, unless the terms or circumstances of
the grant indicate a limitation of its extent by the exterior
lines. There is indeed a passage in one of the judgments of
the Supreme Court of Illinois which, if taken literally, would
exclude grantees of lots in towns and cities from any interest
whatever in the streets beyond the common use. The court
said: "In the case of a valid plat," that is, a plat duly executed, acknowledged, and recorded, "the title to the ground
set apart for public purposes is held by, the corporation for
the use and benefit of the public; in the case of a dedication
by a different mode the fee continues in the proprietor, burdened with the public easement."t This rule would limit
the grantee of Block 54 to the lines of the block, and he
would take nothing in Sand Street; but the propositions
quoted were not essential to the decision of the question
before the court, and there are other casest which seem to
warrant a belief that when the operation of an ordinary dedication shall come directly before that tribunal, it will not
apply any other principle to its construction than that generally recognized.
We shall assume, therefore, that the owner of the southeast
part of Block 54 was the owner of the adjacent part of Sand
Street to its centre. But adjacent to that part of the block,
Sand Street had been reduced, as the plat clearly shows, to
the small triangle already described; and it must follow that
it was to the centre line of the street thus reduced that the

defendant acquired title. IHe took, subject to the public
use, the westerly half of the triangle and no more.
But Kinzie was the original owner of the whole fractional
* Jones v. Johnson, 18 Howard, 153.

f Manly v. Gibson, 13 Illinois, 312.
Cana" Trustees v. Havens, 11 Illinois, 557; Waugh v. Leech, 28 Id

488.

Dec. 1864.]

BANIS V. OCIDEN.
Opinion of the court.

section. He retained every part of which he did not divest
himself by deed or dedication. By the dedication of Sand
Street, he gave to the public the use and only the use of the
land within the artificial and natural lines marked on the
plat. By the conveyance of Block 54 west of the street, he
conveyed the fee of Sand Street within those lines to its
centre. On the east side of the street, opposite that block,
he conveyed nothing, for he had nothing to convey. The
fee, therefore, of the eastern half of the triangle which there
formed the street, remained in him. In the words of the
Sulpreme Court of Illinois, clearly just when applied to the
land in question, "the fee continued in the proprietor, subject to the easement."
Upon Kinzie's bankruptcy the fee of this strip of land
passed to the assignee. It was about this time, or shortly
afterwards, that the alluvion began to form upon it, and
continued to increase until the commencement of the suit
below. The title to the accretion, thus made, followed the
title to the land and vested in the assignee.
It is unnecessary to consider the effect of the accretion,
under the dedication, upon the width of the street; for,
whatever that effect may have been, the fee of the east half
and of the accretion beyond the true width, whatever that
width was, remained constantly in Kinzie or -the assignee.
A part, therefore, of the bankrupt's estate remained unsold
when the order of sale, under which the plaintiff in error
claims, was made by the District Court; and the only remaining inquiry is, whether that order was lawfully made.
The eighth section of the bankrupt act of 1841 limited
suits concerning the estate of the bankrupt by assignees
against persons claiming adversely, and by such persons
against assignees, to two years after decree of bankruptcy or
first accrual of cause of suit. There is no express limitation
upon sales, nor any limitation upon any action other than
suits, by the assignee, except a general requirement in the
tenth section, that all proceedings shall, if practicable, be
brought to a close by the court within two years after de.
erec. We are not satisfied lh::t tl limitation in the eighth

BROOKS V. MARTIN.

[Sul). Ct.

Opinion of the court.

section can be applied to sales of real estate made by assignees under orders of district courts having general jurisdiction of proceedings in bankruptcy. But it is not necessary now to pass upon this point. The limitation certainly
could not affect any suit, the cause of which accrued from
an adverse possession taken after the bankruptcy, until the
expiration of two years from the taking of such possession;
and there is nothing in the record which shows when the
adverse possession relied on by the defendant in error commenced, and therefore nothing which warrants the application of the limitation to tLe petition for the order of sale.
We think the court below erred in instructing the jury
that the defendant in error, upon the case made, was entitled
to their verdict. Its judgment must therefore be reversed,
and the cause remanded with directions to issue a
NEw VENIRE.

BROOKS V.

MARTIN.

1. After a partnership contract confessedly against public policy has been
carried out, and money contributed by one of the partners has passed
into other forms,-the results of the contemplated operation completed,a partner, in whose hands the profits are, cannot refuse to account for
and divide them on the ground of the illegal character of the original
contract.
2. Where one partner, who is in sound health, is made sole agent of the
partnership by another, who is not, and who relies on him wholly for
true accounts, and the party thus made agent manages the business at
a distance from the other, communicating to him no information, the
relation of partners, whatever it may be in general, becomes fiduciary,
and the law governing such relations applies.
MARTIN filed a bill in equity in the Federal Court of Wisconsin to set aside a contract of sale which he had made to
Brooks of his interest in a partnership venture, and for an
account and division of the profits; the ground of the prayer
being his own alleged embarrassed condition at the time of
the sale; his ignorance of the partnership business; fraud
on the part of the defendant, Brooks; concealment by

Brooks of what he knew; misrepresentation in what tie

