106

HumISToN v. STAINTHORP.

[Sup. Gt.

Statement of the case.

defendants.

The facts are, that, from the return of the

execution satisfied, the Federal court had no control over
the parties. The case between the plaintifs in error against
Griggs had been decided, the money made on the execution,
and the debt paid.
Upon the facts of the case, as they appear in the record,
we have determined that no one of the questions described
in the 28th section of the Judiciary Act necessarily arose or
was decided by the Supreme Court of Minnesota. We think
it unnecessary to particularize such decided questions as
will give jurisdiction to this court under that act. We
therefore dismiss the writ of error to the Supreme Court oi
Minnesota.
DISmISSAL ACCORDINGLY.

HUMISTON V. STAINTHORP.
A decree in chancery, awarding to a patentee a permanent injunction, and
for an account of gains and profits, and that the cause be referred to a
master to take and state the amount, and to report to the court, is not
a final decree, within the meaning of the act of Congress allowing an

appeal on a final decree to this court.
STAINTHORP

and Seguine had filed a bill in the Circuit

Court for the Northern District of New York, against
llumiston, for infringing a patent for moulding candles;

and had obtained a decree against him.
The decree was that the complainants were entitled to a
permanent injunction, and for an account of gains and profits,
and that the cause be referred to a master to take and state the
amount and report to the court.
A motion was now made to dismiss the cause for want of
jurisdiction.
.iMr. Gifford, in favor of the motion of dismissal: An appeali
lies only from a final decree: this is an interlocutory one.

Dec. 1864.]

ecUMIISTON V. STAINTHORP.
Argument in favor of the motion.

A final decree in equity is one which finally decides and
disposes of the whole merits of the case, and reserves no
questions or directions for the future judgment of the court
from which an appeal could be taken. This court will not
allow a case to be divided up into a plurality of appeals.
In The Palmyra,* restitution with costs and damages was
decreed, and an appeal taken before the damages had been
assessed. The court held that the decree was not final, and
dismissed it. They say, "The decree of the Circuit Court
was not final in the sense of the act of Congress. The
damages remain undisposed of, and an appeal may still lie
upon that part of the decree awarding damages."
The case of Barnard et al. v. Gibson,t was one on letters
patent The decree referred it to a master to ascertain and
report the damages. An appeal was taken; a motion made
to dismiss it, and the motion was granted. The court say,
"The decree in the case under consideration is not final
within the decisions of the court. The injunction prayed
for was made perpetual, but there was a reference to a master to ascertain the damages by reason of the infringement"
In Perlins v. Fourniquet,J the decree was that the complainant was entitled to two-sevenths of certain property,
and referred it to a master to take and report an account of
it, reserving all other questions until the coming in of the
master's report. It was held that this was not a final decree
on which an appeal could be taken.
In Pulliam et al. v. Christian,§the decree set aside a deed
and directed an account from trustees. This was held not
to be a final decree, and an appeal from it was dismissed.
In Craigheadet al. v. Wilson,j a bill was filed claiming property as heirs. A decree was made, which, among other
things, referred it to a master to take an account. The court
held that this decree was interlocutory, and that no final decree could be made until after the coming in of the master's
report, and the appeal was dismissed.
* 10 Wheaton, 502.

6 Id. 209.

t 7 Howard, 650.
ii 18 Id. 199.

$ 6 Id. 206.

-UMISTON

V.

STAINTHORP.

[Sul). Ct

Argument against the motion.

In Crawford v. Points,* a decree was. made directing an
account. An appeal was taken before the accounting. On
a motion to dismiss the appeal, the court say, "The decree
is not final.

.

. An account is directed to be taken of the

rents and profits, &c. While these things remain to be done,
the decree is not final, and no appeal from it would lie to
this court."
In Beebe et al. v. Bussellt the court thus distinguishes between the two sorts of decrees: "A decree is understood to
be interlocutory whenever an inquiry as to matter of law or
fact is directed, preparatory to a final decision. When a decree finally decides and disposes of the whole merits of the
cause, and reserves no further questions or directions for the
future judgment of the court, so that it will not be necessary
to bring the cause again before the court for its final decision, it is a final decree."
These cases seem conclusive.
Mr. NAorton, contra.
I. The precise question whether an appeal may be taken
from such a decree does not seem to have arisen in this
court, but the principles which have controlled the decisions
concerning appeals, establish the right of appeal from the
decree herein.
In Bay v. Law,J it was held (Marshall, C. J.), "That a decree for a sale under a mortgage is such a final decree as
may be appealed from," although in such cases there follows
a decree confirming the sale, and it may be for execution for
a deficiency. That case was followed in Whiting v. Bank oJ
United States,§ the court saying, in reference thereto, "This
decision must have been made upon the general ground that
a decree, final upon the merits of the controversy between
the parties, is a decree upon which a bill of review would
lie, without and.independent of any ulterior proceedings."
In Forgay v. Gonrad,I where the decree set aside as void
* 13 Howard, 11.

13 Peters, 6.

t 19 Id. 285.
116 Howard, 201.

8 Cranch, 179

Dec. 1864.]

llUMISTON v.

STAINTHORP.

109

Argument against the motion.

certain deeds of lands and slaves, and directed an account
of profits, and expressly retained a part of the bill for further decree, it was held that an appeal from same was well
taken.
In Barnardv. Gibson,* relied on by the other side, where
the decree was for an injunction and an account of profits,
and expressly reserved "the question of costs and all other
questions" not specifically passed upon, it was held that from
such decree an appeal would not lie; and in that case this
court did not undertake to reverse its former decisions, but
to abide thereby.
Now the decree in this case, though different from that in
either of the cases thus referred to, is much nearer that in
Forgay v. Conrad than the one in Barnardv. Gibson, for it
fully disposes of the merits, without reserving any question
whatever, and leaves nothing uncompleted but an accounting, like that in Forgay v. Conrad; and upon the principle
established in those cases, the appeal was well taken. That
principle is, that whenever a decree decides the merits of the
controversy, it is final, for the purposes of an appeal, though
ulterior proceedings have to be had and a further or additional decree yet remains to be made. Thus in Forgay v.
Conrad, the court say of the decree therein, "undoubtedly
it is not final, in the strict technical sense of the term," and
then adopting a wider view of the act of Congress, lay down
the principle that when a decree decides the right in controversy, and permits it to be carried into execution, it is pro
tanto, final for the purposes of an appeal. And the only way
of reconciling Barnard v. Gibson with that case is, that it
reserved the question of costs and other questions.
H. An appeal from such a decree as this is, should be
allowed:
1st. Because it disposes of the entire merits, and leaves
nothing but a mere accounting.
2d. Because the court below has power to render and
enforce such a decree (and the practice of rendering an.i
* 7 Howard, 653.

MURRAY V. LARDNER.

[sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

enforcing such decrees has become very general), and unless
an appeal be allowed therefrom, the right of appeal tc this
court is virtually annulled in this class of cases, where the
decree is for the complainant.
8d. Because the accounting in such cases is necessarily
tedious and expensive, and should therefore be postponed
until the merits are finally disposed of; for if the decree be
reversed the accounting becomes a needless waste of time
and money, and even if it be modified, as to the nature or
extent of the patent or of the infringement of same, such
accounting becomes almost equally useless.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court,
and after stating the case said:
The decree is not final within the act of Congress providing for appeals to this court, according to a long and wellsettled class of cases, some of which we only need refer to in
disposing of the case.*
MITONg GRANTED.

MURRAY

V. LARDNER.

Coupon bonds, of the ordinary kind, payable to bearer, pass by delivery.
And a purchaser of them, in good faith, is unaffected by want of title
in the vendor. The burden of proof, on a question of such faith, lies
on the party who assails the possession. Gill v. Cabit (3 Barnewall &
Cresswell, 466), denied; Goodman v. Harvey (4 Adolphus & Ellis, 870),
approved; Goodman v. Simonds (20 Howard, 452), affirmed.
LARDNER was the owner of three bonds of the Camden
and Amboy Railroad Company, for $1000 each. They were
coupon bonds of the ordinary kind, and payable to bearer.
He resided in the country, about nine miles from Pbiladelphia, but had an office in that city, where he went to transact
business two days in the week, Wednesdays and Saturdays
He kept the bonds in a fire-proof in this office.
* The Palmyra, 10 Wheaton, 502; Barnard et al. v. Gibson, 7 Howard
C-50; Crawford v. Points, 13 Id. 11; Craighead v. Wilson, 18 Id. 199
Ucebe et al. v. Russell. 19 Id. 283.

