Dec. 1863.] BIoNsoN v. LA

CROSSE RAILROAD CO.

283

Statement of the case.

BRONSON ET AL. V. LA CROSSE AND MILWAUKIE RAILROAD
COMPANY ET AL.*
I. Stockholders of a corporation, who have been allowed to put in answers
in the name of a corporation, cannot be regarded as answering for the
corporation itself. In a special case, however, where there is an allegation that the diiectors fraudulently refused to attend to the interests
of the corporation, a court of equity will, in its discretion, allow a stockholder to become a party defendant, for the purpose of protectingfrom unfounded and illegal claims against the company-his own interest and the interest of such other stockholders as choose to join him in
the defence.
2. The filing of a cross-bill on a petition without the leave of the court is an
irregularity, and such cross-bill may be properly set aside.
S. Judgments recovered against a corporation in Wisconsin, after the date
of a mortgage by it, are discharged by a foreclosure of the mortgage.
4. Until the filing of his bill of foreclosure and the appointment of a receiver, a mortgagee has no concern or responsibility for or in the dealings of a mortgagor with third parties, such as confessing judgment,
and leasing its property subject to the terms of the mortgage.
6. Where a mortgage is made in express terms subject to certain bonds
secured by prior mortgage, these bonds being negotiable in form, and
having in fact passed into circulation before such former mortgage was
given, the junior mortgagees, and all parties claiming und'r them, are
estopped from denying the amount or the validity of such bonds so
secured, if in the bands of bonfide holders. Parties holding negotiable
instruments are presumed to hold them for full value, and whether such
instruments are bought at par or below it, they are, generally speaking,
to be paid in full, when in the hands of bonO fide holders, for value. If
meant to be impeached, they must be impeached by specific allegations
distinctly proved.
6. A court of equity, where a mortgage authorizes the payment of the
expenses of the mortgagee, may pay, out of funds in his hands, the
taxed costs, and also such counsel fees in behalf of the complainants as,
in the discretion of the court, it may seem right to allow.
BRONSON and Souter filed their bill in the Circuit Court
for the District of Wisconsin, to foreclose a mortgage made
on the 17th August, 1857, by the La Crosse and Milwaukie
Railroad Company, a corporation of Wisconsin, covering a
ponion of a railroad made by the said company in that
* This case was decided at the last term.

284

BRoNsoN t%LA CROSSE RAILROAD Co.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

State,-the portion being between Milwaukie and Portage
City, about ninety-five miles, and called the Eastern Division.* The mortgage was made to the said Bronson and
Souter as trustees, to secure the payment of bonds for one
million of dollars issued by the company. These bonds were
payable to bearer in New York, with interest at eight per
cent., payable semi-annually. They were registered and
countersigned by the trustees, and delivered to the company,
and in the autumn of 1859 had been negotiated and put into
circulation. They were'for $1000 each.
The bill alleged that default had been made in the payment of interest, and prayed that the La Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad Company, and all other persons claiming
under it, might be decreed to deliver to them, B. and S., or
to their agents, and to put them into possession of, the railroad, with its appurtenances; and that all the income of the
road might be applied to the payment of the moneys due,
and to become due, on the mortgage or bonds; and that
the road, with its rolling stock and franchises, might be sold,
&c.; and that, pending the proceedings, a receiver might be
appointed. The bill was filed December 9th, 1859.
An order pro confesso was entered against the company.
Certain other parties, however, besides the La Crosse and
Milwaukie Railroad Company, were made parties to this
bill.
1. The Milwaukie and Minnesota Railroad Company. This
company had been organized upon a sale of the La Crosse
and Milwaukie Railroad, just named, under a third mortgage, which had been made to one Barnes, as trustee, by the
debtor company, junior to that of the complainants. This
Barnes mortgage, with a supplement to it, - as made o
secure an issue of bonds to the amount of TWO millions of
dollars. The mortgage and supplenient, by its terms, was
made subject to certain incumbrances, and, among them,
"to the bonds secured by a second mortgage on the -Eastern_Divi.
* For an understanding of the position of this road, its Eastern Di vision
te., see diagram, infra, p. 610.

Deu. 1863.]

BONSON V. LA CROSSE RAILROAD CO.

28b

Statement of the case.

sion of the road to the amount of one million of dollars ;" the
mortgage, to wit, now sought to be foreclosed. They also
had on their back the indorsement thus:
"State of Wisconsin. La Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad Company, 8d
mortgage sinking fund bond, seven per cent., &c. ;" subject, among other
things, "to a 2d mortgage on the same line of road of $1,000,000."

This company did not appear to the bill, but permitted it
io be taken as confessed.
2. Certain private individuals-Zebre Howard, also Graham and Scott-were made defendants; the bill alleging
that they had, or claimed to have, some interest in the
mortgaged premises.
Howard answered the bill, setting forth that, on the 1st
of May, 1858, he obtained a judgment against the debtor
company, in the Circuit Court of Milwaukie County, for
$25,586.78; and that this judgment remaining unpaid, he
commenced suit thereon in the District Court of the United
States, and recovered judgment in that court November
28th, 1859, for $16,379.86.*
Graham and Scott also answered the bill, setting up ajudgment in their favor, recovered in the said District Court in
December, 1859, for $41,008.86, founded on two former judgments in their favor in the State court.
The answer of Howard, and that of Graham and Scott,
asserted that these judgments, respectively, were liens upon
the mortgaged premises; and set forth various matters !n
defence against the relief prayed for by the complainants.
Replications were filed to both these answers. No proof
was made of these judgments other than that of their being
included in a list of judgments appended to the report of a
master in the case.
After the time bad expired within which the Milwaukie
and Minnesota Railroad Cimpany ought to have answered,
but before an order had been entered taking the bill against
them pro confesso, one J. S. Rockwell, a stockholder of the
There seemed to be some confusion about these dates, &c., not perfectly
-4nderstood by the reporter.

286

BRONSON v. LA CROssE] RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ca.

iaid company, presented to the court his petition, charging
collusion between the complainants or their agents and one
Russell Sage, President of the said Milwaukie and Minnesota Company, to secure a foreclosure and sale in their
cause, for the purpose of extinguishing the rights of the said
Milwaukie and Minnesota Company, which was alleged to
be the owner of the equity of redemption of the mortgaged
premises; and that the President of the said last-named
company, although requested by its stockholders, had declined to make any defence in this cause. The petition
prayed leave to defend the bill, "on the part of said company,
as a defendant therein, and to be let in and allowed to make
such defence as he may be advised is proper or necessary,
in the place of said company, as a party defendant to said
action, and for a reasonable time to prepare and file his
answer." Upon this petition, the court "ordered that the
said Rockwell be, and hereby is, allowed to make defence
to this bill in the name of said Milwaukie and Minnesota
Railroad Company, to the same extent as -the said company,
could do, under the rules and practice of this court." In
pursuance of this order, Rockwell filed his answer, entitled
"The separate answer of J. S. Rockwell, who, by the order
of this court, is allowed to make defence to the bill, &c., in
the name of the Milwaukie and Minnesota Railroad Company." This answer was signed by Rockwell individually.
Fleming, another stockholder of the Milwaukie and Min.
nesota Company, presented a petition, charging collusion,
as before charged in the petition of Rockwell, apparently
upon the theory that Rockwell's was his individual answer,
and not that of the company, and praying leave "to put in
an answer for said Milwaukie and Minnesota Railroad Company, and that said company may have thirty days' time to
perfect the same, and prepare a cross-bill as shall be necessary."
Upon this petition, the court "ordered that the said Fleming
have leave to put in answer in the name of the Milwaulie and
Minnesota Railroad Company." Under this order, Fleming
filed an answer, entitled, "The answer of the Milwaukie
and Minnesota Railroad Company, one of the defendants to

Dec. 1863.]

BF.ONSON v. LA CROSSE RAILROAD CO.

287

Statement of the case.

the bill," &c. This answer was signed "The Milwaukie
and Minnesota Railroad Company, by A. Fleming, stockholder;" and also, "A. Fleming, stockholder of the Milwaukie and Minnesota Railroad Company." The complainants filed replications to these answers, entitled "Replications, &c., to the answer of J. S. Rockwell," and "Replication,
&c., to the answer of the Milwaukie and Minnesota Railroad
Company."
The answer of Fleming set up, in general terms, that the
bonds of the La Crosse and Milwaukie Company for the one
million of dollars were issued, and the mortgage of the road
to the complainants made, in violation of the charter of the
company, and in fraud of the stockholders and creditors,
and it then set forth six particular instances of the alleged
fraud on the part of the company, or its officers and directors, in disposing of the bonds. These six instances being
connected with the names of, 1st, Chamberlain; 2d, one
S. R. Foster; 3d, J. T. Souter, a trustee and complainant;
4th, Greene C. Bronson, another trustee and complainant;
5th, one Prentiss Dow. The 6th charge had reference to a
certain leasing of the road to Chamberlain. The answer
proceeded thus:
The defendant, answering, states and shows, upon information
and belief, that the said mortgage and the said one thousand
bonds, to which the same is collateral security, was gotten up,
contrived, and executed by the said railroad company, when
the said company was well known to its board of directors to be
greatly embarrassed in its pecuniary condition and affairs, for
the corrupt and fraudulent purpose of disposing of said bonds,
or a large part thereof, in payment of pretended debts to the
officers and agents of said company, or their friends, without
any consideration to be paid therefor, or in exchange for the
stock of said company, then of little or no value, held by its
fficers and agents or their friends; and that, in point of fact, a
large part of said bonds were so disposed of and given away in
violation of the true intent and meaning of the charter of said
'ompany, in fraud of its creditors, and of this defendant in par-

.:1.88

BRoNsoN

v. LA OCossP RAILROAD Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ticular; that two hundred of said bonds, being those numbered
from 651 to 825 inclusive, and from 851 to 875 inclusive, were
delivered or given to the defendant, Chamberlain, in pretended
payment or satisfaction of a claim of said Chamberlain for services rendered to said company, or for damages sustained by
him by reason of the breaking up or surrender of a contract or
contracts between him and said company, which claim was
wholly fictitious, or was greatly over-estimated, for the fraudulent purpose of enabling him to receive and hold said bonds;
that one hundred of said bonds were given to S. R. Foster, of
the city of New York, as a security for a pretended indebtedness
of said company to him, but that, in truth and in fact, said
company was not indebted to said Foster, on a fair settlement
of accounts, in any sum whatever, but that said Foster was
largely indebted to said company; that about fifty-five of said
bonds were delivu A to the said complainant, J. T. Souter,
either without any consideration at all, or as collateral security
to or in exchange for certain bonds of the said company, theretofore issued corruptly and fraudulently, and without any legal
authority whatever, by the said company, and popularly known
as "Corruption Bonds," or "Barstow Bonds," and that said
Souter gave no valid or valuable consideration therefor, but
that the said transfer to him of the said fifty-five bonds was
fraudulent; that fifteen of said bonds were delivered to the complainant, G. C. Bronson, in exchange for stock of the said company, and was pretended to have been sold to him for the stock
of said company, which stock was at the time nearly or wholly
worthless; and this defendant insists that neither the said company, nor its directors, officers, or agents, had any authority,
power, or right whatever to purchase from said Bronson said
stock for or on behalf of said company, and pay therefor with
money or property or bonds of said company, and that said
pretended sale of said fifteen bonds to said Bronson was illegal
and fraudulent; that about six hundred of said bonds were sold
and disposed of at the nominal price of 80 cents on the dollar, as
follows, viz: forty cents on the dollar of the amount specified
in the said bonds, respectively, was to be paid in money, and
forty cents on the dollar of said amount in the bonds of said
company, known as aforesaid as "Barstow Bonds," or in the
said bonds known as "Corruption Bonds," or in the stock of
saio company; and that the said company received for said six

Dec. 1868.] Bnto.xsox v. LA

CROSSE RAILROAD 0O.

289

Statement of the case.

hundred bonds only about one hundred and ninety thousand
dollars in cash, and that it received in said bonds known as
"Barstow Bonds" and "Corruption Bonds," and mostly in said
Barstow bonds, so-called, about one hundred thousand dollars,
and the remainder, to make up said eighty cents on the dollar,
in the stock of said company; and this delendant insists that
neither the said company, nor its directors, officers, or agents,
had any authority, power or right to sell said bonds and receive
the capital stock of said company in part payment therefor, and
that all of said six hundred bonds, disposed of as aforesaid, are
fraudulent and void, and ought to be surrendered and cancelled.
The answer further stated that one Prentiss Dow, who was
an agent of the company, received fourteen of the bonds for
a sum less than one thousand dollars.
It then set forth the circumstances attending a certain
leasingof the road by the La Crosse and Milwaukie Company
to Chamberlain, and the delivery of possession of the same,
with its rolling stock and appurtenances generally. According to the terms of the lease referred to, Chamberlain
bound himself, after paying the interest and existing claims
arising out of prior liens and incumbrances, to apply the net
proceeds of the road to the accruing interest on the bonds
secured by the mortgage to the complainants. And the
allegation of the defendant was, that Chamberlain and the
complainants, or their agents, combined to withhold the
payment of the interest, for the purpose and with the intent of forcing a sale of the road and its appurtenances,
under the mortgage, for the benefit of Chamberlain, that he
might become the purchaser; and that the present suit was
instituted in pursuance of this arrangement; that Chamberlain had funds in his hands, the proceeds of the road, to pay
the interest coupons due the 1st of September, 1859. The
answer then set out the title of the Milwaukie and Minne
sota Company under the foreclosure of the third mortgage.
The answer of Rockwell, the other stockholder, was substantially the same as that of Fleming.
The evidence in regard to these facts was very voluminous
and intricate, making what the court styled "a most compliVOL 11.
19

290

BRONSON

r. LA

CRoSSE RAILROAD O0.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

cated and difficult case."* It filled a volume of more than
The
one thousand large pages of small pica, set "solid."
facts, too, were resolutely contested, the argument in this
court, and chiefly upon them, having lasted six days. It is
not possible to present here the evidence of them. As assumed by the court in the result and truth to have been
proved, they were in substance somewhat thus, though this
was not exactly the view taken of them by Mr. M. H. Carpenter, counsel of the defendants to the bill, who collocated,
presented, and enforced the evidence of irregular dealing
with singular eloquence and force.
1. As respected Chamberlain. This person, who had been a
contractor on the western part of the road, held a claim for
damages against the company, on account of their failure to
fulfil their contracts made with him; a failure which arrested
the progress of the work. In the autumn of 1857, upon the
issue of the bonds of the company under this second mortgage, an arrangement was entered into by the company, by
which he received, towards payment of this claim, the two
hundred bonds in question; not at par, but atfifty cents on
the dollar.
2. As respected S. R. Foster. He had lent to the company
more than one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and had
taken their bonds as security. Among them were the one
hundred in question. At a meeting of the board of directors, 24th of May, 1858, the matter between the parties was
adjusted by delivery to him of forty bonds, called "land
grant bonds." The terms on which he held them were not
distinct; but it was not shown that he paid what is called
their "face;" in other words, their par.
3. As respected J. T. Souter. The fifty-five bonds in controversy between him and the company were settled, as appeared by a receipt of one Guest, their chairman and vicepresident, on 14th of September, 1858, by the delivery of
other bonds to the company.
4. As respected G. C. Bronson. He had purchased fifteen
See 1 Wallace, p. 411, note.

I)e . 1863.]

BRONSON v. LA CROSSE

RAILROAD

Co.

291

Statement of the case.

thousand dollars worth of stock from the company in the
spring of 1857, and paid eighty cents, cash, on the dollar, the
president, at the time, agreeing that the company would repurchase it at the same rate at any time thereafter, if he
should wish to surrender it back. In September, 1858, they
did take it back; and for this, delivered to him the fifteen
bonds. A meeting of the board of directors on the 2d of
that same September had resolved that it would take into
consideration the stock theretofore purchased by Judge
Bronson, as he had rendered many services to the company,
for which he had received no compensation.
5. As respected Prentiss Dow. It appeared that thirteen
bonds had been received by him, and that for these he paid
the company at the time but $11,400 in cash, stock, and
other bonds, the value of which was not so entirely evident.
However, he was afterwards engaged in the company's service as its agent, settling claims against the company.
Without going into more particulars, it seemed that at the
time these bonds were issued, and afterwards, the La Crosse
and Milwaukie Company were a good deal pressed for
money, as it remained all along. Before issuing the bonds
now in question, it had printed and circulated a letter essentially as follows; and the bonds, when made, were sold
pretty generally, it rather appeared, for what they would
bring; and that what they would bring was sometimes not
much. The transactions, so far as the reporter could understand the immense body of testimony, had a good deal the
aspect which generally marks the fiscal arrangements of unfinished and embarrassed railroad companies endeavoring to
get themselves into successful operation. While resorts to
equivocal expedients might have been sometimes practised,
many of the witnesses spoke without personal knowledge,
and fiom impressions chiefly. The circular was thus:
"OFFICE OF THE LA CROSSE
AND MILWAUKIE RAILROAD CO.,

August 10, 1857.

"The importance of completing our road this season to the
junction of the Western Division, sixty-one miles from Portage

292

Buo.s(,x v.

LA CROSSE RAILROAD CO.

[SUp. Ct

Statement of the case.
City, by which we should not only control the coming winter'E
travel of the Upper Mississippi, but receive over 300,000 acres
of our land grant, has decided the board of directors to place
before the stock and bondholders extraordinary inducements to
furnish the means necessary to accomplish this object. The sum
required to meet the engagements of the company, and finish
the road sixty-one miles beyond Portage City, is about $400,000.
To obtain this sum, the company now offers to the holders of its
stock and unsecured bonds (now so much depreciated in market)
a new issue of one million of eight per cent. bonds, payable in
1870, secured by a deed of trust to Hon. Greene C. Bronson,
and J. T. Souter, President of the Bank of the Republic, in New
York, upon the Eastern Division of its road from Milwaukio to
Portage City, ninety-five miles, subject to a prior lien of about
$13,000 per mile.
"It was intended to issue this new loan exclusively to stockholders, receiving in payment $400 in the stock of this company,
and $400 -n cash for a bond of $1000, but it has been concluded
to extend a like privilege to bondholders of the unsecured bonds
of this company which are outstanding, receiving such bonds,
with unpaid coupons flat, upon the same terms as the stock.
"The subscription will be paid as follows: one-fourth of the
cash payment at the time of making the subscription; the remainder, with the stock or old bonds, to be surrendered either
at the time of subscribing, or on the first day of September,
when the new bonds will bear date and be ready for delivery.
"Books are now open at this office.
•
"ByRoN KILBOURN,
"President."

6. As tc the charge of collusion of the complainants with Chamberlain in the proceedings to foreclose the mortgage. This allegation was founded upon an agreement entered into with
Chamberlain, on the 13th of November, 1859. At the time
of this agreement he was in possession of the road and in
the receipt of its earnings, and, for the purpose of giving to
the trustees the control of its earnings during the proceedings to foreclose, he agreed to deposit them with the agent
of the trustees, from day to day; and the trustees, on their
part, aqreed to appropriate them to the objects and uset

Dec. 1863.] BioNsoN v.

LA

ORossE

RAILRwOAD

CO.

293

Statement of the case.

provided for in the lease, as the exigencies and working of
the road might require. The trustees, in order to secure
the control of the agents of Chamberlain, connected with the
earn'rngs of the road and the receipts of its revenues, stipulated for a supervision over them, and for the discharge of
any of them from the service if desired. They provided,
also, for access to the books and papers relative to the revenues, &c., of the road; also, for the appointment of a receiver
in case of the non-fulfihment of the agreement on the part
of Chamberlain.
The interest on the second mortgage bonds, then due on
them, amounted to $40,000. It was now agreed, that the
proceedings of foreclosure should be conducted amicably;
that no considerable opposition should be made to them by
Chamberlain; and, also, that the sale should be made, if
practicable, subject to the lease to Chamberlain, and that no
opposition should be made to his purchase of the road at the
sale under the foreclosure; but the trustees reserved the
right to bid at the sale for the protection of the bondholders.
The trustees also agreed, that in case Chamberlain should
become the purchaser, they would extend a credit of nine,
and twenty-four months upon so much of the interest as had
become due.
On the 3d of September, 1860, Fleming exhibited in the
District Court, in this cause, a CROSS-BLL in the name of

the Milwaukie and Minnesota Railroad Company, against
the complainants, for discovery in support of the answer filed
by him in the name of the company; and, on the same day,
the court made an order on the cross-bill, that a subpoena
should issue, and service be made on the solicitor of the defendants. Subpcana was issued accordingly. On the same
day the court ordered that the said Bronson and Souter,
defendants aforesaid, "do enter their appearance in this suit
in the clerk's office, on or before the day and time at which
this subpcena is returnable, as aforesaid; otherwise, the bill
iled must be taken as confessed." The defendants to the
'TOss-bill moved tic court to .tlil-ze it from tho files, for the

294

BRONSON v. LA CROSSE RAILROAD (*>,.

[Sll.. Ci

Argument for the defendants.

reason that it had been filed without leave of the court, and,
also, subject to this motion to strike off, filed a demurrer to
it. The court subsequently made an order sustaining the
motion.
The cause was finally heard below, and decree passed in
favor of the complainants, for

FIFTY CENTS ON THE DOLLAR of

the amount, principal and interest, specified in the bond
secured by their mortgage to the complainants, and directing a sale of the railroad between Milwaukie and Portage.*
The road was at this time in the hands of a receiver.
On appeal here, the following were the principal points:
1. As io the answers of the two stockholders, Rockwell
and Fleming, and of Fleming more particularly :---ow far
these answers of individual stockholders were to be regarded
as answers of the Milwaukie and Minnesota Company?
2. Whether the cross-bill of Fleming had been proper 3
dismissed? no leave having been asked to file it.
3. As respected the judgments of Sebre Howard and of
Graham and Scott :-Whether they were liens?
4. The real nature and effect of the transactions with the
parties: 1. Chamberlain [his bonds]; 2. S. R. Foster; 3. J.
T. Souter; 4. Greene C. Bronson; 5. Prentiss Dow; 6. Chamberlain Elhis lease, &c.].
5. Whether, on the whole case, and in view of the express
terms of the third mortgage, that its bonds, &c., were to be
subject to the prior, or second mortgage, the complainants
were entitled to have no more than fifty cents, as decreed
them in the court below, on the dollar, or to have the full
amount which the bonds on their faces called for.
Mr. Carpenter,for the defendants:
1. An issue was formed upon the record,- between the
complainants and the Milwaukie and Minnesota Railroad
Company, by their filing a replication to its answer; and the
complainants are now estopped from insisting that the com* Whether this decree directed also a sale of any portion of the rolling
stock, was one of th questions litigated by the parties in a second appeal,
repo-ked infra, p. 609.

Dec. 1863.]

BRONSON V. LA CROSSE RAILROAD CO.

295

Argument for the defendants.

pany has not made defence. It is merely a question between
the company and its stockholders, Fleming and Rockwell;
and as the company did not in court object to the individual
answer, but, on the contrary, retained counsel in this court
to insist upon it, the company must be deemed to have ratified the act of its stockholders, and thereby to have recognized and ratified the answer so made in its name.
2. No leave was necessary to file the cross-bill. The leave
which was granted to file the answer carried with it the
leave to sustain the answer by testimony; and the cross-bill
was a legitimate and proper method of obtaining such testimony. If leave were necessary, the order of the court upon
the cross-bill, directing subpoena to issue, and ordering the
defendants therein to appear and answer, was equivalent to
leave.
3. As respects the judgments of Sebre Howard and of
Graham and Scott. There appears to be some confusion or
misapprehension of dates. As we understand them, the
judgments were liens. The existence of judgments cannot
be really doubted. The mention of them by the master in
his list of judgments should be enough in the absence of
counter-testimony..
4. The testimony, as we understand it, goes to show that
these transactions with Chamberlain, Foster, Souter, Bronson, and Dow, were very irregular; that the parties were
not bond fide holders for full value at all. The bonds were
procured by the relations of confidence and control in which
the parties stood to the road, by breaches of trust and confidence, implied, if not direct. Certainly, there were many
of them got at enormous discounts. This sort of operation
is a crying evil of our country. Men placed to manage
corporations for the interest of the stockholders, manage
them only for their own. They become contractors, half
ruin the corporation, pay themselves with its assets at enormous discounts, then resuscitate things and are rich in the
result. Here Chamberlain, confessedly, paid but fifty per
cent. for his large amount. As to Souter, he was a trustee •
a party who ought not to have dealt in these bonds at all.

'206

BRONSON

). LA CROSSE RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendants.

Guest, under whose act he claims, was vice-president, no
doubt; but this gave him no authority to make the transac
tions with Souter which he did. Bronson's claim is worse;
he was a trustee and a stockholder both; stockholder in an
insolvent corporation. He sold, or pretended to sell, his
stock to the company for $15,000; bonds secured by mortgage on its property. This was a fraud upon its creditors.
The assets of a corporation constitute a fund for the payment of its debts. "If they are held by the corporation
itself, and so invested as to be subject to legal process, they
may be levied oi by such process. If they have been distri.
buted among stockholders, or gone into the hands of other than
bond fide creditors or purchasers, leaving debts of the corporation unpaid, such holders take the property charged with the
trust in favor of creditors,which a court of equity will enforce,
and compel the application of the property to the satisfaction of their debts."* Bronson was transformed by the
operation which he effected, and which we object to, from
the condition of one of the corporators of an insolvent corporation to that of its preferred creditor.
5. How does the notice on the back of the third mortgage
affect the case? Even though the organization of the Milwaukie and Minnesota Company arose under a junior mortgage, it still claims with the rights of both a purchaser and
a creditor, for it advanced its money on a specific lien.t
Such a party may always set aside a fraudulent conveyance,
even though when about to lend his money such conveyance
may have been flouted in his face to prevent his doing so.
These trustees nowhere assert that they hold for fill value,
or that any one under them does, though they state that the
bonds were signed, registered, issued, and negotiated. Every
one in Wisconsin knows that no full value was given. The
term " Corruption Bonds" was not more the stigma of a
fraud than an illustration of the natural tendency of lan.
guage to assert proper nomenclature from new facts. The
Curran v. State of Arkansas, 15 Howard, 307.
t Finch v. Earl of Winchelsea, 1 Peere Williams, 278.
.

Dec. 1838.]

13RONSON V. LA CROSSE RAILROAD

CO.

297

Argument for the complainants.

circular issued August 10th, 1857, shows the circumstances
under which parties were invited to buy these bonds. They
were invited to irregular transactions; and the sequel showed
that they profited well of their bidding.
6. The lease to Chamberlain was a part of the general
style of management; and if the final arrangements by which
the attempt to foreclose the second mortgage were facilitated are conceived of by the court as we conceive them,
it will have no difficulty in simply affirming the decree.
Messrs. Carlisle and J. S. Brown, contra:
1. The answers by Fleming and Rockwell were not an
appearance of the company, or answer of the company, in
fact. The company was a distinct, political, or legal person,
which could sue Mr. Fleming or Mr. Rockwell, or be sued
by them. A corporation must appear by its authorized attorney, and its answer must be under seal, authenticated
and attached by the proper officers. The law intrusted the
management of its affairs to a board of directors, and in the
eye of the law, and for purposes of this suit, they alone
represent the company. It was for that board to determine
whether any defence, and what defence, was expedient, and
whether they would file an answer admitting our rights, or
by silence give an admission in the law. That board of
directors chose the latter mode, and upon that fact the court
below gave us an order, pro confesso, against it. Its position
as defendant to a foreclosure suit gave the court below no
power to take the management of the suit from the directors (or, in other words, from the defendant interested) and
give it to a man who, although stockholder, was in the law
a stranger. It certainly gave no power so to do on a petition, without notice to the directors interested in the result.
If they had abused their powers, or misrepresented the interests of the company in such a manner as to justify a decree
of ouster, that should have been obtained by decree of a
State court having jurisdiction over such matter, upon proper
proceeding, for that identical purpose; and then the management of the company affairs arJ of Vs defence would be in

298

BRoso-.

r. Li

CROssE ItAILIUAD CO.

[Sup. Ci.

Argument for the complainants.

such new hands as the law intrusted them to, and not in a
mere volunteer for the purpose of litigation.
2. The fact that the cross-bill was irregularly filed we think
to be clear by the settled rules of chancery. The court
below, itself, set it aside, though decreeing generally so much
against us.
3. To entitle Graham and Sebre Howard to defend against
the mortgage as a fraud upon creditors, it was necessary for
them to set up in their answers, and to prove their relation3
as creditors at the time of the mortgage; a subsequent relation
of creditors does not enable them to inquire into these frauds.
No evidence of judgments is before the court but the list attached to the master's report, and this does not prove their
dates or their existence. Courts do not allow litigation of
abstract principles; and a party who complains of fraud must
show that he can gain or lose by the decision of the court.
In their answers, Graham and Scott allege a judgment
in the Circuit Court of Milwaukie County in September,
1858, and a judgment in the United States District Court in
1859, both of which were subsequenl to the third mortgage.
Howard alleges a judgment in the Circuit Court of the
County of Milwaukie in May, and a subsequent judgment
in the United States District Court in 1859, for the same
cause of action.
4. The making of the mortgage and the issuing of the
bonds is confessed. Now how stand the individual cases
which make the most defined cause of defence?
As to Chamberlain. The two hundred bonds issued to him
depend upon the power of directors in good faith to agree
with a contractor upon the amount of damages done to him
for breach of contract. Chamberlain had a just claim, and
they pay him in bonds at their market rate. What objection
is there to this, even if the rate is but fifty per cent. ?
As to Foster. These one hundred bonds were sold in the
regular course of business; and the directors afterwards, on
settlement, allowed Mr. Foster an additional amount in landgrant bonds.
As to J. T. Souter. These fifty-five bonds were given ir

Dec. 1863.]

BnoNso

v. LA CROSSE

RAILROAD

CO.

20A

Argument for the complainants.

exchange for other bonds of the company, for which the
receipt of the vice-president is produced.
As to G. C. Bronson. The fifteen bonds of Bronson were
delivered to him in exchange for stock purchased by him
of the company, under an express agreement that they
would repurchase at the same price,-eighty cents on the
dollar.
As to PrentissDow. These bonds, fifteen only, were purchased and paid for by him in the regular course of business, and are long since sold.
Six hundred and fifteen bonds stand unimpeached by any
legitimate testimony. The answer deals, indeed, in general
allegations. It alleges that so many bonds were sold to various
persons, for which, in the aggregate, only a certain sum was
received in money, and the balance (of eighty cents on the
dollar) in "T"arstow Bonds," or "Corruption Bonds," or in
stock. But what "Corruption Bonds" were, or "Barstow
Bonds" are, we are not told. So we are uninformed as to
what proportion was paid in money, what in stock, what in
these bonds; nor does the answer distinguish bietween the
different traDsactions. Indeed, only this kind of general allegation marks even those cases where specific charges are
pretended to be set up. The charge as to the transaction
with Foster merely alleges in general terms that the La
Crosse Company was overreached. That as to Dow is in the
same position. That as to Souter is a little more distinct in
its charge of fraud on the La Crosse Company, but, like the
rest, fails to state what bonds were so obtained. The charge
as to Chamberlain is a general one, that in some way, under
pretence of settling a claim for damages, he obtained a larger
sum than should have been allowed him. The charge that
directors made the mortgage in fraud of creditors is the one
in which allegations are the most specific; but even with
these no debts are stated, no creditors given, nor is it charged
that any one of the holders of bonds was aware of the condition of the company, or of the fraudulent intentions of the
directors. No combination is anywhere charged. Now, in
all the cases specified, and in the remainder not :pecified.

300

BRONS0N

r. LA CROSSE RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the complainants.

we insist upon this rule, to wit, that when an answer seeks
to attack bonds issued by a railroad company to various
parties, by various transactions, and to set aside such bonds
as fraudulent, it must, in regard to each transaction, contain
all the allegations which would be necessary in an original
bill against the holder to set aside such bonds.
5. The fact that the third mortgage was made subject in
terms to the payment of the Bronson and So-ater bonds in
full, is ingeniously evaded by Mr. Carpenter. It is not met
and answered. What equity have these junior mortgagees
with such a fact in the case? Admit that the bonds were
sold below par, or given away for nothing, still, had not the
stockholders, when asking a new loan, a right to ratify them
as against these parties? to say to parties proposing to lend,
"We shall be happy to deal with you, but you must recognize infull the existing bonds. Observe the conditions?" That
is what they did say. And subject to what was said the
lenders lent: lending at higher rates in proportion as their
security was impaired by its stipulated inferiority to the preceding debt. If the case were between original stockholders,
denying the acts of the directors of the road, and the holders
of the second mortgage bonds, an equity might exist. But
the case is not that one.
6. Finally, it is to be remembered, that at the time when
these bonds were negotiated, the whole Northwest, and
especially Wisconsin, was under a cloud, and railroad property was of doubtful value. The division of the road in
question was then subject to a mortgage of $13,000 on every
mile. Interest was in arrears; and if the earnings of the
road pending litigation on our mortgage were not faithfully
applied to keep down interest on prior incumbrances, those
prior incumbrances might be foreclosed, and sweep the entire property from under our mortgage. This, indeed, we
may say, in passing, was the secret of the agreement in the
lease to Chamberlain. Thirteen hundred thousand dollars
in those days could not easily be raised for investment in
Western securities. The circular of 17th of August, adum1,'ates, or rather projects, in broad cast, the case.

Dec. 1863.j

BitONSON v. LA Olt0SSE RAILROAD CO.

301

Opinion of the court.

We submit that in such a case, indeed, that in most cases
the negotiation and sale of railroad bonds do not stand
upon the same footing as ordinary transactions between individuals. Whatever may be the opinion of any one as to
the expediency of such a policy, the custom of the country
has established a mode of dealing in such securities peculiar
to itself. These bonds are universally sold in the market
for what. they will bring. They are not founded upin,
nor do they presuppose a previous indebtedness to support
them.
Independently of this, it is too late for any corporation,
municipal, railroad, or other, to issue bonds, to sell or negotiate them in ordinary transactions, and then come into this
court, with a hope of getting clear of any portion of the payment of them. Repudiation, in whatever garb or guise it
has. p':esente itself, within these precincts, and in this purprise, has been invariably sent away; driven out with peremptory orders never, in any form, to appear again. Such
doctrines as have been asserted in some of our legislatures,
and tolerated even in certain courts of the States, have
been frowned on as dishonoring the law, and dishonoring
the land.* If, in particular cases, they have worked hardship
to particular persons, or in particular regions, they will do
infinite service to the country in that they keep in full life
the sense of obligation which should ever attend the creation
of debt, and that they maintain, in its proudest elevation,
that honorable justice which is the standing interest of all
couiitries and of all times.
Mr. Justice NWELSON delivered the opinion of the court:
As the two stockholders (Rockwell and Fleming), though
not made defendants by the bill, were permitted, by leave
of the court, to appear and put in answers in the name of
the Milwaukie and Minnesota Company, it is material to
inquire into the effect to be given to them. That they can* See Mercer County v. Racket, I Wallace, 83; Gelpcke % City of Dubuque, Id. 175, REP.

'O2

Biwxsow v.

LA

RAILRUAD
,ROSSE Co.

LSuL.

Ct

Opinion of the court.

not be regarded as the answers of the corporate body is manifest, as a corporation must appear and answer to the bill, not
under oath, but under its common seal. And an omission
thus to appear and answer according to the rules and practice of the court, entitle the complainants to enter an order
that the bill be taken pro confesso. A further objection to
the practice of permitting a party to appear and answer in
the name of the corporation is the inequality that would
exist between the parties to the litigation. The corporation
not being before the court, it would not be bound by any
order or decree rendered against it, nor by any admissions
made in the answer or stipulations that might be entered
into by the parties or their counsel. It is thus apparent,
that while the name of the corporation is thus used as a real
party in the litigation so far as the rights and interests of
the complainants are concerned, it is an unreal and fictitious
party so far as respects any obligation or responsibility on
the part of the respondents.
It is insisted, however, that the directors of this company
refused to appear and defend the bill filed against them, and
for the fraudulent purpose of sacrificing the interests of the
stockholders; and, hence, the necessity, as well as the propriety and justice, of permitting the defence by a stockholder
in their name.
Undoubtedly, in the case supposed, it would be a reproach
to the law, and especially in a court of equity, if the stockholders were remediless. But in such a case, the court in
its discretion will permit a stockholder to become a party
Jefendant, for the purpose of protecting his own interests
against unfounded or illegal claims against the company,
and he will also be permitted to appear on behalf of other
stockholders who may desire to join him in the defence.
But this defence is independent of the company and of its
directors, and the stockholder becomes a real and substantial
party to the extent of his own interests and of those who
may join him, and against whom any proceeding, order,
or decree of the court in the cause is binding, and may be
en1forced. Tt i. true, the remedy is an extreme one, and

Dec. 1863.]

BioWNSON v. LA CatossL

RAILROAD CO.

803

Opinion of the court.

should be admitted by the court with hesitation and caution;
but it grows out of the necessity of the case and for the sake
ofjustice, and may be the only remedy to prevent a flagrant
wrong. A complainant, if he chooses, may compel a corporation to appear and answer by a writ of distringas; or -he
may join with the corporation, a director, or officer, if he
desires a discovery under oath. But we are not aware of
any other except a complainant who can compel an appearance or answer.
Now, although the appearance and answers of the stockholders (Rockwell and Fleming) were irregularly allowed by
the court, as each was permitted to appear and answer in
the name of the company, yet, as the defence set up is
doubtless the same as that which they would have relied on
if they had been admitted simply as stockholders, we are
inclined to regard the answers the same as if put in by them
in that character, in the further views we shall take of the
case. Each one swore to the truth of his answer in the.
usual way.
Before we enter upon an examination of the merits of the
case, it will be proper to dispose of the OROSS-BILL filed by
Fleming against the complainants.
This bill was filed in the name of the company alone,
signed by their solicitors and counsel. The name of Fleming does not appear. And in addition to this, it appears
that Fleming, in his petition for leave to appear and answer
the bill in the name of the cdmpany, also asked leave to file
a cross-bill. Leave was granted to put in the answer, but
not to file the bill. The filing of it subsequently, therefore,
was an irregularity for which the court below very properly
afterwards set it aside. The cross-bill, so much spoken of
n the argument, is thus out of the case. In this connection
we may as well refer to the answers of the judgment creditors, who were made parties defendant to the bill of complaint.
Sebre Howard recovered , judgment in the United States
District Court, on the 28th November, 1859, against the La

304

Bi-oisux v. LA CRossE RAILROAD Co.

[sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad Company, for the sum of
$16,379.86; and Graham & Scott, a judgment in a State court
of Wisconsin, on the 25th November, 1858, against the sanic
company for the sum of $29,820.71; and another judgment
in the same court, on the 21st September, 1858, for the sum of
$11,188.15; and also a judgment against the same company,
in the United States District Court, on the 11th January,
1860, for the sum of $44,413.18. This latter judgment
appears from the answer, as we understand it, to have been
founded on the two previous judgments in the State court.
Now, it appears that each of these judgments were recovered
after the date of the third mortgage of the La Crosse and
Milwaukie Company, upon the foreclosure of which the
Milwaukie and Minnesota Company was formed. The liens
of these judgments were subsequent to this mortgage, and
were cut off by its foreclosure. Indeed, the judgment of
Howard, of November, 1858, and the last judgment of Graham & Scott, which was recovered in 1860, never were liens
upon any interest in the road of the La Crosse and Milwaukie
Company, the defendants in the judgments, as the equity of
redemption had already passed to the purchaser under the
sale to Barnes in the foreclosure of the third mortgage, and
afterwards became vested in the Milvaulde and Minnesota
Company. These judgment creditors, therefore, according
to their answers, have no interest in the subject-matter of
this litigation. We may add, that as replications were filed
to the answers, the proof of these judgments should have
been produced at the hearing. But the only proof of them
that we have found in the record, is in a list of judgments
annexed to the report of the master. They were material,
and were put in issue by the replication.
These answers of the judgment creditors being thus dis
posed of, the issues in the case are brought down to those
raised by the answers of Rockwell and Fleming, in the
name of the Milwaukie and Minnesota Company, which we
have agreed to consider rather by indulgence than as matter
of strict right, as the answers of the individual stockholders.

Dec. 1863.] BnosoN v.

LA

CO
CRossE RAILRoAL Co.

5

Opinioa of the court.

And this brings us to an examination of what may be called
the merits of the case.
Before we take up the questions presdnted by these answers to the bill which bear upon the merits, it will be
proper to refer to some matters there presented,, and very
much discussed on the argument, which, in our judgment,
should be laid entirely out of the case, as tending only to
confuse and embarrass the real questions, involved. We refer
to those parts of the answers which relate to the dealings
between the La Crosse and Milwaukie Company and Chamberlain, in which the complainants in this suit were not
concerned, and with which they had no connection, as, for
instance, the lease of the road to Chamberlain, and the allegation of fraud against him and against the company in
conducting the business of running the road under this
lease. Also, in respect to other contracts between these
pdrties in relation to the indebtedness of the company to
Chamberlain, and to the building and completion of unfinished portions of the road, and equipping it with the
rolling stock for use. These relate to the dealings of the
mortgagor, the La Crosse and Milwaukie Company, with a
third person, over which the complainants, as mortgagees,
had no control, and for which they were not responsible.
These dealings were subsequent to the execution and lien
of the mortgage, and could not affect prejudicially the rights
of the mortgagees. They had no interest in the earnngs of
the road, or concern in the appropriation of them, until the
filing of the bill and the appointment of a receiver.
The only matters, therefore, set forth in these answers,
and in the proofs, which have any bearing on the merits, are:
1. The allegation that Chamberlain received from the La
Crosse and Milwaukie Company two hundred of the bonds
secured by this mortgage fraudulently and without consideration.
2. That S. R. Foster received one hundred of the bonds
in the same way.
8. That J. T. Soutter, one of the trustees, received fifty
five of them, and refused to deliver them to the company.
VO.. IT

20

306

BRoNsoN v. LA

CitoSSE

RAILIZOAD Cu.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

4. That Greene C. Bronson, the other trustee, received
fifteen for the stock of the company.
5. That Prentiss Dow, an officer of the company, received
fourteen for less than one thousand dollars.
And 6. That Chamberlain, who had covenanted, in the
lease of the road from the company, to apply the proceeds
derived from the use of it to the payment of the interest
accruing on the bonds, withheld the payment in pursuance
of a fraudulent arrangement with the trustees, or with their
agents, for the purpose of bringing about a foreclosure of
the mortgage, that he might be enabled to purchase the road.
These are the allegations that bear upon the merits of the
controversy, and deserve to be considered. We shall not,
however, encumber this opinion with any very detailed explanation of them, but shall briefly refer to the proofs relating
to each of these charges.
1. As to Chamberlain. It appears that he held a large claim
for damages against the company, on account of their failure
to fulfil contracts made with him to build the Western Division of the road. The work on the road was suspended by
reason of this failure. And in the fall of 1857, upon the
issue of the bonds of the company, under this second mortgage, an arrangement-was entered into by the company, by
which he received these two hundred bonds, at fifty cents
on the dollar, towards payment of this claim.
2. As to S. R. Foster. lie had loaned the company over
one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and had taken their
bonds as security, and, among others, the one hundred in
question. It appears that, at a meeting of the Board of Directors, 24th May, 1858, the matter between them was adjusted by delivery of forty land-grant bonds to Foster.
3. As to T. J. Soutter. The fifty-five bonds in controversy
between him and the company were settled, as appears by
a receipt of their chairman and vice-president, on 14th September, 1858, by the delivery of other bonds to the company.
4. As to G. C. Bronson. lie had purchased fifteen thousand
dollars of stock, one hundred and fifty shares, from the company, in the spring of 1857, and paid eighty cents cash (i,

Dec. 1866.]

BRoNsoN v. LA CaossD

RAILROAD Co.

8U7

Opinion oi the court.

the dollar, the president at the time agreeing that the company would repurchase it at the same rate, at any time
thereafter, if he should wish to surrender it back. The
company was, doubtless, pressed for money at the time. At.
a meeting of the Board of Directors, on the 2d of September,
1858, it was resolved, that it would take into consideration
the stock theretofore purchased by Judge Bronson, as he
rendered many services to the company for which he had
received no compensation; and afterwards, in September of
the same year, it appears that the president of the company,
who had induced him to purchase the stock, received it
back, aiid delivered to him the fifteen bonds in question.
The truth of the case, therefore, is, that instead of receiving
from the company the money he had advanced for the stock,
according to their agreement, he received in place of it only
bonds of the company of less than half the value; and, as it
appears, nothing for his legal advice and services.
5. As to Prentiss -Dozo. It appears that but thirteen bonds
had been received by him, and for which he paid the company, at the time, $11,400 in cash, stock, and other bonds,
and was afterwards engaged in its service as agent, settling
claims against the company.
In this connection, it is proper to refer to the terms, as
published in a circular by the La Crosse and Milwaukie
Company, and under which these bonds were negotiated
and put into circulation. This paper is dated August 10th,
1857. The company state, that the importance of completing
the road this season to the junction of the Western Division
(sixty miles from Portage), by which they would not only
control the coming winter's travel of the Upper Mississippi,
but receive over 800,000 acres of the land grants, have determined the Board of Directors to place before the stock
and bondholders extraordinary inducements to furnish the
means; that the sum of $400,000 would be required. To
obtain this sum, the company now offers the holders of its
stock and of unsecured bonds, a new issue of one million
of 8 per cent. bonds, &c. The terms proposed are, to receive
in payment for a bond of $1000, $400 in cash, and the like

108

BR 'so,;

r- LA CROSSE RAILROAD CO.
r.

[Su,. CL

Opinion of the court.

sum in the stock or unsecured bonds of the company. It
was upon these terms that the directors went into the
market, in the city of New York and elsewhere, for the purpose of negotiating the bonds which now constitute the subject of litigation.
6. As to the charge of collusion of the complainantswith Chamberlain, in the proceedings to foreclose the mortgage. This allegation is founded upon an agreement entered into with Chamberlain, on the 13th of November, 1859. At the time of this
agreement he was in possession of the road, and in the
receipt of its earnings, and the obvious object of it, on the
part of the trustees, was to procure the control of the net
proceeds of its earnings, pending the proceedings of foreclosure. For this purpose, Chamberlain agreed to deposit
the whole of the earnings with the agent of the trustees,
from day to day; and the trustees, on their part, agreed to
appropriate them to the objects and uses provided for in the
lease, as the exigencies and proper working of the road
might require. The trustees, in order to secure the fidelity
of the officers and agents of Chamberlain, connected with
the earnings of the road and the receipt of its revenues,
stipulated for a supervision and control over these persons,
and for the discharge of any of them from the service, in
case of a dereliction of duty. They provided, also, for access
to the books and papers relating to the revenues, management, and running of the road; also, for the appointment of a receiver, in case of the non-fulfilment of the
agreement on the part of Chamberlain. These provisions
were very important, as the revenues of the road, according
to the terms of the lease, after covering running expenses
and paying the interest on prior incumbrances, were to be
applied to the discharge of the interest on these second
mortgage bonds. The interest then due on them amounted
to $40,000. It was also agreed that the proceedings of foreclosure should be conducted amicably; that is, no unreasonable opposition should be made to them by Chamberlain.
It was further agreed that the sale should be made, if practicable, subject to the lease of Chamberlain, and that no

Dec. 1863.]

BRoNsoN V. LA CRossE RAILROAD (O.

309

Opinion of the court.

opposition should be made to his purchase of the road at
the sale under the foreclosure; but the trustees expressly
reserved the right to bid at the sale for the protection of the
bondholders. The trustees also agreed that, in case Chamberlain should become the purchaser, they would extend a
credit of nine and twenty-four months upon so much of the
interest as had become due.
It is supposed that the arrangement was entered into for
the fraudulent purpose of enabling Chamberlain to purchase
the road at the foreclosure sale, and thereby cut off subsequent incumbrances, and especially the rights and interests
of the Milwaukie and Minnesota Company, formed under
the third mortgage. But there is no evidence of this charge
in the proofs, nor even of any previous dealings between the
parties, tending to this conclusion. They came together for
the first time after the trustees had determined to foreclose
the mortgage for default in the payment of interest, and
finding Chamberlain in the possession of the .road, and refusing to deliver it over to the trustees, as provided for in the
mortgage, but, on the contrary, insisting upon his right to
run the same pending the legal proceedings, it is not strange
that the trustees should have endeavored to arrange with
him for a supervision and control, in the meantime, over the
earnings and management of the road, and that he should
forbear any unreasonable opposition to the foreclosure suit.
And as to the provision relating to the purchase in case of a
sale, there is nothing in it interfering with any rights that
belonged to the trustees, or to the prejudice of third parties,
the judgment creditors, or company formed under the third
mortgage. In a word, the arrangement was highly beneficial to the bondholders represented by the trustees, and
prejudicial to no one concerned in the foreclosure suit.
We shall not, however, dwell longer on this branch of the
case; indeed, much that we have thus far said has been
rather by way of explanation, and for the purpose of clearing
it of matters and issues that do not belong to it, and have
served only to confuse and 'embarrass its consideration. In
view of this object and purpose, we have referred to the two

810

BRoNsoN v. LA C1RossL RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

answers of the stockholders, Rockwell and Fleming, and
have endeavored to separate the irrelevant matter from that
which bore upon the merits, so as to confine the examination
to the latter, namely, to the charges against the validity of
the bonds impeached, of the number of some three hundred
and eighty, in the hands, or which passed into the hands of
several individuals named, and have shown, as we think, by
a reference to the proofs, that these charges are not well
founded. The general and sweeping allegations against the
other portion of the bonds, without specification or identity,
we have not specially noticed. These charges are too general to be entitled to consideration, and the proofs relied on
are as general and indefinite as the allegations.
We have also shown that the judgment creditors who
appeared and answered have no interest in the matters in
controversy; and, lastly, that the charges of a fraudulent
collusion between the trustees and Chamberlain rest upon
suspicion instead of upon proofs.
We now come to a branch of the case which presents a
more conclusive answer to all the charges, whether in allegations or in proofs of the respondents, and overrides all
other views that may or can be taken of them.
As we have seen, this third mortgage, under which the
Milwaukie and Minnesota Company was formed, was executed and delivered to Barnes, the trustee, on the 22d June,
1858, to secure the payment of an issue of $2,000,000 in
bonds, and a supplement to this mortgage was executed to
the same trustee, on the 11th August following.
These two mortgages, or rather one in two parts, were, in
express terms, made subject, among other incumbrancesmentioned,
to the bonds secured by a second mortgage on the Eastern.Division
of the road, to the amount of one million of dollars.
Again, the bonds issued under this third mortgage, one
of which is in the proofs, have an indorsement on the back,
as follows: "State of Wisconsin, La Orosse and Jilwaukie Btail"jad Cbnpany, third mortgage sinking fund bond, seven per cent..

Dec.1863.]

BRoNsoN v. LA CossE RAILrOAD

0O

811

Opinion of the court.

&e. ;" subject, among other things, "to a second mortgage on
the same line of road of $1,000,000."
1 At the time this third mortgage was executed, and thus
made subject to the second mortgage bonds, all these bonds
had been negotiated by the company, and were in circulation
in the business community. They were all negotiated in the
months of September, October, November, and December,
1857. This, the company, of course, well knew at the time
of the execution of the third mortgage, and knew, also, of
the circumstances attending the negotiation of them. They
had received and were in the enjoyment of the avails of
them, and with this knowledge, and under these circumstances, the third mortgage, and the bonds issued under it,
were made in express terms subject to the payment and
satisfaction of the bonds issued under the second. All persons, therefore, taking these third mortgage bonds, or coming
in under the mortgage, took them and came in with a full
knowledge that the mortgagor had made the security subject
to the prior lien and indebtedness. Even if there had been
any valid objection to these bonds under the second mortgage, it was competent for the obligor to waive them, and
no better proof could be furnished of the waiver, than the
acknowledgment of the full indebtedness, by making the
subsequent security subject to it. This was a question that
belonged to the obligor to determine for himself when giving
the third mortgage; but, besides this, what right have those
coming in under it to complain? They come in with full
notice of the acknowledgment of the indebtedness and previous lien; and, especially, what right have the Milwaukie
and Minnesota Company to complain, who purchased the
equity of redemption through Barnes, their agent, subject
to the previous incumbrances of $1,000,000. They have
the benefit of that incumbrance by an abatement of that
amount in the price of the purchase.
Without pursuing the case further, we are satisfied the
decree of the court below, reducing the indebtedness of the
La Crosse and Milwaukie Company to the bondholders, ig

812

BRoNsox r. L.k CROSSE RAILl.D Co.

[Sup, 06.

Opinion of the court.

erroneous, and that the decision should have been for the
full amount of one million of dollars, and interest.
WE SHALL, THEREFORE, REvERSE the decree, and remit the
cause to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Wisconsin, with directions to enter a decree for all
the interest due and secured by the mortgage, with costs;
that the court ascertain the amount of moneys in the hands
of the receiver or receivers from the earnings of the road
covered by the mortgage, which may be applicable to the
discharge of the interest, and apply it to the same; and that
if the moneys thus applied are not sufficient to discharge the
interest due on the first day of March, 1864, then to ascertain
the balance remaining due at that date, and in case such
balance is not paid within one year from the date of the
order of the court ascertaining it, then an order shall be entered directing a sale of the mortgaged premises, under the
direction of the court, and on bringing the proceeds into
court, they shall be applied to the payment of the balance
of interest; and if they exceed such balance, shall be applied to the future accruing interest down to the sale; and
if they exceed that, to the principal of the bonds, in case the
bondholders assent, or pro rata to those who may assent, and
any remaining balance of the proceeds to be invested, under
the direction of the court, for the payment of future accruing interest, and ultimately the principal.
AND FURTHER,

that in case the interest upon the bonds is

paid without a sale, the decree shall remain as security for
subsequent accruing interest, and ultimately for the principal.
AND FURTHER, that the court may pay out of moneys
in the hands of the receiver, or out of the proceeds, the
taxed costs of the trustees in the proceedings for the foreclosure of the mortgage, not taxed and received from the
defendants in those proceedings; and also such counsel fees
in behalf of the trustees, as the court, in its discretion, may
seem right to allow.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

