Dec. 1864.]

MILES V. CALDWELL.
Opinion of the court.

deed may be filled up without any official authority, and may
be good or bad. The acknowledgment requires such authority. The difficulty here is not in the form of the acknowledgment, but that it applied to a nonentity, and was, therefore, nugatory. The truth is, that the acknowledgment in
this case might as well have been taken and made on a
separate piece of paper, and at some subsequent period attached by the officer, or some other person, to a deed that
had never been before the feme covert. The argument in
support of its validity would be equally strong.
Our opinion is that, as it respects Mrs. Foster, the mortgage is not binding on her estate.
We may regret the misfortune of the complainant from
the conclusion at which we have arrived; but it seems to us
impossible to extend the relief prayed for by the bill of foreclosure, without abrogating the protection which the law for
ages has thrown around the estates of married women.
Losses of the kind may be guarded against, on the part of
dealers in real estate, by care and caution; and we think
that this burden should be imposed on them, rather than
that a sacrifice Should be made of the rights of a class who
are dependent enough in the business affairs of life, even
when all the privileges with which the law surrounds them
DECREE AFFIRMED.
are left unimpaired.
-N.B. A decree made below, on a cross-bill ordering the mortgagee to cancel the wife's name on the mortgage, was affirmed
here. The coss-bill set up, substantially, the facts disclosed in
the answer to the original bill; and the proofs taken in each
case were the same.
MILES v. OALDWELL.
1. The established rule, that where a matter has been once heard and determined in one court (as of law), it cannot be raised anew and reheard
in another (as of equity), is not confined to cases where the matter is
made patent in the pleadings themselves. Where the form of issue in

the trial, relied on as estoppel, is so vague (as it may be in an action of
ejectment), that ii does uot ihow I.recisely what questions were before

36

MILES V. CALDWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
the jury and were necessarily determined by it, parol proof rr ay be
given to show them.
2. The reasons which rendered inconclusive one trial in ejectment, have
force when the action is brought in the fictitious form practised in England, and known partially among ourselves; but they apply imperfectly,
and have little weight, when the action is brought in the form now
usual in the United States, and where parties sue and are sued in their
own names, and the position and limits of the land claimed are described.
They have no force at all in Missouri, where the modern form is prescribed, and where, by statute, one judgment is a bar.
8. A State statute, enacting that a judgment in ejectment-provided the
action be brought in a form which gives precision to the parties and
land claimed-shall be a bar to any other action between the same
parties on the same subject-matter, is a rule of property as well as of
practice, and being conclusive on title in the courts of the State, is
conclusive, also, in those of the Union.

brought ejeetment against Caldwell, in the Circuit
Court of Missouri; the action being brought, not in the fictitious form, still sometimes used in the United States, but
in the form now more frequent with us, in which the parties
actuaely suing appear in their proper names, as Thomas
Miles against William Caldwell, and where the land claimed
is described as by metes or bounds, or by both; the action
being entitled, in Missouri, "trespass in ejectment." Both
parties in the present suit claimed under one Ely, who, in
1837, and prior to that time, was owner of the land; Caldwell claiming under a moltgage made by Ely to Gallagher iii
that year; and a subsequent release by Ely;* Miles, undei
a mortgage of 1838, by Ely to Carswe]l and McClellan, and
a foreclosure and sale founded on it. The defendant, Caldwell, in that ejeetment, contended that his own title, under
the mortgage to Gallagher, was good; and that the title of
Miles, under the mortgage to Carswell and McClellan, was
bad, as having been made in fraud of creditors. Miles, the
MILES

The mortgagee had
was given
mortgage
the
which
a
note
on
Ely
against
a
judgment
obtained
to secure, and under an execution issued on that judgment the land was sold,
and by several mesne conveyances the complainant became invested with
bach title or claim as that sale could confer. Having some doubts of the
validity, under the laws of Missouri, of this title, Caldwell procuzed from
Ely, tae mortgagor, the release above mentioned.
* The mortgage to Gallag&er was never foreclosed.

Dec. 1864.]

MILES V. CALDWELL.
Statement of the case.

plaintiff, on the other hand, contended that the mortgage to
Gallagher had been satisfied; and that his own mortgage
was not fraudulent, but given for a valid debt. Both these
points-that is to say, the point whether Gallagher's mortgage had or had not been paid, and whether that of Carswell
and McClellan was fraudulent or was good-were submitted
to the jury, who, on instructions from the court, passed upon
them, finding a verdict for the plaintiff, Miles. Indeed, as
to the question of fraud, there was an express agreement,
now before this court, that the mortgage to Carswell and
McClellan was, in the action of ejectment, impeached for
fraud; and the record of that suit also established the fact
that the question, whether the mortgage to Gallagher had
been paid off in full, was submitted to them. But neither
of these points were points put in issue by the pleadings themselves; nor, indeed, was it practicable so to put them in issue
in the action,-that of ejectment.
In this state of the facts, Caldwell, wishing, as he represented, to have his title "quieted," filed his bill on the equity
side of the court, where the judgment at law had been obtained, to enjoin execution on the judgment, and to prevent
Miles's taking possession of the land.
The grounds of the complainant's application were these:
1. That his title was good and valid, founded on the senior
mortgage; and, being the true legal title, should prevail.
2. That the mortgage to Carswell and McClellan was
fraudulent, because made for the purpose of hindering and
delaying creditors; and that a court of equity should decree
it to be void, and prevent its being used to the injury of complainant.
3. That he had made valuable improvements, in good
faith, on the land, supposing it to be his own, for which he
was entitled to compensation before it was taken from him.
It is necessary here to say, that in Missouri one of the Revised Statutes enacts, that in ejectment, as in other actions
authorized by it, a judgment, except one of nonsuit, "shall
be a bar to any other action between the same parties, or
those claiming under tliem, ,is to tlisame subjcct-matter."

MILES V.

CALDWELL.

[S ap. -

Opinion of the court.

The court below granted the injunction, and an appeal
came here.
Hr. Greer, in supportof the decree: Caldwell, being in posses
si on, under a senior mortgage,had a right to stay. Even if the
judgment on the note did not foreclose the mortgage, he had
a release from Ely which gave him the equity of redemption.
Admitting that the question of the payment of Gallagher's
mortgage, and the good faith of that of Carswell and McClellan were in issue on the trial at law, what is there to prevent
their being passed on here? The action was ejeetment; a proceeding in which it is matter of common knowledge that one
judgment never binds. Moreover, it is a rule that nothing
will be held as concluded by the verdict which is not put in
issue by the pleadings. Outram v. .Dlorewood,* confines the
conclusiveness to questions expressly so put.
[On the third ground assigned for relief-valuable improvements put on the land-Mr. Green made no remarks.]
Mr. Gantt, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
1. The complainant's first proposition-that his title is
good, founded on the prior mortgage, and, being the true
legal title, should prevail-contains no element as it is
stated, or in the facts which go to make up his title, that
calls into action the powers of a court of chancery. If under
the proceedings which took place in regard to the mortgage
of Gallagher,t the complainant acquired the legal title to the
real estate in question, a court of law would notice that title,
and is as much bound to respect it as a court of equity. If
he did not really obtain the legal title, but having the possession, was entitled to be treated as a mortgagee in possession, a court of law is bound to protect him in that possession against any title, not paramount to the mortgage under
which he held.
* 8 East, 846.

t See supra, p. 36, note.

Dec. 1864.]

MILES V. CALDWELL.
Opinion of the court.

We cannot perceive that there is any circumstance connected with the title of complainant, which brings his case
within the jurisdiction of a court of equity. Although it is
true that in the practice of the English courts, and in those
States of the Union where the fictitious action of ejectment
is still in use, chancery will interfere where there have been
repeated verdicts in favor of the same title to prevent further
litigation, it is not true that chancery will interpose in favor
of the unsuccessful party in the first trial, upon the sole
ground that he has the legal title, and, therefore, ought to
have succeeded in the action at law. It would be a novelty
that a court of chancery, which in proper cases quiets a title
which has been established by several verdicts and judgments
at law, should reverse its course of action to quiet a title
strictly legal, with no impediment to its assertion in a court
of law, where it had been defeated in the only action in which
it had been thus set up.
2. The second proposition, in respect of which complainant
asks relief,-that the mortgage to Carswell and McClellan
is fraudulent, made to hinder creditors, &c.,-is one of the
common grounds of equity jurisdiction. To relieve against
fraud, and to set aside and cancel fraudulent conveyances, are
among the ordinary duties of courts of chancery. Courts
of law, however, have concurrent jurisdiction of questions of
fraud, when properly raised; and, although they cannot cancel or set aside fraudulent instruments of writing, yet when
they are produced in evidence by a party claiming any right
under them, their fiaudulent character may, under proper
circumstances, be shown, and their validity in the particular
case contested.
It is a general rule, growing out of the concurrent jurisdiction of the courts of law and chancery over this subject,
as well as a variety of others, founded also upon the principle that it is the interest of the public, that there should
be some end to litigation, that when a matter has once been
heard and determined in one court, it shall not be subject to
re-examination in another court between the same parties.
The defendant in this suit invokes the benefit of this rule as

MILES V. CALDWELL.

[Sup. 0t

Opinion of the court.

regards the question of fraud in the mortgage from Ely to
Carswell and McClellan, and also as to the fact charged by
him that the Gallagher mortgage had been fully satisfied,
and was no longer of any force; alleging that both questions
were submitted to the jury and decided against complainant
in the action of ejeetment, the judgment in which is now
sought to be enjoined. Of the fact of such submission and
finding there can, in this case, be no doubt. Under the instructions of the court, which are in proof in this record, if
the jury found either of these issues in favor of Caldwell,
the plaintiff was not entitled to a verdict. The plaintiff,
however, did get a verdict. It thus appears conclusively
that the jury found that there was no fraud in the second
mortgage, and that the first had been satisfied.
The complainant, however, seeks to evade the force of the
general principle on the ground that the verdict and judgment in actions of ejeetment have not that conclusive effect
between the parties which they have in other actions, either
in courts of law or equity. It must be conceded that such
is the general doctrine on the subject, as applicable to cases
i ried under the common law form of the action of ejectment.
One reason why the verdict cannot be made conclusive in
those cases is obviously due to the fictitious character of the
action. If a question is tried and determined between John
Doe, plaintiff, and A. B., who comes in and is substituted
defendant in place of Richard Roe, the casual ejector, it is
plain that A. B. cannot plead the verdict and judgment in
bar of another suit brought by John Den against Richard
Fen, though the demise may be laid from the same lessor,
for there is no privity between John Doe and John Den.
Hence, technically, an estoppel could not be successfully
pleaded so long as a new fictitious plaintiff could be used.
It was this difficulty of enforcing at law the estoppel of
former verdicts and judgments in ejectment, that induced
courts of equity (which, unrestrained by the technicality,
could look past the nominal parties to the real ones) to interfere, after a sufficient number of trials had taken place, to
dctermine fairly the validity of the title; and by injunction.

Dec. 1864.]

MILES V. CALDWELL.
Opinion of the court.

directed to the unsuccessful litigant, compel him to cease
from harassing his opponent by useless litigation.
There was, perhaps, another reason why the English
common law refused to concede to the action of ejectment,
which is a personal action, that conclusive effect which it
gave to all other actions, namely, the peculiar respect, almost
sanctity, which the feudal system attached to the tenure by
which real estate was held. So peculiarly sacred was the
title to land with our ancestors, that they were not willing
that the claim to it should, like all other claims, be settled
forever by one trial in an ordinary personal action, but permitted the unsuccessful party to have other opportunity of
establishing his title. They, however, did concede to those
solemn actions, the writ of right and the writ of assize, the
same force as estoppels, which they did to personal actions
in other cases.
The first of the above reasons, for the inconclusiveness of
the action of ejectment, does not exist in the case before us.
That is not the old fictitious action, but is a suit by Thomas
Miles against William Caldwell, in which the former complains of the latter "in a plea of trespass and ejectment,"
and sues for the possession of the land and for damages for
its detention. If Caldwell should sue Miles to regain possession after the latter had obtained it under his judgment,
there exists no technical reason to prevent Miles from pleading the former judgment, and alleging that it involved the
same subject-matter as that for which the second suit was
brought.
How far the peculiar sanctity attaching to titles to real
estate is still a reason, if it were ever one, for taking judg.
ments in ejectment out of the general rule of conclusive.
ness, we will consider hereafter. At present we proceed to
inquire into a qualification of the rule which is alleged to
apply in all cases where the action relied on as an estoppe]
was in tort, namely, that nothing will be held as concluded
by the verdict which was not put directly in issue by the
pleadings. If this principle is a sound one, the plea in this
--ase being the geueral issue of not guilty, no parol proof can

42

MILEs v. CALDWELL.

[st,. Ca.

Opinion of the court.

be received to show what questions of fact were submitted to
the jury under that issue. The case of Standish v. Parker,*
would seem to countenance this doctrine. But, after a careful
examination of the authorities, we do not think that the rule
is sustained, nor do we believe it to be founded on sound
principle. No reason is perceived why parol proof should
be admitted to show what facts were proved, or were put in
issue, under the general issue in assumpsit, that would not
be equally applicable to the same issue in trespass. Yet it
is quite clear, from numerous authorities, that the facts put
in issue in assumpsit may be shown in another action by
parol.t The case of Outram v. Moorewood is a leading case
on the subject. It is there decided that the action of trespass is conclusive on all questions put expressly in issue by
the pleadings. But there is nothing in the opinion touching
the introduction of parol proof, for the pleas in that case
rendered it unnecessary, the facts in dispute having been set
forth in a special plea. In Eitchen v. Campbell,j the former
action was trover for the conversion of goods; and the same
plaintiff' having afterwards sued in assumpsit for their value,
his defeat in the former suit was held to be a bar to his recovery in the second action. Although it is not stated in
the case what was the plea in the action of trover, there is
no reason to suppose that it was other than not guilty; nor
does it seem that any importance was attached to the form
of the plea. In lBurt v. Sternburgh,§-an action of trespass
quare clausum fregit,-the plaintiff was allowed to introduce
the record of a former recovery between the same parties in
an action of trespass, and then to prove by parol that the
locus in quo was the same, and that the title relied on by defendant in the action then on trial, was the same title which
had been set up and defeated in the first action. In Doty v.
Brown,I1 the action was replevin for oats, hay, &c. The case
2 Pickering, 20.

-

Washington Steam Packing Co. v. Sickles, 24 Howard, 883.
T 3 Wilson, 304.
4 Cowen, 559.
O4 Comstock, 71.

Dec. 1864.]

MILES V. (ALDWELL.
Opinion of the court.

turned on the validity of a bill of sale, which was alleged tc
be fraudulent and void as to creditors. The defendant relied
on a judgment of a justice of the peace in a former suit, between the same parties, for the conversion of a part of the
goods covered by the same bill of sale. The justice was
allowed to testify that he had rendered his judgment in favor
of defendant on the ground that the bill of sale was fraudulent as to creditors; and this was held conclusive in the
Couirt of Appeals of New York.
We are of opinion that the prevailing doctrine of the
courts at present is, that whenever the form of the issue in
the trial relied on as an estoppel is so vague that it does not
determine what questions of fact were submitted to the jury
under it, it is competent to prove by parol testimony what
question or questiofis of fact were before the jury, and were
necessarily passed on by them. In the case under considera.
tion, the record leaves no doubt on that subject.
Reverting now to the question of policy, grounded on the
supposed sanctity of land titles as affecting the conclusiveness of judgments in trespass or ejectment, we remark that
it is the settled doctrine of this court in reference to all
questions affecting the title to real estate, to permit the
different States of the Union to settle them each for itself;
and when the point involved is one which becomes a rule of
property, we follow the decisions of the State courts, whether founded on the statutes of the States or their views of
general policy.
As regards the particular question before us, there is a
great difference in the different States in the value attached
to real estate, and to the title by which it is held, as compared with other species of property. But no doubt is entertained that in all of them the feeling is far removed from
that which formerly prevailed in England, or which prevails
there even now. While some of our older States still uphold many of the safeguards of the common law, with its
complicated system of conveyancing, operating as a strong
drag upon the facility and frequency of transfers of real property, our Western people traffic in hand as they do in horses

MILES V.

CALDWELL.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

or merchandise, and sell a quarter-section of land as readily
and as easily as they do a mule or a wagon. The laws of
the people correspond with their habits. Deeds of conveyance are, by statute, rendered exceedingly simple and effectual, the main safeguard being a well-digested system of registration. In consonance with this general facility of traffic,
it is their policy to prevent those endless litigations concerning titles to lands, which, in other countries, are transmitted
from one generation to another. The rapid settlement, of a
new country requires that a title once fuirly determined shall
not be again disturbed as between the same parties.
The Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1855,* concerning the
action of ejectment, say: "A judgment, except of nonsuit,
in an action authorized by this act, shall be a bar to any
other action between the same parties, or those claiming
under them, as to the same subject-matter." We hold this
enactment to be binding on the Federal courts as well as
those of the State. It is a rule of. property. It concerns
the stability of titles to land, and it would be highly improper to adopt in the Federal courts a rule tending to increase litigation and unsettle those titles, which is in conflict
with the one prescribed by the law-making power of the
State. It is a matter which involves something more than a
mere rule of practice. It is a question whether a matter,
which is conclusive of the title to land in the State courts,
shall have the same effect in the Federal courts. It is our
opinion that it should.
3. As regards the claim for improvements made in good
faith by complainant, the matter is not alluded to by his
counsel in this court at all. It is barely mentioned by the
counsel for appellant, and no importance seems to have been
attached to it either here or in the court below. Such a
right must depend wholly upon the statutes of Missouri, and
none are cited to us. We are unwilling to enter upon an
investigation of the law and the facts both under such cir.
¢umstances. Besides, without deciding the point, we may
* Page 695, ch. 68,

33.

Dec. 1864.]

TOOL COmPANY V. NORRIS.
Statement of the case.

remark that upon an examination of the statute of Missouri on that subject, and looking .to the policy which dictated it, it does not seem probable that it was intended to
give this -kind of relief to an unsuccessful defendant in ejectment, while he was still contesting the title of the plaintiff.
As to this point, we incline to rule that the bill shall be dismissed without prejudice.
GRIER, J., expressed his concurrence, adding as another
reason why the bill should have been dismissed, that even if
the mortgage given to Carswell and McClellan had been
fraudulent, -which his Honor, after examining the testimony, said it was not,-the complainant, who was not a
creditor, had no equity to found his bill.
DECREE REVERSED, with costs; case remanded to the court

below, with directions that there the bill be dismissed with
costs; the dismissal, however, to be without prejudice to any
remedy of the complainant for compensation for improvements on the land made in good faith.

TOOL COMPANY V. NORRIS.
1. An agreement for compensation for procuring a contract from the Government to furnish its supplies is against public policy, and cannot be
enforced by the courts.
2. Where the special and general counts of a declaration set forth the same
contract, and an instruction directed to the legality of the contract, is
refused with reference to the special counts, it is unnecessary, in order
to bring up to this court for consideration the writing thereon, to ask
the instruction with reference to the general counts to which it is equally
applicable, although upon the special counts the verdict passed for the
plaintiff in error.

IN July, 1861, the Providence Tool Company, a corporation created under the laws of Rhode Island. entered into .

