LOWBI R v. BANGS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tion remains, although I may stand alone. If this great
wrong must be done, I would that it could have been done
upon some other ground; for it seems that, in the opinion
of the court, the case has been pending six years since it
was finally and conclusively decided, which is an anomaly,
perhaps, never before witnessed in a judicial tribunal. In
my view of the case, the decree of the court should be reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to order a
new survey under the rules and regulations of the Executive
department of the Government.

LoWBER V. BANGS.
A stipulation in a charter-party that the chartered vessel, then in distant
seas, would proceed from one port named (where it was expected that
she would be) to another port named (where the charterer meant to load
her), "with all possible depatch," is a warranty that she will so proceed;
and goes to the root of the contract. It is not a representation simply
that she will so proceed, but a condition precedent to a right of recovery. Accordingly, if a vessel go to a port out of the direct course, the
charterer may throw up the charter-party.
Ex. gr. A vessel, while on a voyage to Melbourne, was chartered at Boston for a voyage from Calcutta to a port in the United States. The
charter-party contained a clause that the vessel was to "proceed from
Melbourne to Calcutta with all possible despatch." Before the master
was advised of this engagement, the vessel had sailed from Melbourne
to Manilla, which is out of the direct course between Melbourne and
Calcutta, and did not arrive at Calcutta either directly or as soon as
the parties had contemplated. The defendants refused to load; and
upon suit to recover damages for a breach of the charter-party, it was
held that the charterers might rightly claim to be discharged,

& SON being owners of the ship Mary Bangs, then
at sea, on her passage from New York to Melbourne, chartered her at Boston, on the 4th June, 1858, to Lowber, who
was there, for a voyage from Calcutta to Philadelphia, &c.
The charter-party contained the following clauses:
BANGS

"Ship to proceed from Melbourne to Calcutta with all possible
despatch. It is understood that the , Mary Bangs' is now on her

Dec. 1864.1

LOWBER v. BANGS.
Statement of the case.

passage from New York to Melbourne (sailed 3d day May last);
that the owners will use the most direct means to forward instructions to the master, with copy of this charter, ordering it
to be falfilled; but should it so happen that the ship should arrive
at Melbourne before these instructions, and the master should have
engaged his ship before receiving them, this charter will be void."
No provision, it will be observed, was made for the case
of the vessel's having left Melbourne unengaged, or, indeed,
for anything but for her arriving at Melbourne, and her
engagement before receiving the instructions promised by
Bangs & Son, to be sent. The vessel reached Melbourne on
the 7th of August; she discharged I-er cargo, and was ready
to sail on the 7th of September. She waited for the mail
until the 16th of that month. It was due there on the 5th
of September, but by an accident did not arrive until the
14th of October. The voyage from Melbourne to Calcutta,
at that time of the year, usually consumed from forty-five
to sixty-days. Had the vessel proceeded to Calcutta direct,
she ought to have reached there before the middle of November. She went, however, to ianilla, much out of the
direct course from Melbourne to Calcutta, and arrived there
on the 16th of November. She left Manila on the 24th of
January, and arrived at Calcutta on the 26th of February,
more than three months after the time at which she ought to have
arrived, ifshe had gone there directly from Melbourne. The
owners addressed to the master five letters, of different dates,
advising him of the charter-party, and directed them to
Melbourne. The charterers, on the 23d of June, despatched
an agent to Calcutta, who arrived there on the 25th of August. As soon as he learned that the vessel had not come
direct from Melbourne, he declined loading her under the
charter-party. Freights, it may be added, had largely fallen
between the date when the charter-party was made, and
that of the vessel's arrival at Calcutta; and, also, that after
the arrival of the Mary Bangs, and after she was ready and
had offered to re(eive a cargo, the charterers engaged an)ther vessel, of about the same tonnage, to take her place,

LOWBER

v.

:BANGS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the owners.

and loaded her with a cargo purchased after the arrival of
the Mary Bangs, with funds provided for her. The case
thus showed that the object of the voyage had not been
frustrated.
On error from the Massachusetts Circuit, where the case
had come before the court as a case stated, the question
presented for the determination of this court was, whether
the fact that the ship proceeded from Melbourne to Manilla
and thence to Calcutta, instead of going to Calcutta from
Melbourne directly, gave the charterers a right to avoid the
charter-party; in other words, whether the clause, "ship
to proceed from Melbourne to Calcutta with all possible
despatch," did or did not make a condition precedent; whether, in short, it constituted a warranty, or merely a representation? The court below considered that it was not a
condition precedent, but an independent stipulation, which
gave the charterers a claim for damages on failure of performance by the owners, but did not give them the right to
avoid the contract; the object of the voyage not having been
wholly frustrated. Judgment was given below accordingly.
Mr. Curtis,for the owners.
1. The meaning of the clause is, that the owners would
have the vessel at Calcutta "seasonably." She was so there,
as is proved by the charterers having got another vessel
after the arrival and loaded her. The voyage was not frustrated, nor was even inconvenience felt. The charterers
threw up their charter only because freights had greatly
fallen, and it was for their interest to do so. The argument
which gives to the expression in question its severest meaning is unreasonable. If the master, after receiving his instructions at Melbourne, had stopped unnecessarily for but
an hour, had gone to see a friend, had sailed by any but the
shortest possible line, had not kept under the utmost pi ess
of sail, the charter would be void. The ship would not
have proceeded from Melbourne to Calcutta with "allpossiile despatch." The argument makes the obligation to sail
-lepeudent, not on the receipt of the instructions, but on her

Dec. 1864.]

LOWBER V. BANGS.

781

Argument for the owners.

actual ability, at the moment, to sail. Who, on this construction of the instrument, could settle whether the contract
had or had not been complied with? It might be confidently
affirmed, that on this interpretation of such words no contract containing them ever had been, or ever would be, fulfilled. The more strict you make the construction, the more
difficult you make it to be practically settled. You are also
drawing within its scope things of no real effect. Can it be
supposed that reasonable men, making a contract reaching
over half the globe, and having before their eyes the contingencies which were certain to occur in distant seas and
ports, could have thus contracted? Why give to a practical
instrument a construction so impracticable?
2. It has been decided, in a large number of English
cases, that such clauses as "ship to proceed with all convenient speed," or "in a reasonable time," and similar
clauses, are not, in charter-parties, conditions precedent,
but are merely independent stipulations; and unless the
alleged breach goes to the whole root and consideration, it
only gives a claim for damages. In Tarrabochiav. Hickie,*
the charter contained a provision, that the vessel should
"sail with all convenient speed." The jury found, in an
action for refusing to load, that the vessel did not sail with
all convenient speed; but the court held that this was no
excuse for a refusal to load, because it did not appear that
the object of the voyage was wholly frustrated by the breach
of the stipulation. In Dimech v. Corlettt the vessel was described as now at anchor in the port of Malta; and it was
agreed that "she, being tight, stanch, and strong, and properly manned, and every way fitted for the voyage, should,
with all convenient speed, proceed in ballast to Alexandria,
in Egypt." The ship was not then finished, and did not
get ready to sail for more than a month. Held, that the
failure to sail "with all convenient speed" was no answer
to an action for a refusal to load, because the charterer had
not shown that the object of the charter-party was frustrated
*1

Hurlstone & Norman, 183.

t- 12 Mfoore, Privy Council, 199.

LOWBER V. BANGS.

L[Sul. Ct.

Argument for the charterers

by the delay; it not being "shown that the charterer had
taken up any other vessel or declined any cargoes, or in any
way altered his position, in consequence of the delay." In
Clpsham v. Vertue,* it was held, on demurrer, that a failure
to perform a stipulation in a charter-party, to sail "within a
reasonable time," was no answer to an action for not loading; it not being alleged that the purpose of the voyage was
frustrated. In Freeman v. Taylor,t the charter contained a
stipulation to proceed from the Cape of Good Hope to Bombay "with all convenient speed." The master wilfully deviated, and went to Mauritius, and caused a delay of six
weeks. The court directed the jury to find whether the
deviation deprived the defendant of the benefit of the con.
tract.
In some cases, it has been held in England that a stipulation in a charter to sail on or before a day certain was
a condition precedent; and such stipulations were distinguished from those containing the words, "all convenient
speed," "within a reasonable time," and "with all possible
despatch."t Such was Baron Pollock's idea in Tarrabochia
v. Hickie; but there appears to be no decision in which a
clause similar to that in this case has been held to be a condition.
Mr. S.Bartlett, contra.
1. The contract is explicit and clear. "Ship to proceed
from Melbourne,"-notfrom Manilla, or any other port in the
Eastern seas, where she might at any time be found. "Wit h
all possible despatch;" that is to say, direct from Melbourne
to Calcutta. Do these words leave a doubt that both parties
contemplated that the contract should apply only to a vessel
at Melbourne? How could the owners have been willing to
bind themselves and their ship by a contract which should
take effect after she left Melbourne, wheresoever notice
reached the master, without making some provision in thai
* 5 Adolphus & Ellis, N. S. 265.

t

t 8 Bingham, 124.

Glaholm v. Hays, 2 Manning & Granger, 257; Ollive v. Booker, 1 ,x-thequer, 416.

Dec. 1864.]

LOWBER

v. BANGS.

Argument for the charterers.

contract for a probable or possible state of things which
might involve them in severe loss? How could the charterers have been willing, without making some limitation
of time, to bind themselves to keep an agent and funds at
Calcutta, ready to load a ship under a contract to take effect
when notice should reach the master, it may be, in distant
seas, and pending or after intermediate voyages?
2. How stands the case on authority? In Graves v. Legg,*
the plaintiffs contracted to import and sell the defendant
wools, to be laid down in certain ports of England. The
contract recited that it was "to be deliverable at Odessa
during August next, to be shipped with all despatch, the names
of the vessels to be declared as soon as the wools were
shipped." The breach relied on in defence, as a condition
precedent, was that the plaintiff did not notify to the defendant the name of the vessel in which the wool was
shipped as soon as it was shipped. The defendant threw up
the contract. In the argument and judgment the effect of
the clause "to be shipped with all despatch," as a condition
precedent, and forming part of the same clause, was discussed, and the requisition to give notice of the names of
the vessels, held to be a condition,-on the ground, among
other things, that the terms "to be shipped with all despatch," in the same clause, clearly constituted a condition
precedent. Thus Parke, B., asks, "Could the plaintiff contend that the shipping the wools with all despatch is not a
condition precedent ?" and the counsel for the plaintiff substantially admitted that it was. 'In its judgment, the court
say the giving notice of the names of the ships "was a condition precedent, quite as much, indeed, as the shipping of
the goods at Odessa, with all despatch, after the end of
August."
Cases have been cited on the other side, where charterparties have provided that the ship should sail with "all
convenient speed," and in which the provision has been held
not to be a condition precedent, entitling the charterer to
* 9 Exchequer, 709.

LowBs R v. BANqS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the charterers.

repudiate the contract. The reason is that stated in some
of those cases, viz., that "what is a convenient speed or
reasonable time, must always be a subject of contention.
Where terms are so lax and ambiguous as to lead to a
difference of opinion, then the stipulation is not a condition
precedent." In the present case, the words "all possible
despatch," are not equivalent to " reasonable time," and
leave no ambiguity as to the intention of the parties, as is
shown by the above case of Graves v. Legg.
The other side relies apparently on the supposed doctrine,
that whether a stipulation in a charter-party constitutes a
condition precedent or not, may be determined by proof
that its violation had or had not the effect to frustrate the
voyage, and that, as in this case, the charterers do not show
that the voyage was frustrated, they are to be charged. It
is not to be denied that some of the cases cited by Mr. Curtis assert the principle as stated. But the conflict in the
cases, and the obvious unsoundness of the doctrine, has led
to its revision in the Exchequer Chamber, in Behn v. Burness.* That case will be found to review the preceding cases,
and to establish the following propositions:
1st. That whether a descriptive statement in a written instrument is a mere representation, and so "not an integral
part of the contract" (unless fraudulently made), or whether
it is a substantive part of the contract, is a question of construction by the court.
2d. That the previous cases turn upon very nice distinctions, but that the true doctrine, as established by principle
as well as authority, is, that, "generally speaking, if such
descriptive statement was intended to be a substantive part
of a contract, it is to be regarded as a condition, on failure or
non-performance of which the other party may, if he is so
minded, repudiate the contract in toto, provided it has not
been partially executed in his favor."
3d. That if a party voluntarily receives the benefit of a
partial execution, "he cannot afterwards treat the descriptive
' 8 Law Times, 207, April, 1863.

Dec. 1864.]

LOWBER

v.

BANGS.

Reply for the owners.

statement as a condition, but only as an agreement, for
breach of which he may bring an action to recover damages."
4th. That the doctrine of some of the cases relied on by
the defendant in error, that a descriptive statement of this
kind "may be regarded as a mere representation, if the object
of the charter-party be still practicable, but may be construed
as a warranty, if that object turns out to be frustrated," is
unsound, "because the instrument, it should seem, ought to
be construed with reference to the intention of the parties
at the time it was made, irrespective of events which may
afterwards occur."
Mr. Bartlett referred also to Glahom v. Hays,* Oliver v.
-ielden,t Orookewit v. Fletcker,t and to Ollive v. Booker;§ reading from and relying upon them.
leply: The case of Behn v. Burness, in the Exchequer
Chamber, does not apply. There the words, "now in the
port of Amsterdam," in a charter-party, were held to be a
condition. The court, however, did not question the decisions in Tarrabohiav. Hickie, .Dimech v. Corlett, and Clipsham
v. Vertue, or question any other cases in which it was held
that a stipulation that a vessel will sail with all convenient
speed, or within a reasonable time, is only an agreement,
and not a condition. The court held only that there was a
distinction between "stipulations that some future thing
shall be done, or shall happen," and "statements in a contract, descriptive of the subject-matter of it, or of some material incident thereof." The decision was based upon the
ground that the statement that the vessel "was now in the
port of Amsterdam," was of a definite fact at the date of
the contract, and was not a stipulation as to the future. In
the charter-party of the Mary Bangs, the clause "ship to
proceea from Melbourne to Calcutta with all possible despatch," is merely a stipulation that a future thing should
1w done, and cannot, according to any of the principles stated
* 2 Manning and Granger, 257.

1 Hurlstone & Norman, 912.

t 4 Exchequer, 185.
1 Exchequer, 416.

LOWBER V.

BANGS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

in the opinion in Behn v. Burness, in the Exchequer Chamber, amount to a condition.
Mr. Justice SWAY-E delivered the opinion of the court
The question is, whether it was a condition precedent.
that the ship should proceed directly from Melbourne to
Calcutta; or, in other words, whether these clauses constitute a warranty, or are merely a representation.
"The construction to be put upon contracts of this sort
depends upon the intention of the parties, to be gathered
from the language of the individual instrument. Whether
particular stipulations are to be considered conditions precedent, or not, must, in all cases, solely depend upon that
intention, as it is gathered from the instrument itself."*
"All mercantile contracts ought to be construed according
to their plain meaning, to men of sense and understanding,
and not according to forced and refined constructions, which
are intelligible only to lawyers, and scarcely to them."t
"The rule has been established, by a long series of adjudications in modern times, that the question whether covenants are to be held dependent or independent of each
other, is to be determined by the intention and meaning of
the parties, as it appears on the instrument, and by the
application of common sense, to each particular case, and
to which intention, when once discovered, all technical forms
of expression must give way; and one of the means of discovering such intention has been laid down with great accuracy by Lord Ellenborough, in the case of -Ritchiev. Atkinson,.
to be this: that when mutual covenants go to the whole
consideration, on both sides, they are mutual conditions, the
one precedent to the other; but where the covenants go only
to a part, then a remedy lies in the covenant to recover
damages for the breach of it, but it is not a condition pre.
cedent."§
* Seegur v. Duthie, 8 Common Bench, N. S., 63.
t Crookewit v. Fletcher, 1 Hurlstone & Norman, 912.
10 East, 295.
Stayers v. Curiing, 3 Bingham's New Cases, 355

Dec. 1864.]

IJOWBER v. BANGS.

Opinion of the court.

Rules have been elaborately laid down, and discussed in
many cases, for determining the legal character of covenants,
and their relations to each other; but all the leading authorities concur in sustaining these propositions.
Contracts, where their meaning is not clear, are to be
construed in the light of the circumstances surrounding the
parties when they were made, and the practical interpretation which they, by their conduct, have given to the provisions in controversy.*
This charter-party bears date on the 4th day of June,
1858. The vessel was then on her way to Melbourne. The
agreed facts warrant the conclusion, that the owner believed
confidently that she would reach Melbourne in advance of
the mail, which would carry to her master advice of the
charter-party. It was also probable that she might engage
her freight before the master could receive the advice. On
the other hand, it was improbable that. she would have discharged her cargo and have left Melbourne before the mail
arrived. Hence, no provision was made by the owners for
any other contingency than that she should have become
engaged. In that event, they were not to be bound; and
the charterers required it to be stipulated, simply, that if not
engaged, she should proceed with all possible despatch from
Melbourne to Calcutta.
Promptitude in the fulfilment of engagements is the life
of commercial success. The state of the market at home
and abroad, the solvency of houses, the rates of exchange
and of freight, and various other circumstances which go to
control the issues of profit or loss, render it more important
in the enterprises of the trader than in any other business.
Tue result of a voyage may depend upon the day the vessel
arrives at her port of destination, and the time of her arrival
may be controlled by the day of her departure from the
port whence she sailed. We cannot forget these considerations in our search for the meaning of this contract. That
* Simpson v. Henderson et al., 1 Moody & Malkin (22 English Common
Law), 813; Hasbrcek v. Paddock, 1 Barbour S. 0. 635; French v. Carbart,
1 Comstock, 105.
VOL. IL

47

738

LOWBER v. BANGS.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

the parties could have intended that when the vessel left
Melbourne she might wander in any direction over the Indian seas, and that whenever and wherever she should
receive intelligence of the contract, she might proceed to
Calcutta and claim its fulfilment by the charterers, strikes
us as incredible. So to hold, we think, would be to make a
new contract for the parties, and not to execute the one they
have made. We cannot give any other construction to the
language, "the ship to proceed from Melbourne to Calcutta
with all possible despatch," than that she was to proceed
direct from one place to the other, and that to this extent,
at least, time was intended to be made of the essence of the
contract. We lay out of view the state of things at Calcutta
when the vessel arrived there. To allow that to control our
conclusion, would be to make the construction of the contract depend, not upon the intention of the parties when it
was entered into, but upon the accidents of the future.
We will now advert to the authorities to which our attention has been directed. Tarrabochiav. Hickie, Dimech v. Corlett,
Clipsham v. Vertue, and _Freeman v. Taylor, are in point
for the defendants in error, and seem to sustain the views
of their counsel. In these cases it was held, that unless the
delay was so great as to frustrate the object of the charterers
in making the contract, it was not material to the rights of
the parties. In two of them the delay was produced by the
deviation of the vessel from the direct course to- the port
where she was to receive her lading.
The authorities relied upon in behalf of the plaintiffs in
error are equally cogent. In Glaholm v. Hays, the language
of the charter-party was, "the vessel to sail iTom England
on or before the 4th day of February next." This was held
to be a condition precedent. Chief Justice Tindal said this
language imported the same thing as if it had been "conditioned to sail," or "warranted to sail on or before such
a day." In Oliver v. Fielden et al., the contract, as set out in
the declaration, was that " the ship called the Lydia, ....
then on the stocks at Quebec, to be launched and ready to
receive cargo in all the month of May, 1848, and guaranteed

Dec. 1 864.]

LOWBER

v.

BANGS.

Opinion of the court.

by the owners to sail in all June, A. D. 1848," &c., should
be loaded by the factors of the charterers, &c. It was held
that the readiness to receive a cargo in all ifay was a warranty, and that in an action for not loading the vessel, a plea
stating that the ship was not ready to receive a cargo "in
all May," was good on general demurrer. Pollock, Chief
Baron, said, "The stipulation as to the vessel being ready
to receive a cargo in May is not mere description, but part
of the contract, and forms a condition precedent to the-plaintiff's right to recover." Irookewit v. Fletcher presented the
same point, and was ruled in the same way. In Ollive v.
Booker, the vessel was described as "now at sea, having
sailed three weeks ago, or thereabouts." It was held, that
the time at which the vessel sailed was material, and that
the statement in the charter-party amounted to a warranty.
The most recent and most important authority brought to
our notice is Behn v. _Burness. It was agreed by the charterparty, in that case, that the ship then "in the port of Amsterdam . . . should, with all possible despatch, proceed to

Newport, in Monmouthshire," and there take in cargo. At
the date of the contract the ship was not at Amsterdam, but
at another place sixty-two miles distant from there. Being
detained by contrary winds, she did not reach Amsterdam
until the 28d of October. She discharged her cargo as
speedily as possible, and proceeded direct to Newport, where
she arrived on the 1st of December. The defendant refused
to load her. The plaintiff sued for damages, and the defendant pleaded that the ship was not at Amsterdam at the time
of the making of the contract. The Queen's Bench ruled
in favor of the plaintiff, and he recovered. The defendant
took the case, by a writ of error, to the Court of Exchequer,
and that court reversed the judgment of the Queen's Bench.
The opinioL of the reversing court is characterized by force
and clearness, and the leading authorities on the subject are
examined. The court say: "We feel a difficulty in acceding to the suggestion that appears to have been, to some
extent, sanctioned by high authority (see Dimech v. Corlett),
that a statement of this kind in a charter-party, which may

740

LoWBR v. BANGS.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

be regarded as a mere representation, if the object of the
ciiarter-party be still practicable, may be construed as a warranty, if that object turns out to be frustrated, because the
instrument, it should seem, ought to be construed with reference to the intention of the parties at the time it was made,
irrespective of the events which may afterwards occur."
Referring to Freeman v. Taylor, Tarrabochia v. Hickie, and
-Dimechv. Corlett, they say: "But the court did not, we apprehend, intend to say that the frustration of the voyage
would convert a stipulation into a condition, if it were not
originally intended to be one." They evidently felt embarrassed by the prior adjudications, which take a different view
of the subject, and an effort is made to reconcile them with
the decision they were about to pronounce. Here we have
no such embarrassment, and we think we shall settle wisely
the important principles of commercial law involved in this
controversy by following the case of Behn v. Burness.
Upon reason, principle, and authority, we are of opinion
that the stipulation before us is a condition precedent, and
not a mere representation, nor an independent covenant,
and that it goes to the entire root of the contract.
and the cause remanded for further
proceedings, in conformity to this opinion.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, dissenting.
I am not able to concur in the judgment of the court in
this case, and inasmuch as the questions presented for decision are of general importance, I think it proper to state
the reasons for my dissent.
Present defendants, as the owners of the ship Mary Bangs,
brought the suit in the court below to recover damages of
the charterers for refusing to load the ship as they had covenanted and agreed to do.
Charterers resided in Philadelphia, and the owners of the
ship resided in Boston. Charter-party was executed by the
defendants at Philadelphia, on the ninth day of June, 1858,
and was received by the plaintiffs in Boston on the eleventh

Dec. 1864.]

LOWBERI

v. BANGS.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

of the same month. Contract was for a voyage from Calcutta to Philadelphia, New York, or Boston, one port only,
at charterers' option; but they were to give the necessary
orders upon the subject before the ship sailed from Calcutta.
When the contract was made the ship was "on her passage
from New York to Melbourne," as appears by the introductory recitals of the charter-party.
Voyage is described, as before mentioned, and immediately following that description is the clause which gives
rise to the controversy. "Ship to proceed from Melbourne
to Calcutta with all possible despatch." Owners engaged,
among other things, that the vessel should be kept seaworthy, and be provided with men and provisions, and with
every requisite during the voyage. On the other hand, the
charterers engaged to load the ship, and to provide, as part
of th6 cargo, suftcient saltpetrefor ballast, and what broken
stowage the master might require, so that the ship might
be loaded full and in a safe and seaworthy manner, and to
reasonable draft. Price to be paid for the charter was thirteen dollars per customary ton for whole packages, and half
price for broken stowage. Forty running lay days were
allowed for loading the ship, and the charterers agreed to
pay ninety dollars demurrage for every day the ship should
be detained beyond that time, if the detention was by their
fault or that of their agent.
Recitals of the charter-party also show that the vessel
sailed from New York, on her passage to Melbourne, on the
third day of May, prior to the date of the charter, and the
parties agree that such a voyage usually occupied from
ninety to one hundred and thirty days, and that it would
usually require from two to seven weeks for the vessel to
discharge her cargo and get ready to sail. Terms of the
charter-party required that the owners should use the most
direct means to forward instruction to the master, with a
-opy of the charter, ordering it to be fulfilled, and the agreed
statement shows that on the same day they received the
charter-party from Philadelphia they complied with that
stipulation.

LOWBER V. BANGS.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

First instructions were sent by a sailing vessel; but they
also sent similar instructions by the overland mail, and in
various other ways. Copies of the same instructions were
also sent to Singapore and Batavia; and in fact the parties
agree that there were no more direct means for forwarding
instructions than such as were used by the owners. Steamer
carrying the overland mail, which left England in July, 1858,
broke down, and the consequence was that the instructions
sent to Melbourne did not arrive there so early by a month
as was expected by the parties. Vessel arrived at Melbourne
on the seventh day of August, 1858, and her cargo was all
discharged and she was ready to sail in thirty days after her
arrival. Master waited for the mail until the sixteenth of
September, but none arrived, and then he sailed for Manilla,
seeking business.
Instructions reached the master at Manilla, and on the
receipt of the same the master got his vessel ready and
sailed for Calcutta to fulfil the charter. Record shows that
the vessel arrived there on the twenty-sixth day of February
following, and that the master on the same day called on the
agent of the charterers, and he declined to load the ship.
I. Two principal positions are assumed by the defendants,
to show that the owners of the vessel ought not to prevail
upon the merits.
1. They insist that, by the true construction of the charterparty, it was a condition precedent to the covenant or promise to load the vessel, that when the master received the
instructions to fulfil the charter the vessel should be found
at Melbourne disengaged, and that she should proceed direct
from there with all possible despatch to the port specified in
the charter.
2. Secondly, they insist that the long period which elapsed
before the vessel arrived at Calcutta, although the delay was
without fault either of the master or owners, discharged
them as charterers from any obligation to furnish a cargo.
Nothing can be more certain than the fact that the two
questions presented involve widely different considerations.
Obviously, one is purely a question of construction, and must

Dec. 1864.]

.LOWBER. v. BANGS°

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

be determined from the language of the charter-party when
applied to the subject-matter, and considered in view of the
surrounding circumstances as they existed at the time it was
executed; while the other is a mixed question of law and
fact, depending in a great measure upon the evidence exhibited in the record. Looking at the subject in that light,
it is manifest that any commingling of the question is wholly
inadmissible, and can only promote misconception and lead
to confusion.
Province of construction can never extend beyond the
language employed as applied to the subject-matter and the
surrounding circumstances contemporaneous with the instrument.*

General rule is, that the terms of a contract are to be understood in their plain, ordinary, and popular sense, unless
they have, in respect to the subject-matter, as by the knownusage of trade, or the like, acquired a peculiar sense; but
courts of justice are not denied the same light and information the parties enjoyed when the contract was executed.
On the contrary, they may acquaint themselves with the
persons and circumstances that are the subjects of the statements in the written agreement, and are entitled to place
themselves in the same situation as the parties who made
the contract, so as to view the circumstances as they viewed
them, and so to judge of the meaning of the words and of
the correct application of the language to the things described.t
Substance of the first proposition of the defendants is,
that the clause, "ship to proceed from Melbourne to Calcutta, with all possible despatch," amounts to a warranty
that the ship, when the instructions with the charter should
be received by the master, would be found at Melbourne,
and that inasmuch as she had left that port before the instructions arrived, and did not proceed from that port direct
to the port of lading, they are discharged from all obliga* Barreda et al. v. Silsbee et al., 21 Howard, 161.
t Shore v. Wilion, 9 Clark & Finnelly, 569; Clayton v. Grayson, 4 Neville
&Manning, 606; Addison on Contracts, 846.

LOWBER

v.

BANGS.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

tions under the charter-party. Consequence of the breach
of a covenant or promise on one side, which is a condition
precedent, undoubtedly is that the proof of the fact is a sufficient excuse for the entire disregard of all the dependent
covenants or promises by the other party. Such a construction of a charter-party is never favored by courts of justice.
Whether or not a particular covenant by one party be a
condition precedent, the breach of which will dispense with
the performance of the contract by the other, says Lord Tenterden, is a question to be determined according to the fair
intention of the parties, to be collected from the language
employed by them; but an intention to make any particular
stipulation a condition precedent should be clearly and unambiguously expressed.*
Speaking of this subject, Mr. Parsons, in the last edition
of his valuable Treatise on Maritime Law, says that the
doctrine of dependent covenants, as at common law, sometimes works great hardship, if not injustice, but adds, that
as applied to contracts relating to shipping it is seldom laid
down without a distinct and adequate reference to the intention of the parties and the actualjustice of the case. Indeed,
it may almost be said, remarks the same learned author, that
there is a presumption of law, for there is certainly a strong
disposition of the courts, against such a construction of a
covenant or promise as will make it a condition precedent.
Reason for the rule, as suggested by the same commentator,
is that the construction which disconnects the promises and
obliges each party to satisfy the other for so much of his
promises as he has kept, saving his right to indemnity for
any promises which are broken, will, in the vast majority
of cases, do justice, complete justice, to both parties.t
Charter-parties, it should be remembered, are commercial
instruments, subject to the rules applicable to commercial
contracts, where the rule of construction, as universally
acknowledged, is that it shall be liberal, agreeably to the
* Abbott on Shipping (Ed. 1854), 868.
t 1 Parsons's Maritime Law, 272.

Dec. 1864.]

LOWBER V. BANGS.
Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

intention of the parties, and conformable to the usages of
trade in general, and to the particular trade to which the
contract relates.*
Intention unquestionably is the primary consideration,
and when that is ascertained, under the rules already suggested, all artificial forms of expression, as was well said in
Stevens v. Curtingt must give way. Applying these rules to
the present case, it is clear, beyond controversy, that the
views of the defendants cannot be sustained. Suppose it
were otherwise, however, and that the construction and
meaning of the charter-party, instead of being controlled
by those liberal and equitable rules, to which reference ,has
been made, and which have been followed for centuries in
all commercial jurisdictions, must be determined by the
application of the sternest technicalities ever applied in a
common law court to a building or other construction contract, still, I am of the opinion that the clause in question
cannot be construed to be a condition precedent without
doing violence to the language employed by the parties,
when rightly applied to the subject-matter of the contract,
and justly compared with other parts of the same instrument.
The purpose of the contract was to let and hire the ship
for a voyage from Galcutta to a port in the United States.
Defendants had no merchandise on hand, and they had not
sent out any agent to make the purchases. Time, frequently
a long time, is required to purchase large cargoes in that
market. Adventure was to be undertaken in a distant port
which would involve great expense, and that expense would
be greatly increased if the vessel or vessels were sent from
the ports of the United States without a profitable outward
cargo. Preference, therefore, was given by the charterers
to vessels navigating in those seas. They accordingly applied to the plaintiffs; but both parties knew that it was
impossible to foreknow on what precise day the vessel would
arrive at her port of destination, or how long it would.take
*Abbott on Shipping, 352.

t- 3 Bingham's New Cases, 855.

LOWBER v. BANGS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

her to unload and get ready to sail, or the precise length of
time that would be required for the voyage to Calcutta. All
these matters were known to be involved in uncertainty, and
it is equally obvious that they knew that the owners might
not be able to forward the instructions to the master before
he would arrive at Melbourne, discharge his vessel, and sail
seeking business. Knowing these uncertainties, the parties
incorporated into the instrument two special provisions to
protect their respective interests, which was all they could
safely do without incurring the hazard of defeating the
main purpose they had in view.
1. Owners of the ship stipulated to use the most direct
means to forward instructions to the master, with a copy of
the charter, ordering it to be fulfilled, which was obviously
inserted for the benefit of the charterers. Object of the
provision was to insure, if possible, prompt notice to the
master. But it might happen that the means of transmitting intelligence to him in that distant sea would fail until
after he had sailed from the port of destination, and had
engaged his ship, and in that event the owners, unless their
interests were also protected by some suitable provision,
would be liable at law to the defendants, or the last charterers, in damages.
2. Special provision was accordingly made, that if it happened that the ship should arrive at Melbourne before the
instructions, and the master should have engaged the ship
before receiving them, the charter should be null.
Both of these provisions are plainly dependent covenants,
and they show to a demonstration, as was well said by
Erle, Oh. J., in Seeger v. Duthie,* that the parties, when they
intended to make a condition precedent, or a dependent
covenant, knew how to carry that intention into effect. But
they made no stipulation as to the time when the ship should
arrive at Melbourne, nor as to the day when the cargo should
be discharged, nor the day she should sail to fulfil the contract, nor the day when she should arrive at Calcutta. Stipu.
* 8 J. Scott, N. S., 66.

Dec. 1864.]

LOWBER

v.

BANGS.

Opinion of Clifford, T., dissenting.

lations upon the several matters mentioned, if made, might
defeat the object in view, which both parties desired to
avoid, and looking at the surrounding circumstances, it is
quite clear that if they had been inserted they would have
been of no special importance to the defendants. They had
chartered two other vessels to be employed in the same
commercial adventure. When this charter was executed
they had purchased no merchandise at Calcutta, and the
agent they afterwards appointed to make the purchases for
the three vessels was still in the United States. Charters
for the other two vessels were executed about the same time
as that of the Mary Bangs, and the agreed statement shows
that one of them at that time was on a voyage from Liverpool to Calcutta, and the other was at Callao waiting orders.
Attending circumstances negative the assumption that the
interests of the charterers required anything more than
ordinary expedition, and there is not a word in the charterparty to favor that view, outside of the clause under consideration.
Some stress is laid, in the opinion of the court, upon the
words, "with all possible despatch," and the argument is,
that they must have the same effect as a stipulation for a day
certain. Covenant that the ship shall be at or sail from a
certain place on a certain day, and there to receive cargo,
says Mr. Parsons, is a condition precedent, and if she is not
there on that day the freighter is discharged from all obligation to load her, as the condition,, in that state of the
case, is not fulfilled.* Such was the case of Glaholm v.
.Hays,t decided in 1841, and referred to in the opinion of
the court.
Contract, in that case, was as follows: "the vessel to sail
from England on or before the fourth day of February
next;" and it was held, and well held, that the clause was a
condition precedent. Where, also, there is a definite statement of a material existing fact, as that "the ship is now in
the port of Amsterdam," the better opinion is, that it is a
* 1 Parsons' Maritime Law, 271.

M anning & Granger, 257.

LOWBER

v.

BAINGS.

[Sup. COt

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

warranty, and not a mere representation, and consequently
is synonymous with precedent condition. Decision of the
Exchequer Chamber, in Behn v. Burncss,* is to that effect, and
I have no doubt it is correct. Question presented on the
,harter-party, say the court in that case, is confined to the
statement of a definite fact, and they add that if the statement of the place of the ship is a substantive part of the
contract, it seems to us that we ought to hold it to be a condition, unless we can find in the contract itself, or the surrounding circumstances, reason for thinking that the parties
did not so intend. But where the stipulation as to time is
not of a day certain, or where the statement relied on is not
of an existing fact, or is expressed in indefinite terms, the
rule is otherwise by all the authorities. Take, for example,
the case of Constable v. Cloberie,t which is an early case upon
the subject. Covenant was to sail with the first wind, and
the covenant was not performed; but the court held that the
covenant was not a condition precedent.
Material clause of the charter-party in Bornman v. Tooke,t
was "to sail with the first favorable wind direct to the port
of Portsmouth;" but the ship deviated, and unnecessarily
entered another harbor, where she was detained several
weeks, by means whereof the charterer was put to additional expense for insurance upon the cargo. Held, that
the covenant to sail, as above, was not a condition precedent, and that the deviation could not be given in evidence
in bar of the action.
Origin of the true criterion by which to determine whether
a particular covenant is to constitute a condition precedent
or not, is to be found in the case of Boone v. Eyre,§ which
was decided by Lord Mansfield. Where mutual covenants
go to the whole of the consideration on both sides, said the
judge, they are mutual conditions, the one precedent to
the other. But where they go only to a part, as where a
breach may be paid for in damages, there the defendant has
8 Law Times, N. S., 207.
I Campbell, 376.

f" Palmer, 397.
S1 Ht. Blaekstone, 273

Dec. 1864.]

LOWBEOR V. BANGS.
Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

a remedy on the contract, and shall not plead it as a condi,
tion precedent. Same rule was laid down by Lord Ellenborough in Ritche v. Atkinson,* decided twenty years later.
Stipulation, in that case, was that the ship should, "with
all convenient speed, sail and proceed" to a certain port,
and there take on board a complete cargo, and therewith proceed to another port and deliver the same, and the
evidence showed that she did, not bring home more than
half what she could have carried. Judgment was that the
covenant was not a condition precedent, but that the master
might recover freight for a short cargo at the stipulated
rates, subject to the right of the freighter to recover damages
for such short delivery.
Ruling of Lord Ellenborough in .Havelock v. Giddes et al.,t
is to the same effect. Covenant of the owner in that case
was, that he would "forthwith at his own expense make the
ship tight and strong," and it appeared that the owner was
in, default. Decision was that the covenant was not a condition precedent, but merely gave the charterers a right in
a counter- action to such damages as they could prove they
had sustained, from the neglect. Subsequently the same
question was presented for a third time to the same court
in .Davidson v. G-wynn,. and it was ruled in the same way.
Particular phrase in that case was, "to sail with the first
convoy," and the master neglected to do as directed. Seriatim opinions, were delivered by the judges, and they all
held that it was not a condition precedent, but a, distinct
covenant, for a breach of which, the party injured might be
compensated in damages. Nonperformance on one side, in
order to justify the conclusion that the stipulation requiring
it is a condition precedent, must go to the entire substance

of the contract, and to the whole consideration, so that it
may safely be inferred as the intent and just construction
of the contract, that if the act to be performed on the one
side is not done, there is no consideration for the stipulation
on the other side. Proof of the breach of an express or im
* 10 East, 295.

t lO East, 555.

I 12 East, 881.

LOWBER V. BAN[S.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

plied covenant on one side is not sufficient, not even if it is
attended with some loss and damage to the other, because
if it does not go to the whole consideration, and the loss can
be compensated in damages, the construction must be that the
stipulation is independent, and the losing party, under such
circumstances, is not absolved from performance on his part 41
Repeated decisions confirm this rule, and indeed it may
almost be said that it is universally approved. Reference
will now be made to some of the more modern cases decided
in the courts of the parent country. Excuse for that course,
if any be needed, will be found in the opinion of the court,
which assumes that those cited by the defendants are inconsistent with those cited by the plaintiffs, which in my judgment is error. Plaintiffs refer to Freeman v. Taylor,t which
is regarded as a leading case.
Terms of the charter-party were that the ship should proceed to the Cape of Good Hope, and having there discharged
cargo, should "proceed with all convenient despatch to Bombay," where the freighter engaged to put on board a cargo
of cotton for England. Master, instead of conforming to the
stipulation, wilfully deviated, causing a delay of six weeks,
and in consequence of the deviation the agent of the defendants refused to load the vessel. Case was tried before Tindal, Chief Justice, and he charged the jury that, inasmuch
as the freighter might bring his action against the owner
and recover damages for any ordinary deviation, he could
not for such a deviation put an end to the contract; but if
the deviation was so long and unreasonable that, in the ordinary course of mercantile concerns, it might be said to have
put an end to the whole object the freighter had in view in
chartering the ship, in that case the contract might be considered at an end, and he left it to the jury to decide whether
the delay was of such a nature as to have put an end to the
ordinary objects the freighter might have had in view when
he entered into the contract.
* Mill-dam Foundry v. Hovey, 21 Pickering, 439; Bennet v. Pixley, 7
Johnson, 249; Smith's Mercantile Law (6th London ed.), 312, 324.
f"8 Bingham, 124

Dec. 1864.]

LOWBER v. BANGS.
Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

Rule ni, to set aside the verdict, was granted, but the
whole court held that the instructions were right. Precisely
the same views were expressed by Lord Denman and his
associates in Clipsham v. VTertue ct al.,* which is admitted to
be in point for the plaintiffs. Stipulation in the charter was
to load and "forthwith proceed to the port of destination."
Delay ensued and the charterers refused to load. Suit was
brought by the owners, -and the defendants pleaded that the
vessel did not arrive at the port of lading until after an unreasonable delay. Plaintiffs demurred, and the plea was
held bad because it did not show that the delay frustrated
the voyage.
Reliance is placed by the defendants upon the case of
Oliver v. Fielden et al.,t which was decided in 1849, by Pollock, 0. B., and his associates. Essential clause of the charter
party, dated the 28th of March, 1848, was that the ship, then
on the stocks at Quebec, should "be launched and ready to
receive cargo in all May" next following the date of the
charter. Action was by the owners for a refusal to load.
Plea that "the ship was not launched and ready to receive
cargo in all May," as stipulated. Demurrer by plaintiff and
joinder by defendants.
Court held that the readiness to receive cargo in all May
was a condition precedent. Beyond question the ruling was
correct upon the ground that a definite limitation of time is
precisely equivalent in principle to a day certain. Pleadings, therefore, presented a case where the condition precedent was clearly and unambiguously expressed. Authorities cited by the court furnish indubitable evidence that such
was the view taken of the case at the time of the decision.
They cited Glaholm v. Hays,T and Olive v. Booker,§ where
the decision turned upon a statement material in character
and of an existing definite fact.
Statement was that the vessel is "now at sea, having
sailed three weeks ago, or thereabouts," which was a mate.
* 5 Adolphus & Ellis, N. S., 265.

t 2 Manning & Granger, 257.

t 4 Exchequer, 185.
1 Id. 416.

LOWBER v. BANG.[

[Sup.. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

rial statement and wholly untrue, and the court held that it
was a warranty, and it is not possible to see how it could
have been held otherwise. Unless I am greatly mistaken,
these explanations are sufficient to show that the case or
Oliver v. Fielden et al., and the cases therein referred to by
the court, run entirely clear of the question involved in this
case. Should further confirmation of the proposition, how.
ever, be needed, it will be found in the case of Terrabochiav.
Hikie,* decided in 1856, by the same court which seven
years previously decided the case of Oliver v. .ielden et al.,
on which the defendants rely.
Provision of the charter-party was, that the ship "being
tight, stanch, and strong, and every way fitted for the voyage, should, with all possible speed, sail and proceed" to a
certain port, and there load a full and complete cargo in the
customary manner. Breach alleged was, that the defendants
made default in loading the agreed cargo. Second plea was,
that the ship did not, with convenient speed, or in a reasonable time in that behalf, sail or proceed to the port of
lading, insomuch that by reason thereof the object of the
charter-party and of the voya ge was wholly frustrated.
Issue was joined and the parties went to trial. Jury found1. That the vessel did not proceed with reasonable speed
and diligence.
2. That the whole object of the voyage was not thereby
defeated.
3. That the vessel was not fitted for her voyage when she
sailed for the port of lading, but that she was so fitted when
she arrived at that port.
Verdict was entered for the defendant, with leave to the
plaintiff to move to enter a verdict in his favor. Rule to
show cause was accordingly granted, and the questions were
fully argued. Separate opinions were given by Pollock, C.
B., and his associates, and they unanimously decided that
the stipulation referred to was not a condition precedent.
Opinion of the Chief Baron is a very able one, going ovei
*1

Hurlstone & Norman, 183.

Dec. 1864.]

LOWBER v. BANGS.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

the whole ground and reviewing the principles involved in
all the preceding cases. All of the cases decided prior to
1857, when the judgment was given for the plaintiff, were
cited at the argument, and it does not appear to have even
occurred to the learned Baron that he was guilty of any
inconsistency in pronouncing the judgment.
Special reference was made to the remark of Maule, J., in
Glaliobn v. -Hays,* that if the covenant to sail on a day certain was a condition precedent, then it might be said that a
covenant to sail in a reasonable time should be held to have
the same effect; and the answer to the suggestion, if such
the remark can be called, was that the distinction between
the two cases was obvious, which in my judgment is a sufficient answer to every argument of the kind.t
Repetition of the explanation as to what the distinction is,
it seems to me, is unnecessary, as it has already been stated
in language as clear as I can employ. Same distinction is
explained by Erle, Oh. J., in Seeger v. Duthie,, in a manner
entirely satisfactory. Principle of the distinction, as explained in the case of Dimech v.- Cortlett,§ is that a contract
that a thing shall be done on a day named is in itself certain
and defned, because it excludes all consideration of future
circumstances; and the same remark is equally applicable
to a positive statement of a definite existing fact, if it is material to the object of the instrument. But a contract that
the thing shall be done with all convenient speed, say the,
court, necessarily admits a consideration of all the future
circumstances; and different minds may plausibly enough
come to different conclusions as to what is "all convenient
speed." Execution of the charter-party in that case was at
Malta. Clauses to be noticed are as follows:
1. That the ship is "now at anchor in this port."
2. That she shall, "with all convenient speed, proceed in
ballast to Alexandria, in Egypt, and there load a full cargo."
* 2 Manning & Granger, 263.

t Same v. Same, 88 English Law & Equity, 339; Hurst v. Usborne, 18 C.
B., 144.
8 J. Scott, N. S., 64.
12 Moore, Privy Council, 228.
VOL. U.
48

LOWBER

v). B3ANGS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

Report of the case shows that she was neither at anchor
in port nor entirely coppered, but was then in a dry-dock
undergoing repairs. Failure to furnish the cargo was the
ground of the action, and the decision in the colonial court
was against the owner, who prosecuted the appeal.

Ques-

tions were fully argued, and all the authorities of a date
prior to the judgment, which was pronounced in 1858, were
reviewed. Conclusion was that neither of the stipulations
was a condition precedent, but the decision in respect to the
first one turned upon the question of intention, as collected
from the whole instrument. Ruling on the second point
was undoubtedly correct. Opinion was given by Sir John
T. Coleridge. He first stated the propositions submitted by
the plaintiff, which were that the failing to sail within a reasonable time or with convenient speed was no answer to the
action on the contract, and that the case was governed by
the general law of mercantile contracts. Having stated the
propositions he proceeds to say: "'e
agree to both parts
of the argument. Parties," said the judge, "have not in this
cage expressly stated for themselves in the charter-party that
unless the vessel sailed by a specified day the charter-party
should be at an end, and courts ought to be slow to make
such a stipulation for them." Court of Exchequer also recognized the same distinction in the case of Crookewit v.
Pktcher et al.,* decided in 1857. Words of the charter-party
were, ship "now in Amsterdam, and to sail from thence for
Liverpool on or before the 15th of 'arch next," and the
court held, on the authority of Glaholm v. Hays, Olive v.
Booker, and Oliver v. Fielden et al., that the stipulation as to
sailing on,the day named was a condition precedent, but the
court expressly say, "We entirely agree with the judgment
of the Lord Chief Baron, in Terrabochiav. Hiccie, who clearly
points out the distinction between a stipulation to sail on a
particular' day and any general stipulation as to sailing ' in
a convenient time,' or other words of the same description."t
f

40 English Law and Equity, 415.
Same v. Same, .1 Hurlstone & Norman, 912,

Dec. 1864.]

LOWBER

v.

:BANGS.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

Some answer ought to be given to this long and unbrolkeAi
course of judicial decisions almost unparalleled for their
ability and consistency in any other branch of commercial
law. Attempt is made to ffirnish an answer, aid what is it?
1. Suggestion is made that the phrase, "with all possible
despatch," is inore intensified than any of the expressions
found in the cases cited by the plaintiffs. Shadowy as the
theory appears, still it deserves fo'be examined on ac;ount
of the source from which it is suggested. None will pretend, I suppose, that the phrase "cwith all possible despatch"
is more intensified than the phrase "as soon as possible,"
which is one of daily use; ai'd yet it was held, in the dase
of Atwood et al. v. Pomeroy,* decided in 1856 that the latter
phrase means within a reasonable time, regaild beiftg had
to the surrounding ircumstances; and it is not b'elieved that
there is a decision to the contrary in any jurisdiction where
our language is spoken. Ooflsidefed in fhe light of that
decision, it is obvious that the suggestion is entirely unsubstantial and withoii m'erit. Another suggestion is that the
contract was not to attach at all, iiile's the master received
the instructibn before he sailed. BTit the parties inserted
no such stipulation into the charter-party, and I think that
courts ofjustice oight to' e slow to r3Ake such a stipulation
for them.t
They provided that if the ship happened to arrive at the
port of discharge 1tefore the instractions, and the master should
have engaged his ship before feceiving them, the charffer should
be null, but they made no other provision fo the fefhtination of the charter, and it is confidentfy believed that the
suggestion is Vtterly inconsistent, not only with the intent
of the parties, but with the whole scope add Pvitpos6 of the
instrument.. Sup~pose the vessel had sailed direct for Calcutta, and the day after the vessel left the wharf at the port
of discharge shd had,met the British steamer ai'd the master
had r'eceived his instructions, or suppose the ship, insteacd
* 1 J. Scott, N. S., 110.
- Dimech v. Cortlett, 12

Privy Council, 227
61fTbre,

LOWBER V.

BANGS.

[Sup. ut

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

of being met on the day after she sailed, had proceeded on
her voyage and touched at Singapore or Batavia, and the
master had received his instructions at one or the other of
those places, or suppose the ship, instead of touching at one
of those ports, had proceeded direct to Calcutta, and on her
arrival there the master had met his instructions and had
immediately tendered the ship, under the charter-party, all
would agree, I think, that it would be impossible to hold, if
the defendants had refused to load, that they would not have
been liable on the covenants of the charter-party. Would
any one pretend, in the case last supposed, that if the master,
instead of tendering the ship, had refused to fulfil the
charter, that the owners would not have been liable? I
think not, and yet, if they would have been liable in the
case supposed, it can only be upon the ground that the clause
in question is not a condition precedent, because the proposition concedes that the charter attached, notwithstanding
the ship had sailed.
Defendants also suggested at the argument that the case
of Graves v. Legg,* decided in 1854, was inconsistent with
the rights of the plaintiffs to recover; but I think not, for
several reasons.
1. Because it has no application to the case, being an
action upon an ordinary written agreement, and not upon a
charter-party.
2. Because, if it were inconsistent with the cases cited for
the plaintiffs, the later cases ought to be regarded as furnishing the true rule.
8. Because the decision is perfectly consistent with the
earlier and later cases to which reference has been made.
Agreement of plaintiff was to sell to the defendant certain
merchandise, to be shipped with all despatch, "and the names
of the vesels to be declared as soon as the goods were shipped."
Names of the vessels were not notified to the defendants,
and they refused to accept the goods. Held that the provision in the contract that the names of the vessels should be
t 9 Exchequer, 709.

Dec. 1864.]

LOWBER V. BANGS.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

declared as soon as the goods were shipped was a condition
precedent to the obligation of the defendants to accept and
pay for the goods. Judgment was delivered by Parke, B.,
and he approved the rule laid down in Boone v. Eyre, as the
criterion for determining whether a particular covenant is
independent or a condition.
Result of my examination is that I find no inconsistency
between the cases cited by the defendants and those cited
.by the plaintiffs. Supposed difference consists only in the
application, and therefore is unreal. Doubts were expressed
in Behn v. Burness, whether the first point ruled in .Dimech
v. Gortlett was correct, but the court finally came to the conclusion that their decision did "not at all conflict" with the
decision of the Privy Council, even on that point. First
point decided, it will be remembered, was that the statement that the ship is "now at anchor in this port" was
not a warranty, which has no application whatever in this
case. Second point decided in that case, which is the one
applicable here, was not questioned either by the bar or the
bench, and is undoubted law.* For these reasons I am of
the opinion that the clause in question is not a condition
precedent.
1:. Second objection is that the delay which ensued before
the vessel arrived at Calcutta discharged the charterers from
all obligation to furnish a cargo. Moral wrong is not imputed to the plaintifls, and it is quite clear on the facts that
perfect justice is done to both parties by regarding the provision as an independent stipulation.. Contrary conclusion
is a great hardship, as the master acted in good faith, and
employed his best exertions, after he received his instructions, to fulfil the charter. Granting that the provision is
not a condition precedent, then the rule is that unless the
deviation was of such a nature and description as to frustrate
the voyage or to deprive the freighter of the benefit of his
contract, he is not discharged from the obligation, but is
remitted to his claim in damages for any injury he may have
* Adams v. Royal Company, 5 C. B. N. S. 492.

LOWBER v. BANGS.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

sustained.* Applying that rule to the case it is quite obvious
what the result ought to be.
Agent of the defendants arrived at Calcutta on the twentyfifth of August, and remained there till the twenty-third of
January following. Names of the other vessels were the J.
P. Wheeler and the William Cummings. Former arrived
on the fourth of November, and the latter on the first of the
following month. When the William Cummings arrived
the agent had purchased, of certainarticles, enough for two
ships, but he had not purchased any sallpetrefor ballast. Part
of the merchandise so purchased was intended for the Mary
Bangs, but it was all sent by the other two vessels. Plaintiffs' ship arrived, as before stated, and the agent of the
defendants refused to load her. Freight at that time had
fallen for such a voyage to five or six dollars. Under those
circumstances the agent refused to load the ship, but he
immediately chartered another vessel of about the same tonnage to take her place, and loaded the vessel so chartered
with the funds provided to purchase a cargo for the Mary
Bangs, and the parties agree that the whole cargo was purchased after the vessel of the plaintiffs arrived.
Defendants do not venture to suggest that they have suffered any injury, and it is clear that the construction here
assumed would, in the language of Mr. Parsons, "do justice,
complete justice, to both parties." Unless the instructions
were received by the master before the vessel sailed seeking
business it must have been understood by the defendants
that some delay would necessarily ensue in the departure of
the vessel; and if, in that contingency, they had been unwilling to accept the contract, the reasonable presumption is
that they would have insisted that some more specific provision upon the subject should have been inserted in the char.
ter-party. They understood the nature and effect of a condition precedent, and if they had intended that the contract
* Freeman v. Taylor, 8 Bingham, 124; Clipsham v. Vertue, 5 Adolphus
& Ellis, N. S., 265; Seegar v. Duthie, 8 J. Scott, N. S., 45; Terrabochia v.
tlickie, 1 Hurlstone & Norman, 183; Dimech v. Cortlett, 12 Moore, Privy
Council, 227.

Dec. 1864.]

EX PARTE FLEMING.
Statement of the case.

should be null in case the vessel sailed before the master
received advices, it must be assumed that they would have
said so, "in clear and unanbiguous terms."
The truth is, they intended no such thing, but the theorj
here adopted spea:s the true intent and meaning of the contract.
Pursuant to these views I think the judgment should be
Affirmed.
NESON, J., also dissented.

Ex PARTE FLEMnDQ.
A party asking this court for a mandamus to an inferior court to make a
rule on one of its ministerial officers, as the marshal, must show clearly

his intqiest in the matter w]liqh he presents a the groi;d ef his application.

THE La'Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad Company., a railroad company of Wisconsin, jhad mortgaged its road and
other property to secure certain negotiable bonds which it
had issued. The bonds not being paid, a bill of foreclosure
was filed in the -DistrictCourt of the United States for the
Wisconsin district, the only Federal court then in that State,
and which court had at that time Circuit Court powers.
The railroad, &c., was sold by the marshal, who reported
his sale to the District Court. The sale was confkined by
that court and the purchaser placed in possession.
About the time, however, when this report and confirmation was made, Congress passed certain acts establishing
a Circuit Court for the Wisconsin district, transferring to
the new tribunal, with certain reserationsand limitations, the
powers which had previously been exercised by the District
Court. The extent, however, of the reservations and limitations above referred to was a matter not absolutely above
question. However, this court, in a case decided at the last

