DECISIONS
=NTIM

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
DECEMBER TERM, 1864.

DERMOTT V. JONES.
1. Performance of a contract to build a house for another on the soil of such
person, and that the work shall be executed, finished, and ready for use
and occupation, and be delivered over so finished and ready to the owner
of the soil, at a day named, is not excused by the fact that there was a
latent defect in the soil, in consequence of which the walls sank and
cracked, and the house, having become uninhabitable and dangerous,
had to be partially taken down and rebuilt on artificial foundations.
2. *While a special contract remains executory the plaintiff must sue upon it.
When it has been fully executed according to its terms, and nothing
remains to be done but the payment of the price, he may sue either on
it, or in indebitatus assumpsit, relying, in this last case, upon the common counts; and in either case the contract will determine the rights
of the parties.
8. When he has been guilty of fraud, or has wilfully abandoned the work,
leaving it unfinished, he cannot recover in any form of action. Where
he has in good faith fulfilled, but not in the manner nor within the
time prescribed by the contract, and the other party has sanctioned or
accepted the work, he may recover upon the common counts in indebitafu3 assumprsit.
4. He must produce the contract upon the trial, and it will be applied as far
as it can be traced; but if, by fault of the defendant, the cost of the
work or material has been increased, in so far the jury will be warranted in departing from the contract prices. In such case the defendant is entitled to recoup fur the damages he may have sustained by
the plaintiff's deviations from the contract, not induced by himself,

both as to the manner and time of the performance.

JoNEs, a mason and hottse-builder, contracted with Miss
Dermott to build a house for her, the soil on which the house
,was to be built being her own. The house was to be built
VOL. 11.

1

DERMOTT V.

JONES.

[SLp. Ct.

Statement of the case.

according to very detailed plans and specifications, which
the " architect" of Miss -Dermotthad prepared, and which were
made part of the contract. In the contract, Jones covenanted
that he would procure and supply all matters requisite for
the execution of the work "in all its parts and details, and
for the complete finish andfitting for use and occupation of all the
houses and buildings, and the several apartments of the house and
buildings, to be erected pursuant to the plan of the work described
and specified in the said schedule; and that the work, and the
several parts and parcels thereof, shall be executed, finished,
and ready for use and occupation, and be delivered over, so
finished and ready," at a day fixed. Jones built the house
according to the specifications, except in so far as Miss
Dermott had compelled him,-according to his account of
things,-to deviate from them. Owing, however, to a latent
defect in the soil, the foundation sank, the building became
badly cracked, uninhabitable, and so dangerous to passersby, that Miss Dermott was compelled to take it down, to
renew the foundation with artificial "floats," and to rebuild
that part of the structure which had given way. This she
did at a large expense. As finished on the artificial foundations the building was perfect.
Jones having sued Miss Dermott, in the Federal Court
for the District of Columbia, for the price of building, her
counsel asked the court to charge that she was entitled to
"recoup" the amount which it was necessary for her to
expend in order to render the cracked part of the house fit
for use and occupation according to the plan and specifications; an instruction which the court refused to give. The
court considered, apparently, that even under the covenant
made by Jones, and above recited, he was not responsible
for injury resulting from inherent defects in the ground, the
same having been Miss Dermott's own; and judgment went
accordingly. Error was taken here. Some other questions
were presented in the course of the trial below, and referred
to here; as, for example, How far, when a special contract
has been made, a plaintiff must sue upon it? how far he may
recover in a case where, as was said to have been the fact

DERMOTT V. JONES.

Dec. 1864.]

Argument for the builder.

here, the plaintiff had abandoned his work, leaving it unfinished? how far "acceptance,"-when such acceptance
consisted only in a party's treating as her own a house built
on her ground,-waives non-fulfilment, there being no bad
faith in the matter? and some questions of a kindred kind.
The most important question in the case, however, was the
refusal of the court to charge, as requested, in regard to the
"1recoupment :" and the correctness of that refusal rested
upon the effect of Jones's covenant to deliver, fit for use and
occupation, in connection with the latent defect of soil upon
which the foundation was built.
Messrs. Carlisle and _Davidge for the builder: In all cases of
locatio operis faciendi, where a workman undertakes to incorporate his work and materials with the property of another,
and loss is sustained in consequence of some inherent defect
in the property, the loss falls upon the employer. The
maxim of res perit domino applies. Pothier, according to
Story,* thus declares the law of France. It is also Scotch
law. By it, if the workman is employed in working the materials, or adding his labor to the property of the employer,
the risk belongs to the owner of the thing with which the
labor is incorporated.t The employer, by the code of France,
is the guarantor of the thing upon which the work and
materials of the workman are to be expended: the code of
Louisiana adopts the same rule: and the common law is the
same. "If the loss in bad execution," says Kent,t "is not
properly attributable to the fault or unskilfulness of the undertaker, or those employed by him, but arises from the
inherent defect of the thing itself; in such a case the loss is
to be borne by the employer, unless there is some agreement
by which the risk is taken by the undertaker."
Undoubtedly the plaintiff might have assumed the extraordinary responsibility alleged; but, unless it be clearly
shown that he did so, the presumption is that he contracted
* Bailments,

426.

t 1 Bell, 156, 5th ed.

12 Commentaries,

40.

DERMOTT V. JONES.

[Srap. Ct.

Argument for the owner of the soil.

for no more than the sort and degree of skill and diligence
belonging to his trade. His covenant is not the stipulation
of an insurer of anything, but is a stipulation to give his
own skill, fidelity, and diligence in the prosecution of work
undertaken in pursuance of prescribed specifications and plans.
Miss Dermott purchased, by the contract, the skill and diligence of Jones, in supplying the work and materials stipulated, and also his judgment, so far as involved in the work
and materials. But she never bought his judgment, as regarded the plans and specifications. He was never consulted
about them. On the contrary, they were prepared by her
architect, and put in his hands to work by. If he deviated
from them, he was guilty of a breach of contract, for which
he was responsible. His business was to work by, not to
override them.
It is thus apparent that the pres6nt case is not one where
an architect, employed to furnish plans and specifications, is
guilty of neglect, and of not exercising that degree of skill
and judgment which the employer prays; but is a case where
a mechanic is employed to supply work and materials according to plans and specifications which he is bound to follow.
The rule of law is that a party is responsible for the ordinary
degree of skill belonging to his trade or profession. But
Jones was not an .engineer or architect, but, as the case
states, "a mason and house-builder." Nor di.1 Miss Dermott
treat with him in any other character than that of a mechanic, competent, not to plan, but to carry out her plans. She
employed an architect, by whom the plans and specifications
were prepared. Her remedy, then, for any defects in the
plans and specifications, was by suit against the architect,
not by recoupment against Jones. The architect should have,
ascertained, if necessary, by boring or otherwise, whether
they were practicable.
Messrs. Poe and Brent contra: The counsel of the other side
do not cite one adjudged case in support of their view. The
speculat'ons of Pothier, the dicta of Story, or even the ab-

Dec. 1864.]

DERMOTT V. JONEb.
Argument for the owner of the soil.

stract opinions of Bell and Kent, are not "authority" anywhere, and ought not to be cited.
The theory of the other side makes the proprietor of the
ground an insurer to the builder of the stability and solidity
of the soil on which such builder contracts to build work.
We might deny the soundness of such a doctrine in any
case of a contract to build a house, where the payment of
the price is to be made when the work is done; because a
man cannot be said to build anything which falls down
before he completes it. But, whatever may be the general
rule, we rely, in the case here, upon the contract that this
plaintiff will furnish every material and thing requisite to
complete and finish these buildings fit for use and occupation. He does not merely covenant (as contended on the
other side) to execute these specifications, but he superadds
the contract that he will, over and above executing these,
furnish everything necessary to complete it fit for use and
occupation, and will deliver it finished and ready for occupation. The law, in cases like this, is settled and reported
law fiom at least A.D. 1670, and from the leading case of
Paradinev. Jayne, given us by the old reporter Alleyn, in 23d
Charles II. The defendant there had taken a lease, covenanting to pay rent. He pleaded "that a certain German
prince, by name Prince Rupert, an alien born, enemy to the
king and kingdom, had invaded the realm with a hostile
army of men, and with the same force did enter upon the
defendant's possession and him expelled, whereby he could
not take the profits." On demurrer, the court resolved
"that the matter of the plea was insufficient," and that "he
ought to pay his rent." "And this difference," says Alleyn,
"was taken: that where the law creates a duty or charge,
and the party is disabled to perform it without any default
in him, and hath no remedy over, there the law will excuse
him..... .But where a party by his own contract creates a
duty or charge upon himself, he is bound to make it good,
if he may, notwithstanding any accident by inevitable necessity, because he might have provided against it by his contract. And, therefore, if the lessee covenant to repair a

DERIIOTT V. JONES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the owner of the soil.

house, though it be burnt by lightning or thrown down by
enemies, yet he ought to repair it;" and the report ends by
declaring that where there is a covenant to pay, "though
the land be surrounded or gained by the sea, or made barren
by wild-fire, yet the lessor shall have his whole rent;" and
judgment went accordingly. This case has been always
followed in England. American decisions are to the same
general purpose, to wit, that a man must fulfil covenants
deliberately made. Without citing earlier ones, or quoting
at large even a late one in New York,* we refer to one
of the very latest, where the best cases, both English and
American, are collected. We mean School Trustees v. Bennett,t in New Jersey, a case which, like our own, was the case
of building a house. This case is specially in point, or at
least specially strong, for the house was there twice destroyed
by natural causes. In the first instance, when it was half
way towards completion, "a violent gale of wind arose suddenly, without any of the usual premonitory signs of a storm,
and prostrated the building:" afterwards, and when rebuilt,
"it fell, solely on account of the soil having become soft and
miry;" though, at the time the foundations were laid, the
soil was "so hard as to be penetrated with difficulty by the
pickaxe," and its defects were latent; the softness having
arisen, as was suggested, by the rising of springs; at any
rate from "natural causes wholly beyond the control of the
contractors." The court, however, was resolute, and decided that "if a person contract with the owner of a lot to
build and complete a building on a certain lot, and, by reason
of a latent defect in the soil, the building falls down before
it is completed, the loss falls upon the contractor ;" and decided even, as in the case in New York, that the owner of
the soil may recover back payments which he has made on
account. The court reviewed the authorities from Paradine
v. Jayne, in old Alleyn, down; and say, finally, "No matter
how harsh and apparently unjust in its operation the rule
may occasionally be, it cannot be denied that it has its foun* Tomkins v. Dudley, 25 New York, 272.

t 8 Dutcher, 515.

Dec. 1864.]

DERMOTT V. JONES.
Opinion of the court.

dation in good sense and inflexible honesty. He that agrees
to do an act should do it, unless absolutely impossible. He
should provide against contingencies in his contract .....
The cases make no distinction between accidents that could
be foreseen when the contract was entered into, and those
that could not have been; they all rest upon the simple
principle, ' such is the agreement,' clear and unqualified,
and it must be performed, no matter what the cost, if performance be not absolutely impossible."
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court:
The defendant in error insists that all the work he was
required to do is set forth in the specifications, and that,
having fulfilled his contract in a workmanlike manner, he is
not responsible for defects arising from a cause of which he
-was ignorant, and which he had no agency in producing.
Without examining the soundness of this proposition, it is
sufficient to say that such is not the state of the case. The
specifications and the instrument to which they are annexed
constitute the contract. They make a common context, and
must be construed together. In that instrument the defendant in error made a covenant.* That covenant it was his
duty to fulfil, and he was bound to do whatever was necessary
to its performance. Against the hardship of the case he
might have guarded by a provision in the contract. N"ot
having done so, it is not in the power of this court to relieve
-him. 'He did not make that part of the building "fit for
-use and occupation." It could not be occupied with safety
to the lives of the inmates. It is a well-settled rule of law,
that if a party by his contract charge himself with an obligation possible to be performed, he must make it good,
unless its performance is rendered impossible by the act of
God, the law, or the other party. Unforeseen difficulties,
however great, will not excuse him.t
* See supra, p. 2.

t Paradino v. Jayne, Alleyn, 27; Beal v. Thompson, 3 Bosanquet & Puller. 420; Beebe v. Johnson, 19 Wendell. 500; 3 Comyn's Digest, 93.

ibERMOTT V. JONES.

[Sup. Ct-

Opinion of the court.

The application of this principle to the class of cases to
which the one under consideration belongs is equally well
settled. If a tenant agree to repair, and the tenement be
burned down, he is bound to rebuild.* A company agreed
to build a bridge in a substantial manner, and to keep it in
repair for a certain time. A flood carried it away. It was
held that the company was bound to rebuild.t A person
contracted to build a house upon the land of another. Before
it was completed it was destroyed by fire. It was held that
he was not thereby excused from the performance of his contract.1 A party contracted to erect and complete a building on a certain lot. By reason of a latent defect in soil the
building fell down before it was completed. It was held
(School Trstees v. Bennett,ยง a case in New Jersey, cited by
counsel), that the loss must be borne by the contractor. The
analogies between the case last cited and the one under consideration are very striking. There is scarcely a remark in
the judgment of the court in that case that does not apply
here. Under such circumstances equity cannot interpose.11
The principle which controlled the decision of the cases
referred to rests upon a solid foundation of reason and
justice. It regards the sanctity of contracts. It requires
parties to do what they have agreed to do. If unexpected
impediments lie in the way, and a loss must ensue, it leaves
the loss where the contract places it. If the parties have
made no provision for a dispensation, the rule of law gives
none. It does not allow a contract fairly made to 'be annulled, and it does not permit to be interpolated what the
parties themselves have not stipulated.
We are of opinion that the plaintiff below was entitled
to recover, but that the court, in denying to the defendant
the right of recoupment, committed an error which is fatlU
to the judgment.
* Bullock v. Dommett, 6 Term, 650.
t Brecknock Company v. Pritchard, Id. 750.
Adams v. Nickols, 19 Pickering, 275; Bumby v. Smith, 8 Alabama,
123, is to the same effect.
8 Dutcher, 513.
II Gates v. Green, 4 Paige, 855; Holtzaflel v. Baker, 18 Vesey, 115.

Dec. 1864.]

DERMOTT V. JONES.
Opinion of the court.

We might here terminate our examination of the case;
Lut as it will doubtless be tried again,-and the record presents several other points to which our attention has been
directed,-we deem it proper to express our views upon
such of them as seem to be material.
While a special contract remains executory the plaintiff
must sue upon it. When it has been fully executed according to its terms, and nothing remains to be done but the
payment of the price, he may sue on the contract, or in in.
debitatus assumpsit, and rely upon the common counts. In
either case the contract will determine the rights of the
parties.
When he has been guilty of fraud, or has wilfully abandoned the work, leaving it unfinished, he cannot recover in
any form of action. Where he has in good faith fulfilled,
but not in the manner or not within the time prescribed by
the contract, and the other party has sanctioned or accepted
the wolk, he may recover upon the common counts in indebitatus assumpsit.
He must produce the contract upon the trial, and it will

be applied as far as it can be traced; but if, by the fault of
the defendant, the cost of the work or materials has been
increased, in so far, the jury will be warranted in departing
from the contract prices. In such cases the defendant is entitled to recoup for the damages he may have sustained by the
plaintiff's deviations from the contract, not induced by himself, both as to the manner and time of the performance.
There is great conflict and confusion in the authorities
upon this subject. The propositions we have laid down are
reasonable and just, and they are sustained by a preponderance of the best considered adjudications.*
JUDGMENT RE ERSED, and the cause remanded for further

proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
* Cutter v Powell, 2 Smith's Leading Cases, 1, and notes; Chitty (n
Contracts, 612, and notes

