Dec. 1864.]

THE CIRCASSIAN.
Statement of the case.

THE CIRCASSIAN.
1. A blockade may be made effectual by batteries on shore as well as by
ships afloat; and, in case of an inland port, may be maintained by batteries commanding the river or inlet by which it may be approached,
supported by a naval force sufficient to warn off innocent and capture
offending vessels attempting to enter.
2. The occupation of a city by a blockading belligerent does not terminate
a public blockade of it previously existing; the city itself being hostile,
the opposing enemy in the neighborhood, and the occupation limited,
recent, and subject to the vicissitudes of war. Still less does it terminate a blockade proclaimed and maintained not only against that city,
but against the port and district commercially dependent upon it and
blockaded by its blockade.
8. A public blockade, that is to say, a blockade regularly notified to neutral
governments, and as such distinguished from a simple blockade or such
as may be established by a naval officer acting on his own discretion, or
under direction of his superiors, must, in the absence of clear proof of a
discontinuance of it, be presumed to continue until notification is given
by the blockading government of such discontinuance.
4. A vessel sailing from a neutral port with intent to violate a blockade is
liable to capture and condemnation as prize from the time of sailing;
and the intent to violate the blockade is not disproved by evidence of a
purpose to call at another neutral port, not reached at time of capture,
with ulterior destination to the blockaded port.
5. Evidence of intent to violate blockade may be collected from bills of
lading of cargo, from letters and papers found on board the captured
vessel, from acts and words of the owners or hirers of the vessel and the
shippers of the cargo and their agents, and from the spoliation of
papers in apprehension of capture.

steamship Circassian, a merchant steamer under
British colors, was captured with a valuable cargo by the
United States steamer Somerset, for an attempted violation
of the blockade established in pursuance of the proclamation
of the President, dated 19th of April, 1861. Both vessel and
cargo were condemned as lawful prize by the District Court
for the Southern District of Florida; and the master, as
representative of both, now brought the decree under the
review of this court by appeal.
The capture was made on the 4th of May, 1862,-the data
is important,-seven or eight miles off the northerly coast of
Cuba, about half way between Matanzas and Havana, and
THE

136

TaE

[Sup. Gt

CICASSIAN.

Statement of the case.

about thirty miles from Havana; the ship at the time ostensibly proceeding to Havana, then distant but two or three
hours' sail. The main voyage was begun at Bordeaux.
There she took a cargo,-no part of it contraband,-and was
making her way to Havana when captured. Pearson & Co.,
of Hull, British subjects, were her ostensible owners. The
cargo was shipped by various English and French subjects,
and consigned to order. The bills of lading spoke of the
ship as "loading for the port of Havanafor orders;" and the
promise of the bills was to deliver the packages "to the said
port of Havana, there to receive orders for the final destination
of my said steamer, and to deliver the same to Messrs. Brulatour & Co., or their order, he or they paying me freight in
accordance with the terms of my charter-party,which is to be
considered the supreme law as regards the voyage of said steamer,
the orders to be received for her and her final destination." The
master swore positively that he did not know of any destination after Havana; nor did the depositions directly show an
intention to break the blockade.
The evidence of this intent rested chiefly on papers found
on the vessel when captured, and in the inference arising
from the spoliation of others. Thus while on her way from
Cardifib to Bordeaux, the ship had been chartered by Pearson & Co. to one J. Soubry, of Paris, agent for merchants
loading her; the charter-party containing a stipulation that
she should proceed to Havre or Bordeaux as ordered, and
then to load from the factories of the said merchants a full
cargo, and "therewith proceed to Havana, Nassau, or Bermuda, as ordered on sailing, and thence to proceed to a port

of America, and to run the blockade,

IF SO ORDERED

by the

freighters."
With this charter-party was the following:
Memorandum of affreightment.
Taken on freight of Mr. Bouvet, Jr., by order and for account
of Mr. J. Soubry, on board of the British steamer Circassian,
&c., bound to Nassau, Bermuda, or Havana, the quantity, &c.
ir. J. Soubry engages to executo the charter-party of affreight

Dee. 1864.']

THE OIRCASSIAN.
Statement of the case.

that is to say, that the merchandise shall not be disem
barked but at the port of lNew Orleans, and to this effect he en.
gages to force the blockade, for account and with authority of J.
Soubry.
ment;

LAIBRMT, lNeveu.

And on this was indorsed, by one P. Debordes, who was
the ship's husband or agent at Bordeaux, these words:
BORDEAUX, 15 February, 1862.

Sent similar memorandum to the parties concerned.
P. DESBORDES.
So, too, Bouvet wrote his correspondents in Iew Orleans,
as follows, the letter being found on the captured vessel:
BORDEAUX, lt

MEsSRs. BRpLATOuR

April, 1862

& Co., New Orleans:

Confirming my letter of the 29th ult., copy of which is annexed, I inclose herewith bills lading for 659 packages merchandise, and 92 small casks T. P.; also, copy of charter-party,and
private memorandum,per Circassian,in order that you may have
no difficulty in settling the freight by that vessel.
The Circassian has engaged to force the blockade, but should
she fail in doing so, you will act in this matter as you may deem
best. I intrust this matter entirely to you.
Accept, gentlemen, my affectionate salutations.
E. BOUVET.
In addition to these papers, various private letters, mostly,
of course, in French, from persons in Bordeaux to their correspondents at iHavana and New Orleans, were found on the
vessel. One of these spoke of the steamer as "loading entirely with our products for New Orleans, where, it is said,
she has engaged to introduce them;" another describes her
"as arrived at Bordeaux, a month since, to take on board a
fine cargo, with which to force the blockade;" a third, as "a
very fast sailer, loaded in our 'port for New Orleans, where
ihe will proceed, after having touched at Havana;" a fourth,

THE CIRCASSIAN.

[8up. Ct,

Statement of the case.

as "about to try to enter your Mississippi,touching, previously,
at Havana." So others, with similar expressions. A British
house of Belfast, sending a letter by her to Havana, "takes
it for granted that she will proceed with her freight to New
Orleans." A French one of Bordeaux had a different view
as to her getting there. This one writes:
"We are going to have a British steamer here of a thousand
tons cargo for your port. We shall ship nothing by her, because
the affair has been badly managed. Instead of keeping it a secret, it has been announced in Paris, London, and Bordeaux. Of
course, the American Government is well informed as to all its
details; and if the steamer ever enters New Orleans, it will be
because the commanding officer of the blockading squadron shuts
his eyes. If he does not, she must be captured."
In addition to this evidence, it appeared that a package of
letters, which were sent on board at Panillac, a small place
at the mouth of the Gironde, after the Circassian had cleared
from Bordeaux, and was setting off to sea, were burned after
the vessel ho'e to, and before the officers of the Somerset came
on board, at the time of capture.
So far with regard to evidence of intent to break the
blockade. This case, however, presented a special feature.
The capture, as already noted, took place on the 4th of
May, 1862; at which date the city of New Orleans, for whose
port the libellants alleged that the vessel had been really
about to run, was in possession, more or less defined and
firm, of the United States. The history was thus:
A fleet of the United States, under Commodore Farragut,
having captured Forts Jackson and St. Philip on the 23d of
April,* reached New Orleans on the 25th. On the 26th, the
commodore demanded of the mayor the surrender of the
city. The reply of the mayor was "that the city was under
martial law, and that he would consult General Lovell."
* These forts were situated on opposite banks of the Iississippi River,
anout one-third of the way up to New Orleans from its mouths, and commanded the river approaches to the city. See chart, infra, page 140.

Dec. 1864.]

THE CIRCASSIAN.
Statement of the case.

The rebel Lovell declared, in turn, that "he would surrender nothing;" but, at the same time, that he would retire,
and leave the mayor unembarrassed. On the 26th, the flagofficer sent a letter, No. 2, to the mayor, in which he says:
"1 came here to reduce New Orleans to obedience to the laws,
and to vindicate the offended majesty of the Government. The
rights of persons and property shall be secured. I therefore demand the unqualified surrender of the city, and that the emblem
of sovereignty of the United States be hoisted upon the City
Hall, Mint, and Custom House, by meridian of this day. And
all emblems of sovereignty other than those of the United States
must be removed from all public buildings from that hour."
To this the mayor transmitted, on the same day, an answer, which he says "is the universal sense of my constituents,

no less than the prompting of my own heart." After announcing that "out of regard for the lives of the women and
children who crowd this metropolis," General Lovell had
evacuated it with his troops, and "restored to me the custody
of its power," he continues:
"The city is without the means of defence. To surrender
such a place were an idle and an unmeaning ceremony. The
place is yours by the power of brutal force, not by any choice or
consent of its inhabitants. As to hoisting any flag other than the
flag of our own adoption and allegiance, let me say to you that the
man lives not in our midst whose hand and heart would not be paralyzed at the mere thought of such an act; nor can Ifind in my entire
constituency so wretched and desperate a renegade as would dare to
profane with his hand the sacred emblem of our aspirations...
Your occupying the city does not transfer allegiancefrom the government of their choice to one which they have deliberately repudiated,

and they yield the obedience which the conqueror is entitled to
extort from the conquered."
At 6 A. M. of the 27th, the National flag was hoisted,
under directions of Flag-officer Farragut, on the Mint,
which building lay under the guns of the Government fleet;
but at 10 A.M. of the same day an attempt to hoist it on
the Custom House was abandoned: "the excitement of the

140

THE CIRCASSIAN.

[Sup. C1.

Statement of the case.

crowd was so great that the mayor and councilmen thought

that it would produce a conflict and cause great loss of life."
On the 29th, General Butler reports that he finds the city
under the dominion of the mob. "They have insulted," he
.I send
says, "our flag; torn it down with indignity .....
a marked copy of a New Orleans paper containing an applauding account of the outrage."
On the same day that General reported thus:
"The rebels have abandoned all their defensive works in and
around New Orleans, including Forts Pike and Wood on Lake
Pontchartrain, and Fort Livingston on Barataria Bay. They
have retired in the direction of Corinth, beyond Manchac Pass,
and abandoned everything in the river as far as Donaldsonville,
some seventy miles beyond New Orleans."

Dec. 1864.]

Tim,

CIRCASSIAN.

Statement of the case.

To the reader who does not recall these places in their relations to New Orleans, the diagram on the page preceding
will present them.
A small body of Federal troops began to occupy New
Orleans on the 1st of May. On the 2d, the landing was
completed.' The rebel mayor and council were not deposed.
There was no armed resistance, but the city was bitterly disaffected, and was kept in order only by severe military discipline, and the rebel army was still organized and in the
vicinity.*
The blockade in question, as already mentioned, was declared by proclamation of President Lincoln in April, 1861;
and was a blockade of the whole coast of the rebel States.
No action to terminate it was taken by the Executive until
the 12th of May, 1862, when, after the success of Flag-officer
Farragut, the President issued a proclamation that the
blockade of the port of New Orleans might be dispensed
with, except as to contraband of war, on and after July 1st
following.
* The state of things was thus described by the commanding general, at
a later date, in justification of some severe measures adopted by him:

"We were two thousand five hundred men in a city seven miles long, by
two to four wide, of a hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants, all hostile,
bitter, defiant, explosive; standing, literally, on a mtgazine, a spark only
needed for destruction." (General Butler in New Orleans, by Parton, 342.)
In the record in this case, there was a copy of a proclamation by General
Butler at New Orleans, dated May 1st, 1862, reciting that the city of New
Orleans and its environs, with all its interior and exterior defences, had
surrendered, and making known the purposes of the United States in thus
taking possession, &c., and the rules and regulations by which the laws of
the United States would, for the present, and during the state of war, be enforced and maintained. It appears (see infra,p. 258, The Venice) that, though
dated on the 1st, this paper was not published so early. The printing offices
of the city were still under rebel management, and would not print it. The
True Delta, the chief one, on the 2d, positively refused to do so, even as a
handbill, no request having been ventured to have it printed in the columns
of the paper. Some of General Butler's troops having been printers, half
a dozen of them were sent to the office; and while a file of soldiers stood
beside, a few copies were printed as a handbill, "enough for the general's
immediate purpose " It did not appear in the paper till the 6th, and then
with a defiant protest. (See Parton, 282.)

142

TIIE CIRCASSIAN.

[Sup. Jt

Argument for the claimants.

The case thus presented two principal questions:
1. Was the port of New Orleans, on the 4th of May, under
blockade ?
2. If it was, was the Circassian, with a cargo destined to
that place, then sailing with an intent to violate it?
Supposing the cargo generally guilty, a minor question
was, as to a particular part of it, asserted to have been
shipped by Leech & Co., of Liverpool, British subjects, and
of which a certain William Burrows was really, or in appearance, "supercargo."
Burrows himself swore-his own testimony being the
only evidence on the subject-that he did not know of any
charter-party for the voyage; that he received the bills of lading
(which, like all the bills, were in French)from Messrs. Desbordes & Co., the ship's agents at Bordeaux; that he knew
nothing about any papers relating to other portions of the
cargo; that he was going to .Havana to sell this merchandise,
shipped by Leech, Harrison Co., and was to return to Liverpool, either by the way of St. Thomas or New York; that
he knew of no instructions to break the blockade; had
heard nothing about the vessel's entering or breaking the
blockade of any port, either before sailing or on the voyage, from any person as owner or agent, or connected with
the vessel or cargo. No letters or other papers were found
compromising this portion of the cargo other than as above
stated.
The statutory port of New Orleans, as distinguished from
the city of New Orleans itself, it may here be said, includes
an extended region along the Mississippi above the city,
parts of which were, at this date and afterwards, in complete
possession of the rebels.
Messrs. A. F. Smith and Laroeque, for the claimants of the
ship and cargo:
I. A blockade is an interruption, by one belligerent, of
communication, by any persons whatever, with a place occupied by anotlier bellioerent. No right exists in a belligerent,

Doc. 1864.]

c1 ]TE
CIRCASSIAN.
Argument for the claimants.

as against a neutral, to blockade his own ports. That would
be war upon the neutral. Blockade is a right of war against
the enemy, and affects the neutral only incidentally, and from
the necessity of the case. It is a right burdensome to neutrals, and is strict in its character. It is one which is claimed
b the belligerent and yielded by the neutral, so long, and
only so long, as ' blockade is maintained which is in accordance with and recognized by the law of nations. The blockade of his own ports would be an embargo, an act of war
against the neutral, thereby made and treated as an enemy.
The embargo draws after it belligerent rights, and of a character entirely different from those that belong to a blockade;
which are peaceful.
Now, was New Orleans, on the 4th of May, an enemy's
port? Plainly not. The United States v. -Rice,* in this court,
some years since, is in point. In A.D. 1814, a place called
Castine, on the south coast of the State of Maine, was captured by the British, then at war with us; and remained
under the control of their military and naval forces until
peace, in 1815. They established a custom-house under
ordinary British laws. Certain goods were imported into
the place during this interval; and, on the repossession of
the place by the American Government, the question was,
whether the goods were liable to duty under the laws of the
United States. This court held that they were not. "By
the conquest and military occupation of Castine," say the
court, "the enemy acquired that firm possession which
enabled him to exercise the fullest rights of sovereignty
over the place. The sovereignty of the United States was,
of course, suspended, and the laws of the United States
could no longer be rightfully enforced there, or be obligatory on the inhabitanis, who remained and submitted to the
conquerors. By the surrender, the inhabitants passed under
a temporary allegiance to the British Government, and were
bound by such laws, and such only, as it chose to recognize
and impose." Our case is stronger than this. In the case
*4

Wheaton, 258.

THE CIRCASSIAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the complainants.

just cited, the port was an American port, which fell under
really foreign rule. This rule was an unnatural, exceptional,
and temporary one. It was never regarded by any party as
otherwise, or other than as an occupation during war, to be
relinquished when peace should come. Great Britain, of
course, never expected to hold permanently an isolated
point in our country. With peace, the port was surrendered
to us. Here, however, New Orleans had been seized by an
insurrectionary faction only; certainAmericans in temporary
and mad revolt. We never ceased to regard New Orleans
as a city of the United States. We never acknowledged her
as belonging to any State but a State of this Union; a State
then, as now, part of our one common country. In due time,
and in a short time, the mob was brought, by the power of
the Government, under its actual control, as the Government has always considered it to be under its constitutional
right. The people were, at all times, American citizens;
and at any moment, had they laid down their arms, these
rights would have been conceded to them. With the suppression of the insurgent organization, law and order resumed the throne; the place became, in fact and in form,
what it was always in law,-a port of the United States.
Everything was remitted to its former condition. The case
is one where the fiction of postliminy happens to be a fact;
the just and benignant fiction of the Roman law, qucefngit
eum qui captus est in civitate semper fuisse.
Very likely the presence of the Federal army was odious
enough to both mob and gentry of New Orleans, to men and
women alike, "neutrals" and rebels as well. The population may have been all hostile, bitter, defiant, explosive.
Still, the Federal army did keep its possession there, and
with no other opposition than that of offensive words, gestures, and looks. Probably it was never in any danger; for
if it had been insufficient, the Federal fleet lay beside the
town, and could have destroyed it in a day. Here is the
fact. From the hour that General Butler landed till this
day, New Orleans has been under the Government control.

Dec. 1864.]

THE CIRCASSIAN.
Argument for the claimants.

That the fleet and army were not welcomed by the population with open hearts and arms, has nothing to do with the
question.
The Government, then, was re-established, and everything was remitted. If this position be true, the right to
capture was gone, no matter how guilty the design of the
Circassian. "When the blockade is raised, a veil is thrown
over everything that has been done, and the vessel is no
longer taken in delicto. The delictum may have been compl ted at one period, but it is, by subsequent events, entirely
done away."*

IH. As to intent to run the blockade, the only evidence tending
to show this is derived from the documents found on board;
and from these, the following are the most unfavorable inferences for the vessel and cargo which could be drawn:
1st. By the charter-party, the vessel was to proceed "to
Havana, Nassau, or Bermuda, as ordered on sailing, and
thence to proceed to a port of America, and to run the block..
ade, IF SO

ORDERED BY FREIGHTERS."

2d. By a paper found, signed "Laibert, Ieveu" (nephew),
Laibert engages, on behalf of Soubry, that the merchandise
should not be disembarked but at the port of New Orleans,
and, to this effect, he engages to force the blockade for
account and with authority of Soubry.
3d. The bills of lading contain an engagement by the
master to convey the cargo to the port of Havana, there to
"receive orders for the final destination of the steamer, and
they paying freight in acthere to deliver the same to -,
cordance with the terms of the charter-party, which was to
be considered the supreme law as regarded the voyage, the
orders to be received for her, and her final destination."
4th. There are letters from various shippers to their correspondents in Havana and New Orleans, showing their
belief that she was going to New Orleans.
This, we say, is all the evidence. Apart, therefore, from
the memorandum signed "Laibert, Neveu," of the genuineThe Lissett, 6 Robinson, 887, 395.
VOL. I.

10

THE CIRCASSIAN.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the claimants.

ness of which and of whose authority there is no proof, how
does the case stand? The Circassian was not, at the time of
capture, and never had been, sailingto New Orleans,nor indeed
to any port contiguous thereto; Havana and New Orleans
are distant 650 miles. Then the controlling document is the
charter-party; and, according to that, the eventual running
of the blockade was dependent upon an option to be exercised by the charterer on arriving at Havana: the bills of
lading were expressly made subject to the charter-party.
Her voyage was, therefore, to Havana for orders-by the
terms of the charter-party-by her bills of lading-and by
the fact. At Havana there was a "locus penitentim3." The
orders might never be given. Indeed, it is quite certain they
never would have been given under the change of circumstances by the-capture of New Orleans.
Authority supports the view that this change of purpose,
if effected at Havana, would avoid the capture.
In The Lnina,* Sir William Scott decided, that where the
vessel had originally sailed for Amsterdam, a blockaded
port, under circumstances which would have subjected her
to condemnation before changing her course; but the master, in consequence of information received at Elsinore,
altered her destination, and proceeded towards Embden, she
was not taken in delicto on a subsequent capture.
What difference exists between a guilty purpose forborne
by the master, without the knowledge of the owners, and one not
yet fully matured, but resting in contingency, merely, at the
time of capture?
III. As respects the portion of the cargo under the care of Burrows. The evidence of this person, the supercargo, exculpates the owners, and the portion of the cargo owned by
them; from all participation in even an intention to violate
the blockade. The bills of lading were in French, which it
does not appear that he understood. If he did, they, as do
those for all the rest of the cargo, contain an express stipulation for the delivery of the goods to order, at Havana, on
8 Robinson, 138, Amer. ed.; 167, English ed.

Dec. 1864.]

THE OIROASSIAN.
Argument for the claimants.

payment of the freight, according to the charter-party; and
the reference to the latter instrument would neither authorize the carrying of the goods beyond that port, nor was it
of a nature to awaken any uneasiness on the part of a supercargo bound only thither.
IV. The weight of American authority denies the right
of capture, even where the vessel is proceeding directly to
the blockaded port, before an approach near enough to actually attempt an entry; nor has that right been established
in this court as mistakenly stated by some American authors; and the decisions in other courts of this country are
decidedly against it. So also is the concurring testimony of
the later Continental writers. The practice of the American
Government has also been against it. The "Columbia," the
earliest English case maintaining the doctrine, was decided
in 1799, after the Revolution, and is not binding here.*
V. The doctrine of continuous voyages is not applicable
to a case of simple breach of blockade disconnected from
contraband, the rule of 1756, or illegal trade between the
subjects of the opposing belligerents. All the cases cited
below are of one or the other of these classes. The "Maria"
* 1 Kent, 150; Yeaton v. Fry, 5 Cranch, 342, 843; The Nereide, 9 Id.
440, 446; Fitzsimmons v. Newport Ins. Co., 4 Id. 199; Maryland Ins. Co.
v. Woods, 6 Id. 45; Vos v. The United Ins. Co., 1 Caines' Cases, 23; Liotard v. Graves, 8 Caines' R., 225; Calhoun v. Ins. Co. of Pennsylvania, 1
Binney, 309; Williams v. Smith, 1 Caines' R., 1; Radcliffe v. United Ins.
Co., 7 Johnson, 38; Hautefeuille, Des Droit et des Devoirs des Nations
Neutres, vol. ii, pp. 241 to 244; Pistoye & Duverdy, Traite des Pises
Maritimes, vol. i, p. 370; Heffter Europiisches V6lker-recht, p. 276, sec.
156; Pando, pp. 500, 503; Mr. King to Lord Grenville, Amer. State Papers,
"Foreign Relations," vol. iii, p. 370; Mr. Smith to Com. Preble, 3 Wheaton's R., Appendix, p. 10; Mr. Monroe to the Chevalier de Onis, Amer.
State Papers, For. Rel., vol. iv, p. 156; Mr. Irving to Spanish Minister for
Foreign Affairs, Ibid. p. 158; Mr. Baguet to Brazilian Minister for Foreign
Affairs, Pub. Doc., 1st Sess. 20th Cong., "State Papers," vol. vii, Doe. 281,
pp. 11 and 12; Mr. Mason, See. of Navy, to Commanding Officer in Pacific,
24th Dec. 1846; Mr. Marcy to Count de Sartiges, Ex. Doe. 3d Sess. 34th
Cong., vol. i, pt. 1, p. 81; The "Columbia," 1 Robinson, 154; Bentzon v.
Boyle, 9 Cranch, 191.

TuE

CIRCASSIA.

[sur- Ct

Opinion of the Court.

and "Charlotte Sophia"* are not exceptions; for the voyage was really a direct one from the blockaded port in each
case. This vessel could not be captured, therefore, while
proceeding to Havana, for an intent afterwards to break the
blockade of New Orleans.
VI. The Proclamation of May 12, 1862 (after this capture), founded on the 5th section of the act of July 13, 1861,
did not retro-act; nor could either continue the blockade of
our recovered port against neutrals. They apply only to
trade between our own citizens.
Mr. .ames, contra,for the captors.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
That the rebellion against the national Government, which,
in April, 1861, took the form of assault on Fort Sumter,
had, before the end of July, assumed the character and proportions of civil war; and that the blockade, established
under the President's proclamation, affected all neutral commerce, from that time, at least, with its obligations and liabilities, are propositions which, in this court, are no longer
open to question. They were not more explicitly affirmed
by the judges who concurred in the judgment pronounced
in the prize cases at the December Term, 1862, than by the
judges who dissented from it.
The Government of the United States, involved in civil
war, claimed the right to close, against all commerce, its own
ports seized by the rebels, as a just and proper exercise of
power for the suppression of attempted revolution. It insisted, and yet insists, that no one could justly complain if
that power should be decisively and peremptorily exerted.
In deference, however, to the views of the principal commercial nations, this right was waived, and a commercial
blockade established. It was expected that this blockade,
effectively maintained, would be scrupulously respected by
nations and individuals who declared themselves neutral.
*

Robinson, 201 and 204, note.
R

Doec. 1864.]

Tim CIRCASSIAN.
Opinion of the court.

Of the various propositions asserted and controverted in
the discussion of the cause now under consideration, two
only need be examined in order to a correct understanding
of its merits. It is insisted for the captors,
1. That on the 4th of May, 1862, the port of New Orleans
was under blockade;
2. That the Circassian, with a cargo destined for New
Orleans, was then sailing with intent to violate that blockade, and therefore liable to capture as naval prize.
Both propositions are denied by the claimants. We shall
consider them in their order.
First, then, was the port of New Orleans under blockade
at the time of the capture?
The city of New Orleans, and the forts commanding its
approaches from the Gulf, were captured during the last
days of April, 1862, and military possession of the city was
taken on the 1st of May. Did this capture of the forts and
military occupation of the city terminate the blockade of the
port ?
The object of blockade is to destroy the commerce of the
enemy, and cripple his resources by arresting the import of
supplies and the export of products. It may be made effectual by batteries ashore as well as by ships afloat. In the
case of an inland port, the most effective blockade would be
maintained by batteries commanding the river or inlet by
which it may be approached, supported by a naval force
sufficient to warn off innocent, and capture offending vessels
attempting to enter.
The capture of the forts, then, did not terminate the
blockade of New Orleans, but, on the contrary, made it
more complete and absolute.
Was it terminated by the military occupation of the city?
The blockade of the ports of the insurgent States was declared from the first by the American Government to be a
blockade of the whole coast, and so it has been utiderstood
by all governments. The blockade of New Orleans was a
part of this general blockade. It applied not to the city
9lone, but controlled the port, which includes the whole

Tim

CIRCASSIAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

parish of Orleans, and lies on both sides of the Mississippi,
and all the ports on that river and on the lakes east of the
city.
Now, it may be well enough conceded that a continuous
and complete possession of the city and the port, and of the
approaches from the Gulf, would make a blockade unnecessary, and would supersede it. But, at the time of the capture of the Circassian, there had been no such possession.
Only the city was occupied, not the port, much. less the district of country commercially dependent upon it, and blockaded by its blockade. Even the city had been occupied only
three days. It was yet hostile; the rebel army was in the
neighborhood; the occupation, limited and recent, was sub.
ject to aL the vicissitudes of war. Such an occupation could
not at once, of itself, supersede or suspend the blockade. It
might ripen into a possession which would have that effect,
and it did; but at the time of the capture it operated only
in aid and completion of the naval investment.
There is a distinction between simple and public blockades
which supports this conclusion. A simple blockade may be
established by a naval officer, acting upon his own discretion
or under direction of superiors, without governmental notification; while a public blockade is not only established in
fact, but is notified, by the government directing it, to other
governments. In the case of a simple blockade, the captors
are bound to prove its existence at the time of capture; while
in the case of a public blockade, the claimants are held to
proof of discontinuance in order to protect themselves from
the penalties of attempted violation. The blockade of the
rebel ports was and is of the latter sort. It was legally established and regularly notified by the American Government
to the neutral governments. Of such a blockade, it was well
observed by Sir William Scott: "It must be conceived to
exist till the revocation of it is actually notified." The
blockade of the rebel ports, therefore, must be presumed to
have continued until notification of discontinuance.*
* The Betsey, Goodhue, Master, 1 Robinson, 282; The Neptune, 1
td. 144.

Dec. 1864.]

THE OIRCASSIAN.
Opinion of the court.

It is, indeod, the duty of the belligerent government to
give prompt notice; and if it fails to do so, proof of discontinuance may be otherwise made; but, subject to just responsibility to other nations, it must judge for itself when it
can dispense with blockade. It must decide when the objeci
of blockade, namely, prevention of commerce with enemies,
can be attained by military force, or, when the enemies are
rebels, by military force and municipal law, without the aid
:f a blockading force. The Government of the United
States acted on these views. Upon advice of the capture of
New Orleans, it decided that the blockade of the port might
be safely dispensed with, except as to contraband of war,
from and after the 1st of June. The President, therefore,
on the 12th of May, issued his proclamation to that effect,
and its terms were undoubtedly notified to neutral powers.
This action of the Government must, under the circumstances of this case, be held to be conclusive evidence that
the blockade of New Orleans was not terminated by military
occupation on the 4th of May. New Orleans, therefore, was
under blockade when the Circassian was captured.
It remains to be considered whether the ship and cargo
were then liable to capture as prize for attempted violation
of that blockade.
It is a well-established principle of prize law, as administered by the courts, both of the United States and Great
Britain, that sailing from a neutral port with intent to enter
a blockaded port, and with knowledge of the existence of
the blockade, subjects the vessel and, in most cases, its
cargo to capture and condemnation.* We are entirely satisfied with this rule. It was established, with some hesitation, when sailing vessels were the only vehicles of ocean
commerce; but now, when steam and electricity have
made all nations neighbors, and blockade running from
neutral ports seems to have been organized as a business,
* Yeaton v. Fry, 5 Cranch, 335; 1 Kent's Commentaries, 160; The Frederick Afolke, ] Robir'on, 72; The Columbia. 1 Id. 130; The Neptune, 2
Id. 94.

THE

CIRCASSIAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinfion of the court.

and almost raised to a profession, it is clearly seen to be indispensable to the efficient exercise of belligerent rights. It
is not likely to be abandoned until the nations, by treaty,
shall consent to abolish capture of private property on the
seas, and with it the whole law and practice of commercial
blockade.
Do the Circassian and her cargo come within this rule?
The Circassian was chartered at Paris on the 11th of February, 1862, by Z. 0. Pearson & Co. to J. Soubry, agent, and
the charter-party contained a stipulation that she should
proceed to Havre or Bordeaux, and, being loaded, proceed
thence with her cargo to Havana, Nassau, or Bermuda, and
thence to a port in America and "run the blockade, if so
ordered by the freighters." With this charter-party was
found on the ship, at the time of capture, a memorandum
of affreightment given to Bouvet, one of the shippers, and
signed "For account and with authority of J. Soubry,Laibert, Neveu," and containing this engagement: "Mr. J.
Soubry engages to execute the charter-party of affreightment; that is to say, that the merchandise shall not be disembarked except at New Orleans, and to this effect he
engages to force the blockade." With this paper was the
following note, signed "P. Desbordes :" "Sent similar memorandum to the parties concerned." This P. Desbordes
was the ship's husband or agent at Bordeaux.
It is urged, on behalf of the claimants, that there is no
evidence that Laibert had authority to act for Soubry; but
the fact that the paper was found on the ship raises a presumption that he had that authority, and puts the burden
of proof to the contrary on the claimants. Besides, it appears, from a letter written by Bouvet, that he forwarded by
the ship, inclosed with this letter, the bills of lading of the
goods shipped by him, and also "a copy of the charter-party
and private memorandum." It can hardly be doubted that the
copy of the charter-party in the record is this copy forwarded
by Bouvet, or that the memorandum found with it is the
private memorandum of which he writes. The circumstance
that a similar memorandnm was sent to the parties con-

Dec. ,1864.]

THE CIRCASSIAN.
Opinion of the court.

cerned raises an almost irresistible presumption that the
other freighters shipped their merchandise under the same
express stipulation to force the blockade.
It is hardly necessary to go further on the question of intent; but if doubt remained, it would be dispelled by an
examination of the other papers and facts in the case.
Every bill of lading contained a stipulation for the conveyance of goods described in it to Havana, in order to receive
orders as to their ulterior destination, and for their delivery at that destination on payment of freight. Such, we
think, is the true import of each bill before us. Almost
every letter found on board the ship and contained in the
record, affords evidence of intent to force the blockade.
These letters were written, at Bordeaux, to correspondents
at Havana and New Orleans, and speak of the steamer as
"loaded entirely with our products for New Orleans ;" as
"arrived hither a month since, to convey to your place, New
Orleans, by forcing the blockade, a very fine cargo;" as
"loaded in our port for New Orleans, whither she will proceed after touching at Havana;" as "being a very fast
sailer;" as "going to attempt the entrance of your river,
after previously touching at Havana;" as "bound to your
port, New Orleans;" as "bound from Bordeaux to New
Orleans;" and as "having engaged to force the blockade."
Most of these letters were written by shippers, and relate
to merchandise described in one or another of the bills of
lading. Finally, it is proved that on the eve, and almost at
the moment, of capture, the captain ordered the destruction
of a package of letters put on board the ship, after she had
cleared from Bordeaux, at Panillac, a town on the Gironde,
nearer the sea. These letters, doubtless, related to the ship,
the cargo, or the voyage, probably to all. Their destruction
would be a strong circumstance against the ship and cargo,
were the other facts less convincing; taken in connection
with them, it irresistibly compels belief of guilty intent at
the time of sailing and time of capture.
It was urged in argument that the ship was bound primarily to Havana, and might discharge her cargo there, and

THE

CIRCASSIAN.

EPip. Ct-

Opinion of the court.

should not be held liable to capture for an intent which would
have been abandoned on her arrival at that place.
We agree, that if the ship had been going to Havana with
an honest intent to ascertain whether the blockade of New
Orleans yet remained in force, and with no design to pro.
ceed further if such should prove to be the case, neither ship
nor cargo would have been subject to lawful seizure. But
it is manifest that such was not the intent. The existence
of the blockade was known at the inception of the voyage,
and its discontinuance was not expected. The vessel was
chartered and her cargo shipped with the purpose of forcing
the blockade. The destination to Havana was merely colorable. It proves nothing beyond a mere purpose to touch at
that port, perhaps, and, probably, with the expectation of
getting information which would facilitate the success of the
unlawful undertaking. It is quite possible that Havana,
under the circumstances, would have turned out to be, as
was insisted in argument, a locus penitentia; but a place for
repentance does not prove repentance before the place is
reached. It is quite possible that the news which would
have met the vessel at Havana would have induced the
master and shippers to abandon their design to force the
blockade by ascending the Mississippi; but future possibilities cannot change present conditions. Nor is it at all certain that the purpose to break the blockade would have been
abandoned. On the contrary, it is quite possible that the
"ulterior destination" mentioned in the bills of lading
would have been changed to some other blockaded port.
But this is not important. Neither possibilities nor probabilities could change the actual intention one way or another. At the time of capture, ship and cargo were on their
way to New Orleans, under contract that the cargo should
be discharged there and not elsewhere, and that the blockade
should be forced in order to the fulfilment of that contract.
This condition made ship and cargo then and there lawful
prize.
There was some attempt, in argument, to distinguish that
portion of the cargo shipped by William Burrows from the

Dec. 1864.]

THE CIRCASSIAN.
Opinion of Nelson J., dissenting.

remainder. We do not think it can be so distinguished.
The bill of lading of the goods shipped by him is expressed
in the same terms as the bills of goods shipped by others,
and Burrows himself states that he received it from P. Desbordes & Oo.,-the same Desbordes who sent "to the other
parties" memorandums similar to that which was given to
Bouvet, and which stipulated for breach of blockade. There
is no indication in Ihe bill of lading that any one except
Burrows had any interest in these goods, and no testimony
except his own to that effect. Against the strong circumstances which tend to prove that they were in equal fault
with all the rest, his not very unequivocal statement, that
they were destined for sale in Havana, cannot prevail.
The decree of the District Court, condemning the vessel
and cargo as lawful prize, must be

.AFFIRIMED.

Mr. Justice IELS ON, dissenting:
I am unable to concur in the judgment of the court in
this case; and shall proceed to state briefly the grounds of
my dissent, without entering upon the argument or discussion in support of them.
I think the proof sufficient to show, that the purpose of
the master was to break the blockade of the port of New
Orleans, and that it existed from the inception of the voyage:
but, inmy judgment, the defect in the case, on the part of
the captors, is that no blockade existed at the port of New
Orleans at the time the seizure was made. The city was
reduced to possession by the naval forces of the United
States, on the 25th of April preceding the seizure, and Forts
Jackson and St. Philip on the 23d of the same month. They
were situated on the opposite banks of the Mississippi River,
about one-third of the way up to the city from its mouth.
Admiral Farragut announced to the Government the cap.
ture and possession of the city on the day it took place, 25th
of April, and General Butler, of the capture of the forts on
the 29th. The latter announced, that the enemy had abandoned all their defensive works in and around New Orleans,
nclnding Forts Pike and Wood, on Lake Pontchartrain,

THE CIRCASSIAN.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of Nelson J., dissenting.

and Fort Livingston on Barataria Bay; and had abandoned
everything up the river as far as Donaldsville, some seventy
miles beyond New Orleans. The authority of the Government of the United States had been restored over the city
and its inhabitants; and over the Mississippi River, and
both of its banks and the inlets to the same, from the ocean
or gulf, including, also, the passage for vessels by the way
of Lakes Borgne and Pontchartrain, the usual channel for
vessels engaged in the coasting trade to and from New Orleans. And on the 1st of May, General Butler announced
by proclamation, that the city of New Orleans and its environs, with all its interior and exterior defences, having
surrendered to the combined land and naval forces of the
United States, and being now in the occupation of these
forces, the Major-General commanding hereby proclaims
the objects and purposes of the United States in thus taking
possession, &c., and the rules and regulations by which the
laws of the United States would be, for the present, and
during the state of war, enforced and maintained. The
seizure of the vessel and cargo was made between Matanzas
and Havana, on the 4th of May, several days after the city
and port of New Orleans were reduced, and full authority
of the United States extended and held over them.
A blockade under the law of nations is a belligerent right,
and its establishment an act of war upon the nation whose
port is blockaded. One of the most important of the belligerent rights is that of blockading the enemy's ports, not
merely to compel the surrender of the place actually attacked
or invested, but, as a means, often the most effectual, of
compelling the enemy, by the pressure upon his financial
and commercial resources, to listen to terms of peace. The
object of a blockade, says Chancellor Kent, is not merely to
prevent the importation of supplies, but to prevent export
as well as import, and to cut off all communication of commerce with the blockaded port.
Now, the capture and possession of the port of the enemy
by the blockading force, or by the forces of the belligerent,
:u te course of the prosecution of the war, puts an end to

Dec. 1864.]

THE CIRCASSIAN

Opinion of Nelson J., dissenting.

the blockade and all the penal consequences growing out of
this measure to neutral commerce. The altered condition
of things, and state of the war between the two parties in
respect to the besieged port or town, makes the continuance
of the blockade inconsistent with the code of international
law on the subject; as no right exists on the part of the
belligerent as against the neutral powers to blockade his
own ports. This principle was recognized and applied by
Sir W. Scott in the case of The Trende Soztre, decided in
1807.* She was a Danish vessel and was on a voyage to the
Cape of Good Hope, then the port of an enemy, with contraband articles on board, and was seized as a prize of war;
but the vessel had arrived at the Cape after that settlement
had surrendered to the British forces. The counsel for the
captors insisted, that though the settlement had become
British, the penalty would not be defeated, as the intention
and the act continued the same; that there was no case in
which such a distinction had been allowed on the question of
contraband. "The distinction," it was remarked, "which
had been admitted in blockade cases, stood altogether on
particular grounds, as arising out of a class of cases depending on the blockade of neutral ports, in which the court had
expressed a disposition to admit all favorable distinctions."
The court, in delivering its opinion, observes: "If the port
had continued Dutch, a person could not have been at liberty
to carry thither articles of a contraband nature, under an
intention of selling other innocent commodities only, and
of proceeding with the contraband articles to a port of
ulterior destination. But before the ship arrives, a circumstance takes place which completely discharges the whole
of the guilt. Because, from the moment when the Cape
became a British possession, the goods lost their nature of
contraband. They were going into the possession of a
British settlement; and the consequence of any pre-emption
that could be put upon them, would be British pre-emption."
The court also observed: "It has been said, that this is a
* 6 Robinson, 890, A.

158

TuE CIRCASsIAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Nelson J., dissenting.

priaciple which the court has not applied to cases of contra
band; and that the court, in applying it to cases of blockade,
did it only in consideration of the particular hardships consequent on that class of cases. But I am not aware of any
material distinction; because the principle on which the
court proceeded was, that there must be a delictum existing
at the moment of the seizure to sustain the penalty." "I
am of opinion, therefore," the judge says, in conclusion,
"that the same rule does apply to cases of contraband, and
upon the same principle on which it has been applied in
those of blockade." See also the case of The Lisette,* and
of The Abby,t in which the same principle is declared, and
one of them a case of blockade.
The cessation of the blockade necessarily resulted from
the capture and possession of the port and town of New
Orleans. They no longer belonged to the enemy, nor were
under its dominion, but were a port and town of the United
States. They had become emphatically so, for the capture
was not that of the territory of a foreign nation to which we
had obtained only the right and title of a conqueror; but
the conquest was over our own territory, and over our own
people, who had by illegal combinations, and mere force and
violence, subverted the laws and usurped the authority of
the General Government. The capture was but the restoration of the ancient possession, authority, and laws of the
country, the continuance and permanency of which, so far
as the right is involved, depend not on conquest, nor on the
success or vicissitudes of armies; but upon the Constitution
of the United States, which extends over every portion of
the Union, and is the supreme law of the land. The doubt,
therefore, that arose in the case of the Thirty Hfogsheads of
Sugar v. Boile,t and which was solved by Chief Justice Marshall, and related to the case of a foreign conquest, cannot
arise in this case. The Chief Justice observed, "Some doubt
has been suggested whether Santa Cruz, while in possession
of Great Britain, could properly be considered a British
6 Robinson, 387.

t

5 Id. 251.

$ 9 Crunch, 191.

Dec. 1864.]

TiE CIRCASSIAN.
Opinion of Nelson J., dissenting.

island. But for this doubt there can be no foundation.
Although acquisitions made during war are not considered
permanent until confirmed by treaty; yet, to every commercial and belligerent purpose they are considered as part
of the domain of the conqueror, so long as he retains the
possession and government of them. The Island of Santa
Cruz, after the capitulation, remained a British island until
it was restored to Denmark." Now, as we have seen, it is
not necessary to invoke this doctrine in a case where the
capture is of territory previously belonging to the sovereign
power acquiring it, and which is retaken and held under the
organic law and authority of that power.
I have said, that the cessation of the blockade in question
resulted from the capture and repossession of the port and
town of New Orleans, and that there was no longer an
enemy's port or town to be blockaded. In addition to this,
the moment the capture took place, and the authority of the
United States was established, the municipal laws of that
government took the place of the international law upon
which the blockade rested. The reason for its continuance
no longer existed: it had accomplished its object as one of
the coercive measures against the enemy to compel a surrender. So far as intercourse with the town became material, whether commercial or otherwise, after the capture
and possession, it was subject to regulation by the municipal
laws, and which is much more efficient and absolute and less
expensive than the measure of blockade. It is true, these laws
cannot operate extra-territorially; but within the limit of
the jurisdiction, and which extends to a marine league from
the coast, their control over all intercourse with the port or
town is complete. Seizures of neutral vessels and cargo on
the high seas are, indeed, not admissible, but blockades are
not established for the purpose of these seizures; ti ey are
but incidental to the exercise of the belligerent right against
the port of the enemy.
The proclamation of the President of the 12th of May,
1862, which announces that the blockade of the port of New
Orleans shall cease after the lst of June following, has been

FREEBORN

V.

S-[uITt.

[Sup. CL,

Opinion of Nelson J., dissenting.

referred to as evidence of its continuance to that period.
But I think it will be difficult to maintain the position upon
any principle of international law, that the belligerent may
continue a blockading force at the port after it has not only
ceased to be an enemy's, but has become a port of its own.
It is not necessary that the belligerent should give notice of
the capture of the town, in order to put in operation the
municipal laws of the place against neutrals. The act is a
public event of which foreign nations are bound to take notice, and conform their intercourse to the local laws. The
same principle applies to the blockade, and the effect of the
capture of the port upon it. The event is public and notoriu, and the effect and consequences of the change in the
state of war upon the blockading force well understood.
I have felt it a duty to state the grounds of my dissent in
this case, not on account of the amount of property involved,
though that is considerable, or from any particular interests
connected with the case, but from a conviction that there is
a tendency, on the part of the belligerent, to press the right
of blockade beyond its proper limits, and thereby unwittingly aid in the establishment of rules that are often found
inconvenient, and felt as a hardship, when, in the course of
events, the belligerent has become a neutral. I think the
application of the law of blockade, in the present case, is a
step in that direction, and am, therefore, unwilling to give
it my concurrence.
[See infra, p. 258, The Venice; a case, in some senses, suppletory or complemental to the present one.]

FREEBORN V. SMITH.
1. When Congress has passed an act admitting a Territory into the Union
us a State, but omitting to provide, by such act, for the disposal of cases
pending in this court on appeal or writ of error, it may constitutionally
and properly pass a subsequent act making such provision for them.
2. This court will not hear, on writ of error, matters which are properly
the subject of applications for new trial.

