BANK TAX CASE.

Lsup. Ct

Statement of the case.

sanctioned. There was, he said, no principle involved of
such extensive application as to bring the case within the
act of Congress giving jurisdiction on a judge's allocatur
when the amount in controversy is less than $1000. Notwithstanding the allocatur,therefore, the case was
DISMISSED.

BANK TAX CASE.
A tax laid by a State on banks, "on a valuation equal to the amount of their
capital stock paid in, or secured to be paid in,"is a tax on theproperty
of the institution; and when that property consists of stocks of the Federal Government, the law laying the tax is void.

A STATUTE of the State of New York, passed in 1857,
making some modifications of previous acts of 1823, 1825,
and 1830, enacted that the capital stock of the banks of the State
should be "assessed at its actual value, and taxed in the same
manner as other personal and real estate of the country."
After the passage of this act, several of the banks became
owners of large amounts of the bonds of the United States,
in regard to which Congress enacts* that "whether held by
individuals or corporations,they shall be exempt from taxation by or under State authority." On a question between
several banks of New York, formed under the general banking law of 1838 in that State, and the tax commissioners
of New York, this court decided, in March, 1863 (Bank of
Commerce v. NVew York City, reported in 2 Black, 620), tha
the tax referred to was a tax upon the stock; and that being
so, it was by the settled law of this court illegally imposed.
In April, 1863, just after this decision, the legislature of
New York passed another statute,t which enacted that "all
banks, banking associations, &c., shall be liable to taxation
on a valuation equal to the amount of their capitalstock paid in or
secured to be paid in, and their surplus earnings, &c., in the
manrer now provided by law,'&c. On a tax laid, under
* Act of February 25, 1862.

t" A.et of 29th Ap~ril, 1863.

Dec. 1864.]

BANK TAX CASE.

201

Argument in support of the tax.

this act, by the commissioners, upon the different banks of
New York City, some of which had invested their whole
capital in the securities of the Federal Government, and
others of which had largely done so, the question was whether this second act did or did not also impose a tax upon
these stocks. The Court of Appeals of New York decided
that it did not; and from this decision the case came here.
ft is proper to say that by the general banking law of New
York, under which all these banks were created, it is enacted
that the legislature may at any time alter or repeal the act.
Between twenty and thirty banks being now here as plaintiffs in error, and the question being one of magnitude both
in amount and in principle,* as many of the corporations as
wished to be heard were heard, though the principle involved was much the same in the case of each.
Messrs. -Devlin,Brady, and Kernan,for the tax commissioners:
These corporations are created by the State, and endowed
by it with valuable franchises. That the corporations should
pay the State for these is obvious. To make them pay is the
purpose of the act. The tax is imposed upon corporations
directly and specifically. It is not imposed upon their property. The thing is the same in substance as tho-dgh the
State required the corporation to pay annually into the State
treasury a specified sum for the privileges and franchises
granted. It is to be paid irrespective of the character of the
securities held by the bank. Instead, for example, of requiring a specified sum to be paid annually, the law requires
the corporation to pay to the State annually an amount
equal to the tax which would be levied, for State purposes,
"on a valuation equal to the amount" of the nominal capital
stock of the bank. This is more just than to exact a fixed
sum annually. The reference in the statute to "a valuation
equal to the amount of their capital stock, paid in or secured
It v as stated by one of the counsel in the case, Mr. Marshall Spring
Bidwell, that to the banks of New York City alone the tax made a difference
")f81,500.66,

M

-BANK TAX CASE.

LRnp. 0'

Argument in support of the tax.

to be paid in, and their surplus earnings," is only for the
purpose of fixing the amount which the corporations are
annually to pay for their franchises. It has no regard to the
actual capital owned by the bank, or to the securities, or the
value of the securities held by it.
Concede, for the sake of argument, that the burden imposed by the act of 1863 upon the banks indirectly affects the
United States securities by diminishing the inducements to
the banks to invest in them, how does this render the act invalid? The State was under no obligation to create these
corporations to aid directly or indirectly the Federal Government in exercising its powers. Without violating the Constitution of the United States, the State might, by the original act creating them, have required these banks to make
State stocks or mortgages the basis of and security for the
redemption of the notes they were authorized to issue, and
to invest all their capital and funds in these securities, to the
exclusion of United States stocks. The State is not bound
to continue the existence of the banks because they aid the
Federal Government. They are created by power of the
State, and by the express provisions of their charter exist
only during its pleasure. They were created for the benefit
of the people of the State, and whenever, in the judgment
of the legislature, the good of the State requires it, they may
be abolished, notwithstanding they were beneficial to the
Federal Government in the exercise of its power to borrow
money. Hence, while the State cannot tax the bonds issued
by the United States held by these institutions, it can compel
them to contribute to State burdens, as the price of their
existence, the same amount as though they did not hold
such bonds. The fact, if it be so, that this action of the
State will tend to prevent these institutions from investing
in United States bonds, does not render the same unconstitutional any more than their non-creation would be a failure
by the State to perform its constitutional duty, or the repeal
of their charters would be a violation of the constitution.
Being the creatures of State power, the State may legitimately so create and burden them that they shali subserve

Dee. 1864.]

BANK TAX CASE.
Argument against the tax.

the interest of the State, rather than the interest of the
Federal Government. It is to be observed that in this action the State does not, in any just sense, obstruct the exercise of its legitimate power by the Federal Government. It
simply fails to give it incidental aid. It so legislates that the
State, rather than the Federal Government, derives advantages from an institution created and continued by legitimate State authority. What is there unpatriotic or unconstitutional in this? The sovereignty of a State extends to
everything which exists by its own authority, or is intro
duced by its permission.
Messrs. -DanielLord, A. W. Bradford, B. D. Silliman, Marshall Spring Bidwell, Benedict, Bonney, Van Winkle, and others,
contra,for different Banks: It is of no consequence whether
a tax be levied on a person natural or artificial in respect to
property, or on the property itself. Under any system where
property is the criterion of taxation, and affords the basis of
a rate or assessment, the tax may be said to be a tax upon
the property, or a tax upon the person or institution, owning it, in respect to such property. It is only a different
mode of announcing the same proposition. "In N~ew York,
all taxation is upon property. It is the same thing in substance, to say that it is upon the owner in respect to property."* There may be a difference in the mode of assessing
and valuing the property of a person and the property of a
corporation; but supposing the mode the same in each case,
viz., that of actual valuation,then as to exemptions under the
Constitution of the United States, the position of a bank
"is the same as that of an individual tax-payer. It is, as a
general rule, assessed and taxed for all its property of every
kind; but there is an exception as to such part of its property, as the Constitution and laws of the Union, and of the
States, have upon special reasons of policy, declared shall be
exempted. Whether such exempt property is found in the
hands of an individual, or in the possession of a corporation
* Comstock, J.. in People v. The Commissioners, 28 New York, 192.

BANK

TAX

CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the tax.

taxed upon Ihe actual value of its capital, the rule is the same,
the exempt property is to be deducted from the aggregate
valuation, and the tax is to be imposed on the residue."*
The privilege of exemption f'rom taxation on so much property as may have been lent to the Government of the
United States, cannot be made to depend on the mode of
valuation, either of the property of an individual, or of a corporation. If so dependent, it is obvious that the immunity
of the Government from taxation upon its means of borrowing money amounts to nothing. Such a method of taxing
is equivalent to saying, property shall be taxed without
reference to its mode of investment. Thus, exemption
would be avoided by simply refusing to consider what constitutes the basis of exemption. And this can be done as
well with reference to individuals as corporations. Individuals may be taxed on "a valuation" equal to the cost-price
of their property, "paid, or secured to be paid." This would
be just as definite and invariable as the assessment of corporations on a "valuation" equivalent to the amount of
capital stock paid in, or secured to be paid in, and so
exemption from taxing Government stock be avoided altogether.
The immunity from taxation arises from the fact of having
lent money to the Government, and taken evidences of debt
in lieu thereof. Exemption, in other words, arises from
having parted with capital, and being the present owner of
Government securities.
The State cannot tax the security in any way; but instead
of taxing what the bank has now, it taxes what the bank
had, i. e., what it had when it commenced business; or else
it taxes what it has now, at a valuation of what it had when
it commenced business. It is quite clear, therefore, that one
who has lent his money to the Government, though he is
not taxable on United States securities, is really taxed on
the sum which he has lent to the Government. It is mani
festly the same thing to tax the security and to tax the
Denio, 0. J., in People v. The Commissioners, 23 New York, 192.

De. 1864.]

BANK TAx CASE.
Argument against the tax.

money which produced the security. In either case alike,
the power of the Government to borrow money is taxed by
the State. But this power cannot be taxed. By the Constitution of the United States, Congress has power "to borrow money on the credit of the United States." This is one of
the constitutional means which the Government of the
United States is authorized to employ for its national purposes. As such, it is entirely beyond the interference,
legislation, and dominion of the States. This is not a concurrent power with taxation, but a concurrent power with
the right to borrow. Powers to be concurrent must be in
parimaterid. The principle of the exemption is based upon
the National Sovereignty and the supremacy of the Constitution, and all acts of the Government lawfully performed
under it. The National Sovereignty being conceded, "it is
of the very essence of supremacy to remove all obstacles to
its action within its own sphere, and so to modify every
power vested in the subordinate governments, as to exempt
its own operations from their influence."*
These principles have been determined by this court, and
must be conceded. Hence, it is sought to argue that the
State does not tax the power to borrow money, nor the
credit of the Government, nor the evidence of debt in the
hands of the lender; but only taxes the lender upon a fixed
valuation, without regard to the manner in which his property has been invested; in other words, that the mode of
investment is indifferent. The answer to this suggestion is,
that the tax necessarily falls on the Government, in whatever
way it is effected. The tax affects the value of the stock.
The Government which borrows money, subject to taxation,
will receive as much less per centum from the lender as
would nearly equal a capital sufficient to raise an interest
equivalent to the rate of taxation. Stock which at par would
pay six per cent. interest without taxation, would only be
worth sixty-six, if the lender be obliged to pay a tax of two
per cent. The tax is evidently a direct and immediate im* Marshall, C J.; McCulloch r. The State of Maryland, 4 Wheaton, 316

206

BANx

TAX CASE.

[Sup. C1.

Opinion of the court.

pediment to the power of borrowing money. If it reachcd
six per cent., it would exclude the Government from the
market, and annihilate a constitutional power essential to
the existence of the Government. "To tax the contract
when made must operate upon the power to borrow, before
it is exercised, and have a sensible influence on the contract." All taxes upon the transfer of property from lender
to borrower fall finally, as well as immediately, upon the
party to whom the property is transferred or lent. The
lender looks to his net income.
It being obvious that the burden of the tax, in whatever
mode levied, falls upon the National Government, the converse is equally true, that the privilege of exemption inures
to the benefit of the Government. It is not individuals-not
the lenders-who are benefited, but the United States. If
the lender is exempted, the Government has the advantage.
And this privilege is one which appertains to all the func.
tions of the Government, arising as it does from the supremacy of the Government.
It follows, that any method of State taxation which bears
upon the power of the United States to borrow money is
invalid.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The question involved is, whether or not the stock of the
United States, in which the capital of the Bank of the Commonwealth is invested, is liable to taxation by the State of
New York, under an act passed by its legislature -29th of
April, 1863, or, to state the question more directly, whether
or not that act imposes a tax upon these stocks thus invested
in the capital of the bank ?
It will be remembered that the previous act, the act of
1857, directed that the capital stock of the banks should be
a isessed and taxed at its actual value. By tue present act, as
is seen, the tax is imposed on a valuation equal to the amount
of their capitalpaid in or secured to be paid in, c.
Looking at the two acts, and endeavoring to ascertain the
'ateration or ehange in the law from the language used, the

Dec. 1864.]

BANK TA.X CASE.
Opinion of the court.

intent of the law-makers would seem to be quite plain,
namely, a change simply in the mode of ascertaining or
fixing the amount of the capital of the banks, which is made
the basis of taxation. By the former, the actual value of the
capital, as assessed by the commissioners, is prescribed. By
the latter, the capital paid in, or secured to be paid in, in the
aggregate, is the valuation prescribed. By the former, the
commissioners were bound to look into the financial condition of the banks, into the investments of their capital,
losses, and gains, and ascertain the best way they can the
sum of present value as the basis of taxation. By the latter,
they need only look into the condition of the banks in order
to ascertain the amount of the capital stoclk paid in, or secured to be paid in; and this sum, in the aggregate, will
constitute the basis. The rule of the present law is certainly
more simple and fixed than that of the former, and much
less burdensome to the commissioners or assessors, and in
its practical operation is, perhaps, as just. The former
mode involved an inquiry into the whole of the financial
operations of the bank, its several liabilities, and its available resources; often a complicated and difficult undertaking, and, at best, of uncertain results.
In order more fully to comprehend the meaning of the
language used in the act of 1868, it may be well to refer, for
a moment, to the system of the general banking law of 1838,
and the amendments of the same, under which these institutions have been organized.
Any number of persons may associate to establish a bank
under this law, but the aggregate amount of capital stock
shall not be less than $100,000. The instrument of association must specify, among other things, the amount of the
apitaL stock of the association, and the number of shares
into which the same shall be divided. It may also provide
for an increase of their capital and of the number of the
associates, from time to time, as may be thought proper.
The association is required to deposit with the superintendent of the bank department stocks of the State of New
York or of the United States, or bonds and mortgages upon

BANK TAX CASE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

real estate, at a prescribed valuation, before any bills or
notes shall be issued to it for circulation as currency. Nor
can it commence the business of banking until these securities have been deposited to the amount of $100,000. The
public debt and bonds and mortgages are to be held by the
superintendent exclusively for the redemption of the bills
and notes put in circulation as money until the same are
paid. And it is made the duty of the superintendent not to
countersign any bills or notes for an association to an
amount, in the aggregate, exceeding the public debt, or
public debt and bonds and mortgages so pledged. It is
true, the associations are *notobliged to invest more of their
capital paid in in stocks, or stocks and bonds and mortgages,
than is required as security, with the superintendent, for the
bills and notes delivered for circulation as currency. The
investment, however, cannot be for a less amount than
$100,000. It may exceed th at limit. But this reference to
the system shows that however large the amount of the
capital of the association, fixed by its articles and paid in,
the whole or any part of it may be lawfully invested in these
stocks. The whole need not be used as a pledge for the redemption of the bills or notes as currency, as the issuing of
these for circulation is only one branch of the business of
banking. The banks, therefore, were but obeying the injunction of the law in investing the capital paid in in these
stocks.
Now, when the capital of the banks is required or authorized by the law to be invested in stocks, and, among others,
in United States stock, under their charters or articles of
association, and this capital thus invested is made the basis
of taxation of the institutions, there is great difficulty ill
saying that it is not the stock thus constituting the corpus
or body of the capital that is taxed. It is not easy to separate the property in which the capital is invested from the
capital itself. It requires some refinement to separate the
two thus intimately blended together. The capital is not an
ideal, lictitious, arbitrary sum of money set down in the arti3les of association, but, in the theory and practical operation

Dec. 1864.]

BANK TAX CASE.

209

Opinion of the court.

of the system, is composed of substantial property, and
which gives value and solidity to the stock of the institution. It is the foundation of its credit in the business community. The legislature well knew the peculiar system
under which these institutions were incorporated, and the
working of it; and, when providing for a tax on their capital
at a valuation, they could not but have intended a tax upon
the property in which the capital had been invested. We
have seen that such is the practical effect of the tax, and we
think it would be doing injustice to the intelligence of the
legislature to hold that such was not their intent in the
enactment of the law.
We will add, that we have looked with some care through
the statutes of New York relating to the taxation of moneyed
corporations, including the act of 1823, in which the first
material change was made in the system, the act of 1825,
the revision of 1830, the acts of 1857 and of 1863; and it
will be seen in all of them that the tax is imposed on the
property of the institutions, as contradistinguished from a
tax upon their privileges or franchises. Since the act of
1825, the capital has been adopted as the basis of taxation,
as furnishing the best criterion of the value of the property
of which these institutions were possessed. Under their
charters or articles of association, this amount was paid in,
or secured to be paid in, by the stockholders or associates to
the corporate body, or ideal person, constituting the capital
stock, to be managed and disposed of by directors or trustees in furtherance of the objects and purposes for which the
institutions were created. It constituted the fund raised by
the corporators, with which the institutions began and carried on the particular business in which they were engaged.
The injunction of the charters, which required this capital
to be paid in, made it necessarily substantial property. The
amount might fluctuate according to the good or ill fortune
of the enterprise. It might become enhanced by gains in
business, or .diminished by losses; but, whether the one or
the other, the tax in contemplation of the legislature and of
the charters was imposed on the property of the institution
voL. IT.

14

!410

FLORENTINE V. BARTON.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

consisting of its capital. In case of a permanent loss, a
remedy against grievous taxation was always at hand by a
reduction of the capital.
Having come to the conclusion that the tax on the capital
of the Bank of the Commonwealth is a tax on the property
of the institution, and which consists of the stocks of the
United States, we do not perceive how the case can be distinguished from that of the Bank of Commerce v. New York
City, 2 Black, 620, heretofore before this court.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the cause remitted, with directions to enter judgment in conformity with this opinion.

FLORENTINE v. BARTON.
A State legislature may, constitutionally, pass a private act authorizing a
court to decree, on the petition of an administrator, privafe sale of the
real estate of an intestate to pay his debts, even though the act should
not require notice to heirs or to any one, and although the same general
subject is regulated by general statute much more full and provident in
its nature.
In making the order of sale under such private act, the court is presumed
to have adjudged every question necessary to justify such order or
decree, viz. : The death of the owners; that the petitioners were his
administrators; that the personal estate was insufficient to pay the
debts of deceased; that the private acts of Assembly, as to tho manner
of sale, were within the constitutional power of the legislature, and that
all the provisions of th-e law as to notices which are directory to the
administrators have been complied with. Nor need it enter upon the
record the evidence on which any fact is decided. Especially does all
this apply after long lapse of time.

A GENERAL statute of Illinois, passed at an early day, en-

acted that, when any administrator whose intestate had died
leaving real estate, should discover that the personal estate
was insufficient to pay his debts, such administrator should
make and deliver to the Circuit Court of the county, an
account of the debts and personal estate of such his intestate,

