THE SLAVERS.

(KATE.)

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

THE SLAVERS. (KATE.)
I. Where a vessel is bound to the western .coast of Africa, under such circumstances as raise a presumption that she may be about to engage in
the slave-trade,-such circumstances, ex gr., as a professed sale at an
excessive price, just before the contemplated voyage, a false crew-list,
an equipment not unsuited for a slave voyage, a cargo not fully on the
manifest, suspicious character or conduct, in the immediate matter, of
her crew, or of other persons connected with her, an appearance and
subsequent disappearance of an unknown person, with a Spanish name,
as claimant,-she must clearly explain those circumstances under pain
of forfeiture.
2. Persons trading to the west coast of Africa, on which coast two kinds
of commerce are carried on,-one (the regular trade) lawful, the other
(the slave trade) criminal,-should keep their operations so clear and
distinct in their character, as to repel the imputation of a purpose to
engage in the latter.

THE United States filed a libel of information and for.
feiture in the District Court for the Southern District of
New York, against the bark Kate, her cargo, &c., alleging
that she had been equipped, fitted, loaded, and prepared "for
the purpose" of carrying on a trade in slaves, within the acts
of Congress of March 22, 1794,* and 20th of April, 1818 ;t
which acts make such equipping, fitting, preparations, &c.,
cause of forfeiture. The question, therefore, was, whether
the vessel had been fitted with that purpose.
The case was one of four; all like each other, in their
general aspects, and reported here in immediate sequence;
cases, all, where confessedly the proof of unlawful purpose
was not of the most direct kind. The present case was
thus:
The Kate, then purporting to be owned by B. & A. Buck,
of Baltimore, Maryland (C. W. Buck being master), arrived
at New York from Havana on the 17th of May, 1860, with
a cargo of rum, wine, copper, sugar, &c., consigned to one
Antonio Ross, of New York.
Six days after her arrival at New York, B. & A. Buck, by
* 1 Stat. at Large, 347.

t 8 Id. 450.

Dec. 1864.]

THE SLAVERS. (KATE.)
Statement of the case.

C. W. Buck, as their attorney, purported to sell the vessel
to "0. P. Lake, of Brooklyn, State of INew York;" the consideration stated being $10,500. [She was appraised soon
after by the custom-house appraisers at $4000.]
The vessel was of about 250 tons, with one deck, three
masts; was 114 feet long, 26 wide, and 10 deep; sharp built,
and had sixteen or eighteen yare spars and sails; there was
an iron tank six feet square, for water, in the hold.
Sht was registered on oath of "C. P. Lake, of Brooklyn,
State of New York," on the 80th of May, 1860. The register bond was executed on the same day, by Lake, Frederick
Otto, and H. C. Smith, and describes Otto as then master
of the vessel. Smith was the custom-house broker who
cleared the vessel. He appeared to have cleared vessels on
former occasions for the slave trade. The Kate was cleared
on the 3d of July, 1860, "bound for Cape Palmas and ports
on the west coast of Africa," and put to sea on that day. She
bad not gone far before she was seized, as mentioned hereafter, by Captain Faunce, of the United States Revenue Cutter Harriet Lane, and brought back; libelled for forfeiture,
and her cargo placed in a public warehouse. A stipulation
having been given for value and costs, she was released,
and about the middle of September, cleared by Smith again
for sea, Lake, the person above mentioned as "purchaser,"
swearing that "he chartered the vessel for a voyage to the
coast of Africa, trading and return to New York, and that
the vessel was loaded with the goods of the chartererand ready
for sea on the 2d of July."
The outward manifest of the cargo of the Kate, presented
at the custom-house on the 8d of July, 1860, declared that
it was to be landed at Cape Palmas and leeward ports, west
coast of Africa, but named no consignee. It was valued at
$7000, and included large quantities of rum and other liquors,
beef, pork, tongues, rice, and bread, 5000 feet of lumber,
82 water-casks, filled with fresh water, hoop-iron, vinegar,
iron pots, pails, drugs, &c. The lumber was piled on the
water casks, and formed a flooring throughout the length
of the vessel, and the cargo was over that. The shipper's

THE SLAVERS. (KATE.)

[Sup. t

Statement of the case.

manifest, purporting to be of part of cargo shipped by Jose
Hernandez, &c., for the same destination, and without designating either consignee or place where it was to be landed,
embraced all of the goods, &c., reported in the manifest first
named, and about $200 worth barrels of beef and tongues,
not reported in it.
After her second seizure, it was found that the vessel had
on board some articles which were not reported to the custom-house; among them, bread, beef, and pork, coils of
rope, zinc, lime, sand, tar, flour, rice, potatoes, globe lanterns, pewter pitchers, a surf-boat, stove, and a variety of
articles of food. The boxes manifested as containing "iron
pots" contained furnaces, with boilers on top, which could
be used for cooking a quarter of a barrel of rice each. They
were termed '' boxes of hardware."
The shipping articles of 3d July, which declared the vessel "bound for Cape Palmas and a market, and back to a
final port of discharge in the United States," showed thirteen
men besides the captain, a somewhat large crew, perhaps,
for an ordinary trading vessel of the size of the Kate. The
crew list appended to it was inaccurate in some particulars.
All the crew were represented as having been born in the
United States; whereas Otto W. Raven, the first mate, who
was put down as "0. J. N. Raven, born in New York," was
a German, and had begun to go to sea at Bremen seventeen
years before, about which time he came to New York, and
was afterwards naturalized. He had been four or five times
to the coast of Africa; the last time in the bark Cora, since
seized as a slaver. The second mate was entered by the
American name of Francis Stevens, born in Louisiana; he
was a Portuguese, named Stevo. How many of the rest
were Americans did not appear. The shipping articles for
the September voyage-whatever voyage it was-were in
like form, with the same number of crew list, retaining the
two mates and most of the men on the first, and repeating
the same designations, except that Stevens was here said to
have been born in New York.
On the 3d of July, 1860, when the Kate first started, she

Dec. 1864.1

THE SLAVERS. (KATE.)

358

Statement of the case.

was getting out to sea, when Captain Faunce, of the revenue
cutter Harriet Lane, noticed the small tug Magnolia approaching her. He boarded the tug, and sent a customs
officer to take charge of the Kate. On the tug was a man
named Da Costa, a Portuguese, whom the boarding officer
said tha' he recognized as a person that he had seized in
1856, with others, on board the slaver Braman, and who had
been indicted, in July, 1856, as owner and builder of that
vessel, and for causing her to be sent into the slave-trade.
This man, or whoever else it was that was then seized, forfeited his recognizance in 1856, and having been afterwards
surrendered by his surety, escaped from the officer. The
tug had been hired by Otto to take him and Da Costa down
the bay and put them on board the Kate, after she had gone
some distance from port. It was after Otto had been put on
board the Kate that she was seized, Da Costa remaining still
on board the tug. When, afterwards, Da Costa was brought
on the Kate, Otto denied that he had ever seen him before;
inquired who he was, and if he was in the custom-house
department; said he did not know him, and the parties did
not appear to recognize each other. But at the same time,
as was testified to by some person belonging to the Harriet
Lane, they communicated with each other secretly through
the mate, Raven, who also appeared not to know Da Costa.
On the same day, McCormick, agent for the tug, who had
carried Otto and Da Costa to the Kate, prayed Judge Russell, City Judge of New York, for a writ of habeas corpus for
the release of Da Costa, under the name of John Garcia,
then detained by Captain Faunce, which writ was issued.
On the 5th of July, however, a warrant issued out of the
United States District Court for his arrest as Henrico Da
Costa, on the pending indictment in the Braman case; and
having been held on that charge, he was discharged on recognizance on the 18th of September, since when he had
not been heard from. When taken from the tug, he asserted
himself to be Garcia, and not Da Costa. He also pretended
to be ignorant of our language, but was proved to have understood it. He was not produced by the claimant to exVOL. I1.

23

THE SLAVERS. (KATE.)

[Sup. t

Opinion of the District Judge.

plain these facts, nor were they explained from any othei
sources.
As already noticed, the name of the shipper of the Kate's
cargo on the 8d of July, who swore to the shipper's manifest
on that day, was Jose Hernandez. Da Costa was then in New
York. When the manifest of cargo was again presented to
the custom-house for a clearance, on the 14th or 15th of
September, the name of Jose Hernandez did not appear on
it as shipper; no shipper, in fact, appeared to make oath at
that time. Da Costa was then in custody of the marshalon the
charge for which he stood indicted. "Hlernandez" never appeared either as claimant or witness, nor was any account
given of him.
The bark and all her cargo was either adapted or capable of
being adapted to a slave voyage.
On the other hand, it was shown by one Machado, a Portuguese, long in the African trade, and a person frequently
summoned in slave cases, and by Smalley, a stevedore, engaged in loading vessels for the west coast of Africa, and by
other persons of better standing than either, that there is a
regular trade with Cape Palmas and the west coast of Africa;
that houses of unquestionable integrity in New York are
engaged in it; that the vesel, as respected size, was suitable
enough for the legitimate trade; also, that every article on the
manifest of this vessel was well adapted to it; staple articles in demand and consumption by the native Africans; articles which the
inhabitants of that country buy, andfor which they pay in the naturalproducts-palmoil, hides, gold dust, ivory, and other thingsindigenous to their own region.
No manacles were found upon the vessel, norunnecessary chains
or fastenings, nor any supply of medicines unusual in a lawful
voyage.
The District Judge (Betts) gave an opinion, laying down
principles of evidence, in application to this class of cases,
ax follows:
'In actions of this class, the Government is not restricted to
proof of positive facts in laying a foundation for a presumptio

Dec. 1864.]

THE

SLAVERS.

(KATE.)

Opinion of the District Judge.

or inference that acts have been done in violation of law, but
they may invoke circumstances calculated to raise suspicions
that the purpose of mind or matter inducing the acts performed
were illicit; which suspicions must avail as convicting evidence,
unless countervailed or explained by proofs in the power of the
claimant to furnish. In the earlier seizures and prosecutions
under the slave acts, vessels employed in the trade were found
fitted out with arrangements so manifestly designed for that
business, that the circumstantial proofs furnished by their preparations and equipment were nearly equivalent to positive testimony. The species of indirect or circumstantial proofs of that
order, and then generally regarded as necessary to a conviction,
were made public law by the treaty between England and
Spain, so far as those high contracting parties were concerned,
and were generally acquiesced in by courts of the United States
as laying down a safe rule of evidence. It soon grew almost
into the course of the courts to look for and demand that extreme force of circumstantial evidence to inflict the condemnation of a vessel upon presumptive proofs alone. Very soon
slave-traders discarded sets of manacles as part of their preparation. A slave deck was no longer found laid in the vessel or
prepared for putting down. She exposed no longer an extraordinary supply of provisions, medicines, or equipments specially
adapted to the use of slaves, or other conveniences (except, perhaps, large supplies of water or water-casks) peculiar to the
trade, on examination of the ship, or a mere inspection of her
outfit, to become very forcible evidence of her business and destination. For years past these insignia of slavers, except supplies of water, have disappeared from vessels detected in the
trade and laden with slaves on actual transportation; and it has
become notorious, from publications of writers thoroughly conversant with the course of the business, from proofs in courts
of justice on the trial of vessels seized for violations of the laws,
from public documents and the decisions in cases of the arrest
of vessels for the offence, that slaving vessels are now employed
in the trade, fitted and cleared at ports abroad and in this country openly, with the appearance of lawful traders carrying substantially like cargoes and equipments as those which pursue a
lawful trade on the coast of Africa; and that on arrival out to
the point where slave cargoes are collected, the ship is, impromptu,
put in- a state tq receive their victims on board, and is thus en-

356

TH, SLAVERS. (KATE.)

[Sup. C

Argument for liberation of the Bark.
abled, often in one hour's time, to become transmuted from the
fitment and aspect of an honest trader to a slaver under way,
laden with hundreds of human beings on transportation to foreign
markets as merchandise.* This new' practice of discarding from
the preparation of slaving vessels most of the insignia of their
real design, and, on the contrary, giving them the semblance of
lawful traders, yet possessing the faculty of using at once, in
their condition, the means necessary to accomplish their nefarious calling, appeals impressively to justice to put in active
service all the capabilities of the law of evidence in order to
detect and thwart the imposition and crimes attempted to be
carried out. Accordingly, in support and accordance with the
doctrine that when the evidence on the part of the Government
creates strong suspicionsor well-grounded suspicions that the vessel
seized as being employed in the slave-trade was fitted out or
fitting out for that purpose, the decisions in this court have been
uniform and distinct, that such evidence must produce her conviction and condemnation, unless rebutted by clear and satisfactory proofs on the part of the claimants, showing her voyage to
be a lawful one."
His honor accordingly condemned the bark, and the Circuit Court having affirmed the decree, the case was now here
by appeal.
Messrs. Donohue, -varts, and Gilet, for the appellants,owners
of the bark Kate, or of other vessels under sentence appealedfrom.
I. The burden of proof is upon the Government to show,
affirmatively, that the vessel was fitted out, &c., for the purpose of carrying on the slave-trade.
1. Because this traffic is a heinous offence against religion,
morals, and the law of nature.
2. Because, by statute, it has been declared piracy.
8. Because the proceeding is for the enforcement of a
severe forfeiture.
Canot's Narrative of the Slave-Trade; Lieutenant Foster's Nctes on
Africa, Exec. Doc. 2d sess. 28th Cong. No. 148; The United States v. The
Butterfly, U. S. Dist. Court, MSS. 1840; The United States v. The Bark
Laurens; also in this Court Scrap-Book, 158, July, 1849.
*

Dec. 1864.]

THE SLAVERS. (KATE.)
Argument for liberation of the Bark.

The legal presumption, therefore, is, that the fitting out
of the bark was for a lawful purpose.
II. As to the kind and quantity of proof, upon which
alone a forfeiture can be declared.
1. The simple fact that the bark was bound for the coast
of Africa with such a cargo on board as is usually taken
there for the purpose of lawful trade, can raise no legal presumption against her. Upon such a case, the law would
presume her voyage innocent, however a suspicious person
might suspect the contrary.
2. It is true that a lawful cargo is consistent with an illegal
purpose to engage the vessel containing it in the slave-trade
on reaching the African coast; but to forfeit or convict upon
that ground, there must be positive proof of such guilty
purpose. It is the preparationof the vessel, and the purpose
with which this is done, which constitute the offence; and
this guilty purpose must be affirmatively made out by such
proof as shall leave no reasonable doubt on the subject.*
If the cargo and equipments of the vessel are all innocent
in their own nature, a forfeiture may, nevertheless, be decreed, provided there be positive proof of a guilty intention to
employ her in the slave-trade. But not otherwise.t It was
only by disregarding these principles-which are as ancient
as the law itself-that the court below was enabled to pronounce the decree of forfeiture, from which this appeal was
taken.
Eli. Let us examine the evidence and the circumstances
relied upon to sustain the decree.
1. There was nothing in the destination of the bark indicating an unlawful purpose. She was bound for Cape
Palmas and the western coast of Africa. It is admitted
that lawful commerce can be carried on with that country
as much as with England or France.
2. There was nothing in the size of the bark to indicate
* The Emily and Caroline, 9 Wheaton, F81, 889; United States v. Good
ing, 12 Id. 460, 472, &c.
t The Plattsburg, l1 Id. 183, 140.

THE SLAVERS. (KATE.)

[Sp
LIP C

Argument for liberation of the Bark.

that she was intended to be employed in an unlawful trade,
She was of the usual tonnage of vessels sent to the western
African coast upon legal voyages.
3. There was nothing in the other characteristics of the
bark, her outfit, equipments, or cargo, which was not entirely suitable for a lawful voyage, or which was in any respect inconsistent with the purpose of prosecuting a lawful
trade. This, in effect, is conceded.
There is, in fact, therefore, nothing but the testimony of
inferior revenue officers, common sailors, custom-house
clerks, and persons of slight weight; the testimony which
they gave, even if it came from good sources, being most
unsatisfactory. How uncertain is the fact of Da Costa's
identity with Garcia! How little trustworthy much of all
that was testified about the conduct of Otto ! [The counsel
here went into the evidence of particular facts, discrediting
it largely.] The case of the Government rests, in short, on
the fact that the vessel was about to sail for the western
coast of Africa, where two sorts of trade are carried on,one lawful, the other criminal,-and that she does not feel
bound to prove, affirmatively, that she was not about to engage in the criminal one. It rests on an unsatisfied surmise,
arrived at by the absence of positive testimony. Is this
court ready to lay down, as a rule of evidence, that every
vessel about to sail for the African coast shall, ipsofacto, be
presumed guilty of a purpose to engage in the slave-trade,
unless she proves herself, affirmatively, innocent? Congress
may, no doubt, enact by statute that this shall be so. It may
or may not be well that Congress should so enact. But
neither the spirit nor the decisions of the common law, as
yet, have ever declared that such a presumption has existence anywhere in the law of evidence.
The country is desirous to see the African slave-trade
exterminated. It may be said to have a deep interest in
hastening that result. But it should be more desirous
still-it has no interest deeper- _that the great laws of evidence, by which property and reputation and life itself are
maintained, be scrupulously respected. Not only justice,

Dec. 1864.]

THE SLAVERS.

859

(KATE.)

Argument for condemnation.

but justice judicially administered, and to be administered,
is the standing interest of all commonwealths; of this not
less than of any other. We address'ourselves to the "judicial conscience" of the court. We protest against the doctrine laid down in the District Court, that men are to be
deprived of property, life, and character-for a forfeit of
all these are the penalties of engaging in the slave-tradeon any "suspicions," however strong. When we hear a
learned judge of America, in this nineteenth century, thus
speaking from the seat of judgment, it is well to recur to
the wisdom of a former day. A great English chancellor*
spake differently. "Suspicions among thoughts," said he,
"are like bats among birds; they fly ever by twilight.
Certainly they are to be repressed, or at the least well
guarded; for they cloud the mind. They are defects, not
in the heart, but in the brain. There is nothing makes a
man suspect more than to know little; and, therefore, men
should remedy suspicion by seeking to know more, and not
to keep their suspicions in smother."t
Mr.Assistant Attorney- GeneralAshton, for the United States.
The slave-trade, it is known, is carried on at this moment
to a frightful extent on American vessels from American
ports, and by the aid of American capital. Millions of dollars are said to be invested in the traffic. Why is this?
The fault is not with our people, nor with Congress; the
last of which, from the foundation of our Government, and
the former from before, have uninterruptedly, faithfully,
and most conscientiously, been endeavoring to extirpate
this horrid inheritance, left us as a charge by the rapacity
of our British and French ancestors. The fault is not with
our navy, of which so many gallant crews and officers fall
annually a sacrifice to the malignant fevers of the African
coast, in their service upon our Treaty squadron. And the
fault has not been with our courts, where law is adninis-

tered with ability, learning, and impartiality.
* Bacon.

Yet, in spite

t Essays: Of Suspicion.

THE

SLAvFRS. (KAT13.)

[Sup. Ct.
[u.C

Argument for condemnation.

of laws, navy, and courts, aided and supported by the feeling of the whole country, the illegal traffic continues in
open day. What, again, we may ask, is the cause of this?
In this day this traffic is so managed, that while every one
knows the truth of the case, the truth of the case is always
defeated; that while every one can point out the felon, the
felon still walks abroad, sworn to and certified an innocent
man. By plan, no one reveals his true character. Fraud
is ingenious in device. The trade, however amenable in
reality to the law, is now carried on with a regular machinery to evade law. This is a prerequisite of the trade;
an invariable part of it; a machinery which requires lies,
fraud, and perjury at the bottom of everything; a machinery
of agents and foreigners, regularly prearranged in anticipation of discovery; having no reality for any purpose, and
no design but to circumvent justice.
General characteristics, however, still adhere. The course
of a defence on a libel, such as this one, can be calculated
as certainly as the course of any moral thing whose laws are
settled and known to us.
In cases of guilt, the following are standing indicia:
1. A sale of the vessel, not long before the projected voyage, and generally at an extravagant price.
2. A crew-list which is false: foreigners, Portuguese and
Spaniards chiefly, shipped as Americans.
3. Stock witnesses: Machados, Smalleys and Smiths,-all
known at the custom-house as well as noted thieves are at
the chief's of police.
4. A set offiguran~s, who appear at every emergency, and
in any character; owners, shippers, charterers, persons having all interest, no interest, or any interest between; and
who disappear;-this disappearance being just at those moments when a gibbet becomes visible in the background;
the Da Costas, Hernandez, (Jarcias, Ottos of this case, and
of every slaver libel or indictment; sometimes bearing
gne name, sometimes another; at one time Spaniards ox
Portuguese, at another our own people. An appearance,
qs claimants on the record, mder their own or an assumed

Dec. 1864.]

THE

SLAVERS. (KATE.)

Argument for condemnation.

name, of parties interested in the vessel or cargo, when the
seizure is first made, and their subsequent disappearance,when their claim is to be maintained in court,-is a common
characteristic.
5. A cargo scrupulously proper for the lawful trade; but
with this characteristic of it, that every item of it is equally
applicable to the slave-trade, and can easily and instantly be
so converted and applied.
6. No attempt to show that the special voyage is a lawful
one; or that a reputable house has to do with this vessel;
although the whole defence is based on the fact that a lawful
commerce is extensively carried on with the west coast of
Africa, and that the houses which carry it on are well
known, and never supposed to have in view any voyage but
a lawful one. A total failure, in short, by everybody, to
produce the ship's papers, showing the real purpose of the
voyage or cargo, or to give the Government a clue to where
such evidence might be obtained.
These characteristics of guilt consist as well in what is sure
to be sworn to as in what it is never attempted to prove.
Now, all the standing characteristics appear here, and one
of them strikingly. Da Costa and Hernandez, if not one
myth, are plainly one man. And HYernandez appears as
shipper in July, 1860, and does not appear in September
following, when equally wanted, only because Da Costa was
at large in the former month, and a culprit under seizure, or
fled away in the latter.
But this case has special characteristics. [Mr. Ashton here
arranged, grouped, and presented the particular facts in such
a way as to make them bear with force upon his cause.]
But we need not enforce these. We rather enunciate principles applicable not less to this than to other cases now before the court,-the Sarah, Weathergage, and Reindeer,
heard, or to be heard; cases distinguishable from the present case only by having, as in the Sarah, water-casks "in
shooks," instead of casks erected; or, as in the Weathergage, a clearance for .Hong.Zongvid Ambriz, on the western
coast, instead of a clearance to Cape Palmas; or, as in the

362

THE SLAVERS. (KATE.)

[Sup. OC.

Argument for condemnation.

third and last-named, a roundabout voyage by way of Ha,
vana, and a fraudulent attachment laid to arrest our forfeiture; cases in which the arguments may not be much
reported; being, as they will be, but repetitions of those in
this; and cases to be affirmed or reversed, probably, as this
one may be.
We assert, as a true rule of evidence in regard to these
slaver voyages, the rule laid down by the District Judge; a
gentleman who brings to every class of question, high intelligence, of course, but to this class brings specially as
well, an advantage which no intelligence could give,-the
advantage of "old experience" with the shipping business
of our great American port. In speaking of invoking "circumstances calculated to raise suspicions," he may not have
spoken philologically well, but he spoke well practically;
for his meaning is obvious, and his idea is right. When
we are dealing with the slave-dealer, we are dealing not only
with the most depraved and most cruel of human beings,
but one who is the most crafty also; "one who would circumvent God." What the learned justice meant was this:
that a degree of circumstantial evidence which would be insufficient, in allegations of most crime, to convict, is enough
here to put parties to the proof that their business was a
lawful one. The observation was right when applied, as it
was, to a class of persons whose art is the ars celare artem; to
a trade where the avarice and wicked invention of Europe
and America alike have been engaged for half a century,
with the gallows in view before the operator, as the penalty
of failure,-in reducing to a science the art of stealing men;
of practising the most frightful theft of the world, and not
to leave a trace of it behind. The party alleging a guilty
intention is compelled, it must be remembered, to extract
evidence of it from acts and preparations designed to conceal
it, and to rely .on such facts of suspicious aspect as accident,
carelessness, or the natural incongruity between truth and
falsehood, may develop. We are lere inquiring into a purpoge. Where the guilty purpose is hidden under the guise
of a lawful enterprise, with such skill and adroitness as the

Dec. 1864.]

THE SLAVERS.

(KATE.)

Opinion of the court.

slave-traders are well known to have exhibited, those sus.
picious facts are apt to be few and insignificant. When they
are discovered and proved, their ordinary force ought to be
greatly strengthened by the failure of a party on whom they
are fastened to make full and frank explanation of them.
And the force of such suspicions will increase in proportion
as their explanation is easy to the party. The claimant,
although he, and he only, holds the clues to these mysteries,
will not disclose them, but chooses rather to rest under the
shadow of the suspicions and presumptions they arouse,
than to subject them to the light of full and free investigation.
On the whole, we apprehend that the case falls within the
spirit of The Emily and Caroline.* This court there said:
"There was no attempt whatever to explain the object of
these peculiar fitments, or to show that the destination of
the vessel was other than that of the slave-trade. We may,
therefore, safely conclude, that the purpose for which these
vessels were fitting was the slave-trade."
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The libel charges that the vessel was prepared at New
York, in the summer of 1860, for the purpose of trade in
slaves, contrary to the acts of Congress in that behalf; by
reason whereof, and by virtue of the acts, the bark, her
tackle, apparel, furniture, and lading became forfeited.
There is no question of the construction of the acts of Congress, prohibiting the slave-trade, or of the forfeiture, if the
allegations of the libel were established by proof. The case
therefore turns on the evidence.
In considering this evidence, it is to be borne in mind,
that for more than three hundred years the western coast of
Africa has been scourged by the atrocities of the slavetrade; and that this inhuman traffic, although at length
proscribed and pursued with severe penalties by nearly all
Christian nations, has continued, with almost unabated ac.
* 9 Wheaton, 881.

864

TiE

SLAVERS. -KATE.)

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tivity and ferocity, even to our times. Fears of forfeiturb
of property, and even of life, have been easily overcome by
hopes of enormous gains, and so long as markets for slaves
remain open, and imperfect execution of the laws permits
the expectation of profit from crime, the most conspicuous
results of penal legislation will be, more cunning in the
contrivance and more adroitness in the use of means for
evading or defeating its intent and operation. The difficulty
of penetrating the disguises of crime is enhanced in the case
of the slave-trade by the circumstance that a very considerable traffic, regarded as legitimate, has sprung up and is carried on with the same African coast from which human
cargoes are collected. It does not seem unreasonable, since
it is the paramount interest of humanity that the traffic in
men be, at all events, arrested, to require of the trader, who
engages in a commerce, which, although not unlawful, is
necessarily suspicious from its theatre and circumstances,
that he keep his operations so clear and so distinct in their
character, as to repel the imputation of prohibited purpose.
The bark Kate arrived from Havana at New York about
the 17th of May, with a cargo consigned to parties there.
She was then apparently owned by Benjamin Buck and
Alfred Buck, of Baltimore, and was commanded by C.
W. Buck as master. Some six days after her arrival, she
seems to have been sold by the master, as attorney for the
owners, to one Lake, for $10,500. She was registered on the
30th of May, 1860, as owned by Lake, and commanded by
one Frederick Otto. Her crew-list, sworn to by Otto, on the
3d of July, 1860, does not state the rank or employment of
any of the persons named, but describes one, 0. F. N. Raven
as born in New York, and another, Francis Stevens, as born
in Louisiana. Another crew-list, made out in September.
describes Raven as mate, and as born in New York, and
Stevens as second mate, and as born also in New York.
The equipment of the bark was somewhat peculiar. She
had an unusually large number of spars and sails; was provided with the water-casks and tanks necessary for a slaver;

Dec. 1864.]

THE SLAVERS. (KATE.)
Opinion of the court.

and had a large quantity of articles, not on her manifest,
suited to the purposes of the trade.
She was twice seized: first, after being cleared and having
sailed on the 3d of July, 1860, for Cape Palmas and ports
on the west coast of Africa; and again, after refusal of her
second application for clearance and before sailing.
The shipper's manifest, dated July 3, 1860, purporting to
be of part of cargo, embraced all the articles mentioned in
the manifest delivered to the custom-house, and a number
of barrels of beef and tongues in addition. This shipper's
manifest was signed Jose Hernandez. The record shows no
manifest of her second cargo; but the return of the inspectors, under whose supervision it was unladen, shows that it
was composed substantially of the same articles as the first.
When the bark was first seized, she was accompanied outside the harbor by a tug, which conveyed the captain, Otto,
and one Da Costa. This Da Costa had, some four years before, been indicted for slave-trading, and had forfeited his
recognizance, and had evaded the officers of the law. He
pretended to be a stranger to Otto; to be ignorant of our
language, and to have no connection with the bark; but
trunks marked with his name were found in her cabin; he
was detected exchanging signs with Otto, and it was soon
discovered that his ignorance of our language was a more
pretence. Hernandez, who represented himself as shiprer
of part of the cargo, but whose manifest of part included
every article on the custom-house manifest, and several
others, never appeared to protect his interest. There is
reason to think that the name was but an aliasfor Da Costa.
Lake, who alone intervened to claim both the bark and
the cargo, says that the vessel was chartered for the African
voyage, and loaded with the goods of the charterer; but he
does not name the charterer, nor offer any evidence of the
ownership of the goods. The proof, so far as it affords any
light on this point, indicates Hernandez or Da Costa as the
owner. Lake asserts that he bought the vessel for $10,500;
while the appraiser's valuation is at $4000. It seems highly
improbable that he paid a price so disproportioned to value,

366

TIlE SLAVERS. (SARAL.)

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

for the mere purpose of chartering her for an ordinary
trading voyage. The charter-party is not produced, nor is
any reason given for its non-production. The crew-list represented all the persons named on it as Americans born,
and it was sworn to by Otto, but the proof shows conclusively, that no'.her the master nor mate were Americans,
and deprives the oath, which represents the others as such,
of all claim to credit.
We do net think it necessary to examine the evidence more
in detail. The case presents none of the marks of an honest
transaction, but bears upon it such indications of the guilty
purpose to employ the bark in the slave-trade, that we
should require clear explanation by convincing proof to
repel the conclusion that such was her destined employment.
But there is no such explanation. There is no attempt to
clear the case of the damaging inferences which the destina
tion of the voyage, the character of the vessel and cargo, and
the character and acts of the parties prominently connected
with both, irresistibly suggest.
We conclude, therefore, that both were rightly condemned
by the District Court, and
AF~iRm ITS DECREE.

THE SLAVERS. (SAR~AH.)
The principles of the preceding case (The Kate), redeclared in, this case,
and a vessel bound to the west coast of Africa, condemned under circumstances-individually not very strong, but collectively of weigat-raising a presumption, which there was no attempt to overcome by
explanation, that she was about to engage in the slave-trade.

LIKE the preceding case, this was a libel of forfeiture, filed
in the District Court for the Southern District of New York,
against a vessel and cargo, under the 1st section of the act
of Congress of 22d March, 1794,* and the 2d of that of 20th
April, 1818,t prohibiting persons engaging in the slavetrade.
*I Stat. at Large, 347-

-t 3 Id. 450.

