THE M ORNING LIGUT.

[Sayi. etL

Statement of the case.

True measure of damages in this case was the loss which
the libellant sustained by the sinking of his vessel, which, as
the commissioner reported, was five thousand dollars. He
lost that amount, and there is no proof in the case that he
lost anything more, for which any claim is made in the libel.
Stipulation for value filed by the claimants was for that sum,
and consequently the libellant is entitled to a decree against
the stipulators for that sum, as the value of the vessel and
no more, because they never agreed to be bound for any
greater sum.
Argument of the libellant is, that he is entitled to nterest
on that sum as against the stipulators for value, but it is a
sufficient answer to the proposition to say that this c.ourt has
expressly decided otherwise, and we adhere to that decision.*
Separate stipulation was filed for costs, and, of course, the
libellant is entitled to full costs in the District and Circuit
Courts, unless the amount exceeds the sum specified in the
stipulation. He is, also, entitled to a decree of affirmance
upon the merits, but without costs in this court, and the decree of the Circuit Court must be modified as to the damages
so as to conform to views expressed in this opinion.
THE DECREE AFFIRMED AS MODIFID.

THE MORNING LIGHT.
1. A vessel astern of another cannot be held in fault for not complying
with the rule which obliges the rear vessel to keep out of the way of
one ahead, when it is so darr that the latter vessel cannot be seen by
the former.
2. As a general rule, there is no obligation on a sailing vessel proceeding
on her voyage to shorten sail or lie to because the night is so dark that
an approaching vessel cannot be seen.
8. A collision resulting from the darkness of the night, and without the
fault of either party, is an "inevitable accident."

from the decree in admiralty of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
About the 6th of August, 1855, the brigs Jerry Fowler and
APPEAL

* Hemmenway v. Fisher, 20 Howard, 258.

Dec. 1864.]

THE

MORNING LIuHT.

Statement of the case.

Pforning Light, in a dark and rainy night, were pursuing a
voyage off the coast of Rhode Island through Buzzard's Bay
and Martha's Vineyard, eastward, with the wind from the
northeast, the Jerry Fowler being the head vessel and the
Morning Light in her rear, both vessels running on their
starboard tacks on about a common course. At 4 o'clock
in the morning of that day a collision occurred between
them, the stem or bows of the Morning Light breaking
through the starboard side of the Jerry Fowler near her
main rigging, so that the latter vessel, with her cargo, was,
by the collision, sunk, and became a total loss.
The Alliance and other insurance companies, who, had
connectedly underwritten upon the Jerry Fowler in stated
proportions, paid the amount of their policies, and unitedly
filed their libel in the District Court for the Southern District of New York (Betts, J.), to recover from the Moruing
Light the sums so paid. The answer set up inevitable accident as a defence.
The Jerry Fowler, at the time of the collision, was either
in the act of completing her tack, or had just coe round
from the larboard to the starboard tack, and come underway
on the last tack; the evidence as to her particular position
when the two vessels came in contact not being exactly concurrent upon that fact on either side. She was tacked, not
because of any actual necessity from the nearness of shoals
or dangerous impediments, but because her master thought
she had approached so near the Cutterhunk Shoalh as to
render it proper, in the darkness of the night, to change her
course. It proved she was not, in reality, withi five or six
miles of the supposed reefs.
The wind was about a five or six knot breeze during the
greater portion of the night, but it was not steady. There
were fogs, and the rain came on in fog showers. Neither
vessel had unusual sail up, and both appeared to have been
well manned and navigated with care. There was no attempt to prove that the Morning Light had, at any time,
shortened sail or lain to.
The witnesses on each vessel asserted that a light was sus-

552

THE MORNING LIGHT.

[Sup. Ot,

Statement of the case.

pended in a place for being easily seen from the other; and
on each side it is asserted that neither discovered any light
exhibited upon the other vessel. The witnesses on the Morning Light testified to a darkness so extreme as to disable
them discerning objects distant less than her length off.
Some on the Jerry Fowler state that they saw the other
vessel coming upon them half a m*.le distant. But in their
sworn protest, made directly after the accident, they represented the darkness to have been so extreme at the time of
the collision as to prevent their seeing objects beyond a slight
distance off. The protest, signed and attested by the crew
of the Jerry Fowler, was made at Portland, Maine, on the
arrival at that port of the Morning Light with those men,
within three or four days after the collision; and the representation made by those men at that time of the thickness
and darkness of the weather corresponds essentially with the
evidence of the crew of the Morning Light on the final
hearing.
The District Court held that the evidence showed a case
of inevitable accident between the two vessels; or if there
was, at the time of the collision between the two vessels,
any culpable inattention or misconduct which conduced to
produce the collision, the fault therein was a common one to
both, arising from the obscure state of the weather, the want
of extreme vigilance and precaution in making further signals on board both vessels, or even coming to anchor, and
the uncertainty from that cause, to each vessel, what was the
proper and prudent course for either to pursue in respect to
the other vessel or its own individual navigation. That if
it was imprudent and hazardous with the Morning Light,
having knowledge that the Jerry Fowler was probably
ahead in the direction she was steering, to continue a course
which might have been concurrent in both vessels during
the night, because the darkness had then become so dense
and continuous as to prevent her position being seen by the
vessel astern of her, it was no less faulty in the Jerry Fowler
to put about in that state of darkness, when not impelled to
itepart from her previous course by any necessity of naviga-

D~ec. 1864.]

THE

MORNING LIGHT.

Opinion of the court.

tion, when such evolution might place and leave her in a
helpless condition, in the probable path of the approaching
vessel, until the latter should be so near her before she could
be seen, to disable either one from escaping a collision. That
upon the proofs no necessity was shown for the Jerry Fow]er to make a tack for her own safety, or as an act of prudence or good seamanship, a distance of five or six miles off
the reefs she intended to avoid, and that no higher necessity
was shown for the Morning Light to come to in that state of
the weather than for the Jerry Fowler to have done so also.
That comparing the testimony given by the crew of the
Morning Light with the statement in the protest made
directly after the occurrence by the crew of the Jerry Fowler, the fair weight of evidence was that all hands aboard
each vessel were bewildered and confused by finding themselves in sudden and dangerous proximity to each other in
a thick fog, and that the collision consequent thereto was the
result of accident common and unavoidable to both. That
each party, under the circumstances, was accordingly bound
to bear his own loss. The District Court accordingly dismissed the libel.
On appeal to the Circuit Court, the same view was taken
of the evidence, and the decree was affirmed. It was from
this second decree that the case came here by appeal.
Mr. Benedict, for the appellants; Mr. W. Q. Morton, contra.
Mr. Justice CLI-FFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought here by appeal from a decree of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York, sitting in admiralty.
Appellants were the insurers of the brig Jeremiah Fowler,
which was lost on the 24th day of August, 1855, while on a
voyage from the port of Philadelphia to the port of Boston.
Allegations of the libel are, that she was loaded with coal,
and that after she had arrived in Block Island channel, and
while she was beating in towards Vineyard Sound, she was
negligently and wrongfully run into by the brig "Morning

THE

MORNING LIGHT.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

Light and sunk, and that the vessel, together with the cargo,
became a total loss. Libellants insured the vessel in the sum
of thirteen thousand dollars; and having paid the whole
amount, they instituted this suit against the Morning Light
to recover the value of the vessel, upon the ground that the
vessel of the respondents was in fault, and that the collision
was occasioned by the negligenice and want of proper care
and precaution of those who had the charge and management of her deck at the time the collision occurred. Respondenta allege that the Morning Light was bound on a
voyage from Philadelphia to Portland, and that she was well
manned, tackled, and provided. Collision occurred, as the
respondents allege, about four o'clock in the morning; and
they also allege, that at the time it occurred it was raining
heavily, and that in consequence of a dense fog it was intensely dark.
Parties agree that the collision occurred at the time specified in the answer; and the respondents also allege that the
wind, at the time, was from the eastward, say east by north,
and that their vessel was heading about north by east.
Undoubtedly she was on her starboard tack, closehauled
on the wind, and like the vessel of the libellants was beating into Block Island channel. Such was the state of things
when, as the respondents allege, the lookout on their vessel
first discovered the vessel of the libellants, and the concurrent testimony of those on board their vessel is that the
vessel so discovered appeared to be crossing the bows of the
Morning Light. When the lookout made that discovery he
immediately gave the order to the man at the wheel to put
her heln hard tp; but the allegation is that the two vessels
were so near together that it was not possible to prevent
the collision. Appellants also allege that their vessel had a
competent lookout properly stationed on he deck, and that
the vessel was discovered as soon as it was possible to discern
her in the dense fog with which she was surrounded.
Suit was commenced in the District Court, and after a full
hearing, the district judge entered a decree dismissing the
ihel, upon the ground that the collision was the result of

Dec. 1864.]

THE MORNING LIGHT.
Opinion of the court.

inevitable accident. Appeal was taken by the libellants te
the Circuit Court, and the respective parties were again
heard in that court; and, after full consideration, the decree
of the District Court was in all things affirmed, and upon
the same ground as that assumed in the .District Court.
Whereupon the libellants appealed to this court, andllw
seek to reverse the decree, upon the ground that both the
courts below were in error.
1. Appellants contend, in the first place, that their vessel
was ahead, and that the other vessel, inasmuch aa she, was
coming up, was bound to keep out of the way. Secondly,
they contend that the vessel of the resp.ondenta was also. in
fault, because she did not have a competent lookout properly
stationed on the vessel, Thirdly, that she was also. in fault,
because she did not shorten sail and diminish her headway.
On the other hand, the defence is placed chiefly upon the
ground set up in the answer, that the collision was the result
of inevitable accident; but the respondents also. contend
that the vessel of the libellants was in fault, because she
unnecessarily attempted to go about and change her course
while she was under the bows of the Morning Light.
Beyond question the vessel of the libellants was ahead at
nightfall before the collision occurred, as the evidence shows
that she was seen at that time by the master of the Morning
Light, and he testifies that she was to the windward, and
five or six miles ahead. The evidence also, shows that she
was at that time heading north-northeast, and the witnesses
say that she was apparently sailing faster than the vessel of
the respondents, and that both vessels were sailing on the
same tack. Suggestion of the respondents is, that she had
changed her course during the night, and some time before
the collision, and that she was sailing, at the time it occurred,
on the larboard or port tack; and it must be admitted that
the position of the respective vessels at that time, and the
attending circumstances, give some countenance to that
theory. But the testimony of the witnesses for the libel.
lants is directly the other way, and as there is nothing in
the case of a positive character to contradict their state-

566

THE MORNING LIGHT.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

ments, it must be assumed that they are correct, although it
is very difficult to see how it happened that the two vessels
came together as alleged, unless one of them had changed
her course during the night. Theory of the libellants is that
their vessel had just come about on to the larboard tack, and
that her sails had not filled sufficiently to give her headway,
and the theory is essential to the libellants' case, because
if their vessel was fully under way on that tack, and in a
situation to do so, it would have been her duty to port her
helm and give way. Suffice it to say, however, the proof is
clear that she was not under headway, and perhaps the better
opinion from the evidence is that she had just come about,
as is assumed by the libellants, and not that her sails were
merely aback through the fault of the helmsman, as is assumed by the respondents.
I. Assuming the fact to be so, then it follows that the
vessel of the libellants was not in fault, and the question of
liability must chiefly depend upon the defence set up in the
answer, that the collision was the result of inevitable accident. Examples are to be found in the reported cases where
collisions have occurred exclusively from natural causes, and
without any negligence or fault, either on the part of the
owners of the respective vessels, or of those intrusted with
their care and management, and where the facts are so, the
rule of law is that the loss must rest where it fell, on the
principle that no one is responsible for such an accident.
Such was the ruling of the court in the case of the steamer
Pennsylvania,* and we have no doubt that the ruling was
correct. Ruling of the court in the case of the John Frazert
was to the same effect. Remarks of the court in that case
were, that the mere fact that one vessel strikes and damages
another does not of itself make her liable for the iujury:
but the collision must in some degree be occasioned by her
fault A ship properly secured may, by the violence of a
* Union Steamship Co. v. New York Steamship Co., 24 Howard, 313.

Owners of Brig James Gray v. Owners of Ship John Frazer, 21 How.
%rd,194.

Dec. 1864.]

THr

MORNING LIGHT.

Opinion of the court.

storm, be driven from her moorings and forced against another vessel, in spite of her efforts to avoid it; yet, says the
court, she certainly would not be liable for damages which
it was not in her power to prevent. So, also, ships at sea
may, from storm or darkness of the weather, come in collision with one another without fault on either side; and in
that case, say the court, each must bear its own loss, although
one is muchmore injured than the other. Where negligence
or fault, however, is shown to have been committed by either
party, the rule under consideration can have no application,
for if the fault was one committed by the respondent alone,
then the libellant is entitled to recover; or if by the libellant alone, then the libel must be dismissed; or if both vessels were in fault, then the damages, under the rule applied
in this court, must be apportioned between the offending
vessels.
IT. Before considering the defence, therefore, it becomes
necessary to inquire and determine whether it be true, as is
supposed by the libellants, that the vessel of the respondents
was in fault. Their theory is that their vessel was ahead,
and that the vessel of the respondents was bound to*keep
out of the way. Granting the fact to be as assumed, still
if it was so dark that the vessel ahead could not be seen,
the vessel astern cannot be held to be in fault for not complying with that rule, unless she was improperly in that
position, or was guilty of some negligence or want of care
and precaution.*
Charge of the libellants is, that she had no lookout, and
the charge, under the circumstances, is one that deserves to
be very carefully considered. Proofs are full to the point,
that two of her company, the mate and a seaman, were assigned to that duty; but the question is whether they were
properly stationed on the vessel. Burden of the vessel was
two hundred and sixty-nine tons, and the ship's company
consisted of the master, two mates, the cook, and four men
before the mast. According to the evidence, the vessel was
* The Shannon, 1 W. Robinson, 463.

THE MORNING LIGHT.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

laden with lumber, and her deck load consisted of three tiers
of spars about as high as the bulwarks. She had a good
light in her forestays eight feet above the main deck, and
she had an experienced seaman at the wheel. One lookout
Was stationed oni the larboard side, eight or ten feet forward
of the mainmast; and the mate, who was also on the lookout, was on the starboard side, just forward of the foremast;
and it should be remembered that the vessel was upon the
starboard tack. None of these facts are successfully controverted; but the argument is, that the lookouts were not
properly stationed, and it is not to be denied that, in general,
some position farther forward would be a better one to secure
the object for which lookouts are required.
IV. Reference, however, must in all cases be had to the
circumstances, and especially to the course of the respective
vessels, and to their bearing in respect to each other. Considering the situation of the vessel of the libellants, assuming
it to be such as the libellants suppose, it is by no means certain that the position of the lookout on the larboard side
was not as favorable to discover the vessel of the libellants,
wheu she went into stays and came about as could have been
chosen, and it is quite clear that the position of the mate
while his vessel had her starboard tacks aboard was one
without objection. They both testify that they were attendlng to their duty, and there is no ground for doubt that they
would have seen the other vessel in season to have avoided
the collision, but for the intense darkness of the night.
V. Fault is also imputed to the Morning Light by the
libellants, because she did not during the alleged intense
darkness "lie to," or shorten sail and check her headway.
Steamers navigating in thoroughfares are always required,
whenever the darkness is such that it is impossible or diflicult to see approaching vessels, "to slow" their engines or
even to stop or back, according to the circumstances, and no
reason is perceived why the principle of the rule in that behalf may hot be applied in a qualified sense to sail vessels
where they are navigating in crowded thoroughfares, and
when the darkness is so intense that vessels ahead cannot be

Dec. 1864.]

THE MORNING LIGHT.
Opinion of the court.

seen.* Decisions to that effect may be found5 and no doubt
they are correct, as for example, it was held in the case bf
the Virgil,t that the defence of inevitable accident could not
be maintained where it appeared that the vessel setting it
up was sailing with a strong breeze and under a full press
of canvas and with her studding-sails set, although it appeared that it was very dark and hazy at the time of the
accident.1 But such a restrictioh can hardly be applied to
sail vessels proceeding on their voyage in an open se3a. Oh
the contrary, the general rule is that they inay probeed on
their voyage although it is datk, observing all the ordinary
rules -of navigation, and with such additional care and precaution as experienced and prudent navigators usually employ under similar circunistantes. They should never under
such circumstances hazard an extraordinary press of sail,
and in case of unusual darkness, it may be reasonable to require them when navigating in a narrow pathway, where
they are liable to meet other vessels, to shorten sail if the
wind and weather will permit.
The weight of the eviden'ce in this case shows, that the
wind during the greater portion of the night was perhaps a
five or six knot breeze, out it is highly probable that it was
much lighter during thi fog showers and the period of the
extreme darkness which immediately preceded the collision.
Neither vessel had any studding-sails, nor any greater press of
canvas than is usual in such a voyage, nor is it by any means
certain that.either had any more sail set than was rez ionably
necessary to keep the full control and proper management
of the vessel. They both had competent officers on deck,
good lights in th rigging, and as we think sufficient lookouts, and it appears that neither was guilty of any negligence
or unskilfulness.
Some of the witnesses for the libellants deny that the
night was as dark as is represented by the witnesses examined by the respondehts, but those denials came chiefly
* The Rose, 7 Jurist, 881.

The Virgil, 2 W. Robinson, 202.

t Id. 117t

560

THE MORNING LIGHT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

from those who signed the protest shortly after the disaster,
which in substance and effect confirms the respondents'
witnesses, and filly justifies the finding in that behalf in the
court below. Reasonable doubt cannot be entertained that
it was intensely dark at the time of the collision. Both the
courts below were of that opinion, and we fully concur In
that view of the case, and think it sufficient under the circumstances to express that concurrence without reproducing
the evidence.
VI. Reported cases where it has been held that collisions
occurring in consequence of the darkness of the night, and
without fault on the part of either party, are to be regarded
as inevitable accidents are numerous, and inasmuch as there
is no conflict in the adjudications, it is not thought necessary
to do much more than to refer to some of the leading cases
upon the subject.* Where the loss is occasioned by a storm
or any other vis major, the rule as established in this court
is that each party must bear his own loss, and the same rule
prevails in most other jurisdictions.t Different definitions
are given of what is called an inevitable accident, on account
of the different circumstances attending the collision to
which the rule is to be applied.
Such disasters sometimes occur when the respective vessels are each seen by the other. Under those circumstances,
it is correct to say that inevitable accident, as applied to such
a case, must be understood to mean a collision which occurs
when both parties have endeavored, by every means in their
power, with due care and caution, and a proper display of
nautical skill, to prevent the occurrence of the accidet.1
When applied to a collision, occasioned by the darkness of
the night, perhaps a more general definition is allowable.
Inevitable accident, says Dr. Lushington, in the case of The
Europa,ยง must be considered as a relative term, and must
Stainbach et al. v. Rae et al., 14 Howard, 538.
1 Parsons' Merc. Law, 187; Woodrop Sims, 2 Dodson, 85; The Itinerant, 2 W. Robinson, 243.
t The Locklibo, 3 W. Robinson, 218; The Pennsylvania, 24 Howard, 313
4 2 English Law & Equity, 559.

Dec. 1864.]

GORDON V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

be construed not absolutely but reasonably with regard to
the circumstances of each particular case. Viewed in that
light, inevitable accident may be regarded as an occurrence
which the party charged with the collision could not possibly
prevent by the exercise of ordinary care, caution, and mari-

time skill.* Regarding these cases as sufficient to show that
a. collision resulting from the darkness of the night and
without the fault of either party, is properly to be regarded
as an inevitable accident, we forbear to pursue the investigation, and wish only to add that we have no doubt the case
was correctly decided in the Circuit Court.
The, decree of the Circuit Court is therefore,
AFFIRMED WITH 001Th-

GORDON v. UNITED STATES.
No appeal lies to this court from the Court of Claims.

Go.DoN, administrator of Fisher, presented a petition in
the Court of Claims of the United States, for damages. done
to him by troops of our Government, in the war of 1812 with
Great Britain. The Court of Claims decided against him,
and he appealed to this court. The case was argued in favor
of the night of appeal by Messrs. Gooderichand Winter Davis;
no counsel appearing on the other side. A majority of the
.ourt, however,t finding itself constrained to the conclusion
that,, under the Constitution, no appellate jurisdiction over
the, Court of Claims could be exercised by this court, and
intimating that the reasons which necessitated this view
might be announced hereafter-the term being now at its
close-the cause was simply
DISMISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.
* The Virgil, 1 W. Robinson, 205; The Juliet Ersline, 6 Notes of Cases,
684; The Shannon, 1 W. Robinson, 463; Same Case, 7 Jurist, 880.
t Miller and Field, JJ., dissenting.
VOL

I.

36

