DRURY

v.

FOSTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

DRURY V. FOSTER.
A paper, executed, under seal, for the husband's benefit, by husband and
wife, acknowledged in separate form by the wife, and meant to be a
mortgage of her separate lands, but with blanks left for the insertion
of the mortgagee's name and the sum borrowed, and to be filled up by
the husband, is no deed as respects the wife, when afterwards filled up
by the husband and given to a lender of money, though one bona fid
and without knowledge of the mode of execution. The mortgagee, on
cross-bill to a bill of foreclosure, was directed to cancel her name.
FOSTER, of Minnesota, being about to engage in some enterprise, and wanting money, asked his wife, who owned,
in her separate right, a valuable tract of land in that State,
to mortgage it for his benefit. What exactly was said or
promised did not appear. However, Foster afterwards went
to a notary, who exercised, as it seemed, the business of a
scrivener also, and directed him to draw a mortgage of the
property, with himself and wife as mortgagors, but leaving
the name of the mortgagee, and the sum for which the land was
mortgaged, in blank. This the magistrate did. Foster acknowledged the deed, at the magistrate's office, in this shape,
and the magistrate then took the instrument to Mrs. Foster,
at her husband's house, that she might sign and acknowledge it in the same shape. When the magistrate took the
mortgage to her thus to execute, Mrs. Foster said, "she was
fearful that the speculation which her husband was going
into would not come out right; that she did not like to mortgage
thatplace, but that he wanted to raise a few hundred dollars,
or several hundred dollars, or something to that effect,"-the
magistrate, who was the witness that gave the testimony,
did not recollect the exact expression which she used,-"and that she did not like to refuse him, and that so she consented to sign the mortgage." Mrs. Foster, having signed
the instrument in this blank shape, the notary, under his hand
and seal, certified, in form, that the husband and wife. "the
signers and sealers of the foregoing deed," had personally appeared before him, "and acknowledged the signing and
iealing the-eof to be their voluntary act and deed, for the uses

Dec. 1804.]

DRuRY v. FOSTER.
Argument for the mortgagee.

and purposes expressed;" and that the wife, "being examined' separate and apart from her said husband, and the
contents of the foregoing deed made known to her by me,
she then acknowledged that she executed the same freely,
and without fear or compulsion from any one." Such form
of separate acknowledgment, it may be well to say, is required by statute, in Minnesota, to give any effect to a feme
covert's deed. After taking the wife's acknowledgment, the
notary gave the instrument to her husband. He, finding the
complainant, Drury, willing to lend as much as $12,800 upon
the property, himself filled up the blanks with the name of
Drury, as mortgagee, and with the sum just mentioned as the
amount for which the estate was mortgaged. In this form
the instrument was delivered to Drury, who, knowing nothing of the facts, advanced the money in good faith, and
put his mortgage on record. There was no evidence that
the wife derived any benefit from the money advanced, othat she ever knew that such a large sum was advanced.
On a bill of foreclosure brought four years afterwards by
Drury against Foster and wife, in the Federal Court for Minnesota, the defence was, that the mortgage was not the wife's
deed; a defence which the court below thought good as to
her. It accordingly dismissed the bill as regarded her,
giving a decree, however, against the husband. The correctness of its action as regarded the wife was the question, on
appeal, here.
Mr, _Peckhamfor -Drury,the mortgagee: All will admit that
it is not easy to conceive of a case addressing itself more
to a sense of equity. Drury, without a circumstance to excite suspicion, and relying upon a mortgage regular upon
its face, advanced a large sum in perfect good faith. He
supposed, too, as was natural, that the mortgagors were
acting in equal good faith. Mrs. Foster deliberately, and
with understanding, put it into the power of her husband to
obtain the loan. Will she be permitted, at this late day, in
conjunction with her husband, to disavow her acts, and thus,
in effeet, defraud an innocent third party whom she has been

DRURY

v.

FOSTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the mortgagee.

chiefly instrumental in bringing into his present position ?
Even if Mrs. Foster were entirely innocent in the premises,
and was the victim of the fraud of her husband, yet either
she or the plaintiff must suffer loss in the present case; and
no principle is better settled than that where loss must fall
upon one of two innocent parties, it must be borne by that
one who is most in fault. There is no reason for exempting
the wife from the operation of this rule. On the contrary,
in transactions between the husband and wife and third parties, there is the strongest reason for applying the principle.
It would be against public policy, and expose transactions
relative to real estate to hazard, to allow a married woman
to screen herself from the consequences of her own acts
under the circumstances of the present case. Such a doctrine would subordinate all other interests to those of married women.
Viewed on legal principles, the conclusion is to the same
effect. It is of no pertinence to cite, in this day and this
country, "technical dogmas," as Grier, J., calls them,* out
of Shepherd's Touchstone, or Perkins. These old books
may, indeed, declare, "that if a man seal and deliver an
empty piece of paper or parchment, albeit he do therein
withal give commandment that an obligation or other matter
shall be written in it, and this be done accordingly, yet this
is no good deed."t But such doctrines have been exploded,
even in England, these two hundred years. Certainly the
contrary, as respected a bond, was adjudged in Zouch v.
Claye, 23 and 24 Charles 11, in the days of Norman French
and of black-letter law. Levinz thus reports the case:J
"1Det sur obligation. Le case fuit tiel. A. and B. seal and deliver le bond a C., et puis per le consent do touts les parties le
nom et addition de D. fuit interline, et il auxy seal l'obligation et
ceo deliver. Et si l'obligation per cest alteration fait faet void
vers A. and B. fuit le question. Et per Hale et totam curiam ad.
judge que nemy."
Co. v. Hacket, 1 Wallace, 85.
Shepherd's Touchstone, 54; Perkins,
: 2 Levinz, 35.
*Mercer

111; Co. Lit. 171.

De.c. 1864.]

DRURY V. FOSTER.
Argument for the mortgagee.

"Debt on bond. The case was this. A. and B. seal and deliver a bond to 0. i and then, with the consent of all parties, the
name and addition of D. was interlined; and he also sealed the
bond and delivered it. The question was whether, owing to this
alteration, the bond was void as respected A. and B. And by
Hale, and the whole court adjudged that it was not."
Texira v. Evans, cited in 3faster v. Miller, and reported by
Anstruther,* A.D. 1793 (Lord Mansfield's time), did but
affirm this old adjudication. There, Evans wanted to borrow
£400, or so much of it as his credit should be able to raise.
For this purpose he executed a bond, with blanks for the
name and sum, and sent an agent to raise money on th4
bond. Texira lent £200 on it, and the agent accordingly
filled up the blanks with the sum and Texira's name, and
delivered the bond to him. On non estfactum pleaded, Lord
Mansfield held it a good deed.
The principle was early enunciated in America. Chief
Justice Parsons, in delivering the judgment in Smith v.
Urooker,t where a bond had been executed by a surety before
his name had been inserted in the body of the instrument,
and his name being afterwards inserted therein in his
absence, holding the instrument valid, remarks: "The
party executing the bond, knowing that there are blanks in
it to be filled up by inserting particular names or things,
must be considered as agreeing that the blanks may be thus
filled after he has executed the bond." Ex parte Kerwin is
a later case, one in New York. It was there held, that an
appeal bond drawn in blank as to the recital of the judgment, and executed by the appellant and his surety, the
former giving parol authority to his surety to ascertain from
the justice the amount of the judgment, and fill up the blank
accordingly, and deliver the bond for both, and which was
done, was a good bond. This is similar to the case at bar,
in the respect that the agent for the insertion of the blanks
and delivery of the instrument was one of the co-obligors.
*Vol.

1, p. 228

V 5 Massachusetts, 539.

1:8 Cowen, 118.

DRURY D. FOSTER.

L8.1p. CL

Argument for the mortgagee.

Many other American cases are to the same point.* This
relaxation of ancient technicality is universal in our new
Western States. There people deal with lands as they do
with oxen; and pass a fee simple to a hundred acres with
as much facility as they do the title to a plough or a cart.t
We assert, and the cases just cited prove, that a paper under
seal, executed with blanks, becomes, when those blanks are
filled up, and the instrument is afterwards delivered, the
party's deed. And it is difficult to see why a contrary vipw
should be entertained. Parol authority is confessedly sufficient for the mere delivery of a deed. But delivery is the
act of acts. It is the act by which each and all of the other
acts necessary to the execution of the deed become operative
and effectual. By it the signing, the sealing, and the acknowledgment take effect. If, therefore, delivery can be
made under parol authority, why may not blanks be filled
in, and alterations and interlineations made in deeds before
their delivery by like authority? Neither of these things
constitute the execution of a deed, but are merely acts necessary to be performed in the execution thereof; acts consummating and giving effect to the execution.
The fact that the party making this deed was afeme covert
is unimportant. What an ordinary person may do without
examination, afeme covert may do when separately examined.
If an ordinary person, without examination, may execute a
deed with blanks, afeme covert may execute a similar deed,
provided she be separately examined, know fully what she
does, and it be plain that it was such a deed she wished and
meant to execute. Why not? Certainly she could convey
her whole estate, if it were conveyed by deed, whose blanks
were filled. Why may she not convey a portion whose extent remains undefined, if she has wished and meant so to
do? Her real wishes, her perfect knowledge of what she is
* Sigfried v. Levan, 6 Sergeant & Rawle, 808; Wiley v. Moore, 17 id.
439; Ex arle Decker, 6 Cowen, 59; Anaerson v. Lewis, 1 Freeman's (Mississippi) Chancery, 178.
t" See what is said by Miller, .T., post, Miles v. Caldwell.

Dec. 1864.J

DRURY v. FOSTER.
Argument for the mortgagee;

doing, her entire freedom from the husband'&s coercion and
compulsion, these are the pQints to which the law looks; and
these being settled, her capacity is as great as if dis-covert.
In this case, when separate and apart from her husband,
Mrs. Foster gave her voluntary consent to a sealed instruthat same manner, she authorized these
ment, with blanks; -in
blanks to be filled at the discretion of her husband, to whom
she knew it would be ha4ed over.
But even if not her deed, Mrs. Foster is estopped from
asserting that she did no-,xecute the mortgage. The
mortgage in question was -Aly signed, sealed, acknowledged, and certified to, with :the .name of the grantee and
the amount of the mortgage debt in blank, and was, when
so signed, sealed, and acknowledged, well known to both
grantors to contain these blanks. The conclusion, therefore, is, that the blanks were designedly left by both grantors
to facilitate the negotiation of the loan, which was the
avowed object of the execution of the mortgage, well known
to and understood by Mrs. Foster, as appears by her own
declarations made to the notary public at the time, and because the amount and terms of the loan which her husband
might succeed in effecting, and the party of whom he might
make it, were at the time unknown to either grantor. The
mortgage having been thus deliberately, and with understanding, executed in such form and for such purposes by both
parties, was, with the full knowledge and deliberate consideration of Mrs. Foster, delivered by her to the notary, to be
by him delivered to the other grantor, her husband, which
was accordingly done; and this mortgage, with all the
blanks filled in, and in all respects perfect, was delivered by
Foster to Drury, the complainant. The doctrine of estoppel
in pais, thus laid down by Lord Denman,* applies to such a
case: "The rule of law is clear, that where one, by his
words or conduct, wilfully causes another to believe the existence of a certain state of things, and induces him to act
on that belief, so as to alter his own brevious position, the
* Packard v. Sears, 6 Adolphus

& Ellis, 469.

DRURY v. FOSTER.

[Sup. C

Argument for the wife.

former is concluded from averring against the latter a differ
ent state of things as existing at the same time."
There is yet another ground why this decree, as respects
the wife, should be reversed. Evidence was introduced '-y
Mrs. Foster, for the purpose of showing that, at the time of
the signing, sealing, and acknowledgment of the mortgage,
there were blanks in it; and this evidence was introduced
upon the theory that, there being such blanks at such time
in the mortgage, this deed was no deed, at least so far as defendant, Mrs. Foster, was concerned. This evidence tended
to contradict, and was introduced for the purpose of contradicting, the certificate of acknowledgment, and showing the
same to be false; whereas, on the highest ground of public
policy, such certificates are held to be conclusive evidence -f
the matters they contain, and they can neither be aided nor
disproved by parol testimony, except, perhaps, in cases of
fraud or imposition. In Jordanv. Jordan,* Tilghman, C. J.,
recognizing this principle, said: "There would be no certainty to titles if that kind of evidence were permitted. The
law directs the magistrate to make his certificate in writing,
and he has made it. To that the world is to look, and to
nothing else." The case of Jamison v. Jamison,t subsequently decided by the same court, is nearly parallel to the
one at bar. It was the case of a mortgage executed by
husband and wife, of the separate estate of the wife to secure
the debt of the husband; and in which there was an offer to
prove, by the testimony of the justice of the peace before
whom the acknowledgment was taken, that his certificate
thereof was false. The court held that the certificate of the
judge or justice to the acknowledgment of a deed by a married woman, is to be judged of solely by what appears on
the face of the certificate itself; and that parol evidence of
what passed at the time of the acknowledgment is not admissible for the purpose of contradicting the certificate.
Mr. Carlisle, contra: Whatever interest the husband had,
passed, we concede, by the decree. What we assert is, that
*9 Sergeant & Rawle, 268.

t 3 Wharton, 468.

Dec. 1864.]

DRtURY V. FOSTER.
Argument for the wife.

Mrs. Fos..r's estate in the land was never conveyed. She
never executed any deed in the premises. She signed, sealed,
and acknowledged, but never delivered, a blank form of a
deed of mortgage, containing no name of the grantee, or
mortgagee, no statement or recital of the sum of money to
be secured, or the time of payment; or, in short, of any of
the matters indispensable to make the deed operative, except
the names of the grantors and the description of the property. It was an instrument which conveyed nothing, because there was no grantee. It was an unfinished mortgage
in form; but it was no mortgage at all, because there was
no mortgagee and no debt, recited, described, or in any
manner indicated. It consists, in natural reason, as well
with Mrs. Foster's declaration at the time she signed it, that
it was intended to be a security for "Ca few hundred dollars,"
as with the complainant's claim for $12,785; and it might as
well have turned out a mortgage for a million of dollars.
And because it was thus absolutely wanting in certainty,
and might be anything, or nothing, when it was signed and
acknowledged by Mrs. Foster, it was not, and could not become, her deed in law.
To say that Mrs. Foster is estopped from denying that she
executed the mortgage, because she signed, sealed, and executed it, is a petitio principii, simply.
The fact that Mrs. Foster was a married woman does make
a potential element of the case. Observe the statement of
the case! "She was fearful that the speculation which her
husband was going into would not come out right: she did
not like to mortgage that place;" her paternal property, perhaps, the home of her own childhood. "But he"-her husband-wanted to raise money, andI"she did not lice to refuse
him, and so she consented to sign." The case is an affecting
illustration of the extent to which a woman becomes, in
marriage, "subdued to the very quality of her lord." Her
woman's fears had foreseen what her husband's intelligence
never suspected; but like a woman, lovely and confiding,
she yielded everything to him. This co'urt will surely remember the language of Marshall, 0. J., in Sexton v. Wher-

DRUiRY v. FOSTER.

[ up. Ut.

Argument for the wife.

ton:* "All know and feel the sacredness of the connection
between hv.sband and wife. All know that the sweetness
of social intercourse, the harmony of society, the happiness
of families, depend upon that mutual partiality which they
feel, or that delicate forbearance which they manifest towards
each other." Does any one doubt, if this magistrate-the
great offender in the case-had done the duty which the
laws of the State from which he derived his commission put
upon him; that is to say, had refused to take any acknowledgment till the blanks in the deed were filled with $12,800,
and its contents, in fact and in truth and spirit made known
to the lady-that however Mrs. Drury might have "so consented," not "liking to refuse him," the magistrate could never
have certified that she executed it "freely." This separate
examination, if faithfully made-this certificate, itself a certificate of quasijudicial approbation to what she does-if conscientiously given; given, as with the body of our higher
magistracy we may hope that it only is given; is the protectionwith which the lawhedges the gentle nature ofawomanher crowning grace and glory-from the dangers, and perhaps
the ruin, which, without the law's protection, it is certain in
many cases to bring upon her. The argument which treats
her as an independent person, and would approximate her
actions to those of our own sex-which would say that allthat
a man may do without examination, she may do ifexamined
-violates the central germ of truth upon the subject, the
law of the inherent moral differences of our natures; the true
and fine conception of the case, which gives to characters,
thoughts, passions, sentiments, and all things within, their
sex. A certificate in blank is an absurdity, as respects a
married woman, if we look to the wise reasons of the law.
By law, such a woman has no power to convey her estate at
all. The law gives it to her on condition that she be examined separately, and consent fully and freely to the exact
thing which she does. The certificate must have been in fact,
and when made a true certificate; and everything certified
*8

Wheaton, 229; 1 American Leading Cases, 42.

Dec. 1864.]

D4ury v.

FOSTER.

Opinion of the court.

to have been done by the feme covert must have been exactly
and specifically done.
It is objected that the parol proof tends to contradict the
official certificate of acknowledgment, and cases are cited in
support of this objection. But they have no application.
Here is no attempt to aid a defective certificate of acknowledgment, as in some of the cases cited. Nor is it an attack,
by parol proof, upon a perfect certificate. It is simply proof
of what the instrument was which was so acknowledged and
certified; that it was not then the instrument which is produced by the complainant.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
By the laws of Minnesota, an acknowledgment of the
execution of a deed before the proper officers, privately and
apart from her husband, by a feme covert, is an essential prerequisite to the conveyance of her real estate or any interest
therein. And she is disabled from executing or acknowledging a deed by procuration, as she cannot make a power
of attorney. These disabilities exist by statute and the comnon law for her protection, in consideration of her dependent condition, and to guard her against undue influence
and restraint.
Now, it is conceded, in this case, that the instrvment Mrs.
Foster signed and acknowledged was not a deed or mortgage; that, on the contrary, it was a blank paper; and that
in order to make it available as a deed or mortgage, it must
be taken to have been signed and acknowledged with the
design to have the blanks filled by the husband, or some
other person, before the delivery. We agree-if she was
competent to convey her real estate by signing and acknowledging the deed in blank, and delivering the same to an
agent, with an express' or implied authority to fill up the
blank and perfect the conveyance-that its validity could
not well be controverted. Although it was, at one time
doubted whether a parol authority was adequate to authorize
an alteration or addition to a sealed instruir ent, the better
opinion, at this day, is that the power is sufficient.
VOL. 11.

DRUity v.

FOSTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

But there are two insuperable objections to this view in
the present case. First, Mrs. Foster was disabled in law
from delegating a person, either in writing or by parol, to
fill up the blanks and deliver the mortgage; and, second,
there could be no acknowledgment of the deed within the
requisitions of the statute until the blanks were filled and
the instrument complete. Till then there was no deed to
be acknowledged. The act of the feme covert and of the
officers were nullities, and the form of acknowledgment
annexed as much waste paper as the blank mortgage itself,
at the time of signing.
It is insisted, however, that Mrs. Foster should be estopped
from denying that she had signed and acknowledged the
mortgage. The answer to this is, that to permit an estoppel
to operate against her would be a virtual repeal of the statute
that extends to her this protection, and also a denial of the
disability of the common law that forbids the conveyance
of her real estate by procuration. It would introduce into
the law an entirely new system of conveyances of the real
property of feme coverts. Instead of the transaction being a
real one in conformity with established law, conveyances, by
signing and acknowledging blank sheets of paper, would be
the only formalities requisite. The consequences of such a
system are apparent, and need not be stated.
There is authority for saying, that where a perfect deed
has been signed and acknowledged before the proper officer,
an inquiry into the examination of thefeme covert, embracing
the requisites of the statute, as constituting the acknowledgment, with a view to contradict the writing, is inadmissible;
that acts of the officer for this purpose are judicial and
conclusive. We express no opinion upon the soundness of
this doctrine, as it is not material in this case. The case
before us is very different. There is no defect in the form
of the acknowledgment, or in the private examination.
No inquiry is here made into them. The defect is in the
deed, which it is not made the duty of this officer to write,
fill up, or examine, and for the legal validity of which he is
no way responsible. The two instruments are distinct. The

Dec. 1864.]

MILES V. CALDWELL.
Opinion of the court.

deed may be filled up without any official authority, and may
be good or bad. The acknowledgment requires such authority. The difficulty here is not in the form of the acknowledgment, but that it applied to a nonentity, and was, therefore, nugatory. The truth is, that the acknowledgment in
this case might as well have been taken and made on a
separate piece of paper, and at some subsequent period attached by the officer, or some other person, to a deed that
had never been before the feme covert. The argument in
support of its validity would be equally strong.
Our opinion is that, as it respects Mrs. Foster, the mortgage is not binding on her estate.
We may regret the misfortune of the complainant from
the conclusion at which we have arrived; but it seems to us
impossible to extend the relief prayed for by the bill of foreclosure, without abrogating the protection which the law for
ages has thrown around the estates of married women.
Losses of the kind may be guarded against, on the part of
dealers in real estate, by care and caution; and we think
that this burden should be imposed on them, rather than
that a sacrifice Should be made of the rights of a class who
are dependent enough in the business affairs of life, even
when all the privileges with which the law surrounds them
DECREE AFFIRMED.
are left unimpaired.
-N.B. A decree made below, on a cross-bill ordering the mortgagee to cancel the wife's name on the mortgage, was affirmed
here. The coss-bill set up, substantially, the facts disclosed in
the answer to the original bill; and the proofs taken in each
case were the same.
MILES v. OALDWELL.
1. The established rule, that where a matter has been once heard and determined in one court (as of law), it cannot be raised anew and reheard
in another (as of equity), is not confined to cases where the matter is
made patent in the pleadings themselves. Where the form of issue in

the trial, relied on as estoppel, is so vague (as it may be in an action of
ejectment), that ii does uot ihow I.recisely what questions were before

