THE SUTTER CASE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

THE SUTTER CASE.
1. On the 18th of June, 1841, Juan B. Alvarado, then Governor of Call
fornia, issued to John A. Sutter, for himself and colonists, a grant
of land designated as New Helvetia, of the extent of eleven square
leagues, as exhibited on the map annexed to the petition for the grant,
IIwithout including the lands overflown by the swellings and currents of the
rivers," and bounded as follows: on the north, by Los Tres Picos (The
Three Summits), and 390 41' 45"/ north latitude; on the cast, by tie
borders [or margins] of the Rio de las Plumas (Feather River); on the
south by the parallel of 380 49' 32" of north latitude; and on the west
by the river Sacramento. This grant was adjudged valid and confirmed, and a survey of the eleven leagues was made by a deputy surveyor under instructions of the Surveyor-General of California, locating the land in two parcels,-one of two leagues, and the other of nine
leagues,--separated from each other several miles, and the latter parcel
embracing land situated on each side of the Feather River; the location,
in both of these particulars, conforming to a survey made previously to
the petition of Sutter for the grant. Each parcel was located in a compact form, and in conformity to the lines of the public survey. The
District Court, under the act of June 14th, 1860, set this survey aside,
and, by its direction, a new survey was made, locating the eleven
leagues in thirteen tracts of different dimensions and forms, some of
which were separated from each other. In directing the location in
this manner, the District Court intended that the several selections,
which the grantee himself was considered to have made by settlement,
or by lease, or sale, or other acts of ownership, should be adopted, and
in the order in which they were made, until the whole quantity of the
eleven leagues was exhausted. On appeal, this court "fully appreciating
the difficulties and embarrassments that surrounded the case," set aside
this latter survey, and directed the District Court to confirm the first
survey as the more correct location of the grant.
2. By the terms in the grant "lands overflown by the swelling and currents
of the rivers," were meant tule or swamp lands.
3. Semble, that in locating land in'California, claimed under confirmed
Mexican grants, compactness of form and conformity to the lines of
the public surveys must be preserved, to the exclusion, if necessary, of
selections of the grantee as indicated by his settlement, or by his sale
or lease of parcels of the property.
4. Semble, also, that land claimed under a confirmed Mexican grant may
be located in two parcels, where, from the character of the country,
the entire quantity granted cannot be located in one tract.

THIS case, which involved immense interests in California,
and questions greatly agitated in a particular portion of that

Dec. 1864.]

THE SUTTER CASE.
Statement of the case.

State, was an appeal from the decree of the District Court
of the United States for the Northern District of the same,
approving and confirming the survey and location of a claim
to land under a Mexican grant to a certain John A. Sutter;
a name abundantly known in the valley of the Sacramento,
and which has left traces of some depth in the history of
land titles in that region.
Sutter himself, as described by another pen,* was a native
of Switzerland, who came to the Department of California
about the year 1889; long, of course, before the incorporation of that region with the United States. He was a man
of a romantic cast of character, and having naturalized himself as a citizen of Mexico, formed, with the leave of its
Government, a settlement near the junction of the Sacramento and American Rivers. In honor of his native country
he designated it New Helvetia. The country, at that time,
was uninhabited, except by bands of warlike Indians, who
made frequent predatory incursions upon the undefended
settlements to the south and east of this place. In two or
three years after his arrival, Sutter was commissioned by the
Governor of California to guard the northern frontier, and
to represent the Government in afording security and protection to its inhabitants against the invasion of the Indians
and marauding bands of hunters and trappers who occasionally visited the valley for plunder. In the year 1841 he
commenced the erection of a fort at New Helvetia at his
own expense.t It was surrounded by a high wall, and was
defended by cannon. Within this fort there were dwelling-houses for his servants and workmen, and workshops
for the manufacture of various articles of necessity. There
was a grist-mill, tannery, and distillery attached to the establishment. A number of Indians were domesticated by
him, and contributed to cultivate his fields of grain, and to
lefend the settlement from more savage tribes. He was
possessed of several thousands of horses and neat cattle,
* Campbell, J., of this court.
+ Designated )n the map facing p. 564, as "Establa de Nueva Helvetia"

Tim SUTTER CASE.

[Sup. Ot

Statement of the case.

which were under the care of his servants. There were
collected, at different times, from twenty to fifty families;
and there were, in the course of years, some hundreds of
persons connected with this settlement. He is described, as
having been hospitable and generous to strangers, and the
Governors of California bear testimony to the vigor with
which he performed the duties of his civil and military commission. Being a man of schemes, and of an adventurous
turn, he sought, after a certain time, to extend his settlements and influence upward along the river; and did so,
examining and fixing upon lands for miles up the Rio de las
Plumas, a large tributary of the Sacramento. His ideas and
acts were somewhat visionary; his habits of business not
good; and, relying on titles possessed or to be obtained and
confirmed from the Government, he made very numerous
grants to great numbers of persons; grants of vastly more
land, as it turned out, than he owned. When, therefore,
after the cession of California, our Government acknowledged his right, under Mexican grant, to a certainquantity of
land,-the exact location of which remained to be practically
fixed,-the fact that he had made deeds for much more than
the quantity admitted as his, raised a great question among
his various grantees as to where, exactly, his admitted land
was situated. Each wished that which Sutter had granted
to him to come within the limits, and the Government also
had its interests in the location.
The matter, as in mode and form it now came before this
court, was thus:
In 1852, Suter presented to the Board of Commissioners,
created by Congress under the act of March 3d, 1851, to ascertain and settle private land claims in California, a petition asking for the confirmation of a claim asserted by him
to eleven square leagues of land under a grant alleged to have
been issued to him on the 18th of June, 1841, by Juan B.
Alvarado, then Governor of the Department of California,
The grant gave the extent and boundaries of the land thus:
•' It is of the extent of eleven square leagues, as exlibited in

Dec. 1864.]

THE

SUTTER CASE.

Statement of the case.

the sketch annexed to the expediente, without including the
lands overflowed (las tierras senigadas) by the swelling and current of the rivers. It is bounded on the north by The Three
Summits (Los Tres .Picos) and 391 41' 45" north latitude; on the
east, by the borders [or margins] of the Feather River; on the
south, by the parallel of 38 49, 32" of north latitude; and on
the west, by the river Sacramento."*
In 1853 he amended his petition, and claimed an additional quantity of twewty-two leagues under a grant alleged
to have been issued to him and to his sou on the 5th of February, 1845, by Micheltorena, at that time Governor of
California; this quantity being the surplus (sobrante) embraced within the exterior limits from which the eleven
leagues first granted were to be taken.
The board by its decree confirmed the claim under both
grants. On appeal to the District Court of the United States,
the decree of the board was affirmed. But on appeal to this
court,t the claim under the first grant alone was adjudged
valid, it being held that the second grant, from the circumstances under which itwas issued, was not entitled to recognition by the United States under the treaty of cession.
The decrees of the Board of Commissioners and of the
District Court are substantially in the same language. In
the description of the land they are identical. The description is as follows:
"The land of which confirmation is made is situated on the
American, Sacramento, and Feather iRivers,T and is known by
the name of New Eelvetia, being the same -which was granted
to-the said John A. Sutter, by grant duly executed by Governor
Juan B. Alvarado, on the 18th of June, 1841, and by a grant from
* See map "B. P. L.," supra, facing page 564.

t United States v. Sutter, 21 Howard, 170.
These are the rivers designated, on the map facing page 564, as Rio de
los Americanos, Rio del Sacramento, and Rio de las :Plumas. On this map
no name is given to the river after the junction of the parts marked as Ric
del Sacramento and Rio de las Plumas. It is continued, however, in fact,
und.r the name of the Sacramento.

THi"

SUTTER CASE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

Governor Manuel Micheltorena to the said John A. Sutter, and
his son. John A. Sutter, Jr., dated February 5th, 1845; the first
for eleven square leagues of land, as exhibited on the sketch
annexed to the proceeding , and the second for twenty-two
square leagues of the sobrante, or surplus of land within his
rancho, named New Helvetia, as laid down on the map which
accompanies the grant; the said land to be located according to
the calls of the respective grants, as described and explained in
the depositions of John J. Vioget, filed in the case, and within
the following limits, to wit: On the south, by a line drawn due
east from the Sacramento River, so as to touch the most southerly point of a pond or laguna situated near said river, and
about five miles south of the American River, as represented on
the map filed in the case, and marked ' B. P. L.' (facing page
564), exhibit to deposition of Juan B. Alvarado, March 15th, 1855,
which is also marked on said map Lindero latitudnorte 88' 49' 8";
on the north by a line drawn due east from Sacramento River to
the southern base of the mountains known as the Buttes, and
represented on the said map by the name of Los Tres Picos; and
from thence until it intersects the eastern boundary of the tract,
as represented on said map, and described in the grant, and in
the depositions of the said Vioget; on the west by the said river
Sacramento, and on the east by the margins of Feather River,
inclusive. For more particular description, reference to be had
to the copies of the grants filed and proved in the case, bearing
date the 18th of June, 1841, and the 5th of Februaay, 1845, to
the said map marked ' B. P. L.,' exhibit to deposition of Juan B.
Alvarado, March 15th, 1855, and to the deposition of John J.
Vioget and Juan B. Alvarado, all of which are filed among the
papers in the case."
The mandate of this court, which, on its decision, was remitted to the District Court, to be there executed, recites the
decree appealed from entire, and, after mentioning the argument of the case, proceeds as follows:
"On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged,
and decreed by this court, that so much of the decree of the said
District Court as confirms the claim of John A. Sutter to the
eeven square leagues of land situated on the American, Sacraiento, and Feather R'vers, known by the name of New IHelvetia,

Dec. 1864.]

THE SUTTER CASE.
Statement of the case.

and which was granted to the said John A. Sutter by Governor
J an B. Alvarado, on the 18th of June, 1841, as set forth and
described in said decree, be, and the same is hereby affirmed.
And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court,
that the residue of the said decree, in so far as it confirms a grant
for twenty-two square leagues of land, purporting to have been
made to the said John A. Sutter by Governor Manuel Micheltorena, on the 5th of February, 1845, be, and the same is hereby
reversed and annulled; and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby remanded to the said District Court, for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this
court."

Under this mandate a survey was made, in 1859, by one
A. W. Von Schmidt, deputy surveyor, under J. W. Mandeville, the Surveyor-General of the United States for California.
The survey was made under the instructions of the SurveyorGeneral, and was approved by him on the 18th of February,
1860, and a certified copy was filed in the District Court,
on the 27th of the same month, under the order of the court.
This survey includes two leagues of land, situated south of
the American River (within the present county of Sacramento), and nine leagues, situated on the banks of Feather
Jiver, portions on each side commencing at a place formerly
known as the Canadian Ford, and extending up the river.*
The two parcels were separatedfrom each other several miles.
Each parcel was located in a compact form, and in conformity with the lines of the public surveys. The location will
appear by reference to the map on the next page, where it
is indicated with sufficient correctness to give an idea, by
the light dotted lines forming the top of the map, as to one
part, and on the south of the American River, as distinguished from heavier dark ones in those same parts of the
map, and all along the river between.
John J. Vioget, whose name is mentioned in the decree
of the Distzict Court, was an engineer and surveyor, and
* This "Canadian Ford" is marked on the map facing page 664 by a
small bar 9 -ross the river.

568

THE SUTTER CASE.

[Sup. 0t,

Statement of the case.

made a survey of the eleven square leagues in 1840 or 1841,
and also the map referred to in the grant to Sutter; and in

Dec. 1864.J

TiE SUTTER CASE.
Statement of the case.

his depositions filedinthe case he'testified that in This survey
two leagues were located, at the request of Sutter, south of the
American Piver,.and that the 'remaining nine leagues ,were
located on the 'banks of -the Feather River, on ieach side,
commencing at the Canadian Ford and extending up the
river. Von Schmidt testified that in making his survey he
had with him the map referred to,,and the depositions of
Vioget; also another -map marked "A. P. IL.," which,,except that it has not the dotted lines marked in the latter, is
similarto the map facing page,564, andmarked "13.P. L.;"
and that he found no difficulty inlocating two leagues 'below
the American River, and nine on the margins of the Feather
River; and that he ran the lines so as to conform as near
aspracticable to Vioget's survey. The two surveys varied
somewhat, as Von 'Schmidt was obliged to run the lines in
accordance with the subdivision lines of the public 'surveys
presented by the established regulations of the land department of the Government.
This survey and location of Von Schmidt, the District
Court set aside, and under its direction a new survey and
location were made, and on the 11th of May, 1863, was tapproved by the Surveyor-General of California, and a plot of
the same, duly certified, was returned into court. On the
•same day the District 'Court, by its decree, approved and
confirmed -the new survey and location, marking it, "&pproved, May 11, 1863; Ogden Eloffman, District Judge;"
and from the decree -the present appeal is taken.
By this new survey, the eleven leagues were located in-a
long line of tracts, several of them very narrow, all along the
Feather -River, above its junction with theSacramento, andon th
Sacramento afterwardsto -where it meets the American-River,
with a large tract, as before, south of the last-named stream.
This 'broke up the eleven leagues into thirteen ,tracts of
different dimensions and forms; but the cessation of 'the
continuity was nowhere large. The matterwill be explained,
perhaps, by reference to the map opposite, where this location is indicated by a heavy continuous line all along the
Sovtramento aud Feather Rivers, and south of the American

THE SUTTER CASE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the ease.

River, as distinguished from the lighter dotted one on the
same map, at its top and bottom only.
Sutter, as already mentioned, was a man of undefined
ideas, with habits of business not the best. And having
made grants of much more land than he had, it was plain
that whatever decision was made as to their respective
precedence, many persons would be losers, under circumstances of much hardship as respected some of them. The
District Court, in directing a location in the manner just
mentioned, intended that the several selections which Sutter himself was considered to have made by settlement,
or by lease or sale, or other acts of ownership, should be
adopted, and in the order in which they were made, until
the whole quantity of eleven leagues was exhausted. His
Honor, the District Judge, hoWever, after a very able exposition of the grounds of the decree, acknowledged the difficulties of a "most embarrassing case." "With no clear rules
of law to guide me, unable to discern accurately what even
equity and justice demanded, embarrassed by the careless
improvidence which has led Sutter to convey away more
land than he even supposed he possessed, and far more than
the quantity to which by the unexpected decision of the
Supreme Court, he has been restricted, with the external
boundlies of the tract vague and undefined, and even the
original papers, in some respects, ambiguous and contradictory, I have been compelled," he said, "to content myself
with endeavoring to settle the case as fairly as was practicable, under the circumstances, and to renounce the hope of
obviating every objection, or avoiding the infliction of much
hardship. The case is one rather for the ' arbitrium boni vir'
than the subject of a judicial determination proceeding upon
fixed and absolute rules."
Numerous objections were taken in the court below, and
were urged in this court, to the survey thus ordered by purchasers under Sutter, and by persons claiming rights by
settlement under the United States. The objections were
not all consistent with each other. One of the intervenorL
,Gelston), contended that a greater quantity than the amouni

Dec. 1864.]

THE

SUTTER OASE.

Statement of the case.

given, two leagues or more, should have been located sout
of the American River.
The United States not objecting to the location south of
the American River, contended that the eleven leagues
could not be located in separate and distinct parcels, but
should be located in one body, and in a compact form, and,
therefore, that the nine leagues should be taken immediately
adjoining the other two, and on the north of the American
River, or that the two leagues should be selected from land
adjoining the nine on Feather River.
The parties claiming an interest in the premises by settlement under the United States, contended that the whole
quantity granted should be located between the Sacramento
and Feather Rivers, that is to say, in the forks of these
rivers, below the Three Buttes, and that the land upon which
the city of Sacramento is situated should be excluded from
location as overflowed land, reserved by the terms of the grant.
Two intervenors (Packard and Woodruff) contended that
the survey made by A. W. Von Schmidt, and filed February
27th, 1860, was the correct survey of the eleven leagues.
A vast variety of testimony was taken in the case, and
numerous documents of different kinds, including grants
by Sutter, up and down the rivers and elsewhere, were
offered in evidence,-the whole bearing more or less directly upon the matters in controversy. The printed record
contained nine hundred and eighty octavo pages, and there
were maps! in number indefinite. It is sufficient for the
proper understanding of the opinion of the court to state,
generally, that the evidence showed,-the settlement and
occupation by Sutter of the land below the American River,
as already stated above; the settlement of colonists under
Sutter, soon after he obtained his grant on the east bank of
the Feather River (or as was asserted and contended in the
argument, before); a subsequent selection and occupation by
him of the tract known as Hock Farm, on the west bank of
the FeatherRiver ;* that the whole country embraced within
* The place marked "Rancheria de Hock," on the map B. P. L., faciDg
p. 564; a]ho, the tract "Hock," on map at p. 568.

THE SUTTER OASE.

[Sup.

Ot,

Statement of the case.

the exterior limits of the grant, with the exception of small
portions, insufficient to satisfy the eleven 'leagues granted,
is sometimes, every two or three years, overflowed by water,
and in many places to the depth of several feet; that the
greater part of the tract -embraced in the survey made by
Von Schmidt, and also in the survey approved by the District 'Court, is thus sometimes overflowed; that within the
exterior limits there are also immense tracts of marsh or
tule lands, which are covered with -ater every year during
the entire winter, and during the greater part of the summer
months, and which were unfit for either cultivation or .pasturage without draining; and that neither of the surveys
mentioned include any portion of those lmarsh or tule'lands.
This grant gives the extent and -boundaries of the land,
as already mentioned, that is to say, as .follows:
"It is of the extent of eleven square leagues, as exhibited in
the sketch annexed to the expediente, without including the
lands overflowed (las tierrasseigadas)by the swelling and current of the rivers. It is bounded on the north by (los Tres
Picos) the Three Summits, and 39' 41' 45" north latitude; on the
east by the borders (or margins) of the Feather River; on the
south by the parallel of 380 49' 32" of north latitude, and on the
west by the river Sacramento."

Alvarado, the ,governor, who issued the grant, testified
that the Spanish words, "las tierrasseniqadas" in the original,
which are translated " the lands overflowed" in the document
in the record, mean swamp or tule lands overflown and unfit for

cultivation.
The parallel of latitude (lindero latiiud),given in the grant
as the southern -boundary, falls near the ,junction -of the
Sacramento and Feather Rivers, ,as appears by the map.
Alvarado testified that he inserted in the grant the degrees
of latitude as they were marked on the map. And Vioget
testified that :he drew the line across the map a tfew miles
below the American River, and marked it as Ithe southern
boundary with the latitude designated; but that the obserYation taken of the latitude was not correct, owing to his

Dec. 1864.]

THE SUTTER CASE.
Argument for a compact survey.

inability to procure correct instruments, which he men.
ioned at the time, to Sutter.
Of very numerous documents offered in evidence, aside
from the petition of Sutter and grant to him, and deeds to
numerous under claimants, in nearly every place now the
subject of claim, a grant to W. A. Leidesdorf, issued October
8th, 1844, a deed of Sutter to Robinson, Gillespie, and others,
dated July 1st, 1850, and'a map, made by John Bidwell', in.
1844, were, perhaps, among the most important.
The grant to Leidesdorf, made more than three years after
the date of the grant to Sutter, cedes land situated' on the
south bank of the American River, and describes it as
boi;rxded by the land'granted'tothe colony of Senor Sutter."*
The deed of Sutter to Robinson, Gillespie, and, others,
conveys land described as follows:
"Commencing on- the. north, of the Three Peaks, or what is
commonly called Sutter's Buttes, at a point on the east bank of
Sacramento River, in latitude 39 ° 41' 45"'; thence running with
the parallel of said latitude to the Bio de las _Plumas, or Feather
River; thence down and along the meanders of said Rio de las
Plumas, or Feather River, to its junction with Sacramento
River; thence up and, along the eastern bank of said, Sacramento River to the place or point of beginning; and which said
land is embraced in,a grant from the Mexican Government, bearing
date, Monterey, 18th- day of June, eighteen, hundred and forty-one."
The map made by John Bidwel., so far as it showed the
land claimed by Sutter,. was copied from the map acconpanying the petition of'Sutter in the archives of the country.
Mr. Wills, for the United States, appellants: The question
befbre the count is. where shall the eleven leagues of land
confirmred to, Sutter be located? The question can, be answered only by the application of established principles to
the faQts of the case.
L The, first principle which must be applied is this, that
* See United States v. Halleck, 1 Wallace, 440.

Tn

SUTTER CASE.

[Sup. CA.

Argument for a compact survey.

the rights of Sutter's vendees must be determined by the
rights of Sutter himself, and the lands confirmed to him
located in the same manner as if he were the only party
before the court.
II. The second principle which must be applied is, the
conclusiveness of the final decree of confirmation, preluding all inquiry into the original merits of the case. This
principle was applied by this court in United States v. Halleck.*
Ill. The third principle which must be applied is, that,
subject to the previous principles and rules of location, the
eleven leagues of land confirmed to Sutter, must be located
"according to the laws of the United States;" that is, according to the executive regulations established by the General
Land Office for the location of private land claims in California. This is required by one clause of the mandate of
the court. It is also required by the doctrine of this court
in the first decision of United States v. Fossat.t
The regulations require,1st. That the location and survey shall be made in a body,
and in a compact form, according to the lines of the public
surveys.
2d. That in cases of sales by the original grantee, they
shall be treated as evidence of an election by him, to that
extent, of the location of the claim confirmed; provided
compactness of form and conformity to the lines of the public surveys be preserved. These must be preserved, even
to the exclusion, if necessary, of any of the sales, for the
reasor that the original claimants themselves are subject to
such iegulations for the location of their grants as may be
prescribed under the laws of the United States, and their
vendees, of course, hold in like manner.
These requirements apply to the location of the Sutter
grant, wherever it may be attempted to be located, whether
at the upper end, at the lower end, or in the middle of the
tract of country indicated by the sketch accompanying the
* 1 Wallace, 455, 456; see also The Fossat Case, infra.

t

20 Howard, 427.

Dec. 1864.]

TiE SUTTER CASE.
Argument for location in the Forks.

grant. They cannot be fulfilled by any attempt at a de.
tached, or scattered, or long-drawn location of the grant,
made in this case, for sixty miles along the river, in a spirit
of compromise, partly at the upper end, partly at the lower
end, and partly in the middle. The grant must be located
in a compact body, wholly at whatever point of location may
be made necessary by the decree and by the other facts controlling the location. If the location is to include the north
end of the tract, then it must begin there, and extend south in
a compact body for quantity. If, on the contrary, the location is to include the south end of the tract, then it must
begin there and go north in a compact body for quantity.
The survey approved by the District Court violates these
regulations in every particular. It is an ingenious attempt
to do the impossible.
Mfr.Elihu Johnson,for the intervenorand appellant Gelston.
Mr. . B. Williams, for intervenors and appellantsAlgier and
others.
Mr.Black,for settlersunder the United States: The grant and
the confirmation were of lands lying between the Sacramento
and the Feather Rivers, above the forks of those rivers and
below the Three Peaks. The limits of the grant are precisely the boundaries of what, as is well known, now makes
Sutter County. The claimants under Sutter are confined to
those limits.
The decree of the Supreme Court was, that Sufer was
entitled only to the eleven leagues granted by Alvarado, and
that quantity should be taken within the limits set forth in
his grant and the accompanying map. The accompanying map
mentioned in the decree is of course identical with the accompanying sketch referred to in the grant. This accompanying sketch is part of the grant itself. NSo other map or
sketch can possibly have any just influence in determining
the boundaries of the title.
Sufer, it is true, had a place called his fort, which was

TuE

SUTTER CASE.

[Sup. ot.

Argument for location in the Forks.

on the south side of the American River; and there he had
workshops and servants, a distillery, mill, tannery, and what
not He cultivated there a large quantity of land, and had
many horses and cattle. But he did not ask for a title which
would cover the land occupied by him there. On the contrary, he had made improvements on the Feather River
many miles higher up the valley. He claimed all the land in
that region, and exercised supreme dominion over it. The
Hock Farm was the place he had destined for his future
home. He did remove most of his stock there in 1841.
For one of these places he needed a title as much as for the
other; he had no grant for either. He felt secure of the
fort as long as he chose to keep it. But the other land he
could not hope to keep without a regular title. He could
get a grant for only eleven leagues, and that was less than
he wanted up the river. He certainly might have petitioned
the governor, successfully for eleven leagues, on the Am'erican River. Perhaps, also, he might lawfully have asked for
two different tracts to be conceded by the same grant, one
on the American and another up at the Peaks. But he did
not do so. He asked for only one tract, and that one he said
was situated towards the north, according to the representation
in the sketch, and he was careful to exclude the land overflowed
in winter. He speaks of it as within New Helvetia. Helvetia is the old name of Switzerland. He was himself a
Switzer, a romantic man; a man, of great adventure, with
vast ideas; a sort of feudal lord. The name of New .Eevetia
does not signify that the land which he wanted lies at the
fort or near it. On the contrary, he called all the country
about the fort New Relvetia.
The grant to Sutter is dated the 18th of June, 1841. It
does not point to the cultivated and improved lands then
occupied by Sutter himself. When the lines come to be
specifically described they are given thus: North by the
Three Peaks; east by the margins of the Feather River;
south by the parallel of 380 491 32" (which runs a little
above the mouth of the Feather), and west by the Sacramento River. If the grant is to be followed, the case is too

Dec. 1864.]

THE SUTTER CASE.
Argument for the Von Schmidt Survey.

clear for controversy. If the grant is to be disregarded,
what becomes of the order of this court, that the location
shall be made within the limits set forth in the grantP
The description given of the location and boundaries of
the tract in the petition of Sutter, in the grant to him, and
in several deeds executed by him, exclude all land lying
so'ath of the American River.
The "margins of the Feather River," as called for on the
east, make the banks of the Feather the boundary there.
"MARGIN" means edge, rhn, border, not a strip of land. Besides, the margins, whatever they may be, are excluded. The
land granted goes to them and leaves them out, not over them,
so as to take them in. The banks of the Feather River, on
the western side of that stream, are, without doubt, the true
eastern limits of the grant. The call for the east boundary
would be nonsense if the south line were below the American River.
The south boundary is the parallel of latitude 88' 49' 32",
which runs from the Sacramento to the Feather, about eight
hundred yards above their confluence. This parallel of latitude is not only fixed as the southern limit of the grant by
the express words which define it as such, but the other
parts of the grant show conclusively that the true parallel
of 38 49' 32" was in the mind of the parties. It must have
been meant by them to put the southern line somewhere above the
forks of the rivers, which are the boundaries east and west.
Otherwise, the lines would not inclose any land at all.
A large portion of the land included within this survey is
overflowed land. The overflowed lands are excluded by the
express words of the grant. The city of Sacramento is on
ground thus excluded.
.r. Edwards Woodruff, for intervenors Packard and Woodruff: The survey made by Von Schmidt, deputy surveyor, in
1859, which was approved by the Surveyor-General of California, February 18, 1860, and afterwards set aside by the
District Court, was correct, and should be approved.
I. It conforms to the mandate of this court; it embraces
VOL. 11.

37

578

TiE SUTTER CASE.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the Von Schmidt Survey.

two leagues of land south of the American River, and nine
leagues on the margins of Feather River. In this respect it
follows the deposition of Vioget, to which the mandate refers.
IL That the land south of the American River was properly included, follows from the language of the decree both
of the District Court and of this court; the evidence showing that Sutter solicited this land in his petition, and that the
same was granted to him, is briefly stated in the opinion of
the court reported in 21 Howard, 170. Besides this, the grant
issued to William A. Leidesdorf by the Mexican Governor
of California on the 8th of October, 1844, shows the understanding as to the location of the land granted to Sutter of
the highest public officer in California at the time, to whose
charge the disposition of the public domain of the republic
in the department was intrusted. The tract of land which
that grant purports to transfer is situated on the south bank
of the American River, and is described as "bounded by the
land granted to the colony of Senor Sutter."*
III. That land lying on both banks of the Feather River
was also properly included, is manifest on inspection of the
decree of the court below, and of the mandate of this court.
They describe the eastern boundary of the eleven leagues
"as the margins of the Feather River inclusive."
In Ferrisv. Coover,t the Supreme Court of California, in
considering the boundaries of the grant to Sutter, and speaking of the eastern boundary, said:
"The language is peculiar. Feather River is not intended as
the boundary, for it would be so designated. It is the margins
of that river; land extending along the stream: The language
was used to indicate the general limit and course of the eastern
line. It does not necessarily mean that the eastern line must
terminate with the length of the stream, and cease when the
Feather River loses itself in the Sacramento."
And, in the same ease, commenting upon the ease of
Mever's Lessee v. Walker,T the same court said:
United States v. Halleck, 1 Wallace, 440.
9 Cranch, 173.

t 10 California, 614.

Dec. 1864.]

THE SUTTER CASE.

Argument for the Von Schmidt Survey.

"The patents called for land lying on Crow Creek, describing
them by course and distance, and referring to a plat annexed.
Neither the lines in the certificate of survey, nor the patents,
called for crossing Crow Creek; and, if run according to the
course and distance given, would not include the creek or any
part of it, or the land in possession of the defendant. But the
plat annexed represented Crow Creek as passing through the
tract, and the plaintiff requested the court to instruct the jury
that the lines ought to be run so as to include Crow Creek and
the lands in possession of, the defendants. The instruction was
refused, and the defendants had judgment. The refusal of the
instruction was assigned as error, and the Supreme Court, Mr.
Chief Justice Marshall delivering the opinion, held that the lines
should be so run as to include both sides of the creek, and conform, as near as possible, to the plat annexed to the patents;
and the judgment was reversed."*
The Supreme Court of California held, in that case of

Ferrisv. Coover, that Sacramento City and the eastern margin of Feather River were both included within the grant
to Sutter.
The early colonists introduced by Sutter, composing the
families for whose benefit the grant was, in part, issued,
were settled by him all along upon the east bank of Feather
River.
1V. The lands which are reserved by the terms of the
grant are tule or marsh lands. Such is the obvious meaning of the terms used. The Supreme Court of California
has had occasion to consider this subject, and in Cornwal v.
Galver it said:
"The language of the grant was probably intended as a compliance with the terms of the petition, and has, as we conceive,
but one meaning, and that is, to exclude lands which are inundated durin the winter, and does not apply to lands which are
occasionally flooded upon a rise of the rivers, either from probracted rains in the winter, or the melting of the snows of the
Sierra Nevada in the spring. The whole country within the
* See other cases there quoted and commented on.

THE SUT:TER CASE.

[Slip.

Argument for the Von Schmidt Survey.
exterior limits of the grant, with the exception of small portions
entirely insufficient to meet the quantity specifically granted, is
sometimes flooded in this way. The most valuable tracts, both
fir cultivation and pasturage, are the low lands bordering the
streams, over which, every two or three years, the water rests
for a few days at a time. It was these lands which, any one in
the position of Sutter, at the time he presented his petition to
the Government, would naturally have selected, and these lands
the survey actually made by Vioget, both on the Sacramento
and the Feather Rivers, included. As we read the petition of
Sutter, he solicits the eleven leagues, excluding the land which
is periodically in the winter inundated, that is, the lands which
are regularly inundated during the winter, and refers only to
what are known as tule lands. No other lands will meet the
terms of the petition. These lands are regularly, periodically
every winter, inundated. The low lands which are not ule
lands, are not thus inundated every winter. but only occasionally
-often at intervals of three and four years. The tule lands remain, too, inundated to a greater or less extent during the entire winter and spring-until the waters of the Sacramento and
Feather Rivers subside to their lowest point. The least rise
tfom the first rains of much length in the winter, covers them
with water. They are unfit for cultivation without draining.
Within the exterior limits of the grant to Sutter, there is an
immense tract of these tule lands, and it is to them that the
reservation applies."
The land upon which the city of Sacramento is built, is
sometimes overflowed to the depth of several feet, but the
water only remains a few days. The land is not tue or
marsh land.
V. The topographicalcharacter and formation of the country included within the description in the grant, and delineated upon the map accompanying the petition, is such
that the location of the eleven leagues of land must necessarily be made as by the survey of Von Schmidt, that it is
so as to embrace two leagues south of the American River,
and the remaining nine leagues upon the margins of the
Feather River, or else the whole eleven leagues must bc
located in one body upon the margins of the Feather River,

Dec. 1864.]

THE SUTTER CASE.
Opinion of the court.

as much upon the one side of said river as upon the other,
and above the Canadian Ford. This is matter of common
knowledge in California. N~o other location than the one or
the other of the above can be made, so as to meet the requirements of the grant and map (which exclude tule and
swamp lands), in consequence of the peculiar character and
conformation of that region of country.
Any location of the whole eleven leagues between the
Buttes and the Feather and Sacramento Rivers, which is
what is asked for by Mr. Black, would be contrary to the
express terms, intent and medning of the grant, because it
would necessarily include many thousand acres of tule and
swamp land.
VI. All the courts of the State of California and of the
United States, which have ever passed upon the grant to
Sutter, have held, that it included land south of the American River, and also, on both sides of Feather River. The
Board of Land Commissioners, the United States District
Court, and this court, have so held. The Supreme Court
of the State has so held in numerous cases.* In Morton v.
Folger, referred to below, the court said:
"UUpon the land supposed to be contained within the grant to
Sutter, two cities are built; one of them the second in population and wealth of the State; and it is a matter perfectly
notorious, that residents of those cities, and occupiers of land
lying between them, numbered by thousands, have taken conveyances under Sutter, and expended their money in buildings
and other improvements, relying upon the survey and maps of
Vioget, as evidence that their property was situated within the
limits of the grant."
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The appeal is from the decree or order of the court confirming a survey and location of the eleven square leagues
of land granted to Sutter by Governor Alvarado, on the 18th
June, 1841. This grant was confirmed by the Board of
* Ferris v. Coover, 10 California, 614; Cornwall v. Culver, 16 Id. 426:
Uorton v. Folger, 15 Id 277; Seaward v. Malotte, Id. 306.

582

THE SUTTER CASE.

[Sup.

Ct

Opinion of the court.

Commissioners to Sutter, together with twenty-two other
square leagues granted to him by Governor Micheltorena,
on the 5th February, 1845. The Board of Commissioners,
in their decree, state that "the land of which confirmation
is made is situated on the American, Sacramento, and Feather
Rivers, and is known as New Helvetia," and to be located as
described and explained in the depositions of John I. Vioget,
filed in the cause: "On the south by a line drawn due east
from Sacramento River, so as to touch the most southerly
point of a pond or laguna situated near said river, and about
five miles south of the American River, as represented on
the maps filed in the case, marked B. and B. P. L., exhibit
to the deposition of Juan B. Alvarado, March 15,1855, which
line is also marked on said map, Lindero latilud norte 380
49' 32"; on the north by a line drawn due east from the
Sacramento River to the southern base of the mountains
known as the Buttes, and represented on the said map by
the name of Los Tres Picos; and from thence until it intersects the eastern boundary of the tract, as represented on
said map and described in the grant, and in the depositions
of said Vioget; on the west by said river Sacramento, and
on the east by the margins of the Feather River inclusive."
"For a more particular description, reference to be had to
the copies of the grants A. and C., to the map marked B., and
to the depositions of John J. Vioget and Juan B. Alvarado,
all of which are filed among the papers in the case." The
United States appealed from this decree to the District Court,
in ,Vhich considerable additional testimony was taken on the
title and boundaries; and, after argument, the court affirmed
the decree of the Board of Commissioners substantially in
the words of that decree. From this decree an appeal was
taken to this court, and after argument the decree of the
District Court was affirmed as to the grant of eleven square
leagues, and reversed as to the twenty-two granted byMicheltorena.
The mandate of this court, sent down to the District Court
to be executed, recites the decree of that court in hwe, verba,
and then proceeds: " On consideration whereof, it is now

Dec. 1864.]

THE SUTTER CASE.
Opinion of the court.

ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court, that so much
of the decree of the said District Court as confirms the claim
of John A. Sutter to the eleven square leagues of land,
situated on the American, Sacramento and Feather Rivers,
known by the name of New Helvetia, and which was granted
to the said John A. Sutter by Governor Juan B. Alvarado,
on the 18th of June, 1841, as set forth and described in said
decree, be and the same is hereby affirmed," and the residue
of the decree, in so far as it confirms the twenty-two square
leagues to John A. Sutter by Micheltorena, be reversed,
"and that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded
to the said District Court for further proceedings to be had
therein in conformity to the opinion of this court."
The first survey and location of the eleven leagues, in
pursuance of the mandate, was made by A. W. Von Schmidt,
in 1859, a deputy surveyor, under the instructions of J. W.
Mandeville, th Surveyor-General of the United States. This
survey was approved by this officer February 18th, 1860, and
a copy filed in the District Court the 27th of the same month,
in pursuance of an order of the court. Numerous objections
were taken to this survey, by various persons interested in
the location of the grant, and a volume of evidence produced
before the court impeaching and supporting the correctness
of the same; and the court, after argument, and a very full
and elaborate examination, set aside the survey, and ordered
another to be made by the Surveyor-General, in conformity
with the opinion expressed.
This second survey was made and approved by this officer
on the 11th May, 1863, and was confirmed by the District
Court on the same day. From this decree or order of confirmation the United States, and several intervenors under
the act of 1860, have appealed to this court.
The mandate of this court must be looked to for the description of the out-boundaries of the grant to Sutter, within
which the eleven square leagues of land are to be located.
They are given in the mandate as derived from the calls in
the grant, the map B. P. L. annexed to the deposition of

T.E SUTTER CASE.

[SLIP. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Juan B. Alvarado, of 'March 15th, 1855, and the depositions
of John J.Vioget. Vioget was a practical engineer and surveyor, and made a survey of the eleven leagues, and also a
map of the same in 1840 or 1841, and before the application
by Sutter to Alvarado for the grant, and with a view to that
application. The map accompanied it, and was referred to
in the grant, and annexed to it. There were two depositions of Vioget taken, together with a cross-examination as
to each at a different time, which were before the Board of
Commissioners, and which are referred to in its decree of
confirmation, as well as in the decree of the District Court,
and in the mandate of this court, in respect to the location
of the grant. According to this survey, two square leagues
were located, at the request of Sutter, south of the American
River; and the remaining nine were located on each side
of the Feather River, extending from what was known as
the Canadian Ford on that river up the same.
The survey of Von Schmidt, in 1859, and which was approved by the Surveyor-General, and filed in the District
Court the 27th February, 1860, was made substantially in
conformity with this survey of Vioget, the map of which is
referred to in the grant by Alvarado. Von Schmidt had with
him the map B. P. L., and also A. P. L., and the depositions
of Vioget; and he found no great difficulty, with these evidences before him of the former survey, in locating the two
square leagues below the American River, and the nine on
the margins of the Feather River, above the Canadian Ford,
extending them up to the northern line, as laid down on the
maps. The general outlines, the deputy surveyor states, as
respects both parcels, were the same, and that he ran the
lines so as to conform to Vioget's survey as near as practicable. They varied some, as it was necessary to run them
on subdivision lines, according to the standing instructions
of the Land Department.
Mr. Justice Campbell, in delivering the opinion of the
2ourt in this case,* when here before, says: " An engineer
21 Howard, p. 176.

Dec. 1864.]

THE SUTTER CASE.
Opinion of the court.

and surveyor (Vioget), who prepared maps for the claimant,
testifies that, in January, 1841, he made duplicate maps for
the claimant of the establishment of New Helvetia, and
surveyed eleven leagues at that place; and that in 1843 he
traced a copy from one of these, and that copy is produced
and filed with the petition. It is a fair conclusion," he observes, "from all the evidence, that these maps of Vioget
were presented to the Governor, and form the basis of the
grant, and make part of it." The survey here alluded to,
we have seen, located two square leagues of the land south
of the American River, and the remaining nine on the Feather River. Again, speaking of the error of the line of
latitude marked on the map, he says: "But the map shows
that the line of the southern boundary is south of New Helvetia, and is so related to natural objects represented on it as
to be easily determined. Vioget accounts for the error in
the designation of the line by the imperfection of the instruments, and proves that a starting corner was fixed and the
line traced on the ground. This is better evidence of the
true location of the southern line, and conforms to the probability of the case. Upon the whole evidence," he observes,
"we find that the grant and map filed with the petition in
1852, before the Board of Commissioners, have been proved."
An objection has been made, that this tract of eleven
square leagues has been located in two separate parcels, two
leagues below the American, and nine on the Feather River.
One answer is, that the original grant with the map accompanying it, thus located it, and which location, as we have
seen, has been confirmed by the decree of this court. In
the second place, the grant was made of the tract with general out-boundaries, excluding from it lands overflown by
the swelling and currents of the rivers, in other words, We
or swamp. According to the evidence of both Vioget and
7on Schmidt, the quantity for agricultural or fast land, to
be contained in the grant, could not be obtained within the
out-boundaries without making the location in two different
parcels. The location, by the survey of Von Schmidt, in the

TiE

SUTTER CASE.

[Sup Ot

Opinion of the court.

two parcels, appears to have been made in as compact a form
as was practicable, regard being had to the condition of the
grant, to the quantity of land granted, and to the charactei
of the district of country or territory in which it was to be
located.
Without pursuing the examination of the case further, we
are satisfied that this survey and location by Von Schmidt
of the eleven square leagues of land granted to Sutter, is in
conformity with the decree and mandate of this court, and
should have been accepted and confirmed by the court below. We do not say that it is entirely free from objections,
and from our examination of the evidence, we are satisfied
that no survey or location of the tract, under the circumstances attending and surrounding the case, could be made
that would be free from objection. We refer to the numerous grants made by Sutter of parcels of land, far exceeding
the quantity ultimately awarded to him, which, of course,
could not be covered by any location that might be made;
and also to the case of pre-emption settlers, whose possessions may be included, and would be included, to a greater

or less extent, by any possible location consistent with the
original decree of confirmation by this court. We fully appreciate the difficulties and embarrassments that surrounded
the case upon the evidence in the court below; and the
opinions of the learned judge upon the various questions,
as they arose, and which appear in the record, furnish abundant evidence of the labor and earnestness with which he
endeavored to arrive at right and justice between aU parties
concerned.
The survey and location, however, which we have felt constrained to adopt, we are inclined to think, will be less disturbing and prejudicial to innocent and bond fide occupants
under grants from Sutter, or on what was supposed to be
public lands, than any other that could be made, from the
fact that Sutter's possessions, from his first settlement in the
rountry, were south of the American River, and north on
the Feather River. These possessions must have been well
known to purchasers under him, and also to settlers on what

Dec. 1864.]

UNITED STATES

V.

PACHECO.

587

Statement of the case.

they supposed to be public lands; and in addition to this,
the early survey by Vioget, which was made the latter part
of 1840, or beginning of 1841, must also have been well
known to the settlers in that section of country.
THE DECREE of the court below, confirming the survey and
location of the eleven square leagues to Sutter, approved by
the Surveyor-General, May 11, 1863, and filed in court the
same day as recited in the said decree, and marked, "Approved, May 11, 1868, Ogden Hoffman, District Judge," must
be REVERSED AND SET ASIDE; and the survey and location
of the grant by A. W. Von Schmidt, United States Deputy
Surveyor, approved by the Surveyor-General, J. W. Mandeville, February 18th, 1860, and a certified copy filed in the
District Court, 27th of the same month, be substituted in its
stead; and that the case be remitted to the court below, with
directions to confirm this survey as the location of the said

grant.

Mr. Justice FIELD did not sit in the case, nor take part
in its decision.

UNITED STATES V. PAOHECO.
1. When the boundaries designated in a decree of the District Court, confirming a claim to land under a Mexican grant in California, embrace
a greater tract than the quantity confirmed, the grantees have the right
to select the location of this quantity, subject to the restriction that the
selection be made in one body 'and in a compact form; and subject, also,
in some instances, to selections made by their previous residence, and
by sales or other disposition by them of parcels of the general tract.
2. When the sea or a bay is named as a boundary of land, the line of ordi
nary high-water mark is intended where the common law prevails.
And where a decree confirming a Mexican grant mentions a bay as
one of the boundaries of the land confirmed, without any further particulars, the same line will be considered as adopted.

APPEAL from the decree of the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of California, confirming the survey and location of a grant made by the

