Dec. 1864.]

RANSOM V. WILLIAMS.

Statement of the case.

RANSOM V. WILLIAMS.
Under the statute of Illinois which authorizes execution to issue against
the lands of a deceased debtor, provided that the plaintiff in the execution shall give notice to the executor or administrator, if there be any,
of the decedent,-a sale without either such notice or scire fac as, as at
the common law (or proof that there were no executors ?), is void. On
a question of title, under this statute, the burden of proving that his
purchase was after due notice rests with the purchaser; the record of
execution and sale not of itself raising a presumption that notice
was given.
RANSOM brought ejectment against Williams, in the Circuit
Court for the Northern District of Illinois. Both parties
claimed title from Galbraith. The plaintiff relied upon a
sheriff's deed, made pursuant to a sale under an execution
upon a judgment against Galbraith and others, obtained in
the State court of Ogle County, on the 27th of March, 1841.
The execution was issued on the 25th of November, 1847;
the sale made on the 25th of lNovember, 1848, and the deed
executed on the 24th of July, 1849. The defendants claimed
under a deed from Galbraith and wife, dated on the 81st of
May, 1842. This deed contained a special covenant against
the " claims of all persons claiming, or to claim, by, through,
or under him." Galbraith died in 1843, and letters of administration upon his estate were issued on the 25th of
February in that year.
A statute of the State of Illinois, it is here necessary to
say, authorizes execution to issue against the lands and
tenements of a deceased judgment debtor, "provided, however,.the plaintiff or plaintiffs in execution, or his or their
attorney, shall give to the executor or administrator, if there
be any, of said deceased person or persons, at least three
months' notice in writing, of the existence of said judgnent
before the issuing of execution." There was no proof that
such notice had been given to the legal representatives of
Galbraith; but it was proved by the plaintiff that the premises in controversy had been sold under a prior execution,
and. that, on the motion of the judgment creditor, the court

RANSOM V. WILLIAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the sale.

to which the execution was returned had set the sale aside,
quashed the execution, and ordered that another execution
should issue. This order was made on the 24th of September, 1847.
The court below charged the jury, that the want of proof
of due notice to the legal representatives of Galbraith, beforq
the issuing of the execution, under which the sale was made,
was fatal to the plaintiff's case.
The jury found accordingly, and the plaintiff excepted.
The correctness of the charge was the point on error here.
Mr. E. S. Smith, in support of the sheriff's sale: The only
thing made necessary by the proviso, before execution can
issue, is notice to the executors, or administrators, if there
be any, of the existence of the judgment. The statute dispenses with the common law proceedings, and in cases only
where there are administratorsor executors appointed, is it necessary to give notice. If there be no executors or administrators, execution can issue and sale be made, after the
death of the defendant, without notice, and this sale can be
defeated only by showing that administrators had been appointed at the time the execution issued, and that no notice
of sale was given to them. The design of the statute was
to give to the creditor a cheap mode in which to enforce
the lien of his judgment. The lien once attached, it will
operate until the judgment is satisfied.
The record is regular on its face. It is just as it ought to
be, supposing notice to have been given. Even if notice
had been given, that fact would not appear on it. Herein,
a sale, under the Illinois statute, would differ from a common law proceeding, where the sci. fa. to revive would be
a part of the record proper. The present record thus affords
presumptive evidence that notice had been given; and it
placed the burden of proof on the defendants to show want
0 f notice, if there was such want. The defendants could
have called the administrators to show this want, if it really
existed.
The defendants claim title from Galbraith, by deed, dated

Dec. 1864.]

RANSOM V. WILLIAMS
Argument in support of the sale.

May 31st, 1842, which shows, so far as the rights of the
plaintiff are concerned, that there was no notice required to
the administrators or heirs. The deceased had, long prior to
his death, conveyed all his right in the property to Williams,
the defendant, and, of course, it was subject to the judgment
lien. It would be folly to require of the plaintiff proof that
notice had been given to a party who had no interest in the
property. After showing title in themselves, the defendants
are estopped from showing irregularity in the execution
from want of notice. They do not stand in the shoes of the
heirs. The only question is, who had the first lien ?
But, in addition, it appears that the execution on which
the land was first sold was set aside, and a second execution
ordered. It is thus plain that the court was even more than
commonly advised. It is to be presumed in law-it cannot
be doubted as fact-that the court had satisfactory notice
that the administrators of Galbraith had received nQtice.
At any rate, the proceedings cannot be attacked collaterally.
These doctrines have been declared with great strength by
this court in more cases than one.* But, in these cases,
the court did no more than enforce settled principles of
English common law. Prigg v. Adams, reported by Serjeant Salkeld, A.D. 1692,t afibrds foundation for all since
iterated here. In that case, which was trespass and false
imprisonment, the defendant justified, as an officer, under
a ca. sa. on a judgment in the Court of Common Pleas, upon
a verdict of five shillings for a cause of action in Bristol.
The plaintiff replied, and set forth a private act of Parlia.
ment, erecting the court of conscience in Bristol, wherein
was a clause that, if any person bring such action in any of
the courts of Westminster, and it appeared upon trial to be
under forty shillings, that no judgment shall be entered for
the plaintiff, and ifit be entered, that it shall be void. Upon
demurrer, the question was, whether the judgment was so
far void, that a party shall take advantage of it, in this colla* See supra, Florentine v. Barton, p. 210, also Tyler v. Harvey, infva,
t 2 Salkeld. 674.
p. 328, and cases cited.

RANSOM V.

WILLIAMxS.

[Sup. C1.

Argument against the sale.

teral action. And the court held that it was not; and con.
strued the statute to mean, that it should be void only at the
instance of the defendant, in direct proceedings taken by him to
vacate or set aside the judgment on that ground. Apply the
principle in that case to the one under consideration, and
treat the statute as declaring, that if an execution issue
against the lands and tenements of a deceased defendant,
without the record showing that notice was given to the
administrator, it shall be void; and then, we say, that the
defendants in this suit cannot take advantage of the objection in this way. None but the representatives of the
deceased defendant, or the heirs, could make the objection;
and they only by motion to set aside, or other proceedings
to vacate the order.
The result of the whole is, that the plaintiff below should
have had judgment.
Mr. Hitchcock, contra: Under the laws of Illinois, the judgment should have been revived by scirefacias,or by a notice
in writing to the administrators of the deceased, of the existence of the judgment before issuing the execution. The
first is a common law proceeding, and the second is authorized by the statute quoted. This notice is provided as a
protection to heirs against dormant judgments, and is a substitute for scire facias. No evidence was offered of revivor
in either mode. For want of notice the execution is void.
This is a rule of property in Illinois. In New Hampshire,
Pennsylvania, Mississippi, and elsewhere, courts may have decided that an execution issued after the death of a defendant
is voidable only, and cannot be attacked collaterally. Such,
however, we think, is not the rule in the courts of Illinois under
this statute. Every maxim of the law imposes the burden of
proof, in this respect, upon the plaintiff. He claims a statutory benefit, and must aver and prove himself to be within
the terms of it. lie holds the affirmative in asserting title
under the statute. The fact that notice was given is peculiarly within his knowledge, and the means of proof within
his control. The statute makes it his duty to give the

Dec. 1864.]

RANSOI V. WILLIAMS.
Opinion of the court.

notice, and he is presumed to preserve the evidence of a
fact so essential. The defendant is a stranger to the judgment, to the notice, and to the administrators. A party
will be held to prove a negative, if the means of such proof
are specially within his control. A fortiori is the burden
upon him, if he asserts a title upon an affirmative proposition, with the means of proof specially within his power.
A different rule would impose on the defendant the burden
of proving a negative.
The question is, moreover, settled by authority.*
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
By the common law, the death of either party arrested all
further proceedings in the case. If the death occurred before
judgment, the suit abated. If there was but one defendant,
and he died after judgment, no execution could issue unless
it was tested before the death occurred. In such case it was
necessary to revive the judgment by scire facias. The statute of Westminster 2d (18 Edward I) first gave a remedy
against the lands of judgment debtors. The same rules
applied to a writ of elegit sued out under that statute. If
there was more than one defendant, and one of them died,
execution might issue against all, though it could be executed
only as to the survivors. It was so issued, because it was
necessary that it should conform to the record of the judgment.t
The notice under the statute is cumulative. The plaintiff
may give it, or resort to the common law remedy by scire
facias. Executions in Illinois are required to bear test on
the day they are issued.$ When a defendant dies after
judgment, and an execution is subsequently issued without
the notice required by the statute having been given, or the
* Laflin v. Herrington, 16 Illinois, 301; Finch et al. v. Martin et al.,
19 Id. 105.
t Woodcock v. Bennet, 1 Cowen, 711; Stymets v. Brooks, 10 Wendell,
207; Erwin's Lessee v. Dundas et al., 4 Howard, 77; Brown v. Parker, 15
Illinois, 307.
T Brown v. Parker, 15 Illinois, 309

RANSOM V. WILLIAMS.

[Sup. or.

Opinion of the court.

judgment revived by scire facias, the execution is a nullity,
and all proceedings under it are void.*
The order of the court of Ogle County, that another exe.
cution should issue, does not in our judgment affect the case.
Upon the death of Galbraith, the jurisdiction of the court
as to him terminated. He was no longer before the court.
When the order was made he had been dead more than four
years. Itdoes not appear that his legal representatives were
present, or had any knowledge of the proceedings. The
order was proper, and the execution was valid as to the
surviving defendants. As to them, the process might have
been executed. We cannot understand from the order, that
the court intended to affect the estate of Galbraith, or those
claiming under him. If such were the intention, the order
having been made against parties not shown to have been
actually or constructively before the court, was, so far as
they are concerned, clearly void.
The authorities which require the fact of competent jurisdiction to be presumed in certain cases have no application
here. The statute is in contravention of the common law,
and hence to be construed strictly. The notice is a substitute, and the only one permitted for the proceeding, otherwise indispensable, by scire facias. The provision is plain
and imperative in its language, and it is the duty of a court
called upon to administer it, not lightly to interpolate a
qualification which the statute does not contain.
The deed from Galbraith contains a special covenant
against the "claims of all persons, claiming, or to claim,
by, through, or under him." If the premises in controversy
should be lost to the defendants, his estate would be liable
.u damages; and his legal representatives were entitled to
all the time which the statute allowed them after notice, to
show, if they could, that the collection of the judgment
ought not to be enforced.
It is contended that it was incumbent on the defendants
*

7eicket v. Hartsock, 15 Illinois, 279; Brown v. Parker, Id. 307; Fincb

et 9I. v. ttlartin et al.- 19 Id. 111.

Dec. 1864.]

DIeNSO 6 V. WILLIAMS.
Opinion of the court.

to show that the proper notice had not been given. We
cannot take that view of the subject. The judgment survived only for the preservation of its liens, and as the basis
of future action. The statutory notice, or its alternative-a
seire facias-was necessary to give it vitality for any other
pury use. Upon the death of the defendant being shown,
auy execution issued upon it was, as to him, prima face
void. This presumption could be overcome only by showing, either that no legal representative had been appointed,
or that the notice required by the statute had been given.
The plaintiff asserted a title, and it was for him to show
everything necessary to maintain it. The rule on this sub.
ject is thus laid down by Chief Justice Marshall :* "It is a
general principle, that the party who sets up a title must
furnish the evidence necessary to support it. If the validity
of a deed depends upon an act in pais, the party claiming
under that deed is as ruch bound to prove the performance
of the act, as he would be bound to prove any matter of
record on which its vitality might depend. It forms a part
of his title: it is a link in the chain which is essential to its
continuity, and which it is incumbent on him to preserve.
These facts should be examined by him before he becomes
a purchaser, and the evidence of them should be preserved
as a necessary muniment of title." We understand the
Supreme Court of Illinois to have ruled this point in the
same way.t
The instructions given in the Circuit Court were, in our
opinion, correct, and the
JUDGMENT IS AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

* Williams v. Peyton, 4 Wheaton, 79; see, also, Thatcher v. Powell, 6

Id. 127.
t Finch et al. v. Martin et al., 19 Illinois, 110.

