Dec. 1864.]

HECKERS V. FOWLER.
Statement of the case.

HECKERS V. FOWLER.
1. A declaration in covenant by a patentee, setting out a sealed contract by
defendant to pay him a certain tariff in consideration of an exclusive
right to use the patent within a certain district, is good.
2. The practice of referring pending actions under a rule of court to arbitrators appointed by the court with the consent of both parties, is a mode
of prosecuting a suit to judgment, as well established and as fully warranted as a trial by jury.
8. A reference to hear and determine all the issues in a case, does not require
the referee to report his finding in all. It is answered by his hearing
and determining all and reporting the result.
A. A judgment in the Circuit Court, entered by the clerk without objection
upon the report of the referee and pursuant to order of court and the
agreement of parties, is valid and can be enforced.
JOHN FOWLER brought suit in the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of New York, against John and George
Hecker, to recover damages for a breach of covenant. The
declaration alleged that the plaintiff, who was the patentee
of an improvement in making flour, had granted to the
Heckers the right to supply a particular district with such
flour, &c., paying so much per barrel. Defence, that the
patent was worthless, and that the plaintiff had failed to
maintain its validity at his own cost, as he had agreed to do.
Replication; issue, and joinder. While the case was thus
pending, the attorneys of the parties agreed to refer it to a
"referee, to hear and determine the same, and all issues
therein, with the same powers as the court, and that an
order be entered, making such reference; and that the
report of said referee have the same force and effect as a
judgment of said court." One of the judges accordingly
"ordered that the cause be referred to H. Cramm, Esq., to
hear and determine all the issues herein, with the fullest
powers ordinarily given to referees; and that on filing the
report of the said referee with the clerk of the court, judgment be entered in conformity therewith, the same as if the
cause had been tried before the court." The referee heard
the case, and without stating what his findings were upon
any of the several issues presented in the pleadings, made

MECKERS V.

POWLEt.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

the finding, simply and generally, that there was due to
plaintiff, John Fowler, from the defendants, John and
George Hecker, the sum of $9500, besides costs, all which
he "reported" to the court. On this, the attorneys of Fowler drew up the form of a judgment, and without the presence or action of the court, except the order of reference
already alluded to, filed it with the clerk, who thereon entered judgment, as a judgment of the court, for the amount
reported, with costs. The defendant took this writ of error.
It is necessary here to state that, by the code of New
York,* a referee is clothed with the attributes of a judge.
A trial by him is to be conducted in the same manner as
a trial by the court; he may grant adjournments, allow
amendments, compel the attendance of witnesses. His decisions may be excepted to and revised, as in cases of appeal from courts of record. It is also enacted, that "the
report of the referees upon the whole issue shall stand as
the decision of the court, and judgment may be entered
thereon in the same manner as if the action had been tried
by the court."
Mr. Norton, for the plaintiffin error: No objection, we think,
can properly be taken to the right of this court to entertain
the matters here presented; although it might be suggested
that the facts in this case not having been found either by a
general or special verdict, nor agreed upon in a case stated,
and there being no bill of exceptions, there are no questions
open to revision here, and hence that this court will affirm
the judgment of the court below, of course. We apprehend
it to be clear, however, that while this court will not review
the judgment of inferior courts made without the intervention of juries, or on a case stated, it will, at the same time,
exercise its superintending care in preventing the judgments of State judicial officers from being interpolated into
the records of the courts of the United States, and being
Buforced by the process of those courts.
*

272.

Dec. 1864.]

HECKERS v. FOWLER.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Assuming, then, the jurisdiction to exist, we observe:
1. That the declaration, which relies on a contract in
restraint of trade, does not set forth a sufficient cause of
action. But,
2. The case presents to us a record of mixed proceedings,
commenced before a judicial officer of the United States,
conducted by a judicial officer unknown to the courts of the
United States, whose judgment (or a paper purporting to be
a judgment) is filed in the office of the United States Circuit
Court, attached to the pleadings by its clerk, and made a
part of the record in this case. Will such a proceeding be
allowed? State courts are authorized by statutes to have
such proceedings; but without statute the proceedings would
be very irregular, and there is no statute of the United States
which authorizes them in the Federal courts. This court
has, indeed, decided, that if the parties agree to submit the
trial both of fact and law to the judge, they constitute him
an abitrator or referee, whose award must be final and conclusive between them; but no consent can constitute this
court appellate arbitrators. But in this and in other cases
which might be cited, the judgment was rendered by a judge
created by the laws of the United States, whose function it
is to pronotince judgments in the courts of the United States.
In this record there is no such judgment. Whatever is rendered, is rendered by a person wholly unjudicial, and dehors
the tribunal; or coming into it only pro hac vice. Even if it
is a judgment in the Circuit Court, it is not a judgment of
the court.
3. The referee did not decide the case in conformity with
the order of court. He did not "determine all the issues of
the case;" but made a single and general finding that there
was due such a sum.
4. But even the referee's judgment was not properly entered. In fact, though he made a report, he gave no judgment. The clerk gave the judgment. It is, therefore, invalid, and cannot be enforced.
Hr. Andrews, contra.

HECKERS V. FOWLERI.

[Sill. (it

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York.
Suit was brought in this case by the present defendant,
and judgment was rendered in his favor in the court below.
Action was referred, under a rule of court, by consent of the
parties, and the judgment in the case was rendered upon the
report of the referee, made in pursuance of the rule of reference. Original defendants sued out this writ of error, and
now seek to reverse the judgment upon the several grounds
hereinafter mentioned. Errors assigned at the argument
were in substance and effect as follows:
1. That the declaration and the matters therein contained
are not sufficient in law to enable the plaintiff to maintain
the action.
2. That the Circuit Court erred in passing the order that
the action should be referred, and that the matters in controversy should be heard and determined by a referee.
3. That the action of the referee was erroneous, because
he did not determine all or any of the issues involved in the
pleadings.
4. That the judgment set forth in the transcript is invalid,
and not such a one as can be enforced in the Circuit Court
of the United States.
1. First objection was not much pressed at the argument,
and is entirely without merit, as will be obvious from a brief
examination of the record. Plaintiff was assignor and patentee of a certain invention, described as a new and useful
improvement in the preparation of flour for the making of
bread; and the substance of the declaration was that the
defendants, in consideration that the- plaintiff had granted
to them the exclusive right to supply a certain district with
such prepared flour, and to manufacture and vend therein
the patented ingredients used in the preparation of the
bame, promised to account with and pay over to the plaintiff
a certain tariff for every barrel of flour so supplied, and for
the patented ingredients, when manufactured and sold sepa
rately, to be used in its preparation. Agreement was in

D~ec. 1864..1

e ECKEnS V. FOUWLER.
Opinion of the court.

writing and under seal, and the action was, covenant broken
to recover damages for the neglect and refusal to account
and pay the tariff according to the terms of the contract.
Pending the suit, the defendants appeared and pleaded to
the merits. They made no objection to the declaration, and
if they had, it must have been overruled, as it is in all aspects
sufficient and well drawn.
2. Substance of the second objection is, that the Circuit
Court erred in allowing the reference. Defence, among
other things, was that the plaintiff agreed to maintain the
validity of the patent at his own expense during the period
the defendants should be engaged in the business, and that
he neglected and refused so to do, and that the patent was
invalid and worthless. Replication of the plaintiff reaffirmed the facts set forth in the declaration, and tendered
an issue to the country, which was duly joined by the defendants. Pleadings being closed, the parties agreed in writing
to refer the cause to a referee, "to hear and determine the
same and all the issues therein, with the same powers as the
court, and that an order be entered making such reference,
and that the report of the referee have the same force and
effect as a judgment of the court."
Following that agreement is the order of the court allowing the reference, which is the subject of complaint. Recital
of the record is, that on reading and filing the agreement
"the court ordered that the cause be referred" to the referee
therein named, to hear and determine all issues therein with
the fullest powers ordinarily given to referees, and that on
filing the report of the said referee with the clerk of the
court, judgment be entered in conformity therewith the
same as if said cause had been heard before the court, and
the attorneys of the parties annexed their consent in writing
to the order.
Intention if the court and of the parties was to refer the
action; and the requirement of the referee was that he
should hear and determine the matters in controversy, and
make his report to the court in which the action was pending.
Defendants insist that such a reference of a pending suit in

HECKERS

v.

FOWLER.

[Sup.

OL

Opinion of the court.

the Circuit Court of the United States is invalid, because
such courts have no power to authorize such a proceeding.
Such is the substance of the several propositions submitted
by the defendants on this branch of the case. They admit
that the State courts have such powers, but insist that the
power is derived from statute, and that the Circuit Courts
cannot exercise it, because there is no act of Congress which
confers any such authority.
Where the United States are plaintiffs, or an alien is a
party, or the suit is between a citizen of the State where the
suit is brought and a citizen of another State, the Circuit
Courts of the United States have original cognizance, con.
current with the courts of the several States, of all suits of
a civil nature at common law or in equity, where the matter
in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of
five hundred dollars. Record shows that the plaintiff was
an alien, and tl the defendants were citizens of the State
where the suit wvas brought. Amount in dispute exceeds
the sum or value of five hundred dollars, and inasmuch as
the suit was of a civil nature, at common law, the jurisdiction of the court was clear beyond cavil.*
Scope of the objection, however, does not directly involve
the question of juisdiction, but has respect to the mode of
trial as substituting the report of a referee for the verdict
of a jury. Circuit Courts, as well as all other Federal
courts, have authority to make and establish all necessary
rules for the orderly conducting business in the said courts,
provided such rules are not repugnant to the laws of the
United States. Practice of referring pending actions is coeval with the organization of our judicial system, and the
defendants do not venture ,ihe suggestion that the practice
is repugnant to any act of Congress. On the contrary, this
court held, in the case of the Alexandria Canal Co. v. Swan,t
that a trial by arbitrators, appointed by the court, with the
consent of both parties, was one of the modes of prosecuting a suit to judgment as well established and as fully war*1 Stat. at Large, 78,

t 5 Howard, 89.

Dec. 1864.]

IIEoKERS V.

FOWLER.

129

Opinion of the court.

ranted by law as a trial by jury, and, in the judgment of
this court, there can be no doubt of the correctness of that
proposition.
Doubts were, nevertheless, entertained whether a bill of
exceptions would lie to the ruling of the Circuit Court in
overruling the objections fied by the losing party to the
acceptance of the report or award of a referee appointed
under a rule of court: York and Cumberland B. B. Co. v.
Myers.* Opinion of the court in that case shows that the
action, at the time of the reference, was pending in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Maine.
Myers brought the suit, and the parties, before trial, agreed
to refer the action to three persons, to be appointed by the
court. Presiding justice named three persons as referees,
and the rule issued by the clerk provided that their report,
or the report of a majority of them, "was to be made to the
court as soon as may be, and that judgment thereon was to
be final, and execution to issue accordingly." Subsequently,
one of the persons so appointed was, with the leave of the
court, authorized by the parties to sit alone, and he made a
report awarding damages to the plaintiff.
Corporation defendants, when the report was made, submitted written objections to the acceptance of the same,
and examined the referee in support of the objections.
Question presented was, whether the report should be accepted or rejected; but the circuit judge overruled the objections, accepted the report, and rendered judgment for
the plaintiff for the amount reported by the referee. Defendants excepted to the rulings of the court, and sued out
a writ of error to reverse the judgment. Preliminary objection in this court was that the bill of exceptions would not
lie, because the proceedings, as it was insisted, had been
irregular; but this court held otherwise, and decided the
ause upon the merits. Conclusion of the court was that
the equity of the statute, allowing a bill of exceptions in
courts of common law, embraces all such judgments or
* 18 Howard, 246.

VOL. 11.

9

130

HECKERS v. FOWLER.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

opinions of the court arising in th course of a -ause as are
the subjects of revision by an appellate court, aid which do
not otherwise appear on the record.*
Subordinate tribunal, say the court, must ascertain the
facts upon which the judgment or opinion excepted to is
founded, which undoubtedly is correct for the reason there
given, that this court cannot determine, in cases at common
law, the weight or effect of evidence, nor decide mixed ques
tions of law and fact. Allusion is then made to the fact,
that appellate courts in other jurisdictions are accustomed
to revise such judgments and opinions, aud the court say,
"Upon principle we can see no objection to the introduction
of the same practice into the courts of the United States,
under the limitations we have indicated." Taken as a
whole, that case is decisive of the question under consideration. But it is a mistake to suppose that the practice referred to was first sanctioned in this court by the opinion in
that case. Ample authority for it is to be found in a decision of this court, pronounced more than forty years before
the question in that case was argued. Reference is made
to the case of Thornton v. Carsont in which the opinion was
given by Chief Justice Marsiall: Statement of the cas
shows that two pending actions were referred by consent
under a rule of court. Arbitrators made an award. Effect
of the award was that the defendant was to pay to the plaintiff (Carson) the amount of the bonds in suit, unless by a
certain day he made a conveyance to the plaintiff of the
property described in the award; in which latter event he
was to receive from the plaintiff a transfer of certain shares
in a mining company, and to be discharged from the payment of the money, an entry to that effect to be made in the
suits. Defendant failed to perform the act which would entitle him to such an entry in the case, and consequently
became liable to pay the sums awarded by the referee. Oral
* Strother v. Hutchinson, 4 Bingham's New Cases, 83; Ford v. Pott4
I Halsted, ,88; Nesbitt v. Dallam, 7 Gill & Johnson, 494.
f 7 Cranch, 596.

Dec. 1864.]

D 8.EOKERS v. FOWLER.
Opinion of the court.

objections were made to the acceptance of the award, but
the court overruled the objections, and rendered judgment
for the plaintiff on the award for the amount of the money
awarded. None of the evidence introduced when the award
was accepted appeared in the record, and no bill of exceptions was tendered to the ruling of the court, but the defendant removed the cause into this court by a writ of error.
Under those circumstances, this court refused to revise the
rulings of the Circuit Court; but, in disposing of the case,
the court say, if he, the original plaintiff, failed to do that
which warranted the court in entering judgment on the
award, it was the duty of the complaining party to have
shown that fact as a cause against entering judgment, and
to have spread all the facts upon the record, which would
enable this court to decide whether the court below acted
correctly or not. Various other objections were also taken
to the proceedings; but they were all overruled, and the
judgment was affirmed. Similar views have been expressed
by this court on other occasions, but it is not thought necessary to do more than to refer to the other cases, as those
already examined are believed to be decisive.*
Practice of referring pending actions under a rule of court,
by consent of parties, was well known at common law, and
the report of the referees appointed, when regularly made
to the court, pursuant to the rule of reference, and duly
accepted, is now universally regarded in the State courts as
the proper foundation of judgment.f
3. Third objection is, that the action of the referee was
erroneous, because he did not determine all of, the issues
between the parties. Evidently the objection is founded in
* Carnochan et al. v. Christie et al., 11 Wheaton, 446; Luts v. Linthicun,
8 Peters, 176; Butler v. Mayor of N. Y., 7 Hill, 329; Ward v. American
Bank, 7 Metcalf, 486; Water Power Co. v. Gray, 6 Id. 174.
t Yates v. Russell, 17 Johnson, 468; Hall v. Mister, Salkeld, 84; Bank of
Monroe v. Wadner, 11 Paige, 583; Green v. Palshen, 13 Wendell, 295;
Caldwell on Arbitration, 359; Feeler v. Heath, 11 Wendell, 482; Graves r.
Fisher, 5 Maine, 70; Miller -. Miller, 2 Pickering, 570; Com. v. Pejepscut
Proprietors, 7 Massachusetts 417, 420.

IIECKERS V. FOWLER.

[Sup. C1.

Opinion of the court.

a mistaken view of the duty of the referee as prescribed in
the rule of reference. He was not required, either by the
agreement of the parties or by the order of the court, to
report specially what his finding was upon the several issues
presented in the pleadings. His duty was to determine all
the issues, and to report the result of his finding. Referee
reported that, having heard and examined the matters in
controversy in the cause, and having examined on oath the
several witnesses produced, there was due to the plaintiff the
sum of nine thousand and five hundred dollars, besides the
costs of suit. Presumption is, that he did determine all the
issues, and inasmuch as there was no evidence to the contrary, the conclusion must be to the same effect.
4. Fourth objection is, that the judgment is invalid and
cannot be enforced. Defect suggested is, that the judgment
was rendered by the clerk and not by the court; but the
record, when properly understood, does not sustain the objection. Judgments are always entered by the clerk under
the authority of the court. Prevailing party is entitled to
judgment, and it is not the practice in the Circuit Courts to
require a rule for judgment to be entered in any case, as is
the practice in some of the courts in the parent country.*
Entry of judgment in term time is never made except by
leave of court; but the motion need not be in writing, and
the order of the court is seldom or never entered in the
minutes. When the term closes, judgments are entered by
the clerk under the general order without motion; and yet
no one ever doubted that a judgment entered under such
circumstances was the act of the court and not of the clerk.
Reference of a pending action is ordinarily perfected in term
time by an entry made under the case by the clerk, at the
request of the parties, that it is "referred," and with the
addition of nothing else except the names of the referees,
or it may be done, as it was in this case, by a written agreement, signed by the parties or their attorneys, and filed in
the case. When that is done a rule is then issued, or hc
* 2 Tidd's Practice, p. 903; Archb id's Practice, by (hitty, 621.

Dec. 1864.]

HEcKERS v. FOWLER.
Opinion of the court.

order of the court may be entered in the minutes, as was
done in this record. Duty of the referee is to notify and
hear the parties, and then to determine the controversy, and
make a report or award to the court in which the action is
pending, and from which the rule was issued. Judgment,
however, cannot in general be entered in conformity to the
report or award until it is accepted or confirmed by the
court.* Reason for the rule is, that whenever it is presented, and before it is accepted, the party against whom it
is made may object to its acceptance; but if required by the
court, he must reduce his objections to writing, and file them
in the case. Hearing is then had, and after the hearing the
court may accept or reject the report; or, if either party
desires it, the report may, for good cause shown, be recommitted. Such a report of referees is in many respects a substitute for the verdict of a jury. Where there is no agreement to that effect, no judgment can be entered on such a
report until the same has been accepted. Present case,
however, must be determined upon the peculiar circumstances disclosed in the record. Parties agreed that the
report of the referee should have the same force and effect
as a judgment of the court, and the court ordered, by consent of parties, that on filing the report with the clerk of
the court, judgment should be entered in conformity therewith, the same as if the cause had been tried before the
court. Referee accordingly made the report and filed it as
required, and thereupon the clerk entered the judgment
pursuant to the order of the court and the agreement of the
parties. Proceedings of the referee were correct, and the
losing party made no objections to the report.t Judgment
having been entered without objection, and pursuant to the
order of the court and the agreement of the parties, it is not
possible t3 hold that there is any error in the record.1
* Brown v. Cochran, 1 New Hampshire, 200.

t Hughes v. Bywater, 4 Hill, 551.
$ Bank of Monroe v. Widner, 11 Paige, 538.

EX PARTE DUGAN.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

Theory of the objection is unfounded in fact, and upon
that ground it is overruled. The judgment of the Circuit
Court is, therefore,
.AEFIRmED WITH COSTS.

Ex PARTE DUGAN.
On a mere petition for a certiorari,the court, according to its better and
more regular practice, will decline to hear the case on its merits, even
though the counsel for the petitioner produce a copy of the record
admitted on the other side to be a true one. It will wait for a return,
in form, from the court below.

ON a petition for a certiorarito the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia to send up the record of their proceedings upon a habeas corpus issued from that court upon the
application of the petitioner, it was stated by Mr. J. H.
Bradley, counsel of the petitioner, that a copy of the record had
been obtained; and he asked this court, upon the admission
of the Attorney-General that the copy was a correct one, to
hear the case without a return from the court below. The
Attorney- General, on the other hand, while admitting the copy
of the record produced io be correct, moved the court, for
reasons which he laid, to continue the case.
BY THE COURT. We think it the better, as well as the
more regular practice, to await the return of the court below
before taking any action on the merits. The certiorariwill,
therefore, be now awarded. Upon the coming in of the
return the case will be regularly before us; and the motion
for continuance made by the Attorney-General will then be
disposed of.
ACTION ACCORDINGLY.

