Dec. 1864.]

PICO V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

of New Orleans, or neutrals residing there, and not affected
by any attempts to run the blockade, or by any act of hastility against the United States after the publication of the
proclamation, must be regarded as protected by its terms.
It results from this reasoning that the Venice and her
cargo, though undoubtedly enemies' property at the time
she was anchored in Lake Pontchartrain, cannot be regarded
as remaining such after the 6th of May; for it is not asserted
that any breach of blockade was ever thought of by the
claimant, or that he was guilty of any actual hostility against
the national Government.
It is hardly necessary to add that nothing, in this opinion,
touches the liability of persons for crimes or of property to
seizure and condemnation under any act of Congress.
DECREE AFFIRMED.
[See supra, p. 185, The Crcassian; a case, in some senses, suppletory or
complemental to the present one.]

PICO

V. UNITED STATES.

When a claim to land in California is asserted as derived through the Mexican Land System, the absence from the archives of the country, of evidence supporting the alleged grant, creates a presumption against the
validity of such a grant so strong that it can be overcome, if at all,
only by the clearest proof of its genuineness, accompanied by open and
continued possession of the premises.
APPEAL by Andres Pico from the decree of the District
Court of the United States for the Northern District of
California, the case being as follows:
Pico claimed a tract of land in California, to the extent
of eleven square leagues, under a grant alleged to have been
issued ta him on the 6th of June, 1846, by Pio Pico, then
Mexican Governor of the department. In 1852 he presented
a petition, for the confirmation of his claim, to the Board of

Oommi!iiouers to ascertain and settle land titles in Califor.

280

PICO V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

nia, created under the act of March 3d, 1851. The board
rejected the claim; but on appeal to the District Court, the
decree of rejection was reversed, and the claim was adjudged
to be valid, and was confirmed. The United States appealed
from this decree of confirmation to the Supreme Court, and
by that court the decree was reversed, and the cause remanded for further evidence.* Further evidence having
been taken, the case was again brought before the District
Court for hearing, and by that court a decree was entered,
on the 4th of June, 1862, adjudging the claim to be invalid,
and rejecting it. From this decree the present appeal to the
Supreme Court is taken.
In support of his claim before the District Court, the
.dlaimant produced three documents,-the first purporting
to be a grant from the Mexican Governor, Pio Pico, dated
June 6th, 1846, for the land; the second purporting to be a
certificate of the approval of the grant by the Departmental
.Assembly, on the 15th of June, 1846; and the third purporting to be a communication from the Deputy Secretary of
the Assembly to the Secretary of State, informing him that
the grant, together with two other grants, had been approved
by the Assembly on the 15th of July, 1846.
Of the first two documents there was no trace in the
archives, except what is furnished by the third document.
There was no evidence that any.of the proceedings required
by the Mexican Colonization Regulations, preliminary to
the issue of a grant, were taken, either by the claimant or
the Governor. The journals of the Departmental Assembly
showed that no proceedings were had on the 15th of June,
1846, relating to the grant in question; and that there was
no session of that body on the 15th of July, 1846. The
third document was found among the archives, but was on
a separate sheet, unconnected with any other papers. There
was no evidence in the case that the grantee ever took poseession of the land under the alleged grant, or that such
* See United States v. Pico, 22 Howard, 406.

Dec. 1864.]

PIco v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

grant was known, or its existence suspected, until long after
the United States had occupied the country.
Mr. Gillet, for the appellant.
Mr. Speed, A. G., and Mr. Wills, for the United States.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The regulations of 1828, which were adopted to carry into
effect the colonization law of 1824, prescribed with great
particularity the manner in which portions of the public
domain of Mexico might be granted to private parties, for
Ihe purposes of residence and cultivation. It is unnecessary
to state the several proceedings designated, as they have been
the subjects of frequent consideration in previous opinions
of this court. All of them, from the petition of the colonist
or settler to the concession of the Governor, were required
to be in writing, and when the concession was made, to be
forwarded to the Departmental Assembly for its consideration. The action of that body was entered, with other proceedings, upon its journals, and these records, together with
the documents transmitted to it, were preserved among the
archives of the Government in the custody of the Secretary
of State of the Department. The approval of the Assembly
was essential to the definitive validity of the concession, and
when obtained, a formal grant was issued by the Governor
to the petitioner. The regulations contemplated an approval
to precede the issue of the formal grant; so when the grantee
received this document the concession should be considered
final. For a long time after the adoption of the regulations
this course of proceeding was followed; but afterwards, and
for some years previous tQ the conquest, a different practice
prevailed, and the formal title-papers were issued without
Waiting for the action of the Assembly, a clause being inserted to the effect that the grant was subject to the approval
of that body. Of the petitions presented and grants issued,
whether before or after the approval of the Assembly, a
record was required to be kept in suitable books provided
for that purpose.

282

PIco v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

As will be perceived from this statement, it was an essential part of the system of Mexico, to preserve full record
evidence of all grants of the public domain, and of the various proceedings by which they were obtained. When, therefore, a claim to land in California is asserted under an alleged
grant from the Mexican Government, reference must, in the
first instance, be had to the archives of the country embracing
the period when the grant purports to have.been made. If
they furnish no information on the subject, a strong presumption naturally arises against the validity of the instrument produced, which can only be overcome, if at all, by the
clearest proof of its genuineness, accompanied by open and
continued possession of the premises.
Tested by this rule, the grant under which the appellant
claims was properly rejected as invalid. The archives contain no trace of its existence, with the exception of a communication from the Deputy Secretary of the Assembly,
addressed to the Secretary of State, informing the latter
that the grant had been approved on the 15th of July, 1846.
The certificate of approval produced by the claimant declares
the approval to have been made on the 15th of June preceding. The journals of the Assembly destroy all confidence
in the statements of both certificate and communication.
They show that no session was held on the 15th of July,
and that no proceedings with reference to the grant in question were bad on the 15th of June. There can be little
doubt, therefore, that the communication was introduced
among the archives subsequently to the acquisition of the
country.
Nor was there any evidence produced, either before the
Board of Commissioners or the District Court, that the
grantee ever entered into possession of the premises alleged
to have been granted, or that the existence of the grant was
known or suspected until long after the conquest.
The decree of the District Court rejecting the claim must,
therefore, be affirmed; and it is
SO ORDERED.

