Dec. 1864.]

SHEETS V.

SELDEN'S LESSEE.

Syllabus.

public as partners of the deceased. Letjudgment of affirmance be entered in the case, and a statement of this decision
be certified to the Supreme Court of Nevada.*
AFFIRMANCE AND CERTIFICATE ACCORDINGLY.

SHEETS V. SELDEN'S LESSEE.
1. When a deed is executed on behalf of a State by a public officer duly
authorized, and this fact appears upon the face of the instrument, it is
the deed of the State, notwithstanding the officer may be described as
one of the parties, and may have affixed his individual name and seal.
In such case the State alone is bound by the deed, and can alone claim
its benefits.
Accordingly, where the legislature of Indiana passed two acts, one authorizing the Governor, and the other the Governor and Auditor of the
State to sell certain property of the State, and to execute a deed of the
same to the purchaser on behalf of and in the name of the State, and
such property being sold, the Governor and Auditor executed to the
purchaser a deed, naming themselves as parties of the first part, but referring therein to the acts of the legislature authorizing the sale, and
to a joint resolution approving the same, and declaring that, by virtue
of the power vested in them by the acts and joint resolution, they conveyed the property sold, "being all the right, title, interest, claim and
demand which the State held or possessed," such deed was sufficient to
pass the title of the State.
2. Land will often pass without any specific designation of it in the conveyance as land. Everything essential to the beneficial use and enjoyment of the property designated is, in the absence of language indicating a different intention on the part of the grantor, to be considered as
passing by the conveyance.
Accordingly, where the conveyance was of a division or branch of a canal,
"including its banks, margins, tow-yaths, side-cuts, feeders, basins, right
of way, dams, wator-ower, structures, and all the appurtenances thereunto belonging," certain adjoining parcels of land belonging to the
grantor which were necessary to the use of the canal and water-power,
and were used with it at the time, but which could not be included in
any of the terms above, in Italics, passed by the conveyance.
8. At the common law the grantee of a reversion could not enter or bring
ejectment for breach of the covenants of a lease; and the statute of 32
Henry VIII, giving the right of entry and of action to such grantee, is
confined to leases under seal.
- See Webster v. Reid, 11 Howard, 461.
VOL. ii.

12

SHEETS V.

SELDEN'S LESSEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
4. The term "month," when used in contracts or deeds, must be construed,
where the parties have not themselves given to it a definition, and there
is no legislative provision on the subject, to mean calendar, and not
lunar months. The term thus held in a lease of the State of Indiana.
6. In the interpretation of contracts, where time is to be computed from a
particular day or a particular event, as when an act is to be performed
within a specified periodfrom or after a day named, the general rule is
to exclude the day thus designated, and to include the last day of the
specified period.
Accordingly, where leases provided that the rents should be paid semiannually on the first days of May and November; and that if any instalment should remain unpaid for one month from the time it should
become due, all the rights and privileges secured to the lessees should
cease and determine, &c., the one month from the first day of May,
within which the payment of the rent due on that day was to be made
to prevent a forfeiture, expired on the first day of June following. In
the computation of the time, the day upon which the rent became due
was to be excluded.
6. Verbal authority is sufficient for a person to act as agent or a lessor in
the collection of rent, or in demanding its payment.

THE State of Indiana, being owner of the Northern Division of the Central Canal, and of certain adjacent lands, authorized its Board of Internal Improvement, to cause any
surplus water, of which there was some, along "with such
portions of ground belonging to the State as might be necessary
to its use, to be ]eased." Under this act leases were made in
1839-40,-one to Yandes & Sheets, another to Sheets; each
for the term of thirty years.
The leases reserved certain rents, payable semi-annually
on the first of May and November, and they provided that
if any rent should "remain unpaid for one month from the
time it shall become due," "all the rights and privileges" of
the lessees "shall cease and determine, and any authorized
agent of the State, or lessee under the State, shall have
power to enter upon and take possession of the premises," &c.
The first lease, that to Yandes & Sheets, in addition to the
use of the water-power, in consideration of the rents reserved, leased, also, as necessary, "for the use of the waterpower hereby leased," and for the same term and on the same
conditions "the particular portion of ground belonging to
the State at said point, included within the following boun-

Dec. 1864 ]

SHEETS V. SELDEN'S LESSEE.

Statement of the case.

daries, to wit, [here a particular piece of ground was described] containing a little more than half an acre." The
second lease, that to Sheets, in consideration of the rent
reserved, leased also for the same term, and on the same
conditions as the water-power was leased, "such part of the
ground belonging to the State as in the opinion of the engineer having charge may be necessary to the use of the waterpower hereby leased,'" to wit [here, also, a particular piece
of ground, as thus necessary, was described]. The lease to
Yandes & Sheets was executed on the part of the State by
the President of the Board of Internal Improvement, and by
the lessees in this form:
D. H. M.AxwELL, [sEAL.]
President of the Board of Internal Improvement.
DAIEL. YANDES, [sEAL.]
WILIAMs~ SHEETS. [SEAL.]

The lease to Sheets was executed by N. Noble, Acting
Canal Commissioner, and Sheets, in this form:

N. NosiLs,
Acting Commissioner for the Northern Division
of the Central Canal.
WIrIAM SHEETS.

The "seals" which appear to the lease to Yandes &
Sheets were ink scrawls. No seals of any kind appeared on
the second lease,-that to Sheets.
Some time subsequently to the making of these leases the
State passed two statutes. By the first, entitled "An act to
authorize the Governor of Indiana to compromise with, and
to cause suit to be brought against lessees of the waterpower of the Northern Division of the Canal," the Governor
was authorized to sell "all the right, title, and interest of
the State of Indiana, in and to the Northern Division of the
Central Canal, and all the rents that shall become due after
the sale of the said property, and the water-power and appurtenances thereunto belonging."
By the second, entitled "An act to authorize the sale of
the Northern Divisior of the Central Canal," the Governor

SHEETS V.

SELDEN'S LESSEE.

[Sup. (it

Statement of the case.

and Auditor of the State were "authorized to make sale and
dispose of all the right, title, interest, claim, and demand
which the State holds in the Northern Division of the Central Canal, situate in the said State of Indiana, with all the
water-power and appurtenances thereunto belonging," and authorizing those officers to convey the same to the purchaser,
on behalf of the State, in the name of the State of Indiana.
The Governor accordingly made public sale of certain
property, advertised for sale, as "being all the right, title,
interest, claim, and demand which the State may hold or
possess in the Northern Division of the Central Canal, and
all the rents which may have become, or shall become, due
after the sale of said property, and the water-power, and
the appurtenances thereunto belonging, including its banks,
margins, tow-paths, side-cuts, feeders, basins, right of way,
dams, water-power, structures, and all the appurtenances
thereunto belonging." And having reported the sale to the
legislature, that body confirmed it, directing him to convey
the said portion of the canal, with the rights, privileges, and
appurtenances, to the purchaser in fee.
The Governor and Auditor of the State (J. A. Wright and
E. W. H. Ellis) afterwards executed to F. A. Conwell, who
held under the purchaser, an instrument, which made one
of the questions in the case. It purported to be made "between Joseph A. Wnight, Governor of the State of Indiana,
and Erastus W. H. Ellis, Auditor of said State, of the first
part, and F. A. Conwell of the second part," and recited the
sale, and referred to the several acts under which the instrument professed to have been executed, which are those hereinbefore recited; and acknowledged the payment of the
purchase-money.
It then makes known that, by virtue of the power vested
in them by the acts and joint resolution therein named, "We,
Joseph A. Wright, Governor of the State of Indiana, and Erastus W. I. Ellis, Auditor of the said State, do hereby convey
to the said F. A. Conwell," &c., in fee, all the estate, &c.,
herein described; the description being just as the property
was sold, an d as the same is above described; nothing, how.

Dec. 1864.]

SHEETS V. SELDEN'S LESSEE.

Statement of the case.

ever, being described by metes and bounds, or in any form
more specific than that above given; and, as the reporter
inferred from the argument, neither parcel falling within
the specific designation of "bank, margin, tow-path, sidecut, feeder, basin, right of way, dam, or structure."
The deed was thus executed and tested:
"In testimony whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
affixed the seal of said State, at the city of Indianapolis, the day
and year first above written.

{ SEAL

OF THE STATE
OF =IANA.

"JOSEPH A. WRIGHT,
" Governor.
"RASTUS W. 11. ELLIS,
"Auditor of State.

"C. H. TEST,
"1Secretary of State."

Selden became owner of the property thus sold by the
State; and Sheets, being in possession under the leases
which the State had made, and having refused to pay rent,
an agent of Selden, authorized by parol, formally demanded,
on the first day of May, 1860, and afterwards on thefirst day
of June, a short time before sunset, upon the premises, the
rents due on the first of May of the year just named. Payment not being made, Selden, regarding the lease as forfeited, brought ejectment against Sheets (the only tenant in
possession). The premises for which the action was brought
wete the parcels of land described in the two above leases,
executed in 1839-40 by the Board of Internal Improvement,
as property belonging to the State, and leased in connection
with the surplus water, because necessary to the use of such
water. The defences in substance were:
I. To the deed of the Governor and Auditor.
1. As not executed in the name of the State.
2. As not embracing the premises in controversy.
IZ. That the leases not being under sea], Selden, as grantee
of the reversionary interest of the State, could not maintain
ejectment upon breach of the covenants to pay.
II.. That the demand for rent, if authorized at all, should
have been made on the 31st May, and h-ving been made on

SHEETS V.

SELDEN'S LESSEE.

[Sup. Ot

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

the 1st June, was too late; moreover, that the agent who
made the demand was not authorized in writing.
The court below-the Circuit Court of the District of In
diana--held none of these defences sufficient; and judgment
was given for the plaintiff. The same reasons urged against
recovery there were taken for reversal in error here.
Mr. Dumont,for Sheets, plaintiff in error: The deed by the
Governor and Auditor is not a deed made on behalf of the
State in the name of the State; which the statute declares
that it must be. It is by Mr. Wright, the Governor, and
Mr. Ellis, the Auditor. These persons do not profess to act
even as attorneys of the State; and if they did, the thing
would be irregular, for the deed should have been made in
the name of the principal; that is to say, of the State by its
attorneys; and not in the name of the Governor and Auditor, even if they represented themselves as attorneys of the
State, which with such a mode of presentation would not
be a grantor at all. "It was resolved," says Lord Coke, in
Combe's case,* "that when any has authority to do any act,
he ought to do it in his name who gives the authority; for
he appoints the attorney to be in his place and to represent
his person, and therefore the attorney cannot do it in his
own name, nor as his proper act, but in the name and as
the act of him who gives the authority." No rule in the
law is better settled than this, and none has so uniformly
received the sanction and approbation of the various judicial tribunals of the country.t In this case, however, as
we have said, the attorneys do not even profess to act in
the name of the State. They act in their own name; their
official titles being added, just as the same titles might well
have been added, and probably would have been added,as descriptions of who the grantors were,-if the same individuals had been conveying lands belonging to themselves
" 9 Coke, 76, b.
t See Ewell v. Shaw, 1 American Leading Cases, 2d ed., 559, note; where
authorities are collected.

Dec. 1864.]

SHEETS V.

SELDEN'S LESSEE.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

personally. Indeed, it would be doubtful whether, in any
kind of contract, titles thus appended would be held to be
more than descriptive designation, or to relieve from personal liability; for Wright neither conveys nor signs as
governor, nor Ellis as State auditor. In regard to a deed,
however, the act of acts in the law, the case is stronger than
the case of simple contracts, and, as we think, is quite plain.
The statutes under which the sale was made have no such
inherent force as to operate without regard to general law,
as administered between private persons. They may or may
not indicate what was meant to be sold; but they do not alter
the ancient settled effect of those acts which are done. We
concede that, in many cases of Government contracts, the
intention to bind the Government and not the agent will
prevail; as, for example, where, from the whole instrument,
such intention is manifest; but this exception does not
apply where the act of the agent, and the manner of its
execution, are alike specifically pointed out by legislative
direction; and especially does it not apply to a case like the
present, where the effect of the act of the agent is to divest
the State of title to a valuable freehold estate in lands, and
important public franchises besides. Here the legislature
has provided how that thing should be done, and by whom.
2. The State, no doubt, was owner of all the lands demised by the leases; but did the State authorize a sale of
all those lands? The legislature describes specifically what
should be sold. It is the "water-power" and the "appurtenances;" nothing else. Now, this ejectment is brought for
certain pieces of land, meted and measured out; pieces of
land which, confessedly, are not any one of the things either
advertised for sale or sold, unless they are those "appurtenances" which,,we admit, were sold. But "it seems now
settled," says Tomlins,* citing authorities, "that lands will
not pass by the word appurtenances." To insist that the
particular tracts described in the leases are appurtenantto
* Law Dictionary,

Tit. "Appurtenances;"

citing the old reporters,

'Palmer, 375;. Godbolt, 852; Hutton, 85; S. 0. Littleton, 8.

184

S

V. SELDNr's Li-sm-E.
c11vV

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

some one or more of the things sold by the State, would be
even more absurd than to maintain that land can be appurtenant to land. It would be maintaining that land can be
appurtenant to a mere easement, a right of way, a waterpower, or a stream of water, natural or artificial. The lands
demised cannot be "appurtenant" to the bed of the canal, nor
to its banks, nor its margins, nor its tow-paths, nor its side-cuts,
nor its feeders, nor its basins, nor the right of way, nor the
dams, nor the water-power, nor the structures, specified in the
act. What the State meant to convey is not important.
The question is, what has she conveyed? and that is to be
determined by looking at the words of the statutes and
deed, and interpreting them by the rules of law; rules
which are of all time, and are the same whether the parties
be States or subjects.
2. The leases are not under seal. Now, when a forfeiture
is asserted, the party asserting it must prove the forfeiture
strictly, for forfeitures are odious. Whence comes this right
of re-entry at all? It comes from an English statute; a statute passed in the worst year of, perhaps, the worst of
English kings,-in the 32d Henry VIII; but which, in
common with most statutes of our mother country prior to
the fourth year of James I, is confessedly in force by statute
adoption of 1818* in Indiana. The language of the English
statute is thus:
"The grantees or assignees shall have and enjoy the like advantages against the lessees, &c., by entry for non-payment of rent,
&c., and also shall and may have and enjoy all and every such
like and the same advantage, benefits, and remedy, by action
only, for not performing other conditions, covenants, and agreements, contained and expressed in the indentures of their said
leases, demises, or grants, against all and every the said lessees,
&e., as the said lessors or grantors themselves, &c:, ought, should,
or might have enjoyed, at any time or times, in like manner and
form as if the reversion of such lands, &c., had not come to the
hands of our said sovereign," &e.
Revised Statutes of Indiana, 1818, p. 308.

Dec. 1864.]

1

SirTS V. SELDEN'S .LESSEE.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

This statute carries with it the construction which it has
received in England, as well as with us. Now, in Biciford
v. Parson,* Judges Wilde, Coitman, Maule, and Cresswell,
severally gave opinions, each one of them assuming it to be
settled law that to bring a case within this statute of 32
Henry VIII, 84, the lease must be by deed; Maule, J., saying,
" The demise not being by deed, the right to sue is not transferred to the assignee of the reversion by force of the statute."
Doubtless, it will be said that the necessity for a seal in
the true form is dispensed with by our Illinois statute of
1843. But is it? The statute providest that an ink scrawl
may be used, "except where any statute of this State shall
require a speciftc seal." Is it clear that, adopted by statute
of Illnois as the statute of 32 Henry VIII will be conceded
by all to have been, a "specific seal" is not necessary when
you attempt to establish the forfeiture allowed by the English act; that forfeiture especially which there, as here, is
odious, and in favor of which nothing will be intended nor
benignantly construed? But even supposing that an ink
scrawl, or even no seal, would be sufficient between private
persons, yet certainly when the State is the lessor, the private ink scrawl of the State's agent is not sufficient.
3. The demand was too late. This courtj has fully recognized the obligation of the common law requirements in regard to re-entry on the ground of forfeiture for non-payment
of rent. One of these requirements is, that where, as in
the present case, the agreement is, that "if the rent shall be
behind and unpaid by the space of thirty or any other
number of days after the days of payment, it shall be lawfil
for the lessor to re-enter; a demand must be made on the
thirtieth or other last day."ยง The right to re-enter for breach
here is by the terms of the lease suspended for one month
from the time the rent became due. "The month, by the
* 5 Manning, Granger, and Scott (57 English Common Law), 920.

t Statutes of 1843, p. 592, 25, chap. 33.
Connor v. Bradley, 1 Howard, 217.
Duppa v MAayo. 1 Saunders, 286, note 16.

SHEETS V. SEI.DEN'S LESSEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

common law," says Tomlins,* quoting good authorities, "ia
but 28 days, and in case of a condition for rent, the month
shall be thus computed. So in the case of enrolment of
deeds, and generally in all cases where a statute speaks of
months." It is true that, by an Illinois "act in relation to
the construction of statutes and the definition of terms," it
is declared that the word "month" shall mean a calendar
month; but this act relates only to the construction of statutes, and to the meaning of terms as used in them.. So, too,
the fact that in mercantile contracts, or in other contracts
where there was, obviously, such an intention, the calendar
month is assumed, is not important; for this business of forfeiture is a very strict proceeding under ancient common law.
Admitting, however, that a calendar month was meant, and
that the court will so construe the leases, yet then the authority is, that the demand must be on the last day of the month.t
Here it was on the first of the succeeding.
Mr. HRendricks, contra.
Mr. Justice FILELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The objections taken by the defendant in the court below
against a recovery, and urged in this court for a reversal of
the judgment, which require consideration, relate, 1st, to
the validity of the deed executed by the Governor and Auditor of Indiana to pass the title of the State to the premises
in controversy; 2d, to the claim by the lessors of the plaintiff of a right to maintain ejectment for the premises upon a
breach of the covenants to pay rent contained in the leases
of the State; and 3d, to the proceedings taken to effect a
forfeiture of the leases.
1. The objection to the deed of the Governor and Auditor
is, that it is not executed in the name of the State, and does
not cover the premises in controversy.
it is true that the form of the deed is not in literal com.
Law Dictionary, tit. " Month;" and citing 1 Institutes, 135; 6 Re.
vorts, 62; Croke James, 167; 6 Term, 224.
t Duppa v. Mayo, 7 Saunders, 286, note 16.

Dec. 1864.

SHEETS V. SELDEN'S LESSEE.

Opinion of the court.

pliance with the language of either of the acts of Indiana;
it is not in terms between the State, of the one part and the
assignee of the purchasers of the property of the other part;
but it shows a completed transaction between the State and
the grantee named. It refers to the acts of the legislature
authorizing the sale; it sets forth a sale made pursuant to
their provisions; it mentions the joint resolution affirming
the sale; and it declares that the Governor and Auditor in
virtue of the power vested in them by the acts and joint
resolution convey the property sold, "being all the right,
title, interest, claim and demand which the State" held or
possessed therein.
In the execution of this instrument the Governor and
Auditor acted officially and not personally, and in our judgment the deed was sufficient to pass the title of the State
they represented. And it may be stated generally that when
a deed is executed, or a contract is made on behalf of a State
by a public officer duly authorized, and this fact appears
upon the face of the instrument, it is the deed or contract
of the State, notwithstanding that the officer may be de..
scribed as one of the parties, and may have affixed his individual name and seal. In such cases the State alone is
bound by the deed or contract, and can alone claim its
benefits.*
The objection that the deed does not cover the premises
in controversy rests upon the fact that it does not convey
the parcels of land for which the action is brought, by
specific designation and description. Such designation and
desciption, though usual, are not always essential. Land
will often pass by other terms. Thus a grant of a messuage
or a messuage with the appurtenances will carry the dwelling-house and adjoining buildings, and also its orchard,
garden, and curtilage.t The true rule on the subject is this,
that everything essential to the beneficial use and enjoyment
* Hodgson v. Dexter, 1 Cranch, 845; Stinchfleld v. Little, 1 Greenlea4
231; The-State v. McCauley, 15 California, 456.
+ Shepherd's Touchstone, 94.

SHEETS V.

SELDEN's LESSEE.

[SLIP. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

of the property designated is, in the absence of language indicating a different intention on the part of the grantor, to
be considered as passing by the conveyance.* Thus the
devise of a mill and its appurtenances was held by Mr. Justice Story to pass to the devisee not merely the building but
all the land under the mill and necessary for its use, and
commonly used with it.t So a conveyance "of a certain
tenement, being one-half of a corn-mill situated," on a designated lot "with all the privileges and appurtenances" was
held by the Supreme Court of New Hampshire to pass not
only the mill, but the land on which it was situated, together
with such portion of the water privilege as was essential to
its use.t And the exception of a factory from a mortgage
deed was held by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts to
extend to the land under the factory, and the water privilege
appurtenant thereto.ยง
In the deed from the Governor and Auditor the property
conveyed is designated as "all the right, title, interest, claim,
and demand, which the State may hold or possess in the
Northern Division of the Central Canal, &c., and all the
rents which may have become, or shall become due after the
sale of said property, and the water-power, and the appurtenances thereunto belonging, including its banks, margins,
tow-paths, side-cuts, feeders, basins, right of way, dams,
water-power, structures, and all the appurtenances thereunto belonging."
This language is comprehensive enough to carry the
several parcels of land described in the declaration. These
parcels are described in almost identical language in the
leases executed by the Board of Internal Improvement on
behalf of the.State. The law providing for leasing the surplus water, authorized at the same time the leasing of "such
portions of ground belonging to the State as might be necessary to its use ;" and the leases specify those particular
* Sparks v. Hess, 15 California, 196.

- Whitney v. Olney, 8 Mason, 280.

Gilson v. Brockway, 8 New Hampshire, 465.
See, also, to the same effect, Wise v. Wheeler, 6 Iredell, 196; and
elaine's Lessees v. Chambers, 1 Sergeant & Rawle, 169.

Dec. 1864.]

SHEETS V.

SELDEN'S LESSEE.

Opinion of the court.

parcels as being necessary to the beneficial use and enjoyment of the water.
2. The objection that the lessors of the plaintiff, as gran-,
tees of the reversionary interest of the State, cannot maintain ejectment for the premises upon breach of the covenants
fo pay rent contained in the leases of the State, rests upon
the supposition that the leases are not under seal.
It is conceded that at the common law the grantee of a
reversion could not enter or bring ejectment for breach of
the covenants of a lease; and that the statute of 32 Henry
VII, giving the right of entry and of action to such grantee,
was confined to leases under seal. The statute speaks of
conditions, covenants, and agreements, contained in indentures of leases, demises, and grants; language only applicable
to sealed instruments. That statute was adopted in Indiana
as early as 1818, but a law of the State passed in 1843 alters
its rule, and extends its remedies to all leases.
3. The objection taken to the proceedings for the forfeiture of the leases is-that the demand for the rent was not
made on the proper day, nor by properly authorized agents.
The demand was made on the first day of May, and also on
the first day of June. The first demand was premature; the
question is as to the demand on -the latter day. The leases
provided that the rents should be paid semi-annually on the
first days of May and November; and that if any instalment
should remain unpaidfor one month from the time it should become due, all the rights and privileges secured to the lessees
should cease and determine, and any authorized agent or
lessee of the State should have power to enter and take possession of the premises.
By the term "month" as here used is meant a calendar,
and not a lunar month. The legislature of Indiana has
attached this meaning to the term when it is used in the
statutes of the State, but has not defined its meaning in contracts or deeds, and it is contended by the plaintiff in error
that in the absence of any legislative provision on the subject, the term must be construed in these instruments to
mean lunar and not calendar months. But this view cannot

S

EETS 1'.

SELDEN'S Lr-2sEE.

[Sup. Ut

Opinion of tile Court.

be sustained. The terra is not technical, and when the parties have not themselves given to it a definition, it must be
construed in its ordinary and general sense, and there can
be no doubt that in this sense calendar months are always
understood. The reasons upon which a different rule rests
in England with reference to other than mercantile contracts, do not outweigh this consideration.*
The rent becoming due on the first day of May, the one
month from that time within which the payment was required to be made to prevent a forfeiture, expired on the
first day of June following. In the computation of the time,
the day upon which the rent became due was to be excluded.
The general current of the modern authorities on the interpretation of contracts, and also of statutes, where time is to
be computed from a particular day or a particular event, as
when an act is to be performed within a specified period
from or after a day named, is to exclude the day thus designated, and to include the last day of the specified period.
"When the period allowed for doing an act," says Mr.
Chief Justice Bronson, "is to be reckoned from the making
of a contract, or the happening of any other event, the day
on which the event happened may be regarded as an entirety, or a point of time; and so be excluded from the
computation."t
The parties who made the demand for rent were duly authorized by the lessors of the plaintiEL Authority in writing
was not essential; verbal authority was sufficient for the
purpose.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

* Gross v. Fowler, 21 California, 392; Strong v. Birchard, 5 Connecticut,
861; Browi v. Harris, 5 Grattan, 298.
t Cornell v. Moulton, 8 Denio, 16; see also Bigelow v. Wilson, 1 Picker
Ing, 485.

Dec. 1804.]

(UITTENDEN

c.

BREWSTER.

Statement of the case.

CHITTENDEN ET AL. V. BREWSTER ET AL.

I It is the duty of assignees, for the benefit of creditors, who have once

2

accepted the trust, not only to appear, but so far as the nature of the
transaction, and the facts and circumstances of the case will admit cr
warrant, to defend the suit. And if a Federal court is already seized
of the question of the validity of the trust, they should set up such
pending proceeding against any attempt by parties in a State court tc
bring a decision of the case within its cognizance. If, when the Federal
court has acquired previous jurisdiction, they submit with a mere appearance, and without any opposition to the jurisdiction of the State
court, and pass over to a receiver appointed by it the assets of the trust,
they will be held personally liable for them all in the Federal court.
A party not appealing from a decree cannot take advantage of an error
committed against himself; as for example, that the appellant had
omitted to prove certain formal facts averred in his bill, and which were
prerequisite of his case. But where-assuming the fact averred, but
not proved to be true-a decree given against a party in the face of such
want of proof is reversed in his favor, it may be reversed with liberty
given to the other side to require him to prove that same fact which the
appellee, when seeking here to maintain the decree, was not allowed to object that the appellant had failed, below, to prove.

Tins was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court for
the Northern District of Illinois.
The suit was a creditor's bill filed against a judgment
debtor and his assignees, the defendants in the case, to set
aside an assignment made by the debtor to hinder and delay
creditors. The assignment was made on the 4th of November, 1857, to Brewster and Clark, two of the defendants,
and purported to convey to them all the property, real and
personal, of the debtor, in trust, to convert the same into
money, either at public or private sale, and pay certain preferred creditors named. The judgment debtor made no
defence. The assignees put in ajoint answer, and after requiring the complainants to make proof of theirjudgments and executions as charged in their bill, set forth, among other grounds of
defence, that, after the filing of the bill below, a bill in
chancery had been filed against them in one of the State
"ourts, in behalf of other creditors of the judgriient.debtor.

