Dec. 1864.]

IIOGAIN V. PAGE.
Statement of the case.

tions of the court were in all substantial respects correct.
The decree of the Circuit Court, therefore, is
AFIRmED WITH COSTS.

HOGA3N V. PAGE.
1. A patent certificate, or patent issued, or confirmation made to an original
grantee or his IIeal representatives," embraces representatives of such
grantee by contract, as well as by operation of law; leaving the question open -in a court of justice as to the party to whom the certificate,
patent, or confirmation should enure.
2. The fact that A., many years ago, did present to a board of commissioners
appointed by law to pass upon imperfect titles to land, a "claim" to
certain land, describing it as "formerly" of B., an admitted owner;
the fact that the board entered on its minutes that A., "assignee" of B.,
presented a claim, and that the board granted the land to "the r-epresentatives" of B.; and the fact that A., with his family, was in possession
of the land many years ago, and cultivating it, are facts which tend to
prove an assignment; and as such, in an ejeetment where the fact of
an assignment is in issue, should be submitted as evidence to the jury.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Missouri; the case being
thus:
After the cession, in 1808, by France, of Louisiana, to the
United States, Congress passed an act* establishing a board
of commissioners at St. Louis, for the purpose of settling
imperfect French and Spanish claims. The act provided
that any person who had, for ten consecutive years prior to
the 20th December, 1803, been in possession of a tract of
land not owned by any other person, &c., "should be confirmed in their titles."
In 1808, one Louis Lamonde presented a claim for a tract
of one by forty arpens, "formerly the property of Auguste
Oond6." The minutes of the board, of November 13th,
1811, disclosed the following proceedings:
"Louis Lamonde, assignee of Auguste Cond6, claiming one by,
forty acres, situate in the Big Prairie district of St. Louis, pro.
* Act of 3d March, 1807, 2 Stat. at Large, 440.

HOGAN V. PAGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff and defendant.

duces a concession from St. Ange and Labuxi~re, LieutenantGovernor, dated 10th January, 1770.* The board granted to
the representatives of Auguste Cond6 forty arpens, under the provisions of the act of Congress, &c., and ordered that the same be
surveyed, confbrmably to possession, &c."
The minutes did not record the fact that any assignment
of this land from Conde' to Lamonde had been presented
to the board, or that other proof was made of such conveyance.
This decision of the board, among many others, was reported to Congress, and the title made absolute by an act
of 12th April, 1814. In 1825, Lamonde obtained from the
recorder of land titles a certificate of the confirmation.
Hogan, claiming through Lamonde, now, A. D. 1850,
brought ejectment at St. Louis against Page for a part of
this land. Lamonde was an old inhabitant of St. Louis,
who had died some ten years before the trial at a very advanced age; and there was some evidence on the trial that
he and his family cultivated this lot in the Grand Prairie at
a very early day, before the change of government under
the treaty of 1803; and evidence that by the early laws of
the region these interests passed by parol.
The court below decided that the plaintiff was not entitled
to recover upon the evidence in the case.
Nr. Gantt,for the defendant here and below, in support of
this ruling, insisted here that, as no assignment or transfer
of Cond4's interest in the concession was proved before the
land board or at the trial, the confirmation could not enure
to the benefit of Lamonde, so as to invest him with the title;
and that, in the absence of the assignment, the confirmation
"to the representatives of Auguste Cond'" enured to the
benefit of his heirs.
Messrs. Browning, Bill, and Ewing, argued contra for the
plaintif,that, as Lamonde presented his claim to the board,
* This concession, about which there was no dispute, was to Condd.

Dec.1864.]

HOGAN v. PAGE.
Opinion of the court.

as assignee of Cond&, and as such set up a title in his notice
of the application, the act of the board should be regarded
as a confirmation of his right or claim to the land; and the
cases of Strother v. Lucas,* .Bissell v. Penrose,t and Landes v.
.Brant,t in this court, were referred to as supporting this
view of the confirmation.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
On looking into the cases cited on the part of the plaintiff,
it will be seen that the confirmations which there appeared
were either to the assignee claimant by name, or in general
terms, that is, to the original grantee and "his legal representatives;" and when in the latter form, it was the assignee
claimant who had presented the claim before the board, and
bad furnished evidence before it of his derivative title, and
which had not been the subject of dispute. The present
case, therefore, is different from either of the cases referred to.
A difficulty had occurred at the Land Office, at an early
day, in respect to the form of patent certificates and of
patents, arising out of pplications to have them issued in
the name of the assignee, or present claimant, thereby imposing upon the office the burden of inquiring into the
derivative title presented by the applicant. This difficulty,
also, existed in respect to the boards of commissioners under
the acts of Congress for the settlement of French and Spanish claims. The result seems to have been, after consulting
the Attorney-General, that the Commissioner of the Land
Office recommended a formula that has since been very
generally observed, namely, the issuing of the patent certificate, and even the patent, to the original grantee, or his
legal representatives, and the same has been adopted by the
several boards of commissioners. This formula, "or his
legal representatives," embrace representatives of the original grantee in the land, by contract, such as assignees or
grantees, as well as by operation of law, and leaves the
* 12 Peters, 458.

t4 8 Howard, 888.

t 10 Id. 870.

HoGAN v. PAGE.

[Sup. at.

Opinion of the court.

question open to inquiry in a court of justice as to the party
to whom the certificate, patent, or confirmation, should
enure.
Now, upon this view of the case, we think the court below
erred in ruling, as matter of law, that the plaintiff was not
entitled to recover. The question in the case is, whether or
not the evidence produced by the plaintiff on the trial before
the jury tended to prove that there had been an assignment
by the one of forty arpens from Cond6 to Lamonde, prior
to his notice of the claim before the board of commissioners
in 1808? If it did, then it should have been submitted to
the jury as a question of fact, and not of law. The transaction was ancient, and of course it could not be expected that
the evidence would be as fall and specific as if it had occurred at a more recent period.
The piece of land is but a moiety of the original concession to Cond6; and it appears that previous to the change
of government, and while Cond6 was living, Lamonde and
his family were in possession cultivating the strip, in the
usual way in which these common field lots were occupied
and improved. And very soon after the establishment of a
board at the town of St. Louis, for the purpose of hearing
and settling these French and Spanish imperfect grants, we
find him presenting this claim before the board, setting up a
right to it as his own, and asking for a confirmation; and in
the proceedings of confirmation, the board speak of it as a
claim by Lamonde, assignee of Condb.
The title did not become absolute in the confirme, whoever that person might be, till the passage of the act of
1814; and in 1825, Lamonde, for he appears to have been
then alive, procured from the recorder of land titles the certificate of confirmation.
We are of opinion that these facts should have been sub
mitted to the jury, for them to find whether or not there
had been an assignment or transfer of interest in this strip
of one by forty arpens from Condd to Lamonde. Especially
do we think that the question should thus have been submitted, at it appears that at this early day and among these

Dee. 1864.]

MINNESOTA Co. v. ST. PAUL

Co.

609

Statement of the case.

simple people, a parol transfer of this interest was as effectual as if it had been in writing.
JUDGMENT REVERSED

with costs, and cause remanded with

directions to issue
NEW vEiE.

MNNESOTA COMPANY V. ST. PAUL CoMPANY.
1. *Where a bill in equity is necessary to have a construction of the orders,
decrees, and acts made or done by a Federal court, the bill is properly
filed in such Federal court as distinguished from any State court; and
it may be entertained in such Federal court, even though parties who
are interested in having the construction made would not, from want
of proper citizenship, be entitled to proceed by original bill of any kind
in a court of the United States.
In such a case the question will not be, whether the bill filed is supplemental or original in the technical sense of equity pleading; but whether
it is to be considered as supplemental, or entirely new and original, in
that sense which the Supreme Court has sanctioned with reference to
the line that divides jurisdiction of the Federal courts from that of the

State courts.
2. A railroad company, owning the whole of a long railroad, and all the
rolling stock upon it, may assign particular portions of such rolling
stock to particular divisions,-certain cars, for example, to one division; the residue of the rolling stock to another,-and mortgage such
portions with such divisions, so as to attend them. Whether the company have so mortgaged their rolling stock is a question of intention.
In the present case it was decided that they had.
8. Qu -: Whether a marshal's sale is valid in any case, unless supported
by a judicial order previously made. It is not valid where made under
the marshal's wrong interpretation of an order which the court did in
fact make; not valid in such a case even where the court confirmed of
record the marshal's sale; the court's attention not being specifically
directed to the marshal's mistake, nor any issue raised as to what the
court really meant, nor decision made, on such issue raised, that the

marshal's act should remain firm.
THE La Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad Company was
chartered by the legislature of Wisconsin to build a road
across-that State from Milwaukie to La Crosse, and began
VOL. U.

89

