Dec. 1864.]

THE SLAVERS. (REINDEER.)
Statement of the case.

person by that name engaged in the shipping business-in
the port of New York. Two or more clearance clerks were
examined, and they testify that they never heard of a business man there of that name. Persons who have for years
been engaged in the China and African trades were also
examined, and they testify to the same effect. Even Schmidt,
the ship-broker and partner of the person who sold the vessel for twelve thousand dollars, testifies that he never saw
him but once, and that was in the street, and that he. did
not know whether he was the actual owner, or merely the
agent of the real purchaser of the vessel. Woodbury, the
grantor of the vessel, was not called by the claimant. When
the appeal was taken in the Circuit Court, the petition was
signed by his counsel, and the bond given on the appeal,
although drawn for the signature and seal of the claimant,
was executed only by a surety, and the surety testifies that
he never heard of such person until the morning of the day
when his examination as a witness took place. Neither the
master nor any of the crew are called to explain any of these
inculpatory circumstances, nor is there any attempt to afford
any explanation upon the subject. For these reasons, we are
of the opinion that the finding in the court below was clearly
correct. The decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore,

Tnm SLAVERS. (RmaqDm.)
I. A vessel begun to be fitted, equipped, &c., for the purpose of a slavevoyage, in a port of the United States, then going to a foreign port, in
order evasively to complete the fitting, equipping, &c., and so completing it, and from such port continuing the voyage, is liable to seizure
and condemnation when driven in its subsequent course into a port of
the United States.
2. In libels for the alleged pur ose of violating the acts of Congress prohibiting the trade in slaves, a wide range of evidence is allowed. Positive
proofs can seldom be had; and a condemnation may be made on testimony that is circumstantial only, if the circumstances be sufficiently
numerous and strong, and especially if corrDborated by moral coincidences.

THE SLAVERS. (REINDEER.)

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.
8. Libels in rem may be prosecuted in any district of the United States
where the property is found.

THE bark Reindeer, Cunningham, master, was forced by
stress of weather into Newport, R. I., July 11, 1862, where
the collector of the port immediately placed her in custody
of a revenue officer. On the 1st of August he made a formal
seizure of her for violating the laws relating to the slavetrade. On the 7th of August following, the United States
filed a libel and information in the District Court for Rhode
Island, against the bark, her tackle, cargo, &c., in a case of
seizure and forfeiture, alleging,
F'rst. The fitting and other preparation of the vessel
within, and causing her to sail from, the port of New York,
by a citizen or resident, &c., of the United States, for the
purpose of carrying on a trade in slaves, contrary to the
provisions of the first section of the act of Congress of 22d
March, 1794,* &c.
Second. The employment and making use of the said
vessel by a citizen or persons, &c., residing in the United
States, in the transportation or carrying of slaves, &c., contrary to the provisions of the first section of the act of 10th
May, 1800;t and,
Third. The fitting, &c., of said vessel within, and causing
her to sail from, the port of New York, by a citizen or citizens of the United States, or other person or persons, for
the purpose of procuring negroes, mulattoes, or persons of
color, &c., to be held, sold, or otherwise disposed of as slaves,
&c., contrary to the provisions of the second section of the
act of 20th April, 1818,T &c.
On the 28th of August, 1861, one Gregorio Tejedor, said
to be a Spanish subject, residing at Havana, and alleging
himself to be owner of the cargo and charterer of the bark,
intervened, averring that he was the bond fide owner of the
cargo and charterer of the vessel.
On the 2d of September, 1861, D. M. Coggeshall, sheriff
of the county of Newport, and H. P. Booth, J. E. Ward,
* I Star. at Large, 347.

t 2 Id. 70.

$3 Id. 450.

Dec. 1864.]

THE SLAVERs. (REINDEER.)
Statement of the case.

and Samuel Shephard, alleging themselves to be attaching
creditors of one Pearce of New York, owner of the vessel,
filed a claim and answer, denying the allegation of the libel
that the vessel was a slaver. They also averred that Coggeshall, as sheriff, on the 20th July, 1861, again on the 26th
July, 1861, seized and attached the bark, by virtue of attachments duly issued out of the Supreme Court of Rhode Island; that, by virtue thereof, he then became possessed of
her, and ever since has held, and, by reason thereof, that
this court has no jurisdiction of the vessel, &c. They also
averred that the acts charged were stated to have been done
at New York, and not within the district of Rhode Island,
and therefore denies jurisdiction.
During the progress of the cause, the vice-consul of the
Queen of Spain, at Boston, filed a claim, professing to intervene "for the Government of her Catholic Majesty," and
claiming the bark and cargo as the property of Gregorio
Tejedor, a Spanish citizen. But there was no sufficient evidence that he was authorized to do this by the Government
of Spain, or that the Government participated in the controversy in the court below.
The District Court condemned the vessel, cargo, &c., from
which decree, Coggeshall, sherif, and Booth, Ward, and Shephard, appealed to the Circuit Court. Tejedor also prayed
an appeal, but did not take it.
So far, therefore, as the interests and rights of Tejedor
were concerned, the decree of the District Court was final,
and could not be here disturbed.
The Circuit Court ordered a sale of the vessel, &c., and
cargo; and, on the 20th of January, 1862, the marshal sold
her for $8000, and the cargo for $7766.52.
The Circuit Court heard the case on the appeal of Coggeshall, Ward, Booth, and Shephard, and affirmed the decree
of the District Court, from which decree the said Coggeshall, Ward, Booth, and Shephard appealed to this court.
This case, therefore, came before this court neither on the
claim or appeal of the alleged owner of the vessel, nor on
the claim or appeal of the alleged owner of the cargo, but
VOL. II.

25

THE SLAVERS. (REMLWER.)

[SpCt
[Sup- Ct.

Statement of the case.

on the appeal of persons who had attached-legally or other.
wise-the vessel, &c., and cargo, at Newport, as judgment
creditors of P. L. Pearce, of New York, by virtue of process
of attachment issued out of the Supreme Court of Rhode
Island against Pearce.
The facts on which their claim arose, as derived from a
full and accurate printed statement prepared by Mr. Coffey,
late Assistant Attorney-General, and now special counsel of
the United States in the matter, were essentially as follow:
The bark, then on a voyage somewhere, was forced by weather, as already mentioned, into Newport, July 11th, 1861.
On the 27th of June, 1861, Pearce, of New York, confessed judgment to H. P. Booth, in the Supreme Court, City
and County of New York, for $11,128.56.
On the 19th of July, 1861, after the arrival of the bark at
Newport, Ward, Shephard, and Booth, partners, trading as
Ward & Co., of New York, the appellants in this case, issued
a writ out of the Supreme Court of Rhode Island, at Newport, against Pearce, also of New York, for his arrest, and,
for want of his body, for the attachment of his goods, &c.,
to the value of $500. On the 20th of July, 1861, the sheriff
returned that on that day he had attached the bark and
cargo, the goods and chattels of Pearce. The account for
which this suit was brought was for $300 cash furnished
Captain Cunningham, of bark Reindeer, to pay off .rew, on
13th July, 1861, and $50 cash to Captain Cunningham, on
15th July, 1861, in all $350, advanced after the arrival of the
vessel at Newport. On the third day of August Term, 1861,
the plaintiffs obtained judgment by default for $350 debt,
and costs, taxed at $9.90.
The Reindeer was a vessel of 248 tons, with one deck and
three masts, 100 feet long, 35 feet 3 inches broad, and 11
feet deep. She was owned by Pearce, of New York, and
was commanded by W. H. Cunningham, of the same place.
Pearce was a ship chandler and commission merchant in
New York during the winter of 1860-'61, and had the vessel
stripped, calked, resheathed, and refitted previous to her

Dec. 1864.]

THE SLAVERS. (REINDEER.)
Statement of the case.

departure on a projected voyage. She was also built with a
rider,-an arrangement for laying an extra deck. Pearce
employed J. E. Ward & Co., of New York (the claimants in
this case, by virtue of their attachment of the vessel and
cargo as above stated), to advertise and despatch her. Under
these auspices she cleared and sailed for Havana on the 26th
of January, 1861, where she arrived about the 20th of February following, consigned to Perez & Martinez, of that place.
J. E. Ward & Co. shipped on her to Havana, among other
things, 14,700 lbs. of tasajo, or dried beef, and a box of hardware. Her outward manifest exhibited, besides, twenty-two
packages of hardware.
The shipping articles, signed at iNew York, dated 26th of
January, 1861, described the bark Reindeer as "now bound
from the port of New York to one or more ports in Cuba;
from thence to one or more ports in Europe, if required,and
back to a port of discharge in the United States, or from
Cuba back to the United States." The crew-list appended
showed the captain, two mates, and seven men, of whom
four deserted in Cuba, whose places were there filled. The
captain and the rest of the crew remained all the time with
the vessel, and were on her when she arrived at Newport.
The four sailors shipped in Cuba were shipped "to go a
voyage to Falmouth, from thence to one or more ports of
Europe, and back to a port of discharge in the United States."
Pearce, the owner of the vessel, arrived in Havana about
the middle of March, and remained there until the 6th of
May following.
The history of the vessel at Havana was thus: She laid at
Havana from the 20th of February to the 22d of June, 1861.
One of the consignees, Martinez, stated that Pearce went
there to sell the vessel; that he made a contract to sell her to
Tejedor for $7000, which Tejedor did not carry out; but
that on the 10th of May Tejedor chartered the vessel, by
charter-party, from Perez & Martinez, after Pearce had left
Havana, for the sum of $8500, of which Tejedor paid $4000.
Of this, Martinez testified that $1500 was for detention of
Uie vessel from 23d of March until 10th of May. A charter-

THE SLAVERS. (REINDEER.)

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

party was produced, dated 28d March, 1861, signed by Cap.
tain Cunningham, "on behalf of P. L. Pearce, owner of the
said vessel, and Perez & Martinez, according to instructions
handed to them by said owners," chartering the vessel to Gregorio Tejedor for three years, for which Cunningham acknowledges "to have received this day from Gregorio Tejedor"
$8500, giving Tejedor exclusive disposal of vessel, master,
and crew, and right to place his own supercargo on board,
he to bear all expenses and pay repairs.
On the 22d of June, 1861, the Reindeer cleared at Havana
"for Falmouth, England, and for orders."
Having set sail from Havana on that day, the captain, in
his protest, swore, "that on Tuesday, the 2d day of July,
1861, at sea, in about latitude 810, longitude 69', during a

squall, the ship was caught aback, and, having gained sternway, wrenched the rudder-head and carried away the foreyard, when, finding the ship unfit to perform the voyage,
squared away for Newport, Rhode Island, where we arrived
July 11."
The location of the vessel, as above stated, when the captain was thus compelled to put into Newport, showed her,
according to Maury's Geography of the Sea,* to have been
on the route to the west coast of Africa.
On the day after her arrival at Newport, the captain borrowed of T. & J. Coggeshall $80 to pay the crew; on the
15th July, $60, and on the 18th, $50, for the same purpose;
making a bill, with other advances, of $186.83. The crew
were then discharged, and all disappeared, none of them
being produced as witnesses by claimant, or otherwise accounted for. The captain drew a sight draft on Pearce, to
reimburse T. & J. Coggeshall, which Pearcepaid.
On the arrival of the vessel at Newport, Pearce wrote the
captain (23d July, 1861), directing the bills of lading to be
forwarded to him; and he paid the wages and expenses of
the voyage.
Martinez testified that on her arrival at Havana, 20th of
* Plate VIII.

Dec. 1864.]

TnE SLAvERs. (REIDEER.)
Statement of the case.

February, 1861, all her cargo from New York was delivered.
He also says his house (Perez & Martinez) loaded her afterwards for Tejedor; that everything was put on board with
permits from the custom-house; that he got the permits
himself from the custom-house in every instance; and that
he was on the wharf when the goods were shipped to the
vessel in the, lighter, and saw every package put on board.
The list of cargo taken from the vessel showed a quantity of
articles nQt on the manifest. These were casks of high-colored
paint, pickled fish, coarse salt, two barrels of lime, and four
jars of chloride of lime, cases of medicines, medicinal herbs
and lint, coarse sponges, one demijohn of disinfecting fluid,
sixty-five water-pipes, part full and part empty, which appeared to have been used asfresh-water pipes, and a quantity
of flag matting.
Her manifested cargo was of 117 pipes of rum, 65 half
pipes of rum, 16 pipes of biscuit, 8740 lbs. of tasajo, or dried
beef, a large quantity of which she had brought from New
York, one box of hardware, and 19 packages of the same,
wine, brandy, gin, candles, cigars, and 200 oars. Part of
the cargo consisted of casks and packages of saucepans,
cooking-pans with covers, iron spoons, thirty mess or campkettles, three casks, each containing iron chains from J to I.
of an inch in diameter, of such length that one or two chains
occupied a cask, padlocks, and machats, or war-knives. On
the ship's manifest these were described as "one bale hardware," "nineteen packages hardware."
The marshal of the United States, Sanford, found on
board the vessel, when he seized her at Newport, a package
purporting to be a sealed letter, containing several papers,
among them a paper issued from the custom-house at Havana upon what is called a "sea letter;" a letter used for the
protection of vessels against the examination of a man-ofwar at sea, not to be opened by the captain, but only by an
officer of the customs, or an officer of a man-of-war. This
"sea letter," dated 22d of June, 1861, the day of the bark's
departure from Havana, declared the destination of the Reindeer to be St. Antonio. St. Antonio is an unimportant

TiE

SLAvEIs. (REINDEER.)

Lu. Ct
[Sup.

Argument for the appellant.

island in the Cape de Verd Group, in a line from Havana to
the western coast of Africa. The other papers were customhouse permits for embarking certain articles on the vessel,
one dated 22d of May, and the other 19th of June. Botb
declared her to be bound for St. Antonio, and both were
obtained by Perez & Martinez, who loaded the vessel for
Tejedor.
The manifest of cargo from Havana to Falmouth reported
"two passengers, cabin," Don Pedro Garcia and Don H. A.
Pinto. These persons came with the vessel to Newport.
Garcia had been captain of a coasting vessel in Cuba, and
said that he had been to the coast of Africa after slaves, but
was now a passenger. Pinto first said that he was on board
as supercargo, which he afterwards repeated; but after he
was arrested and put in jail, he denied that he was anything
but a passenger.
Mr. Gillet, for the appellant: We admit that Tejedor, by not
appealing, acquiesced in the decision of the Circuit Court,
and that his claims must be laid out of view on this hearing.
He conceded, so far as the present appellants are concerned,
that the vessel and cargo belonged to Pearce, and was lawfully attached, and that he has no claim upon either.
The questions are, therefore, now between the United
States, claiming through the marshal's seizure under the
libel, and that of the sheriff and creditors upon their prior
seizure under the attachments.
1. We contend upon these that there was no sufficient
evidence to show a fitting out, &c., of the vessel in New
York. Whatever fitting out and clearance there was by any
one for any place, was at Havana by Perez & Martinez for
Tejedor, a Spanish subject, residing at Havana. It is not
even certain that the voyage was for the slave-trade at all.
The history of objects and motives in Cuba is not well
proved. [The counsel here exfoliated and enforced these
views, commenting on and interpreting, as he conceived it,
the evidence.]
2. The vessel and cargo were in possession of the State

Dec. 1864.]

Dec.
TE864.]SLAVERS.

(INDEER'.)

Argument for the Government.

Court of Rhode Island, and that court had a right to retain
the custody. The principle that the court, whose process
first seizes property, cannot be interfered with by another
jurisdiction, was settled by Taylor v. Carryl in this court.*
For this reason there is no jurisdiction.
3. The offence, such as it is, so far as Pearce is concerned,
is charged to have been committed in 1ew York. Yet the
vessel is seized in Rhode Island, where no offence is committed at all, nor is alleged to have been. Jurisdiction fails
here, too.
Mr. Coffey, special counsel of the United States, contra: No
doubt, Havana was the place where most of the fitting out
was done. This, however, was to evade detection. The
voyage was begun in New York. Much of that same
"14,700 pounds of tasajo," or dried beef, that same "box,"
and those same, or very nearly those same "twenty-two
packages of hardware," which were shipped to Havana from
New York, were found on the vessel at Newport, and after
they had been shipped from Havana to some other place;
what other place we shall consider directiy. Further than
that, the same sailors (four excepted), who left New York
January 26, 1861, for Havana, are found on board at Newport (on July 11th), after the voyage to Havana had been
ended, and the vessel at rest there for four months. This
shows the continuity of the voyage.
To ivhat place was this voyage.? Maury's Geography of the
Sea shows that the vessel was in the direct course to Africa
when compelled to put into Newport. The cargo was all
of it suited to the slave-trade. Much of it was scarce suited
to anything else. Machats, or war-knives, innocently described as "hardware;" "sponges," an article used to wash
slaves after being packed under the hatches; "vinegar,"
giVen to them to rinse their mouths; "medicines," for these
poor beings; disinfecting fluids, chloride of lime, mess-ketties, casks of long iron chains, with padlocks, as indicative
* 20 Howard, 683.

%392

892 ~THE
SLAVERS.

(REINDEER.)

[Sp tt
[Sup.

Argument for the Government.

of the purpose of the voyage as manacles or handcuffs
would be, are for the slave-trade specially. How can such
articles be vindicated as a cargo to Falmouth, England, especially as coming from Cuba? Tasajois imported from Buenos
Ayres, and is a food specially for slaves. St. Antonio was
more truly described as a destination, since it was in the
direct line of the true destination; but it was not itself that
destination. St. Antonio is a poor port of the Cape de
Verds; insignificant and insecure at once; a place for which
such a cargo would have been wholly too large, and as much
unsuited. The extent of the repairs show a long voyage.
Garcia and Pinto, though entered as passengers, confessed
that they were not so; though they afterwards tried to lie
themselves out of the confession, when the vessel was seized.
Undoubtedly they were managers of the voyage.
The charter-party was a fraud. The testimony of Martinez brought to sustain it, shows that Tejedor paid $1500
more for the use of the vessel for three years, than Pearce
asked for the whole title; and nearly three times as much
as the vessel brought when sold at Newport. Martinez tes..
tifies that Pearce "made a contract to sell her to Tejedor."
No doubt this was the scheme; but when the vessel was
compelled to put into Rhode Island, and was seized, it be
came plain that this plan would not stand; a sale being a
nearly invariable badge of a slaver voyage. A charter-party
was resorted to, and an attachment by creditors.
It is not worth while to discuss the law of priority between
State and Federal liens; for the marshal of the United
States took the vessel as soon as she entered Newport; and,
2. The attachment, as we have signified, is as much
fraudulent as every other part of the scheme. The case
comes here confessedly on the appeal of the attaching creditors. The attachment was for a sum of $350, and $9.90
costs. Is it to vindicate a right to this sum that an appeal is
taken from the Circuit Court of Rhode Island to this high
tribunal? that counsel are made to wait the "law's delay,"
for half a winter in the Federal metropolis? Will counse]
assert this? Pearce was plainly owner.

Dec. 1864.]

THE SLAVERS. (IREINDEER.)
Opinion of the court.

But if the attachment were not fraudulent, the United
States would have priority; for a forfeiture made absolute
by statute, relates back to the time of the commission of the
offence. This is ancient and settled law.*
It is settled as well, that the district where the seizure is
made has jurisdiction of a proceeding in rem.t
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Rhode Island, in a cause of
seizure and forfeiture.
The libel of information against the bark Reindeer and
her cargo, was filed in the District Court on the seventh day
of August, 1861, and the transcript shows that it contains
twenty counts, founded upon various provisions contained
in the several acts of Congress, prohibiting the slave-trade.
But the material charges to be considered in this investigation are the following:
1. That the vessel was, on the twenty-sixth day of January,
1861, by some -person, being a citizen of the United States,
or residing within the same, for himself or for some other
person, either as master, factor or owner, fitted, equipped,
and prepared within the port of New York, for the purpose
of carrying on trade or traffic in slaves to some foreign
country, or for the purpose of procuring from some foreign
kingdom, place or country, the inhabitants thereof to be
transported to some foreign country, port or place, to be
sold and disposed of as slaves.
2. That the vessel being owned by a citizen of the United
States, was by him at the time aforesaid, for himself -as
owner, fitted, equipped, loaded, and prepared in the port of
New York, for the purpose of procuring negroes, mulattoes,
or persons of color, from some foreign kingdom, place, or
country, to be transported to some other port or place, to be
* Roberts v. Wetherall, 1 Salkeld, 223; S. C., 12 Modern, 92; United
States v. Grundy, 3 Cranch, 838; Gelson v. Hoyt, 3 Wheaton, 246.
t United States v. The Betsy, 4 Cranch, 452.

T.E SLAvERs. (REINDEER.)

[Sup. ot,

Opinion of the court.

held, sold, or otherwise disposed of as slaves, contrary to the
form of the statute in such case made and provided.*
Process was forthwith issued and duly served on the same
day, and on the twenty-eighth day of the same month, Gregorio Tejedor appeared as claimant. Referring to the claim
as exhibited in the record, it will be seen that he averred
under oath that he was the true and bond fide owner of the
cargo and the charterer of the vessel, and the record also
shows that he was allowed to make defence. Claim was
also duly filed by the appellants. They allege in substance
and effect, that the vessel was owned by one Pierre L.
Pearce, and they base their claim to the vessel and cargo
upon the ground that the first-named appellant, as the
sheriff of the county of Newport, held the same, at the time
of the seizure by the marshal, under certain writs of attachment issued in favor of the other appellants against the
owner of the vessel from the State court, and consequently,
they insist that the District Court had no jurisdiction of the
case.
No claim was ever filed by the owner of the vessel or by
any other person in his behalf. Testimony was taken on
both sides in the District Court, and after the hearing, a decree was entered condemning both the vessel and cargo as
forfeited to the United States. Claimant of the cargo and
the present appellants appealed to the Circuit Court of the
United States for that district.
Subsequently, they were heard in the Circuit Court upon
the same evidence, and after the hearing, a decree was entered affirming the decree of the Districi Court. Whereupon,
the claimants under the attachment suits appealed to this
court, and now seek to reverse the decree, upon the ground
that the possession of the sheriff was prior to that of the
marshal, and that such prior possession has the effect to
defeat the jurisdiction of the Federal courts.
I.-I. Parties who have not appealed, are not entitled to
be heard in this court, except in support of the decree in the
* 1 Stat. at Large, 347; 3 Id. 451.

Dec. 1864.]

THE SLAVERS. (REINDEER.)
Opinion of the court.

court below. They cannot ask for a reversal in the appellate court, and consequently the only questions really before
the court are those presented by the appellants as attaching
creditors of the owner of the vessel. Appeal not having
been taken by the claimant of the cargo, he must be understood as having acquiesced in the correctness of the decree
entered by the Circuit Court; and it has already been stated
that the owner of the vessel never made any claim. Remark
should be made, that during the hearing in the District
Court, the Vice-consul of the Queen of Spain, resident at
Boston, professing to intervene "for the Government of her
Catholic Majesty," filed a claim for the vessel and cargo as
the property of Gregorio Tejedor, but it does not appear that
the claim was ever prosecuted, and inasmuch as no appeal
was taken, either to the Circuit Court or to this court, it is
unnecessary to comment further upon that subject.
2. Appellants allege that Pierre L. Pearce, of the city of
New York, was the owner of the vessel, and the proofs fully
sustain the allegation. Proofs also show that the bark was
a vessel of two hundred and forty-eight tons, with one deck
and three masts. Her register shows that she was a hundred
feet in length, and thirty-five feet in breadth, and that she
was eleven feet in depth; and the proofs also show that her
construction and arrangement were well suited for the illegal traffic in which it is alleged she was epgaged. Prior to
the sailing of the vessel, she was placed on the dry-dock and
calked, resheathed, and otherwise repaired and fitted for the
projected voyage. After being fully repaired, she was advertised for a voyage to Havana by James E. Ward & Co.,
shipping and commission merchants, acting as the agents of
the owner. Under these auspices she cleared fr'om the port
of New York, and sailed for Havana, on the twenty-sixth
day of January, 1861, where she arrived on the twentieth
of February following.
Her shipping articles describe the voyage as one from the
port of New York to one or more ports in Cuba, from thence
to one or more ports in Europe, if required, and back to a
port of discharge in the United States. or from Cuba back

THE SLAVERS. (REINDEER.)

[SUP. CL

Opinion of the court.

to the United States. Ship's company, as appears by the
crew-list, consisted of the master, William Hl. Cunningham,
two mates and seven seamen, all of whom were on board at
the time of the seizure, except four of the seamen who deserted in Cuba, and whose places were immediately supplied
by the master. They were shipped for a voyage from
Havana to Falmouth, from thence to one or more ports of
Europe and back to a port of discharge in the United States.
Counsel of the United States contend that the vessel was
evidently fitted, equipped, and otherwise prepared and
caused to sail from the port of New York to Havana, with
the ultimate purpose that she should proceed to the west
coast of Africa to engage in the slave-trade. As supporting
that theory, they refer to the construction and arrangement
of the vessel, and to the fact that the crew were shipped not
for Havana, but for a voyage from New York to one ur
more ports in Cuba, and from thence to one or more ports
in Europe, and back to a port of discharge in the United
States, or from Cuba back to the United States; and they
aiso refer to the repairs put upon the ship, as tending to
show that she was intended for a long voyage.
Reference is also made to the fact that the owner, although
in the shipping business himself, employed J. E. Ward &
Co. to put the vessel up, and also to the fact that they advertised and despatched her as his agents. They shipped
part of the cargo, and the manifest shows that their shipment
included one box and twenty-two packages of hardware, and
fourteen thousand seven hundred pounds of tasajo, or dried
beef, which it is proved comes from Buenos Ayres, and is
not an article of shipment from New York to Havana, but
is an article imported into Cuba from South America, and
is largely used for feeding negroes.
The vessel laid at Havana over four months before she
received her cargo. She was consigned to the house of
Perez & Martinez, and the latter testifies that all her cargo
from New York was duly unladen and delivered. During
all that time the master and the crew remained on board,
Irawing full wages, except the four who deserted, and their

Dec. 1864.]

THE SLAVErs. (REINDnnR.)
Opinion of the court.

places were immediately supplied. Pearce, the owner of the
vessel, arrived at Havana on the fifth of March, 1861, and
the proofs show that he remained there until the sixth day
Of May following.
3. Theory of the claimant of the cargo in the court below,
was that the owner went there to sell the vessel, and that he
actually made a contract to sell her to the claimant fbr the
sum of seven thousand dollars, which was not carried into
effect; that the claimant failing to make the purchase, subsequently chartered the vessel for the term of three years,
for the sum of eight thousand five hundred dollars. He
produced a charter-party, which is to that effect, bearing date
on the twenty-third day of March, 1861, executed while the
vessel was laying at Havana.
Expenses for repairs, wages of the master and crew, and
expenses for provisions and all other expenses, were to be
borne by the charterer, but there was no change in the
shipping articles, or in the crew-list, or in any of the ship's
papers. On the contrary, the voyage went on as it was begun at New York, and the same officers and crew remained
on board till the vessel was seized as hereinafter explained.
One of the consignees of the vessel testifies that his firm,
Perez & Martinez, afterwards loaded the vessel for the
alleged charterer, and he states that the entire cargo was
put on board under permits from the custom-house, but the
list of the cargo taken from the vessel, shows that a large
quantity of articles, specially suited to the slave-trade, were
not on the manifest, and consequently it is highly improbable that they were put on board under the sanction of public
authority.
Articles not on the manifest embrace sixty-five water-pipes,
casks of high-colored paint, pickled fish, coarse salt, two barrels of lime, four jars of chloride of lime, cases of medicines,
medicinal herbs and lint, coarse sponges, and one demijohn
of disinfecting fluid. Her manifested cargo, also, is of the
same criminating character. Among the articles are, one
nundred and seventeen pipes of rum, and sixty-five half
pipes, sisreen pipes of biscuit, eight thousand seven hundred

THE SLAVERS. (REINDEER.)

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and forty pounds of tasajo, and one bale and nineteen packages of hardware, besides wine, brandy, gin, and two hundred oars. Part of the cargo, innocently described in the
manifest as hardware, consisted of saucepans, cooking-pans,
casks containing iron chains, padlocks, and war-knives.
All of these articles are proved to be used in the slavetrade, and it is difficult to resist the conclusion, that they
were all exported from the port of New York.
On the 22d day of June, 1861, the vessel cleared at Havana for Falmouth, England, and for orders. Protest of the
master, dated at Newport, R. I., on the 12th day of July,
1861, states, "that on Tuesday, the second day of that mouth,
at sea, in about latitude thirty one degrees, longitude sixtynine degrees, during a squall, the ship was caught aback,
and having gained sternway, wrenched the rudderhead and
carried away the foreyard, when, finding the ship unfit to
perform the voyage, squared away for Newport," where the
vessel arrived on the eleventh of the same month.
Suggestion on the part of the United States is, that the
location of the vessel, -'s described in the protest at the time
when she was obliged to abandon the voyage and sail for a
port of refuge, shows that she was on the direct route to the
coast of Africa; and it must be admitted that there is great
force in the suggestion.
4. Libellants deny that the charter is a bond fide instrument, and as showing that it cannot be so regarded, they
refer to the fact that the alleged charterer agreed to give
fifteen hundred dollars more for the charter than the owner
asked for a full title of the vessel. Theory of the libellants
is that the whole transaction is a simulated one, and that the
charter was manufactured to conceal the real fact that the
owner had sent his vessel to Havana for the purpose of completing her fitment for the contemplated slave-trading voyage. They insist that his original design was to set up the
theory of a sale, but that he was obliged to abandon that
theory, lest he should destroy the claim of the appellants
under their attachments.
Support to the theory that the charter-party is not a boni

Dec. 1864.]

Dec.
THE864.]
SLAVERS. (REINDEER.)
Opinion of the court.

fide instrument is certainly derived from the evidence in the
case, that fourteen packages of stores for the vessel were
shipped at New York, on the 10th of May, 1861, by the
order of the owner, and consigned to the master. None of
the packages were manifested, and the directions were that
they should not be, and they were not landed at Havana, but
were transhipped directly on board the Reindeer. Strong
confirmation of that theory is also derived from the subsequent conduct of the owner after the seizure of the vessel.
Irrespective of any or all previous theories, he at once, on
the airival of the vessel at Newport, assumed to treat the
vessel and cargo and the whole enterprise as his own, as
appears by his letter to the master, and by his conduct in
the payment of the wages and expenses of the voyage.
When the vessel was seized, there was found on board by
the marshal a sealed package, containing what is called by
the witnesses a sea letter. Such a letter is designed, as represented by one of the witnesses, for the protection of the
vessel in case she should be boarded by an officer of the
customs, or an officer of a man-of-war. This sea letter was
dated the 22d day of June, 1861, and stated that the destination of the vessel was not to Falmouth but to St. Antonio,
one of the Cape de Verd islands, and the custom-house
permits found on board contained the same representation.
On the other hand, the voyage in the manifest is described
as one from Havana to Falmouth, and it reports two "passengers, cabin, Pedro Garcia and Hato A. Pinto." They
were on board the vessel at the time of the seizure, and the
one first named admitted that he had once been to the coast
3f Africa for slaves, but insisted that he was a mere passenger. Pinto at first admitted that he was supercargo; but
afterwards, when he was arrested, denied that he was anything but a passenger. Neither of these persons was produced as a witness by the claimants, and no satisfactory explanation is given why they were not called.
Claimants not only failed to call either of the supposed
passengers who were on board, but they have neglected to
call the master or any one of the crew, and the evidence

THE SLAVERS. (REINmDE.)

[Sup. t

Opinion of the court.

shows that the master has absconded. They have intro.
duced no one who knew what the real destination of the
vessel was except one of the consignees, and his testimony
is unsatisfactory, and, in many respects, utterly incredible.
5. Unusual as was the conduct of the owner of the vessel,
in omitting to present any claim for the same, it was eve.
more so in the course adopted by him to enable the attaching creditors to obtain judgment against him for a debt
contracted only four days before he was sued. On the day
after the arrival of the vessel, the master borrowed thirty
dollars of Messrs. T. & J. Coggeshall to pay the crew; and
on the fifteenth of July following, he borrowed of the same
parties the sum of eighty dollars; and on the eighteenth o1
the same month the further sum of fifty dollars for the same
purpose. He paid the crew, and they were discharged; and
thereupon he drew a sight-draft on the owner to reimburse
the lenders, and the amount was promptly paid. Attaching
'reditors, James E. Ward & Co., sued out a writ of attachment against the owner of the vessel, on the 19th day of
July, 1861, alleging the damages in the sum of five hundred
dollars; but the amount for which the suit was brought is
only for the sum of three hundred and fifty dollars, and
consists of two items, one dated July the thirteenth, and the
other July the fifteenth, and both are for cash advanced to
the master of the vessel to pay off the crew.
Plaintiffs in that suit, it will be remembered, were the
agents of the owner in putting up and despatching the vessel at the inception of the voyage, and they were the shippers of the hardware and the tasajo, as appears by the manifest. IReturn was made upon the attachment suit on the
20th day of July, 1861, and the proofs show that the defendant in the suit refused to allow counsel to continue the
case, and consented that the plaintiffs should have judgment. Taken as a whole, the circumstances attending that
suit and its prosecution afford strong grounds to infer that
the purpose of the suit was to furnish the means of defeating the jurisdiction of the District Court.
Both the District and the Circuit Courts were of the

Dec. 1864.]

Dec.
TE864.]
SLAVERS.

(REINDEER.)

Opinion of the court.

opinion, that the facts and circumstances to which reference
has been made afford a clear presumption that the allegations of the libel are true, and in that view of the case we
entirely concur. "Doubt cannot be entertained that the evidence of guilty purpose, from the inception of the voyage
to the time when the vessel was compelled by stress of weather to sail for Newport, is abundantly sufficient to overcome
every presumption of innocence to which any such voyage
can be entitled, and to establish the truth of the charges
under consideration as contained in the libel.
Suits of this description necessarily give rise to a wide range
of investigation, for the reason, that the purpose of the voyage is directly involved in the issue. Experience shows that
positive proof in such cases is not generally to be expected,
and for that reason among others the law allows a resort to
circumstances as the means of ascertaining the truth. Circumstances altogether inconclusive, if separately considered,
may, by their number and joint operation, especially when
corroborated by moral coincidences, be sufficient to constitute conclusive proof. Applying that rule to the present
case, we have no hesitation in coming to the conclusion that
the finding in the court below was correct.
]I. Appellants contend, in the second place, that the District Court had no jurisdiction of the case. 1. Because the
vessel and cargo, as they insist, were in the custody of an
officer of a State court at the time the monition was served
by the marshal. 2. Because the wrongful acts, if committed
at all, were committed in the District of New York, and not
in the district where the libel was filed.
Three answers are made by the United States to the first
objection to the jurisdiction of the court.
First. They deny the fact, that either the vessel or cargo
was ever in the exclusive possession of the officer of the
State court.
Secondly. They insist that the attachment suit was a
collusive one between the appellants and the owner of the
vessel, and that the same was only prosecuted as the means
of defeating the jurisdiction of the Federal courts.
VOL. I1

26

Tim SLAVERS. (REIN DER.)

L;SuP. ot

Opinion of the court.

Thirdly. They contend that the possession of the sheriff
under civil process from a State court, as supposed by the
appellants, will not prevent the operation of the laws of the
United States in suits of forfeiture, or oust the admiralty
jurisdiction of the Federal courts in a case like the present,
where the forfeiture is made absolute by statute, because in
such a case the forfeiture relates back to the time of the
commission of the wrongful acts, and takes date therefrom,
and not from the date of the decree.
1. Undoubtedly it was decided by this court in the case
of Taylor et al. v. Carryl,* that where a vessel had been
seized under a process of foreign attachment issuing from a
State court, the marshal, under process from the admiralty,
issued from the District Court of the United States, in a libel
for seamen's wages, could not take the property out of the
custody of the sheriff; but in that case the sheriff had the
prior and exclusive possession of the property.
The undisputed facts, however, in this case are otherwise.
Immediately on the arrival of the vessel at Newport the collector placed a custom-house officer on board of her, and
that officer was in the actual possession of the vessel and
cargo when the attachment was made. Both vessel and
cargo were then in the custody of the United States, and so
in fact remained until the same were sold by the marshal by
the order of the Circuit Court. Byorder of the district
attorney, the collector, some days before the libel was filed,
made a formal seizure of the vessel for a violation of the
slave-trade acts; and at that time the revenue officer who
had taken possession of the vessel before she was attached,
still had her in custody, and he remained in possession of
her until the sale, when the proceeds were paid into the
registry of the court. Under these circumstances it is clear,
we think, that the case of Taylor et al. v. Carryl does not
apply, and that the seizure was rightfully made.
2. Our conclusion also is, from the evidence, that the suit
of the appellants was a collusive one; and upon that ground,
* 20 Howard, 583.

Dec. 1864.]

ALBANY BRIDGE CAsE.
Statement of the case.

also we are inclined to hold that the objection-of the appellants must be overruled. Having come to that conclusion,
it is unnecessary to examine the third answer presented by
the United States to this objection.
III. Remaining objection of the appellants to the jurisdiction is, that the wrongful acts, if any, were committed out of
the district where the libel was filed. But there is no merit
in the objection, as the rule is well settled, that libels in rem
may be prosecuted in any district where the property is
found. Such was the rule laid down by this court in the
case of The -PropellerCommerce;* and it is clear, beyond controversy, that the present case is governed by the rule there
laid down.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore
AFFIRMED.
ALBANY BRIDGE CASE.
COLEMAN filed a bill in equity in the Circuit Court for the
Northern District of NewYork, to enjoin the Hudson River
Bridge Company from building a bridge over the Hudson
River at Albany, under an authority which had been granted
by the Legislature of the State of New York. The Circuit
Court dismissed the bill. On appeal here the whole matteras well the general question of the constitutional right of
a State to pass a law authorizing the erection of bridges
over navigable rivers of the United States, as the more special question, whether the navigation of the Hudson would
be practically obstructed by this bridge, as it was proposed
to erect the same-was fully and most ably argued by Mr.
Secretary of State Seward, and the Honorable Mr. 3". . L.
Pruyn, 31 C., in favor of the right to build, and by Messrs. Carlisle and Senator 1Reverdy Johnson, contra. But the court being
equally divided, no opinion on any point was given, and the
decree so stood a

DEoREE AFFIRMED OF NECESSITY.t
" 1 Black, 581.
For the nature and effect of a decree of this sort, see Krebbs v. Carlisle
Bank, 2 Wallace, Jr. 49, note.

