SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. v. UNITED STATES.

447

Syllabus.

189 U. S.

number should pay a full return. The only ground for such a
claim is the statute taken strictly according to its letter.
But when a case is brought here on a constitutional ground
which wholly fails, we certainly shall not be astute to support
it upon another which we could not consider apart from the
failing foundation, and which has nothing to commend it but
the letter of the law. The statute of California no doubt was
contemplating the case of waterworks fully occupied within
the area which they intended to supply. It hardly can have
meant that a system constructed for six thousand acres should
have a full return upon its value from five hundred, if those
were all that it supplied. At all events we will not be the
first to say so. If necessary to avoid that result we should assume that only a proportionate part of the system was actually
used and useful within the meaning of the statute. Upon the
whole case we are unable to say that the Circuit Court should
have declared the rates confiscatory. They are the rates which
were fixed by the original company at the start, with prophecies, which the purchasers who believed them think amounted
to a contract, that they never would be higher. If the original
company embarked upon a great' speculation which has not
turned out as expected, more modest valuations are a result to
which it must make up its mind.
.Decree affirmed.

SOUTHERN

PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY
UNITED STATES.

APPEAL FROM THE' CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

v.

FOR THE NINTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 190. Argued March 9, 10, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.

Under the act of March 3, 1871, c. 122, 16 Stat. 573, the rights of the
Southern Pacific Railroad Company were subordinate to those of the
Texas Pacific Railroad Company. When the Texas Pacific grant was

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

declared forfeited by the act of February 28, 1885, the forfeiture did not
vest the Southern Pacific with the lands forfeited but the forfeiture
enured to the benefit of the United States.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Xi%. .3faxwell Evarts and Xr.L.E. Payson for appellants.
.Mr.
Sypecial Attorney Joseph, HT Call for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMEs

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill to quiet title brought by the United States
against the plaintiff in error. It comes here by appeal from a
decree of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals, 109 Fed.
Rep. 913, affirming a decree of the Circuit Court, 94 Fed. Rep.
427, in favor of the United States. The United States claims
under forfeiture of a grant made to the Texas Pacific Railroad
Company in its charter, and the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company under words in the same charter which are construed
to make an incidental grant to it. The principal land in controversy is land within the place limits of the Southern Pacific
under the said grant and within the twenty mile limit of the
Texas Pacific, being land situated where the road of the former
company and the contemplated track of the Texas Pacific met
at Yuma on the Colorado River in the southeastern corner of
California. The United States contends that this land was excepted from the Southern Pacific grant.
The charter is the act of March 3, 1871, c. 122, 16 Stat. 573.
By § 9 it grants to the Texas Pacific by words in the present
tense " ten alternate sections of land per mile on each side of
said railroad in California, where the same shall not have been
sold, reserved, or otherwise disposed of by the United States,"
etc. By § 12, "said company, within two years after the passage of this act, shall designate the general route of its said
road, as near as may be, and shall file a map of the same in the
Department of the Interior; and when the map is so filed, the
Secretary of the Interior, immediately thereafter, shall cause
the lands within forty miles on each side of said designated

SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. -R. v. UNITED STATES.
189 U. S.

449

Opinion of the Court.

route within the Territories, and twenty miles within the State
of California, to be withdrawn from preemption, private entry,
and sale." The Texas Pacific filed its map of general route in
August, 1871, and in October, 1871, the Secretary of the Interior withdrew the odd sections according to the statute, including the land in question.
By § 23 of this same charter, for the purpose of connecting
the Texas Pacific Railroad with San Francisco, the Southern
Pacific was authorized to construct a line to the Texas Pacific
road at or near the Colorado River, " with the same rights,
grants, and privileges, and subject to the same limitations," etc.,
as in the act of July 27, 1866, " Provided, however, That this
section shall in no way affect or impair the rights, present or
prospective, of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company or
any other railroad company." It was decided in United States
v. Colton Marble and Lime Co., 146 U. S. 615, that this proviso
excluded the indemnity lands of the Atlantic and Pacific road
and that the Southern Pacific took nothing in them, even after
a forfeiture of the Atlantic and Pacific grant. But it is said
that the Atlantic and Pacific had filed a definite location,
and it is contended on several grounds that there is not a similar exception in this case.
In the first place, it is denied that the Texas Pacific is included under the words last quoted: "or any other railroad
company." But we think it too plain for extended argument
that it is included by those words. It was called into being
and was an "other railroad" at the moment when the proviso
took effect. In fact, it was'the only other railroad, so far as
has been suggested to us, to which the words could apply. It
received a grant for its main line, while that to the Southern
Pacific was for a branch. By the contemplated junction of the
latter with the former there would arise a conflict for which
it was proper to provide, and natural to provide as the statute
did.
Next it is said that the Texas Pacific had no prospective
rights at the moment when the act was passed, and that is
said to be the moment when her priorities were fixed. We cannot take the words of the proviso so narrowly. The Atlantic
voL. Cexxxix-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

and Pacific had not fixed its definite location when the act was
passed, and yet in the decision which we have cited its indemnity lands were held excepted from the Southern Pacific grant.
See United States v. Sout/e'n ] ac~iof R. R., 146 U. S.570,
573; Southern Pacific Raiload v. United States, 183 U. S.
519, 522. As to the phrase "prospective rights," no doubt it
is inartificial. The adjective changes the very nature of the
substantive. A prospective right is not yet a right. It is only
an expectation having a certain intensity of reasonableness.
But it is plain, for instance, that when the lands were withdrawn along the general route of the Texas Pacific under § 12,
that road had a prospective right to the whole of its place
lands which the Southern Pacific could not affect by anything
which it might do later. The statute is not governed by the
ordinary rule as to contemporaneous grants. The Southern
Pacific was not intended or allowed to interfere with what the
Texas Pacific might take.
The strength of the appellant's case is in a somewhat attenuated line of reasoning. The Texas Pacific act refers to the act
of July 27, 1866, for the rights conferred on the Southern Pacific. c. 278, 14 Stat. 292. The last mentioned statute is an
act incorporating the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company.
By § 18 the Southern Pacific is authorized to connect with the
Atlantic and Pacific and is to have similar grants of land with
that company. By § 6 there is a provision for the withdrawal
of lands along the general route of the Atlantic and Pacific
somewhat like that which has been mentioned as contained in
§ 12 of the Texas Pacific charter. It may be argued that it is
implied by § 18 of the Atlantic and Pacific charter that there
is to be a similar withdrawal of the land there granted to the
Southern Pacific, and that this implied provision is carried over
by a further implication to the grant to the Southern Pacific
in § 23 of the Texas Pacific charter. The Southern Pacific
filed the location of its general route in April, 1871, before the
filing by the Texas Pacific, and as the grant to the Texas
Pacific by § 9 was only of lands not sold, reserved or otherwise
disposed of by the United States, it may be said that the Southern Pacific has got a preference, much as the Texas ]Pacific

SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. v. UNI'ED STATES.
189 U. S.

451

Opinion of the Court.

would have got one had the Southern Pacific done nothing before the Texas Pacific filed the location of its general route.
It must be admitted that if this argument is correct in its
premises it puts a good deal of a strain on the proviso in favor
of the prospective rights of the Texas Pacific. For at the time
when the Southern Pacific filed the location of its general route
the prospective rights of the Texas Pacific were not determined
otherwise than by its incorporation and the indications and
promises in its charter. Nevertheless we are of opinion that
the argument cannot prevail. It is only by a stretch that the
provision for withdrawal of lands along the general route of
the Atlantic and Pacific could be extended to the grant to the
Southern Pacific in the Texas Pacific charter, and if it be so
extended it is such a remote and probably unconsidered consequence of a reference to a reference that it cannot be allowed
to outweigh the plain intent of the proviso in § 23, reinforced
by the express arrangement for withdrawal in favor of the
Texas Pacific in § 9. Assuming that proviso to refer to the
Texas Pacific, it indicates a plain intent to except from the grant
to the Southern Pacific the land that in the natural course of
events would be covered by the location of the former road.
The conflict of interests naturally would be limited to the point
of connection at Yuma. There might be no other. As to that
land, the plain object of the proviso was to avoid a race of diligence by giving priority to the main line of the chartered road
over the connecting branch. Our decision is in accord with
the settled construction and practice in the Department of the
Interior following a ruling of the late Mr. Justice Lamar when
Secretary of the Interior. Texas PaciicRailroadand Southern
Pacific Railroad, 4 L. D. 215.
The Texas Pacific grant was declared forfeited by the act of
February 28, 1885, c. 265, 23 Stat. 337, and this forfeiture enured
to the benefit of the United States. United States v. Southern
Paifie Railroad,146 U. S. 570. It is argued further, however, that if the Southern Pacific did not get the lands in question under its primary grant, it may take a part of them as indemnity lands. It is said that the company has a right to take
them for that purpose if the status of the lands at the time of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

selection permits it. Ryan v. Railroad Co., 99 U. S. 382.
That contention seems to be disposed of by Southern Pacific
Railroadv. United States, 168 U. S. 1, 47, 66, and the practice
of the Land Department for many years has been inconsistent
with it. Southern Pacific Railroad v. _Moore, 11 L. D. 534;
.Moore v. Xellogg, 17 L. D. 391; S7mead v. Southern Pacific
Railroad,29 L. D. 135. When it is decided that the company
got no title to the land within its twenty mile limit, it would
be contrary to the intimations of the cases to allow it to take
the adjoining strip outside under a claim of indemnity. See
Bardon v. Northern Pacific Railroad, 145 U. S. 535, 545 ;
Clark v. Herington, 186 U. S. 206. It is not clear that the
language of the statute does not forbid it. The indemnity to
the Atlantic and Pacific, by § 3 of its charter adopted for the
Southern Pacific by § 18, is to be other lands "in alternate sections, and designated by odd numbers, not more than ten miles
beyond the limits of said alternate sections, and not including
the reserved numbers." It might be argued that the last quoted
words dispose of the matter. Without going into further reasons for our decision, we are of opinion that the decree appealed
from was right. We deal only with the questions argued in
this court.
-Decreeaffirmed.
MR. JusricE BREWER and
the decision of this case.

AIR. JusTIcE DAY took no part in

