FIDELITY CO. v. BUCKI CO.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

FIDELITY AND DEPOSIT COMPANY v. L. BUCKI &
SON LUMBER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 220. Argued March 20, 1903.-Decided April 6,1903.
Where it has been declared by the highest court of a State that liability for
counsel fees is a part of the obligation assumed by the obligor in an attachment bond, such liability should be enforced in every court id which an
action on such bond is brought. Where a liability can be enforced in the
state court in which an action is originally brought that liability cannot
be taken away by removing the case to a Federal court.
Where as the result of an attachment against a lumber conipany there was
an interruption of business for a certain time, and the plaintiff in the
action thereafter refused to deliver materials to the lumber company, the
sureties on the attachment bond are liable for the damages directly attributable to attachment, but not for any of the damages caused by the
plaintiff's failure to deliver materials or for the reflection on the credit of
the lumber company by the bringing of the action in which the attached
bond was given.
A postponement or continuance is largely within the discretion of the court,
and unless such discretion is shown to have been abused there is no
ground for reversal in a refusal to postpone.

ON October 1, 1897, the Atlantic Lumber Company
commenced two actions at law in the Circuit Court of
Duval County, Florida, against The L. Bucki & Son Lumber
Company. In each of these actions a writ of attachment was
issued, The Fidelity and Deposit Company of Maryland being
the surety on the attachment bonds. Both of the attachments
were dissolved. Soon after such dissolution the Bucki Company brought the present action against The Fidelity Company
upon the attachment bonds. The action was commenced in
the Circuit Court of Duval County, Florida, but subsequently
removed to the United States Circuit Court for the Southern
District of Florida. On a trial in that court the Bucki Company obtained a judgment which by the Court of Appeals of
the Fifth Circuit was modified, and as modified affirmed. 109

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

Fed. Rep. 393 ; 48 C C. A. 436. Subsequently thereto each
of the parties obtained a writ of certiorari from this court.
184 U. S. 698.
b. ]?ielard H. Liggett for The Fidelity and Deposit ComX% Vinfield Liggett was with him on the brief.
pany.
.3l. 1. Bisbee for The L. Bucki & Son Lumber Company.
ilr. George 0. Bedell was with him on the brief.
Aa. JTIsTioE BREWER,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The principal question arises in the claim to recover counsel
fees incurred in securing the dissolution of the attachments.
The reasonable value of such fees was specially found by the
jury to have been $7500. The Circuit Court refused to include
this in its judgment, but the Court of Appeals ruled otherwise,
and ordered judgment for that sum in addition to the amount
of the general verdict.
By the law of Florida counsel fees incurred in securing the
dissolution of an attachment are recoverable in actions upon
attachment bonds. This was distinctly ruled in Gonzales v.
.De Funiakc Havana Tobacco Company, 41 Florida, 471, in
which the second headnote recites that "attorney's fees and
other expenses incurred in relation to the attachment, or in
procuring its dissolution, are properly allowed as elements of
damage in actions upon attachment bonds." And this is conclusive, for by McClellan's Dig. 345, see. 21, it is provided that
"the judges of the Supreme Court of this State shall, in deciding cases, prepare and make a syllabus or statement of the
points and principles intended to be decided by the court, which
shall be published in the reports in lieu of that usually prepared
by the reporter." Hart, Ex., et al. v. Sthibling et ux., 25 Florida, 435. It is true, as contended by counsel, that the case in
41 Florida was not decided until after the bonds sued on in this
case had been executed, but the decision declares the law of the
State, and that, in the absence of statutes affecting the ques-

FIDELITY CO. v. BUCKI CO.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion, must be taken to have been always the law. And in its
opinion the court refers as authority, among other cases, to
TW Uich v. O'Neal, 22 Florida, 592, 599, (decided in 1886,) in
which it was held that "in a suit on the bond given to obtain
a temporary injunction, counsel fees incurred by the defendant
in the suit to dissolve such injunction are damages that maybe
recovered if covered by language of the bond." In the opinion
in that case the court, while conceding that other appellate
courts had ruled differently, (among them this court in Oel'ichs
v. 81pain, 15 Wall. 211,) declined to follow such ruling, and
said:
"It seems just and right that where a party asks the interposition of the power of the courts, in advance of a trial of the
merits of the cause, to deprive the defendant of some right or
privilege claimed by him, even though temporarily, that if on
investigation it is found that the plaintiff had no just right either
in the law or the facts to justify him in asking and obtaining
from the court such a harsh and drastic exercise of its authority,
he should indemnify the defendant in the language of his bond
for 'all damages he might sustain,' and that Peasonablecounsel
fees necessary to the recovering of such injunction are properly
a part of his damage."
The promise in the bonds sued on here is like that referred
to in the language just quoted, and was "to pay all costs and
damages which the said L. Bucki Lumber Company may sustain in consequence of it, the said Atlantic Company's improperly suing out said attachment." Liability for these counsel
fees being, as declared by its highest court, a part of the obligation assumed by the obligor in an attachment bond given in
the courts of Florida, should be enforced in every court in which
an action on such a bond is brought. This action was cornmenced in a Circuit Court of the State, and if it had proceeded
there to judgment unquestionably a liability for counsel fees
would have been sustained, and it cannot be that by removing
the case to the Federal court such liability has been taken away.
In Tullock v. _fulvane, 1841 U. S. 49T, 505, we held that when
a bond had been given in a case pending in the Federal court
and an action was thereafter brought in the state court on such

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

bond, the rule of liability was that existing in the Federal court
in which the bond was given, and said:
"It is clear that if it be true that the bond given in a Federal
court of equity on the granting of an injunction is not to be construed with reference to the rules of law applicable to such
bonds in such court, then there can be no certain general rule
by which to determine the liability of the obligors upon the
bond. Their responsibility would be one thing in a court of
the United States and a different thing in the courts of the various States, which would imply that the parties did not contract with reference to any definite rule of liability." See also
Xfissouri, Kansas &c. Railway Comnpay v. Elliott, 184: U. S.
530.
In reference to the other alleged errors, the Court of Appeals, without referring to them in particular, said, "on the
fullest consideration of the whole case we conclude that the
record presents no error on the part of the trial judge for which
the judgment should be reversed."
We do not wonder at this observation of the Court of Appeals, as we find from the record that the plaintiff filed in
that court thirty-seven assignments of error covering seventeen
printed pages, and the defendant thirty-nine such assignments.
It may be true, as the Scriptures have it, that "in the multitude
of counsellors there is safety," but it is also true that in a multitude of assignments of error there is danger.
Perhaps it is well to first briefly outline the case and the
testimony. 'Prior to October, 1897, the Atlantic Company had
under contract been engaged in furnishing the Bucki Company
with logs with which to operate its sawmills, at the rate of
2,000,000 feet per month. It canceled its contract on account
of an alleged breach of the Bucki Company and brought the
two actions at law, one for $200,000 damages, resulting from
such breach, and the other for $9980.80, claimed to be due for
logs delivered, and in these actions sued out the two attachments. They were levied upon the mill plant, the logs, lumber,
and all other personal property of the Bucki Company. While
the personal property was taken into possession by the sheriff,
the mill was a fixture, a part of the realty, and the writs did

FIDELITY CO. v. BUCKI CO.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not operate to dispossess the Bucki Company therefrom, but
simply established a lien upon it. By forthcoming bonds the
personal property was, after a few days, released, and subsequently the attachments were dissolved. On the trial the plaintiff was permitted to show the extent of its mill plant, the
amount of business it had been doing in prior years, the net
profits of such business during the nine or ten months preceding the levy of the attachments, the orders and contracts which
it had on hand for timber and lumber, an alleged increase in
the price of timber in the year succeeding the levy; there was
testimony bearing upon the question of its ability to get logs elsewhere, the means of transporting them to its plant, and the
existence of negotations for a loan of money secured by the
material it then had on hand. There was evidence also tending to show the financial condition of the company, its default
in certain payments and efforts it made to utilize its property
subsequently to the attachments. After all the testimony had
been presented the defendant made a motion in writing to exclude a number of items thereof from the consideration of the
jury, upon which motion the court ruled as follows:
"This cause coming on to be heard on a motion of the defendant's attorney to exclude certain testimony from the jury, and
it being considered that under the testimony introduced, any
damages arising from the consideration of injury to credit or
loss of profits would be too remote, uncertain and speculative,
it is therefore ordered that this motion be granted as to the
testimony relating to the cost of manufacturing lumber and the
supply of timber lands; all testimony to the damage to credit,
loss of profits and all evidence relative to the market prices of
lumber subsequent to the attachment. That in regard to the
profits plaintiff's mill bad been making prior to October 1, 1897,
be retained and considered only for the purpose of determining
the actual damages suffered during the time the operation of
the mill was suspended on account of the attachment and the
motion be denied in all other respects."
And in making this ruling it said:
"This order is made at this time only for the purpose of confining the argument to the jury upon these lines. I am fully

OCTOBER TERr, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

satisfied in my own mind that damages from the loss of profits
arising from the subsequent or future business which might
possibly have been carried on is under the evidence too remote
and speculative for the testimony to go to the jury. Some
courts have held that every fact should go to the jury to be
considered, but the United States courts have uniformly held
that where the testimony is such that any reasonable, man, or
any reasonable court could view it in but one light, the court
may exclude it from the jury. In this matter I have admitted
the testimony, but I fail to find that there is such evidence of
damage from loss of future profits as should go to the jury. If
there was no combination of circumstances other than the attachment; had a third party come in and levied an attachment
and stopped the business, and there had been no suspension save
by the attachment, then there might have been such testimony
as would prove a loss of profits; but in this case the particular
circumstances, the suspension of the contract for the delivery
of logs and the bringing of the two common law suits, so
changed the circumstances that there is no certainty that there
could have been any profit.
"Every author of authority referred to, even by the plaintiff's
attorney, says there must be some certainty.
"Now the certainty of profits here depends upon this: It is
claimed that on account of these attachments the plaintiff's
credit was injured; that had it not been for the attachments,
money could have been borrowed, timber land or stumpage
could have been procured, logs could have been procured profitably; if logs could have been procured profitably, lumber could
have been manufactured and marketed profitably. Now, between the borrowing of the money and the marketing of the
lumber there are so many uncertainties that the court cannot
say that there is sufficient to justify the jury in finding perhaps
large damages against the defendant in this case on account of
loss of credit and profit-fromn the levying of the attachments."
The plaintiff excepted on the ground of an invasion of the
province of the jury, and because it was, as it alleged, misled
by the rulings of the court in admitting such testimony, and
therefore failed to introduce other testimony which it claimed

FIDELITY CO. v. BUCKI CO.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to possess and which upon another theory would have tended
to show the damages it had sustained. Because it was so misled it also filed a motion to discharge the jury and postpone the
trial of the case, which motion was denied and the case submitted to the jury. M any instructions were asked by counsel
on both sides looking to the question of damages and exceptions
were taken to the refusal of the court to give those instructions.
In its general charge the court said:
"The only question is a clear-cut question; it is how much
damages did the Bucki Company suffer. This question becomes more difficult by reason of facts and circumstances attending the writs of attachment. At the time the writs of
attachment were levied there were two common law suits commenced, both of which have been terminated. That is one attending circumstance. The other is that the Atlantic Lumber
Company cancelled its contract or considered it cancelled.
That is, the Atlantic Company refused and ceased to deliver
any more logs to the Bucki Company. So that the three combining circumstances, the levy of the writs of attachment, the
ceasing to furnish logs and the common law suits unite in being
the cause for subsequent suffering of damage by the Bucki
Company.
"But in this case the attachment did not cause the stoppage
of the furnishing of logs, nor did the issuing of the attachment
cause the institution of the common law suits.
"I have therefore, as you have seen in the course of the case,
granted a motion to exclude from your consideration all testimony as to damages for loss of credit and all testimony as to
all profits the Bucki Company might have made in the future
in procuring capital, in procuring lands, in procuring logging
plants and procuring logs, at a profit, and so manufacturing
lumber therefrom at a profit.
"I therefore instruct you gentlemen that the damage must
be confined to the damages suffered by the detention of the
mill for the time being; those damages that have arisen by the

OCTOBER TERIM,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

detention of and taking the mill properties from the possession
of the plaintiff."
Without further quotations, enough appears to show the
general scope of the rulings of the court in reference to the
measure of damages, and even conceding that its action, as said
by the Court of Appeals, "is, in several particulars, subject to
the criticism which is levelled at it by some of the other numerous assignments of error," we are of opinion that there was
no such substantial error as justifies a reversal of the judgment.
That there may be such certainty of profits as in some actions
for breach of contract will justify their recovery is undoubtedly
true. H7oward v. Stillwell & Biece .ManufacturingCompany,
139 U. S. 199, 206; Cincinnati Gas Company v. ]1esternz Siemens Company, 152 U. S. 200; Anvil .1]ining Company v.
Humble, 153 U. S. 540, 49. If this action had been one by
the Bucki Company against the Atlantic Company to recover
damages for a breach of its contract to deliver logs, the inquiry
as to profits might have been broader than was permitted in
the present case. But, as pointed out in the charge of the
court, the failure of the Atlantic Company to further deliver
logs was not caused by or the direct result of the attachments.
By signing these bonds the surety did not agree to become
responsible for all the damages which the ]Bucki Company
might sustain by every act of the Atlantic Company, but simply
that it would be responsible for the damages resulting directly
from the attachments. The direct result of the attachments
was the placing of a lien upon the realty, and for a certain
time interrupting the Bucki Company's business by taking
possession of its personal property, and the damages which
resulted directly from these alone were the damages which the
surety company agreed to become responsible for. The court
very properly admitted in evidence, and permitted the jury to
consider the net profits which had been earned from the carrying on of the business in the few months prior, not as in and
of itself constituting the measure of damages, but as tending
to show what damages the Bucki Company sustained by the
brief interruption of its business. When the lien on the realty
was ended and the personal property restored, the atttachments

McCLUNG v. PENNY.
189 U. S.

,

Syllabus.

had spent their force and the surety company became responsible for all the damages attributable directly to the attachments. The failure to further deliver logs, and the reflection
on the credit of the Bucki Company by the bringing of the actions may also have damaged or added to the damages of the
Bucki Company, but such result was not due to the attachments. The Atlantic Company and not the surety company
was the party responsible therefor.
Neither can we see that there was error in refusing to discharge the jury and postpone the trial. A postponement or
continuance is largely within the discretion of the trial court,
and unless that discretion is shown to have been abused there
is no sufficient ground for reversal. It does not appear that
any witness had been discharged or any books or documents
in possession of the counsel sent away during the trial, and
there was no offer then and there to present further testimony.
It does not seem to us that the Bucki Company was prejudiced
by the ruling of the court in this respect.
The liability for counsel fees and the true measure of damages are the main questions in the case. This latter question
was presented in different forms and with various limitations,
but we think the rulings of the trial court thereon were substantially correct. We see no error in the record which justifies a reversal of the judgment, and it is
Affirmed.

McCLUNG v. PENNY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 384. Argued MIarch 6, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.

It must appear that this court has jurisdiction of the case before it can inquire whether the territorial court has committed any error in its decision or in permitting the action to be maintained, and such jurisdiction
does not exist if the value of that which is in controversy does not exceed $5000.

