FOSTER v. PRYOR.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

same jurisdiction over the act that it would have had if Congress had not passed an act on the subject.
There is, also as we think, considerable weight to be attached
to the contenti6n that the Federal statute is not essentially the
same as the state statute regarding extortion. In the state
statute it is specified that the property must be obtained from
another with his consent, and that such consent must be induced by a wrongful use of force or fear, while those words are
lacking in the other statute. Without expressing an opinion
upon the question whether the indictment and conviction could
be sustained without the provisions of section 5328, Revised
Statutes, we hold that, taking such section into consideration,
the state court had jurisdiction in this case. The judgment,
therefore, must be

Affirmed.

FOSTER v. PRYOR.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 173. Argued and submitted February 25, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.
When the difference is deep and radical between two domains in which the
same kind of property may be situated, the law which makes them one
district for taxation, so that all the property of the same kind in the
same district must be taxed alike, and no reasonable distinction be permitted, must itself be so plain and urgent that no other intention can be
suggested.
There is no provision in the act of Congress of 1890 organizing Oklahoma,
or in the territorial act of 1886, which was violated by the act of 1899,
p. 216, Session Laws of Oklahoma, which provides that only taxes for
territorial and, court funds shall be assessed, levied or collected in any
unorganized country, district or reservation attached to any county for
judicial purposes, and the effect of which is to tax property in an organized county for more purposes, thereby making a different and higher
rate than similar property is taxed in the unorganized territory attached
to such county.
THIS is an action to enjoin the payment of certain taxes levied
upon property belonging to the appellees (plaintiffs below) and

OCTOBER TERIM,

1902.

Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

situated in an Indian reservation within the Territory of Oklahoma. The appellee, Hite, resides in the Ponca and Otoe Indian reservation within that Territory; the Stafford Land and
Cattle Company is a corporation organized under the laws of
the State of Texas and doing business in the above-named Territory; and the 101 Live Stock Cattle Company is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Kansas. The
appellees, severally, owned large nurnbers of cattle which were
grazing in the Indian reservation, and they were assessed therein
for purposes of taxation by the taxing officer of Noble County,
to which such reservation had been attached for judicial purposes. The reservation is without the boundaries of Noble
County and is not within those of any organized county of the
Territory, and it comprises land owned and occupied by Indian
tribes consisting principally of wild, unimproved and unallotted
land used for grazing purposes. The reservation was duly attached to the county of Noble for judicial purposes, by order
of the Supreme Court of the Territory, pursuant to the provisions of section 9 of the act organizing the Territory, approved
May 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 81, 85.
By article 6, chapter 43, Session Laws of Oklahoma, 1895, it
is provided :
"That section 13, article 2, chapter 70,of the Oklahoma statutes relating to revenue, be and the same is hereby amended so
as to read as follows: Section 13. That when any cattle are
kept or grazed, or any other personal property is situated in
any unorganized country, district or reservation of this Territory, then such property shall be subject to taxation in the organized county to which said country, district or reservation is
attached for judicial purposes, and the board of county commissioners of the organized county or counties to which such unorganized country, district or reservation is attached, shall appoint
a special assessor each year, whose duty it shall be to assess such
property thus situated or kept; such special assessor shall have
all the powers and be required to perform all the duties of a
township assessor, and shall give a similar bond and take the
same oath as required of such township assessor, and receive
the same fees as a township assessor, and the officer whose duty

FOSTER v. PRYOR.
189 U. S.

'327

Statement of the Case.

it shall be to collect the taxes in the organized county to which
such country, district or reservation is attached shall collect the
taxes, and is vested with all the powers which he may exercise
in the organized county, and his official bond shall cover such
taxes," etc.
In 1899, p. 218, Session Laws, the Oklahoma legislature
passed an act which provided"That from and after the passage and approval of this act
no taxes shall be assessed, levied or collected in any unorganized country, district or reservation which shall be or which
may hereafter be attached to any county for judicial purposes,
except taxes for the territorial and court funds. All acts and
parts of acts in conflict herewith are hereby repealed."
The tax assessor of Noble County being of opinion that the
law of 1899 was void for reasons hereafter stated, proceeded to
assess for taxation under the act of 1895, supra, the cattle of the
appellees which were grazing in the Indian reservation, instead
of assessing such property for territorial and court funds only,
as provided for in the act of 1899. The assessment for all purposes was at the rate of 26.2 mills on the dollar of valuation,
divided as follows: For territorial purposes 5.2 mills, for court
purposes 3 mills, for salaries 6 mills, for road and bridge fund
2 mills, for sinking fund 4 mills, for poor and insane 1 mill, for
supplies 2 mills, for county school fund 2 mills and for contingent purposes 1 mill, making a total of 26.2 mills. If the assessment had been for territorial and court purposes only it
would have been at the rate of 8.2 mills on the dollar of valuation.
The appellees insisted that the taxing officer bad no right to
assess them upon their property in the reservation at any
greater rate than 8.2 mills for territorial and court purposes, as
provided for by the act of 1899, while the appellants contended
that the act of 1899 was void, and that the tax assessor had
the power, and it was his duty under the act of 1895, to assess
the property of the appellees situated in the reservation, for all
purposes; or, in other words, for the whole 26.2 mills.
The trial court held in favor of the tax officials and dismissed
the petition of the appellees, but upon appeal the judgment of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

dismissal was reversed by the territorial Supreme Court and
the tax declared invalid for more than 8.2 mills assessed for
territorial and court purposes. 11 Oklahoma, 357. The tax
authorities have brought the case here by appeal.
Argued by Mr. Horace Speed for appellants. XM. William
1?. .Harr and Mr. William J. Hughes were on the brief.
Submitted by .A&. ilenry E.AsT,
I.Barnum for appellees.
MR. JusTIcE PEcKixcn,

r.S. H. HUarrisand W.

after making the foregoing statement

of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
If the statute of 1899, limiting the right of assessment, is
valid, it follows that the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
Territory, setting aside an assessment for more than such limited
amount, must be affirmed. But it is urged that the act of 1899
is void, and that, being void, the taxing officer was justified and
required by the act of 1895 to make the assessment he did.
The grounds upon which the appellants base their claim that
the act of 1899 is invalid rest upon the provisions of section 6
of the organic act, approved May 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 81, and upon
section 1 of the act approved July 30, 1886, 21 Stat. 170.
That portion of the sixth section of the act of May 2, 1890,
material to the present inquiry, reads as follows:
"That the legislative power of the Territory shall extend to
all rightful subjects of legislation not inconsistent with the
Constitution and laws of the United States, but no law shall
be passed interfering with the primary disposal of the soil; no
tax shall be imposed upon the property of the United States,
nor shall the lands or other property of non-residents be taxed
higher than the lands or other property of residents, nor shall
any law be passed impairing the right to private property, nor
shall any unequal discrimination be made in taxing different
kinds of property, but all property subject to the taxation shall
be taxed in proportion to its value."
Section 1 of the act approved July 30, 1886, 24 Stat. 170,
provides:

FOSTER v. PRYOR.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"That the legislatures of the Territories of the United States
now or hereafter to be organized shall not pass local or special
laws in any of the following enumerated cases, that is to say:
"For the assessment and collection of taxes for territorial,
county, township, or road purposes."
The main objection offered to the act of 1899 is that it results in a violation of the rule of uniformity which, as appellants allege, must exist in the same taxing district with reference to the same kind of property. The appellants contend
that the Indian reservation is, for taxing purposes, a part of
the county of Noble, and therefore part of the same taxing
district as that county, and that the taxation under the act
of 1899, for that reason, violates the rule of uniformity above
referred to. As a basis for the contention that it is the same
taxing district, it is maintained that the order of the Supreme
Court made by virtue of section 9, of the act of 1890, attaching
the reservation to Noble County for judicial purposes, made it
a part of the judicial district of that county, and that the subsequent act of the legislature in substance placed the reservation under the general taxing jurisdiction of Noble County,
and therefore made it a part of the same taxing district, and,
being a part of the same district, the personal property in the
reservation must be taxed at the same rate, and for all the
purposes that personal property is taxed in the organized county
of Noble.
It must be remembered at the outset that the reservation
was never any part of Noble County, for the legislature had
no power to make it such. Tkomas v. Gay, 169 U. S. 264,
275. It was, as its name implies, a reservation set apart by
the general government as a home for the Indians, and as such
it formed no part of any organized county. Although, by
reason of the act of 1895, the personal property in the reservation was subject to taxation in the organized county to which
it was attached for judicial purposes, but of which it formed
no part, yet that act did not thereby make the reservation a
part of the same taxing district as the county. The act of
1895 (and that of 1899) reached for taxation the owners of

OCTOBER TERAM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

cattle, or any other personal property situated in the reservation, and that was the full effect of each act. All other property
than that above described was left untouched, and, we assume,
could not have been taxed if owned by Indians, by reason of
the treaties or agreements under which the reservation was set
apart for the use of such Indians. The right of taxation in
the reservation was not as full and entire, even under the act
of 1895, as it is in an organized county. This is a most inportant, if not conclusive, distinction, between the organized
county and the reservation when considering whether one and
the same taxing district has been created by legislation which
does not in terms purport to create it. That legislation was
only for the purpose of thereby reaching for taxation a certain
class of property in the reservation, and the whole balance that
was in the reservation was left untouched. What is there in
such legislation which necessarily creates a single taxing district, within which all property must be taxed alike?
Then, too, the property under the act of 1895 was assessed
by a separate officer, and although the same officer who collected the taxes in the organized county was authorized and required to collect the taxes in the reservation, yet that fact did
not make it part of the same taxinig district so as to prevent the
legislature from altering the proportion of the taxes which the
owner of property in the reservation should be liable to
pay as compared with the owner of property in the organized county to which it was attached for certain purposes only.
It was simply a convenient method of collecting the taxes on
property in the reservation; bat the legislature was not thereby
prevented from exercising the right to recognize the difference
between property situated within an organized county and
that which was situated in a reservation, and to make a difference in the rate of taxation in the two cases. If a separate
taxing district was not created under the act of 1895, still less
can it be contended that one was created by the act of 1899,
which enacted a different rate of taxation than prevailed in
Noble County.
Even the assessment of the same amount of taxes and their
collection by the same officers that acted for the organized

FOSTER v. PRYOR.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

county would not necessarily render the reservation part of the
same taxing district as the organized county. The material
and important fact remains that the reservation is no part of
the county, but is a totally distinct and separate domain, set
apart for a home for Indians under the care and custody of the
general government, and that taxation therein is permitted
only to a limited extent and upon certain kinds of property,
not including Indians or their property; and the imposition
and collection of those taxes which are permitted do not thereby render the reservation a part of the same taxing district as
the organized county to which it is attacned for judicial purposes. The difference between the two domains, the reservation and the organized county, is radical and wide. The lands
in the former are, as we have said, mostly wild and uncultivated and used principally for grazing purposes, and the domain is the home of a different and distinct race from that occupying the organized county, the inhabitants of which are of
civilized races, following the customs of civilized life, and in
almost everything differing from their Indian neighbors.
Property therein is clearly very differently placed than is the
same kind in an organized county. Those who live and own
property in an organized county receive more benefit from the
taxes levied for general purposes than do the owners of property located in a reservation. The act of 1899 makes certain
personal property in the reservations bear its proportion of the
burdens of taxation for territorial and court purposes, from
which such property derives some benefit. The owners of
such personal property can derive very little, if any, benefit
from the taxes raised for other purposes than those just mertioned. There is no township government existing there; no
provision for the organization of school and road districts or
for the establishment of other municipal governments, and
hence it may be seen that, even assuming the power of the
legislature to tax for all such purposes at the same rate as in an
organized county, and to provide for the collection and payment
of such taxes into the county treasury for disbursement for
county purposes, yet still the injustice of such a rate of taxation would naturally appeal to the legislature and result in

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

some legislation of the kind passed in 1899. The territorial
legislature has evidently recognized that fact and enacted that
statute in consequence.
All this goes to show the legislature never intended to create
a single taxing district of an organized county and a reservation
composed of such different materials. As further evidence of
the substantial difference between the two places, attention is
called to the fact that the general laws providing for taxation
in an organized county do not authorize such taxation in a reservation, even after it has been attached to a county for judicial purposes. There must be special legislative authority for
it. Wagoner v. Evans, 170 U. S. 588, 592.
Whether the legislature by the act of 1897, providing the
method of thereafter making assessments in townships by means
of one assessor for each county, did thereby repeal the provision
in the act of 1895, in relation to a special assessor for the Indian reservations, we do not determine, because even if such
were the case and the assessor for the county were the one to
make the assessment in the reservations also, the mere fact of
the change of the officer who was to make the assessment did
not on that account make a reservation part of the same taxing
district as the county to which it was attached for judicial purposes, within the meaning of the rule requiring uniformity of
taxation within the same taxing district, assuming such rule to
apply to the Territory named.
The foundation of the rule which may be said generally to
obtain, that there shall be uniformity in taxation of the same
kind of property in the same taxing district, rests on the assumption that in such district the circumstances regarding the
property to be taxed are ordinarily the same in substance, although there may,-and necessarily must be, some differences as
to the extent to which the different owners of property may
be benefited by the taxes collected thereon, and it is to be assumed that an alteration as to rate would work an unjust and
illegal discrimination in taxing property situated alike. When
the difference is deep and radical between the two domains in
which the same kind of property may be situated, the law which
makes them one district for taxation, so that all the property

FOSTER v. PRY OR.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the same kind in the same district must be taxed alike, and
no reasonable distinction be permitted, must itself be so plain
and urgent that no other intention can be suggested. No such
case is now before us.
It is true the taxation in the reservation under the act of 1895
was for all purposes, and this court held that the act was not
for that reason an illegal exercise of legislative power. It was
recognized that there were differences in the amount of benefits
derived from such taxation by the organized county as compared with the reservation, but it was not thought that, for that
reason, the law was invalid. Thomas v. Gay, 169 U. S. 264.
It was a matter of legislative discretion with which the courts
had in general no concern.
It has not, however, been held that the legislature could not
recognize the difference in circumstances and provide for a different rate of taxation for property in the reservation from that
levied on property in the organized county to which the reservation was attached for judicial purposes. The power to make
this distinction does not depend upon the existence of a separate
officer to assess or to collect the tax.
If it required special legislative authority to tax at all, how
can it reasonably be maintained by the taxing officer that the
act which provides for the taxation, although at a reduced rate,
is illegal? And if an act were once passed which authorized
the same rate of taxation as in the organized county, could not
the legislature repeal it? And if it could repeal, why could
it not modify it by reducing the rate of taxation, although not
totally exempting property from all taxation? If the legislature had repealed the act of 1895, and had passed no other,
there plainly would be in that case no law for taxing the property in the reservation. If subsequently it passed an act for
the taxation of such property at a reduced rate from that existing in the organized county, it could not be said there was any
exemption from taxation, but on the contrary it would be the
case of an act providing for taxation.
The only answer made by the appellants is the assumed fact
that all property of the same kind in the same taxing district
of this Territory must, in all circumstances, be taxed at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

same rate or must be wholly exempted, and that no discrimination can, in any event or under any circumstances, be permitted ; otherwise there is a discrimination which is illegal. But
if it be not in the same taxing district the reasoning fails, even
if otherwise good.
The recognition by the legislature of the difference in the
situation between Noble County proper and the Indian reservation attached to it for judicial purposes, and the taxation of the
property in the latter at a different rate from that in the
county, may be upheld upon the same principle as in the case
of general city taxation, where the whole of the city is first
assessed equally as a taxing district and then the more compact
portions thereof are assessed at a greater rate and required to
pay a greater proportionate share of the expense of the city
government, because of the fact of the greater proportionate
protection and benefit afforded by the police and fire departments and other like matters, to the portions of the city thus
subjected to greater taxation.
Cooley, in his work on Taxation, p. 118, affirms the validity of
such legislation, and refers in a note (3) to cases which establish
it, and he dissents from the view taken by the Wisconsin court
in -nowltom v. Su2 ervisors &c., 9 Wisconsin, 410, 421. Where
the difference between the different portions of territory is
plain and palpable the right of the legislature to recognize that
difference and to provide for a difference in taxation cannot be
denied without imposing, as said by Judge Cooley, restraints
upon the constitutional power of the legislature, which cannot
in reason be justified. Whether there is such a difference
would generally be for the legislature to determine, although
we would not say that the courts could not, in any possible
state of facts, review that determination. In the case before
us the legislative act providing for this difference in taxation
amounts, in itself, to a provision for a different taxing district
within the principles just stated, and certainly no one would
say that it was not a most reasonable and just recognition of a
plain difference in circumstances, which ought to lead to a
difference in the proportion of taxation between the two places.
Whether the proper officer made the assessment or not is im-

FINNEY v. GUY.
Syllabus.

189 U. S.

material in this case. The defendants in error have not only
not appealed from the decree of the Supreme Court, but they
have paid the taxes assessed for the purposes mentioned in the
act of 1899, and do not seek to recover them back in this case,
and the question is of no consequence to them.
In the view we take of the case we are unable to see that
any provision of the act of Congress of 1890, organizing the
Territory, or the other act of 1886, in regard to Territories
then or thereafter to be organized, has been violated by the
territorial act of 1899, and the judgment of the Supreme Court

of Oklahoma is, therefore

Affirmed.

FINNEY v. GUY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 180. Argued February 27, March 2,1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.

Where a case turns upon the construction by a state court of a statute of
another State, and not upon the validity of such statute, a decision on
that question is not necessarily of a Federal character. It depends upon
the particular facts of each case and the manner in which they are presented, how far such questions can be regarded as coming under the full
faith and credit clause of the Constitution.
As decided in Hale v. Allinson, 188 U. S. 56, a receiver of an insolvent corporation appointed by the courts of Minnesota under the statutes of that
State then existing cannot maintain an action outside of that State to enforce the statutory double liability of the stockholders; in refusing to
allow such a receiver to maintain such an action, the courts of Wisconsin
dd not fail to give full faith and credit to the laws and judgments of
Minnesota, under the Federal Constitution.
Where the law of a foreign jurisdiction has been proved as a fact, the evi-.
dence of a witness, stating such law and decisions as to its meaning and'
effect, does not preclude the court from itself consulting and construing such statute and decisions, and deducing its own opinion in regard
thereto, Eastern Building & Loan Assn. v. Williamson, ante, p. 122; nor
is the right and duty of the courts to themselves construe statutes and
dejai.ios of a foreign jurisdiction altered because such law and decisions
are set forth in a pleading which is demurred to instead of being proved
as facts on a trial.
Whether, apart from Federal questions, the courts of one State should
permit an action of this nature to be maintained on the principle of comity, is a question exclusively for the state court to decide.

