THE PAQUETE HABANA.
189 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

THE IPAQUETE HABANA.
AIPPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
Nos. 578, 579, 580, 51,582, 58, 5, 585, 586, 587, 588, 589.* Argued March 19, 1903.-Decided
April 6, 1903.
This court having decided in The PaqueteHabana, 175 U. S. 677, that certain fishing smacks engaged in coast fishing for the daily market were
not liable to capture, and ordered that the proceeds of vessels and cargoes
be restored to the claimants with compensatory and not punitive damages and costs, and it appearing that the damages allowed were excessive,
the cases were remanded to the District Court for further proceedings.
Under the circumstances of this case the decree should be entered against
the United States and not against the captors individually.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Solicitor General Hoyt for the United States.
.Mr.
The court is free to weigh and settle the facts here uncontrolled by subordinate findings. The inquiry is whether the
court is satisfied by the whole evidence. The Iigilantia, 1
Rob. 1;. The Soglasie, Spinks, 104; The Carlos F. Roses, 177
S. 655. The Vigilantia,and Thie Soglasie exhibit the reason'U.
able doubt of courts respecting the certificates of national
magistrates presumably complaisant toward their colintrymen.
Early cases in this court show that the court handles such
awards with great freedom, allowing some items and rejecting
other., in the exercise of its discretion. Thie Apollon, 9 Wheat.
362; The Lively. 1 Gall. 315; The C/arming Betsy, 2 Or. 64;
.Maley v. Shattuck, 3 Or. 458; The Amiaile lYanmj, 3 Wheat.
546.
The claims are excessive and unconscionable, and the evidence in support of them unsatisfactory and inconclusive. The
*No. 578. United States v. The Paquete Hlabana; No. 579. Same v. The
Lola; No. 580. Same v. The Poder de Dios; No. 581. Same v. The Antonio
y .Paco;No. 582. Same v. The Engracia; No. 583. Same v. The Severita;
No. 584. Same v. The Antonio Suarez ; No. 585. Same v. The Fernandito;
No. 586. Same v. The Oriente; No. 587. Same v. The Espana;No. 588. Same
v. The Cuatro de Settembre; No. 589. Same v. The Santiago Apostol.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for the United States.

witnesses are in the highest degree interested, and the inference
of a combination of interest throughout the cases is irresistible.
The reappearance of the same witnesses and claimants in different cases, and the corporate relations shown suggest that
the ownership of these boats and the handling of their catch
constituted a sort of Havana "fishing trust." The interrogatories called for candid and complete answers. Forgetfulness,
failure to keep books, the omission to furnish bills of sale, statements about documents which the documents do not supportthese things find no excuse in the form of the interrogatories.
It was for the claimants to support their claims absolutely and
completely. The harbor master's certificate is given as to all
the vessels on the same day, long after the final condemnation
below, appraising them as of the same date prior to the war.
That officer admittedly acts as an expert appointed by the
two firms chiefly interested to appraise the value of their respective fishing smacks. His testimony and certificate should
not be accepted as a veritable and reasonable statement of the
value of the vessels. Sufficient appears fairly to require the
court to reject the exaggerated claims, and, indeed, sufficient
appears to enable the court, justly and understandingly to fix
the point between the prices realized at the government sale
and the amounts claimed, which will give r'estitiuioin. integum.
If the court thinks that a satisfactory basis of readjustment
and settlement is not yet before it, then we submit that the
cases should go back to the court below for further inquiry.
As to the naval captors' liability, Thie Ostsee, Spinks, 174,
fully reviews the principles and authorities. The captors
seize at their peril; they take the burden and the risk along
with the possible benefits. The only question is whether the
claimants are in fact entitled to restitution with damages and
costs. The Ostsee decided that captors are liable; that they
may afterwards be indemnified at the expense of the public
makes no difference in the rule. They cannot be so indemnified by means of a judgment against the United States. It is
for Congress to relieve them. The cases in this court, .Murray
v. Tihe Oharming Betsy, 2 Cr. 64 ; Little v. Baarreme, 2 Or. 170 ;
Maley v. S]iattuck, 3 Cr. 458, show that the seizors have al-

THE PAQUETE HABANA.
189 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

ways been held liable for restitution in value. The distinctions and qualifications as to government exemptions from
liability, Te Siren, 7 Wall. 162, speak for themselves and do
not comprehend the present cases. The same remark is true
of The Nuzestra Saeora de Regla, 108 U. S. 96, in which the
reduction of the claim is significant, and the original hearing
is instructive on the general doctrine of the government exemption from liability in the courts.
The Government by its commission and war instructions authorizes capture, but does not thereby adopt the acts of its officers as its own, or condone their errors, or assume the liability
arising upon their wrongful acts, however "pure in intention"
the wrong may be. Such an idea is flatly contrary to all the
principles of government exemption from suit and responsibility for the acts of its officers and agents except so far as it has
expressly made itself liable. The Government grants prize
rights to captors, and libels on behalf of captors and itself.
The Government may restore, even after libel filed, at any
time before condemnation; that fact would give disappointed
captors no claim against the Government. If the executive
should determine to recognize a diplomatic claim (which may
be interposed after condemnation) that does not summon the
captors to respond. Equally, if there is a judicial decree of
restitution with damages and costs, that does not call upon the
Government to respond because it files the libel and is the
formal party plaintiff. The "captors," that is, the actual
commander of the offending vessel representing all of his
subordinates, must meet the responsibility of the illegal act
of seizure.
Mistaken practice in the lower courts or inferences from particular acts of Congress granting indemnity cannot avail to
overturn an established rule. As in England the appeal for
relief is to Crown or Parliament, here it is to Congress. The
courts cannot recognize that appeal by giving judgment against
the United States, even if it should be a nugatory judgment
not subject to execution. We urge with conviction that any
award to claimants here must rest upon the various naval captors and not upon the United States.

OCTOBER TERMf, 1902.
Argument for Claimants.

189 U. S.

Mr.J. Parker -irlin for claimants.
I. No sufficient ground for the reversal of the decree is shown,
so far as the quantum of the damages is concerned.
1. There is no serious dispute as to the principle on which
the damages are to be assessed. The claimants are entitled to
"fair indemnity for the losses sustained by the seizure." The
fYuestra Seior de ]iegla, 17 Wall. 29, 31. The owners of the
vessels being Cubans, and the vessels having been seized in
Cuban waters when about to enter Cuban ports, the damages
are naturally to be measured with reference to the value of the
vessels and property in Cuba rather than in the United States.
Bates v. Clark, 95 U. S. 204,210. The damages to be awarded
should be equivalent to the injury sustained.
The Lively,
1 Gallison, 315; lletzel v. Baltimore & Ohio Ry.,169 U. S. 26.
This principle is impliedly recognized in the mandates issued
under the previous decision, which provided that the damages
should be "compensatory."
The assessment of the damages was referred by consent to
the commissioner. His conclusions, therefore, will not be disturbed, unless they are clearly in conflict with the weight of
the evidence. The .Elton, 83 Fed. lep. 519, 520 ; Kimberley v.
Arms Co., 121 U. S. 512, 524; Davis v. Schwartz, 155 U. S.
631, 636; Crawford v. T eill, 144 U. S. 585, 596; Farrer v.
-Ferris,145 U. S. 131. Even if the reference had not been
made on consent, the conclusions of the commissioner on matters of fact would still be entitled to much weight. Tilghman
v. Proctor, 125 U. S. 136, 149.
The District Judge heard argument on the libellant's exceptions to the report, and, after consideration, overruled them
and confirmed the report. The case comes before the court,
therefore, with the concurrent finding of the commissioner
and the court in favor of the claimants. Under these circumnstances the court should decline to interfere with the amount
of the decrees, unless manifest error appears. Thze Ship -Marcellus, 1 Black, 414; Thie Conqueror, 166 U. S.110, 136.
2. The evidence produced on the part of the claimants consisted of the depositions of the owners of the vessels and of the
harbor master in the port of Havana in relation to the value

THE PAQUETE HABANA.
189 U. S.

Argument for Claimants.

of the vessels, and of certain disinterested fish merchants as to
the value of the fish. The evidence of the libellant consisted,
for the most part, of the depositions of witnesses who did not
profess to have any acquaintance with the value of fishing
vessel property. The commissioner heard some of the witnesses for the Government, but accepted the evidence of the
claimants' witnesses as more accurate and reliable. It is contrary to the practice of the court to reverse a decree where
both courts below have concurred in the decision of questions
of fact, and the result arrived at depends on the number or
credibility of witnesses. Thie Richmond, 103 U. S. 540, 543.
3. The exceptions to the commissioner's report are insufficient
to raise any question as to the amount of the damages. The
exceptions were:
"First, that the amount allowed as compensatory damages
for the following vessels, and each of them, is excessive and not
sustained by the evidence;" and,
"Second, that the value of each of said vessels . . . as
ascertained by the commissioner is contrary to the evidence."
No suggestion was made as to the amount which the United
States attorney thought the evidence would justify as an allowance for compensatory damages. Exceptions expressed in almost identical terms were held to be insufficient in The Commander-in-Cief,1 Wall. 43, 50.
4. The status of the claimants does not affect their right to
receive full compensation. Even if the claimants were technically in the position of enemies at the time of the captures, the
court has, nevertheless, determined that their property was entitled to exemption from capture. In awarding compensation,
therefore, the property is to be dealt with in the same manner
as the property of friends. If its value was enhanced by reason
of the war, that fact would not' be material in measuring the
damages except as showing the values current at the time when
the right to compensation accrued. The right to compensation
has been determined, and the damages are to be measured by
the value of the property at the time of the capture, with interest and costs. If that value was enhanced by the military or
naval operations of our Government, the claimants are, never-

OCTOBER TERMT, 1902.
Argument for Claimants.

189 U. S.

theless, entitled to be paid at the enhanced amounts; for they
represented the value which the property would have possessed,
and at which, presumably, it could have been disposed of, but
for the unlawful capture and condemnation. These observations apply alike to the valuations of the vessels, and to the current price for the fish, at the time of the capture, as to which
there is no dispute.
5. There was no error in the award of interest, or the rate at
which it was allowed. No question on that subject, however,
is properly before the court. There was no exception to the
report of the commissioner as to the rate of interest, or as to
the propriety of allowing it. Nor is there any assignment of
error to the final decrees on this subject. Without any exception or assignment of error on the subject, no question relating
to interest appears to be before the court. The Commanderin-Chief,1 Wall. 43.

Interest has always been allowed in cases of this class, not
only against private captors, but against the United States.
T/ie Apollon, 9 Wheat. 362, 376, 379, 380; Te Charming
-Betsy, 9 Cranch, 64, 125; The Anna .Maria,2 Wheat. 3277;
The Amiable i'ancy, 3 Wheat. 546, 562, 563; The _Huestra

Sehora de Regla, 108 U. S. 92, 104. The records in the cases
of The labuan, ]l3atchford's Prize Cases, 165; Te Glen,
Blatchford's Prize Cases, 375; The Sybil, ]3latchford's Prize
Cases, 615, show awards of interest against the United States
and the captors jointly. The allowance of interest was within
the fair scope of the mandates as a part of the "compensatory
damages" to be recovered.
In allowing the legal rate of eight per cent, which prevails
by statute in the Southern District of Florida, the court followed the practice which is sanctioned by this court. Texas &
Paciflc By. Co. v. Anderson, 149 U. S. 237, 242; The Conemaugh, ante, p. 363; I11tey v. Mfacon Co., 35 Fed. Rep. 431;

1 Sedgwick on Damages, 8th ed. sec. 339. There can be no
presumption that the rate of interest in Cuba, during or immediately following the war, when financial conditions were,
notoriously, in an extremely unsettled condition, was less

T11E PAQUJETE FIABANA.
189 U. S.

Argument for Claimants.

than the legal rate prevailing in the district in which the final
decrees in these cases were entered.
II. The District Judge committed no error in deciding that
the compensatory damages awarded to the claimants under the
mandate of this court were payable by the United States.
1. It appears to have been determined by the previous decision of the dourt that the compensatory damages awarded are
to be paid by the United States.
It would seem that the only parties to these causes are the
United States on the one hand, and the claimants of the vessels
on the other.
Section 4618 of the Revised Statutes provides that "upon
receiving the report of the prize master directed by the preceding
section, the attorney of the United States for the District shall
immediately file a libel against such prize property, and shall
forthwith obtain a warrant from the court directing the marshal to take it into his custody, and shall proceed diligently to
obtain a condemnation and distribution thereof." Section 4630
provides that "the net proceeds of all property condemned as
prize shall, when the prize was of superior or equal force to the
vessel or vessels making the capture, be decreed to the captors;
and when of inferior force, one half shall be decreed to the
United States and the other half to the captors."
In pursuance of these provisions libels were filed by the
United States, through its attorney for the Southern District
of Florida, in all the cases, and in the original decrees of condemnation it was " ordered, adjudged and decreed that the said
sloop . . . and cargo are condemned and forfeited to the
United States as lawful prize of war." Certain naval officers
filed their depositions in the cases, claiming shares of the prize
money.
Any intervention of this character, however, is permissible
only after final decree of condemnation, and is authorized only
for the purpose of enabling the court to make distribution of
the proceeds of the prize. Rev. Stat. §§ 4631,4634. It seems
doubtful, to say the least, that claims to distributive shares of
that portion of the prize money which, under the statutes, falls
to the captors, make the officers who present them parties to
the cause.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Claimants.

189 U. S.

The parties who were before this court on the previous appeal were, therefore, the claimants of the vessels on one side,
and the United States on the other. As between those parties the court decreed in each case that "the decree of the
District Court be reversed and the proceeds of the sale of the
vessels, together with the proceeds of any sale of her cargo,
be restored to the claimants with damages and costs." Tlte
Paquete Habana, 175 U. S. 677, 714. On a subsequent day
the court on motion of the Solicitor General, ordered "that
the decree be so modified as to direct that the damages to be
allowed shall be compensatory only and not punitive." 175
U. S. 677, 721.
This is the judgment of the court between the only parties
who were before it. The plain effect of the decision appears
to be that the court determined that the compensatory damages to be recovered by the claimants were to be paid by the
United States. This determination must be taken as final and
conclusive throughout the subsequent stages of the litigation.
Tlie _Muestra Segora dle Regla, 108 U. S. 92, 100; Claie v.
Reith, 106 U. S. 464:; Supervisors v. Kennicott, 94 U. S. 499;
The 1ady Pike, 96 U. S. 461.
No motion was made to amend the mandate so as to provide,
if it had been competent to do so, that the judgment should
be against the captors as well as the United States, or that it
should be against the captors alone. In the absence of such
an amendment the District Court had no power or authority
to enter any decree, except against the libellant of record. In
re Potts, 166 U. S. 263, 265, 267-268.
2. If it be considered that the court below had authority, in
executing the mandate, to enter a decree against the captors
alone, or against the United States and the captors jointly, it
was, nevertheless, justified by the practice and by precedent in
entering decrees against the United States alone, as was (lone.
It is the settled practice in prize cases, where restitution is
ordered with damages, to assess and award the damages in the
original cause against the libellants therein.
This was done without question in cases that arose prior to
1861. Thie Clia 'ming Betsy, 2 Cranch, 641; The Amiable

THE PAQUETE IHABANA.
189 U. S.

Argument for Claimants.

Jfanoy, 3 Wheat. 354; The Apollon, 9 Wheat. 362. The rule
was recognized by Congress in the act concerning letters of
marque, prizes and prize goods, passed June 26, 1812. 2 Stat.
759, 761.
Since the enactment of the prize acts of August 6, 1861, 12
Stat. 319; March 3, 1863, 12 Stat. 759 ; and June 23, 1864; Rev.
Stat. §§ 4613, 4652, it has been the practice to file all libels in
prize causes in the name of the United States. No case has
been found in which the United States appears as libellant and
damages for unlawful capture have been awarded against the
naval captors. On the contrary, the practice, since 1861, has
been to award the damages against the United States alone, or,
in cases where the captors have intervened before condemnation and asked to be made co-libellants, against the United
States and the naval captors jointly.
The recoids on file in a number of cases in the District Court
for the Southern District of New York in which the United
States was libellant and the captors intervened and joined in
the prayer for condemnation, show that judgment was entered
jointly against the United States and the captors in the following form: "It is ordered and adjudged . . . that final
judgment be, and the same is hereby, rendered in the above
cause in favor of the claimants of said vessels and cargo
"
against the libellants and captors for the sum of $
The Glen, Blatchf. Prize Cases, 375, final decree entered by
Betts, J., October 24, 1863 ; The Labuan, Blatchf. Prize Cases,
165, final decree entered by Benedict, J., March 25, 1868 ; The
Sybil, Blatchf. Prize Cases, 615, final decree entered by Blatchford, J., March 2, 1868.
In all these cases Congress passed appropriations to pay the
decrees. 13 Stat. 575; 16 Stat. 649; 16 Stat. 650. Judgment
was directed against the United States alone in The HSuestra
Senora d Regla, 108 U. S. 92. The liability of the United
States in such cases appears to be recognized by implication in
Rev. Stat. § 4640.
3. The United States, by entering the forum as an actor, and
prosecuting to condemnation, for its own and its agents' joint
use, the vessels whose unlawful capture it had ratified and con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Claimants.

189 U. S.

firmed, has submitted itself voluntarily to the jurisdiction of
the court, and is bound, under the universal practice in prize
causes, to compensate the claimants for their loss.
These are not actions of tort against the United States.
They are mere claims for the restitution of property which the
Government has unlawfully taken from private individuals.
The principle involved is that property which one has wrongfully taken shall be returned, or if, by the procurement of the
wrongdoer, it cannot be returned in specie, its value should be
returned.
If the Government had taken the vessels and applied them
to its own use, instead of procuring them to be condemned and
sold, without legal right, there could be no question that it
would be bound to return them, or their value. United States
v. Russell, 13 Wall. 623; Clark v. United States, 95 U. S. 539.
It may be that this is the principle which underlie the decision
in ie IMuestra Sehiora de Regla, 108 U. S. 92. Nor could
there be any question of the right of the prize court to order
the United States to restore the vessels, if they still remained
in specie and were subject to its control.
It would appear to be an extreme refinement of principle
which would deprive the court of jurisdiction to determine that
the United States should refund the value of the property unlawfully taken, simply because it is now beyond the power of
the Government, solely in consequence of its own action, to
return the vessels themselves.
No claims are made against the Government, beyond the
value of the property against which it proceeded and which it
caused to be condemned. They are, in substance, merely claims
for restitution. Properly speaking, they are not affirmative
demands against the Government for damages arising ex delicto.
The authorities, in which the immunity of the United States
from tort actions is asserted, appear to have no real application
to these controversies.
The court, in previous decisions, has recognized the liability
of the Government to the extent of the value of the property
involved, where it has voluntarily submitted itself to the jurisdiction of the court as a plaintiff against such property. The

THE PAQUETE HABANA.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

Siren, 7 Wall. 152, 154, 159; Carr v. The United States, 98
U. S. 436, 438; Clark v. Barnard,108 U. S. 436, 448; Cunningham v. 1R. 1?. Co., 109 U. S. 446, 452; The _Yuestra Seitra
de Regla, 17 Wall. 29; 108 U. S. 92.
The English courts also recognize the principle that a sovereign otherwise exempt from suit, may subject itself to judgment in a cross-suit, if it invokes the jurisdiction of the court
as a plaintiff. The .5ewbattle,10 Prob. Div. 33, 35; Zing of
Spain v. Hallet, 2 Bligh (N. S.), 31, 57.
4. No error has been assigned to the decision of the court
below in awarding the damages against the United States alone,
instead of against it and the naval captors jointly. No application was made to the court below for a decree against the
libellant and the naval captors jointly. No such application
could, properly, have been made, for the reason that the naval
captors did not intervene as co-libellants and join in the prayer
for condemnation. The Revised Statutes do not contemplate
or permit an intervention of that nature. Rev. Stat. §§ 4630,
4631, 4634.
The only contention presented by the United States attorney
on this subject, was that the decree should be against the naval
captors alone. There can be no question it would seem, that
the court below rightly decided, on the record as it stood,
against that contention. The naval captors had, it is true,
taken and brought in the vessel; but their action had been
ratified and confirmed by the United States. Under the prize
acts, ratification of the captures by the Government, which
founded libels thereon, may well be taken as relieving the naval
captors from liability, even if they had been before the court
as parties. Lazar v. Brown., 92 U. S.187; ]Dobree v. Napier,
2 Bing. N. C. 781. Joint decrees against the libellant and the
captors would have been of advantage to these claimants, but
as the record stood there appeared to be no ground for asking
the court to enter them in that form.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLmES delivered the opinion of the court.

These are cases of fishing smacks, which were libelled as

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

prize of war. The proceedings in all the cases are similar and the
evidence to a large extent the same. It was decided by this
court in two of the cases, Paquete ll-abana and Lo a, 175 U. S.
677, that smacks of this sort, engaged as these were, in coast-fishing for the daily market, were not liable to capture, and decrees
were ordered that the proceeds of the vessels and cargoes be
restored to the claimants, with damages and costs. On motion
of the United States it was ordered that the decrees be modified so as to direct that the damages should be compensatory
only and not punitive. Decrees were entered in each of the
above-named cases by the District Court in pursuance of this
mandate, and agreements between the United States, the captors and the claimants were filed, that the damages should be
charged against the United States or the captors, or apportioned,
"as to justice may appertain and as the legal responsibility
therefor may appear;" saving the right to review the decrees
as to amount and as to where the ultimate responsibility rested.
The papers do not disclose such an agreement in the cuatro de
Settembre, but as the records so far as similar to the first two
cases were not printed, we assume that the omission was only
in the index, and that it was understood that this case should
stand like the rest. The cases were referred to a commissioner
to report the amount of damages. Ie reported his findings
and the evidence. The United States excepted to the findings
as excessive. The District Court entered decrees against the
United States for the amounts, and the United States appealed
on the grounds that the decrees should have gone against the
captors and not against the Government, and that the damages
were excessive and the exceptions to the commissioner's report
should have been sustained.
We do not see how it is possible that a decree should be entered against the captors. There was no formal intervention
by them, and whether a decree can be made against the United
States or not, it has so far adopted the acts of capture that it
would be hard to say that under the circumstances of these
cases it has not made those acts its own. It is not disputed
that the United States might have ordered the vessels to be released. It did not do so. The libels were filed by the United

THE PAQUETE HABANA.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States on its own behalf, praying a forfeiture to the United
States. The statfftes in force seemed to contemplate that form
of procedure, Rev. Stat. § 4618, and such has been the practice
under them. The libels alleged a capture pursuant to instructions from the President. The captures were by superior force,
so that that there was no question that the United States was
interested in the proceeds. Rev. Stat. § 4630. The modification
of the decrees in regard to damages, on motion by the United
States, imported a recognition of the interest of the United
States in that matter, and its submission to the entry of decrees
against it. The agreements to which we have referred had a
similar import, although they indicated an awakening to a determination to argue the form of the decree. In the case of
-Littlev. Barrente,2 Or. 170, conversely to this, the United States
was not a party and the captor was. All that was decided bearing upon the present point was that instructions from the President did not exonerate the captor from liability to a neutral
vessel. As to even that the Chief Justice hesitated. But we
are not aware that it is disputed that when the act of a public
officer is authorized or has been adopted by the sovereign power,
whatever the immunities of the sovereign, the agent thereafter
cannot be pursued. Lamar v. Browne, 92 U. S. 187, 199; and
as to ratification, Buron v. Denman, 2 Exch. 167, 187, 189;
Secretaryof State in Council of Indic v.

aamacee Boye Sahaba,

13 Moo. P. C. 22, 86. See Dempsey v. Clambers, 154 Massachusetts, 330, 332. The principle and authority of Bu-ron v.
Denman was recognized and followed by the Court of Claims
in Wiggins v. United States, 3 C. C1. 412, 423.
If we are right so far, we think that under the circumstances
of this case a decree properly may be entered against the United
States. The former decree of this court remains in force and
requires a final decree for damages. Be Potts, 166 U. S. 263,
265 ; fcCormick v. Sullivant,10 Wheat. 192, 200. The decree
must run against the United States if a decree is to be made.
In The -uestra Seffora de Rega, 108 U. S. 92, 102, the court

was of opinion that the United States had submitted to the jurisdiction of the court so far as to warrant the ascertainment of
damages according to the rules applicable to private persons in
VOL. CLXXXIX-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

like cases. It seems to us that the facts here are not less strong.
Decrees in cases which disclose no special circumstances have
been recognized by subsequent statutes providing for their payment. Glen, Blatchf. Prize Cases, 375, act of Feb. 13, 1864,
c. 10, 13 Stat. 575; Labuan, Blatchf. Prize Cases, 165, act of
July 7, 1870, c. 220, 16 Stat. 649; Sybil, JBlatchf. Prize Cases,
615, act of July 8, 1870, c. 231, 16 Stat. 650; Flying Scud, 6
Wall. 263, act of July 7, 1870, c. 219, 16 Stat. 649. See also
16 Stat. 650, c. 232; 651, c. 234.
We pass, then, to the other ground of the appeal. With regard to this it is objected that the exceptions to the master's
report are not sufficient to open the question; referring to Commander-in-Cltief,1 Wall. 43, 50. But the objection being the
general one that the evidence did not warrant the finding and
all the evidence being attached to the report nothing more is
needed.
On the amount of the damages we are of opinion that further
proceedings must be had. We do not forget the weight that is
given to the findings of a master or commissioner upon matters
of fact. But this weight is largely, although not wholly, due
to the opportunity, which we do not share, of seeing the witnesses. So far as the commissioner disregarded the testimony
of the witnesses whom he saw we should hesitate to overrule
his conclusion, although it seems too absolute on the grounds
set forth. But the result reached is based on documentary evidence which is before us, and as to which we have equal opportunities for forming a judgment. It appears to us plain that
this evidence was given undue weight. The source from which
it comes and the high valuations require that it should be taken
with considerable reserve. The commissioner had a right,
which he seems to have thought that he did not possess, to
chancer the estimates. He adopted the owners' prices without
qualification. The certificate of the harbor master of Havana
is dated November 23, 1898. It does not purport to be a copy
of any earlier record. It is true that he makes his valuation as
of March 1, 1898, but he does not say either in the certificate
or in his testimony that he made that valuation at that or any
other date before :November 23. We shall not go over the

THE PAQUETE HABANA.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

other evidence in detail. Some at least of the vessels were old.
The Paquete Habana, for instance, at least eighteen or twenty
years. One half interest was bought in 1892 for $2400. She
is valued in 1898 by owners, harbor master and commissioner at
$4500. The Lola was purchased " at a cheap price," according to the owner, in 1887. The valuation of some of the other
smacks is above the price said to have been paid for them in
earlier years.
In the case of the Espana it appears that she was about fourteen years old, and cost when built ten thousand dollars. She
is valued by the owners and harbor master, agreeing as usual,
at $9000. The commissioner adopts this valuation. Yet it appears that the vessel was resold to the owners for $2500.
Whether this price was a fair value or not, and the owners
would not give more, the result of the sale was that they had
their boat back again. It is apparent, therefore, that their actual loss was ohly what they had to pay to get it, the loss from
detention of the boat and any wear and tear and changes that
it had undergone in the meantime. In a case of the present
kind it would be going beyond the requirements of justice into
the realm of very doubtful technicalities to disregard the fact
that the vessel got back because it was due to a subsequent
transaction with a stranger. There is some evidence that the
same thing happened in some or all of the other cases. See
T/ie -Lively, 1 Gall. 315, 321.
The fish are allowed for at the highest price in Havana during the blockade, which is too high a rate, and interest was
charged at eight per cent, there being no reason apparent for
charging more than six if interest was allowed. See Lincoln v.
Clcflin, 7 Wall. 132, 139; Th4e Amalia, 34 L. J. Adm. 21;
Straker v. ffartland, 9 Hem. & Mil. 570; .Frazer v. Bigelow
Carpet Co., 141 Massachusetts, 126. These are details, but they
show what is manifest throughout, that the owners' demands
have been accepted without discrimination on evidence which
does not justify the result.
We think that we have said enough to, show that a revision of the findings is necessary. It seems to us better that
this revision should take place in the District Court rather than

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

be attempted by us. Whether further evidence shall be taken
we leave to the parties and to that court.
.Decrees ireversed and cases remanded for further proceedingg
in accordancewith this opinion.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
BEHYMER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 224. Argued MBarch 20, April 6, 1903.-Decided April 20, 1903.

In an action for personal injuries sustained by a brakeman by falling from
a car, where the claim was based upon negligence in stopping the car sud-

denly with knowledge of his position and of the slippery condition of the
roof of the car, and also upon the projection of a nail in the roof of the car

which increased the danger and contributed to his fall, held, there was
no error in the court declining to rule that the chance of such an accident
was one of the risks assumed by the plaintiff, or that the question
whether the defendant was liable depended on whether the freight train
was handled in the usual and ordinary way.

It was proper for the court

to leave it to the jury to say whether the train was handled with due
care.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. . P. Duncan for plaintiff in error. M. John P. Dillon and XM/r. Winslow S. Pierce were on the brief.
.tfr. Cone Johnson for defendant in error.

MIR.

JUSTICE HOL ES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an aftion for personal injuries brought by an employ6
against a railroad company. It was tried in the Circuit Court,
where the plaintiff had a verdict. It then was taken to the
Circuit Court of Appeals on a writ of error and bill of excep-

