NAT. BANK & LOAN CO. v. PETRIE.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

NATIONAL BANK AND LOAN COMPANY v. PETRIE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
N0o.166. Argued and submitted February 24, 1903.-Decided larch 9, 1903.

Where a national bank has sold certain bonds and the vendee has obtained
a judgment for the purchase money in a state court on the ground that
the sale was induced by false representations of the president of the
bank, the judgment will not be reversed on the ground that the sale of
the bonds was without the authority of the bank and was illegal and
void. The fraud is prior to the sale and authorizes a rescission; nor can
the bank claim that the fraud was perpetrated by an agent who did not

represent it for illegal purposes.

The bank must adopt the whole trans-

action or no part of it.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted by Mr. Henry Purcell and Mri. John Lansing for
plaintiff in error.
Argued by X11.Elon R. Brown for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action to recover money paid to the plaintiff in
error for certain bonds. One defence set up in the answer was
that the bank was a national bank, and that the sale of the
bonds was without the authority of the bank, and was illegal
and void. Judgment went against the bank, it was affirmed by
the appellate division of the Supreme Court, 46 Ajp. Div. 634,
and by the Court of Appeals, 167 N. Y. 589, and the case now
comes here by writ of error. The ground of the action is that
the sale was induced by false representations of the president
of the bank. We do not state these particularly, because the
findings and rulings of the state court with regard to them
are not open. We have to deal with no question except the
defence attempted under the United States statute, and therefore need not inquire whether they contained a stronger infusion

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

of fraud than is allowed to vendors in the way of praising
their wares.
As we are of opinion that the defendant in error is entitled to
keep his judgment, it does not matter so much as otherwise it
would whether the result is reached by a dismissal of the writ,
on the intimation of Walworth v. IKneeland, 15 How. 348, 353;
see Conde v. York, 168 U. S. 642, 649, or by an affirmance of
the judgment. We shall assume that the defence under the
statute was such a claim of immunity as to entitle the plaintiff
in error to come here. Logan County lNationalBank v. Townsend, 139 U. S. 67, 72 ; 2fcCormick v. Market Bank, 165 U. S.

538, 546. On that assumption, however, we do not perceive
how the defence is made out on the record. The complaint, to
be sure alleges that the bank was acting unlawfully in selling
the bond, but it does not appear that Petrie knew the fact, and
it would be a strong thing to charge him with notice or a duty
to make inquiries as to how the bank was conducting its business, or to make the validity of the sale depend upon the fact
alone, irrespective of the purchaser's knowledge. See Liners'
Ditch Co. v. Zellerbach, 37 California, 543, 578, 579; NSew lork
" NYew Raven Railroad v. Schiuylee, 34 N. Y. 30, 73 ; -JMadison
& ndianatpolis Railroad v. _Xorwich Saving Society, 24 In-

diana, 457, 462.

The sale might have been lawful.

It was not

necessarily wrong. Fir t.NationalBank of C]iarlottev. Vational .Exchiange Bank of Baltimore, 92 U. S.122, 128. How-

ever, we need not stop at this preliminary difficulty or another
suggested by the answer, on which no point was made. The
answer alleges that the sale was without the authority or consent of the bank, and was not within the course of its regular
business, which looks a good deal like an attempt to deny that
there ever was an effective sale and yet to keep the price.
The declaration goes upon a rescission of the contract. It
contains ambiguous language, but the allegations of tender of
the bond and that the tender still is kept good make the ground
sufficiently clear. The question then is, leaving on one side
the averment just quoted from the answer, and assuming that
the parties were attempting a transaction forbidden by the law,
whether the nature of the attempt prevents one of them from

NAT. BANK & LOAN CO. v. PETRIE.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

withdrawing from the bargain on the ground of preliminary
fraud. If the withdrawal were on the ground of repentance
alone the law might, or might not, leave the parties where it
found them. See Central Transportation Co. v. Pullman's
Palace Car Co., 139 U. S. 24, 60, 61 ; Pullman's Palace Car
Co. v. Central Tran portation Co., 171 U. S. 138, 150. But a
person does not become an outlaw and lose all rights by doing
an illegal act. See Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S.
540. The right not to be led by fraud to change one's situation is anterior to and independent of the contract. The fraud
is a tort. Its usual consequence is that as between the parties
the one who is defrauded has a right, if possible, to be restored
to his former position. That right is not taken away because
the consequence of its exercise will be the undoing of a forbidden deed. That is a consequence to which the law can have
no objection, and the fraudulent party, who otherwise might
have been allowed to disclaim any different obligation from
that with which the other had been content, has lost his right
to object because he has brought about the other's consent by
wrong. See Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Central Transportation Co., 171 U. S. 138, 151. It is true that the fraud was perpetrated by an agent, and it is argued that he did not represent
the bank for an illegal act. But unless this means that there
was no sale, as the answer and a part of the argument seem
to suggest, in which case, of course, Petrie must have his
money back, the answer is that if the bank relies upon the sale
it must take it with the burden of the fraud. It must adopt
the whole transaction or no part of it. It cannot affirm what
is for its advantage and repudiate the rest. Cases where the
action is on the illegal contract do not apply. Such was First
National Bank of Allentown v. -Rock, 89 Penn. St. 324. Here
the attempt is to recover outside of it, treating it as set aside.
An action for damages caused by fraudulent representations
which induced a contract, affirms the contract and relies upon
it,Ihiteside v. Brawley, 152 Massachusetts, 133, 134, and therefore may be subject to the same defences as an action brought
directly upon the contract. Weckler v. First _Nrational Bank
of HMagerstown, 42 Maryland, 581, 595, 597, seems to have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

189 U. S.

an action of this character in respect of a sale on commission by
the bank. We express no opinion as to an action of that kind.
See Thompson v. Saint fVicolwas H5ational Bank, 146 U. S.
240, 251; Concord First Hational Bank v. Hawkins, 17-4 U. S.
364. But when a right is claimed to repudiate it, the party
who denies the right is the one who relies upon the contract,
and that party must take it as it was made. The record discloses no error re6xaminable here.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MTCKENNA took no part in the consideration and
disposition of this case.
NATIONAL BANK AND LOAN Co

No. 165.

AWY V.CARR.

Argued with No. 166 and by the same counsel.

An. JUSTICE HOLMES: This case is similar in substance, pleading and argument to the foregoing, with the additional fact
that the president of the bank acted as the confidential adviser
of the defendant in error and did not reveal to her that the
bonds belonged to the bank or that he was on both sides of the
transaction and interested against her. As soon as she found
out that the bank was the seller she repudiated the sale.
Judgment ajffirmed.

BROWNFIELD v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 172. Argued February 25,1903.-Decided March 9, 1903.

Where a negro moves to quash an indictment on the ground that he is
denied the equal protection of the laws and his civil rights under the
Constitution and the laws of the United States by the exclusion of negroes
from the grand jury, but the record does not show that he proved or offered to prove the truth of the allegations on which the motion was based,
this court cannot interfere with the judgment.

