OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

189 U. S.

an action of this character in respect of a sale on commission by
the bank. We express no opinion as to an action of that kind.
See Thompson v. Saint fVicolwas H5ational Bank, 146 U. S.
240, 251; Concord First Hational Bank v. Hawkins, 17-4 U. S.
364. But when a right is claimed to repudiate it, the party
who denies the right is the one who relies upon the contract,
and that party must take it as it was made. The record discloses no error re6xaminable here.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MTCKENNA took no part in the consideration and
disposition of this case.
NATIONAL BANK AND LOAN Co

No. 165.

AWY V.CARR.

Argued with No. 166 and by the same counsel.

An. JUSTICE HOLMES: This case is similar in substance, pleading and argument to the foregoing, with the additional fact
that the president of the bank acted as the confidential adviser
of the defendant in error and did not reveal to her that the
bonds belonged to the bank or that he was on both sides of the
transaction and interested against her. As soon as she found
out that the bank was the seller she repudiated the sale.
Judgment ajffirmed.

BROWNFIELD v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 172. Argued February 25,1903.-Decided March 9, 1903.

Where a negro moves to quash an indictment on the ground that he is
denied the equal protection of the laws and his civil rights under the
Constitution and the laws of the United States by the exclusion of negroes
from the grand jury, but the record does not show that he proved or offered to prove the truth of the allegations on which the motion was based,
this court cannot interfere with the judgment.

BROWNFIELD v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
189 U. S.

427'

Opinion of the Court.

TiE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
t . J. . lfitchell and Mr. TF J Whipper for plaintiff in
.r. E.
Hewlett
H.
was with them on the brief.
error.
.Mr. John S. Wilson and Mr. If H. Townsend for defendant in error.
M .

JUSTICE

HoL,:ts

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes here by writ of error to the Supreme Court
of South Carolina. The plaintiff in error has been convicted
of murder, and the error alleged is that the grand jury was
composed wholly of white persons, and that all negroes, although constituting four fifths of the population and of the registered voters of the county, were excluded on account of their
race and color. The plaintiff in error is a negro, and he says
that in this way he has been denied the equal protection of the
laws and of the civil rights guaranteed to him by the Constitution and laws of the United States. Carterv. Texas, 177 U. S.
442. The case was taken to the Supreme Court of the State
by appeal and the judgment of the trial court was affirmed.
60 S. C. 509.
We have stated the error which is alleged. The trouble with
the case is that we are not warranted in assuming that the allegations are true. The record contains an agreed statement
called a brief, in which it appears that the defendant below
made a motion to quash on the grounds stated, and in which it
is said that the defendant offered to introduce testimony to support these grounds. But this agreed statement is "signed with
relation to case as settled by judge." It appears that the parties
agreed that the judge before whom the case was tried should
"make a statement as to his rulings upon the motion to quash
the indictment, and also as to the motion to challenge the arrays
of grand and petit jurors in the case, and also as to requests to
charge, and such statement shall be the agreed statement for
the purposes of this appeal." The challenge of the array referred to was upon the same grounds as the motion to quash.

OCTOBER TERI,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

In pursuance of this agreement the judge made a statement of
the grounds on which he overruled the motion. "Because the
statement of facts set out in the grounds for quashing the
same, did not appear from the records or otherwise.
In the absence of any showing to the contrary, I was bound
to assume that the jury commissioners had done their duty."
The foregoing language is quite inconsistent with there
having been an offer to prove the allegations of the motion, as
is the further fact that the record discloses no exception to the
supposed refusal to hear evidence offered to that end. If these
considerations were not enough, we have, in addition, the
absence of any suggestion of a refusal to admit evidence in
the reasons for appeal to the Supreme Court, and the statement
of the Supreme Court that it was not contended at the hearing
of the appeal that there was any offer to introduce testimony on
the point "other than the offer therein made." The last
words refer, we assume, to the concluding words of the motion:
"All of which the defendant is ready to verify." Upon the
whole record we are compelled to infer that the statement that
the defendant offered to introduce evidence was inserted in the
so-called brief by his counsel, but was not agreed to except so
far as it might be confirmed by the statement of the judge,
and that he did not confirm it. We see no ground for the
suggestion that this fact w'as outside the matters submitted to
the judge, and therefore must be taken to have been admitted.
Evidently that was not the understanding on the part of the
State. It is suggested that the allegations of the motion to
quash not having been controverted and having been supported
by the affidavit of the defendant, must be taken to be true.
But a motion, although reduced to writing, is not a pleading,
and does not require a written answer. It appears from the
grounds on which the judge decided it, apart from anything
else, that the allegations were controverted, and under such
circumstances it was necessary for the defendant to make an
attempt to introduce evidence. The formal words of the
motion were not enough. Smith v. Mississipp, 162 U. S. 592,
601.
A provisional objection is made to the constitution of South

PARDEE v. ALDRIDGE.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

Carolina, in case it should be held to exclude negroes from the
jury. But the ground of the motion was not that negroes
were excluded by an invalid constitutional provision, but that
they were excluded in the administration of the law, although
they were qualified under it to serve. The case involves questions of the gravest character, but we must deal with it according to the record, and the record discloses no wrong.
Judgment afirned.
Mn. JUSTICE MCKENNA took no part in the consideration and
disposition of this case.

PARDEE v. ALDRIDGE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 137. Argued January 19, 20, 1903.-Decided March 16, 1903.

Where a railroad company mortgages its road including all appurtenances
and appendages of said railroad, and the property of said company now
acquired, or which may be acquired, used for and pertaining to the operation of said railroad, a sale under such mortgage does not include property acquired by the company after the mortgage for the purpose of subdivision and sale; and it is a question for a jury to determine, whether
the land so purchased was to be used for and pertaining to the operation
of the railroad or not.
A suit to foreclose a mortgage is not a proceeding in rem which will bind
persons who are not parties thereto, and the fact that the decree covered
the property in question does not conclude strangers to the suit.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

,A&. .Maxwell _Evarts for, plaintiffs in error.
was on the brief.

.i,.

R. S. Lovett

.Mr. IF. J. .Moroney for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE

HOL-ES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of trespass to try title to land brought by

