CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.

KENNEDY MINING AND

MILLING COMPANY

,.

ARGONAUT MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 49. Argued December 10, 11, 1902.-Decided March 9, 1903.

Where the contention is that the title to ore taken from a mine depends
upon whether the mine was patented under the act of July 26, 1866, or the
act of May 10, 1872, and involves the effect of the want of parallelism of
the end lines of the location, a Federal question is so presented that this
court has jurisdiction.
Where, as the result of an adverse proceeding in the land office and a compromise agreement entered into by applicants for patents for mining
claims on the same lode, a.common end line crossing the lode at right
angles was established and patents were issued according to the adjustment, this fixed the rights of the partieg in length on the lode and the
extra-lateral right as between them; and estopped each and its successors
from asserting the right to ore body extracted from the vein within the
end line of the other.

THIS was an action for damages for the value of ore alleged to have been taken by the Kennedy Mining and Milling
Company from ground belonging to the Argonaut Mining
Company, situated in Amador County, California. The Kennedy Mining and Milling Company denied taking any ore or
gold-bearing rook which was the property of the Argonaut
Mining Company, and averred that it was the owner of the
vein or lode from which the rock was taken. The case was
voL. cLXXXX-1

(1)

OCTOBER TERI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

submitted to the trial court on an agreed statement of facts,
and resulted in a judgment in plaintiff's favor, which judgment
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of California. 131 California, 15. Writ of error was then allowed, and each party
docketed the case in this court, but the record was only printed
in No. 49.
The parties are co-terminous mining proprietors upon the
same vein or lode, the top or apex of which passes through the
Pioneer location, belonging to the Argonaut Company, into the
Kennedy location, belonging to the Kennedy Mining and Milling Company.
A certain map of the Pioneer and Kennedy mining claims
was made part of the findings of fact, but the Supreme Court
of California made use of a diagram simplified from that
exhibit, which is as follows:

7P"EER(ARGO)
1-

/
/

/

, *0

QUARTZ MINE

48

I

I

/

/I
/
/

The common boundary is the line A-B, crossing the lode
at the point marked 1 on this diagram. The line A-B-B' is

KENNEDY CO. v. ARGONAUT CO.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the end line produced indefinitely in the direction of the dip or
downward course of the vein.
The Kennedy mine was entered, and payment made in
November, 1871, and the patent was issued July 29, 1872.
The Pioneer was located under the law of 1866; on February 23, 1872, it was entered and paid for; and the patent was
dated August 12, 1872.
During the pendency of the patent proceedings a conflict
arose as to a segment of ground lying at the north end of the
Pioneer, and at the south end of the Kennedy. This controversy was subsequently adjusted by an agreement between
the then owners of the two properties. Both parties had sunk
working shafts, the openings of which did not start at the apex,
but each intersected the vein, and all the workings of both
were on this vein. The vein on its downward course passed
underneath the Silva mining claim belonging to the Kennedy
Mining and Milling Company, located and patented on another
vein, which had its apex within the Silva ground. This Silva
ground was patented to the Kennedy Mining and Milling Company, February 6, 1893, and the patent recited an entry made
in October, 18992.
The patent contained this reservation: "That the premises
hereby granted, with the exception of the surface, may be entered by the proprietor of any other vein, lode or ledge, the
top or apex of which lies outside of the boundary of said granted
premises, should the same in its dip be found to penetrate, intersect or extend into said premises, for the purpose of extracting and removing the ore from such other vein, lode or
ledge."
The ore in dispute, although taken from the Pioneer-Kennedy
vein, was south of the Kennedy south end boundary, as shown
by its patent, and the Kennedy Mining and Milling Company
did not assert any right to it by virtue of its ownership of the
Kennedy mine. The ore though taken from beneath the surface of the Silva location was taken from the discovery lode of
the Pioneer location, which was the only lode that had its apex
within that location. It entered the location near the middle
point of the southern end line, and ran northerly through the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

location in a direction practically parallel to the side lines,
through the center of the northern end line.
Plaintiff in error admitted the ownership by the Argonaut
iMining Company of the Pioneer mine, and that the lode had
its apex within its surface location, but denied that the quartz
taken by it from that lode was within that location, on the
ground that because of non-parallelism of the end lines of the
Pioneer, it carried no extra-lateral rights; and that if the court
could as matter of law construct for it parallel end lines, the
southerly end line being the base line from which the location
was projected, the parallel would be made by extending the
northern end line in a direction parallel to the direction of the
southerly end line.
The Supreme Court of California held that the Argonaut
Company was entitled to all the rights which would attach under the act of 1866, and to any additional rights which inured
under the act of 1872; that the act of 1866 did not require
parallel end lines, and the failure to so parallel them in the
Pioneer location did not deprive that claim of extra-lateral
rights; that the extra-lateral rights on lodes located under the
act of 1866, where end lines were not parallel, were to be defined by drawing lines at right angles to the general course of
the lode, at the extreme points of the lode within the location;
that the contention of plaintiff in error, that because the description in the Pioneer patent commenced at the south end of
the claim, and the south end line was first run, the inequalities
arising through diverging end lines should be adjusted by drawing a produced line from 1 to 6 in the diagram, parallel to the
produced south end line from 3 to 5 in the diagram, could not
be sustained.
The ore bodies in controversy were south of the northern end
line plane of the Pioneer as made by agreement the boundary
line between it and the Kennedy mining claim, and also within
the extra-lateral right planes constructed at right angles to the
general course of the lode through the extreme points of the
lode within the location.
The act of July 26, 1866, 14 Stat. 251, c. 262, provided that
patentees thereunder should have "the right to follow such vein

KENNEDY CO. v. ARGONAUT
189 U. S.

CO.

Opinion of the Court.

or lode with its dips, angles, and variations, to any depth, although it may enter the land adjoining, which land adjoining
shall be sold subject to this condition."
The act of May 10, 1872, 17 Stat. 91, c. 152, §§ 2, 3, provided
that the end lines of each claim should be parallel to each other,
and that locators should have "the exclusive right of possession and enjoyment of all the surface included within the lines
of their locations, and of all veins, lodes, and ledges throughout
their entire depth, the top or apex of which lies inside of such
surface lines extended downward vertically, although such veins,
lodes, or ledges may so far depart from a perpendicular in their
course downward as to extend outside the vertical side lines of
said surface locations: Provided,That their right of possession
to such outside parts of said veins or ledges shall be confined to
such portions thereof as lie between vertical planes drawn downward as aforesaid, through the end lines of their locations, so
continued in their own direction that such planes will intersect
such exterior parts of said veins or ledges."
Mr. Tohn almesbury IFrightand Mr. foohn Garberfor plaintiff in error. Mr. Byron Waters was with them on the brief.
Mrk. Curtis H. Lindley for defendant in error. Mr. Henry
Eickhof was with him on the brief.
after making the foregoing statethe court.
of
opinion
the
ment, delivered
MR. CHrEF JusTic- FULLER,

Plaintiff in error contended in the courts below that, by force
of sections 2 and 3 of the act of Congress of May 10, 1872, title
to the ore in question passed to it through its patent to the
Silva mine, and did not pass to the Pioneer through its patent
because the end lines of the latter were not parallel to each
other.
The defendant in error contended that its title was not 'acquired under the act of 1872, but under the act of July 26, 1866,
which did not require parallelism of end lines.
In these circumstances it is held by a majority of the court that
a Federal question was so presented that we have jurisdiction.

OCTO3ER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

It was stated in the agreed statement of facts that the Kennedy Mining Company on October 13, 1870, filed its application
for patent in the United States land office at Sacramento, California, and that a diagram of the premises for which patent was
applied for was posted in that land office October 15, 1810;
that on January 13, 1871, the Pioneer Gold and Silver Mining
Company, the immediate predecessor in title of the Argonaut
Company, filed its application for patent in the same land office,
and a diagram of the ground it claimed, and for which patent
was sought, was posted in the office of the register of the land
office, and upon the claim; that there was a surface conflict as
to area claimed by therespective applicants for patent, as shown
by the proceedings in the land office, the conflict occurring on
the northern end of the Pioneer mine as applied for, and the
southern end of the Kennedy mine as applied for; that on said
January 13 the register and receiver of the land office made and
entered an order in respect of the adverse claim of the Pioneer,
directing proceedings in the case of the Kennedy Mining Company to be suspended so far as affecting the piece or parcel of
land described in the order; that on February 20, 1871, the
Pioneer Gold and Silver Mining Company and the Kennedy
Mining Company entered into a compromise agreement, in
which each of the parties withdrew from their applications
their claim to a certain portion of the surface ground in dispute; and which provided that "the dividing line between the
claims of the respective companies shall be one drawn at right
angles with the general course of the lode or lead, and surface
ground thereto appurtenant, and at the point hereinbefore designated." The line thus agreed upon was the line from A toB
in the foregoing diagram. Thereafter surveys for the patent
for the Kennedy mine and for the Pioneer mine were duly
made, and patent was issued to the Kennedy Mining Company,
July 29, 1872, and to the Pioneer Gold and Silver Mining Company, Augumst 12, 1872. The Argonaut Company became the
owner of the Pioneer mine, July 3, 1893, by a deed from the
Pioneer Gold and Silver Mining Company, and the Kennedy
Mining and Milling Company became the owner of the Kennedy mine by conveyance from the Kennedy Mining Company,

KENNEDY CO. v. ARGONAUT CO.
189 73. S.

Opinion of the Court.

dated December 25, 1886. The Kennedy Mining and Milling
Company became the owner of the Silva quartz mine, February 6, 1893, by a patent issued to it on that day, which recited that that company on February 13, 1892, duly entered
and paid for the mining claim or premises known as the Silva
quartz lode mining claim.
It thus appears that a common end line was established by
the patent surveys, which described this line as crossing the
lode, and that the Kennedy Mining and Milling Company purchased with the knowledge that this was a common boundary
established as such by the patents many years prior to its purchase. The common boundary A B, crossing the lode, was
fixed as the result of an adverse proceeding in the land office,
and the agreement entered into with respect thereof was as set
forth in the agreed statement of facts.
We think, then, that the Kennedy Mining and Milling Company is estopped from asserting any right to the ore body in
dispute, which it was also agreed was extracted by the Kennedy
Mining and Milling Company from the vein south of the vertical
plane drawn through the line A B produced in the direction
B', and which was the same vein which had its top or apex in
the Kennedy quartz mine, and in the Pioneer quartz mine, and
was continuous from the apex of both properties downward to
the lowest depths. The boundary line agreed on fixed the
rights of the parties in length on the lode, and so involved the
extra-lateral right as between them.
The Argonaut M'ining Company and the Kennedy Mining and
Milling Company succeeded to the interests of the Pioneer Company and the original Kennedy Company, with a knowledge of
the boundary line so determined, and both parties were concluded
by it and the results following therefrom. Richmond .fi'ning
Company v. Eureka jllining Company, 103 U. S. 839, 846.
Apart from the questions discussed by the Supreme Court of
California, we are of opinion that the judgment must be affirmed
on the foregoing ground.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTIoE WHITE

and MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

dissented.

