THE ROANOKE.
189 U. S.

Syllabus.

July and August of the same year, the defendant entered upon
the land and constructed their forebay or dam, and laid a
fourteen-inch pipe in addition to the twelve-inch pipe which
Stowell had laid in 1883. We express no opinion as to the
possibility of the plaintiff maintaining a second action upon its
patent since obtained, or how far this case may, if at all, operate as res adjudicata in that.
There was no error in the decree of the Supreme Court, and
it is therefore
Affl'rned.
MiR. JUSTICE MCKENNA took no part in the disposition of this
case.

THE ROANOKE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 123. Submitted December 17, 1902.-Decided March 2, 1903.
The following propositions in regard to lien for supplies furnished to vessels may be considered as settled:
(1.) That by the maritime law, as administered in England and in this
country, a lien is given for necessaries furnished a foreign vessel
upon the credit of such vessel; and that in this particular the several States of the Union are treated as foreign to each other.
(2.) That no such lien is given for necessaries furnished in the home port
of the vessel, or in the port in which the vessel is owned, registered,
enrolled or licensed, and the remedy in such case, though enforceable in the admiralty, is -inpersonam only.
(3.) That it is competent for the States to create liens for necessaries
furnished to domestic vessels, and that such liens will be enforceb
by the courts of admiralty under their general jurisdiction on
the subject of necessaries.
Where, however, Congress has dealt with a subject within its exclusive
power, or where such exclusive power is given to the Federal courts, as
in cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, it is not competent for

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

the States to invade the domain of such jurisdiction and enact laws which
in any way trench upon the power of the Federal courts.
The statutes of the State of Washington, sections 5953, 5954, 2 Ballinger's Code, giving an absolute lien upon foreign vessels for work done
or material furnished at the request of a contractor or sub-contractor,
and making no provision for the protection of the owner in case the contractor has been paid the full amount of his bill before notice of the claim
of the sub-contractor is received, in so far as it attempts to control the
administration of the maritime law by creating and superadding conditions for the benefit of a particular class of creditors, and thereby depriving the owners of vessels of defences to which they would otherwise
have been entitled, is an unlawful interference with the exclusive jurisdiction of all admiralty and maritime cases which is vested by the Constitution in the Federal courts, and to that extent such statute is unconstitutional and void.

THIs was a libel in 'e2n for materials, and also for work and
labor, alleged to have been furnished by the libellants King and
Winge in the repair of the steamship Roanoke, to certain contractors with the owners, who bad full charge of the alteration
and repair of the steamship. An intervening libel was also filed
by one Fraser for labor and material furnished under the same
conditions.
The cases resulted in decrees for the libellants, from which
the North American Transportation and Trading Company,
owner of the steamship, appealed directly to this court, and the
following facts were found:
"The North American Transportation and Trading Company
appeared as claimant and owner and the vessel was released
upon its stipulation.
"It admitted all the allegations of the libel except that the
work was done on the credit of the ship, which it denied except
that it admitted that libellants had acted under the belief that
they had a lien by virtue of law. It then alleged its incorporation and existence under the laws of the State of Illinois, the
residence there at all times of its president and general manager, its maintaining only agencies at Seattle and at other places
in Alaska and Canada, and its enjoying a high credit. The
Roanoke it alleged to be an ocean-going vessel registered at
Chicago, Illinois, under the navigation laws of the United States,
with the name of Chicago painted on her stern. She was al-

THRE ROANOKE.
189 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

leged to have been purchased by claimant in 1898 on the Atlantic coast, and, upon the Pacific coast since that time, employed between Seattle and the mouth of the Yukon in the
summer, and between San Francisco and southern ports in the
winter. It was further alleged that the claimant had never
given any order for the material and labor described in the libel,
and that these were furnished on the order of the contractor,
who, before the filing of the libel and without any knowledge
by claimant of these unpaid claims, had been paid by this claimant for these materials and labor in full. It was alleged in
conclusion that the lien claimed by libellants was claimed under
sections 5953 and 5954 of Ballinger's Code and Statutes of
Washington, that such a lien was in this instance void, being
in violation of the eighth section of the first article of the Constitution of the United States, conferring upon Congress the
power to regulate commerce among the several States, was an
illegal burden upon interstate commerce, and in violation also
of the fourteenth article of the Constitution of the United States,
as depriving claimant of its property without due process of law
and without its equal protection, and was in violation of the
second section of the third article of the Constitution conferring
on the courts of the United States admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
"To the intervening libel of Fraser the same answer was
made.
"To each of these answers respectively the libellants and intervening libellant excepted as insufficient, and the whole of
each, to constitute any answer or defence to the libel.
"The exceptions were sustained, the claimant elected to
stand on its answer and a decree was entered against it and its
stipulators for the whole sum claimed in the libels."
M .-Frederick Bausman, with whom .M. -DanielKellehzer
was on the brief, for appellant.
The Roanoke was a non-resident ship. Registered in a port,
and belonging to a citizen, of Illinois, she was property only of
the State of Illinois. lays v. Pacific .M. S. Go., 17 How. 596;
Xorgan,v. Parhkam, 16 Wall. 471. However much she might

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellant.

189 U. S.

loiter in other waters, she was not liable even to taxation outside of Illinois, for she had no other situs. The Jennie .Middleton, 94 Fed. Rep. 683; Tie Ila'vana, 92 Fed. Rep. 1007;
Pullman Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141IU. S. 32.
This court has jurisdiction. The amount involved is sufficient. The Paquette Habana,175 U. S. 677. That the constitutional question was raised by the defence and not by
libellants is no objection. Direct appeal may be taken no matter which party raised such question in the lower court. Loeb
v. Trustees, 179 U. S. 472; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co.,
184: U. S. 540.
The Washington statute offends the commerce clause of the
Constitution. Interstate commerce is one province which, relinquished by the States, has been everywhere explored, occupied and subjected by its new possessor. Nowhere is anything
left uncertain. The regulations of government are wrought
out in the finest detail. Nothing has been too small. The
placing of buoys, the licensing of masters, engineers and pilots,
and even the wages of seamen, .have become the subject of
statutes. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Tie Genessee Chief,
12 How. 443. The maritime laws of the national government
cannot even be enforced by the States. iNo more can the uncodified jurisprudence of the seas, for courts of admiralty belong to the Federal government alone.
Railroad Co. v. .Maryland, 21 Wall. 456, 470, is quoted with
approval even by that majority in this court who conceded to
the States certain rights as to commerce by land. Pullman
Co. v. Pennsylvania,141 U. S. 32. Cars that were owned in
one State might be taxed if moving in another, but the ships
of another State never.
The very sale, hypothecation and transfer of ships is regulated by the navigation laws of the Union, and those laws
have their origin in the interstate commerce provisions of the
Federal Constitution. Why should one State be allowed,
then, to fasten liens upon vessels of other States ? Does this
not directly invade the interstate commerce right of the general government?

THE ROANOKE.
189 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

Any other view seems full of danger. State liens might become unreasonable.
. Hard as it is to conceive that the Federal government will
ever permit the encroachment of state liens where both commerce and admiralty are concerned, it is altogether too hard
to imagine that they will permit such liens to be unreasonable in themselves. The Beof4sst, 7 Wall. 624.
This law shows it is one of the most unreasonable ever
enacted of its kind.
The Washington statute invades the jurisdiction in admiralty.
Although a State may enact lien laws as to ships owned within
it has long been settled, but no decision can be construed as authorizing also liens on ships owned without the State. Indeed,
it is questionable whether such liens were intended to be supported, even within the State, beyond the home port. The
General Smith, 4 Wheaton, 438 ; Peyroux v. Howard,7 Peters,
342; The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624:; The Lottawannca, 21 Wall.
558; The J E. Rumbell, 148 U. S. I ; The Chusan, 2 Story,
455.
This case was cited with approval twelve years later, in
Steamboat New Yark v. Rae, 18 How. 223, in which a local
rule of navigation of New York was held good as to domestic,
and bad as to foreign, ships; in Hall v. De Cuir, 95 U. S. 485,
in 1877; in The Globe by Justice Nelson, 2 Blatch. 427; and
in The Selah, 4 Sawyer, 40 ; The Lyndhurst, 48 Fed. Rep. 839;
The Electron, 74 Fed. Rep. 689.
In conclusion (1) that as applied to vessels of other States, a
local lien invades the interstate commerce powers of the Federal government; (2) that even if any such law can be valid,
this one cannot because it is not a reasonable one; (3) that, as
regards the admiralty jurisdiction of the Federal government,
such laws, whether reasonable in terms or not, are void as to
vessels of other States, because wholly unnecessary, and in
their nature incompatible with the complete system of admiralty and its policy.
Mr. Harold Preston, with whom Mrb'. Benton Embree and
Mr. 07arence S. Preston were on the brief, for appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellees.

189 U. S.

This court does not have jurisdiction. Baltimore R. Co. v.
Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210; State of Arkansas v. Schlierholz, 179
U. S. 598, 601; City qf Lampasas v. Bell, 180 U. S. 276, 281.
I. The statute of Washington does not violate the commerce
clause of the Constitution. It is well settled that the laws of
the State in which personal property is situated govern respecting the transfer of title to and liens thereon, even where the
owner is a non-resident of the State. 1falworth v. Barris,129
U. S. 355; Brown v. Smart, 145 U. S. 454; Pullman Company
v. Pennsylvania,141 U. S. 32; The Iris, 100 Fed. iRep. 104,
106; G -een v. F-an Buskirk, 5 Wall. 307; 7 Wall. 139.
In determining the relative power of the States and of Congress concerning foreign and interstate commerce, the place of
residence of the owner of the instruments of such commerce is
wholly immaterial. A vessel is none the less engaged in interstate commerce because her owner resides in one of the
States between which such commerce is carried on. Therefore, in considering whether the statute of the State of Washington conferring liens on vessels violates the commerce clause
of the Constitution, the place of residence of the owner may be
laid aside.
The uniform current of decisions of this court is to the effect
that in those respects in which Congress has not exercised its
power to regulate interstate and foreign commerce, state legislation is valid so long as it affects such commerce only indirectly or remotely. .Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1, and citations; Zake Shore R. Co. v. 0/ho, 173 U. S. 285,'and citations;
Xissouri R. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613; Louisville P. Co. v.
Eentucky, 161 U. S. 677; Iilkerson v. Rohrer, 140 U. S. 545.
This reserved power in the States is not limited to the right
to legislate concerning the public health, morals or safety, but
extends also to and includes the power to legislate respecting
matters of mere convenience and the prosperity of the people.
-ak'e Shore R. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285.
Counsel for appellant admits this right on the part of the
State to legislate as applied to commerce on land, but denies
the right respecting commerce by water; there is no ground
for such a distinction. Railroad Company v. -Mfaryland,21

THE ROANOKE.
189 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

Wall. 456, cited by appellant, distinguished, and see Sherlock v.
Alling, 93 U. S. 99.
The court draws a distinction between the effect of taxation
upon the instruments of interstate commerce, and the regulation of such commerce by other means. .issouri 1. Co. v.
Haber, 169 U. S. 613, 632; Louisville -P. Co. v. Kentucky, 161
U. S. 67T, 701; Pittsburgh Coal Co. v. Louisiana, 156 U. S.
590, 598-599.
Compulsory pilotage laws of a State, while admitted to be
regulations of commerce, are held valid so long as Congress
refrains from legislating on the' subject. Cooley v. Board of
Wardens, 12 Howard, 299, 320; Huus v. Steanmhi]p Co., 182
U. S. 392; The China, 7 Wall. 53; Ex parte Mceil, 13 Wall.
236; Pacific fail S. Co. v. oliffe, 2 Wallace, 450. See also
as to materialmen statutes, The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558;
.McRae v. Dredging Co., 86 Fed. Rep. 344, 350; The Robert
Dollar, 115 Fed. Rep. 218.
The statute is not unreasonable, in that by its terms the lien
conferred continues for a period of three years. In this instance the liens against the Roanoke were asserted by the
commencement of these proceedings within five months after
the causes of action accrued. The record fails to show that
this lapse of time was unreasonable. :No claim of laches on the
part of the appellees is made. During this period the vessel
was in foreign waters, beyond the jurisdiction of the court. No
change in the ownership of the vessel took place. No claim is
made that the appellant was without knowledge that the appellees furnished the materials and performed the services set
forth in the libel. Nor are any facts set forth in the answers
to show that the contractors, at whose instance the appellees
furnished the materials and rendered the services, were obligated to pay appellees therefor.
II. The statute does not invade the jurisdiction in admiralty.
While a state statute cannot convert a contract non-maritime
in character by the general principles of the maritime law, into
a maritime one, for that would be to extend the jurisdiction in
admiralty, it is now well settled that a lien conferred by a state
statute as incident to a maritime contract, is, for all practical

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

purposes, a maritime lien, and that such a lien is cognizable in
the admiralty. Te J. F ]rmbell,148 U. S. 1, 20; The Glide,
167 U. S. 606; TlIe Robert Dollar, 115 Fed. Rep. 218.
The imposition by a local statute of a lien upon foreign vessels, so long as such lien is consistent with the principles of the
general maritime law, is no more an invasion of the admiralty
jurisdiction than the creation by such statute of a lien upon
domestic vessels. Tlie Chusa, 2 Story, 455; Te Lyndhurst,
48 Fed. Rep. 839; Steamboat New York v. Rae, 18 How. 223;
gfall v. De Cuir, 95 U. S. 585, cited by appellant distinguished;
and see Workrman v. 2Tew York, 179 U. S. 552, in which it
was held that by the maritime law the city was liable, and that
the local law, which, as construed by the state court, exempted
the city from liability, was not applicable because it deprived
parties of rights conferred by the admiralty law. In other
words, because it was inconsistent with the principles of the
admiralty law.
We contend, therefore, (1) that this coirt is without jurisdiction to review these proceedings; (2) that the statute of
Washington is not a regulation of commerce within the meaning of the Constitution; and (3) that such statute does not invade the jurisdiction in admiralty.
MR. JUSTIcE BRowN, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is appealed directly from the District Court to
this court under that clause of section 5 of the Court of Appeals
Act, which permits such appeal "in any case in which the
constitution or law of a State is claimed to be in contravention
of the Constitution of the United States." No additional significance is given to the appeal by certain questions certified
by the District Court, as the power to certify is only given in
cases appealed upon questions of jurisdiction. But as the case
is properly before us upon direct appeal from the District Court,
we proceed to dispose of the question of the constitutionality
of the law of Washington, under which these proceedings
were taken.

THE ROANOKE.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

By that law, 2 Ballinger's Code, sees. 5953 and 5954"5953. All steamers, vessels, and boats, their tackle, apparel,
and furniture, are liable,"3. For work done or material furnished in this State, for
their construction, repair, or equipment, at the request of their
respective owners, masters, agents, consignees, contractors,
sub-contractors, or other person or persons having charge in
whole or in part of their construction, alteration, repair, or
equipment; and every contractor, sub-contractor, builder, or
person having charge, either in whole or in part, of the construction, alteration, repair, or equipment of any vessel shall
be held to be the agent of the owner, for the purposes of this
chapter;
"Demands for these several causes constitute liens upon all
steamers, vessels, and boats, and their tackle, apparel, and
furniture, and have priority in their order herein enumerated,
and have preference over all other demands; but such liens
only continue in force for the period of three years from the
time the cause of action accrued.
"5954. Such liens may be enforced, in all cases of maritime
contracts or service, by a suit in admiralty, in rem, and the
law regulating proceedings in admiralty shall govern in all
such suits; and in all cases of contracts or service not maritime, by a civil action in any District Court of this Territory."
In this connection the following propositions may be considered as settled :
1. That by the maritime law, as administered in England
and in this country, a lien is given for necessaries furnished a
foreign vessel upon the credit of such vessel; The General
Smith, 4 Wheat. 438; The Grapeshot, 9 Wall. 129; Gen. Admiralty Rule 12, and that in this particular the several States
of this Union are treated as foreign to each other. The General Smith, 4 Wheat. 438; The -Yalorama, 10 Wall. 204, 212.
2. That no such lien is given for necessaries furnished in the
home port of the vessel, or in the port in which the vessel is
owned, registered, enrolled or licensed, and the remedy in such
VOL. CLXXix-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

case, though enforceable in the admiralty, is inpersonam only.
The L-ottawanna, 21 Wall. 558; The Edith, 94 U. S. 518.
This is a distinct departure from the Continental system, which
makes no account of the domicil of the vessel, and is a relic of
the prohibitions of Westminster Hall against the Court of Admiralty, to the principle of which this court has steadily adhered.
3. That it is competent for the States to create liens for
necessaries furnished to domestic vessels, and that such liens
will be enforced by the courts of admiralty under their general
jurisdiction over the subject of necessaries. The General,mnith,
4 Wheat. 438 ; The Planter, (Peyroux v. Hfoward,) 7 Pet. 324 ;
The 8t. Lawrence, 1 Black, 522; The Lottawanna, 21 Wall.
558 ; The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624; The J. E. Rumbell, 148 U. S.
1, 12. The right to extend these liens to foreign vessels in any
case is open to grave doubt. The Chusan, 2 Story, 455; The
.Lyndhitirst,48 Fed. Rep. 839.
The question involved in this case, however, is whether the
States may create such liens as against foreign vessels, (vessels
owned in other States or countries,) and under such circumstances as would not authorize a lien under the general maritime law. The question is one of very considerable importance,
as it involves the power of each State, which a vessel may
visit in the course of a long voyage, to impose liens under
wholly different circumstances and upon wholly different conditions. In the case under consideration the vessel was owned
by an Illinois corporation, enjoying a high credit, and maintaining agencies at Seattle and at other places in Alaska and
Canada. The Roanoke was an ocean-going vessel, registered
at Chicago under the navigation laws of the United States,
with the name "Chicago" painted on her stern, although she
was engaged in trade upon the Pacific coast between Seattle
and the mouth of the Yukon in summer, and between San
Francisco and southern ports in winter. Neither the owner
nor master nor other officers of the vessel had given an order
for the material and labor set forth in the libel, which were
furnished upon the order of a contractor, who, before the filing

THE ROANOKE.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the libel and without any knowledge by the owner of these
unpaid claims, had beenpaidinfullfor these clainw.
Although this court has never directly decided whether materials and labor furnished by workmen or sub-contractors constitute a lien upon a vessel- in other words, whether the
contractor can be regarded as an agent of the vessel in the purchase of such labor and materials-there is a general consensus
of opinion in the state courts and in the inferior Federal courts
that labor and materials furnished to a contractor do not constitute a lien upon the vessel, unless at least notice be given to
the owner of such claim before the contractor has received the
sum stipulated by his contract. Smith v. The Steamer Eastern
Railroad, 1 Curtis, 253; Southwick v. The Clyde, 6 Blackf.
148; Hubbell v. 1Denison, 4o Wend. 181 ; Burst v. Jackson, !0
Barb. 219; The Brig W]hitaker, 1 Sprague, 229; The Whitaker,
1 Sprague, 282; Harper v. The New Brig, Gilpin, 536; Ames
v. Swett, 33 Mlaine, 479; Squire v. One Hundred Tons of Iron,
2 Ben. 21.; The -Marquette,Brown's Adm. 364.
The injustice of permitting such claims to be set up is plainly
apparent. The master is the agent of the vessel and its owner
in more than the ordinary sense. During the voyage he is in
fact the alter ego of his principal. He is entrusted with an uncontrolled authority to provide for the crew, and for the preservation and repair of the ship. He engages the cargoes,
receives the freight, hires and pays his crew, and is entrusted
perhaps for years with the command and disposition of the
vessel. With full authority to bind the vessel, his position is
such that it is almost impossible for him to acquaint himself
with the laws of each individual State he may visit, and he has
a right to suppose that the general maritime law applies to him
and his ship, wherever she may go, unhampered by laws which
are mainly intended for local application, or for domestic vessels. Local laws, such as the one under consideration, ordinarily protect the ship by requiring notice of the claim to be
filed in some public office, limiting the time to a few weeks or
months within which the laborer or sub-contractor may proceed
against her, requiring notice to be given of the claim, before
the contractor himself has been paid, and limiting his recovery

OCTOBER TERMA,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

to the amount remaining upaid at the time such notice is received.
The statute of Washington, however, provides for an absolute
lien upon the ship for work done or material furnished at the
request of the contractor or sub-contractor, and makes no provision for the protection of the owner in case the contractor has
been paid the full amount of his bill before notice of the claim
of the sub-contractor is received. The finding in this case is that
the contractor, who had agreed in consonance with the usual
course of business, to make the repairs upon this vessel, had
been paid in full by the claimant. The injustice of holding the
ship under the circumstances is plainly manifest.
Not only is the statute in question obnoxious to the general
maritime law in declaring every contractor and sub-contractor
an agent of the owner, but it establishes a new order of priority
in payment of liens, abolishes the ancient and equitable rule
regarding "stale claims," and permits the assertion of a lien at
any time within three years, regardless of the fact that the
vessel may have been sold to a bona fide purchaser, not only
without notice of the claim, but without the possibility of informing himself by a resort to the public records. It also gives,
or at least creates the presumption of, a lien, though the materials be furnished upon the order of the owner in person.
No opinion upon this subject can afford to ignore the admirable discussion of Mr. Justice Story in the case of The
Chusan,2 Story, 455, in which he refused to apply to a Massachusetts vessel a law of the State of New York, requiring a
lien for supplies to be enforced before the vessel left the State:
" This statute is, as I conceive, perfectly constitutional, as
applied to cases of repairs of domestic ships, that is, of ships
belonging to the ports of that State. . . . But in cases of
foreign ships, and supplies furnished to them, the jurisdiction
of the courts of the United States is governed by the Constitution and laws of the United States, and is, in no sense gov.
erned, controlled, or limited by the local legislation.
For myself, I can only say, that during the whole of my judicial life, I have never, up to the present hour, heard a single
doubt breathed upon the subject." To the same effect is The
Lyndhvrst, 48 Fed. Rep. 839; Te Kate, 56 Fed. Rep. 614.

THE ROANOKF.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

While no case involving this precise question seems to have
arisen in this court, we have several times had occasion to hold
that where Congress has dealt with a subject within its exclusive power, or where such exclusive power is given to the
Federal courts, as in cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, it is not competent for States to invade that domain of
legislation, and enact laws which in any way trench upon the
power of the Federal government. Cases arising in other
branches of the law furnish apt analogies. The principle is
stated in a nutshell by Chief Justice Marshall in Sturges v.
Crowninshield,4 Wheat. 122, 193. "But it has never been
supposed that this concurrent power of legislation extended
to every possible case in which its exercise by the States has
not been expressly prohibited. The confusion resulting from
such a practice would be endless.

.

.

.

Whenever the terms

in which a power is granted to Congress, or the nature of the
power, require that it should be exercised exclusively by Congress, the subject is as completely taken from the state legislatures as if they had been expressly forbidden to act on it."
This was said of a bankrupt law of New York which assumed
to discharge the debtor from all liability for debts previously
contracted, notwithstanding the Constitution had vested the
power in Congress of establishing uniform laws on the subject
of bankruptcy. It was held that the States had a right to
pass bankrupt laws until the power had been acted upon by
Congress, though the law of New York discharging the debtor
from liability was held to be void as impairing the obligation
of prior contracts within the meaning of the Constitution.
In Hall v. DeCuiw, 95 U. S. 485, 498, it was said that, inasmuch as interstate commerce is regulated very largely by Congressional legislation, it followed that such legislation must
supersede all state legislation upon the same subject, and, by
necessary implication, prohibit it, except in cases where the
legislation of Congress manifests an intention to leave some
particular matter to be regulated by the several States, as, for
instance, in the case of pilotage. Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299. Upon this principle it was held that a law
of Louisiana excluding colored passengers from the cabin set

OCTOBEt TER,

190g.

Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

apart for the use of whites during the passage of steamboats
down the Mississippi, was a regulation of interstate commerce,
and therefore unconstitutional. To the same effect is Sinnot v.
Davenport, 2S How. 227. In the subsequent cases of Louisville &c. Railway v. .[ississippi, 133 U. S. 587, and Plessy v.
Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537, state laws requiring separate railway
carriages for the white and colored races were sustained upon
the ground that they applied only between places in the same
State.
In the very recent case of Easton v. Iowa, 188 U. S. 220, it
was held that a state law punishing presidents of banks receiving deposits of money at a time when the bank was insolvent,
and when such insolvency was known to them, was unconstitutional as applied to national banks whose operations were
governed exclusively by acts of Congress. Said Mr. Justice
Shiras (p. 231): "But we are unable to perceive that Congress intended to leave the field open for the States to attempt
to promote the welfare and stability of national banks by direct
legislation. If they had such power it would have to be exercised and limited by their own discretion, and confusion would
necessarily result from control possessed and exercised by two
independent authorities." See also Farmers'&c. Bank v. Dearing, 91 U. S. 99; lcCulloch v. .faryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 425.
The following cases are also to the same general effect: -Degant v. .lio hael, 2 Indiana, 396; State v. Pike, 15 N. H. 83;
Lynch v. Claqke, 1 Sand. Ch. 583, 6-4; Jack v. ]artin, 12
Wend. 311; Ex vaie Hfill, 38 Alabama, 429, 450; People v.
ichigan, 401. Although it is equally true that
Fonda, 62
where Congress, having the power, has exercised it but incidentally, and obviously with no intention of covering the subject, the States may supplement its legislation by regulations of
their own not inconsistent with it. Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S.
137.
Bearing in mind that exclusive jurisdiction of all admiralty
and maritime cases is vested by the Constitution in the Federal
courts, which are thereby made judges of the scope of such
jurisdiction, subject, of course, to Congressional legislation, the
statute of the State of Washington, in so far as it attempts to

UNITED STATES, 0. NIX.
Syllabus.

189 U. S.*

control the administration of the maritime law by creating and
superadding conditions for the benefit of a particular class of
creditors, and thereby depriving the owners of vessels of defences to which they would otherwise have been entitled, is an
unlawful interference with that jurisdiction, and to that extent
is unconstitutional and void.
The decree of the District Court is therefore reversed, and the
case remanded to that court with directions to dismiss the

libels.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

concurred in the result.

UNITED STATES v. NIX.
NIX v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 142, 195. Submitted December 18, 1902.-Decided MNarch 2, 1903.
1. Under sec. 829, Rev. Stat., a United States marshal may elect to be reimbursed his actual travelling expenses incurred in serving writs, but
there is no authority in law for allowing him mileage in excess of the
distance from the place of arrest to the place of receiving the writs, even
if the travel is in a new and unsettled Indian country and there are exceptional difficulties to overcome.
2. Where a United States court is opened for business by order of the
judge, it is the duty of the marshal to attend and he is entitled to his
per diem fee therefor whether the judge be present or not.
3. A general act is not to be construed as applying to cases covered by a
prior special act on the same subject. The marshal for the District of
Oklahoma is entitled to fees for transportation of prisoners arrested under
warrants issued by United States commissioners as fixed by the statute
providing atemporary government for the Territory of Oklahoma, notwithstanding the provisions of the act of Congress of August 19, 1894, applicable to marshals generally throughout the country. The fact that a
marshal's accounts have been approved by a district judge is sufficient to
cast upon the government the burden of showing any error of fact in his
account.
4. Where the marshal charged for travel in transporting a prisoner who

