HENNE$SY v. R10I4ARD)SON DRUJG CO.
189 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

cepted the view of that court as to the absence of infringement
if primary invention did not exist. We are content with that
conclusion.
Decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed; decree of
the Circuit Court afflpned, and mandate to that court accordingly.

HENNESSY v. RICHARDSON DRUG COMPANY.
APPEAL FROMf THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 203. Argued March 12, 1903.-Decided 'March 23, 1903.

An averment in a bill that the complainants are "all of Cognac in France,
and citizens of the Republic of France," is sufficient to give the Circuit
Court of the United States for Nebraska jurisdiction in a controversy
where the defendants are citizens of Nebraska. No averment of alienage is necessary.
Where the Circuit Court dismisses a bill on the ground that it has no jurisdiction because diversity of citizenship did not appear, and certifies this
question of jurisdiction, that is the only question for the consideration
of this court on an appeal under the first subdivision of section 5 of the
Judiciary Act of March 3,1891, and if jurisdiction is found to exist the
case will be remanded to be heard on the merits, notwithstanding the
Circuit Court also expressed the opinion that the bill was without
equity.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Xr. Adolph L. Pincofs for appellants, with whom -Mr.
James 1. Hopkins and 31r. Richard S. Horton were on the

brief.
I. The Constitution and the Judiciary Act provide that the
Federal courts shall have jurisdiction as to controversies where
the necessary jurisdictional amount is involved "between citizens of a State and foreign States, citizens, or subjects thereof."
The complaint alleges that complainants are all citizens of the
Republic of France which clearly and indubitably complies

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellants.

189 U. S.

with the statutory provision. It would not have been sufficient
to allege that the complainants are aliens but the allegations
must be to the effect, as was done here, that they are either
citizens or subjects of a foreign State. Wilson v. City Bank, 3
Sumner, 422. The cases cited by the learned judge below in
no way indicate that this allegation is insufficient. Stuart v.
Easton, 156 U. S.46, distinguished as holding that the fact of
alienage must affirmatively appear and that the allegation that
a party is a citizen of the city ol London is not sufficient, because, as was suggested by Lacom be, J., in the case of Betancouirt
v. A R. F. life Assn., 101 Fed. Rep. 305, London is not a free
and independent country,-not a State within the meaning of
that word as used in the Constitution and Judiciary Act. That
case, therefore, is in no way an authority in support of the
proposition that the allegation that the party is a citizen of the
Republic of France, which is a free and sovereign State, is insufficient to show jurisdiction where the defendant, as in this
case, is a citizen of a State of the Union.
The case of ]?ondot v. Town s/rip of Rogers, '19 Fed. Rep.
676, held that an allegation that the complainant was a resident of Ontario, Canada, and a citizen of the Dominion of
Canada and of the Empire of Great Britain was insufficient.
It is unnecessary to discuss whether that case was properly
decided and did not extend the doctrine laid down by this
court beyond its original limits. It might be said in support
of it that it is improper to allege that a person who resides in a
monarchical government is a citizen but that the proper allegation would be that he is a subject of the monarch to whom he
owes allegiance. In our case, as France has a republican form
of government, the allegation that he is a citizen of such
government, is sufficient.
The distinction here insisted upon between the words "citizen" and "subject" is recognized by this court in the case of
United States v. long Kimnr Arkc, 169 U. S. 649, 662, 664,
which cites with approval United States v. Rhodes, 1 Abb.
U. S. 28, in which it is said "all persons born in the allegiance of the King are natural born subjects and all persons
born in the allegiance of the United States are natural born

HENNESSY v. RICHARDSON DRUG CO.
189 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

citizens." Also citing State v. Manuel, 4 Dev. & Bat. 20, 24,
26: "The term citizen in our law is precisely analagous to the
term subject in the common law and the change of phraseology
has entirely resulted from the change of government. The
sovereignty has been transposed from one man to the collective
body of the people and a subject of the King is now a citizen
the State."
Judge McPherson interprets the words "citizens or subjects"
as if they read "citizens and subjects." While it is true that
sometimes the word " or " may be changed to " and " in interpreting a statute, this is only so where the word "and" as
used would lead to absurd results and would be clearly contrary to the intention of the legislature. Endlich on Statutes,
sec. 305.
In this case no such necessity exists, as the meaning of the
statute is perfectly clear and we venture to say has never before,
as to this point, been doubted.
II. If it is held by this court that the allegation of the citizenship of complainants was sufficient, it is clearthat the burden
of proving such allegation to be untrue is on the defendant.
This is so even if the objection to the jurisdiction has been
properly taken by the defendant. Adams v. Shirk, 117 Fed.
IRep. 801, and cases cited.
In the case at bar there was no plea to the jurisdiction or
plea in abatement, nor was the objection to the jurisdiction
raised in the answer. No evidence contradicting the allegation
as to the citizenship of appellants was introduced by defendants. The court'acted on its own motion. In order to justify
this action it must appear from the record that the suit did not
involve a controversy of which the court could properly take
cognizance. Act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 472; .X7oris v.
Gilmer, 129 U. S. 315 ; Anderson v. Watt, 138 U. S. 694.
The only evidence in this record bearing on the subject is
the statement by the appellants (page 11) that they reside in
Cognac, France. Even if the burden were on the complainants
to prove the correctness of that allegation as to their citizenship,
proof of their residence in France would be Primafacie sufficient. Shelton v. Tiffin, 6 How. 163; Eeress Company v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellants.

189 U. S.

fountze Bros., 8 Wall. 342; Collins v. City of Ashland, 112
Fed. Rep. 175.
III. The court erred in assuming to pass on the merits after
it had determined the question that it had no jurisdiction and
its attempt to do so must be treated as a mere nullity. While
we disclaim any intention to argue the merits of this case before this court, we wish to say that it is difficult to see how the
court below could have come to any other conclusion but that
complainants were entitled to at least an injunction where it
finds that the complainants have proved their trade mark beyond question; and that the defendants have sold goods bearing counterfeit labels, even if such sales were made in good
faith. Saxlehner v. Siegel Cooper Co., 179 U. S. 42.
In the amended decree the court, while dismissing the bill
for lack of the necessary jurisdictional allegations, "further"
dismisses it on the merits. And in the certificate, while certifying that it has passed on the question of jurisdiction, it states
that the merits have also been passed upon. The court had no
power both on general principles and in virtue of the express
provisions of the statute from which it derives its jurisdiction,
to pass on the merits after it had decided that it had no jurisdiction. Its attempt to do so must be treated as an absolute
nullity. Taylor v. Mutual Reserve Fund -Life Association, 97
Virginia, 60 ; Howard v. Kentucky & -Louisville Mutual Ins.
Co., 52 Kentucky, 282; Stough v. C. & N. TV . P. Co., 71
Iowa, 641 ; ray v. Dean, 136 Massachusetts, 128 ; Wheeler &
Wilson 3Ifg. Co. v. lV]itcomb, 62 New Hampshire, 411.
This court has consistently followed the principle here contended for. .2finnesota v. ilitchcock, 185 U. S. 373; AMetcalf
v. City of Watertown, 128 U. S. 586.
It has repeatedly reversed the decrees of the lower court
dismissing bills upon the merits in cases where such court had
no jurisdiction and has directed that the bill should be dismissed without prejudice. Barney v. Baltimore City, 6 Wall.
280 ; Kendig v. Dean, 97 U. S. 423 ; Parker v. Ormsby, 141
U. S. 81, 83; Zake County Commissionersv. Dudley, 173 U. S.
243.
The provision of the statute in virtue of which the court be-

HENNESSY v. RICHARDSON DRUG CO.
189 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

low acted fully recognizes this principle. The question of the
jurisdiction was not raised by the defendants and the sufficiency of the jurisdictional allegations was not challenged by
them. The court acted of its own motion. The sta-tutegiving
it such power expressly says that if in "any suit commenced in
the Circuit Court . . . it shall appear to the satisfaction
of said Circuit Court at any time after such suit has been
brought or removed thereto that such suit does not really and
substantially involve the dispute or controversy properly within
the said Circuit
.
.
the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court
Court s/allIroceed no further but shall dismiss the suit." Act
of March 3, 1875, chap. 137, sec. 5.
This provision has by numerous adjudications by this court
been held a salutary one and that it is the duty of the Circuit
Court to exercise their power under it in proper cases. WitCo.
liams v. Nottawa, 104 U. S. 209 ; E ecelsior Wooden Pie
v. Pacifio Bridge Co., 185 U. S. 282. It hasfurther been held
that the action of the Circuit Court is reviewable by this court
W7etmore
under the act of March 3, 1891, chap. 517, see. 5.
v. Rymer, 169 U. S. 115; Huntington v. Laidley, 176 U. S.
668; United States v. John, 155 U. S. 109.
Nor can any life be injected into such attempted finding on
the merits by the decision of this court that the court below
had jurisdiction. The purpose of the statute, as we argued, is
that the question of jurisdiction, if its existence is denied by
the court below, should be settled before the merits are touched.
The complainants, when they appealed on the jurisdictional
question to this court, as was their duty and right, could not,
even if they had wished to, have appealed to the Circuit Court
of Appeals on the merits, because the statute does not permit
of two appeals in the same case. .eZish v. Rof, 141 U. S.
661. They had a right to treat such decision as a nullity. If
any effect were given to it because the court below improperly
denied its own jurisdiction, it would follow that although they
followed the only course open to them, they might be deprived
by the lapse of time of the right given to them by statute to
have the decision on the merits reviewed by the Circuit Court

of Appeals.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellants.

189 U. S.

IV. On the point suggested on the argument, whether it was
sufficient to allege that the value of the trade mark sought
to be protected exceeded $2000, or whether there should have
been an allegation that the amount of the damage done by the
acts of the defendants exceeded that sum, the following cases
and text writers sustain the contention of the appellants, and pass
upon this exact point. Symonds v. Greene, 28 Fed. Rep. 834;
Hfennessy v. H16errman, 89 Fed. Rep. 669; Foster on Federal
Practice, ยง 16, p. 51. See also Hopkins on Unfair Trade,
p. 216.
While this court is not bound by any of these decisions, it is
submitted that they are based on correct principles and are
supported by the decisions of this court. They are merely an
application of the general rule, approved by this court, that in
an action for an injunction jurisdiction is determined by the
value of the right to be protected and by the values of the object to be gained. XfississiTpi & Jfissouri 1?. RI. Co. v. Ward,
2 Black, 485 ; -Market Co. v. lloffmann, 101 U. S. 112. See also
Hffumes v. City of Ft. Smith, 93 Fed. Rep. 862; -Delaware &
Lackawamna Ri. R. Co. v. Frank, 110 Fed. Rep. 689.
It appears from the pleadings in this case that the right to
the trade mark itself was put in issue by the defendants, and
that the right of the complainants to enjoy and protect their
trade mark, if they have any-without which it would be valueless-is challenged by charging them with the most atrocious
frauds.
It is clear, therefore, that the matter in dispute, the value of
which determines the jurisdiction of the court, is the trade
mark itself and the right to its enjoyment. Even, therefore, if,
in a case such as was suggested on the argument, where only
one bottle was sold, there might be some doubt whether an
allegation that the trade mark was worth more than $2000
would be sufficient, if, on the coming in of the answer, it appeared that there was no denial of the right of complainants to
their trade mark, but that the only question to be litigated was
whether or not defendant had made such sale, such doubt cannot exist in this case, where the defendant challenges the right
of complainants to their trade mark and their right to enjoy

HENNESSY v. RICHARDSON DRUG CO.
189 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

and protect it, without which it would be valueless, where
protection of such right is the object of the suit and where
injury and damage to complainants, were the contention of
fendants to prevail, would be the loss of such trade mark,
value of which is alleged to exceed $2000.

the
the
dethe

Xr&. Chiarles F. Tuttle for appellee.
The certificate contains matters other than questions of jurisdiction. The so-called certificate does not -contain a single,
definite, clear, specific question of jurisdiction.
It is so broad as to require a search of the record by this court to
ascertain what particular question of jurisdiction was involved.
This court will not make such a search, nor follow counsel
in such a search.
If this court will make such a search no particular, specific
and definite question of jurisdiction will be found.
No mere suggestion that the jurisdiction of the court was in
issue will answer.
Proceedings to this court were here dismissed for lack of a
proper presentation of a single, precise, specific question of jurisdiction in the following cases and they are favorably decisive
of all the above contentions: -fMaynard v. feclit, 151 U. S.
324; -Moran v. Hagerman, 151 U. S. 329; In 'e Lehigh Co.,
156 U. S. 322 ; Sheilds v. Colman, 157 U. S. 168 ; Interior Construction Co. v. Gibney, 160 U. S. 217; Van Wagenen v. Sewall,
160 U. S. 369 ; Chappell v. United States, 160 U. S. 499 ; Davis
v. Geissler, 162 U. S. 290 ; Huntington v. Laidley, 176 U. S.
668-676.
The first point made in the brief of appellants is that "the
Circuit Court erred in holding that the jurisdictional facts as
to the complainants' citizenship were not properly alleged."
If such a question arose on the trial it is not properly presented in this court.
However, if a search of the record be made, it will be found
that no such question was the real and substantial ground of
the decree and the assignment for that reason should not be
considered.
If, however, the assignment be considered it may be observed

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

that the jurisdictional facts as to the alienage of complainants
and their alleged partnership are not properly pleaded. Stuart
v. Easton, 156 U.'S. 46
The second point made in the brief of appellants that "the
court erred in holding that it was incumbent upon the complainants to prove the allegation of citizenship," like the first
point, is not properly presented for determination by this court.
It does not appear that the point was of controlling forcein the
trial court and should not be considered. But if considered it
will be found untenable, for the reason that, under the Code of
Nebraska, the answer takes the place of all pleas, whether general or special, in abatement or to the merits and the general
denial of appellee's answer put in issue appellants' jurisdictional
averments. Roberts v. -Lewis,144 U. S. 653.
The third assignment of error in appellants' brief that the
court erred in passing upon the merits of the case is not within
the field of this appeal. It does not involve any question touching the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. The assignment is
one not contemplated by the act granting the right of appeal
from Circuit Courts direct to this court.
The evidence before the trial court is not preserved in proper
form and is not before this court in any form.
The errors, if any, were without prejudice.
The decree rests upon an independent ground, broad enough
to maintain it, in which no question of jurisdiction was involved.
The decree is grounded upon the merits of the cause. The
evidence is not before this court. The opinion not being properly authenticated is no part of the record. No complaint is
made that on the evidence the bill should not have been dismissed. The merits of the controversy appearing to have been
fully heard and determined against the appellants the decree
therefore rests upon questions of fact and principles of law independent of and not involving a determination of jurisdictional
questions.
IR. CHIEF

TUsTicE

FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was a bill alleging that complainants were "all of Cog-

HENNESSY v. RICHARDSON DRUG CO.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

nac in France, and citizens of the Republic of France," and
that defendant was a citizen of Nebraska, and a resident of
the judicial district thereof ; that complainants owned and employed a certain trade mark for Hennessy brandy, (which they
produced, bottled and sold,) of a value exceeding two thousand
dollars, which trade mark had been properly registered in the
Patent Office under the act of Congress of March 3, 1881; and
that defendant was selling an imitation "Hennessy brandy,"
using facsimiles of complainants' trade name, devices and labels.
Injunction, profits, and damages were prayed for.
The case was brought to issue, heard on pleadings and proofs,
and dismissed, it being held that the court had no jurisdiction
because "complainants' citizenship or alienage is not alleged, as
required;" and also that the case was with defendant on the
merits.
The decree stated among other things : "And the court finds
that neither the bill, nor the bill as amended nor the evidence
shows the citizenship of complainants, or any of them so as to
confer jurisdiction upon this court. And the court further finds
with and for the defendants and against the complainants on the
evidence, and that the bill as amended is without equity. And
for both and all reasons hereinbefore recited," the bill was dismissed.
The court then granted a certificate in these words: "It is
certified that the question of jurisdiction referred to in the
opinion was passed upon-but that the case was also determined upon its merits. The question of jurisdiction set forth
in the opinion filed herein together with the question of the
merits of the case is hereby certified to the Supreme Court, all
of which are shown by the decree and the opinion."
An appeal was taken directly to this court under the first
of the classes of cases enumerated in section five of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, and we are shut up to the consideration of the question of jurisdiction alone. We do not understand that the amount in controversy was treated below as
having any bearing in respect of that question. The act of
March 3, 1881, provides for jurisdiction "without regard to the
amount in controversy," and the averment here was that the
VOL. cixxxix-3

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

value of the trade mark exceeded two thousand dollars. The
point, however, was not relied on, and we confine ourselves to
the question of jurisdiction as dependent on citizenship.
By the Constitution, the judicial power of the United States
d
extends to controversies between citizens of a State, "an foreign States, citizens or subjects." And by statute, Circuit Courts
of the United States have original cognizance of all suits of a
civil nature, at common law or in equity, in which there is "a.
controversy between citizens of a State and foreign States, citizens, or subjects." 25 Stat. 433, c. 866.
In Stuart v. Easton, 156 U. S. 46, it was held that by the description of plaintiff as " a citizen of London, England," the fact
that he was a subject of the British Crown was not made affirmatively to appear as required; but, in the case at bar, complainants described themselves as "all of Cognac in France, and citizens of the Republic of France," and this was sufficient.
No averment of alienage was necessary. It is true that by
section 6 of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, the judgments
and decrees of the Circuit Courts of Appeals were made final
in cases, among others, in which the jurisdiction was dependent
entirely on the opposite parties to the suit or controversy being
citizens of different States, or "aliens and citizens of the United
States." But the word "aliens" as there used embraces subjects or citizens of foreign countries, and not merely persons
resident in this country, who owe allegiance to another. And
the language of the Constitution and of the act determining the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts is explicit.
In Chishl b v. Georgia, 2 Dallas, 419, 456, Mr. Justice Wilson said that under the Constitution of the United States "there
are citizens, but no subjects. 'Citizens of the United States.'
'Citizens of another State.' ' Citizens of different States.' 'A
State or citizen thereof.' The term, subject, occurs, indeed,
once in the instrument; but to mark the contrast strongly, the
epithet 'foreign' is prefixed."
The Supreme Court of North Carolina in State v. Manuel, 4
Dev. & Bat. 20, 26, (quoted in United States v. Vong .Xi Ark,
169 U. S. 649,) said: "The term ' citizen,' as understood in our
law, is precisely analogous to the term 'subject' in the common

KIRWAN v. MURPHY.
189 U. S.

Syllabus.

law, and the change of phrase has entirely resulted from the
change of government. The sovereignty has been transferred
from one man to the collective body of the people; and he who
before was a 'subject of the King' is now 'a citizen of the
State.' "
In that view the people of France are properly described as
citizens of that Republic.
As complainants were citizens of a foreign State and defendant was a citizen of Nebraska, as affirmatively appeared from
the pleadings, no issue of fact arising in that regard, the Circuit Court had jurisdiction.
]Decree r'eversed and cause remanded for rehearing on the
merits.
]HENNESSY V. MOISE, No. 204.

MRit. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER.

HENNESSY v. MAY,No. 205.

These cases must take the same

course as that just decided, and the same decrees will be entered.

KIRWAN v. MURPHY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 161. Argued January 30, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.

Even if the making of a government survey, which could be made without
any material injury to soil or timber, involved a trespass, it would be of
so fugitive and temporary a character as to lack such elements of irreparable injury as would furnish the basis for equity interposition. Nor
will a bill of peace lie where the legal remedy is adequate, and where the
persons directly interested are not made parties, are not numerous, and
assert separate rights.
The administration of public lands is vested in the Land Department, and
its power in that regard cannot be divested by the fraudulent action of a
subordinate officer outside of his authority and in violation of the statute. The courts can neither correct nor make surveys. Thepower to do
so is in the political department of the government, and the Land Department must primarily determine what are public lands subject to sur-

