OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

189 U. S.

the Wisconsin court should have permitted this action to be
maintained, because of the principle of comity between the
States, is a question exclusively for the courts of that State to
decide. The right to maintain it under the facts of this case is
not founded upon any provision of a Federal nature, and we
cannot supervise the action of the Wisconsin court in this particular.,
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin must be
A ff red.
MR. JUsTIcE McKENNA did not hear the argument and took
no part in the decision of this case.
MR. JUsTicE BREWER dissented.

THAYER v. SPRATT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 207. Argued March 12, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.

On proceedings to cancel an entry which has been transferred, where the
Land Department has notice thereof, and the records show the name
and address of the transferee, the transferee has a right to notice.
Upon a writ of error to a state court this court has no right to review its
decision upon the ground that the finding was against evidence or the
weight of evidence.
It appearing from the facts that at the time of making their entries entrymen were entitled to purchase lands under the act of Congress of June 3,
1878, for the sale of timber lands in Washington Territory and elsewhere,
and that in the purchase of the land they fully complied with the laws
of the United States and the rules and regulations of the Land Department; that the applications were allowed and certificates duly issued as
applied for, and the lands included in the entries were at all times chiefly
valuable for timber thereon and at that time unfit for cultivation; and
that thereafter based upon a misconstruction of the act of 1878 the land
office cancelled the entries on the ground that as the land could be cultivated after the removal of the timber it was not subject to entry as timber land:

THAYER ?'. SPRATT.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Held, that the original entries were valid and that the conveyances of the
original entrymen passed a good title to their grantee for which he was
entitled to a patent from the United States.

THE plaintiffs in error in December, 1898, brought this action
in the state court against the defendant for the purpose of quieting their title to certain land described as section 32 in township 9, etc., situated in Cowlitz County, State of Washington.
They obtained judgment in their favor for the northwest and
southwest quarters of the section, but the court gave judgment
in favor of the defendant for the northeast and the southeast
quarters of the same section, and directed that the patents for
the two quarters of the section which had been issued on June 25,
1890, to plaintiffs' grantors should be held by the plaintiffs in
trust for the defendant, and that the plaintiffs should execute a
proper deed therefor, and in default of such deed of conveyance
the decree of the court was to stand and be treated in the place
of such deed. The plaintiffs appealed from that portion of the
judgment just described to the Supreme Court of the State,
where it was affirmed, 25 Washington, 62, and they have brought
the case here for review.
The northeast and the southeast quarters of the section were
entered in the proper land office in Washington under the act
of Congress approved June 3, 1878, and entitled " An act for
the sale of timber lands in the States of California, Oregon, INevada and in Washington Territory." 20 Stat. 89. These entries were made on -May 26, 1883, and the entrymen, after payment for the land by them to the land office and the receipt of
a certificate of such payment, and about six months thereafter,
assigned and transferred the certificates to the defendant for a
valuable consideration paid to them by him. After such transfers had been made and a record of the deeds of conveyance
had also been made in the records of Cowlitz County, which
was the proper office, the Land Department informed the register and receiver of the land office at Vancouver, Washington,
that action had been suspended upon the entries based upon the
report of the special agent regarding the lands, and the department directed the register and receiver to give notice to the
original entrymen of a time and place when and where they

348

OCTOBER TERMP,

1902.

Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

might be heard, and in default that their entry would be cancelled. The department also stated that it appeared from the
report of its special agent that the lands had been transferred
by warranty deed of March 13, 1884, to the defendant, and it
therefore directed that notice should be given him as the transferee, but for some reason this direction was overlooked and
no notice was ever given defendant of the pendency of any proceedings towards the cancellation of the certificates or either
of them which had been transferred to him.
At the time he purchased the certificates the defendant resided in Alpena, Michigan, and resided there for thirty years,
and the deeds to defendant, which were on record, showed his
residence to be in that place.
The notices by mail to the entrymen were not received, the
letters to them being returned as "uncalled for," and so it
happened that there was no hearing before the Land Department upon the return of the order, and the entry was cancelled
in the absence of both of the entrymen and the defendant, the
transferee.
The action of the department was taken upon the report of
one of its inspectors, which was founded, as stated in the report
of such inspector, upon the fact that the land was not of the
character provided for in the act, for the reason that, although
covered by a heavy growth of valuable timber and chiefly valuable as such at that time, yet as it would be fit for cultivation
when the timber should be removed, it was on that ground
held that the land was not subject to entry under the timber
act of 1878, supra. This was the sole and only reason upon
which the Land Department rested its action in cancelling the
entries and certificates.
After their cancellation, certain homestead entries were made
upon these two quarter sections by Benjamin L. Hennis for the
northeast quarter, and by Ellis Walker for the southeast quarter,
patents were issued to them, and the plaintiffs deraign title from
those patentees.
Upon the trial evidence was given by the defendant as to
the character of his ownership; that he purchased the different
quarter sections in good faith from each of the parties who

THAYER v. SPRATT.
189

U.

S.

Statement of the Case.

had entered them, and without any agreement in reference to
the purchase before final proof, etc., and that he had never
heard of the entrymen before he made the purchase from them
through his agent, and paid them the sum of $800 for each
quarter section, (double the price paid for the land by the
entrymen to the government,) and that the total cost of the
land, including his expenses paid to his agent and to the parties
who made the locations, etc., amounted, as the defendant testified, to about $4400.
The defendant on the trial also gave evidence tending to
show that the land in question had the finest quality of timber
on it, and that in its then existing condition the land was chiefly
valuable for timber and would probably run 200,000 feet to
the acre. The land would have to be cleared and then it might
le cultivated, but it would all have to be cleared first.
It was stipulated between the parties, on the trial, that certain papers named and on file in the office of the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, and certain exhibits from the land
office in Vancouver, in the State of Washington, relating to
the proceedings in making the entry for the lands in question
by the defendant's grantors, might be regarded as in evidence
in the case and be considered by the court, and the copies of
such papers then presented to the court were'admitted to be
"correct, full, true and complete transcripts of all proceedings of the land office at Vancouver, Washington, and of the
General Land Office, Department of the Interior, Washington,
the timber land entry of Frank
D. C., touching
Smith, for the northeast quarter of section 32 (etc.), and also
the timber land entry for the southeast quarter of section 32,"
etc. These papers showed that the entrymen for the northeast
and the southeast quarters were entitled to enter the lands under the timber act, and that all the necessary facts required by
the act and the Land Department officials had been proved by
them to entitle them to enter the specific lands.
The finding of the court shows there has never been any dispute as to the actual condition of the land, but the entries were
vacated and the certificates cancelled because the Land Department held the land was not of the kind to be entered un-

OCTOBER TER.1,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

der the timber act of 1878, for the reason that, after the
timber should be cleared, tho land would be good agricultural
land.

31r. Joseph Simon for plaintiffs in error.
Jtr. George C. Stoutt for defendant in error. 91r. John H
3jiitelidl and .Mir.T. -. T actd were on the brief.
MR.JUSTICE PECKHAII, after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The decision of the Land Department as to the character of
the land in question resulted from an erroneous construction of
the timber act of June 3, 1878. There was no dispute as to
the actual condition of the land, but the department held that
land so situated could not be entered under the timber act.
In this construction the department made a legal error. It
has been held by this court that the act included lands covered with timber, but which might be made fit for cultivation
by removing the timber and working the land. United States
v. Budd, 14-4 U. S. 154. Air. Justice Brewer, in delivering the
opinion of the court in the above case, states as follows:
"Lands are not excluded by the scope of the act because in
the future, by large expenditures of money and labor, they
may be rendered suitable for cultivation. It is enough that
at the time of the purchase they are not, in their then condition, fit therefor. The statute does not refer to the probabilities of the future, but to the facts of the present. Many
rocky bill-slopes or stony fields in -New England have been,
by patient years of gathering up and removing the stones,
made fair farming land; but surely no one before the commencement of these labors would have called them fit for cultivation. We do not mean that the mere existence of timber
on land brings it within the scope of the act. The significant
Trees groving on a tract may
word in the statute is 'chiefly.'
size as to be easily cleared
in
small
so
or
be so few in number
and general fitness for
present
its
affect
off, or not seriously to

THAYER v. SPRATT.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cultivation. So, on the other hand, where a tract is mainly
covered with a dense forest, there may be small openings scattered through it susceptible of cultivation. The chief value of
the land must be its timber, and that timber must be so extensive and so dense as to render the tract as a whole, in its present state, substantially unfit for cultivation."
The lands in this case are within that description. The evidence shows that the timber was excellent, as good as any in
that section of the country. It was as good as any ever examined by the witness, who had had large experience. In fact
he said there was none better in that part of the country, and
the quantity of the timber was large to the acre, but the land
was not especially valuable for cultivation until it had been
cleared.
Even though the decision of the Land Department was erroneous, yet having been made, and the entries and certificates
cancelled, although without notice to defendant, they could not
thereafter be used even asyrimafacieevidence of the validity
of the original entries. It was perfectly easy to have given
defendant notice of the proposed cancellation. He resided in
Alpena, M[ichigan, and the deeds showed that fact, and the record shows the department was aware of their existence through
the report of its special inspector. There is no hardship or inconvenience, therefore, in holding that, in a case, at least, where
the residence is known, the transferee has the right to notice.
If not known, a publication of notice ought at least to be made.
It seems this is the practice of the Land Department.
It has been held in this court, in Guaranty Savings Bank v.
Bladow, 176 U. S. 448, and Hawley v. -Diller,178 U. S. 476,
4S8, that a cancellation of a certificate of entry was not conclusive as against a transferee who had no notice and no opportunity to be heard upon the question of the original validity of
the entry, but that it left the transferee without the right to
use the entry certificate asprimafacieevidence of the validity
of the entry or of his subsequent claim. The transferee is, however, left free to prove the validity of the entry by any means
other than the certificate. Although the assignment or conveyance of the certificates did not transfer the legal title to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

lands described therein, yet the transferee or grantee thereby
became possessed of an equitable interest in the lands which
could not be taken from him without some notice. The character of the certificates as a mere means of evidence could be
and was destroyed, but the transferee was nevertheless not
thereby deprived of his right to show the validity of the former
entry.
In this case we think he has done so. He proved by his own
evidence that he was a bona fide purchaser of the property for
value paid to the entrymen, and that he had no agreement or
understanding of any kind with them prior to the time that he
purchased the land from them.
We do not refer to the bona fide character of the purchase
by defendant from the entrymen for the purpose of thereby
showing the defendant to be entitled to the benefit of that
character under section 2 of the timber act of 1878. The reason
that he is not so entitled is that by the assignment of the certificates he did not become clothed with the strict legal title to
the land, but simply with an equity, and the act does not cover
such a case. Hfawkey v. Diller, 178 U. S. 476, 487. We refer
to the bonacftde character of the purchase by defendant, for the
purpose only of showing it was without any prior agreement or
understanding with the entrymen, and was not in violation of
the provisions of the timber act.
The stipulation between counsel that the papers on file in the
Land Department might be regarded as in evidence and considered by the court, permitted the court to regard those papers
as properly introduced in evidence and competent to be considered by it in the further consideration of the case. Those
papers show a compliance on the part of the entrymen with all
the provisions of the timber act and a valid entry under it in
regard to the lands in question. As the entries had not been
cancelled for any fraud in fact, but only upon an erroneous interpretation of the law by the department, the evidence of such
error being apparent on the trial, the defendant did all he was
required to do in order to show the entries valid, and if the
plaintiffs wished to show any fraud in fact, to overcome the
case made by the defendant, they were called upon to do so,

THAYER v. SPRATT.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

otherwise, the original proof being sufficient to warrant the
issuing of the certificates, that proof would be regarded as sufficient on the trial of this suit.
There is not a word of any proof showing any fraudulent act
on the part of the entrymen or of their transferee, the defendant herein, and, on the contrary, there is proof of an absence
of any fraud and the boa fide purpose on the part of the entrymen to properly avail themselves of the act of 178.
But however this may be, we are precluded by the finding of
facts in the state court from looking at the evidence upon which
such findings may rest. Upon a writ of error to a state court
this court has no right to review its decision upon the ground
that the finding was against evidence or the weight of evidence.
Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S. 188; Gardner v. BonesteZl, 180 U. S.
362, 370; Bement v. 2?ational Earrow Company, 186 U. S. '0,
83; Jenkins v. -eVff, 186 U. S. 230, 235.
By the findings in this case it appears that the entrymen at
the time of making their entries were entitled to purchase the
lands under the act of Congress of 1878, and that they duly
made such application, duly verified by the oath of the applicants before the register of the land office, and that in the purchase of the land they fully complied with the laws of the
United States and the rules and regulations of the Land Department, and that all the requirements of the timber and stone
act in regard to making a legal and valid entry and purchase
thereunder were fully complied with by the entrymen, and that
thereafter the applications were allowed and certificates duly
issued as applied for, and the lands included in the entries were
at all times chiefly valuable for the timber thereon and at that
time unfit for cultivation. It was also found that the action of
the land office in cancelling the timber entries was based upon
a misconstruction of the act of 1878, and that the department,
by reason of such misconstruction, erroneously held that land
covered with a heavy growth of valuable timber, if it could be
successfully cultivated after the timber was removed, was not
subject to entry as timber land under that act, although the
timber on the land might be itself the chief element of the value
VOL. cLxxxIx-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

of the land, and the land could not be cultivated at all in its
then condition.
Upon these findings it is apparent that the defendant showed
the validity of the entries by his grantors, and that their conveyauces to him passed a good equitable title to the lands in
question for which he was entitled to a patent from the United
States, and that as such patent was granted to appellants, the
defendant was entitled to the relief given him by the judgment.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Washington is therefore
Affirmed.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.

CARLIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 222.

Argued March 20, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.

Where it is the special duty of the foreman of a gang repairing a bridge to
see that the track is unobstructed when a train is about to cross, although it may be the duty of the men to keep their tools off the track, it
is the foreman's duty to supervise them, and if, through his negligence,
the track is not left unobstructed and one of the gang is injured, such
negligence under the statutes of Texas in that regard is that of a viceprincipal and not of a fellow-servant.
Where the facts in the case are that the workman was injured by being hit
by a spike maul which had been left on the track and which was struck
and thrown by the engine, the fact that the foreman himself, who is to
some extent an interested witness, testifies that he had looked along
the track and saw no obstruction, is not sufficient to take the question
of his negligence away from the jury.

THE plaintiff in error brings this case here to review the

judgment of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit, 111 Fed. Rep. 777, affirming the judgment
in the Circuit Court for the Northern District of Texas, entered

