DE CAMBRA 7. ROGERS.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

facts constituting such alleged neglect are not stated. Besides,
we may observe that since the right of the settler attached in
virtue of his bonafbde occupancy of these lands before the railroad company made its selection, that right could not be displaced by reason of any delay or negligence upon the part of
the Commissioner to cause a survey of the lands. Theact contains no provision that requires a contrary view. The court
must determine the rights of the settler according to the facts
as they existed at the time his occupancy in good faith began.
The statute does not otherwise declare. In that view, as already suggested, the settler's right was superior to any right
acquired by the company, after the date of his occupancy, in
virtue of its selection of these lands to supply a deficiency in
the place limits.
Upon the authority of the case just decided, the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals must be
Afflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER took no part in the disposition of this
case.

DE CAMBRA v. ROGERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 170. Argued and submitted February 24,1903.-Decided March 16, 1903.

In an ordinary contest between two applicants for preemption, in which
the officers of the Land Department have decided upon the testimony in
favor of one and against the other, the decision of the Land Department
on questions of fact is conclusive upon the courts.

When the Secretary of the Interior has made a decision in such a contest
the courts will not entertain an inquiry as to the extent of his investigation and knowledge of the points decided, or as to the methods by which
he reached his determination.

ON April 28, 1897, Hannah Rogers and Frank J. Rogers,
holders of the legal title to a tract of land in Alameda County,

OCTOBE R T=RN,

190".

Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

commenced in the Superior Court of that county an action in
ejectment against Manuel S. De Cambra and others. The defendants answered with a general denial, and, as authorized by
the practice in California, De Cambra filed a cross complaint in
equity, alleging that the plaintiffs had obtained the legal title
wrongfully and held it in trust for him, and prayed a decree
quieting his title to the land. A demurrer to this cross complaint was sustained, and upon a trial of the action a judgment
was rendered in favor of the plaintiffs, which judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of California, 132 California, 502,
and thereupon this writ of error was sued out.
Submitted by Ir. J. C. Bates for plaintiff in error.
Argued by M. .Fpankl II. fackey for defendants in error.
MR. JusTicE BnwxP , after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question presented arises on the demurrer to the
cross complaint. That cross complaint averred that in 1867
De Cambra purchased from one Htewett Steele the premises in
controversy, with other adjoining lands, all of which were enclosed with fences and well-known exterior boundaries; that he
entered into actual possession thereof, and has ever since continuously resided thereon; that in 1871 he sold an undivided
half interest in the tract to Enos J. Rogers, the husband of
iannah and the father of Frank J. Rogers; that at that time
the land was supposed to be a portion of a Mexican grant, and
was within its exterior boundaries; that on August 10, 1878,
the final official survey disclosed that there were more than
three leagues of land within the exterior boundaries of said
grant, and thereupon a part thereof, including the land in controversy, was restored by the United States to the public domain; that De Cambra and Rogers, who were brothers-in-law,
agreed upon a division of the land excluded from the grant and
restored to the public domain, De Cambra to take one portion,
and that the tract in controversy, and Rogers the other; that

1TH CAITIBRA v. ROGtRS.
189 U. S

Opinion of the Court.

thereupon they went to the local land office to file their applications for entry; that De Cambra, being unable to read or
write, and understanding the English language very imperfectly,
trusted to Rogers to prepare the preemption papers; that Rogers
knowingly and fraudulently prepared the papers so as to make
De Cambra an applicant for land upon which there was no
dwelling house or other improvement, and only a small part of
which was in his possession and three fourths of which was
thoroughly worthless, Rogers himself filing a preemption claim
for the land which it had been agreed should be entered by De
Cambra, the land which was his homestead and upon which his
improvements had been made; that De Cambra did not discover this until December 29, 1883; that thereupon he made
the proper application at the land office for this land;' that a
contest ensued, which was finally decided by the Secretary of
the Interior in favor of Rogers, and the land patented to the
plaintiffs, his widow and son. The cross complaint further
averred that although the decision apparently rendered by the
Secretary of the Interior was signed by him, yet in fact for
want of time and opportunity the Secretary had not read or
heard read the evidence in the contested case, and simply signed
his name to a report prepared by one of the clerks in the department.
This cross complaint states no question of law decided in
these contest proceedings in the Land Department adversely to
De Cambra. Indeed, the grounds of the decision are not disclosed. There is no copy of the testimony given on the contest. It appears that De Cambra offered testimony showing
his qualifications, settlement, occupation, etc., and it is stated
that some evidence was given in support of the Rogers application. It is alleged that the land officers came to their conclusion " by the misconstruction of the evidence submitted to
them and the misapplication of the law to the evidence, and in
violation of the just and equitable rights and claims of Manuel S.
De Cambra." For all that appears, the officers may have
found the facts to be just the contrary to the averments in the
cross complaint; and if they misapplied any rule of law to the
testimony we are not advised of the rule they misapplied or

OCTOBER TERM.

1902.

Syllabus.

189 U. S.

how they misapplied it. As it appears affirmatively that, before the contest, De Cambra was informed of the nature of the
wrongs he alleges were perpetrated upon him by Rogers, it
may be presumed that evidence was offered by both parties
upon that question, and that it was decided adversely to his
contention. Under those circumstances nothing is shown except an ordinary contest between two applicants for preimption, in which the land officers upon the testimony decided in
favor of one and against the other. But it is well settled that
the decision of the Land Department upon questions of fact is
conclusive in the courts. Barfenning v. Chicago &c. Railway,
163 U. S. 321, 323, and cases cited; Johnson v. Drew, 171 U.
S. 93, 99; Gardner v. Bonestell, 180 U. S. 362.
It is hardly necessary to say that when a decision has been
made by the Secretary of the Interior, courts will not entertain
an inquiry as to the extent of his investigation and knowledge
of the points decided, or as to the methods by which he reached
his determination.
These are the only Federal questions presented, and their
decision was unquestionably correct.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California is
Affirmed.

EASTERN BUILDING AND LOAN ASSOCIATION '.
WILLIAM SON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 152. Argued January 28, 1903.--Decided March 23, 1903.

Courts of one State do not take judicial notice of the laws of another State,
whether written or unwritten. Statutes and decisions must be proved

as facts, but when proved their construction and meaning are for the
consideration and judgment of the court, and the fact that an attorney
of the enacting State has testified without contradiction as to the con-

struction of a law of that State does not conclude the court and make it
its duty to find as a fact that such was the true construction.

