OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

quires, independently of those points, an affirmance of the decree of the Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The decree is
Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE

BREWER

took no part in the disposition of this

case.

OREGON AND CALIFORNIA RAILROAD COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES. No. 2.
ATPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 187. Argued \Iarch 4, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.

On the authority of the preceding case, Held, that where a duly qualified

entryman made a bona fide settlement upon lands within the indemnity

the inlimit of the grant made by act of Congress of May 4, 1870, with
lands
the
enter
to
survey,
a
by
opened
was
way
the
tention, whenever
under the homestead laws, his rights were superior to those acquired, or
that could have been acquired, by the railroad company under any selection by it of indemnity lands made after the date of such settlement.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.Mr. .Xaxwell E'va'rts for appellant.
.M'. Assistant Attorney Russell for appellee.
MR. JusTIOE IARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The controlling question in this case is whether the United
States in 1893 erroneously issued to the Oregon and California
Railroad Company, which succeeded to the rights of the Oregon
Central Railroad Company, a patent for certain lands in
Oregon.
These lands are without the place and within the indemnity

OREGON &c. R. R. v. UNIrlD STATES.
189 U. S.

No.

.

117

Opinion of the Court.

limits of the grant made by the act of Congress of May 4, 1870,
c. 69, granting lands to aid in the construction of a railroad and
telegraph line from Portland to Astoria and MvcMinnville in the
State of Oregon. 16 Stat. 94. The provisions of this act were
substantially the same as those of the act of July 25, 1866, referred to in Oregon and California Railroad Company v.
United States, case No. 186, just decided, except that the act of
1870 contains a provision not found in the act of 1866, to wit:
"That the Commissioner of the General Land Office shall cause
the lands along the line of the said railroad to be surveyed with
all convenient speed."
The line of the proposed road was definitely fixed and a plat
thereof filed in the office of the Secretary of the Interior.
On the 16th day of February, 1872, the first twenty miles of
the contemplated railroad were completed from Portland to a
point near Forest Grove, in Oregon, and on the 23d of June,
1876, the road to the Yaaihill River, near McMinnville, was
completed, but it has never been constructed to Astoria, Oregon.
The final plat and survey of the township, in which the lands
in dispute are situated, was not filed and approved until July 27,
1893; and on that day the company's list of selections of
lands, which included the lands in question, were duly approved.
Prior to the year 1893, to wit, on the 12th day of January,
1891, Joseph H. Elison, a duly qualified entryman under the laws
of the United States, settled upon the lands in dispute with the
intention in good faith of "homesteading the same," and since
that date he has continuously resided upon, cultivated and improved them; and within ninety days from the date of the filing
of the township plat of survey he made application for "filing a
homestead" covering these lands.
The selections by the company having been approved by the
Land Department, a patent was issued to the Oregon and California Railroad Company on October 15, 1895. But it was issued without any knowledge at the time on the part of the
Secretary or the General Land Office of the adverse claim of
Elison, arising from his occupancy of the land.
For the reasons stated in the opinion just delivered in case

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

No. 186, we hold that, in virtue of Elison's bonafde settlement
upon the lands in dispute in 1891, with the intention, whenever
the way was opened by a survey, to enter the lands under the
homestead laws, his rights were superior to those acquired or
that could have been acquired by the railroad company under
any selection by it of indemnity lands made after the date of
such settlement. The company's selection did not displace or
defeat the right which the settler acquired by his settlement
made previously in good faith with the intention to avail himself of the benefits of the homestead laws within due time after
the lands were surveyed.
The railroad company rests its claim to have a superior right
to these lands on the ground in part of long delay by the Commissioner of the Land Office in having them surveyed, although
it frequently requested the survey to be made. There is nothing of substance in this contention. The statute, it is true, required the lands to be surveyed with all "convenient speed."
But the question as to the precise time the lands should be surveyed was exclusively for the Land Office to determine; and it
was to be determined with reference to all the facts and circumstances connected with the surveying of the public lands
under the direction of the Land Department. We cannot say
from the record that the Land Office, in the matter of the surveying of the particular lands here in dispute, did not act with
convenient speed. Besides, the railroad company accepted the
grant of Congress subject to the possibility of delay in the surveying, as well as to the power of the Land Office to determine
when the lands should be surveyed. The action or non-action
of the Land Department in such a matter cannot be controlled
by the judiciary, unless perhaps in a case in which it appeared,
beyond question, that its refusal to order the survey was merely
arbitrary and without any real excuse. It may be that in such
a case the Commissioner could be compelled by judicial process
to discharge the duty imposed upon him by statute. But upon
that point we need not express a decided opinion, for no such
case is presented by the record before us. The allegation in
the defendant's plea is simply that the Commissioner neglected
to perform his duty in the matter of the surveying. But the

DE CAMBRA 7. ROGERS.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

facts constituting such alleged neglect are not stated. Besides,
we may observe that since the right of the settler attached in
virtue of his bonafbde occupancy of these lands before the railroad company made its selection, that right could not be displaced by reason of any delay or negligence upon the part of
the Commissioner to cause a survey of the lands. Theact contains no provision that requires a contrary view. The court
must determine the rights of the settler according to the facts
as they existed at the time his occupancy in good faith began.
The statute does not otherwise declare. In that view, as already suggested, the settler's right was superior to any right
acquired by the company, after the date of his occupancy, in
virtue of its selection of these lands to supply a deficiency in
the place limits.
Upon the authority of the case just decided, the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals must be
Afflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER took no part in the disposition of this
case.

DE CAMBRA v. ROGERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 170. Argued and submitted February 24,1903.-Decided March 16, 1903.

In an ordinary contest between two applicants for preemption, in which
the officers of the Land Department have decided upon the testimony in
favor of one and against the other, the decision of the Land Department
on questions of fact is conclusive upon the courts.

When the Secretary of the Interior has made a decision in such a contest
the courts will not entertain an inquiry as to the extent of his investigation and knowledge of the points decided, or as to the methods by which
he reached his determination.

ON April 28, 1897, Hannah Rogers and Frank J. Rogers,
holders of the legal title to a tract of land in Alameda County,

