OCTOBER TEIHM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

was made the land in controversy had been reclaimed by the
California Dry Dock Company, and upon it were "extensive
warehouses," which had been built by that company, "and
wharves erected for the accommodation of shipping." The
property was so valuable that the plaintiff in error regarded
itself damaged by its withholding in the sum of $250,000, and
the rental thereof was alleged to be $5000 per annum. It is
not conceivable that the President, by his order, intended to
appropriate so valuable a property without explicit declaration,
or to leave the appropriation to result as "appurtenant" to the
rocks.
Judment affirmed.

CHATTANOOGA NATIONAL BUILDING AND LOAN
ASSOCIATION v. DENSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT CoURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 206. Submitted March 12, 1903.-Decided April 27, 1903.

The highest court of Alabama has held that under the constitutional and
statutory provisions of that State any act in the exercise of its corporate
functions is forbidden to a foreign corporation which has not complied
with the constitution and the statute in regard to filing instrument des-

ignating agent and place of business, and that contracts resulting from
such acts are illegal and cannot be enforced in the courts.
Held, that this applied to a building and loan association of Tennessee
making a loan in Tennessee secured by certain shares of its own stock
and also by mortgage on certain real estate in Alabama, and that although
the association bad complied with certain provisions of the law, the fact
that it had not designated an agent as required by the constitution and
statutes was a bar to the foreclosure of the mortgage in the courts of
Alabama.
SUIT to foreclose a mortgage given by the respondents to the
petitioner to secure a note for the sum of $5000, given as evidence of a loan made by petitioner to respondents. The petitioner is a building and loan association, and a corporation of
the State of Tennessee; the respondents are citizens of Ala-

CHATTANOOGA BUILDING &c. ASSN. v. DENSON. 409
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

bama. One of the defences of respondents is that the transactions were illegal because petitioner had not complied with
the laws of Alabama in regard to foreign corporations doing
business-in the State. This is the only defence with which we
are concerned. The Circuit Court rendered a decree foreclosing the mortgage, which was reversed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and the bill was directed to be dismissed. 107 Fed.
Rep. 777. The case was then brought here by certiorari.
The constitution of the State of Alabama provides as follows:
"4. No foreign corporation shall do any business in this State
without having at least one known place of business and an authorized agent or agents therein; and such corporation may be
sued in any county where it does business by service of process
upon an agent anywhere in this State." Constitution Alabama,
Art. XIV.

The material parts of the Code of the State passed in execution of the constitution are as follows:
"1316. Foreign corporation must file instrument of writing
designating agent and place of business in this State.-Every
corporation not organized under the laws of this State shall,
before engaging in or transacting any business in this State,
file an instrument of writing, under the seal of the corporation
and signed officially by the president and secretary thereof,
designating at least one known place of business in this State
and an authorized agent or agents residing thereat; and when
any such corporation shall abandon or change its place of business as designated in such instrument, or shall substitute another agent or agents for the agent or agents designated in
such instrument of writing, such corporation shall file a new
instrument of writing as herein provided, before transacting
any further business in this State." Code Alabama, 1896.
"1318. Unlawful for foreign corporation to transact business
in this State before declaration filed; penalty.-It is unlawful
for any foreign corporation to engage in or transact any business in this State before filing the written instrument provided
for in the two preceding sections; and any such corporation
that engages in or transacts any business in this State without
complying with the provisions of the two preceding sections

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 Ti. S.

shall, for each offence, forfeit and pay to the State the sum of
one thousand dollars.
"1319. Unlawful to act as agent of foreign corporation before such declaration is filed; penalty.-It is unlawful for any
person to act as agent or transact any business, directly or indirectly, in this State, for or on behalf of any foreign corporation which has not designated a known place of business in this
State and an authorized agent or agents residing thereat, as required in this article; and any person so doing shall, for each
offence, forfeit and pay to the State the sum of five hundred
dollars." Code Alabama, 1896.
There was no point made on the by-laws of the association,
and by agreement they were omitted from the record on appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals and are also omitted here.
And it was also stipulated "that the complainant is a corporation chartered and organized under and in accordance with the
public statutes of the State of Tennessee, authorizing the creation of corporations for carrying on the business of building
and loan associations; that its principal office and place of business is, and was at the time the loan involved in this case was
made, and has ever since continuously been, in the city of Chattanooga, State of Tennessee; and that the loan to defendant,
William T. Denson, involved in this case was made in accordance with the power and authority conferred on complainant
by its charter, and in the manner prescribed by its by-laws."
The note executed by respondents was as follows:
10, 1895.
CHaTrNooGA, TENINESSEE, Jne
"$5000.00.
to pay the
promise
I
date
from
years
"On or before nine
at its
Association,
Loan
and
Chattanooga National Building
with
dollars
thousand
five
home office, Chattanooga, Tennessee,
rate
the
at
dollars,
hundred
interest on the sum of twenty-five
monthly.
payable
of six per cent per annum,

"It is further understood that this note is made with refer-

ence to and under the laws of the State of Tennessee, and if
paid before seven years from this date such rebate from the premium included herein will be allowed as the board of directors
of said association shall deem equitable."

CHATTANOOGA BUILDING &c. ASSN. v.DENSON. 411
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The omitted part recited that the note was for money borrowed on fifty shares of stock, and expressed certain conditions
of the non-payment of the note when due, or the non-payment
of premiums or assessments; and also expressed the right of
petitioner in case of such non-payments to collect the debt
though not due and to foreclose the mortgage. The mortgage
covered lots in the city of Gadsden, Elowah County, State of
Alabama. It repeated the note and its conditions and contained
others. The facts connected with the execution of the note
and mortgage are stated by the Circuit Court of Appeals as
follows:
"The complainant below, the Chattanooga National Building
and Loan Association, is, and was at the time the loan to Mr.
Denson was made, a corporation under the laws of the State of
Tennessee, with its principal office in the city of Chattanooga,
in that State. Among its corporate functions was the authorization, and, so far as we are advised, its sole business was, to
loan its funds to its stockholders on real estate security. It had
no local office or agent in Alabama., but it had a traveling agent,
whose business it was to solicit subscriptions to its stock, and
to obtain applications for loans, and submit the same to the
home office of the association at Chattanooga.
"On the 25th of April, 1895, appellant Denson, who was a
resident of Gadsden, Alabama, on the suggestion and at the
solicitation of the agent, signed at that place a written application for fifty shares of stock in the association, complainant
below, appellee in this court. This application was forwarded
by the agent to whom Mr. Denson delivered it to the home
office, where the stock was issued, and returned to the agent,
to be by him delivered to Mr. Denson. On the same day on
which he applied for his stock, Mr. Denson signed a written
application to the association for a loan of $2500 on fifty shares
of stock he had applied for. He offered a premium of $2500
for the loan, and proposed to secure the loan and premium, if
his application should be granted, by a mortgage on certain
real estate in Gadsden, Alabama, which he represented to be
of the value in a of about $9000. This application was accompanied by the report of two parties, selected by the associa-

OCTOBER 'rERAI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

tion, fixing the value of the property which Denson proposed
to mortgage at $8000, and the certificate of an attorney, also
selected by the association, with reference to the condition of
the title. This application was forwarded by the agent to the
home office in Ohattanooga, where it was submitted, along with
other applications, to the board of directors, by whom the application was granted, and the loan directed to be made in
accordance with the charter and by-laws of the association.
Thereupon a note and deed of trust were prepared at the home
office, and were sent to the agent by whom Mr. Denson's application had been taken and forwarded; and at the same time the
check of the association on the Chattanooga National Bank of
Chattanooga, Tennessee, in favor of W. I. Denson, for the sum
of $2367.50, was sent to one D. P. Goodhue, of Gadsden, with
instructions to him to deliver said check to Mr. Denson when he
should have executed and delivered the note and deed of trust.
Upon the execution of the note and deed of trust by Denson and
wife, and the delivery of the same to the agent, all at Gadsden,
Alabama, the agent delivered to Denson the check for $236'(.50,
directing him to present the same to the First National Bank
of Gadsden, which would pay the same. The check was presented to the said bank, and the face thereof paid over to Denson, as the cashier said, ' under an understanding with the said
Building and Loan Association, and that the Chattanooga National Bank, on which the check was drawn, would pay the
same on presentation.'"
And the following testimony of the secretary of the association was quoted:
"At the time the loan to defendant Denson was made, complainant association had been for some time soliciting subscriptions to stock and receiving applications for loans in the State
of Alabama, and had paid a tax or license fee required under
the laws of the State of Alabama for foreign corporations proposing to do business in that State ; and complainant's officers
supposed and understood that the payment of this fee or tax
was the only condition with which it was necessary for them
to comply in order to be entitled to do business in that State.
Subsequently, however, and some months after the loan to de-

CHATTANOOGA BUILDING &c. ASSN. v. DENSON. 413
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fendant Denson was made, complainant was informed by an
attorney in the State of Alabama that the Alabama statutes
required foreign corporations doing business in Alabama to designate a local agent on whom process against the association
could be served, and also alocal place of business in that State.
Thereupon complainant promptly designated such local agent
and place of business, and continued up to the second of October, 1899, to pay the license tax or fee required of non-resident
corporations doing business in Alabama, and to keep a local
agent and place of business in that State."
M1r. Robert Pritchardand .2P.T. B. Sizer for petitioner.
X1r. Oscar TV. Underwood and X1. William I. -Denson for
respondents.
MP.JUScICE
xxA, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented by the case is, did the loan made by
petitioner and the taking for security the note and mortgage
under the circumstances presented by the record constitute a
doing of business in the State, within the meaning of the constitution and laws of the State ?
It was said by the Supreme Court of Alabama, Beard v. The
Union & Amelican Publishing Comjany, 71 Alabama, 60,
that to constitute a doing of business within the State "there
must be a doing of some of the works, or an exercise of some
of the functions, for which the corporation was created." It
was held, however, that receiving a subscription to a newspaper, or collecting the money therefor was not doing business
in the State "within the principle." In a subsequent case,
Dudley v. Collier & Pinckard,87 Alabama, 431, the court announced that "a loan or borrowing of money by or from" a
foreign corporation is a doing of business within the State, and
"is an unlawful act, subjecting both the agents and company
to a heavy penalty." The provisions of the statute prescribing
penalties were considered, and their effect was declared to be
not only to punish offenders against the statute but to render

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

their contracts void. Many cases were cited in support of the
conclusion as a proper deduction from the imposition of the
penalties. And the principle was applied to make illegal a
contract with an agent for services rendered in procuring a
loan for the use of the corporation.
In Farriorv. NYew England i3fortgage Security Co., 88 Alabamna, 275, it was said that the constitution prohibited the making of a single contract or the doing of a single act of business
by a foreign corporation in the exercise of a corporate function,
as well as the engaging in or carrying on its business generally.
To the same effect are 3ullens v. American Freehold L-and
MXortgage Co., 88 Alabama, 280; Ginn v. .ew -England -ortgage Security Co., 92 Alabama, 135; Sullivan v. Sullivan Timber Co., 103 Alabama, 371.
These cases constitute an interpretation of the constitutional and statutory provisions, and clearly hold that any act
in the exercise of corporate functions is forbidden to a foreign
corporation which has not complied with the constitution and
statute, and that the contracts hence resulting are illegal and
cannot be enforced in the courts.
The petitioner is a building and loan association. Its corporate purpose is to lend money to its stockholders. The respondent Denson was one of its stockholders, and manifestly, regarding the essence of the transactions between them, they
constituted a doing of business within the State of Alabama.
But, it is insisted, that on account of the form and terms of the
instruments and by operation of law the loans must be regarded as having been made in Tennessee. It is said: "The
note and mortgage were drawn in Tennessee, and by their express terms were payable there. The note is dated on its face
at Chattanooga, Tennessee, and expressly stipulates that it ' is
made with reference to and under the laws of Tennessee."'
And further, that the petitioner's part of all the transactions
was performed in the State of Tennessee, "and only those
acts which the borrower was required to do as a condition recedent to the loan of the money to him were performed in Alabama." It is hence deduced that the business done must be
regarded as having been done in Tennessee,

CHATTANOOGA BUILDING &c. ASSN. v. DENSON. 415
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Counsel has discussed at some length the situs of contracts
and by the law of what place their obligation is determined.
We think, however, that the discussion is not relevant. It
withdraws our consideration from the constitution and statute
of Alabama; and, it is manifest, the contention based upon it,
if yielded to, would defeat their purpose. The prohibition is
directed to the doing of any business in the State in the exercise of corporate functions; and there can be no doubt that petitioner considered that it was exercising such functions in the
State. Its secretary testified that "at the time the loan to defendant Denson was made complainant association had been for
some time soliciting subscriptions to stock and receiving applications for loans in the State of Alabama, and had paid a tax
or license fee required under the laws of the State of Alabama
for foreign corporations proposing to do business in that State,
and complainant's officers supposed and understood that the
payment of this fee or tax was the only condition with which
it was necessary for them to comply in order to be entitled to
do business in that State." The application of Denson was
presumably solicited as other applications were, and if what
was done in pursuance of it did not constitute doing business
in the State, the effect would be, as expressed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, that petitioner "and other foreign associations engaged in the same business of loaning money on real
security, may safely flood the State of Alabama with soliciting
agents, make all the negotiations for loans, take real estate securities therefor, and fully transact all other business pertaining to their corporate functions as though incorporated therein,
and yet neither be obliged to have a known place of business
or any authorized agent within the State, nor pay any license
tax or fee, as required of non-resident corporations doing business therein."
The case of Fritts v. Palmer, 132 U. S.282, does not relieve
from the effect of the Alabama decisions and from the necessity
of following them. The action was ejectment to recover certain
real property in Colorado. The title of one of the parties was
derived through the Comstock Mining Company, a Missouri corporation, which, before its purchase of the property, had been el-

OCTOBEIR TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

gaged in the prosecution of its mining business in the State, but
it had not complied with the constitution and statutes of the
State prescribing the terms upon which foreign corporations
might do business in the State. The constitutional provision
was substantially like that of Alabama, but the statutes were
materially different, and, besides, there had been no decision of
the Supreme Court of Colorado interpreting the statutes. The
only penalty expressed in the statutes was the imposition of
personal liability upon the officers, agents and stockholders of
the corporation for any and all contracts made within the State
during the time the corporation was in default. It was held
that the fair implication was that "in the judgment of the legislature of Colorado, this penalty was ample to effect the object
of the statutes." And it was said that it was not for the judiciary, at the instance of or for the benefit of private parties, to
forfeit property which had been conveyed to the corporation
and by it to others. Fritts v. Painer,therefore, was but the
interpretation of a particular statute, and there is not a word
in it which denies or questions the power of a State to make
void the contracts of a foreign corporation which is doing business in the State in violation of its laws.
It is urged by petitioner that it thought it had complied with
the law of Alabama, and it was not an intentional offender
against it, and, therefore, should not be "repelled from court."
But the latter consequence has been decided to result from noncompliance with the statute, and we cannot grant an exemption
from it. The statute makes no distinction between an inadvertent and a conscious violation of its provisions, and a familiar
legal maxim precludes a defence based on that distinction. Nor
can the payment of the license fee be urged as a justification
for omitting to comply with the statute. Such payment was
one condition to be performed by a foreign corporation; the
designation of a known place of business and an authorized
agent was another, and was of so much importance as to be enjoined by the constitution of the State.
It is contended that this case cannot be distinguished from
Bed-ford v. Eastern Building & -Loan Association, 181 U. S.
227, and must be ruled by that case.

GORDON v. RANDLE.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

We think there is a marked distinction. In the Bedford
case the contract was legally entered into and was entitled to
be enforced. In the case at bar the contract was made in violation of the statute of Alabama, and it cannot, therefore, claim
the protection given to the contract in the other case.
Decree afirned.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissents.

GORDON v. RANDLE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLTBIA.
No. 229. Argued April 7, 1903.-Decided April 27, 1903.

Under the rules of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, the January terms begin on the first Tuesday of January. The effect of January 1
being a holiday, when it falls on Tuesday, is not to prolong an October
term which ends on December 31, and postpone the commencement of
the January term until January 8, but only to postpone the exercise by
the court of its duties until the following day.
It is too late, therefore, after January 1, to make a motion to prolong the
October term, which motion under the rules must be made before the
end of that term.
The rule prolonging the term is to be exercised when invoked; there is no
duty imposed upon the court to prolong the term of its own motion.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Xr. S. Herbert Giesy for plaintiff in error.
Conrad was on the brief.

Mr. Holmes

Xr. J J. Darlingtonfor defendant in error.
IMR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
The purpose of this writ is to review an order of the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columbia, made March 12, 1901,
denying a petition for mandamus to require Andrew C. Bradley,
at that time an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, to settle a bill of exceptions,
VOL. CLXXXIX-27

