BELL v. COMMONWEALTH TITLE INS. CO.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

BELL v. COMMONWEALTH TITLE INSURANCE AND
TRUST COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 191. Submitted March 10, 1903.-Decided April 6,1903.
Under section 828, Rev. Stat., and section 2 of the act of August 1, 1888, a
corporation engaged in the business of insuring titles to real estate has
the right, during office hours, to inspect and examine the indices and
cross indices of the judgment records kept by the clerks of the Circuit
and District Courts when such inspection and examination relate to current and depending transactions and are made at such times and under
such circumstances that they do not interfere with the clerk or his assistant in the discharge of their duties or with the exercise of the right of
other persons to have access to such indices and cross indices.

By section 828, Rev. Stat., clerks of the Circuit and District
Courts are allowed certain fees for searching records for judgments, decrees, etc., and certifying the results of such searches.
In the same section is this provision :
"All books in the offices of the clerks of the Circuit and
District Courts, containing the docket or minute of the judgments, or decrees thereof, shall, during office hours, be open
to the inspection of any person desiring to examine the same,
without any fees or charge therefor."
Section 2 of the act of August 1, 1888, 25 Stat. 357, reads:
"The clerks of the several courts of the United States shall
prepare and keep in their respective offices complete and convenient indices and cross indices of the judgment records of
said courts, and such indices and records shall at all times be
open to the inspection and examination of the public."
On December 28, 1896, the Commonwealth Title Insurance
and Trust Company commenced a suit in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
against Samuel Bell, clerk of that court. The company is engaged in the business of insuring titles to real estate, making

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

searches for liens and incumbrances upon the same, and issuing
certificates in respect thereto, and sought a decree giving to it
access to the judgment indices and cross indices kept by the
clerk. The case proceeded to a decree as follows:
" And now this sixteenth day of January, 1901, this case
having come on to be heard upon pleadings and proofs, and
having been argued by counsel, it is ordered, decreed and adjudged that the respondent shall permit the properly authorized representatives of the complainant to inspect and examine
the judgment indices and cross indices kept by the respondent,
as clerk of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, in such way and manner as will
enable the complainant to prosecute its business as insurer of
titles, but subject to the following restrictions:
"The inspection and examination must in each instance reat
late and be confined to a transaction or transactions which
insuch
and
the time being shall be current or depending;
spection and examination shall be made only at such times and
under such circumstances as will not interfere with the respondthe
ent or his assistants in the discharge of their duties or with
insaid
exercise of the right of other persons to have access to
dices and cross indices."
This decree was affirmed on September 27, 1901, by the
2
Circuit Court of Appeals. 110 Fed. Rep. 828. On December
of the same year the case was brought here on certiorari. 183
U. S.699.
.J1r.Solicitor General .Richardsand .Mr. Assistant Attorney
General Beeks for petitioner.
.1r. John G. Johnson for respondent.
MR. JUSTIox BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented is to what extent a company engaged
in the business of examining titles and certifying thereto may
the
have access to and use the indices and cross indices of

BELL v. COMMONWEALTH TITLE INS. CO.
189 U. S.

133

Opinion of the Court.

judgment records prepared by the clerks of United States
courts. The statute declares that they "shall at all times be
open to the inspection and examination of the public." This
company as one of the public has a right to this inspection and
examination. It has no monopoly therein and cannot interfere
with the clerk or his assistants in the discharge of their duties,
or with the equal rights of other persons to such inspection
and examination. But this limitation is expressly provided
for by the second of the two restrictions imposed in the decree. Under this decree the clerk, as custodian, can make such
reasonable regulations as will secure to him and his assistants
full use of all the books and records of his office-which, of
course, is a primary matter to be considered-and also will
guard against any tampering with or injury to those books and
records, and at the same time give to the plaintiff and others
access to the indices. From the testimony it is clear that
there can be no difficulty on the score of time or otherwise in
affording to this company and all others interested every
proper facility for inspection and examination. Indeed, it is
not contended that there is any trouble in that direction.
But the contention is that the office of clerk is not a salaried
office; that he is paid by fees; that the fees for searches and
certificates thereof have amounted to a very considerable sum,
and in this office have resulted in a surplus above the maximum
of compensation allowed by law to the clerk, which has gone
into the Treasury of the United States, whereas if this plaintiff
and other like companies situated in Philadelphia, which are
monopolizing the business of examinations of title, should be
permitted to make their own inspection and examination of
these indices, a large part of the fees hitherto received by the
clerk will be lost, his maximum of compensation will not be
reached, and there will be no surplus to be paid into the
Treasury of the United States. It is insisted that although by
the terms of section 828 the judgment records are open to the
inspection of any person without any fee or charge therefor,
Congress, in directing the preparation of the indices and cross
indices and that they should be open to the inspection and
examination of the public, did not add thereto "without any

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 D. S.

fee or charge therefor," and thus manifested its intent that
they should not be so used as to interfere with the fees theretofore received by the clerk. We cannot so interpret the
statute. If these indices were intended merely for the convenience of the clerk and to facilitate his work, the making of
them would undoubtedly have been left to his discretion. The
convenience of the public and assistance to those interested in
the judgments were obviously in the thought of Congress, for
it declared that they should be open to the inspection and examination of the public.
Very likely, at the time of the passage of the act, the monopolizing of the business of examining titles by one or two corporations was not contemplated. The work was scattered
among the separate members of the bar, each one for his own
client examining the title to property in which such client was
interested. But if Congress provided and intended to provide
that one, interested in the title to real estate and desiring an
examination of judgment liens thereon, should, either by himself or agent, have access to these indices, that intent and that
provision are not changed by the fact that the business has
passed from the many to a few. The same right of inspection
exists whether one is examining only the title to a single piece
of real estate or the titles to a hundred. The inspection is an
assistance to the examination of titles, and obviously Congress
intended that these indices should be open to the inspection of
those rightfully making such examinations.
Whether parties have a right to make copies in full of these
indices is not a question before us, for the decree carefully
limits the right of inspection to a transaction or transactions
at the time current or depending. So that all that this plaintiff is allowed by this decree is an inspection and examination
of these indices, so far as may be necessary to assist in the
examination of a title for which it is then employed.
We see no error in the decree, and it is
-Affirmed.

