LAND & WATER CO.
189 U. S.

b.

SAN JOSE RANCH CO.

177

Syllabus.

owing to the hatchway being insufficiently protected, The
Theta, 1894, P. D. 280, or to loss of life, The Vera Cruz, 9 P.
D. 96. As we have indicated above the statute was confined to
cases of damage done by those in charge of a ship with the
ship as the "noxious instrument," and that cases of damages
done on board the ship were not within the meaning of the act
of damages done by the ship.
In the case under consideration the damage was not done by
the ship in the ordinary sense of the word, but by a gangway,
which may be assumed to be an ordinary appliance of the ship,
being blown against the libellant by the force of the wind.
it results that the first and third questions must be answered
in the negative.

SAN JOSE LAND AND WATER COMPANY v. SAN
JOS] RANCH COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 113. Submitted December 2, 1902.-Decided MSarch 2, 1903.
Although no Federal right, title or immunity was specially set up or claimed
in the complaint, it is sufficient if it appears in the motion for new trial
and in the assignment of error in the state Supreme Court. In this case
italso appears from the opinion of the court that the question was whether
the plaintiff in error had brought itself within the scope of an act of Congress upon which it relied.
Under the rule of this court requiring opinions to be sent up with the record, it is a sufficient compliance with the words " specially set up and
claimed" that the Federal question was fully considered in the opinion
of the court, and ruled against the plaintiff in error.
A party who, on complying with the provisions of an act of Congress would
have the right to purchase lands, part of the public domain, but who has
not complied with the requirements of the act, is not entitled, upon the
mere showing of such right to purchase, to demand that its title be adjudged good and valid, and that another party who is in possession be
adjudged to have no estate or interest in the land, or that such other
person be enjoined from asserting any adverse claim, or that the claimant recover the possession of the land with the right of ousting the defendant from the improvements made thereon by its predecessors.
VOL. CLXXXIX-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

Tins was an action brought in 1889 by the Land and Water
Company, under the Code of Civil Procedure of California, to
quiet the title of the plaintiff and determine the nature of the
adverse claim of the defendant, to the half of a quarter section
of land, which had been sold by the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company February 28, 1887, to plaintiff's predecessors in title
as part of its land grant of 1871.
The case was tried in 1890, though the decree was not entered until 1897. The facts found by the court were substantially that the Southern Pacific Railroad Company had accepted
the benefit of a land grant made IIarch 3, 1871, to the Texas
and Pacific Railroad, filed its map of location April 3, 1871,
and on August 12, 1873, formed a new corporation, also imown
as the Southern Pacific Railroad Company; built and constructed a road from Tehachapi Pass by way of Los Angeles to
Yina, and selected the land in question under the act of
March 3, 1871 ; that such land was within the place limits of the
Southern Pacific, and also within the indemnity limits of a
land grant to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad by act of
July 27, 1866. This latter company never complied with the
terms of the grant and never built its road.
That on February 28, 1887, the Southern Pacific agreed with
two parties named Nolan and Heckenlively to sell them this
land, and after the receipt from the United States of a patent
therefor, to deliver them a deed; that by subsequent conveyances, and on August 29, 1888, the right of the grantees became
vested in the plaintiff, the San Jos6 Land and Water Company;
that the land is situated in San Dimas Canyon, through a portion
of which the San Dimas Creek flows; that prior to December,
1883, one Stowell claimed to own a water right in the waters
flowing down such creek, the character and extent of which the
court did not adjudicate, and about that time entered upon the
land and constructed across a portion of it a twelve-inch pipe
line for the purpose of conducting the water so claimed by him
from its point of diversion across said lands to other lands;
that prior to July, 1887, the San Jos6 Ranch Company, defendant, had, by mesne conveyances, succeeded to the rights of
Stowell, and also constructed upon such land, at a point where

LAND & WATER CO. v. SAN JOSE RANCH CO.
189 U. S.

179

Opinion of the Court.

the waters of San Dimas Creek flowed, a brick and cement
forebay, sand box or dam, and laid therefrom across a portion
of said land a fourteen-inch pipe line, both of which pipe lines
it claims the right to maintain, but makes no other claim of
right to such lands.
Upon this state of facts the Superior Court entered a judgment in favor of the defendant, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court. 129 California, 673. Whereupon the plaintiff
sued out this writ of error.
.MJr. I H. Anderson, ilr.James Anderson and .Mr. Richard
Dunnigan for plaintiff in error.
.Mr.John S. Chapman for defendant in error.
MR. TUSTicE BROWN, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
Motion is made to dismiss this writ of error upon the ground
that no Federal right, title, privilege or immunity was "specially set up or claimed" by the plaintiff in error, as required by
the third clause of Rev. Stat., sec. 709. None such appears in the
complaint, although we think it sufficiently appears in the motion for a new trial and in the assignments of error in the state
Supreme Court. It also appears from the opinion of the court
that plaintiff relied upon the act of Congress of March 3, 1887,
for the readjustment of land grants, 24 Stat. 556, and the question considered by the court, and upon which the case turned,
was whether the plaintiff had brought itself within the scope of
that act. This question was fully considered by the court, and
it was held that the defendant, having acquired its rights prior
to the act of 1887, must prevail against the right claimed by
the plaintiff.
While the right under the act of 1887, thus considered, was
not originally specially set up and claimed by the plaintiff, inasmuch as it was not an original right, but a right available in
rebuttal of the defence, it is one which appears to have been
insisted upon in the argument; and under the rule of this court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

requiring the opinions to be sent up with the record, it has
been frequently held to be a sufficient compliance with the
words "specially set up and claimed," that it was fully considered in the opinion of the court and ruled against the plaintiff
in error. .Xurdockc v. .fempliis, 20 Wall. 590, 633 ; Gross v.
United States -3rorigageCo., 108 U. S. 477; PhiladephiaFire
Association v. Yew York, 119 IT. S. 110, 115; Egan v. Hart,
165 U. S. 188; Sayward v. Denny, 158 U. S. 180, 184; 1fallett
v. North Carolina, 181 U. S. 589. These must be considered
as leading, under our change of rule, to a different result from
that reached in some prior cases, Williams v. N-orris, 12 Wheat.
117; Rector v. Ashley, 6 Wall. 142, and Gibson v. Chouteau,
8 Wall. 314, in which we held that the opinion of the state
court could not be resorted to for the purpose of showing that
a question of Federal cognizance was decided.
2. The case upon the merits presents but little difficulty. The
action is broughtunder see. 738 of the Code of Civil Procedure
of California, which provides that "an action may be brought
by any person against another who claims an estate or interest
in real property adverse to him, for the purpose of determining
such adverse claim."
The land in question was within the indemnity limits of the
land grant of July 26, 1866, 14 Stat. 292, to the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company. Plaintiff, however, claims nothing
under this grant, as the railroad company never complied with
its terms; never built its road, and the grant was forfeited by
act of July 6, 1886, 24 Stat. 123, and the land restored to the
public domain. The act, however, becomes pertinent in another
connection.
The land in question was also within the place limits of the
grant to the Texas and Pacific Railroad Company by act of
Mlarch 3, 1871, 16 Stat. 573, and subsequently became vested
in the Southern Pacific, which constructed the road and selected
the land in question, claiming it under that act.
It was held by this court, however, in the United States v.
South*ern Pacifie Railroad Company, 146 U. S. 570, that the
forfeiture of the Atlantic and Pacific grant of July 6, 1886, did
not enure to the benefit of the Southern Pacific, which held the

LAND & WATER CO. v. SAN JOSk RANCH CO.
189 U. S.

181

Opinion of the Court.

later grant of the same land, but to the benefit of the United
States, and thereby became a part of their public lands. In the
next following case, United States v. Colton Marble & Lime
Co., 146 U. S. 615, this ruling was extended to the indemnity
lands of the Atlantic and Pacific, which, upon forfeiture of its
land grant, also reverted to the United States.
Hence on February 28, 1887, when the Southern Pacific
Company contracted to sell these lands to Nolan and Heckenlively, it had really nothing to sell, and no interest in the land
that could pass under that agreement. There was a stipulation
in it to make a deed of the premises as soon as the railroad had
received a patent therefor from the United States; that it
would use ordinary diligence to procure such patent, and that,
if in consequence of circumstances beyond its control, it failed
to obtain a patent, it guaranteed nothing with regard to the
title, but agreed to repay everything which had been paid by
the grantees. There was a further agreement that the contract
should not be assignable except by endorsement, and with the
written consent of the company, and a written promise of the
assignee to perform all the undertakings and promises of the
grantees.
After making the first payment and paying the annual interest to February 28, 1892, the grantees ceased all further payments. The findings show that at the time of the execution of
the contract, "said tract of land was not in the bonafide occupation of any adverse claimant under the preemption or
homestead laws of the United States, and the same had not
been settled upon at the date of such purchase, or on the 3d
day of March, 1887, or subsequent to December 1, 1882, by any
person claiming to enter the same under the settlement laws of
the United States." That neither the grantees nor their assigns
ever settled upon the land, cultivated or fenced it, although
Heckenlively did, shortly after the purchase, enter upon the
land and begin the construction of a ditch and tunnel thereon.
Subsequently the land passed by intermediate conveyances to
the plaintiff. Manifestly, however, there was a clear failure of
title on the part of the plaintiff to maintain this action. The
Southern Pacific had no title to convey, and beyond this there

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

is no finding that the contract was assigned by endorsement or
with the written consent of the railroad company, or that there
was any promise on the part of the assignees to perform the
undertakings of the original grantees.
Plaintiff's claim to the land must rest, if at all, upon the act
of Congress of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 556, entitled "An act
to provide for the adjustment of land grants made by Congress
to aid in the construction of railroads and for the forfeiture of
unearned lands, and for other purposes "-the main purpose
of which act was to relieve bona fide purchasers from railway
companies of forfeited ]ands, by permitting such purchasers or
settlers to perfect their entries upon compliance with the public
land laws. By section 5 of this act, "where any said company
shall have sold to citizens of the United States, . . . as a
part of its grant, lands not conveyed to or for the use of such
company, . . . and where the lands so sold are for any
reason excepted from the operation of the grant to said company, it shall be lawful for the bonafide purchaser thereof from
said company to make payment to the United States for said
lands at the ordinary government price for like lands, and thereupon patent shall issue therefor to said bonaflde purchaser, his
The section, however, contained provisos
heirs or assigns."
excepting from its terms all lands which at the date of such
sales from the government were in the bona fAle occupation of
adverse claimants under the preemption or homestead laws, and
also of lands settled upon subsequent to the first day of December, 1882, by persons claiming to enter the same under the settlement laws of the United States.
There are two difficulties connected with the application of
this statute: (1) Assuming that Nolan and Heckenlively were
bona~fde purchasers in good faith from the government, which
indeed is a part of the finding, there is nothing to indicate that
they had ever made payment to the United States for the lands,
or ever applied to do so; nor does a patent ever appear to have
been issued to them. In short, the plaintiff relies upon the
statute without showing that anything was done under it.
(2) The provisions of this section do not apply to lands occupied
adversely under the preemption, homestead or settlement laws

LAND & WATER CO. v. SAN JOS]E RANCE1 CO.
189 U. S.

183

Opinion of the Court.

of the United States, and the finding in this connection is that
in 1883 one Stowell owned, or claimed to own, a certain water
right in the waters of San Dimas Creek, which flowed through
a portion of the land, the character and extent of which water
right the court did not find, and that in November of that year
Stowell entered on the land, laid and constructed across a portion of it a twelve-inch pipe line for the purpose of taking the
water across the land to other lands, probably for the purposes
of irrigation; and that in July, 1887, the defendant, which had
by mesne conveyances succeeded to this water right of Stowell,
entered upon the land and built and constructed thereon a stone,
brick and cement forebay, sand box or dam, and also a fourteen-inch pipe line across a portion of the lands. It still claims
the right to these improvements, but makes no other claim of
right, title or interest to the land or any part thereof.
The record does not show exactly how Stowell obtained his
rights to the waters of this creek, although the testimony sent
up with the record indicates that one iaynes settled upon the
land in question in 1869, and obtained a patent either in August
or September, 1878; that he used the water from the creek to
irrigate the land; made a dam and a ditch and ran it down to
the ranch; that he began using the water in iMarch, 1870, and
so used it up to the spring of 1878, when he obtained the patent,
sold to Stowell, and conveyed the land by deed.
Conceding, however, that, under the findings, we cannot look
back of 1883, when Stowell entered the land and laid a twelveinch pipe line there, under a claim of ownership of the water
right, we see no reason why he and his grantees are not protected by section 9 of the act of July 26, 1866, 14 Stat. 251,
which declares that, "whenever, by priority of possession, rights
to the use of water for mining, agricultural, manufacturing, or
other purposes, have vested and accrued, and the same are recognized and acknowledged by the local customs, laws, and the
decisions of courts, the possessors and owners of such vested
rights shall be maintained and protected in the same; and the
right of way for the construction of ditches and canals for the
purposes aforesaid is hereby acknowledged and confirmed."
Bearing in mind that these lands were from July 6, 1886, the

OCTOBER TERM, 190.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

date of the forfeiture, public lands, subject to the preemption,
homestead or settlement laws, and that at the time Stowell entered upon the land in question, and constructed a pipe line
thereon, (1883,) it seems to have been wholly unoccupied, we
think the fact that ileckenlively, under his agreement of purchase of February 28, 1887, and shortly after the same was executed, entered upon the land and began the construction of a
ditch and tunnel there, becomes immaterial, since there is a
finding that he never settled upon the land, cultivated or fenced
it, or'took possession of it, and no finding how long he continued
the construction of the ditch or tunnel, or the amount of work
in connection therewith. For aught that appears he may have
abandoned it immediately. There is no evidence that the
original grantees from the railroad company, or their successors
in interest, ever sought to take advantage of the act of 1887, or
ever applied to purchase the lands, or made payment to the
United States, or did anything whatever before the beginning of
this suit to indicate that they relied upon this statute. We
agree with the Supreme Court of California that the plaintiff
was not entitled, upon the showing of a mere right to purchase,
to demand that its title be adjudged good and valid, and that
the defendant had no estate or interest in the land, or that it
should be enjoined from asserting any claim adverse to the
plaintiff, or that it should recover possession of the land, with
the right of ousting the defendant from the improvements which
its predecessors had made thereon.
An inceptive right under the statute was an insufficient basis
of recovery. A party cannot rest forever on such a right, but
is required by the statute, before asserting it against innocent
third parties, to take some steps to perfect it. The litigation seems to turn really upon the respective rights of the
parties to the waters of San Dimnas Creek, and as defendant's
predecessors first appropriated them, and the plaintiff shows no
superior title, it cannot prevail against the Ranch Company.
In view of the uncertain character of the finding that ieckenlively did, shortly after his purchase, enter upon the land and
commence the construction of a ditch and tunnel thereon, we
axe unable to see how the case is affected by the fact that, in

THE ROANOKE.
189 U. S.

Syllabus.

July and August of the same year, the defendant entered upon
the land and constructed their forebay or dam, and laid a
fourteen-inch pipe in addition to the twelve-inch pipe which
Stowell had laid in 1883. We express no opinion as to the
possibility of the plaintiff maintaining a second action upon its
patent since obtained, or how far this case may, if at all, operate as res adjudicata in that.
There was no error in the decree of the Supreme Court, and
it is therefore
Affl'rned.
MiR. JUSTICE MCKENNA took no part in the disposition of this
case.

THE ROANOKE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 123. Submitted December 17, 1902.-Decided March 2, 1903.
The following propositions in regard to lien for supplies furnished to vessels may be considered as settled:
(1.) That by the maritime law, as administered in England and in this
country, a lien is given for necessaries furnished a foreign vessel
upon the credit of such vessel; and that in this particular the several States of the Union are treated as foreign to each other.
(2.) That no such lien is given for necessaries furnished in the home port
of the vessel, or in the port in which the vessel is owned, registered,
enrolled or licensed, and the remedy in such case, though enforceable in the admiralty, is -inpersonam only.
(3.) That it is competent for the States to create liens for necessaries
furnished to domestic vessels, and that such liens will be enforceb
by the courts of admiralty under their general jurisdiction on
the subject of necessaries.
Where, however, Congress has dealt with a subject within its exclusive
power, or where such exclusive power is given to the Federal courts, as
in cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, it is not competent for

