OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Petitioners.

189 U. S.

latter were provided for in section eight of the act of 1838,
which became section 4865, and as such has been given a place
in the compiled laws of the State ever since.
If it is anomalous, as urged by counsel and as observed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, for legal interest in the State
to be fixed at five per cent, and judgments left to bear seven
per cent, we cannot correct the anomaly. Nor can we regard
the words "interest of money" to have been suddenly given a
meaning in 1891 or 1899 different from that which they had
borne for over fifty years in the statutes of the State with the
intention to work by implication the repeal of a provision with
which for the same length of time they were regarded as
consistent.
Decree aftrmed.

ZANE v. HAMILTON COUNTY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 115. Argued and submitted December 5, 1902.-Decided April 6, 1903.
Where the highest court of a State has decided that the act of the legislature under which bonds were issued by a county is unconstitutional and
such decision is in conformity with the prior decisions of that court, the
bonds, having been illegally issued, do not constitute a contract which
is protected by the Constitution of the United States.

TIE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.lb'. George A. Sanders for petitioners.
I. There was ample legislative authority for the issue of the
bonds and coupons in controversy, under the act of M arch 10,
1869. The declaration avers the citizenship of the plaintiff as
that of another State. Gives copy of one of the bonds and
coupons, and avers the others are of similar tenor and effect,
states when, and for what purpose, the bonds were issued, rate

ZANE i,. HAMILTON COUNTY.
189 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

of interest, and when and where payable. That they were
made, executed and delivered by the duly autgorized officials
of the defendant county in part payment of a subscription for
stock of the St. Louis & Southeastern Railway Company, to
that company, or bearer, under and by virtue of the authority
of a majority of all the legal voters in said county, by their
votes at an election held in said county, pursuant to law, on
the 3d day of November, 1868, and also by the authority given
by the provisions of certain acts of the General Assembly of
the State of Illinois. That they were issued in part payment
of a subscription made by said county under and by virtue of
the authority aforesaid to the capital stock of said St. Louis &
Southeastern Railway Company, the whole subscription of the
county being $200,000. That the bonds were duly registered
by the State Auditor iNovember 1, 1871, under the act of
April 16, 1869. That the plaintiff purchased the bonds and
coupons for an investment in the usual course of business for a
good and valuable consideration somewhere on or about February 1, 1874, and long before there was any default in the payment of the interest or principal of the bonds and without any
notice whatever of any supposed want of legislative power, or
irregularity in their issue.
All these facts are admitted by the general demurrer, and
the bonds and coupons must be held valid obligations of the
defendant if there was legislative authority for their issue.
There can be no doubt that there is ample legislative power
in the act of incorporation of the St. Louis & Southeastern
Railway Company for the issue of the bonds in question, and
especially under section 20 in that act. This construction has
been given to this act in a number of cases.
II. The act of incorporation of March 10, 1869, was not in
violation of the constitution of 1848. Counsel for the defendant strenuously insists that the act has been held in violation
of section 23, article 3, of the Illinois constitution of 1848, which
provides that "no private or local law which may be passed
by the General Assembly shall embrace more than one subject
and that shall be expressed in the title." Constitution of Illinois of 1848, section 23, article 3. See Revised Statutes of Illinois, Hurd, 1897, page 39.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Petitioners.

189 U. S.

The first adjpdication concerning this issue of bonds was in
a chancery proceeding commenced by the county of Hamilton
to restrain and enjoin the levy and collection of taxes to pay
interest on these bonds. That case was removed to the Federal
court of the Southern District of Illinois, and the bonds were
held " valid, legal and binding obligations of the said county."
This decree was never appealed from, reversed or in any manner set aside or annulled.
Later, a decision in an ex parte proceeding (unknown bondholders being served only by newspaper publication) was rendered by the state Supreme Court in the case of The People v.
Etamill, 134 Illinois, 666, holding this issue of $200,000 of bonds
void for want of legislative power to issue them. That the act
of March 10, 1869, was in violation of section 23, article 3 of
the constitution of 1848, and therefore conferred no power for
their issue; in 1896, the United States Circuit Court of Appeals
rendered a decision in the case of A ustin v. Hamilton County,
22 C. C. A. 128; 79 Fed. Rep. 208, in which other bondsand coupons of this issue than those mentioned in the decree of June 5,
1881, were involved, affirming the decision of the court below
on the ground that the plaintiff was not a bonafide holder of
some of the bonds and coupons involved, having presumably purchased them after a knowledge of the decision of the state
Supreme Court in the case of The People v. hmili, 134 Illinois,
666. And see Tr'anklin County v. German Savings Bank, 142,
U. S. 99.
The position of the counsel for the defence that the decision
in the case of Bolles v. HamiltonOounty, 20 C. C. A. 401, is
res ad)udicata as to the case at bar is untenable. See Moodbury v. City of Shawneetozon, 20 C. C. A. 400 ; 74 Fed. Rep. 205.
In these decisions the Appellate Court never passed upon the
only question presented under the demurrer in the case at bar,
to wit, the constitutionality of the act of March 10, 1869, save
in the Austin v. ltamilton Oounty case where it sustains the
decree of the Federal court below of June 5, 1881, when it
says, this question equally with others "were determined by
the decree."
III. Counsel for the defence insists that there was no law

ZANE v. HAMILTON COUNTY.
189 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

granting any power whatever to issue the bonds in controversy in existence when the vote was taken.
There is now no question, under the decisions of the Federal
courts but that the legislature had power to ratify, confirm and
legalize the exercise of any power by public corporations, which
it might have authorized in the first instance. Bolles v. Brimfield, 120 U. S. 759; Anderson v. Santa Anna, 116 U. S.364;
Grenada County v. Brogden, 112 U. S. 271.
IV. The act of March 10, 1869, incorporating the St. Louis &
Southeastern Railway Company is not unconstitutional by reason of its title; nor is it a local or private act. Illinois Revised
Statutes, Hurd's 1897, article 3, section 23, page 39 ; Unity v.
Burrage, 103 U. S. 447, October term, 1880; Belleville &c.
Railroad Company v. Gregory, 15 Illinois, 20; Fireman'sBenevolent Association v. lounsbury, 21 Illinois, 511; Schuyler
County v. People, 25 Illinois, 181; O'leary v. County of Cook,
28 Illinois, 534; E'lingerv. Boneau, 51 Illinois, 95; People v.
Brislin, 80 Illinois, 423; Binz v. Weber, 81 Illinois, 288. The
act cannot, therefore, be held to be open to the constitutional
objection, even under the state court decisions. San Antonio
v. i3fehaffy, 96 U. S.315 ; Jonesboro City v. Cairo& St. Louis
Railroad Co., 100 U. S.192; Johnson v. The People, 83 Illinois, 431 ; Mount Clairv. Ramsdell, 107 U. S.147; Supervisor
v. C., B. & Q. R. R. Co., 44 Illinois, 229; City of Ottawa v.
People, 48 Illinois, 223; City of Virden v. Allen, 107 Illinois,
506.
Nor is the act of March 10, 1869, a local or private act.
Section 21, of the act, Private Laws of Illinois, vol. 3, 1869, is
as folloNVs, to wit: "This act shall be deemed a public act and
shall be liberally construed for all purposes therein expressed
and declared, and shall be in force from and after its passage."
See Abbott's Law Dictionary.
Acts creating public corporations are public statutes. Portsmouth Livery Company v. _Matson, 10 Massachusetts, 9; Pollocle v. MoClurken, 42 Illinois, 37; Bumhaum v. Webster, 5
Massachusetts, 266.
V. The decision of the state Supreme Court in People v. Hamill, 134 Illinois, 666, is not conclusive, and is not the law of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Respondent.

189 U. S.

land, nor of the State of Illinois. Both state and Federal courts
were not in accord with it before, and are not since, it was
rendered June 16, 1888, as will clearly appear by the above
citations. The decisions of the state Supreme Court, as shown
above, have been uniformly against the decision rendered in
that case. Pana v. Bowler, 107 U. S. 540 ; Butz v. City of
.Museatine,8 Wall. 575; Buigess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 33.
We admit the rule that no recital can supply the want of
legal authority for the execution of the bonds, but insist that
the act of March 10, 1869, gave plenary legislative authority
for the issue of the bonds and was not repugnant to the constitution of 1848, and that the admitted facts averred in the
declaration and the recitals on the bonds are sufficient in law
for a bonafide holder of the bonds to recover judgment thereon.
VI. The equities of this case are all with the plaintiff. It
would seem an anomaly in jurisprudence for the courts to
hold that a part of an issue of bonds issued at the same time
and date, executed and delivered by the same officials, under
the same statute, on the same vote, for the same purpose and
of the same tenor and effect, should be held valid and a part
void, for want of power to issue them.
lr. J. .L. Hlamill for respondent.
I. The bonds were void on their face. There was no authority
of law for issuing these bonds and an examination of the acts
referred to on the face of each bond supposed to confer authority will demonstrate that the bonds were issued without authority of law and are void.
The Supreme Court of Illinois in The People exrel. Standefer
v. Iamill, 134 Illinois, 670, 671, held section 20 of the act incorporating the St. Louis and Southeastern Railway Company
to be in violation of article 3 of section 23 of the constitution
of 1848, citing, .Belleville&c. fl. R. Co. v. Gregory, 15 Illinois,
20; City of Firden v. Allen, 107 Illinois, 505; Loch'port v.
Gaylord, 61 Illinois, 276; fliddleyort v. tna Life Ins. Co.,
82 Illinois, 562.
The act of April 16, 1869, Public Laws of Illinois, 1869, p. 319,

ZANE v. HAMILTON COUNTY.
189 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

the only remaining act recited on the face of the bonds purporting to show authority for issuing them, grants no power or
authority to issue bonds, but only provides when such bonds
have been issued under authority of law how they shall be paid.
It is contended that the recitals in the bonds estopped the defendant from denying their validity and it is claimed that on
their face they import a compliance with the law under which
they were issued. But counsel have failed to show that there
was any law authorizing the issue of the bonds. This court has
never intended to decide, and has never decided even where
the rights of bona flde holders have been involved, that where
the bonds have been issued without legislative authority they
are valid and binding against the municipal corporation issuing them. lVorthern Bank of Toledo v. Porter Township, 110
U. S. 615. This court said in Cohens v. 7irginia, 6 Wheat.
264, and in Carroll v. Lessee of Carroll, 16 How. 275, 287,
that it was a maxim not to be disregarded that general expressions, in every opinion, are to be taken in connection with the
case in which they are used; and see Post v. Supervisors, 105
U. S. 668; Katzenberger v. Aberdeen, 121 U. S. 176; Dixon
County v. Field,111 U. S. 92; 3IcClure v. Township of Oxford,
94 U. S. 432; Crow v. Oxford, 119 U. S. 221 ; -Yelly v. XiZlan, 127 U. S. 150.
If it appears upon the face of the bonds sued on as in this
case, that they were issued under a certain act mentioned in the
bonds and that act is void, the bonds themselves will be void.
Gilson v. Dayton, 123 U. S. 59; Lippineot v. Town of Pana,
92 Illinois, 34; Gaddis v. R ichland County, 92 Illinois, 126;
Barns v. Town of Lacon, 84 Illinois, 464; Afiddleport v. -,Etna
Life Ins. Co., 82 Illinois, 564; -Marshallv. Sillimon et al.,
61 Illinois, 223.
An examination of every case cited by counsel for plaintiff in
error will show that in each of these cases there was legislative
authority given to issue the bonds. These decisions, therefore,
have no application to the facts in this case. The courts have
never held that where there was no legislative power given to
issue the bonds, the corporation was estopped from denying
want of authority. Recitals in bonds issued under legisla-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Respondent.

189 U. S.

tive authority may estop the municipality from disputing their
authority as against a bonafide holder for value, but when the
municipal bonds are issued in violation of law, or a constitutional provision, no such estoppel can arise by reason of any
recitals contained in the bonds. -Lake County v. Rawlins, 130
U. S. 662; Lake County v. Graham, 130 U. S. 674; Sutliff v.
Lake County Commissioners, 147 U. S. 230.
This court has held that it will abandon its former decision
construing a state statute if the state courts have subsequently
given to it a different construction. Fairfleldv. County of Gallatin, 100 U. S. 541, 55; Green v. .2eal's -Lessee, 6 Pet. 291;
Sudam v. Williamson, 24 How. 427.
The decisions of the highest judicial tribunal of a State are
entitled to great and ordinarily decisive weight. Rich v. .Mentz
Township, 134 U. S. 632; .3feriwether v. Muhlenberg County
Court, 120 U. S. 354; Claybourne County v. Brooks, 111 U. S.
400, 410.
When the construction of the constitution or the statute of
a State has been fixed by an unbroken series of decisions of
its highest court, the courts of the United States accept and
apply it in cases before them. Township of Elmnwood v. .Xercy,
92 U. S. 289 ; Township of Oakland v. Skinner, 94 IT. S. 255;
Barnum v. Okolona, 148 U. S. 393; Burgess v. Seligman, 107
U. S. 33; Austin v. Hamilton County, 76 Fed. Rep. 208.
II. Bonds issued in violation of constitution are void. Municipal bonds in Illinois, issued since the adoption of the constitution of 1870 as these bonds were, are pimafacieinvalid, and the
burden of proof rests upon the plaintiff to show affirmatively
that they were authorized under existing laws by a vote of the
people prior to that time. XAeClure v. Township of Oxford,
94 IT. S. 429 ; Buchanan v. _itc]i eld, 102 U. S. 278 ; German
Savings Bank v. Franklin County, 128 U. S. 526; Jackson
County v. Brush, 77 Illinois, 59.
These bonds were issued in violation of separate section 2 of
the constitution of 1870 which went into force July 2, 1870.
It is well settled that all negative or prohibitory provisions
even in a constitution execute themselves, making void all acts
done in violation of such provisions, the same as if in violation

ZANE v. HAMILTON COUNTY.
189 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

of express statutory law. Law v. People, 87 Illinois, 385;
_Fuller v. City of Chicago, 89 Illinois, 282.
The bonds on their face bear date October 23, 1871, and
therefore every purchaser of them was bound to know that
they were issued after the positive prohibition of the constitution had been adopted, preventing every municipality in the
State from voting to become a subscriber to the capital stock
of any railroad or private corporation. Concord v. Robinson,
121 U. S. 169.
The courts concur with great unanimity in holding that
there is no authority in municipal corporations to incur debts
or borrow money in order to become subscribers to the capital
stock of a railway corporation and that such power must be
conferred by express grant. Dillon on Municipal Corporations,
4th ed. vol. 1, sec.161 ; Ifelly v. 2Jilan, 127 U. S. 139 ; NSorton
v. Dyersburg, 127 U. S. 160 ; Wells v. Supervisors, 102 U. S.
625; -Lewisv. City of SZhreveport, 108 U. S. 282, 283.
If the power to issue bonds in aid of a railway company does
not exist, they are void into whosesoever's hands they may come.
Dillon on M unicipal Corporations, 4th ed. vol. 1, sec. 163;
-Marsh v. Fulton County, 10 Wall. 676; Allen v. Louisiana,
103 U. S. 80.
A municipality must have affirmative legislative authority
to enable it to subscribe to the capital stock of a railroad corporation before its officers can bind the body politic to the
payment of bonds purporting to be issued on that account, and
if it has not such authority the bonds will be void into whosesoever's possession they may come. -McClu'ev. Township of Ox,ford, 94 U. S. 432; Township of East Oakland v. Skinner, 94
U. S. 255; Town of Concord v. Portsmouth Savings Bank, 92
U. S. 625.
It is claimed that by subsequent ratification the county may
make legal and valid bonds that, when they were issued, were
illegal and void. The legislature never made any attempt to
ratify, confirm or legalize these bonds. Even the legislature
bad no power to ratify and confirm bonds that were issued
without authority of law and in violation of the constitution.
Dillon on Municipal Corporations, 4th ed. vol. 1, sec. 463.

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

Corporate ratification without authority from the legislature
cannot make a municipal bond valid which was void when
issued, for want of legislative power to make it. lewis v. City
of Shreveport, 108 U. S. 282; 3Xar'sh v. Fulton County, 10
Wall. 676.
The legislature itself cannot confer any power on the county
to ratify bonds issued without authority of law and in plain
violation of the constitutional prohibition.
As no legislative authority or grant of power by the legislature to the county to enable it to subscribe to the capital
stock of the railroad company, and issue bonds in payment of
such subscription, is shown in the declaration, or on the face of
the bonds, there was no power in the county to issue them,
and the bonds having been issued after the constitution went
into effect, and in plain violation of the constitutional prohibition, the bonds are absolutely void into whosesoever's hands
they may come, and as bonds that are void can create no liability against the county, the demurrer to the declaration was
properly sustained.
MR. JU5STIE

MoKENA.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action brought in the United States Circuit Court
for the Southern District of Illinois on five coupon bonds which
were issued to the St. Louis and Southeastern Railway Company, under a statute of the State of Illinois. The petitioner
alleges she is a bona fide purchaser of the bonds. A copy of
the bonds is inserted in the margin.' The following is a copy
of the coupons attached to the bonds:
No. 36.

' United States of America.
Bond of
Hamilton County.

$1000.00
Payable semi-annually.

Interest seven per cent.
State of Illinois.

Know all men by these presents, that the county of Hamilton, in the

State of Illinois, acknowledges itself indebted and firmly bound to the St.
Louis and Southeastern Railway Company, or bearer, in the sum of one
thousand dollars, lawful money of the United States of America, which sum
said county for value received promises to pay the said company, or bearer,

ZANE v. HAMILTON COUNTY..
189 U. S.

"$35.00.

Opinior of the Court.

$35.00.

McLeansboro, Hamilton County, Illinois.
January 1, 1872.
"The county of Hamilton, in the State of Illinois, promises
to pay the sum of thirty-five dollars on the first day of January, 1892, lawful money of the United States of America, being
six months' interest on bond No. 46 for one thousand dollars,
issued on subscription to the St. Louis and Southeastern Railway Company.
"This coupon is payable in the city of New York.
" J. W. MARSHILL, Clerk."
in the city and State of New York, twenty years after date, payable at any
time before this bond becomes due after five years at the pleasure of said
county of Hamilton, with interest thereon from the date hereof at the rate
of seven per cent per annum, payable semi-annually on the first days of
January and July in each year, on the presentation and surrender, at the
place in said city of New York, where the treasurer of the State of Illinois
pays the interest and debt of said State, of the coupons hereto attached as
they severally become due.
This bond is one of two hundred of like tenor and amount, of same issue, and it is issued under and by virtue of the authority given by a majority of all the legal voters in said county, by their votes, at an election
held in said county, pursuant to law, on the third day of November, A. D.
1868, and also by the authority given by the provisions of an act of the general assembly of the State of Illinois, in force March 10, A. D. 1869, entitled "An act to incorporate the St. Louis and Southeastern Railway Company."
This bond is also issued under the provisions of an act of the general
assembly of the State of Illinois, in force April 16, A. D. 1869, entitled
" An act to fund and provide for the payment of the railroad debts of counties, townships, cities and towns."
This bond is issued in part payment of a subscription made by said county
under and by virtue of the authority aforesaid, to the capital stock of the
St. Louis and Southeastern Railway Company, in the sum of two hundred
thousand dollars.
In testimony whereof, the said county of Hamilton has executed this
bond, by the county judge of said county under the order of the county
court of said county, signing his name hereto, in open court, and by the
clerk of said court, in obedience to the order thereof, attesting the same
and affixing hereto the seal of the said court, in open court.
Done at the court house at McLeansboro, in said county, on this the
23d day of October, Anno Domini 1871.
T. B. STEELE,
[SEAL.]
County Judge of Hamilton County, B11.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

The bonds were a part of an issue of two hundred of like
tenor and amount, save as to dates of issue, registration and
numbers. There was a general demurrer filed to the declaration, which was sustained, and the case was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. That court affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court. 104 Fed. Rep. 63.
The question presented is the validity of the statute of the
State under which the bonds were issued. The Circuit Court
of Appeals followed the case of Te People ex rel. v. Hamill,
134 Illinois, 666, and (quoting from the case) held that the statute was invalid "because section 20 of the act mentioned was
void, as being in violation of the provision of the constitution
.
.
shall emof the State, that ' no private or local law
brace more than one subject, and that shall be expressed in the
title.'"
It was alleged in the declaration and the bonds recited that
they were issued under the provisions of an act of the general
assembly of the State of Illinois, in force March 10, 1869, entitled "An act to incorporate the St. Louis and Southeastern
Railway Company," and also under the provisions of an act in
force April 16, 1869, entitled "An act to fund and provide for
paying the railroad debts of counties, townships, cities and
towns."
The act of April 16, 1869, was a mere registration act, and, it
is conceded, conferred no authority to issue the bonds. Ample
authority, however, it is insisted, was given by the act of
March 10, 1869. Sections 15, 16 and 17 provided for the subscription by counties and cities and incorporated towns to the
stock of the company, and the terms of issue and payment of
the bonds, and sections 20 and 21 provide as follows:
"Sec. 20. And the said company may lease or purchase, upon
such terms as may be agreed upon, any other railroad or parts of
railroad, either wholly or partially constructed, which may constitute or be adopted as part of their main line; and by such
lease or purchase, they shall acquire and become vested with
all the rights and franchises pertaining to said road or part of
road in the right of way, construction, maintenance and working thereof. And the county court of Gallatin County is hereby

ZANE v. HAMILTON COUNTY.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

authorized and empowered to subscribe to the capital stock of
this company the one hundred thousand dollars, or any part
thereof, heretofore voted by a majority of the legal voters of
said county to the Shawneetown branch of the Illinois Central
Railroad Company. And the county court of 1-familton County
is hereby authorized and empowered to subscribe to the capital
stock of this company the two hundred thousand dollars, or any
part thereof, heretofore voted by a majority of the legal voters
of said county to the Shawneetown branch of the Illinois Central
Railroad Company. And the county court of Jefferson County
is hereby authorized and empowered to subscribe to the capital
stock of this company the one hundred thousand dollars, or any
part thereof, voted by a majority of the legal voters of said
county to the Mount Vernon Railroad Company. And it shall
not be necessary to submit the question of making the several
subscriptions in this section mentioned to the vote of the legal
voters of said respective counties: P'ovided, That nothing
herein shall be so construed as to prevent either of the counties mentioned in this section subscribing any other or larger
amounts to the capital stock of this company than the amounts
mentioned in this section.
"SEc. 21. This act shall be deemed a public act, and shall be
liberally construed for all purposes therein expressed and declared, and shall be in force from and after its passage."
As we have seen, this act was declared by the Supreme Court
of the State in The People ex rel. v. Hamill, 134 Illinois, 666,
to be in violation of the constitution of the State, and that the
bonds issued under it were void. This decision, plaintiff in error
contends, is contrary to prior decisions interpreting the constitution of the State, and under the faith of which she purchased the bonds, and she insists that a contract hence arose
which is protected by the Constitution of the United States.
To support the contention a number of decisions are cited, but
we do not consider it necessary to review them. The conclusion of plaintiff in error is but a deduction from them, and we
need only consider the more direct cases.
In Jo]nson v. People, 83 Illinois, 431, 436, it was decided
that the provisions of the constitution, that "no private or local

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

law . . . shall embrace more than one subject, and that
shall be expressed in the title," did not require that the subject of
the bill should be specifically and exactly expressed in the title,
and it was concluded that when the title calls attention to the subject of the bill, although in general terms, it fulfills the requirement of the constitution. In City of Ottawa v. Die Peopile ex rel., 48 Illinois, 233, it was held that the "adjuncts to the
subject are not required to be expressed, or the modus ope,-

andi."
In Dihe Belleville &c. Railroad Co. v. Gregory, 15 Illinois, 20,
(1853) and Supervisors of Schuyler Co. v. People ex rel. R. J. &
AltonR. 1R. Co., (1860), 25 Illinois, 181, it was held that a subscription to the stock of a railroad company by a municipal corporation was so far germane to the incorporation of the railroad
as not to require specific mention in the title of an act providing for the incorporation of such road. But whatever may be
said of the reasoning of those cases, the contention of plaintiff in
error goes beyond it. If an incorporation of a railroad and a subscription to its stock are parts of the same subject, the incorporation of one road and the transfer to it of the stock authorized to be taken in another road are certainly not parts of the
same subject, more particularly when the subscription to the
stock of the latter depended upon and was based upon the vote
of the people of the county. And this the Supreme Court decided in Tie People ex pel. v. la nill, supra. It was also decided
that the act of 1869 was not a private and local act. The court
said:
"It is seen, the act of March 10, 1869, to which reference is
made as giving the requisite authority to the county to subscribe for the stock and issue the bonds, is 'An act to incorporate the St. Louis and Southeastern Railroad Company.' That
is all it purports to be by its title. The constitution of 1848,
under which this act was passed, contained a restriction that
'no private or local law which may be passed by the general
assembly shall embrace more than one subject, and that shall
be expressed in the title.' This is a private or local act, and
although the subscribing by counties, etc., to the capital stock
of the corporation thereby created, is germane to the object

DETROIT &c. RY. v. OSBORN.
189 U. S.

Syllabus.

expressed in the title, Belleville &c. Railroad Co. v. Gregory,
15 Illinois, 20; City of 7i'rden v. Allan, 107 Illinois, 505, the
diversion to that corporation of a subscription theretofore authorized by a vote of the people to be made to a different corporation is a wholly different thing. That, it is to be presumed,
affects, adversely, the corporation from which the subscription
voted is to be diverted, and is, therefore, clearly not germane
to the title of the act, and section 20 must therefore be held
to have been inhibited by the constitution of 1848, and is for
that reason void and of no effect. Lockport v. Gaylord, 61
Illinois, 276; .Aiddleport v. ,Etn. life .Tnsurance Co., 82 Illinois, 562."
It was held in The Belleville &e. Railroad Co. v. Gregory,
supra,that the provision of the constitution of that State could
not be evaded by declaring a private act to be a public one.
From these views it follows that the bonds of plaintiff in
error, having been illegally issued, do not constitute a contract
which is protected by the Constitution of the United States.
Juadgment ajirmed.

DETROIT, FORT WAYNE AND BELLE ISLE RAILWAY v. OSBORN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
Argued January 15, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.
1. Where the plaintiff in error claimed and set up a right under the Constitution of the United States, and the decision of the Supreme Court of the
State was tantamount to the denial of that right, there is a Federal
question and a motion to dismiss will be denied.
2. Under the laws of the State of Michigan the commissioner of railroads
has power to compel a street railroad to install safety appliances in accordance with law, the cost to be shared between it and a steam railroad
occupying the same street, notwithstanding that the steam road is the
junior occupier of the street.
3. There is a difference between ordinary vehicles and electric cars which

