GiLVtS r. RARRIS.
189 tt. S.

Argument for Appellant.

GILES v. HARRIS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 493. Submitted February, 24, 1903.-Decided April 27,1903.

A Circuit Court of the United States in Alabama has not jurisdiction of
an action in equity brought by a colored man, resident in Alabama, on
behalf of himself and other negroes to compel the board of registrars to
enroll their names upon the voting lists of the county in which they reside under a constitution alleged to be contrary to the Constitution of
the United States.

THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.fr'. Wiford H. Smith for appellant.
As the facts alleged in the bill of complaint have been admitted by the demurrer, the only question presented for the
court's consideration is, does the bill contain sufficient allegations of matters of fact to raise a Federal question, and, if so,
whether the trial court under the law had the power and authority to grant the relief prayed for. The suffrage provisions
of the constitution of Alabama are not only unconstitutional and
void, but a more high-handed and flagrant case of the nullification of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States and repudiation of their solemn
guarantees to the negroes of America can never be presented
to the courts of the country.
If the suffrage provisions of the constitution of Alabama
bore equally upon the whites and blacks alike, no matter what
the standard of property or education required might be, no
cause of complaint would be urged here against them; but
they sought to restrict the suffrage of the blacks without depriving a single white man of his right to vote.
While the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments do not
confer the right of suffrage upon the negro, they contain a
solemn guarantee of this nation that no State shall give any

OCTOBER TERAL 1902.
Argument for Appellant.

189 U. S.

preference in this particular to the white citizens over the
blacks, or deny the negroes the right to vote, or hinder them
in the exercise of the same, because of their race and color
and previous condition of servitude, and it is clearly within
the equity jurisdiction of the courts of the United States to
enforce this solemn guarantee.
I. Sec. 1979, Rev. Stat., brought forward from the act of
April 20, 1871, provides "that every person who under color
of any statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage of any
State or Territory, subjects, or causes to be subjected, any citizen of the United States or other person within the jurisdiction
thereof, to the deprivation of any rights, privileges, or the immunities secured by the Constitution and laws, shall be liable
to the party injured in an action at law, suit in equity, or other
proper proceeding for redress," and manifestly confers jurisdiction upon courts of equity to grant relief against the threatened deprivation of rights guaranteed under the Fourteenth
and Fifteenth Amendments. Sec. 629, Rev. Stat. cl. 16. folt
v. lndiana XEan efaeduring Co., 176 U. S. 68.
I. This is not a suit brought to enforce a political right,
but a civil right guaranteed by the Constitution of the United
States. Nor is it sought in this action to control the exercise
of any political functions of the State of Alabama, since no
State has the right, nor have its officers the right, to deprive
any person of the equal protection of the law, or of his right
to vote, on account of his race and color or previous condition
of servitude. United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214; 3!ills v.
G'een, 69 Fed. Rep. 852; United States v. Cruiksliank, 92
U. S.542.
III. The courts of law are without power to give that efficacious and specific redress in the matter of the enforcement and
protection of the rights guaranteed under the Fifteenth Amendment, because it would be absurd to argue that any money damage, however large, could in the least degree compensate a negro
in Alabama for the deprivation of his right to vote on account
of his race and color. A court of equity, exercising its remedial principles of specific redress, with its ability to look
through forms at the substance and its power to detect and

GILES v. HARRIS.
189 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

expose fraud and conspiracy and cunning and chicanery, can
alone grant that relief without which there would be no relief in a case like this. Equity alone has the power to anticipate and prevent a threatened injury where the damage would
be insufficient or the wrong irreparable. Ex yarte Lennon, 166
U. S. 548; Ticlsburg IWater Works Co. v. Vicksburg, 185
U. S. 65.
IV. The Circuit Courts of the United States, sitting in equity,
have jurisdiction to enforce and protect the civil rights of a citizen guaranteed by the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments,
and this court is not confined to the decision of the question of
jurisdiction alone, but should also decide the further question
of whether or not the suffrage provisions of the constitution
of Alabama are in contravention of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States.
The act of March 3, 1891, section 5, while it gives the Circuit Court the right to certify the jurisdiction alone to the
Supreme Court, does not give the Circuit Court the right by
such certification to cut the Supreme Court off from considering other questions which could properly come up on appeal
from the Circuit Court. i/cLisk v. Rof, 141 U. S. 661 ; Horner
v. United States, 143 U. S. 578; Holder v. Aultnan, 1iller &
Co., 169 U. S. 81 ; Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 58 ; Penn. -Mit.
Life Ins. Co. v. Austin, 168 U. S. 685 ; Whitten v. Tomlinson,
160 U. S.231.
V. Conceding that this court is confined to the question of
jurisdiction alone, and is without the power, on this appeal, of
considering any other questions involved in the record, it is
wholly impossible for the court to separate the question of jurisdiction in this case from the question of whether or not the
suffrage provisions of the constitution of Alabama are in contravention of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the
Constitution of the United States. Indeed, the two questions
are one and inseparable.
VI. See. 180 of art. 8 of the constitution of Alabama, known
and administered as the temporary plan, contravenes the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the
United States, in its purpose, in its language and meaning, and

OCTOBER TERM, 11'02.
Argument for Appellant.

189 U. S.

in the way and manner in which it has been carried out and
administered by the authorities in the State of Alabama.
The speeches in the convention cited in the record show that
the purpose the convention had in view in framing the provisions on suffrage and elections was to invent a scheme by which
to disfranchise the negroes without disfranchising a single white
man in Alabama.
Subdivisions 1 and 2 of section 180, fixing qualifications upon
persons who served in the war of 1812, and in the war with
Mexico and with the Indians, and in the land or naval forces
of the Confederate States, and their descendants, discriminate
against the negroes of Alabama, for the reason that it was impossible, owing to their previous condition of servitude, for them
to attain to such qualifications.
Subdivision 3 is too general, and really describes no qualifications, but simply invests the registrars with unlimited and
arbitrary power.
If our contention is wrong as to the language and meaning
of these subdivisions, still we insist that the administration of
said section by all the boards of registrars in the State of Alabama, as shown in the bill and admitted by the demurrer, makes
this section unconstitutional and void, because the registrars refused to register qualified negroes for no other reason than their
race and color, and required the negroes to produce the testimony of white men as to their qualifications and character, and
refused to accept the testimony or colored men, while all white
men were registered upon their application without further
proof of qualifications than the oath of the applicant. Ah Kow
v. 2Neunan, 5 Sawyer, 560; Yick W-o v. -opkins, 118 U. S.
356; Davies v. Ylcffeeby, 5 Nevada, 369.
VII. Section 181 of the constitution of Alabama, known as
the permanent plan, contravenes the Fourteenth and Fifteenth
Amendments to the Constitution of the United States, in its purpose and object and in its language and meaning, and therefore
should be declared null and void and should not be allowed to
be enforced.
But, conceding that the foregoing argument is untenable as
to the section, it is clearly made unconstitutional and void in

GILES v. HARRIS.
189 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

the manner of the administration of the temporary plan by the
registrars in allowing all white men in the State of Alabama
to qualify under the temporary plan, and at the same time refusing to allow nearly all negroes to qualify under the same for
no other reason than their race and color, and telling them to
come back after the 1st of January, 1903, which is admitted by
the demurrer. The State of Alabama, through the registrars,
has thus compelled the negroes to look to the permanent plan
alone for their qualifications to become electors, which makes
the law special class legislation from its inception intended to
operate against the negroes of Alabama alone. Jew Hfo v.
Williamson, 103 Fed. Rep. 10; Yick We v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.
356.
VIII. Section 186 of the suffrage article of the new constitution of Alabama is obnoxious and repugnant to the Fourteenth
and Fifteenth Amendments in that the boards of registrars are
given absolute and unlimited power and are clothed with the
discretion of judicial officers solely for the purpose of placing
the said boards beyond the process of the courts, and of more
effectually denying, abridging, and hindering the orator in
his right to qualify as an elector, and to vote in the State of
Alabama, on the ground of his race and color and previous condition of servitude, and said section is also a part of the scheme
to deny and abridge his right to vote in the State of Alabama
and the right of his race to vote on account of their race and
color and previous condition of servitude. Carter v. Texas,
177 U. S. 442; AA tHow v. Yeunan, 5 Sawyer, 560; Tick
Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356.
XAz&. William A. Gunter for appellees.
Besides the motion to dismiss, argued below, two questions
arise in this appeal, both involving the jurisdiction of the court:
(1) Whether the constitution of the court admits of the cognizance of cases of this class, involving "the assertion and protection of political rights;" (2) whether, conceding the first
question, such a case is made out as authorizes the exercise of
equitable jurisdiction. It is important, for obvious reasons,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Argument for Appellees.

189 U. S.

that the latter question, if possible, be authoritatively settled,
and therefore, we discuss it in the first instance.
I. The duty and responsibility of prescribing the qualification
of state electors, who must select the incumbents of political
offices, rests entirely with the state government, with the exception of the restraints imposed by the Fifteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States. That provision does not
pretend to extend any right, or give any privilege, but by negation provides that the right to vote "shall not be denied or
abridged by the United States or by any State on account of
race, color or previous condition of servitude."
United States
v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214. It is thus plain that the State is at perfect liberty to deny or abridge the right to vote ad libitum,
provided it touches no question of race, color or previous condition of servitude. LookiDng at the provisions of the constitution of Alabama brought into question on this appeal, they
can and do challenge the closest scrutiny.
It is thus seen that the State gave the right to register as an
elector prior to January, 1903, to three classes of male citizens
of the State and United States having a certain age and qualification as to residence, viz. : First, soldiers and sailors; second, their descendants; third, all citizens of good character
understanding the duties and obligations of citizenship. It cannot be said, that giving the privilege to soldiers and sailors and
their descendants was a denial or abridgment of the right to
vote on account of color, race or previous condition of servitude.
These provisions might, and did, in fact, include many citizens
of dark color, many of the negro race, and many who had been
slaves. The objection, then, if any can be made, must rest on
the third provision extending the privilege to all persons of good
character understanding the duties and obligations of citizenship. It is evident that there can be no valid objection to the
terms of this clause. It is clear that persons of the negro race
may have in the highest degree good characters, and understand the duties and obligations of citizenship under a republican government, and thus that they are not excluded. On
the other hand, it is equally obvious that white persons are
liable to be excluded as not possessing these qualifications.

GILES v. HARRIS.
189 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

Therefore, the clause is unobjectionable in its terms. Williams
v. Mississippi, 170 U. S. 213; Patclife v. Beal, 20 So. Rep.
865.
The constitution of Alabama applies, it is admitted, a test
which will exclude with many whites, the mass of the negro
population from the privilege of voting. Certainly the Constitution of the United States cannot be construed into denying
the right of a State to prohibit criminals and ignorant persons
of bad character from electing its officers and legislators.
It is insisted, however, that this law was passed with the intent to exclude the negro only, and the speeches of members of
the Convention are referred to, to give color to the act.
The intent of a legislative act can only be gathered from its
language. The Convention is responsible only for its collective
acts embodied in laws, and not at all for the views of individual
members. Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87; Dodge v. Woolsey,
18 How. 371; United States v. Des Moines, 142 U. S. 545; 1
Notes to U. S. Rep. 305.
II. A court of equity has no jurisdiction of the subject
matter involved in this case. The object of this suit is to
restrain the operations of the state government for the assertion and vindication of a political right to be an elector. This
is not within the province of equity jurisprudence. Green v.
Mills, 69 Fed. Rep. 852; .ississippi v. Joh]nson, 4 Wall. 475 ;
in re Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200 ; Fletcher v. Tuttle, 151 Illinois, 41.
It is plain that the right to be admitted to registration as an
elector, which is sought to be enforced in this case, is purely
political and therefore beyond the jurisdiction of a court of
equity.
If there is such a right in any particular case which is
denied, it is supposed that the remedies at law are ample for
redress, and, certainly, it is wholly beyond the province of a
court of equity by its decrees to interfere with the ordinary
operations of government as is here proposed.
III. The appeal should be dismissed because it is impossible
for the appellate court, if it should decide the case in favor of
the plaintiff, to grant him any effectual relief. Mi//s v. Green,
159 U. S. 651.
VOL. CLXXXIX-

3

1

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HOLmES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity brought by a colored man, on behalf
of himself "and on behalf of more than five thousand negroes,
citizens of the county of -Montgomery, Alabama, similarly situated and circumstanced as himself," against the board of registrars of that county. The prayer of the bill is in substance
that the defendants may be required to enroll upon the voting
lists the name of the plaintiff and of all other qualified members of his race who applied for registration before August 1,
1902, and were refused, and that certain sections of the constitution of Alabama, viz., sections 180, 181, 183, 184, 185, 186,
187 and 188 of article 8, may be declared contrary to the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments of the Constitution of the
United States, and void.
The allegations of the bill may be summed up as follows.
The plaintiff is subject to none of the disqualifications set forth
in the constitution of Alabama and is entitled to vote-entitled,
as the bill plainly means, under the constitution as it is. He
applied in March, 1902, for registration as a voter, and was refused arbitrarily on the ground of his color, together with large
numbers of other duly qualified negroes, while all white men
were registered. The same thing was done all over the State.
Under section 187 of article 8 of the Alabama constitution persons registered before January 1, 1903, remain electors for life
unless they become disqualified by certain crimes, etc., while
after that date severer tests come into play which would exclude, perhaps, a large part of the black race. Therefore, by
the refusal, the plaintiff and the other negroes excluded were
deprived not only of their vote at an election which has taken
place since the bill was filed, but of the permanent advantage
incident to registration before 1903. The white men generally
are registered for good under the easy test and the black men
are likely to be kept out in the future as in the past. This refusal to register the blacks was part of a general scheme to disfranchise them, to which the defendants and the State itself,
according to the bill, were parties. The defendants accepted
their office for the purpose of carrying out the scheme. The

GILES v. HARRIS.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

part taken by the State, that is, by the white population which
framed the constitution, consisted in shaping that instrument
so as to give opportunity and effect to the wholesale fraud
which has been practised.
The bill sets forth the material sections of the state constitution, the general plan of which, leaving out details, is as follows: By § 178 of article 8, to entitle a person to vote he
must have resided in the State at least two years, in the county
one year and in the precinct or ward three months, immediately
preceding the election, have paid his poll taxes and have been
duly registered as an elector. By § 182, idiots, insane persons
and those convicted of certain crimes are disqualified. Subject
to the foregoing, by § 180, before 1903 the following male
citizens of the State, who are citizens of the United States,
were entitled to register, viz. : First. All who had served
honorably in the enumerated wars of the United States, including those on either side in the " war between the States."
Second. All lawful descendants of persons who served honorably in the enumerated wars or in the war of the Revolution.
Third. "All persons who are of good character and who understand the duties and obligations of citizenship under a republican form of government." As we have said, according to
the allegations of the bill this part of the constitution, as practically administered and as intended to be administered, let in
all whites and kept out a large part, if not all, of the blacks,
and those who were let in retained their right to vote after
1903, when tests which might be too severe for many of the
whites as well as the blacks went into effect. By § 181, after
January 1, 1903, only the following persons are entitled to register: First. Those who can read and write any article of the Constitution of the United States in the English language, and who
either are physically unable to work or have been regularly
engaged in some lawful business for the greater part of the last
twelve months, and those who are unable to read and write
solely because physically disabled. Second. Owners or husbands of owners of forty acres of land in the State, upon
which they reside, and owners or husbands of owners of real
or personal estate in the State assessed for taxation at three

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

hundred dollars or more, if the taxes have been paid unless
under contest. By § 183, only persons qualified as electors can
take part in any method of party action. By § 18-4, persons
not registered are disqualified from voting. By § 185, an
elector whose vote is challenged shall be required to swear
that the matter of the challenge is untrue before his vote shall
be received. By § 186, the legislature is to provide for registration after January 1, 1903, the qualifications and oath of
the registrars are prescribed, the duties of registrars before
that date are laid down, and an appeal is given to the county
court and Supreme Court if registration is denied. There are
further executive details in § 187, together with the above
mentioned continuance of the effect of registration before
January 1, 1903. By § 188, after the last mentioned date
applicants for registration may be examined under oath as to
where they have lived for the last five years, the names by
which they have been known, and the names of their employers.
This, in brief, is the system which the plaintiff asks to have
declared void.
Perhaps it should be added to the foregoing statement that
the bill was filed in September, 1902, and alleoged the plaintiff's
desire to vote at an election coming off in November. This
election has gone by, so that it is impossible to give specific
relief with regard to that. But we are not prepared to dismiss
the bill or the appeal on that ground, because to be enabled to
cast a vote in that election is not, as in .l[ills v. Green, 159
U. S.651, 657, the whole object of the bill. It is not even the
principal object of the relief sought by the plaintiff. The principal object of that is to obtain the permanent advantages of
registration as of a date before 1903.
The certificate of the circuit judge raises the single question
of the jurisdiction of the court. The plaintiff contends that
this jurisdiction is given expressly by Rev. Stat. § 629, cl. 16,
coupled with Rev. Stat. § 1979, which provides that every
person who, under color of a state "statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage," "subjects, or causes to be subjected,
any citizen of the United States or other person within the
jurisdiction thereof to the deprivation of any rights, privileges,

GILES v. HARRIS.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or immunities secured by the Constitution and laws, shall be
liable to the party injured in an action at law, suit in equity,
or other proper proceeding for redress."

We assume, as was assumed in Holt v. Indiana M1anufacturing
Co., 176 U. S. 68, 72, that § 1979 has not been repealed, and
that jurisdiction to enforce its provisions has not been taken
away by any later act. But it is suggested that the Circuit
Court was right in its ruling that it had no jurisdiction as a
court of the United States, because the bill did not aver threatened
damage to an amount exceeding two thousand dollars. It is
true that by the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, § 1, 25 Stat.
433, 434, the Circuit Courts are given cognizance of suits of a
civil nature, at common law or in equity, arising under the
Constitution or laws of the United States, in which the matter
in. dispute exceeds the sum or value of two thousand dollars.
We have i'ecognized, too, that the deprivation of a man's political
and social rights properly may be alleged to involve damage to
that amount, capable of estimation in money. Wviley v. Sinkler,
179 U. S. 58; Swaford v. Templeton, 185 U. S. 487. But,
assuming that the allegation should have been made in a case
like this, the objection to its omission was not raised in the
Circuit Court, and as it could have been remedied by amendment, we think it unavailing. The certificate was made alio
intuitu. There is no pecuniary limit on appeals to this court
under section 5 of the act of 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, 828, The
.Paquete Habana,175 U. S. 677, 683, and we do not feel called
upon to send the case back to the Circuit Court in order that
it might permit the amendment. In .ills v. Green, 159 U. S.
651; S. C,, 69 Fed. Rep. 852, no notice was taken of the absence
of an allegation of value in a case like this.
We assume further, for the purposes of decision, that § 1979
extends to a deprivation of rights under color of a state constitution, although it might be argued with some force that the
enumeration of" statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage," purposely is confined to inferior sources of law. On these
assumptions we are not prepared to say that an action at law
could not be maintained on the facts alleged in the bill. Therefore we are not prepared to say that the decree should be affirmed

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

on the ground that the subject matter is wholly beyond the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. Smith v. .. Ecay, 161 U. S.
355, 358, 359.
Although the certificate relates only to the jurisdiction of
that court as a court of the United States, yet, as the ground
of the bill is that the constitution of Alabama is in contravention of the Constitution of the United States, the appeal opens
the whole case under the act of 1891, c. 517, § 5, 26 Stat. 827.
The plaintiff had the right to appeal directly to this court.
The certificate was unnecessary to found the jurisdiction of this
court, and could not narrow it. As the case properly is here
we proceed to consider the substance of the complaint.
It seems to us impossible to grant the equitable relief which
is asked. It will be observed in the first place that the language of § 19,79 does not extend the sphere of equitable jurisdiction in respect of what shall be held an appropriate subject
matter for that kind of relief. The words are "shall be liable
to the party injured in an action at law, suit in equity, or other
proper proceeding for redress." They allow a suit in equity
only when that is the proper proceeding for redress, and they
refer to existing standards to determine what is a proper proceeding. The traditional limits of proceedings in equity have
not embraced a remedy for political wrongs. Green v. _ills,
69 Fed. Rep. 852. But we cannot forget that we are dealing
with a new and extraordinary situation, and we are unwilling
to stop short of the final considerations which seems to us to
dispose of the case.
The difficulties which we cannot overcome are two, and the
first is this: The plaintiff alleges that the whole registration
scheme of the Alabama constitution is a fraud upon the Constitution of the United States, and asks us to declare it void.
But of course he could not maintain a bill for a mere declaration in the air. HKe does not try to do so, but asks to be registered as a party qualified under the void instrument. If then
we accept the conclusion which it is the chief purpose of the
bill to maintain, how can we make the court a party to the unlawful scheme by accepting it and adding another voter to its
fraudulent lists? If a white man came here on the same gen-

GILES. v. HARRIS.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

eral allegations, admitting his sympathy with the plan, but al-

leging some special prejudice that had kept him off the list, we
hardly should think it necessary to meet him with a reasoned
answer. But the relief cannot be varied because we think that in
the future the particular plaintiff is likely to try to overthrow the
scheme. If we accept the plaintiff's allegations for the purposes
of his case, he cannot complain. We must accept or reject them.
It is impossible simply to shut our eyes, put the plaintiff on the
lists, be they honest or fraudulent, and leave the determination
of the fundamental question for the future. If we have an
opinion that the bill is right on its face, or if we are undecided,
we are not at liberty to assume it to be wrong for the purposes
of decision. It seems to us that unless we are prepared to say
that it is wrong, that all its principal allegations are immaterial
and that the registration plan of the Alabama constitution is
valid, we cannot order the plaintiff's name to be registered.
It is not an answer to say that if all the blacks who are qualified
according to the letter of the instrument were registered, the
fraud would be cured. In the first place, there is no probability that any way now is open by which more than a few could
be registered, but if all could be the difficulty would not be
overcome. If the sections of the constitution concerning registration were illegal in their-inception, it would be a new doctrine in constitutional law that the original invalidity could be
cured by an administration which defeated their intent. We
express no opinion as to the alleged fact of their unconstitutionality beyond saying that we are not willing to assume that
they are valid, in the face of the allegations and main object of the bill, for the purpose of granting the relief which it
was necessary to pray in order that that object should be
secured.
The other difficulty is of a different sort, and strikingly reinforces the argument that equity cannot undertake now, any
more than it has in the past, to enforce political rights, and
also the suggestion that state constitutions were not left unmentioned in § 1979 by accident. In determining whether a court
of equity can take jurisdiction, one of the first questions is what
it can do to enforce any order that it may make. This is al-

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1902.
JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

189 U5. S.

leged to be the conspiracy of a State, although the State is not
and could not be made a party to the bill. fans v.Louisiana,
134 U. S. 1. The Circuit Court has no constitutional power to
control its action by any direct means. And if we leave the State
out of consideration, the court has as little practical power to deal
with the people of the State in a body. The bill imports that
the great mass of the white population intends to keep the
blacks from voting. To meet such an intent something more
than ordering the plaintiff's name to be inscribed upon the lists
of 1902 will be needed. If the conspiracy and the intent exist,
a name on a piece of paper will not defeat them. Unless we
are prepared to supervise the voting in that State by officers of
the court, it seems to us that all that the plaintiff could get
from equity would be an empty form. Apart from damages
to the individual, relief from a great political wrong, if done,
as alleged, by the people of a State and the State itself, must
be given by them or by the legislative and political department
of the government of the United States.
-Decreeaflrmed.
Mr. JusTIcE BREWER dissenting.
I am unable to concur in either the opinion or judgment in
this case. The single question is whether the Circuit Court of
the United States had jurisdiction. Accepting the statement
of facts in the opinion of the majority as sufficiently full, it appears that the plaintiff was entitled to a place on the permanent
registry and was denied it by the defendants, the board of
registrars in the county in which he lived. INo one was allowed to vote who was not registered. He desired to vote at
the coming election for representative in Congress. He was
deprived of that right by the action of the defendants. Has
the Circuit Court jurisdiction to redress such wrong? It is
conceded that because of the permanence of the registry the
appeal cannot be dismissed under Xfills v. Green, 159 U. S.
651, for if registered on the permanent registry the plaintiff can
vote at all future elections.
Whether the plaintiff's remedy was at law or in equity, can-

GILES v. HARRIS.
189 U7. S.

JUSTICE

BREWER, dissenting.

not be considered on this appeal. It was so decided in Sfth v.
AfcYcay, 161 U. S. 355, the authority of which is not in terms
denied in the opinion of the majority, although by the decision
it is practically disregarded. The certificate of the trial judge
stated that "the only question considered and decided by the
court in dismissing the bill of complaint was, whether upon the
bill and demurrer thereto a case is presented of which this
court has jurisdiction under the Constitution or laws of the
United States."
The act of Congress authorizing appeals directly from the
Circuit Courts to this court, 26 Stat. 827, provides that:
"In any case in which the jurisdiction of the court is in issue;
in such cases the question of jurisdiction alone shall be certified
to the Supreme Court from the court below for decision."
In Smith v. McKay, we said (p. 358):
"When the requisite citizenship of the parties appears, and
the subject matter is such that the Circuit Court is competent
to deal with it, the jurisdiction of that court attaches, and
whether the court should sustain the complainant's prayer for
equitable relief, or should dismiss the bill with leave to bring an
action at law, either would be a valid exercise of jurisdiction.
If any error were committed in the exercise of such jurisdiction,
it could only be remedied by an appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals."
See also Tucker v. AcKay, 164 U. S.701; JMu:phy v. Colorado Paving Company, 166 U. S.719; Shepa'rd v. Adams, 168
U. S.618, 622; Building & Loan Association v. Price, 169
U. S.45, in which we said:
"The complainant appealed to this court, which appeal was
allowed and granted solely upon the question of the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court, and that question alone has been certified.
Whether the bill shows facts sufficient to invoke the consideration of a court of equity is not such a question of jurisdiction
as is referred to in the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517,
and we have therefore no concern with that question." Blythe
Company v. Blythie, 172 U. S. 644; Blythe v. Hinckley, 173
U. S.501, 506, from which I quote: "Appeals or writs of error
may be taken directly from the Circuit Courts to this court in

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

189 U. S.

cases -inwhich the jurisdiction of those courts is in issue, that is,
their jurisdiction as Federal courts, the question alone of jurisdiction being certified to this court. The Circuit Court held
that the remedy was at law and not in equity. That conclusion was not a decision that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction as a court of the United States."
A still more significant case is llunington v. Laidley, 176
U. S. 668. In that case proceedings had been had in the courts
of the State resulting in a final determination of the controversy.
Subsequently this action was commenced in the Federal court,
and the final decision of the state courts was pleaded as resjudicata. The Circuit Court dismissed the suit for want of jurisdiction, and certified the question to this court. I thought it
was sacrificing substance to form to reverse the judgment of
dismissal when it was apparent that the controversy had been
settled by the decisions in the state court, and, therefore, could
not rightfully be relitigated in the Federal court. But this
court held that the only question to be considered was that of
jurisdiction, saying (p. 679):
"Under the circumstances of this case, the question whether
the proceedings in any or all of the suits, at law or in equity, in
the state court, afforded a defence-either by way of "resadjudirata,or because of any control acquired by the state court over the
subject matter-to this bill in the Circuit Court of the United
States, was not a question affecting the jurisdiction of that court,
but was a question affecting the merits of the cause, and as
such to be tried and determined by that court in the exercise of
its jurisdiction. The Circuit Court of the United States cannot,
by treating a question of merits as a question of jurisdiction,
enable this court, upon a direct appeal on the question of jurisdiction only, to decide the question of merits, except in so far
as it bears upon the question whether the court below had or
had not jurisdiction of the case. In any aspect of the case, the
decree of the Circuit Court of the United States, dismissing the
suit for want of jurisdiction, must be reversed, and the cause
remanded to that court for further proceedings therein."
Although the statute and these decisions thus expressly limit
the range of inquiry on a certificate of jurisdiction to the ques-

GILES v. HARRIS.
189 U. S.

JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

constitution of jurisdiction, is is held that because there is a
may be
certificate
the
pleadings,
the
in
shown
tional question
confor
court
this
to
presented
ignored and the entire case
his
by
plaintiff,
the
although
words,
sideration. In other
method of appeal, following the provisions of the statute,
this court will
limited the inquiry to the matter of jurisdiction,
on a genhere
coming
as
case
the
ignore such limit and treat
seems to
conclusion
This
eral appeal, which he did not take.
prior dethe
overrule
and
me to practically destroy the statute
rests on
primarily
courts
cisions, for the jurisdiction of Federal
their
of
extent
the
and
the Constitution of the United States
case
every
Hence
jurisdiction is determined by its provisions.
to
held
be
may
coming up on a certificate of jurisdiction
in
inquiry
full
present a constitutional question and be open for
respect to all matters involved.
preNeither can I assent to the proposition that the case
and ensented by the plaintiff's bill is not strictly a legal one
that
titling a party to a judicial hearing and decision. He alleges
to
desired
he
that
;
vote
to
entitled
he is a citizen of Alabama,
withthat
Congress;
in
vote at an election for representative
out registration he could not vote, and that registration was
wrongfully denied him by the defendants. That many others
were similarly treated does not destroy his rights or deprive
him of relief in the courts. That such relief will be given has
been again and again affirmed in both National and state courts.
an
That the United States Circuit Court has jurisdiction of
deprior
from
action like this seems to me to result inevitably
cisions of this court. Without stopping to notice in detail the
cases of Efxparte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371 ; Ewipare Yarbrough,
the
110 U. S. 651, and In re Coy, 127 U. S. 731, in which
in
general jurisdiction of Federal courts over matters involved
the election of national officers is affirmed, I refer to two recent
v.
cases which bear directly upon the present question. Wiley
Circuit
the
in
brought
action
an
was
Sinkler, 179 U. S. 58,
Court of the United States by the plaintiff to recover damages
of an election board for wilfully rejecting his vote for a member of the House of Representatives. We held that the court
had jurisdiction, and said (p. 64):

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

189 tJ. S.

"This action is brought against election officers to recover
damages for their rejection of the plaintiff's vote for a member
of the House of Representatives of the United States. The
complaint, by alleging that the plaintiff was at the time, under
the constitution and laws of the State of South Carolina and
the Constitution and laws of the United States, a duly qualified
elector of the State, shows that the action is brought under
the Constitution and laws of the United States. The damages
are laid at the sum of $2500. What amount of damages the
plaintiff shall recover in such an action is peculiarly appropriate
for the determination of a jury, and no opinion of the court
upon that subject can justify it in holding that the amount in
controversy was insufficient to support the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court. Barry v. Edmiunds, :116 U. S. 5560; Scott v.
Donald, 165 U. S. 58, 89; VFance v. IT A. Tandercook Co.,
170 U. 468, 472; -orth American Co. v. .3forrison,178 U. S.
262, 267. The Circuit Court therefore clearly had jurisdiction
of this action, and we are brought to the consideration of the
other objections presented by the demurrer to the complaint."
Again, in Swafford v. Tepleton, 185 U. S.487, which, like
the former case, was one brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States to recover damages for the alleged wrongful refusal by the defendants as election officers to permit the plaintiff to vote at a national election for a member of the House of
Representatives, it was held that the court had jurisdiction.
Here, too, we said, after referring to Wiley v. Sinkler (p. 492):
"It is manifest from the context of the opinion in the case
just referred to that the conclusion that the cause was one arising under the Constitution of the United States was predicated
on the conception that the action sought the vindication or protection of the right to vote for a member of Congress, a right,
as declared in E2x yarte 'arbrough,110 U. S.655, 664, ' fundamentally based upon the Constitution of the United States,
which created the office of member of Congress, and declared
that it should be elective, and pointed out the means of ascertaining who should be electors.' That is to say, the ruling was
that the case was equally one arising under the Constitution or
laws of the United States, whether the illegal act complained

GILES v. HARRIS.
189 U. S.

JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

of arose from a charged violation of some specific provision of
the Constitution or laws of the United States, or from the violation of a state law which affected the exercise of the right
to vote for a member of Congress, since the Constitution of the
United States had adopted, as the qualifications of electors for
members of Congress, those prescribed by the State for electors
of the most numerous branch of the legislature of the State. It
results from what has just been said that the court erred in dismissing the action for want of jurisdiction, since the right which
it was claimed had been unlawffully invaded was one in the very
nature of things arising under the Constitution and laws of the
United States, and that this inhered in the very substance of
the claim. It is obvious from an inspection of the certificate
that the court, in dismissing for want of jurisdiction, was controlled by what it deemed to be the want of merit in the averments which were made in the complaint as to the violation of
the Federal right. But as the very nature of the controversy
was Federal, and, therefore, jurisdiction existed, whilst the opinion of the court as to the want of merit in the cause of action
might have furnished ground for dismissing for that reason, it
afforded no sufficient ground for deciding that the action was
not one arising under the Constitution and laws of the United
States."
It seems to me nothing need be added to these decisions,
and unless they are to be considered as overruled they are decisive of this case.
MR.JusTicE BRowx also dissents.

MR. JusricE

HARLAN

dissenting.

By the final judgment in the Circuit Court the bill in this
case was dismissed for want of jurisdiction to entertain it and
for want of equity; and from that judgment the plaintiffs
prayed and were allowed an appeal.
Subsequently an order was made by the Circuit Court certifying that the only question considered and decided was
whether upon the bill and demurrer a case was presented of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

189 U. S.

which it had jurisdiction under the Constitution and laws of the
United States.
Although the case involves questions of considerable importance, it was submitted here without oral argument.
Could the Circuit Court take cognizance of this cause consistently with the act of Congress regulating its jurisdiction ?
This is naturally the fundamental, if not the only, question in
the case. An answer to the question requires a reference to
several acts of Congress, including the Judiciary Act of August 13, 1888, correcting that of March 3, 1887. 25 Stat. 433.
Section 629 of the Revised Statutes enumerates in subdivisions the cases of which the Circuit Courts of the United States
may take original cognizance.
In subdivision one of that section the Circuit Courts are given
original cognizance "of all suits of a civil nature at common
law or in equity, where the matter in dispute, exclusive of
costs, exceeds the sum or value of five hundred dollars, and an
alien is a party, or the suit is between a citizen of the State
where it is brought and a citizen of another State;" and in
subdivision two, "of all suits in equity, where the matter, exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum or value of five hundred dollars,
and the United States are petitioners." Rev. Stat. § 629, subdiv. 1 and 2.
By the sixteenth subdivision of that section it is declared that
the Circuit Courts shall have original cognizance " of all suits
authorized by law to be brought by any person to redress the
deprivation, under color of any law, statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage of any State, of any right, privilege, or
immunity, secured by the Constitution of the United States, or
of any right secured by any law providing for equal rights of
citizens of the United States, or of all persons within the jurisdiction of the United States." The matter in dispute in such
suits was not expressly required by the Revised Statutes to
have any money value.
By section 1979 of the Revised Statutes, Title 24, "Civil
Rights," it is provided that "every person whos under color of
any statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage of any
State or Territory, subjects, or causes to be subjected, any citi-

GILES v. HARRIS.
189 U. S.

JusTIcE HARLAN,

dissenting.

zen of the United States or other person within the jurisdiction
thereof to the deprivation of any rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the Constitution and laws, shall be liable to
the party injured in an action at law, suit in equity, or other
proper proceeding for redress." It has been said that this section as well as subdivision 16 of section 629 were based upon
the first section of the act of April 20, 1871, 17 Stat. 13, c. 22,
entitled "An act to enforce the provisions of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, and for
other purposes." Holt v. Indiana Iannf. Co., 176 U. S.
68, 70.
Next came the act of March 3, 1875, which provided that
"The Circuit Courts of the United States shall have original
cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the several States, of
all suits of a civil nature at common law or in equity, where
the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or
value of five hundred dollars, and arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or treaties made, or which
shall be made, under their authority, or in which the United
States are plaintiffs or petitioners, or in which there shall be a
controversy between citizens of different States or a controversy
between citizens of the same State claiming lands under grants
of different States, or a controversy between citizens of a State
and foreign States, citizens, or subjects; and shall have exclusive cognizance of all crimes and offences cognizable under
the authority of the United States, except as otherwise provided
by law, and concurrent jurisdiction with the District Courts of
the crimes and offences cognizable therein." 18 Stat. 470,
c. 137. That act expressly repealed previous statutes in conflict with its provisions.
Then came the act of 1888, correcting that of 1887, and
which provides "That the Circuit Courts of the United States
shall have original cognizance, concurrent with the courts of
the several States, of all suits of a civil nature, at common law
or in equity, where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of
interest and costs, the sum or value of two thousand dollars,
and arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States,
or treaties made, or which shall be made, under their author-

OCTOBER TERMA,
JUSTICE HARLAN,

1902.

dissenting.

189 U. S.

ity, or in which controversy the United States are plaintiffs
or petitioners, or in which there shall be a controversy between
citizens of different States, in which the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value aforesaid, or a controversy between citizens of the same State claiming lands under grants of different States, or a controversy
between citizens of a State and foreign States, citizens, or subjects, in which the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of
interest and costs, the sum or value aforesaid." By that act
the conflicting provisions of previous acts were repealed, except
in certain particulars, among which were the provisions relating
to "any jurisdiction or right mentioned
.
.
in Title
twenty-four of the Revised Statutes," Civil Rights, under which
Title § 1979 is found.
It is clear that under the act of 1888 a Circuit Court could
not take original cognizance of a suit simply because it was one
arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States.
The value of the matter in dispute in such a case must exceed
$2000, exclusive of interest and costs.
The bill makes no allegation whatever as to the value of the
matter in dispute, although this court, speaking by the Chief
Justice, in Holt v. Indiana .anufaEcturing Com2any, above
cited, after referring to the first section of the Judiciary Act
of 1888, said: "This" [the question of the value in dispute
in cases arising under the Constitution or laws ot the United
States] " was carefully considered in United State's v. Sayward,
160 U. S.493, and it was held that the sum or value named was
juisdictional,and that the Circuit Court could not, under the
statute, take original cognizance of a case arising under the
Constitution or laws of the United States unless the sum or
value of the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs and interest,
exceeded two thousand dollars. That decision was reaffirmed
in Fislba k v. ]Western Uiion Telegraph Company, 161 U. S.
96, 99." It was added-contrary to the intimation given in the
opinion in the present case-that "the conclusion reached is
not affected by the fact that the operation of the act of March 3,
1891, was to do away with any pecuniary limitation on appeals
directly from the Circuit Courts to this court. The Paluete

GILES v. HARRIS.
189 U. S.

JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

Habana,175 U. S. 677." Of course, it was not meant by that
language that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, so far as
the value of the matter in dispute is concerned, was changed as
to the cases embraced by the fifth section of the act of 1891.
The act of 1891 left the original jurisdiction of the Circuit
Courts as established by the act of 1888.
1. It cannot be disputed that the present suit is one arising
under the Constitution and laws of the United States, and it is
clear that the value of the matter in dispute is made by the
statute an essential element in the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court in such a case. But it has been suggested that this suit
is also embraced by subdivision 16 of § 629 and § 1979 of the
Revised Statutes-which provisions this court assumed, in Holt
v. Manufacturing Co., and now assumes, were not repealed by
any subsequent statute, and, therefore, that the value of the
matter in dispute is of no consequence. But this suggestion
overlooks the declaration of the court in that case to the effect
that although the above provisions must be assumed to be still
(1899) in force, they refer "to civil rights only." 176 U. S.72.
In this view, subdivision 16 of § 629 and § 1979 of the Revised
Statutes have no bearing upon the present case, if the rights
for the protection of which the present suit was brought are
political rights, and not civil rights within the meaning of the
statutes relating to "Civil Rights." Consequently the saving
clause in the act of 1888 in respect of any jurisdiction or right
mentioned in Title 24 of the Revised Statutes, Civil Rights, becomes immaterial in the present case. Whether this be so or
not, the court refrains from declaring that the plaintiff could
proceed under subdivision 16 of section 629 or section 1979 of
the Revised Statutes, without regard to the value of the matter
in dispute. If this court thinks that this suit could be maintained under subdivision 16 of § 629 or under § 1979, or under
both, without regard to the value of the matter in dispute, I
submit that it should have been so adjudged.
2. Referring to the suggestion that the act of 1888 gives the
Circuit Court jurisdiction in all suits at law or equity, in which
the matter in dispute is the sum or value of $2000 and arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States, and conVOL. CLXXXIx-32

OCTOBER TERMI,
JUSTICE HARLAN,

1902.

dissenting.

189 U. S.

ceding that this court in Wiley v. Sinkler, 179 U. S. 57, and
Swaffo'rd v. Teypleton, 185 U. S. 487, recognized that the deprivation of a man's political rights (those cases bad reference
to the elective franchise) may properly be alleged to have the
required value in money, the court says: "Assuming that the
allegation [of value] should have been made in a case like
this, the objection to its omission was not raised in the Circuit
Court, and as it could have been remedied by amendment, we
think it unavailing. The certificate was made alio intuitu.
There is no pecuniary limit on appeals in this court under section 5 of the act of 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, 828 ; The .Paquete
Hfabana, 175 U. S. 677, 683, and we do not feel called upon to
send the case back to the Circuit Court that it might permit
the amendment."
It seems to me that this question as to the value of the
matter in dispute was sufficiently raised in the Circuit Court;
for the demurrer to the bill was, in part, on the ground that
the facts stated did not make a case "within the jurisdiction
of the court." But, passing that view, I come to a more
serious matter. In cases of which a Circuit Court may take
original cognizance, the value of the matter in dispute-which
is mentioned in the statute in advance of any reference to the
nature of the subject of the action-is as essential to jurisdiction as is the nature of the subject of such dispute. And yet
the court says that an objection that the record from the
Circuit Court does not show an allegation as to value is unavailing here, even if such allegation ought to have been made.
That is a new, and I take leave to say a startling, doctrine.
Must not this court upon its own motion decline to pass upon,
indeed, has this court, strictly speaking, jurisdiction to consider and determine, the merits of a case coming from the
Circuit Court, unless it affirmatively appears from the record
that the case is one of which that court could take cognizance?
Is not a suit presumably without the jurisdiction of a Circuit
Court, unless the record shows it to be one of which that court
Is it of any consequence that the
may take cognizance?
parties did not raise the question of jurisdiction in the Circuit
Court? If the record shows nothing more than that the case

GILES v. HARRIS.
189 U. S.

JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

arises under the Constitution and laws of the United States,
and if it does not affirmatively appear, in some appropriate
way, that the value of the matter in dispute is up to the required amount, has this court jurisdiction to consider and
determine the merits of the case?
Let us look at some of the adjudged cases upon the general
subject of the jurisdiction of the Federal courts, and see what
the duty of this court is when its own jurisdiction does not
affirmatively appear from the record, or when it does not appear
that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction.
In Sizer v. .Many, 16 How. 97, 103, which was an action for
the infringement of letters patent: "The sum taxed being less
than $2000 no writ of error will lie under the act of 1789.
This act gives no jurisdiction to this court over the judgment
of a Circuit Court, where the judgment is for less than that
sum. . . . The writ of error must therefore be dismissed for
want of jurisdiction." In Brown v. Shannon, 20 How. 55, 58,
which was an action to enforce the specific execution of a
contract in relation to the use of a patent right: "The sum
mentioned in the bill . . . being less than $2000, whatever
errors may be apparent in the proceedings and decree of the
court below, we have yet nopower under the act of Congress to
revise and correct them, and the appeal must be dismissed."
In Richmond v. City of Milwaukee, 21 How. 80, 82, which was
an action to prohibit the conveyance of certain lots: "There is
nothing in the allegations of the parties or in the evidence to
show that the value of the lots in question exceeded $2000, nor
anything from which it can be inferred. The appeal must
therefore be dismissed for want ofjurisdiction in this court."
In Pratt v. F]itzhugh, 1 Black, 271, 273, which was a cause in
admiralty: " Without the fact of value being shown on the
record, or by evidence aliunde, the court has nojurisdiction."
In Walker v. United States, 4 Wall. 163, 165, which was an
action on a judgment for money: "This court has 9o apellate
jurisdiction,except such as is defined by Congress. The act
of Congress limits this jurisdiction to cases where the matter
in dispute exceeds $2000. We can no more take jurisdiction
where the matter does not exceed than we can where it is less

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

189 U. S.

than that sum. The amount in controversy in the case before
us, ascertained in conformity with the settled principles of the
court, does not exceed two thousand dollars. We have, therefore, niojurisdictionof the writ of error, and it must be dismissed." In Thie Grace Girdler, 6 Wall. 441, which was an
appeal in admiralty : "While it is true that the greater part of
the loss fell upon Lockwood as owner of the Ariel, and her
belongings, there is nothing in the record which shows that the
damage sustained exceeded $2000. And this is essentiaZ to
jurisdiction." In Ayers v. Wtratson, 113 U. S. 595, 598, which
was an action of trespass to try title to land : "Diverse state
citizenship of the parties, or soine otlherjurisdictionalfactprescribed by te second section, is absolutely essential, and cannot
be waived, and the want of it will be error at any stage of the
cause, even though assigned by the party at whose instance it
was committed."
These cases relate to the jurisdiction of this court under statutes prescribing a certain amount as essential, upon writ of error
or appeal, for the review of judgments rendered in the Circuit
Court.
Looking now at cases in which the want of jurisdiction in
the Circuit Court has been held to preclude this court from going into the merits of the case adjudged, we find in King Bridge
0o. v. Otoe County, 120 U. S. 226, which was an action upon
county warrants, this language: "It does not appear that the
Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the action. Unless the contrary appears affirmatively from the record, the presumption,
upon writ of error or appeal, is that the court below was without jurisdiction." In J3letcalf v. fratertown, 128 U. S. 587,
which was an action upon a judgment, and in which case the
question was whether an action upon a certain judgment was
barred by limitation, this court said: "We are not, however,
at liberty to express any opinion upon the question of lijnitation, if the court, whose judgment has been brought here for
review, does not cpear,from the record, to have had jurisdiction of the case. And whether that court had or had not jurisdiction, is a question which we must examine and determine,
even if the partiesforbear to make it, or consent that the case be

GILES v. HARRIS.
189 U. S.

JUSTICE HARLAN,

considered upon its merits."

dissenting.

In Chapman v.Btarney, 129 U. S.

677, 681, which was an action for trover: "We are confronted
with the question of jurisdiction, which, although not raised by
either party in the court below or in this court, is presented by the

record, and under repeated decisions of this court must be considered." In Parkerv. Ormsby, 141 U. S. 83: "Did the court
below have jurisdiction of this case? If jurisdiction did not
affirmatively appear, upon the record, it was error to have rendered a decree, whether the question of jurisdictionwas raised
or not in the court below. In the exercise of its power, this

court, of its own motion, must deny the jurisdiction of the courts
of the United States, in all cases coming before it, upon writ of
error or appeal, where such jurisdiction does not affirmatively
appear in the record on which it is called to act." In Mattingly
v. Northwestern Virginia Railroad,158 U. S. 53, 57,which was

an action to set aside certain conveyances and to foreclose a
mortgage: "Although it does not appear that the question of
jurisdiction was raised in the court below by any plea or motion, yet as the record failed to affirmatively show jurisdiction,
this court must take notice of the defect."
According to the adjudged cases, the first inquiry which this
court should make as to any case before it from an inferior Federal court is as to its own jurisdiction. If jurisdiction does not
appear from the record then the writ of error or appeal should
be dismissed. If it is found to have jurisdiction for any purpose, then its next duty is to inquire as to the jurisdiction of
the court below. When the latter court does not appear upon
the record to have jurisdiction, then the duty of this court is to
reverse the judgment and remand the case to be dismissed for
want of jurisdiction. I say "appear upon the record to have
jurisdiction," because, as we have seen, the presumption is that
a cause is without the jurisdiction of a Federal court, unless the
contrary affirmatively appears. Turner v. Bank of Nforth America, 4 Dall. 8 ; Brown v. -Yene, 8 Pet. 115 ; Ex parte Smith,
94 U. S.455; Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S. 646. In Brown v.
Keene, Chief Justice Marshall said : "The decisions of this court
require that the averment of jurisdiction shall be positive; that
the declaration shall state expressly the fact on which jurisdic-

OCTOBEhR TERM, 1902.
JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

189 U. S.

tion depends. It is not sufficient that jurisdiction may be inferred argumentatively from its averments."
To these cases I will add that of i. C. & 1. M. Railway v.
Swan, III U. S. 379, 382, in which this court said: "It is true
that the plaintiffs below, against whose objection the error was
committed, do not complain of being prejudiced by it; and it
seems to be an anomaly and a hardship that the party at whose
instance it was committed should be permitted to derive an advantage from it; but the rule, springing from the nature and
limits of the judicial power of the United States, is inflexible and
without exception, which requires this court, of its own motion,
to deny its own jurisdiction, and, in the exercise of its appellate
power, that of all other courts of the United States, in all cases
where such jurisdiction does not affirmatively appear in the record on which, in the exercise of that power, it is called to act.
On every writ of error or appeal, the first and fundamental
question is that of jurisdiction, first, of this court, and then of
the court from which the record comes. This question the
court is bound to ask and answerfor itself, even when not otherwise suggested, and without respect to the relation of the parties to it."
In the above case of Holt v. -J[anufacturingCo., 176 U. S.
68, which involved a question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, this court said: "In this, as in all cases, if it appears
that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction, it is the duty of this
court to so declare, ancd enterjudgment accordingly.."
These principles have been expressly affirmed by this court in
many other cases. And yet, according to the opinion in this
case, if objection is not made in the Circuit Court to its jurisdiction, it will be unavailing to raise that question in this court, and
we may proceed to determine the merits of the case. Such a
doctrine, I repeat, is a new departure. The court, in effect
says, that although it may know that the record fails to show
a case within the original cognizance of the Circuit Court, it
may close its eyes to that fact, and review the case on its merits. In view of the adjudged cases, I cannot agree that the
failure of parties to raise a question of jurisdiction will relieve
this court of its duty to raise it upon its own motion. The con-

GILES v. HARRIS.
189 U. S.

JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

assume
trary view cannot be justified. This court may not
do.
to
authority
no
has
it
jurisdiction to do that which
in
It will be appropriate to observe that the Circuit Court
of
jurisdiction
had
it
whether
effect propounds the question
necessarily
question
That
this case upon the record before it.
§ 1979
involves the inquiry whether subdivision 16 of § 629 and
that
But
acts.
later
by
of the Revised Statutes were repealed
statuthose
that
point is left undecided, the court only assuming
the
tory provisions are still in force, but it does not say whether
of
either
suit could be maintained under those sections or under
matter
them without allegation or proof as to the value of the
the
in dispute. INor does the court distinctly adjudge whether
assuming
case is embraced by the act of 1887-8; but simply
the bill,
in
made
been
have
should
value
of
that the allegation
question
The
merits.
its
upon
case
the
it proceeds to consider
of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court under the acts of Congress, the one certified, is thus left in the air, and the case is exof
amined and disposed of upon its merits just as if jurisdiction
claim
no
is
There
record.
the
the Circuit Court appeared upon
that the essential fact of value appears anywhere in the record,
either in the bill or otherwise. Consequently, as already said,
this court is without power to consider the merits.
The court says that the plaintiff had the right to appeal
directly to this court under section 5 of the act of 1891, and
that the certificate was unnecessary to found the jurisdiction
of this court and could not narrow it. But it does not follow
that this court can review the merits of the case, if the Circuit
Court does not appear to have had jurisdiction to determine the
rights of the parties.
My views may be summed up as follows: 1. This case is
embraced by that clause of the act of 1887-8, which provides
that the Circuit Court shall have original cognizance "of all
suits of a civil nature, . . . where the matter in dispute
exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value of two
thousand dollars, and arising under the Constitution or laws of
in
the United States." 2. That the sum or value of the matter
That
3.
statute.
dispute in such cases is jurisdictional under the
as it did not appear from the record, in any way, that the matter

OCTOBER TERNT,

1902.

Order amending Decree.

189 U. S.

in dispute exceeded in value the jurisdictional amount, the Circuit Court could not take cognizance of the case or dispose of
it upon its merits. 4. That least of all does this court have
jurisdiction to determine the merits of this case. 5. That when
a case comes here upon a certificate as to the jurisdiction of a
Circuit Court, this court may not forbear to decide that question, and determine the merits of the case upon a record which
does not show jurisdiction in the Circuit Court.
As these are my views as to the jurisdiction of this court,
upon this record, I will not formulate and discuss my views
upon the merits of this case. But to avoid misapprehension, I
may add that my conviction is that upon the facts alleged in
the bill (if the record showed a sufficient value of the matter
in dispute) the plaintiff is entitled to relief in respect of his
right to be registered as a voter. I agree with AIR. JUSTICE
BREWER that it is competent for the courts to give relief in
such cases as this.
SENA 'V. UNITED STATES.

No. 40. Petition for modification of judgment and for rehearing. June 1, 1903.
The opinion of the court in this case is reported ante, p. 233.
M . JUSTICE BROWN: It is ordered by the court that the decree of affirmance in this case be amended by adding the following words: "so far as such decree orders that the petition
be dismissed, but without prejudice to such further proceedings
as petitioner may be advised to take."

