OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

and the only effect of the holiday was to deprive the court of
the power of doing any business and to discharge those who
had been required to attend until the succeeding day, when the
general duties and powers of the court could be legally exercised. It follows, therefore, that there was no error in refusing
to settle the bill of exceptions, and the petition for mandamus
was properly denied.
Order affirmed.

PULLMAN COMPANY v. ADAMS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 138. Argued and submitted December 19, 1902.-Decided March 2, 1903.
By sections 3317, 3387 of the Mississippi Code of 1892, a tax is imposed
"on each sleeping and palace car company carrying passengers from one
point to another within the State, one hundred dollars, and twenty-five

cents per mile for each mile of railroad track [in the State] over which
Section 195 of the state constitution dethe company runs its cars."
clares sleeping car companies to be common carriers. On the assump-

tion that such companies would be held free to abandon the business
taxed if they seefit, the tax is not void as an interference with commerce

between the States. Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47, distinguished;
Osborne v. Florida,164 U. S. 650, followed.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Argued by /'. William Bu'ry for plaintiff in error.
J. Runnells was on the brief.

2/2'.

Submitted by X2l'. 3larcellus areen, -Mr. W R. -Harperand
Yr. W. I-. Potterfor defendant in error.
MR. JusTicE

HOLmES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action for taxes brought by the revenue agent of
the State of Mississippi against the Pullman Company. The
defendant in due form raised the objection that the tax law

PULLMAN
189 U. S.

CO. v. ADAMS.

Opinion of the Court.

was void as an interference with commerce between the States.
Judgment was given for the plaintiff in the local state court,
and the judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State: 78 Mississippi, 814. The case then was brought here
by writ of error.
The tax in question was imposed by the following sections
of the Mississippi Code of 1892: "ยง 3317. A tax on privileges
is levied as follows, to wit: . . . ยง 3387. Sleeping car
companies: On each sleeping and palace-car company carrying
passengers from one point to another within the State, one hundred dollars, and twenty-five cents per mile for each mile of
railroad-track. over which the company runs its cars." We
assume that the last words mean what afterwards was expressed
by an amendment, "over which the company runs its cars in
this State."
The Pullman Company is an Illinois corporation. Its sleeping cars were carried by various railroad companies, and all of
them were carried into the State from another State, or but of
the State to another State, or both. But such cars in their
passage also carried passengers from point to point within the
State, and a specific fare was collected by the servants of the
Pullman Company. The company attempted by pleas and by
an offer of evidence to bring before the court the fact that its
receipts from this class of passengers did not equal the expenses
chargeable against such receipts. It contended that these facts
would show that the business within the State was merely a
burden on its commerce between the States, while at the same
time, it argued, it was compelled to assume that burden by ยง 195
of the state constitution, which declares sleeping car companies
to be common carriers and subject to liability as such. The
pleas were held bad on demurrer, the evidence was rejected,
and the jury was instructed to find for the plaintiff on the facts
admitted. These rulings and the refusal of the court to declare
the above mentioned ยง 3387 unconstitutional are the errors assigned.
If the clause of the state constitution referred to were held
to impose the obligation supposed and to be valid, we assume
without discussion that the tax would be invalid. For then it

OCTOBER TERMf, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 'U. S.

would seem to be true that the state constitution and the statute combined would impose a burden on commerce between the
States analogous to that which was held bad in Crutcher v.
Kentacky, 141 U. S. 47. On the other hand, if the Pullman
Company, whether called a common carrier or not, had the
right to choose between what points it would carry, and therefore to give up the carriage of passengers from one point to another within the State, the case is governed by Osborne v.
Florida,164 U. S. 650. The company cannot complain of being taxed for the privilege of doing a local business which it is
free to renounce. Both parties agree that the tax is a privilege
tax.
As the validity of the tax is thus bound up with the effect of
the section of the state constitution, we think that the Pullman
Company was entitled to know how it stood under the latter,
and that a judgment against it could not be justified by reasoning which leaves that point obscure. We are somewhat embarrased in dealing with the case, because we are not quite certain
whether we rightly interpret the intimations upon the subject in the judgment under review. If the constitution of Mississippi should be read as imposing an obligation to take local
passengers, the question for us might be which, if not both, the
clause of the constitution or the tax act, is invalid. But we
assume that the opinion of the Supreme Court of Mississippi
intends to meet the difficulty frankly, and when it says that
the argument against the tax drawn from the above interpretation of the constitution is fallacious, we take it as meaning that
no such interpretation will be attempted in the future, and we
take it so the more readily that we can see no ground for a different view. If we are right in our understanding the judgment
of the Supreme Court was correct for the reason sufficiently
stated above.
Judgment affirrned.

