OREGON &c. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
189 U. 8:

No. 1.

103

Opinion of the Court.

OREGON AND CALIFORNIA RAILROAD COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES. No. 1.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 186. Argued March 4, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.
In a suit brought under the act of Congress of March 3, 1887, c. 376, to
compel the reconveyance of lands covered by patent issued February 20,
1893 on the ground that it included land to which there were adverse
claims of settlers to the land on which they respectively resided and
which the United States now claimed for them, Held:
(1) That under the land grant acts the railroad company did not acquire
and could not have acquired an interest in specific sections of land
within the indemnity limits specified in the grant before their actual and approved selection under the direction of the Secretary of
the Interior, prior to the date of occupancy by the respective settlers.
(2) No right of the railroad company attaches or can attach to specific
lands within indemnity limits until there is a selection under the
direction or with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior.
(3) The rights which bona fide occupancy gave to the settler under the
act of 1866 are not defeated by a mere selection afterwards of the
land by the railroad company-the settler having, after the lands
were surveyed, promptly taken the necessary steps to protect his
rights under the homestead law. In such case, the entry made
under these laws relates back to the date of the settlement of the
lands.
(4) It cannot be claimed that all the lands within the indemnity limits
were required to supply deficits, when there had been no adjustment and determination of the amount of lieu lands required prior
to his bonafide occupancy of the land.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Xi,. Maxwell Evarts for appellant.
Jib'. Assistant Attorney Russell for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

By the act of Congress of March 3, 1887, c. 36, it was pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

vided that if, at the completion of the adjustments of land
grants thereby directed to be made, or sooner, it appeared that
lands had been from any cause erroneously certified or patented
to or for any company claiming by, through or under grant
from the United States to aid in the construction of a railroad,
it should be the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to thereupon demand from such company a relinquishment or reconveyance to the United States of all such lands, whether within
granted or indemnity limits; and if the company did not reconvey within ninety days after demand made, it should thereupon be the duty of the Attorney General to commence and
prosecute in the proper courts the necessary proceedings to
cancel the patents, certification or other evidence of title theretofore issued for the lands, and to restore the title thereof to
the United States. 24 Stat. 556, c. 376.
In United States v. Missouri &c. Railway, 141 U. S. 360,
380, 382-which was an action brought by the United States
after the passage of the above statute to have certain patents
for land cancelled-this court, after observing that as to some
of the lands the United States appeared to have a direct interest in them, said: "As to others, it is under an obligation to
claimants under the homestead and preemption laws to undo
the wrong alleged to have been done by its officers, in violation
of law, by removing the cloud cast upon its title, by the patents
in question, and thereby enable it to properly administer these
lands, and to give clear title to those whose rights, under those
laws, may be superior to those of the railway company. A
suit, therefore, to obtain a decree annulling the patents in question, so far as it is proper to do so, was required by the duty
the Government owed as well to the public as to the individuals
who acquired rights, which the patents, if allowed to stand,
may defeat or embarrass." Reference was made in that case to
United States v. San Jacinto Tin Co., 125 U. S. 273, 286, in
which it was held that the United States could sue to set aside
a patent improperly issued, where it appeared that there was an
obligation on the part of the United States to the public, or to
any individual, or where it had any interest of its own ; also,
to United States v. Beebe, 127 U. S.338, 342, in which it was

UNITED STATES.
OREGON &c. R. R. ...
189 U. S.

No. 1.

105

Opinion of the Court.

held that patents procured by fraud could be cancelled at the
suit of the United States where that was necessary to be done
in order that it might fulfill its obligations to others. The court
then observed: "These principles equally apply where patents
have been issued by mistake, and they are.specially applicable
where, as in the present case, a multiplicity of suits, each one
depending upon the same facts and upon the same questions of
law, can be avoided, and where a comprehensive decree, covering all contested rights, would accomplish the substantial ends
of justice."
See also United States v. Oregon &c. Railroad
Co., 1116 U. S. 28.
In this state of the law, the present suit was brought by the
United States against the Oregon and California Railroad Company in order to obtain a decree cancelling certain patents for
lands, which, it was alleged, had been illegally and by mistake
issued in the name of the United States to that company, which
succeeded to the rights of the Oregon Central Railroad Company.
The case was heard upon a stipulation as to evidence, from
which the following facts appear:
By the act of Congress of July 25, 1866, c. 242, 14 Stat. 239,
the California and Oregon Railroad Company, and such company organized under the laws of Oregon as the Legislature of
the latter State designated, were authorized to locate, construct
and maintain a railroad and telegraph line between Portland,
Oregon, and the Central Pacific Railroad Company in California.
For the purpose of aiding in the construction of that line,
Congress granted to those companies, their successors and assigns, every alternate odd-numbered section of public lands, not
mineral, to the amount of twenty sections per mile, (ten on each
side,) of the railroad line. But the act provided that when any
of the alternate sections or parts of sections should be found
"to have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead
settlers, preempted, or otherwise disposed of, other lands, designated as aforesaid, shall be selected by said companies in lieu
thereof, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, in
alternate sections designated by odd numbers as aforesaid, near-

OCTOBER TERM,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

est to and not more than ten miles beyond the limits of said
first-named alternate sections; and as soon as the said companies, or either of them, shall file in the office of the Secretary of
the Interior a map of the survey of said railroad, or any portion
thereof, not less than sixty continuous miles from either terminus, the Secretary of the Interior shall withdraw from sale public lands herein granted on each side of said railroad, so far as
located and within the limits before specified. . . . Settlers
under the provisions of the homestead act, who comply with
the terms and requirements of said act, shall be entitled, within
the limits of said grant, to patents for an amount not exceeding
eighty acres of the land so reserved by the United States, anything in this act to the contrary notwithstanding."
The Oregon Central Railroad Company was designated by
the Oregon Legislature as the company organized under the
laws of Oregon, entitled to receive the granted lands in Oregon, and the benefits and privileges of the above act of 1866.
Prior to October, 1869, that company definitely fixed on the
ground and surveyed the first section of the railroad in Oregon. That section extended from Portland to Jefferson, and
comprised not less than sixty continuous miles from the northern terminus of the road ; and on October 25, 1869, the company filed in the office of the Secretary of the Interior, and on
January 29, 1870, the Secretary duly accepted and approved,
a map of. the survey and definite location of that section.
During the year 1869 and the months of January and February, 1870, the company definitely fixed on the ground and surveyed the second section of its road, which section comprised not
less than 124 continuous miles from Jefferson ; and on March 26,
1870, filed in the office of the Secretary, and on March 29, 1870,
that officer accepted and approved, a map of the survey and
definite location of that section.
On the 7th of April, 1870, the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, withdrew all the odd-numbered sections of land lying
within thirty miles on each side of the railroad (as shown on
the map of survey and definite location filed with the Secretary
on Mlarch 26, 1870,) from sale or location, preemption or home-

OREGON &c. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
189 U. S.

No. 1.

107

Opinion of the Court.

stead entry; and that withdrawal remained continuously thereafter in force, except so far as, if at all, it was affected by an
order of the Secretary made August 15, 1887, revoking the order of April 7, 1870, as to the odd-numbered sections lying
within the iindemnity limits of the grant made in 1866, and
declaring the odd-numbered sections, lying within such indemnity limits, to be restored to the public domain, subject to preemption and homestead entry, as well as to the provisions of
the above grant. The lands so withdrawn April 7, 1870, were
within the jurisdiction of the district local land office at Roseburg, and notice of such withdrawal was received at that office
on April 25, 1870.
During the years 1868 and 1869, and prior to December the
25th, 1869, the Oregon Central Railroad Company constructed
and fully equipped the first twenty miles of the railroad contemplated by the act of 1866, commencing at Portland and
extending along the line shown upon the map filed in the office
of the Secretary of the Interior on October the 29th, 1869. And
in the years 1869 and 1870, and prior to September the 1st, 1870,
the above two companies fully equipped the second twenty miles
of the railroad, commencing at the end of the first constructed
twenty miles and extending along the line shown on the map to
a point distant forty miles from the commencement of the railroad at Portland-a portion of the second twenty miles having
been constructed by the Oregon Central Railroad Company, the
remainder by the defendant.
The whole line of railroad contemplated by the act of 1866,
commencing at the end of the second constructed twenty miles,
was constructed by the defendant company during the years
1870, 1871 and 1872; and prior to December the 4th, 1872, the
entire line from Portland to Roseburg was continuously operated
for all the purposes contemplated by Congress.
Commissioners were appointed by the President to examine
the railroad as constructed from Portland to Roseburg. That
duty was performed, and they reported to the President, under
oath, that the railroad between those points had been completed
and equipped in all respects as required, and was ready for the
service contemplated by the act of 1866. Those reports were

OCTOBER TERM. 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

duly accepted and approved by the President. The report as
to the seventh, eighth and ninth sections, including the last
seventy-eight miles of the road from Portland to Roseburg, was
made on July 10, 1878, and the next day was accepted and approved.
The remaining part of the road in Oregon, extending from
Roseburg to the southern boundary of that State, was constructed, fully equipped and made ready by the defendant company during the years 1878 to 1889, inclusive, and all prior to
the year 1900. It was duly examined by commissioners who reported thereon, and their reports were accepted and approved.
All the lands described in the bill of complaint are distant
more than twenty miles from but lie within thirty miles on one
side of the road extending from Jefferson to iRoseburg, shown
on the map filed March 26, 1870 ; and they were all included and
embraced by the withdrawal made by the Secretary on the 7th
of April, 1870.
iNo part or portion of the lands described in the bill of complaint are mineral lands, nor are they included by any exception
or reservation from the indemnity land grant in Oregon, made
by the act of 1866, except so far as, if at all, they were excepted
or reserved therefrom by reason of the settlements and facts
hereinafter to be referred to.
On August 16, 1892, all the lands described in the bill were
free and clear for selection by the defendant company as part
and parcel of the indenm~dy lands granted by the act of Congress, except so far as, if at all, they were excepted or reserved
by those settlements and facts.
On the 16th of August, 1892, and the 19th of October, 1892,
the defendant company filed with the register and receiver of
the United States Land Office at Roseburg its several lists selecting the lands in question as indemnity lands in lieu of lands
of equal area, parts of odd-numbered sections within the primary
limits of the grant made in 1866 and otherwise disposed of bythe
United States prior to the passage of that act. Those lists were
accompanied by the fees, costs and charges required by law, and
in all respects conformed to the directions, rules, regulations and
requirements of the Secretary of the Interior and of the Coin-

OREGON &c. R. R. v,. UNITED STATES.
189 U. S.

No. 1. 1.09

Opinion of the Court.

missioner of the General Land Office. They were severally
ajiproved and certified by the register and receiver, and the
defendant company had not then, nor has it subsequently, selected or received lands in lieu of those therein described as the
basis of selections by it made, other than the lands so selected
by said lists.
In the following years the following persons, each being a
duly qualified entryman under the homestead laws of the United States, settled upon the lands respectively claimed for them
in this suit, to wit: 1869, Louis [Charles] Heller; 1878, J. R.
Peters; 1878, John Sapp; 1882, George C. Peck; 1883, Uriah
W. Wren; 1885, Baxter W. Jenkins; 1885, Charles E. Barton;
1888, Joseph A. Cox; 1889, Charles W. Seeley; 1889, John W.
Carey; 1890, F. W. Huddleston; 1890, Alfred R. Young; 1890,
Abraham M. Peck. Each person made his settlement with the
intention of making a homestead entry of the lands, whenever
that could be done under the acts of Congress. After the date
of settlement each settler continuously resided and made improvements upon his land in the way of a dwelling house, barn,
outhouses, fencing, clearing and planting of trees. And on
October 27, 1892, within ninety days after the official plat of
the survey of the lands was filed in the United States Land
Office at Roseburg, each settler, in good faith, filed a formal
application in the land office for a homestead entry of and for
the lands upon which he settled and improved and upon which
he continuously resided after the date of his first occupancy.
On the 20th of February, 1893, the Commissioner of the Land
Office and the Secretary of the Interior having approved the
selections made by the railroad company, a patent was issued
conveying to it all the lands in dispute. But when the company's lists were approved neither the Commissioner nor the
Secretary had any knowledge of the adverse claims of the above
settlers to the lands upon which they respectively resided, and
which the United States now claims for them.
On the 27th day of October, 1893, the land grant made by
the act of 1866 being still unadjusted, the Commissioner of the
Land Office demanded of the railroad company a reconveyance
of the lands covered by the patent of 1893 upon the ground

OCTOBER

ERM, 1902.

Opinion of the Court.

189 V. S.

that the patent to it had been erroneously issued. The company
refused to reconvey, and claims to be the owner of such lands.
Hence the present suit to have that patent cancelled.
The Circuit Court, upon final hearing, found the equities of
the case to be with the United States, and a decree was entered
cancelling the patent issued to the Oregon and California Railroad Company. That decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, 109 Fed. Rep. 514.
1. Some of the questions referred to in argument as bearing
upon the issues presented by the record have been determined
by decisions of this court rendered since this litigation commenced.
In Hewitt v. Schultz, 180 U. S. 139, which related to the
grant of lands made to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company,
by the act of July 2, 1864, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365, this court accepted the construction of that act as adopted and adhered to
by the Land Department, and held that the Secretary of the
Interior had no power, simply upon the definite location of the
Northern Pacific Railroad, to withdraw from the operation of
the preemption and homestead laws lands within the indemnity
limits of the road as defined by Congress. .PTorthern Pacific
Railroad Co. v. Miller, 7 L. D. 100, 125 ; Northern Pacife
Railroad Co. v. Davis, 19 L. D. 87, 90. In the present case,
the line of the railroad, opposite to which are the lands here in
dispute, was definitely located in 1870, while (with the exception of one tract, about which the railroad company makes no
question) the lands in dispute were not settled upon until after
that year. We have seen that upon acceptance of the map of
definite location the Secretary of the Interior, according to the
stipulated facts, made an order (which was duly received at the
local land office) withdrawing all the odd-numbered sections
within thirty miles on each side of the road shown on the map
of survey and definite location, from sale or location, preemption or homestead entry. That withdrawal included the oddnumbered sections in the indemnity limits, within which the
lands in dispute were situated. We hold on the authority of
.Bewittv. Schultz that it was beyond the power of the Secretary
to make such an order in respect of lands within the indemnity

OREGON &c. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
189 U. S.

No. 1.

111

Opinion of the Court.

limits of the grant made by the act of 1866. The reasoning in
that case, touching this proposition, applies to the case now before us. In 1887 the Secretary, as if to remove the apparent
obstacle placed in the way of predmption and homestead settlers
created by the order of 1870, made an order revoking the previous one of withdrawal so far as it related to indemnity limits,
and declaring the odd-numbered sections lying within the entire
indemnity limits of the grant restored to the public domain and
subject to preemption and homestead entry, as well as to the
provisions of the act of 1866. We need not discuss here the
question of the power of the Secretary of the Interior to revoke
an order of withdrawal once legally made, notice whereof had
been given at the local land office. It is sufficient to say that
the railroad company did not by the order of 1870, relating to
lands within the indemnity limits, acquire an interest in any
particular odd-numbered sections within those limits; nor did
that order prevent the bona fide occupancy by settlers of oddnumbered sections within such limits up to the time of the approval of selections made by the railroad company of lieu lands
to supply any deficit in the place limits.
In Nelson v. Niorthiern Pacific Railway, 188 U. S. 108, decided at the present term of the court, it was held that the act
of 1864 making a land grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company, and the act of May 14, 1880, c. 89, for the relief of
settlers on the public lands, recognized the right at any time
prior to definite location to settle upon the unsurveyed public
lands embraced by the grant of 1864, notwithstanding there
was, at the time, in existence an order of withdrawal, based
only upon a map of general route not issued pursuant to any
express direction of Congress; provided such settlement was
accompanied by residence on the land, in good faith, with the
intention on the part of the settler to avail himself of the
benefits of the homestead law as soon as the lands were surveyed. This decision rested mainly on the ground that Congress intended by the act of 1864 to protect the right of bona
fie settlers acquired before the railroad company had, by an
accepted map of definite location, obtained a vested interest in
particular odd-numbered sections granted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

These principles are applicable to the present case if, as contended by the United States, the railroad company did not
acquire, and could not have acquired, an interest in specific
sections of lands within the indemnity limits before their
actual and approved selection, under the direction of the Secretary prior to the date of occupancy by the respective settlers.
2. We have seen, from the stipulated facts, that it was not
until 1892 that the railroad company made its selection of
lands within the indemnity limits to supply deficiencies in its
place or granted limits. But this occurred after each one of
the entrymen, whose rights the Government is now seeking to
protect, had made his settlement with the intention to follow
it up by a bonajide entry under the homestead laws. In other
words, the lands were "occupied by homestead settlers" (to
use the words of the granting act of 1866) at the time they
were selected by the railroad company. Now, it has long
been settled that while a railroad company, after its definite
location, acquires an interest in the odd-numbered sections
within its place or granted limits-which interest relates back
to the date of the granting act-the rule is otherwise as to
lands within indemnity limits. As to lands of the latter class,
the company acquires no interest in any specific sections until
a selection is made with the approval of the Land Department;
and then its right relates to the date of the selection. And
nothing stands in the way of a disposition of indemnity lands,
prior to selection, as Congress may choose to make. In Ryan
v. Ra'ilroad Company, 99 U. S. 382, which was a contest as to
lands within the indemnity limits, this court said: "It was
within the secondary or indemnity territory where that deficiency was to be supplied. The railroad company had not and
could not have any claim to it until specially selected, as it
was, for that purpose." And the reason given was that "when
the road was located and the maps were made, the right of
the company to the odd sections first named became ipsofacto
fixed and absolute. With respect to the 'lieu lands,' as they
are called, the right was only a float, and attached to no specific tracts until the selection was actually made in the manner
prescribed." In St. Paul Railroadv. Winona R ailroad,112

OIREGON &c. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
189 U. S.

No. 1. 113

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. '720, 731, the court, referring to this principle, said"The reason of this is that, as no vested right can attach to
the lands in place-the odd-numbered sections within six miles
of each side of the road-until these sections are ascertained
and identified by a legal location of the road, so in regard to
the lands to be selected within a still larger limit, their identification cannot be known until the selection is made. It may
be a long time after the line of the road is located before it is
ascertained how many sections, or parts of sections, within the
primary limits have been lost by sale or preemption. It may
be still longer before a selection is made to supply this loss."
After observing that twenty years expired in that case after
the location of the road before any selection of lieu lands was
made, the court added: "Was there a vested right in this
company, during all this time, to have not only these lands,
but all the other odd sections within the twenty-mile limits on
each side of the line of the road, await its pleasure? Had the
settlers in that populous region no right to buy of the Government because the company might choose to take them, or
might, after all this delay, find out that they were necessary
to make up deficiencies in other quarters? How long were
such lands to be withheld from market, and withdrawn from
taxation, and forbidden to cultivation? " To the same effect
are the following cases: Grinnell v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S.
739 ; Cedar RapidsRailroadv. Herring,110 U. S. 27; RKansas
Pacific v. Atchison Railroad,112 U. S. 414, 421; Sioux City
&fc.Railroad v. Chicago &c. Railroad, 117 U. S. 406, 408;
Barney v. WI1nona &c. Railroad, 117 U.S. 228, 232 ; IR'sconsin Railroad v. Price County, 133 U. S. 496, 508, 513; _i7elson
v. Northern Pacific Raiway, above cited. Having regard to
the adjudged cases, it is to be taken as established that, unless
otherwise expressly declared by Congress, no right of the railroad company attaches or can attach to specific lands within
indemnity limits until there is a selection under the direction
or with the approval of the Secretary.
3. But it is contended that as the selection by the company
(except as to the tract which was occupied in 1869, before any
VOL. OLXXXIx-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

selection by the company of lieu lands) was prior to the application by the respective settlers for entry under the homestead
laws, its right to the lands in question was superior to that
asserted by the settlers. This view is completely met by the
fact that the settler, by prior occupancy in good faith, could
avail himself of the homestead acts whenever, by an official
survey, the way is opened by the Government for him to do so,
and by the fact that, within ninety days after these lands were
surveyed, he filed in the proper office his application to enter
them under the homestead laws of the United States. He
moved with due diligence to protect and perfect the right acquired by his occupancy of the land with the intention to avail
himself of the benefit of those laws. That right was not to
be affected or impaired by the fact that the lands were not surveyed at the date of occupancy. .NAelson v. 11Vroithern Pacifw
Railway, above cited; Ar(d v. Brandon, 156 U. S. 537, 543;
Tarpey v. Mfadsen, 178 U. S. 215, 219. In the Ard case the
court said: "The law deals tenderly with one who, in good
faith, goes upon the public lands, with a view of making a home
thereon. If he does all that the statute prescribes as the condition of acquiring rights, the law protects him in those rights,
and does not make their continued existence depend alone upon
the question whether or no he takes an appeal from an adverse
decision of the officers charged with the duty of acting upon
his application." In the Tai'pey case it was said that " the
right of one who has actually occupied [public lands], with an
intent to make a homestead or preelnption entry, cannot be defeated by the mere lack of a place in which to make a record of
his intent;" that if a settler was in possession before definite
location, " with a view of entering it as a homestead or preemption claim, and was simply deprived of his ability to make
his entry or declaratory statement by the lack of a local land
office, he could undoubtedly, when such office was established,
have made his entry or declaratory statement in such way as
to protect his rights." So, if the condition of the lands, being
unsurveyed, prevents the making by a bona ftde occupant of a
proper application of record to enter them under the homestead
laws his rights will not be lost, if, after the lands are surveyed,

OREGON &c. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
189 U. S.

No. 1. 115

Opinion of the Court.

he applied in due time to enter the lands under those laws.
And such has been held to be the object and effect of the act
of May 14, 1880, c. 89, 21 Stat. 140. We could not otherwise
adjudge in this case without holding that the mere selection of
the lands by the railroad company displaced or destroyed the
rights of a ona fide settler arising from previous occupancy
with the intention of making the required homestead entry
whenever he was permitted to do so. We cannot so hold. We
adjudge that the rights which bona fide occupancy gave to the
settler under the act of 1866 are not defeated by a mere selection afterwards of the lands by the railroad company-the
settler having, after the lands were surveyed, promptly taken
the necessary steps to protect his rights under the homestead
laws. And in such case, the entry made under those laws, relates back to the date of settlement on the lands. It was so substantially held in N elson, v. Northern Pacifie Railway, above

cited.
4. It is also said that all the lands within the indemnity limits
were required to supply the deficit in place limits arising from
the disposition prior to definite location by sale and otherwise
of lands within the granted limits. But the extent to which
lieu lands could be required to supply such deficit in place lands
could not be properly or legally determined until there was an
adjustment of the grant of lands in respect of place limits. In
any event, no such adjustment having taken place prior to the
date of the settler's bonafide occupancy, his rights, based upon
such occupancy, would not be affected by the fact, subsequently
appearing, in whatever way, that all the odd-numbered sections
within the indemnity limits were needed to supply deficiencies
in place limits. At the time the settler went upon the land, in
good faith, to make it his home and to perfect his title under
the homestead laws, there was nothing of record that stood in
the way of his right to occupy the lands and to remain thereon
until he could perfect his title by formal entry under the homestead laws.
Other points were made in the argument of the case, but
they need not be specially noticed, as what we have said re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

quires, independently of those points, an affirmance of the decree of the Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The decree is
Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE

BREWER

took no part in the disposition of this

case.

OREGON AND CALIFORNIA RAILROAD COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES. No. 2.
ATPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 187. Argued \Iarch 4, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.

On the authority of the preceding case, Held, that where a duly qualified

entryman made a bona fide settlement upon lands within the indemnity

the inlimit of the grant made by act of Congress of May 4, 1870, with
lands
the
enter
to
survey,
a
by
opened
was
way
the
tention, whenever
under the homestead laws, his rights were superior to those acquired, or
that could have been acquired, by the railroad company under any selection by it of indemnity lands made after the date of such settlement.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.Mr. .Xaxwell E'va'rts for appellant.
.M'. Assistant Attorney Russell for appellee.
MR. JusTIOE IARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The controlling question in this case is whether the United
States in 1893 erroneously issued to the Oregon and California
Railroad Company, which succeeded to the rights of the Oregon
Central Railroad Company, a patent for certain lands in
Oregon.
These lands are without the place and within the indemnity

