GORDON v. RANDLE.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

We think there is a marked distinction. In the Bedford
case the contract was legally entered into and was entitled to
be enforced. In the case at bar the contract was made in violation of the statute of Alabama, and it cannot, therefore, claim
the protection given to the contract in the other case.
Decree afirned.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissents.

GORDON v. RANDLE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLTBIA.
No. 229. Argued April 7, 1903.-Decided April 27, 1903.

Under the rules of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, the January terms begin on the first Tuesday of January. The effect of January 1
being a holiday, when it falls on Tuesday, is not to prolong an October
term which ends on December 31, and postpone the commencement of
the January term until January 8, but only to postpone the exercise by
the court of its duties until the following day.
It is too late, therefore, after January 1, to make a motion to prolong the
October term, which motion under the rules must be made before the
end of that term.
The rule prolonging the term is to be exercised when invoked; there is no
duty imposed upon the court to prolong the term of its own motion.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Xr. S. Herbert Giesy for plaintiff in error.
Conrad was on the brief.

Mr. Holmes

Xr. J J. Darlingtonfor defendant in error.
IMR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
The purpose of this writ is to review an order of the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columbia, made March 12, 1901,
denying a petition for mandamus to require Andrew C. Bradley,
at that time an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, to settle a bill of exceptions,
VOL. CLXXXIX-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

The plaintiff in error brought suit against defendant in error, in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, on the
20th day of April, 1897, to recover the sum of $5900, on several
causes of action. They need not be described nor the defences
which were interposed to them. It is enough to say that upon
the issues made a verdict resulted for defendant in error, on
the 16th of November, 1900.
On December 14, 1900, a motion for new trial was made by
plaintiff and denied by the court, and judgment entered on
the verdict. The plaintiff prayed for and was allowed an appeal to the Court of Appeals of the District. The case was
tried and judgment entered at October term, 1900, which expired December 31, 1900, unless it had been continued, and
this resulted, it is contended, from the following proceedings:
On the 7th day of January, 1901, the plaintiff through his attorney deposited with the clerk fifty dollars in lieu of a bond
on appeal, and moved the court that October term be prolonged
by adjournment in order to prepare a bill of exceptions. The
motion was overruled on the ground that October term had
ended on the 31st of December, 1900. Notice was given by
the attorney for the plaintiff that he would present the "bill
of exceptions to the court for settlement before Justice Bradley in the Circuit Court number 2." The bill was presented in
pursuance of the notice, but Justice Bradley declined to settle
the bill on the ground that October term had not been prolonged. The petition now under review was then presented to
the Court of Appeals praying "that the writ of mandamus may
issue, requiring Andrew C. Bradley, an Associate Justice of
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, to settle the
bill of exceptions in this cause." The petition was dismissed.
The rule of the court in regard to bills of exceptions is as
follows:
"SFec. 2. The bill of exceptions must be settled before the
close of the term, which may be prolonged by adjournment in
order to prepare it, but not longer than thirty-eight days,
exclusive of Sundays, save in case of a trial begun during a
term but not concluded until after the expiration of the term,

GORDON v. RANDLE.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in which case the trial justice may extend the term in his discretion in order to prepare a bill of exceptions."
The case presents some anomalies. The mandamus was
prayed against Justice Bradley for refusing to act officially,
but the citation in error was directed to Arthur E. Randle,
and he alone is defendant in error here. He was a party in
the original cause, but not a party in the proceedings for
mandamus. Making him a party here is attempted to be justified by the death of Justice Bradley and the action of the
Court of Appeals in not entertaining the petition for mandamus. The immediate answer would seem to be that mandamus is itself an action, and can only, like other actions, be
prosecuted against the parties to it, and that one of two effects
resulted from the death of Justice Bradley, either the action
abated or could only be continued against the person who succeeded to his office and duty.
But passing this, we think the main contention of plaintiff
in error is untenable. The argument of plaintiff is that the
purpose of the rule was to allow thirty-eight days for the settlement of bills of exceptions, and to afford time to do so the
rule provided that the term might be prolonged by adjournment, and the duty of prolonging the term was imposed on
the court. We do not so interpret the rule. It provided the
means for parties to secure the necessary time to present bills
of exceptions. The court was not required to anticipate the
intention of parties. Its duty under the rule, like its other
duties, was to be exercised when invoked.
But it is also insisted that a motion to prolong the term was
made in time. The argument to support this is that October
term did not end on the 31st of December, 1900, but continued
until the 7th of January, 1901, because by Rule 3 of the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia the January terms
of the Circuit Court commence on the first Tuesdays in January, and that the first Tuesday of January, 1901, fell on the
first of January, which, being a holiday, and therefore, as it is
insisted, a dies non, the term did not commence until the following Tuesday, the 8th of January. We cannot concur in
the contention. The term commenced on the first of January

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

and the only effect of the holiday was to deprive the court of
the power of doing any business and to discharge those who
had been required to attend until the succeeding day, when the
general duties and powers of the court could be legally exercised. It follows, therefore, that there was no error in refusing
to settle the bill of exceptions, and the petition for mandamus
was properly denied.
Order affirmed.

PULLMAN COMPANY v. ADAMS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 138. Argued and submitted December 19, 1902.-Decided March 2, 1903.
By sections 3317, 3387 of the Mississippi Code of 1892, a tax is imposed
"on each sleeping and palace car company carrying passengers from one
point to another within the State, one hundred dollars, and twenty-five

cents per mile for each mile of railroad track [in the State] over which
Section 195 of the state constitution dethe company runs its cars."
clares sleeping car companies to be common carriers. On the assump-

tion that such companies would be held free to abandon the business
taxed if they seefit, the tax is not void as an interference with commerce

between the States. Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47, distinguished;
Osborne v. Florida,164 U. S. 650, followed.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Argued by /'. William Bu'ry for plaintiff in error.
J. Runnells was on the brief.

2/2'.

Submitted by X2l'. 3larcellus areen, -Mr. W R. -Harperand
Yr. W. I-. Potterfor defendant in error.
MR. JusTicE

HOLmES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action for taxes brought by the revenue agent of
the State of Mississippi against the Pullman Company. The
defendant in due form raised the objection that the tax law

