OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion in Chambers

473 U. S.

HECKLER, SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES v. REDBUD HOSPITAL DISTRICT
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-32.

Decided July 24, 1985

An application by the Secretary of Health and Human Services to stay,
pending her appeal to the Court of Appeals, the District Court's "preliminary injunction" is granted insofar as it required her to promulgate
nationwide regulations providing hospitals with rights to immediate
review of their individual Medicare reimbursement rates and with enhanced reimbursement for inpatient services. If the Court of Appeals
were to affirm the District Court's use of a "preliminary injunction" to
require the Secretary to issue nationwide regulations, at least four Members of this Court would probably vote to grant certiorari. Moreover, it
does not appear that the District Court had authority to order such
sweeping "preliminary" relief, and the "stay equities" favor the Secretary. However, it does not appear likely that four Members of this
Court would grant review of the issues presented by that portion of the
District Court's order granting preliminary relief to respondent operator
of a hospital, which had filed the suit only to challenge the administrative
determination of its own Medicare reimbursement rate and to obtain
additional reimbursement. Accordingly, the application for a stay is denied with respect to the latter portion of the District Court's preliminary
injunction.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicant, the Secretary of Health and Human Services
(Secretary), asks that I stay an order entered by the United
States District Court for the Northern District of California
pending disposition of her appeal to the Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit. This suit began as a challenge by the
operator of a single hospital, Redbud Hospital District (Redbud), to its Medicare reimbursement rate. In addition to
affording Redbud itself preliminary relief, the District Court,
in a "preliminary injunction" dated July 30, 1984, and a
"modification" of that injunction dated June 14, 1985, required the Secretary to promulgate, by July 1, 1985, nation-

HECKLER v. REDBUD HOSPITAL DISTRICT
1308

Opinion in Chambers

wide regulations providing hospitals like Redbud with rights
to immediate administrative review and enhanced reimbursement for inpatient services. On June 28, 1985, a two-judge
panel of the Ninth Circuit denied the Secretary's request for
an emergency stay. On July 1, 1985, the Secretary published the regulations in question "under protest." 50 Fed.
Reg. 27208, to be codified in 42 CFR § 412. Absent a stay,
these regulations will go into effect on August 1, 1985.
After considering both the Secretary's application and Redbud's response, I have decided to grant in part and deny in
part the Secretary's request for a stay.
Section 1886(d) of the Social Security Act, added by the Social Security Amendments Act of 1983, Pub. L. 98-21, 97 Stat.
152, 42 U. S. C. § 1395ww(d) (1982 ed., Supp. I), established
a prospective payment system (PPS) for Medicare payment
to hospitals furnishing inpatient services to Medicare beneficiaries. Under this system, payment is made at a predetermined rate for each hospital discharge. The rate is based in
part on a "hospital specific" rate, which in turn is based on
the hospital's actual operating costs during a particular "base
year." See 42 U. S. C. § 1395ww(d)(1) (1982 ed., Supp. I).
The Secretary has delegated to "fiscal intermediaries" the
responsibility for calculating the hospital-specific rate for
each of the hospitals participating in the Medicare program.
Redbud, the operator of a sole community hospital in
Cleardale, California, brought this suit against the Secretary
on June 26, 1984, challenging the fiscal intermediary's determination of Redbud's hospital-specific rate. Redbud alleged
that it would suffer losses of approximately $20,000 per
month unless its hospital-specific rate were adjusted to
reflect recent capital improvements completed after the close
of its base year. In its prayer for relief, Redbud requested
(1) a declaratory judgment that the Secretary must allow the
intermediary to adjust Redbud's hospital-specific rate to
account for costs not reflected in the base year, (2) a preliminary and permanent injunction barring the Secretary

1310

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion in Chambers

473 U. S.

"from implementing Medicare reimbursement to Redbud
under PPS unless such reimbursement accounts for" those
costs, and (3) an order requiring the Secretary "to instruct
the intermediary to account for [those] costs." Redbud did
not seek the promulgation of nationwide regulations.
The Secretary moved to dismiss the complaint on the
ground that Redbud had not obtained a final agency determination properly subject to either administrative or judicial
review, and that the court therefore had no jurisdiction over
Redbud's claim. Apparently in response to this motion,
Redbud then requested a hearing before the Provider Reimbursement Review Board (Board) to review the intermediary's refusal to make the requested adjustments to Redbud's
hospital-specific rate. On July 17, 1984, the Board sent a response stating that, pursuant to a ruling of the Health Care
Financing Administration, 49 Fed. Reg. 22413 (1984), it was
"unable to accept" Redbud's request for a hearing because
that request was premature. On July 30, 1984, the District
Court denied the Secretary's motion to dismiss, holding that
it had "jurisdiction under 42 U. S. C. § 1395oo to review the
Board's decision of July 17, 1984." The District Court went
on to state that it "also has jurisdiction under the All Writs
Act to issue an injunction maintaining the status quo in this
case pending agency action." Relying on these jurisdictional
findings, the District Court then entered a "preliminary injunction" that "remanded" the case to the Secretary with
instructions to promulgate "regulations or written policies"
that (a) "take into account" the "extraordinary and unusual
costs not necessarily reflected in a hospital's base year costs";
(b) "take into account the special needs of hospitals serving
a disproportionate number of Medicare and low-income patients"; (c) "take into account ...

the special needs of sole

community hospitals and the unique effects of their status
upon the hospital-specific rate"; and (d) "provide for timely
and reasonable review" of intermediary estimates of hospitalspecific rates under the PPS program. As to Redbud itself,

HECKLER v. REDBUD HOSPITAL DISTRICT
1308

Opinion in Chambers

the District Court ordered Redbud's intermediary to "reconsider" its estimate of Redbud's hospital-specific rate
"in light of regulations promulgated in accordance with
the foregoing.
"Pending compliance with this order and until further
order of the court, defendant is enjoined from imposing
the pre-payment system upon [Redbud] or otherwise
reducing [Redbud]'s current level of reimbursement."
No date was set for compliance with the "preliminary
injunction."
In the spring of 1985, the parties filed a number of motions
in the District Court, all of which were heard on May 20,
1985. Redbud asked, inter alia, that the court modify the
"preliminary injunction" by requiring the Secretary to
publish, by July 1, 1985, the "regulations or written policies" described in the court's original order. The Secretary
moved to dissolve the injunction, renewing her argument
that the District Court lacked jurisdiction.
At the May 20 hearing, the District Court stated that it
would grant Redbud's motion "to modify the preliminary
injunction." On June 14, 1985, the District Court entered
an order stating that "[t]he following paragraph will be added
to this court's July 1984 order:
"The Secretary shall publish these implementing regulations in the Federal Register as an interim final rule by
no later than July 1, 1985, effective August 1, 1985. A
45-day comment period shall follow publication of the interim final rule. The regulations shall be published in
the Federal Register as a final rule no later than October
1, 1985."
The obligation of a Circuit Justice in considering the usual
stay application is "to determine whether four Justices would
vote to grant certiorari, to balance the so-called 'stay equities,' and to give some consideration as to predicting the final

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion in Chambers

473 U. S.

outcome of the case in this Court." Gregory-PortlandIndependent School District v. United States, 448 U. S. 1342
(1980) (REHNQUIST, J., in chambers). In this case, however,
the Secretary is not asking for the usual stay of a judgment
of the Court of Appeals pending the disposition of a petition
for certiorari in this Court. She asks instead that I grant a
stay of the District Court's order pending appeal to the Ninth
Circuit when the Ninth Circuit itself has refused to issue the
stay. As is often noted, "'a stay application to a Circuit
Justice on a matter before a court of appeals is rarely
granted."' Atiyeh v. Capps, 449 U. S. 1312, 1313 (1981)
(REHNQUIST, J., in chambers) (quoting Pasadena Board of
Education v. Spangler, 423 U. S. 1335, 1336 (1975) (REHNQUIST, J., in chambers)). Nevertheless, for the reasons set
out below, I believe that the present case is sufficiently
unusual to warrant granting a partial stay of the District
Court's order.
In arguing for a stay, the Secretary contends that there
is a "strong probability" that the District Court's order will
be overturned on one of three distinct grounds. First, she
claims that the District Court exceeded its jurisdiction in
reaching the merits of Redbud's claim for additional reimbursement. Even if the Board's July 17, 1984, ruling that
Redbud's administrative claim was premature is a judicially
reviewable final decision under 42 U. S. C. § 1395oo(f) (1982
ed., Supp. I), the scope of the District Court's review was
limited to the Board's own jurisdictional determination.
Second, the Secretary argues that the District Court's use of
a "preliminary injunction" to compel "publication of nationwide regulations is unprecedented, unwarranted, and a clear
abuse of the court's power to fashion preliminary relief."
And third, the Secretary asserts that in deeming the regulations in question mandated by Congress the District Court
"clearly misconstrued" the relevant provisions of the Medicare statute.
However the Ninth Circuit may decide these questions on
appeal, I am not at all certain that four Members of this

HECKLER v. REDBUD HOSPITAL DISTRICT

1308

1313

Opinion in Chambers

Court would be inclined to review either the "finality" of the
Board's July 17, 1984, ruling or the District Court's conclusions on the merits. I do believe, however, that the District
Court's use of a "preliminary injunction" to require the Secretary to issue regulations of nationwide application would
prompt at least four Members of this Court to grant review
should the Court of Appeals affirm that aspect of the District
Court's order.
Federal district courts have jurisdiction under 42 U. S. C.
§ 1395oo(f) (1982 ed., Supp. I) to review "any final decision of
the Board" in suits brought by providers of Medicare services
such as Redbud. Judicial review under § 1395oo(f) is sharply
circumscribed, however, see, e. g., V. N. A. of Greater Tift
County, Inc. v. Heckler, 711 F. 2d 1020, 1024-1027 (CAll
1983), and I am persuaded that the section does not authorize
the kind of sweeping "preliminary" relief awarded by the
District Court here. Nor do I believe that such relief is
authorized, as the District Court thought, by the All Writs
Act, 28 U. S. C. § 1651(a), which encompasses a limited judicial power to preserve the status quo while administrative
proceedings are in progress and to prevent impairment of
the effective exercise of appellate jurisdiction. See FTC v.
Dean Foods Co., 384 U. S. 597, 603-604 (1966). The District Court's requirement that the Secretary promulgate new
nationwide regulations cannot possibly be justified as necessary to preserve the status quo. Redbud's interest in maintaining the status quo is protected by that part of the District
Court's order, which I do not stay, that enjoins the Secretary
from applying the prospective payment system to Redbud or
"otherwise reducing [Redbud]'s current level of reimbursement" without making the requested adjustments. In its
complaint Redbud did not even seek regulatory reform. Nor
can I view the regulations as in any way necessary to the
effective exercise of appellate jurisdiction. The District
Court's July 30, 1984, and June 14, 1985, orders, in combination, are a far cry from "the usual 'prohibitory' injunction
which merely freezes the positions of the parties until the

1314

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion in Chambers

473 U. S.

court can hear the case on the merits." Heckler v. Lopez,
463 U. S. 1328, 1333 (1983) (REHNQUIST, J., in chambers).
Plainly, I think, the District Court has inappropriately used
its "preliminary injunction" as a vehicle for final relief on the
merits. University of Texas v. Camenisch, 451 U. S. 390,
395 (1981).
The new regulations will at least require significant readjustment in the administration of PPS and will therefore
cause hardship to the applicant. More important, the District Court's requirement that the Secretary promulgate new
regulations is plainly not necessary to protect Redbud's interests in this litigation. I think the "stay equities" favor the
applicant.
Accordingly, I grant the application of the Secretary to
stay the preliminary injunction of the District Court, as modified, pending determination of the Secretary's appeal by the
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, but only insofar as
the injunction orders the Secretary to promulgate and apply
nationwide regulations. In all other respects the application
for a stay is denied.

