BLOCK v. NORTH SIDE LUMBER CO.
Opinion in Chambers

BLOCK, SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE, ET AL. V.
NORTH SIDE LUMBER CO. ET AL.
ON APPLICATION TO VACATE STAY
No. A-31.

Decided July 24, 1985

An application by the Secretary of Agriculture to vacate the Court of Appeals' stay of the issuance of its own mandate is denied. The Court of
Appeals had vacated the District Court's preliminary injunction against
the Secretary's enforcing his contracts with respondent lumber company
for the latter's harvesting of timber in national forests, but stayed the
issuance of its mandate for 30 days to allow respondents to petition this
Court for certiorari.

Circuit Justice.
The United States District Court for the District of Oregon
preliminarily enjoined applicant John R. Block, Secretary
of Agriculture, from enforcing contracts between him and
respondent lumber company. These contracts required the
latter to harvest timber in national forests. The Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit vacated the injunction holding
that the Tucker Act, 28 U. S. C. §§ 1346 and 1491, impliedly
barred the grant of such relief. The Court of Appeals stayed
the issuance of this mandate for 30 days so that respondents
might petition this Court for certiorari.
The Secretary
requests that I vacate that stay because of the prospect of
continuing deterioration of abandoned timber on the ground.
Respondents dispute this factual claim.
The District Court held that the "equity" favored respondents, and the Court of Appeals by staying issuance of the
mandate even after vacating the injunction, must have
agreed with the District Court on this point. The Secretary
has furnished me no basis for disturbing their conclusion
in this highly factual issue. The application is accordingly
denied.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion in Chambers

473 U. S.

HECKLER, SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES v. REDBUD HOSPITAL DISTRICT
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-32.

Decided July 24, 1985

An application by the Secretary of Health and Human Services to stay,
pending her appeal to the Court of Appeals, the District Court's "preliminary injunction" is granted insofar as it required her to promulgate
nationwide regulations providing hospitals with rights to immediate
review of their individual Medicare reimbursement rates and with enhanced reimbursement for inpatient services. If the Court of Appeals
were to affirm the District Court's use of a "preliminary injunction" to
require the Secretary to issue nationwide regulations, at least four Members of this Court would probably vote to grant certiorari. Moreover, it
does not appear that the District Court had authority to order such
sweeping "preliminary" relief, and the "stay equities" favor the Secretary. However, it does not appear likely that four Members of this
Court would grant review of the issues presented by that portion of the
District Court's order granting preliminary relief to respondent operator
of a hospital, which had filed the suit only to challenge the administrative
determination of its own Medicare reimbursement rate and to obtain
additional reimbursement. Accordingly, the application for a stay is denied with respect to the latter portion of the District Court's preliminary
injunction.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicant, the Secretary of Health and Human Services
(Secretary), asks that I stay an order entered by the United
States District Court for the Northern District of California
pending disposition of her appeal to the Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit. This suit began as a challenge by the
operator of a single hospital, Redbud Hospital District (Redbud), to its Medicare reimbursement rate. In addition to
affording Redbud itself preliminary relief, the District Court,
in a "preliminary injunction" dated July 30, 1984, and a
"modification" of that injunction dated June 14, 1985, required the Secretary to promulgate, by July 1, 1985, nation-

