OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion in Chambers

473 U. S.

RENAISSANCE ARCADE AND BOOKSTORE ET AL.
COUNTY OF COOK ET AL.

V.

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-173.

Decided September 5, 1985

An application to stay an Illinois county trial court's permanent injunction
prohibiting petitioners from operating their adult bookstores in certain
areas of the county -both the Appellate Court and the Supreme Court of
Illinois having denied motions to stay the injunction pending appellate
review-is denied.

Circuit Justice.
On March 8, 1985, the Circuit Court of Cook County entered a permanent injunction which prohibits petitioners
from operating their adult bookstores in certain unincorporated areas of Cook County, Illinois.* Petitioners' appeal
from the injunction is currently pending in the Appellate
Court of Illinois for the First Judicial District. On March 20,
1985, that court denied petitioners' motion for a stay of the
injunction pending appellate review. On April 22, 1985, the
Illinois Supreme Court likewise entered an order denying
petitioners' motion to stay enforcement of the injunction
pending review.
Petitioners filed an application for a stay with me in my
capacity as Circuit Justice for the Seventh Circuit on August
JUSTICE STEVENS,

*The authority for the Circuit Court's injunction is a zoning ordinance
adopted by the Cook County Board of Commissioners which restricts
"adult uses" and defines one such use, an "adult book store," as:
"An establishment having as a substantial or significant portion of its stock
in trade books, magazines and other periodicals which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating
to 'Specified Sexual Activities' or 'Specified Anatomical Areas,' or an
establishment with a segment or section devoted to the sale or display of
such material." County of Cook, Ill., Zoning Ordinance, ยง 14.2 (1976),
reprinted in Application, Exh. A2.
In their application, petitioners represent that their stay request "only
concerns itself with the rights of adult bookstores." Id., 19.

RENAISSANCE ARCADE v. COUNTY OF COOK
1322

1323

Opinion in Chambers

29, 1985. Because the application was not filed within 90
days of the Illinois Supreme Court's April 22, 1985, order,
however, neither this Court nor a Justice thereof has the
authority to treat the application as a petition for certiorari to
review "the merits of petitioners' claim that the outstanding
injunction will deprive them of rights protected by the First
Amendment during the period of appellate review," National
Socialist Party v. Skokie, 432 U. S. 43, 44 (1977) (per
curiam). See 28 U. S. C. ยง 2101(c). Moreover, because the
application does not indicate that the appeal will become
moot unless a stay is granted, it does not appear that an
extraordinary writ may be issued pursuant to 28 U. S. C.
ยง 1651 in aid of this Court's appellate jurisdiction. Accordingly, the application is denied.

