Oct. 1876.]

DESBIARE V. UNITED STATES.

de jure ; that he resigns his office not only, but that a'successor
is appointed. An attempt to create a vacancy at a time -when
such action is fatal to the creditor will not be helped out by
the aid of the courts.
Judgment affirmed.

DESMtARE v. UNITED STATES.
1. A domicile once existing continues until another is acquired ; and, where a
change thereof is alleged, the burden of proof rests upon the party making
the allegation.
2. A., whose domicile was, and continued during the war to be, at New Orleans,
went into or remained within the territory embraced by the rebel lines,
engaged actively in the service of the rebel government, and, while so
engaged, purchased certain cotton, which, upon the subsequent occupation
of that territory by the military forces of the United States, was seized,
sold, and the proceeds paid into the treasury. Held, that his purchase of
the cotton was illegal and void, and gave him no title thereto.
3. Mitchell v. United States, 21 Wall. 350, reaffirmed, and applied to this case.

from the Court of Claims.
On the 26th of June, 1867, Alphonse Desmare, of New
Orleans, La., filed his petition in the Court of Claims to recover the value of five hundred and fifty-six bales of cotton,
alleging that, in the year 1863, he was the owner of that number of bales, then at Opelousas, in the parish of St. Landry, La.;
that, in April, 1863, said cotton was taken and captured by officers of the United States army, by whom, under the orders of
General N. P Banks, commanding the Department of the Gulf,
it was shipped to New Orleans, sold, and the proceeds placed
in the treasury of the United States.
The court below found, as matters of fact,
1. The claimant, before the war, had his domicile in the city
of New Orleans, La., where he resided, and was a partner with
one Laforest,-under the style of Laforest & Desmare, commission-merchants; and he was residing there also on the 19th of
January, 1866. There is no evidence of any change of said
domicile, or of a dissolution of said partnership; nor is there
any evidence as to where the claimant was on the 27th of
April, 1862, when the United States military forces took possession of New Orleans, or before that date, during the-war, or
APPEAL

DESBIARE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

afterward, until October, 1862, when it is proved he was in the
parish of St. Landry, La., purchasing the cotton, which is the subject of this action, and acting as agent of the rebel government
for the exchange of Confederate bonds for Confederate notes,
for which latter purpose he had an office at Opelousas, in
said parish. Said parish was within the rebel lines until April,
1863, when it was taken possession of by United States forces
under General Banks.
2. Between the 1st of October, 1862, and the month of April,
1863, the claimant, in person, purchased within said parish, of
different persons, two hundred and sixty-eight bales of cotton,
and paid for the same in Confederate money. All of said cotton was seized by officers of the United States upon the entry
of their military forces into said parish, was turned over to
agents of the Treasury Department, sold, and the net proceeds,
to the aggregate amount of $51,456, are now in the United
States treasury.
3. Said claimant and one Duprd, jointly and personally, purchased within said parish, March 3, 1863, eighty-four bales of
cotton, for which they gave their notes, with security. These
-notes were paid after the war, one-half by the claimant and onehalf by said Duprd. This cotton was seized by officers of the
United States in April, 1863; was turned over to treasury
agent and sold, and the net proceeds thereof, to the amount of
$16,128, are in the United States treasury.
4. The claimant has failed to prove that any other cotton
owned by him was seized by officers or agents of the defendants.
The court thereupon concluded, as matters of law, 1. The claimant's domicile, found to have been in the city
of New Orleans before the war, and not proved to have been
changed, is presumed to have continued and been in that city
when the purchases of cotton were made by him within the
rebel lines, as set forth in the findings.
2. The claimant's domicile being in the city of New Orleans,
he is presumed to have been there personally until he is proved
to be elsewhere; and the claimant, not showing that he was
absent from the. place of his domicile when 'the city was captared, April 27, 1862, it is presumed he was there at that time,

Oct. 1876.]

DESMARE V. UNITED STATES.

and subsequently crossed the Federal lines about the time he is
proved to be in the parish of St. Landry.
3. The purchases of cotton by the claimant, under the circumstances set forth in the findings, were void as against the
law and public policy of the United States, and he acquired no
title to the cotton thereby.
The plaintiff's petition having been dismissed, he appealed to
this court.
Mr. Thomas J. Durant and Mr. C. W Howr,for the appellant.
Because the claimant's domicile was in the city of New
Orleans before the war, and was not .shown by proof to have
been changed, the presumption of the court below, that his
domicile continued and was "in -that city when the purchases of cotton were made by him within the rebel lines,"
&c., is contrary to both the facts and the law. He had his
domicile in the parish of St. Landry when he bought the
cotton there. It being established that before the war he
was a rebel, and still one on Jan. 19, 1866, it is a presumption of law, that during all the intermediate time he remained
one.
Probatisextremis presumuntur media. Domicile is a question both of law and fact. Claimant was, in October, 1862,
in the parish of St. Landry, "purchasing cotton, and acting
as agent of the rebel government." As such an officer, it is
undeniable he could have no domicile within the Union lines.
The voluntary residence of the petitioner in-New Orleans after
the war began would have been a crime, and statute evidence
of it.
The moment he took the oath and assumed the duties of an
agent of the Confederate government in St. Landry, his domicile,
both political and civil, in that parish, became fixed eo indtanti.
This is a presumptio juris et de jure. It is as conclusive as
the bar of a statute of limitation, or the estoppel by an adjudication of a matter in a court of competent jurisdiction. No
court will allow the contrary proof to be made. In the case of
a public officer, neither the fact nor the intent of a domicile
elsewhere could prevail over this presumption, which differs
radically from the presumptions of the court elow. 1 Evans's

.608

DESMARE v.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Potbier, 414; La. Code, 1870, art. 45; Phillimore on Domicile, 61 ; Murray v. CharmingBetsy, 2 Cranch, 64 ; The Venus,
8 id. 280 et seq.; The Pranees, id. 363; Merlin, Rep., verbo
Domicile; Boileux Commentaries Code Nap., vol. i. p. 220, on
Code Nap. art. 107.
It cannot be doubted that there are transactionis so radically
and fundamentally national as to impress the national character, independent of peace or war, and the local residence of the
parties. The FTrow Anna Catharina,5 Rob. A. 167.
The petitioner was involved in the universal disloyalty of
the South from the beginning of the war up to 19th January,
1866, and had his domicile, political and civil, in rebel territory
during all that time, except for the interval between April 27
and October, 1862. In the absence of any proof of the fact
that he was domiciled in New Orleans during this period, the
lower court presumes, because he was there domiciled before
the war; and, because this domicile was not proved to have
been changed, it must be presumed to have continued; and
hence he was domiciled in New Orleans when the purchases
were made by him within the rebel lines.
Such a presumption is certainly not applicable to the exceptional state of war. In a prize court, it cannot be doubted that
in an investigation into the legality or illegality of a trade carried on in an alleged violation of the laws of war, and where
the proceedings were in rem against cotton, as in this case,
Desmare's domicile would not be found to be under the flag of
the Union. Politically, he would be decreed a Confederate by
the courts of the Confederate States; and the idea that the
Confederacy could have confiscated this cotton before its capture by the United States forces, on the ground that he was
presumably a loyal man, because he had crossed the lines from
New Orleans, and had renewed his allegiance to the Union, is
purely illusory. And yet this result flows as naturally from the
facts found as the legal conclusions drawn by the court below;
and both are contradictory and untrue.
The question is, what is the political, rather than what is the
civil, domicile of the claimant when residing in St Landry parish. The simple test, did he abandon the Union and cast his
lot with the rebels, if applied in this case, would be quite con-

Oct. 1876.]

DESMARE v. UNITED STATES.

elusive. His acts and doings manifest a clear intent in him
quatenus in illo exuere patriam. Whicker v. Hume, 7 H. L. C.
159; Moorhouse v. Lord, 10 id. 282; Holdane v. Eckford, L. R.
8 Eq. 631; Woolsey's Intern. Law, ยง 168.
For the purpose of capture, property found in enemy territory
is enemy property, without regard to the status of the owner.
In war, all residents of enemy country are enemies. The time
is. not .so essential 'as the intent. Lamar, Executor, v. Brown
et al., 92 U. S. 187; Scholefiel4 v. Eichelberger,7 Pet. 593 ;.Johnson v.Merchandise, 6 Hall's Am. L. I. 68; United States v.
Penelope, 2 Pet. Adm. 438.
The Court of Cla'ims first'presumes, that New Orleans being
Desmare's domicile Irior- to his capture, he remained so domiciled afterwards; and from this presumption draws a consequent
presumption, that he must- have crossed the line to buy the
cotton. But no presumption can be safely drawn from a presumption. Douglass v. Mitchell's Executor, 35 Penn. 440.
War made all the inhabitants of Louisiana enemies of the
Union. To this rule there were no exaeptions in law, and few
in fact. As fast as the territory was reconquered, its inhabitants, did not legally become loyal, and vested with the capacity
to stand in judgment in tl:
-, Court of Claims, or any other
national court. Until pardoned, and their allegiance was renewed, they were enemies. The essential elements of* illegal
traffic in time of war are: 1st, That it takes place between
members of the two nations respectively in hostility to each
other; 2d, That it counteracts the operations of war. 1 Kent,
66. Both of these elements- must concur. Griswold v. Waddington, 15 Johns. 57; United States.v. Grossmayer, 9 Wall. 72;
Montgomery v. United States, 15 id. 395; Coppell v. Hall, 7 id.
542; United States v. Lapiene, 17 id. 601; Mitchell v. United
States, 21 id. 350.
Neither of these elements is involved in this case.
Mr. Solicitor-General Phillips, contra.
MR. JsUToE SwAmN delivered the opinion of the court.
The judgment of this court in Mitchell v. United States, 21
Wall. 350, is decisive of this case. It is unnecessary to repeat
what was there said. The subject of domicile in some of its
VOL. 17.

39

DESMARE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

aspects was carefully considered. We shall avail ourselves of
its rulings without again specially referring to it. The findings
of the Court of Claims furnish the facts we are to consider, and
we cannot look beyond them. For the purposes of this case
they import absolute verity and conclude both parties.
Before the breaking out of the late civil war, the appellant
was domiciled in the city of New Orleans. He was a member
of a commercial partners.hip there. There is no proof of any
change of domicile subsequently. A domicile once existing
continues until another is acquired. A person cannot be without a legal domicile somewhere. Where a change of domicile
is alleged, the burden of proof rests upon the party making the
allegation.
The cotton covered by the claim in the present case was all
purchased by the appellant in the parish of St. Landry, in the
State of Louisiana, between the 1st of October, 1862, and the
1st of April, 1863. That territory was then within the rebel
lines. The appellant was there acting as the agent of the
rebel government in exchanging its bonds for Confederate
notes. His office, as such agent, was at Opelousas, in that
parish.
On the 6th of April, 1862, Admiral Farragut reached New
Orleans with his fleet. On the following day he demanded of
the mayor the surrender of the city. No resistance was offered.
On the 1st of May transports conveying the troops of General
Butler arrived. On the following day their landing was completed. The military occupation of the city by the United
States then began, and it continued without interruption down
to the close of the war. On the 6th of May the commanding
general issued a proclamation (prepared and dated on the 1st),
whereby it was declared that "all rights of property of whatever kind will be held inviolate, subject only to the laws of the
United States." The non-intercourse act of July 13, 1861 (12
Stat. 257), and the President's proclamations of the 16th of
August, 1861 (12 Stat. 1262), of the 12th of May, 1862 (12
Stat. 1262), and of the 2d of April, 1863 (13 Stat. 731), need
not be particularly adverted to. They have been so often considered by this court in previous cases, that the public and the
profession are familiar with them. The parish of St. Landry

Oct. 1876.]

DESMARE v.

UNITED STATES.

was also subjugated by the arms of the United States in April,
1863. The cotton in question was thereupon seized, and subsequently sold, and the proceeds paid into the treasury of the
United States, where they remain. Those proceeds are the subject of this litigation.
Upon the issuing of General Butler's pro.clamation, the legal
status of New Orleans and its inhabitants, with respect to the
United States, became changed. Before that time the former
was enemies' territory and the latter were enemies, in all respects as if the pending strife had been a public war between
the United States and a foreign belligerent, and the city had
been a part of the country of the enemy, although the conflict
was, in fact, only a domestic insurrection of large proportions.
The city was blockaded; and the property of its inhabitants,
wherever found at sea, was seized, condemned, and confiscated
as prize of war. General Butler's proclamation was proof of the
subjugation of the city and The re-establishment of the national
authority. The hostile character of the territory thereupon
ceased, and the process of rehabilitation began. The inhabitants were at once permitted to resume, under the regulations
prescribed, their wonted commerce with other places, as if the
State had not belonged to the rebel organization. The Venice,
2 Wall. 258. But they were clothed with new duties as well
as new rights. It was a corollary from the new condition of
things, that they should obey the inhibition of trade with the
localities still under the ban of the President's proclamation of
the 16th of August, 1861. In this respect they were on the
same footing with the inhabitants of the loyal States, abiding
in such States, and with the citizens of such States, and foreigners then sojourning in New Orleans. It was not a penal
infliction, but was intended for the benefit of the nation in the
prosecution of the war. It was a burden incident to the effort
the government was making to put down the insurrection. It
was the plain duty of the appellant to obey the injunction.
Instead of doing so, while his domicile, in the view of the law,
was and continued to be at New Orleans, be went or remained
within the rebel lines, engaged actively in the service of the
rebel government, and was so engaged when and where, as he
alleges, he acquired the ownership of the cotton in question.

CITY OF WINONA V.

COWDREY.

[Sup. Ct.

His contracts for the cotton were clearly illegal and void, and
gave him no title. Such has been the ruling of this court in
an unbroken series of adjudications. Coppel v. Hall, 7 Wall.
548; United States v. Lane, 8 id. 185; United States v. Grossmeyer, 9 id. 72; United States v. Xontgomery,'15 id. 395; United
States v. Lapine, 17 id. 602; Hllit l ell v. United States, 21 id. 350.
The result is the same as if the purchases had been made
by an agent of the appellant, sent by him from New Orleans,
instead of having been made by himself in person.
To hold otherwise would give a premium to a law-breaker,
and involve the anomaly of conceding to the offender rights and
immunities denied to all the citizens of the loyal States.
Judgment affirmef.

CITY OF WOIONA v. COWDREY.
The contract between the city of Winona and the Minnesota Railway Construction Company, bearing date April 23, 1870, construed, and the rights of the
respective parties thereto discussed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Minnesota.
This was an action against the city of Winona upon certain
coupons attached to bonds, referred- to in a contract between
the city and the Minnesota Railway Construction Company,.
which is as follows: "This agreement, made this twenty-third day of April, 1870, by
and between the city of Winona, of the State of Minnesota, and
the Minnesota Railway Construction Company, a corpoiation organized under the laws of the State of Minnesota, and now engaged
in the construction of the St. Paul and Chicago Railway, witnesseth: "That whereas the building of a railroad from St. Paul to
Winona is of great public utility and benefit, and a public improve.
ment, which, it is believed, would be particularly beneficial and advantageous to the city of Winona; and whereas said St. Paul and
Chicago Railway will connect, by bridge or ferry, at Winona with
the La Crosse, Tremlpealeau, and Prescott Railroad, now being constructed, and will, when both railroads are completed, open and fur-

