RUSSELL V. DODGE.

[Sup. Ct.

they understood and claimed that this form of words gave them
the right to have all their troops and property transported by
these companies free of charge; and that as full performance
was, in the condition of things at that time, impossible, they
waived the exercise of that right as long as the war lasted, and
would make a provisional arrangement for that time to enable

the companies' to get along.
Were not the parties who received and acted upon grants
made the next year bound to know and understand the sense in

which Coiigress used this form of words ? Can they now be
heard to say that another and far different meaning was attached to .them by Congress from that which the same body
asserted for them a year before? If they did not wish to
accept the grants under that construction, they need not do it.
But if they did accept them, and have sold the land, they are
bound by the public statutory construction previously given by
Congress of the meaning which they attached to the words
used in the grants.

For these reasons, I am of opinion that the

judgment of the Court of Claims ought to be affirmed.

RUSSELL v. DODGE.
1. Where a reissued patent is granted upon a surrender of the original, for its
alleged defective or insufficient specification, such specification cannot be
substantially changed in the reissued patent, either by the addition of new
*matter or the omission of important particulars, so as to enlarge the scope
of the invention, as originally claimed. A defective specification can be rendered more definite and certain, so as to embrace the claim made, or the
claim can be so modified as to correspond with the specification; but, except
under special circumstances, this is the extent to which the operation of the
original patent can be changed by the reissue.
2. Where the Patent was for a process of treating bark-tanned lamb or sheep'skin
by means of a compound, in which heated -fat liquor was an essential ingredient, and a change was made in the original specification, by eliminating
the necessity of using the fat'liquor in a heated condition, and making, in
the new-specification, its use in that condition a mere matter of convenience,
and by inserting an independent claim for the use of fat liquor in the
treatment of leather generally, the character ind scope of the invention, as
originally claimed; were held to be so enlarged as to constitute a different
invention.
S. The action of the Commissioner of Patents, in granting a reissue within the
limits of his authority, is not open 'to collateral impeachment; but, his

-

Oct. 1876.]

RUSSELL v. DODGE.

authority being limited to a reissue for the same invention, the two patents
may be compared to determine the identity of the invention. If the reissued
patent, when thus compared, appears on its face to be for a different invention, it is void, the commissioner having exceeded his authority in issuing it.
4. Klein v. Rnssell, 19 Wall. 433, stated and qualified.

APPE-AL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
3ir. Horace B. Smith for the appellant.
Mr. T. L. Trakefield, contra.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit for an infringement of a: patent, obtained by
the complainant for an alleged new and useful improvement in
the preparation of leather, with a prayer that the defendant be
decreed to account for and pay to him the gains and profits
derived by them from making, using, and vending the improvement, and be enjoined from further infringement; The court
below dismissed the bill, and the complainant appealed to this
court.
The patent bears date in February, 1870, and was issued
upon a surrender and cancellation of a previous patent obtained
by the complainant in August, 1869, upon the allegation that
the original patent was inoperative and invalid by reason of an
insufficient and defective specification of the improvement.
The validity of the reissued patent is assailed on the ground
that it describes a different invention from that claimed in the
original patent, and for want of novelty in the- invention.
Other grounds of invalidity are also stated; but, in the view
we take of the case, they will not require consideration.
In the schedule accompanying the patent, giving a description of the alleged invention, and constituting a part of the
instrument, the complainant declares that he has " invented a
new and useful improvement in the preparation of leather ;"
that , the invention consists in a novel preparation of what is
known as bark-tanned lamb or sheep skin," by which the article is rendered soft and free, and adapted, among other uses,
for the manufacture of what are termed "dog-skin gloves;"
and that "the principal feature of the invention consists in the
employment of what is known among tanners and others as

462

RUSSELL V. DODGE.

[Sup. Ct.

'fat liquor,' which is ordinarily obtained by scouring deer-skin
after tanning in oil," but which may be produced by the cutting of oil with a suitable alkali. The schedule then proceeds
to state that in treating the leather with fat liquor "it is
desirable to heat the liquor to or near the boiling-point, and
that it is preferred to use the same in connection with other
ingredients," such as soda, common salt, and soap, in specified
quantities for each ten gallons of the heated liquor; and that
"to effect the treatment" the skin should be well dipped in or
saturated with the fat liquor or compound, of which fat liquor
is the base. The schedule closes by a declaration that what
the patentee claimed and desired to be secured by letters-patent was, 1. "The.employment of fat liquor in the treatment of leather
substantially as specified."
2. "The process, substantially as herein described, of treating bark-tanned lamb or sheep skin by means of a compound
composed and applied essentially as specified."
It is clear from this statement that the patent is for the use
of fat liquor in any condition, hot or cold; in the treatment of
leather, and for a procees of treating bark-tanned lamb or
sheep skin, by means of a compound in which fat liquor is the
principal ingredient. The state of the liquor is not mentioned
as essential to the treatment, or to accomplish any of the
results sought. It is only stated as a thing to be desired.,that
the liquor should be heated, and that it would be preferable
that other ingredients were mixed with the heated liquor to
make the compound mentioned. In other words, the specification declares, that by heating the liquor the effect desired will
be'more readily produced ; that is, more spt -dily or with less
trouble and expense, not that the heating is in any respect
essential to the treatment. Where a useful result is produced
in any art, manufacture, or composition of matter by the use
of certain means for which the inventor or discoverer obtains
a patent, it is, as justly observed by the presiding justice of
the Circuit Court, too plain for argument, that the means described must be the essential and absolutely necessary means,
and not mere adjuncts which may be used or abandoned at
pleasure.

Oct. 1876.]

RUSSELL v. DODGE.

The original patent was less extensive in its claim than the
reissue. That patent was for a procesg of treating bark-tanned
lamb or sheep skin by means of a compound, in which heated
fat liquor was an essential ingredient. The specification was
explicit in this particular, and left no doubt on th subject.
The reissued patent covers the use of the fat liquor in any condition, hot or cold, and when used alone-or in a compound
with other ingredients, and thus has a more extended operation, bringing under it manufactures not originally contemplated by the patentee. Is such a reissue valid?
The statute of 1836 (2 Stat. 122), under which the reissue
was granted, pirovided that whenever any' patent was inopera-_
tive or invalid by reason, of a defective or insufficient description or specification, or by reason of the patentee claiming as
his own invention more than he had a right to claim as new,
if the error arose from inadvertence, accident,- or mistake, and
without any fraudulent or deceptive intention, it should be
lawful for the commissioner, upon the surrender of such patent
and, the payment of a prescribed duty, to cause a new-patent
to be issued to the -inventor for the same invention, for the
residue of the period then unexpired, in accordance with the
corrected description and specification.
According to these provisions, a reissue could only be had
where the original patent was inoperative, or invalid, by reason
of a defective or insufficient description or- specification, or
where the claim of the patentee exceeded' his right; and then
only in case the error committed had arisen from the causes
stated. And as a reissue could only be granted for the same
invention embraced by the. original patent, the specification
could not be substantially changed, either by the addition of
new matter or the omission of important particulars, so as to
enlarge the scope of the invention as originally claimed. A
defective specification could be rendered more definite and certain so as to embrace the claim made, or the claim could be so
modified as to correspond with the specification; but except
under special circumstances, such as occurred in the case of
Lockwood v. Morey, 8 Wall. 230, where the inventor was induced to limit his claim by the mistake of the Commissioner
of Patents, this was the extent to which the operation of the

RUSSELL v.

DODGE.

[Sup. Ct.

original patent could be changed by the reissue. The object
of the law was to enable patentees to remedy accidental mistakes, and the law was perverted when any other end was
secured by the reissue.
Judged by that law,-and the provisions of the act of 1870 on
this subject are substantially the same, -there can be no doubt
of the invalidity of the reissue. The original patent was not
inoperative nor invalid from any defective or insufficient specification. The description given of the process claimed was, as
stated by the patentee, full, clear, and exact, and the claim
hovered the specification; the one corresponded with the other.
The change made in the old specification, by eliminating the
necessity of using the fat liquor in a heated condition, and
making in 1the new specification its use in that condition a mere
matter of convenience, and the insertion of an independent
claim for the use of fat liquor in the treatment of leather generally, operated to enlarge the character and scope of the invention. The evident object of the patentee in seeking a reissue
was not to correct any defects in specification or claim, but to
ciange both, and thus obtain, in fact, a patent for a different invention. This result the law, as we have seen, does not permit.
The ddcision of the commissioner in granting the reissue is, it
is true, so far conclusive as to preclude in the present suit for
infringement any inquiry into its correctness outside of the
patents themselves. His action in any case, within the limits
of- his authority, is not open to collateral impeachment. But
that authority being limited to a reissue for the same invention
;s that embraced in the original patent, a reissue for any thing
more is necessarily inoperative and void. To determine the
identity of the invention, the two patents may be compared.
Thus compared, the reissue here appears on its face to be for a
different invention, and the commissioner, therefore, exceeded
his authority in issuing it. Seymour v. Osborn, 11 Wall. 544;
Wicks v. Stevens, 2 Woods, 312.
In the case of Klein v. Russell, 19 Wall. 433, the question
was not before the court whether the reissued patent was
invalid because not for the same invention. The point was
not made in that case in the court below, and. for that reason,
it was stated, the point could not be. made here. It was to

Oct. 1876.]

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

be presumed, said this court, until the contrary was made to
appear, that the commissioner did his duty correctly in granting the reissue. What was subsequently said of the character
of the first claim, so far as it conflicts with the construction
here given, does not meet our approval, after the extended consideration the subject has since received.
But, assuming that the reissue is not void for the reasons
stated, the patent is still invalid for want of novelty in the
alleged invention. The use of fat liquor in the treatment of
bark-tanned skins was general with manufacturers for many
years previous to the alleged invention. Testimony to this
effect is given by numerous witnesses. It would subserve no
useful purpose to state this testimony; it is set forth -with
ample fulness in the opinion of the Circuit Court. It is sufficient for us to say. that it is entirely satisfactory to our minds.
-Decreeaffirmed.

WIGGINS v. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.
1. A writ of error from this court to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah
is allowed by sect. 3 of the act of Congress of June 23, 1874 (18 Stat. 254),
in criminal cases, where the accused has been sentenced to capital punishment, or convicted of bigamy or polygamy.
2. In a trial for homicide, where the question, whether the prisoner or the deceased commenced the encounter which resulted in death, is in any manner
of doubt, it is competent to prove threats of violence against the prisoner made by the deceased, though not brought to the knowledge of the
prisoner.

to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah.
Argued by Mr. George H. Williams for the plaintiff in error,
and by M11r. Solicitor-General Phillips, contra.
ERROR

MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Sect. 3 of the act of Congress of June 23, 1874 (18 Stat. 254),
allows a writ of error from this court to the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Utah, where the defendant has been convicted
of bigamy-or polygamy, or has been sentenced to death fdr any
crime. The present writ is brought under that statute to obtain
a review of a sentence of death against plaintiff in error for tle
VOL. Iix.

80

