COUNTY OF RANDOLPH V. POST.

[Sup. Ct.

Great injustice will, in my judgment, be done to the public to
allow a patent obtained under such circumstances to stand.
The public had a right to suppose that no further application
'would be made. The levy'of a tribute now on all the dentists
of the country who have brought the plate into public notice
and use seems to me a species of injustice. The delay of the
patentee, in fact,-is made to operate to his benefit instead of his
prejudice, his patent being made td run eight years longer
than it would' have done had it been granted when first applied
for; so that the public is still further injured by sustaining
the patent as finally granted. It is too common a case that
associated companies, in order to maintain some valuable monopoly, look about to see what abandoned invention or rejected
application, or ineffective patent, can be picked up, revamped,
and carried through the Patent Office, and by the aid of
ingenious experts and skilful counsel succeed in getting the
desired protection. I think that the cQurts ought to be strict in
maintaining the rights of the public in such cases. And the
present case seems to me to be one in which we ought to hold
the patent invalid as against those rights.

CouNY

OF RANDOLPH: V. POST.

1. A company is none the less a railroad company, within the meanirg of the
act of the general assembly of the State of Illinois, approved Nov. 6, 1849,
authorizing counties to subscribe to the capital stock of railroad companies,
because i s charter vests it with power to carry on, in addition to the business of such a company, that of a coal, or a mining, or a furnace, or a
manufacturing company.
2. It would be an unreasonable restriction of the rights and powers of a municipal corporation to hold that it cannot waive conditions found to be injurious
to its interests, or, like other parties to a contract, estop itself.
3. A county in Illinois, a subscriber to the stock of a railway company, agreed to
extend the time-for completing the road from that originally fixed to a particular date. Before that date, the county, by its proper officers, declared
the road completed to its satisfaction, delivered its bonds, and received the
steck of the company in return therefor.' Held, that its action constitutes a
waiver and an estoppel which prevent it from raising the objection that the
,contract was not performed in time.
4. The bonds issued by the county court of Randolph County, Ill., bearing date
Jan. 1, 1872, and reciting that they are issued in payment of a subscrip-

Oct. 1876.]

COUNTY OF RANDOLPH V. POST.

tion of $100,000 to the capital stock of the Chester and Tamaroa Coal and
Railway Company, in pursuance of an election held by the legal voters of
baid county, on the sixth day of June, 1870, and by virtue of the provisions
of an act of the general assembly of the State of Illinois, entitled "An Act
supplemental to an act to provide for a general system of railroad corporations," are, with the eoupons thereto attached, valid, and binding upon the
county.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
This was an action of assumpsit on certain coupons attached
to bonds issued by the county of Randolph, in payment of a
subscription of $100,000 to the capital stock of the Chester and
Tamaroa Coal and Railway Company.
On the 3d of May, 1870, the county court of Randolph
County, at a special term thereof, passed an order, which provided that the question of such subscription be submitted to
the legal voters of the county; that until the railroad of the
company should be built, and cars run thereon from within
the corporate limits of the city of Chester to the line of the
county, no bonds should be registered or paid; and that no
bonds should be registered or paid unless the said railroad
should be completed from Chester to that line within eighteen
months from the time of subscription.
At an election, held June 6, 1870, the vote resulted in favor
of the subscription. The county thereupon, on the twentyseventh day of that month, made its subscription on the books
of the company. On July 26, 1870, the county court ordered
that the bonds be executed and placed in the hands of certain
trustees. On Aug. 17 following, it modified that order, by
directing that the bonds be executed only at a regular term of
the court; and again, on the 6th of September, 1871, further
modified it, by requiring the judge and clerk of the court to
execute them, attach its seal thereto, and deliver them to the
trustees, and that the company should issue to the latter a
certificate of stock to the amount of $100,000; which was
accordingly done.
On the 6th of October, 1871, upon the representation of
the president of the company and others, that the work on
said railroad was fai advanced toward completion through the
county of Randolph, but that from unavoidable difficulties of
ERROR

COUNTY OF RANDOLPH V. POST.

[Sup. Ct.

transportation, caused by unprecedented low water in the rivers,
the company found itself unable to get its iron upon the ground
in the time contemplated by the previous orders of the county
court, the latter made an order, which, after reciting those before
issued, concluded as follows: "Whereas, the time for completing said road will expire on the
'twenty-seventh day of December, 1871, and it appearing that said
company are doing all they can to complete said road within said
time, it is therefore ordered by the court that the time for completion of said railroad be extended to the first day of February,
A.D. 1872, and that, in case said road shall be completed, and cars
shall have run thereon, from within the corporate limits of the city
of Chester to the county line between the counties of Randolph
and Perry, by the first day of February, A.D. 1872, the said trustees
shall deliver said bonds to said company, or their authorized agent,
and shall deliver said certificate of stock to said county court or
their order."
Plaintiff proved that the road was built and completed within
the time required by the county court through the county of
Randolph, according to contract; that it was upon its completion, and ever since has been, in full operation, with trains of
cars carrying freight and passengers as a common carrier
through said county, on the line prescribed by the contract;
that said bonds were not issued and delivered to said railroad
company until after the officers of said county had gone over
said railroad in the cars of said company through said county,
and expressed themselves satisfied -with the construction of said
railroad.*
The bonds were delivered to the company Jan. 19, 1872.
The coupons sued on were as follows, differing only in the
time of maturity and number of the bond to which each was
attached: "COUNTY

OF R&NDOLPI, STATE OF ILLINOIS:

"The county of Randolph will pay to the bearer, on the first
day'of July, 1872, at the agency of the State treasurer, in the city
of New York, forty dollars, it being one year's interest on bond
No. 183, for $500.
"JOHN R. SHANNON,
" County Clerk of Randolph Co!"

Oct. 1876.]

COUNTY OF RANDOLPH V. POST.

The bonds were in the following form: " UNITED STATES OF AmERICA.

"State of Illinois, -Randolph County.

"No. 1.]

RAILROAD BOND.

[$500.

"Know all men by these presents, that the county of Randolph,
State of Illinois, is indebted to the Chester and Tamaroa Coal and
Railway Company, or bearer, in the sum of $500, lawful money of
the United States, with interest from date, at the rate of eight per
cent per annum, payable annually on the first day of July in each
year, at the agency of the State treasurer, in the city of New York,.
on the presentation and surrender of the respective interest-coupons
hereto annexed.
"The principal of this bond shall be due and payable ten years
from the date hereof, at said agency of State treasurer, in New
York.
"This bond is one of a series of bonds issued by the county of
Randolph in payment for $100,000 of the capital stock of the Chester and Tamaroa Coal and Railway Company, in pursuance of an
election held by the legal voters of Randolph County, Ill., on the
sixth day of June, 1870, and by virtue of the provisions of an act
of the general assembly of the State of Illinois entitled, ' An Act
supplemental to an act to provide for a general system of railroad
corporations.'
"And for the payment of said sum of money and accruing
interest thereon in the manner aforesaid the faith of the county
of Randolph is hereby irrevocably pledged, as also property, revenue, and resources.
"In testimony whereof, the county court of said county of Randolph have caused these presents to be signed by the county judge
and by the clerk of the county court of said county, and sealed with
the seal of said court, at Chester, Ill., in said county, on this first

day of January,

A.D.

1872.
" ALEXANDER WOOD, County Judge.

"JOHN- R.

SANN oN, County Clerk."

The act of the general assembly, referred to in the bonds, is,
together with the provision of the constitution bearing upon
the case, set forth in the opinion of the court.
The case was, by agreement, tried by the court below
without the intervention of a jury. Judgment was rendered

COUNTY OF RANDOLPH V. POST.

[Sup. 0t.

for the plaintiff; whereupon the county sued out this writ of
error.
Submitted on printed argument by .tr. John M. Palmer for
the plaintiff in error.
The county of Randolph had no authority to subscribe to
the capital stock of the Chester and Tamaroa Coal and Railway Company. Kenicott v. Supervisors, 16 Wall. 452.
That corporation was not a "railroad company" within the
meaning of the act of the general assembly of Illinois of
Nov. 6, 1849, which confers authority upon counties to become
shareholders only in corporations organized solely for the construction of railroads.
If, from the nature of this corporation, the county could not
become the purchaser of shares of its capital stock, and participate in all its doings to the extent that private individuals
might, every other fact or circumstance in its conduct or acts,
or in those of the people of the county, or of their officers;
imposes no liability and creates no estoppel.
The argument that a county may bind itself to secure the
construction of a railroad, without becoming a subscriber to, or
a purchaser of sbares of, the capital stock of the company by
which it is constructed, assumes that a county may issue bonds
in aid of such construction, without reference to the act of
1849, or, in other words, that it may do so without law; for
that act alone is recited in the bonds, and relied on to sustain
their validity.
The argument, that the bonds and coupons sued on are valid
because the proceeds were used in the construction of a railroad,
not only rests on a fact which is not alleged nor proved, but
impliedly concedes their invalidity, if the proceeds had been
otherwise used, and thus deprives them of the character of
commercial paper claimed for them, reduces them to the class
of simple contracts, and renders it necessary to prove the consideration upon which they were given.
To assert that a county may own stock in a corporation, to
the extent of participating in the exercise of some but not all
of the powers of a stockholder, is to disregard the statute, as
well as the general principles of law.
But even if the subscription was made by proper authority, it

Oct. 1876.]

COUNTY OF RANDOLPH V. POST.

was a contract between the county and the railroad corporation.
The constitution of the State, which t6ok effect July 2, 1870,
deprived the county of all power in respect to such contracts,
beyond what was necessary to enable it to complete them
according to the measure of its duty as therein defined, and
incapacitated it to assume new obligations, or to waive any of
the conditions upon which its duty to issue bonds was by contract made to depend. All the powers of the county officers,
after the adoption of the constitution, were, with respect to the
execution of the contract, merely ministerial, and in no sense
discretionary.
The railroad was not completed from within the limits of the
city of Chester to the line of Randolph County, within eighteen months from the date of the subscription, as provided by
the contract of subscription. The bonds were therefore made
by the officers of the county, without authority of law, and are
for that reason void.
The test of the soundness of this conclusion is, that the
company, by reason of its failure to complete its road within
the time and in the manner contemplated by the vote of the
people and by the contract pursuant thereto, had no just claim
to the bonds; and the officers of the county had no rightful
power or authority to issue them.
Ai1r. S. 11. Cullom, contra.
HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
By consent of the parties, this case was tried by the circuit
judge without the intervention of a jury. It resulted in a judgment for the plaintiff below, for the amount of the coupons
upon certain bonds issued by the county of Randolph and held
by the plaintiff, thus establishing the validity of an issue by
said county of bonds in aid of the Chester and Tamaroa Coal
and Railway Company. The county, dissatisfied with this
result, brings its appeal to this court, and rests its objections
upon two principal grounds :1. The first allegation of error is, that the issue of these
bonds was forbidden by the constitution of the State of Illinois.
A separate article of the constitution of that State provided
as follows :MR. JusTICoE

COUNTY OF RANDOLPH V. POST.

[Sup. Ot.

"No county, city, town, township, or other municipality shall
ever become subscriber to the capital stock of any railroad or private corporation, or make a donation, or loan its credit in aid of
such corporation: Providecl,however, that the adoption of this article shall not be construed as affecting the right of any municipality
to make such subscriptions when the same have been authorized
under. existing laws by a vote of the people of such municipality
prior to such adoption."
This provision took effect on the 2d of July, 1870. lichards v. iDonaghue, 66 Ill. 73.
If, then, the county of Randolph had been authorized, prior
to July 2, 1870, to make the subscription in question, the
bonds were valid, so far as this objection is concerned. If it
was not so authorized, the subscription was prohibited by the
constitution, and the bonds were void.
It will be observed
that the decision of this point depends not upon the questi6n
whether a subscription had in fact been made by a county
prior to July 2, 1870, but whether the county had been authorized in the manner specified to make such subscription. The
provision does not apply where such subscriptions " have been
authorized under existing laws."
The act of the legislature of Illinois, respecting railroad companies, in force prior to the adoption of the constitutional provision, contained the following sections: ' 77. Subscriptions and loans. Whenever the citizens of any
city or county in this State are desirous that said city or county
should subscribe for stock in any railroad company already organized or incorporated, or hereafter to be organized or incorporated,
under any law of this State, such city or county may and are hereby
authorized to purchase or subscribe for shares of the capital stock
in any such company, in any sum not exceeding 8100,000, for each
of such cities or counties ; and the stock so subscribed for, or purchased, shall be under the control of the county court of the county,
or common council of the city, making such subscription or purchase, in all respects as stock owned by individuals.
"78. For the payment of such stock, the judges of the county
court of the county, or the common council of the city, making
such subscription or purchase, are hereby authorized tor borrow
nioney, at a rate not exceeding ten per cent per annum, and to
pledge the faith of the county or city for the annual payment of

Oct. 1876.]

COUNTY OF RANDOLPH V. POST.

the interest, and the ultimate redemption of the principal; or, if
the said judges or common council should deem it-most advisable,
they are hereby authorized to pay for such subscription or purchase
in bonds of the city or county making such subscription, to be
drawn for that purpose, in sums not less than fifty dollars, bearing
interest not exceeding ten per cent per annum, provided that no
bond shall be paid out at a rate less than par value.
"79. The railroad companies already organized or incorporated,
or hereafter to be organized or incorporated, under the laws of this
State, are hereby authorized to receive the bonds of any county or
city becoming subscribers to the capital stock of such company, at
par, and in lieu of cash, and to issue their bonds, bearing interest
not exceeding ten per cent per annum, for any money by them borrowed for the construction of their railroad and fixtures, or for the
purchase of engines and cars; and for such purpose may dispose
of any bonds by them rtceived as aforesaid."
The section following enacts that no such bonds shall be
issued unless a majority of the voters of the municipality shall,
at an election called for that purpose, sanction such issue. It
is not necessary to give the details of this section, as no question exists as to the holding the election on the sixth day of
June, 1870, and to the vote thereat, as set forth in the bonds.
The point of the objection here made is, that the Chester and
Tamaroa Coal and Railway Company is not a railroad company
within the meaning of the general act already cited. It is said
that it is a mining and a manufacturing company, and not a
railroad company.
By an act of the legislature, passed March 4, 1869, that company was created a corporation, and "vested with all power,
privileges, and immunities which are or may be necessary to
engage in mining, and to construct, complete, and operate a
railroad, with single or double track, commencing at Chester,
in Randolph County, Ill., thence running easterly on the most
eligible route, via Pinckneyville, in Henry County, Ill., to
Tamaroa, in said Perry County; and for this purpose said
company are authorized to lay out their said railroad, not exceeding one hundred feet in width through the whole length,
and, for the purpose of cuttings, embankments, stone, or gravel,
may take as much more land as may be necessary for the proper
construction and security of said railroad, and shall have power

COUNTY OF RANDOLPH V. POST.

[Sup. Ct.

to extend the same to connect with or cross over any other railroad within the State of Illinois, and may make such lateral or
branch road or roads to any coal-lands belonging to said company as they may deem necessary for the successful prosecution
of their business; and said company may enter upon ahd take
possession of so much land as may be necessary for the construction and maintenance of said railroad and branches, dc6pts,
side-tracks, water-stations, engine-houses, machine-shops, and
other buildings and appendages necessary to the construction
and working of said road; and in case said land be not donated
to said company for such purpose, it shall be lawful for said
company to proceed to condemn said land, as provided by the
laws of the State concerning right of way.
"SEMT. 2. The said corporation may take and transport upon said
railroad any person or persons, nerchandise, or other property, and
may fix, establish, take, and receive such rates of toll, for any passenger and property transported upon the same, as the directors
shall, from time to time, establish, subject to such limitations and
restrictions as are or may be provided by general law.
"SECT. 3.The said corporation is hereby vested with power to
purchase, hold, and convey real and personal estate; to give and
receive prom.issory notes; to enter into and carry'on all kinds of
mechanical and manufacturing bhsiness; to erect mills, furnaces,
founderies, factories, and machine-shops, for the manufacture of
flour, lumber, iron, castings, machinery, farming-utensils, and any
other kind or description of article not forbiddeh by law; and may
erect and build marine ways or dry-docks, and use the same for
the purposes of repairing and building boats, barges, or any other
description of water-craft; may buy, build, and own boats, barges,
or other vessels, and navigate the same for the transportation of
their coal, manufactures, or for other purposes."

We are .at a loss to -conceive what words could be used to
create a railroad company that are not here used. The persons
named are "hereby created a corporation," and authority is
given "to cohstruct, complete, - and operate a railroad;" from
Chester, a point in Randolph County on, the Illinois Railroad, to
Tamaroa, ,) point on the Mlississippi River. They are autho.rized to extend their road, by-laterql branches. tG connect with
other roads; and the power of eminent domain, to condemn such

Oct. 1876.]

COUNTY OF RANDOLPH V. POST.

land as may be needed for building the railroad, is vested in
the corporation.
The corporation is authorized to take and transport upon said
road all persons and property, and to fix and establish rates of
toll for the transportation of such persons and property.
It is n'ot the less a railroad company within the statute authorizing municipal subscriptions because it is also a coal, or a mining, or a furnace, or a manufacturing company. By the third
section of its charter it is vested with large power to carry on
various kinds of mechanical and mining business, and is authorized to build and use vessels and barges in the transportation of
coal, and for other purposes.
If the legislature had placed great restrictions upon its capacity as a railroad corporation, it might plausibly be objected that
the purpose of a municipal subsoription to its stock would be so
far thwarted. Such purpose is to promote the settlement and
increase the business and enhance the value of the property of
the municipality and of its citizens by furnishing the means of
passage to all wishing to come or to go, and providing a means
of bringing in the produce of other regions and of furnishing a
market for its own. The vast corn-growing lands of the State
of Illinois depend for their value upon their convenience to
a market. A few years ago, its rich production was almost
valueless, for the want of railroads or canals to carry it to other
regions, where it could have been sold to advantage.
No court has authority to say that an operating railroad, is
less a railroad, is less valuable to a county through which it
passes, because it proposes to mine and transport coal, to manufacture and transport flour, to carry on iron founderies, digging
or buying the raw materials, employing men to manufacture
them into different kinds of iron or articles of use or luxury,
and transporting them as may be required, than if it confined
itself to the business of a carrier. So far as the probable success or advantages of such undertakings are concerned, it is not
for us to decide upon it. The people of Randolph knew what
the powers of the corporation were, and if they thought well
of the undertaking, i6 was a matter for their judgment only.
The question of power being settled, the matter of judgment,
wisdom, or expediency is not for reconsideration by the courts.

COUNTY OF RANDOLPH V. POST.

[Sup. Ct.

2. The objection is made, secondly, that the subscription of
the county was a conditional one, and that the condition was
not complied with.
The allegation is, that by the terms of the contract of subscription the road was agreed to be completed and in operation
within eighteen months from the date of the subscription, which
would be on the twenty-seventh day of December, 1871, and
that it was not completed until the nineteenth day of January,
1872.
We do not think the fact upon which this objection is based
appears from the record. It is certain that no attention was
called to it in the court below, and no ruling there asked or had
in relation to it. It is there stated that "the plaintiff proved
that the road was built and completed within the time required
by the county court of Randolph, according to contract; that
it was upon its completion put into operation, and has been
ever since and now is in full operation, with trains of cars
catrying freight and passengers. as a common carrier through
said county of Randolph on the line prescribed by the contract. . . . Said bonds were not issued and delivered to said
railroad company until said county officers . . . had first rode.
over said railroad in cars of said company through the county
of Randolph, and expressed themselves satisfied with the construction of said railroad."
This plain statement is supposed to be overthrown by the
evidence of a petition presented to the county court by the
company on the sixth day of October, 1871, in which it is
stated that, for reasons there given, it will not be able to complete the road within the time stipulated, and asking an extension from Dec. 27, 1871, until Feb. 1, 1872, and of the order
of the county court granting such extension.
This is evidence, no doubt, that the company then believed
that it wduld not be able to'complete the road as it had undertaken, and that it desired to guard itself against default,
as well as that the county was ready to grant the request.
This was, however, ninety days before the expiration of the
time stipulated; and it is by no means difficult to believe that
the company overcame the existing obstacles. It could not
obtain the bonds until the road was completed; and it had the

Oct. 1876.]

COUNTY OF RANDOLPH V. POST.

strongest motive, therefore, not to accept the indulgence of the
county, if it was possible to avoid it.
The evidence shows that the bonds had been delivered on the
nineteenth day of January, thirteen days before the expiration
of the extended time, and that the road was completed and in
operation before such delivery. It appears, also, from the citation already made from the- record, that the road was built
through the county "according to contract." When it is stated
in the bill of exceptions that the "plaintiff, to maintain the
issue on his part, offered in evidence the contract made by the
county court of Randolph County, also the order of the county
court extending the time for the completion of the road," it is
plain that the distinction between the contract and the order of
extension was well understood, and that the statement that the
road was found to be completed according to the contract, means
within the time and in the manner prescribed by the original
contract, and not by the extension.
If the fact assumed is doubtful, we are not called upon to
8tudyy out a defect for the purpose of overthrowing the judgment, which was not objected to, or in 4ny manner alluded to
on the trial.
Should we, however, assume the fact to be as is insisted by
the plaintiff in error, it does not follow that its conclusion is
correct. The constitutional provision alluded to prohibited all
loans to corporations of municipal, credits after July 2, 1870.
If, however, a subscription for that purpose had already been
authorized by a vote ol the people, the right to make such
gubscription was not affected by the prohibition. If not authorized before the date mentioned,.the subscription -was absolutely prohibited. If previously authorized, the constitution had
nothing to do with it. It was as if no such ordinance existed.
We should unreasonably restrict the rights and powers of a
municipal corporation were we to hold that it did not possess
the power to alter its legally made contract by waiving conditions found to be injurious to its interests, or that it could not
estop itself, like other parties to a contract. Bigelow on Estoppel, 464; ioran v. (omm'rs, 2 Black, 722; Zabriskie v. Cleveland, 23 How. 400; Pendleton v. Avery1 , 13 VralL 297; 1 Dill.
Mun. Corp., sects. 375,3-83, 385, 398.
VOL. 111.

33

WHITE ET AL. v.

LUNING.

[Sup. Ot.

In the present case, the county, by an order in writing made
on the sixth day of October, 1871, expressly agreed, for reasons satisfactory to itself, to extend the time of completing
the road from the twenty-seventh day of December, 1871, to the
wit, on
first day of February, 1872. Before that time, -to
the nineteenth day of January, 1872,- it declared the road to
be completed to its satisfaction, delivered its bonds to the company, and received its stock in return, which it still holds and
owns. That this constitutes a waiver and an estoppel, which
under ordinary circumstances would prevent the obligor from
raising the objection that the contract had not been performed
in time, the authorities leave no doubt. Mudler v. Ponder,
55 N. Y. 325; Barnard v. Campbell, id. 457; fitfel[arler v.
Bank, id. 222; Kelly v. Scott, 49 id. 601; Dezell v. O'Dell,
3 -16w. 215; Grand Chute v. Tinegar, 15 Wall. 372; iercer
Co. v. Haekett; 1 Black, 336; Gelpeke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall.
15; id. 184; County of M]loultrie v. Savings Bank, 92 U. S.
631; Converse v. City of Fort Scott, id. 503.
We are of the opinion that the case was well decided, and
A#Irmed.
the judgment is accordingly

WHITE

T AL. v. LUNING.

1. The rule that monuments, natural or artificial, rather than courses and distances, control in the construction of a conveyance of real estate, will not
be enforced, when the instrument would be thereby defeated, and when
the rejection of a call for a monunent would reconcile other parts of the
description, and leave enough to identify the land.
2. So far as it relates to the description of the property conveyed, the rule of
construction is the same, whether the deed be made by a party in his own
right or by an officer of the court.

E RaoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
This was an action of ejectment by the defendant in error
to recover the possession of certain lands situate in Santa Cruz
County, Cal., being a part of the rancho Sal Si Puedes, and
containing 1,0211 acres.

