BROUGHTON V. PENSACOLA.

[Sup. Gt.

have failed by the lapse of time and the operation of unavoidable contingencies. It is to be presumed that the legislature
will do what is equitable and just; and in this case legislative
action seems to be absolutely requisite.
Judgment afirmed.

BROUGHTON v. PENSACOLA.
A change in the charter of a municipal corporation, in whole or part, by an
amendment of its provisions, or the substitution of a new charter in place of
the old one, embracing substantially the same corporators and the sajne territory, will -not be deemed, in the absence of express legislative declaration
otherwise, to affect the identity of the corporation, or to relieve it from its previous liabilities, although different powers are possessed under the amended
or new charter, and different officers administer its affairs.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Florida.
Argued by Mtlr. P. Phillips and Xr. Thomas C. Jones for
the appellant.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. . . Yonge for the
appellee.
AIR. JUSTICE FmLED delivered the opinion of the court.

By an act passed on the 2d of March, 1839, by the then Territory, now State, of Florida, the city of Pensacola, at the time
a pre-existing corporation, was rechartered, and its powers were
vested in a mayor and board of aldermen, who Were, at all
times, to continue "to act in their respective functions" until
the election and qualification of their successors in office.
Among the powers conferred by the charter was the power to
borrow money, not exceeding $5,000 a year, and to levy taxes
and provide for their collection, with a limitation of the
amount to be levied upon real estate to three-fourths of one
per cent.
In December, 1850, by an amendatory act, these limitations
were repealed, and a larger loan and a greater rate of taxation
upon real estate were allowed. By a further amendatory act,
passed on the 3d of January, 1853, the mayor and aldermen,
With the consent of a majority of the corporation, were author-

Oct. 1876.]

BROUGHTON

V. PENSACOLA.

ized to subscribe, in the name of the city, any amount of money
which they might deem necessary to any railroad leading from
the city and, for the purpose of procuring the amount of the
subscription, were empowered to borrow the same, and impose
a tax upon real estate within its limits, not exceeding two per
cent on the assessed value of the property. By another act,
passed in the same month, the Alabama and Florida Railroid Company was chartered to construct a railroad from some
point on Pensacola Bay (the city being the point afterwards
selected) northward to the boundary line of Florida and Alabama, and there to connect with another line of road to be constructed from the city of Montgomery, Ala.
Under the act of Jan. 3, 1853, the city of Pensacola subscribed $260,000 to the capital stock of this railroad company,
and in payment of the same executed and delivered to the company five hundred bonds of $500 each, payable twenty years
after date, with interest at the rate of seven per cent per
annum, payable semi-annually on the first days of January and
July, at such bank in the city of New York as the treasurer
might direct, on the surrender of the coupons for such interest
attached to the bonds.
The plaintiff is the holder of sixteen hundred and ninety of
these coupons, now past due, and alleges that the city has never
made any provision for their payment at any bank in the city
of New York, or at any other place; that, until about the
1st of January, 1871, the city received the coupons in payment
of taxes, although the taxes assessed were never sufficient to
absorb the coupons as they matured, but that since that time
the city has refused, and still refuses, to recognize its obligation
to pay them. Several judgments have been recovered by other
parties upon coupons of the same kind against the city; but
executions issued thereon have been returned wholly unsatisfied, because the city possessed no property out of which they
could be made.
The constitution of Florida, adopted in 1868, provided that
the legislature should "establish a uniform system of county,
township, and municipal government." In pursuance of this
requirement, the legislature, in 1868 and 1869, passed acts-" to
provide for the incorporation of cities and towns, and to estab-

BROUGHTON V.

PENSACOLA.

[Sup. Ot.

lish a uniform system of municipal government" in the State.
These aets authorized the establishment of a municipal government, with corporate powers and privileges by the voluntary
action of the male inhabitants of any hamlet, village, or town
in the State, not less than one hundred in humber; and also
provided for the reorganization of existing municipal corporations under their provisions. Under these acts the charter of
the city was surrendered, and attempts were made to reorganize its government; but these attempts failed, because the reorganization was not made within the periods prescribed. In
consequence of such failure, and because the acts provided for
the cessation of corporate authority in case the reorganization
was not effected within the periods designated, the citizens
residing within the limits of the city proceeded to establish a
municipal government with corporate authority, under the act
of 1869, as citizens not having any existing corporation were
authorized to do. Such establishment orreorganization of government having been effected, the plaintiff applied to its officers for the payment of the coupdns held by him; but the
payment was refused, they insisting that they were officers of
a new and distinct corporation from the one which issued the
bonds and coupons mentioned, and that the present corporation was not responsible for them. The plaintiff thereupon
filed the present bill, asking for a decree for the amount of the
coupons, held by him against the city of Pensacola, and that
the city be compelled -to levy a tax upon real and personal
property within its limits sufficient to satisfy such decree and
costs, and for general relief. -Upon demurrer, the bill was
dismissed; and, on appeal, the case is brought here for our
consideration.
The ancient doctrine, that, upon the repeal of a private corporation, its debts were extinguished, and its real property
reverted to its grantors, and its personal property vested in the
State, has been so -far modified by modbrn adjudications, that a
court of equity will now lay hold of the property of a dissolved
corporation, and administer it for the benefit of its creditors
and stockholders. The obligation of contracts, made whilst the
corporation was in existence, survives its dissolution; and the
contracts may be enforced by a court of equity, so far as to

Oct. 1876.]

BROUGHTON V. PENSACOLA.

subject, for their satisfaction, any -property possessed by the
corporation at the time. In the view of equity, its property
constitutes a trust fund pledged to the payment of the debts
of creditors and stockholders; and, if a municipal corporation,
upon the surrender, or extinction in other ways, of its charter,
is possessed of any property, a court of equity will equally take
possession of it for the benefit of the creditors of the corporation. In this case, it is averred in the bill that the city of Pensacola, upon the surrender of its original charter, did not possess
any property.
It is not necessary, however, in the view we take of the
proceedings for the reorganization of the city government, to
consider the effect of an absolute repeal of the charter of a
municipal corporation upon its obligations. It is sufficient that
here, in our judgment, there was a continuation of the corporation of Pensacola, with its original rights of property and obligations, not a new and distinct creation of corporate capacity
and liability.
The constitution of 1868 only designed to secure uniformity
in county, township, and municipal government. It contemplated no change in existing liabilities. The acts of 1868 and
1869, passed to carry into effect the constitutional provision,
aimed solely to secure this uniformity. They do n6t even
allude to previous liabilities. Although a municipal corporation, so-far as it is invested with subordinate legislative powers
for local-purposes, is a mere instrumentality of the State for
the convenient administration of government, yet, when authorized to take stock in a railroad company, and issue its
obligations in payment of the stock, it is to that extent to be
deemed -a private corporation, and its obligations are secured
by all the guaranties which protect the engagements of private
individuals. The inhibition of the- Constitution, which pre.serves against the interference of a State the sacredness of
contracts, applies to the liabilities of municipal corporations
created by its permission ; and although the ropeal or modification of the charter of a corporation of that kind is not within
the inhibition, yet it will not be admitted, where its legislation is susceptible of another construction, that the State has
in this way sanctioned an evasion of or escape from liabilities,

BROUGHTON V. PENSACOLA.

I[Sup.

0t.

the creation of which it authorized. When, therefore, a new
form is given to an old municipal corporation, or such a corporation is reorganized under a-new -charter, taking in its new
organization the place of the old one, embracing substantially
the'same corporators and the same territory, it will be presumed that the legislature intended a continued existence of
the same corporation, although different powers are possessed
under the new charter, and different officers administer its
affairs; and, in the absence of express provision for their payment -otherwise, it will also be presumed in such case that the
legislature intended that the liabilities as well as the rights of
property of the corporation in its old form should accompany
the corporation in its reorganization. That such was the intention of the State of Florida in the present case, we have no
doubt; to -suppose otherwise would be to impute to her an
insensibility to the claims of morality and justice, which nothing in her history warrants.
The principle 'which applies to the State would seem to be
applicable to cases of this kind. Obligations contracted by its
agents continue against the State, whatever changes may take
place in its constitution of government. "The new government," says Wheaton, "succeeds to the fisial rights, and is
bound to fulfil the fiscal obligations, of the former government.
It becomes entitled t6 the public domain.and other property of
the State, and is bound to pay its debts previously contracted."
Inter. Law, 30. So a changb in the charter of a municipal
corporation, in whole or part, by an amendment of its providions, or the substitution of a new charter in place of the old
one, should not be deemed, in the absence of express legislative
declaration otherwise, to affect the identity of the corporation,
or to relieve it from its previois liabilities.
In a case recently decided by the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of FloridaMilner'sAdministrator v. City of Pensacola, 2 Woods, 632, the effect of the
legislation of the State upon the corporate existence of the city
of Pensacola was examined. The court held and sustained its
conclusion in an able and well-considered 'opinion, that the
reorganization of the city, under the act of 1869, was simply
the assumption by the city of the new powers and privileges

Oct. 1876.]

DALTON V. JENNINGS.

which the act conferred, and was not the creation of a new
corporation,- a conclusion which accords with our judgment.
It follows, from the views we have expressed, that the remedy of the plaintiff was not by a suit in equity, but by an
action at law against the present corporation upon the coupons;
and, if judgment be recovered thereon and be not paid, then by
mandamus upon its officers to compel t'hem to raise the requisite funds for its payment in the manner prescribed by its
charter.
Decree affirmed, without prejudice to the plaintiff's right to
proceed at law.
NoTE. - Jones v. Pensacold, appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Florida, was argued at the same time and by the
same counsel ai the preceding case.
MR. Jbatric FiErLD delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is similar in all essential particulars to that of Broughton v.Pensacola;
and, upon the authority of the decision therein rendered, the decree is affirmed,
without prejudice to the plaintiff's right to proceed at law.

DALTON v. JENNINGS.
Letters-patent No. 124,340, issued to John Dalton, March 5, 1872, for "an alleged

new and useful improvement in ladies' hair-nets," are void, because his specification and claim precisely and accurately describe various fabrics which

hrd been made and were in public use for a long time previous to his application.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This was a bill filed for an account, -and for an injunction
restraining the defendant from infringing Dalton's letters
patent. Upon the final hearing of the cause the court below
dismissed the bill, and Dalton appealed here.
Mr. . JVansantvoord for the appellant.
Mr. Arthur v. Briesen for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

On the fifth day of March, 1872, there was issued to the

