Oct. 1876.]

HENDRICK v.

LINDSAY ET AL.

that we hold that the assignee in bankruptcy, under the Bankrupt Act of 1867, as it stood before the revision, had authority
to bring a suit in the State courts, wherever those courts were

invested with appropriate jurisdiction, suited to the nature of
Judgment affirmed.
the case.

HENDRICK v. LINDSAY ET AL.
1. It is now the prevailing rule in this country, that a party may maintain
assumpsit on a promise not under seal made to another for his benefit.

2. In the absence of any evidence whatever to contradict or vary the case made
by the plaintiff, it is not error for the court, when the legal effect of theplaintiff's evidence warrants a verdict for him, to so charge the jury.

ERROR to the Circuit Court. of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
In March, 1871, one Ballantine recovered a judgment' in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern 'District
of Michigan against the Albany Insurance Company, for
$3,425.34 and costs. That company desiring to bring the case
to this court upon writ of error, Hendrick, its vice-president,
on the 8th of March, 1871, wrote to Lindsay, one of the defendants in error, as follows: "A. G. LINDSAY, Esq., Detroit:
"DEAR SIR, - Will You be good enough to sign the needful bail-

bond in the ' Park' case, and oblige
"Yours

truly,

JAMES HENDICK, V. P."

On the 10th of that month, Lindsay replied: "I beg to
say that I will' sign the bail-bond in the 'Park' case, if you
will first furnish me with sufficient security to indemnify me
in case of our defeat; the case may be delayed years at Washington, and many changes may occur in that time."
On the next day Hendrick wrote to Lindsay,' acknowledging the receipt of the letter of the 10th, and saying,
,-Whatever security may be desired in the shape of a personal bond, I will" give it to you." After the receipt of this
letter, the defendants in error executed to Ballantine their

144

[Sup: Ct.

HENDRICK V. LINDSAY ET AL.

joint and several bond, which was accepted, approved, and filed
on the sixteenth day of March, 1871; whereupon the insurance
company sued out a writ of error, by which, and in virtue of
the bond, said judgment was superseded.
On the 15th of March, 1871, Hendrick wrote to Lindsay,
saying as follows "I have just returned from Boston, and learn that you have not
yet advised us of having signed our bail-bond in the 'Park' case.
As it should be-done at once, I hope you will feel that we have, if
nothing more, a feeling of old friendship, that ought to make men
of us in an hour of need."
On the 17th, Lindsay replied,"Upon receipt of your favor of the 11th inst., I signed your
bond in 'Phrk' case without loss of time, and supposed the fact
itself was answer to you in the premises until this A.M. I received
yours of the 15th inst., touching on the same subject, and now ask
your pardon for not stating to you at once, upon the receipt of your
11th inst. favor, that the bond w.1s executed."
On the 20th, Lindsay again wrote as follows

-

"DEAR Si,-Enclosed is bond of indemnity, which please have
executed and returned to me."

The bond was as follows :
"Know all men .by these presents, that we, James Hendrick, as
as surety, of Albany, in the State of New
principal, and,
held and firimly bound unto Archibald G. Lindsay and
York,
James P. Mansfield, of the city of Detroit, county of Wayne, and
State of MNichigan, in the sum of $5,500, lawful money of the
United States of America, to be paid to the said Lindsay and
Mansfield, or.to their certain attorneys, heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns,. to which payment, well and truly to be
made, we jointly.and severally bind ourselves, our heirs, executors,
and administrators, and each and every of them, firmly by these
presents, sealed with our seals, dated the twentieth day of MTareh,
1871.
"The condition of this obligation is such, that, whereas the said
Lindsay and Mansfield have lately, at the request of the said Hendrick; signed two bonds, - one in the sum of $5,00.0, and one in the
sum of $200,- in a case pending in the Circuit .Court oi the United

Oct. 1876.]

HENDRICK v. LINDSAY

ET AL.

States for the Eastern District of Michigan, in which suit James
M. Ballantine was plaintiff, and the Albany City Insurance Company was defendant, said bonds being filed for the purpose and
intent of taking said case to the Supreme Court of the United
States.
"Now, therefore, if the said Hendrick shall save and keep the
said Lindsay and Mansfield fully indemnified and harmless against
all loss, damages, or expenses arising from their giving the said
bonds, then the above obligation to be void; and otherwise, in
force."
No dissent was expressed by Hendrick, nor was the bond
executed by him.
Ballantine's judgment having been affirmed by this court,
Lindsay and Mansfield paid it by their negotiable notes, and
thereupon brought assumpsit against Hendrick for the amount
so paid.
The plaintiffs, after proving the foregoing facts, rested their
case. The defendant announced that he had no evidence to
offer.
The court charged that the plaintiffs were entitled to recover,
and directed the jury to si flnd; to which charge and direction
the defendant excepted.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs; and judgment
having been rendered thereon, the defendant sued out this writ
of error.
Mr. T. Lawson for the plaintiff in error.
The undertaking of a surety is to be strictly construed, and
should not be --:tended to any other subject, person, or period of
time than is expressed in the obligation. Birge on Suretyship,
40; Birkenhead et al. v. George et al., 5 Hill (N. Y.), 634;
Barns et al. v. Barron, 61 N. Y. 39; k iller v. Stewart,
9 Wheat. 703; Ludlow v. Simonds, 2 Caines's Cas. 1; Lord
Arlington v. Merrick, 3 Saund. 400; Grant v. Naylor, 4 Cranch,
224; Bleecker v. Hyde, 3 McLean, 279; Wright v. Bussell,
3 Wils. 530; Westonr et al. v. Barton, 4 Taunt. 726; Strange
et al. v. Lee, 3 East, 484; Chancellor, J'c. of Cambridge v.
Baldwin, 5 M. & W. 580; -Dayv. Davey, 2 Per. & Day. '249;
London Assurance Co. v. Bold, 6 Adol. & Ell. N. s. 514.
In order to entitle the plaintiffs to recover, they were bound
VOL. 131.
10

IHEDRICOK v. LINDSAY ) T AL.

[Sup. Cb.

t6 show paymnent and discharge of the liability or debt. Bonny'
v. Seeley, 2 Wend. 482; Powell v. Smith, 8 Johns. 248.
The giving of one's own note will not, unless it is expressly
so agreed, operate as paymeht or discharge of a prior debt or
obligation. The Kimball, 3 Wall. 37; Downey, Ex'r, v. Ricks,
Bx'rz, 14 How. 240; Drake v. 1iitchell, 3 East, 250; Tobey v.
-Barber, 5 Johns: 68 ; Johnson v. Weed, 9 id. 309 ; Wetherby v.
"Kann, 11 id. 516 ; "an Ostrand v. Beed, 1 Wend. 424.
•Mr. Walter T. Smith for the defendants in error.
-A party occupying the position of a surety who gives his
negotiable note, which is accepted in satisfaction of a debt
or -obligation, can maintain an action against his principal.
IVetherbee -v. Mann, 11 Johns.-518; 1?odman..v. H~edden, 10
Wend. 501; Blwoodv. Deifendorf, 5 Barb. 410; Van Ostrand
v. Reed, 1 Wend. 430.
The promise of the plaintiff in error to indemnify, under the
circumstances, entitled the. defendants in error to maintain
their action. Blwood v. Deifendorf, supra; 1 Story's Eq. Jur.,
sect. 499:
The true construction of the undertaking of the plaintiff in
error to indemnify the sureties is to be found in the intention
of the parties. .Gates v. McKee, 13 N. Y. 232; Nash v. Towne,
5 Wall. 699.
Although Mansfield's name was not mentioned in the letters
to Hendrick, yet if the promises and undertaking of the latter
were intended to inure to the benefit of any person or persons
whom Lindsay might procure to sign the bail-bond, then such
person or persons can, at common law, sue directly and in his
or their own name, in assumpsit. Chitty, Contr. 54-58, and
cases cited.
MR. JUSTIcE DAvis delivered the opinion of the court.

There were no disputed facts in this case for the jury to pass
upon. After the plaintiff had rested their case, the counsel
for the defendant announced that he hadno evidence to'offer;
*and thereupon the court, considering that the legal effect of
the evidence warranted a verdict for the-plaintiffs, told the
jury in an absolute form to find for them. This was correct
practice wliere there was no evidence at, all to contradict or

Oct. 1876.]

HENDRICK v.

LINDSAY ET AL.

vary the case made by the plaintiffs; and the only question for
review here is, whether or not the court mistook the legal
effect of the evidence. Bevans v. United States, 13 Wall. 57;
Valbrun v. Babbitt, 16 id. 577.
It is very clear that the transaction in question constituted
a good contract between some parties. The real inquiry is,
whether the promise and undertaking of Hendrick were intended to inure to the joint benefit of Lindsay and Mansfield,
so as to entitle them to -bring an action. In construing letters
like those on which this suit is based, the language employed
is. one, but not the only, element to be considered in arriving
at the intention of the writers. In determining the sense in
which the words were used, they should be considered in connection with the subject-matter of the correspondence, the situation of the parties, the thing to be done, and the surrounding
circumstances.
There is no absolute proof of the relation sustained by Hendrick to the insurance company, other than that he was its
vice-president; but from the tenor of the letters it is quite
clear that he managed its business in Michigan, and had general authority over it in that State. It is equally clear that
Lindsay was only a local agent of the company at Detroit, with
the usual powers and duties belonging to such an appointment.
Such was the relative position of these persons when it became
necessary to take action on Ballantine's judgment against the
company in the Circuit Court of the United State" at Detroit.
Lindsay had no concern with it. The officers of the corporation in Albany were to determine whether to let the judgment
remain in force, or to sue out a writ of error from this court.
To stay the execution required a bond of considerable amount.
It was not necessary that the company should sign it, but it
was absolutely essential that the offered security should be
satisfactory to the judge whose duty it was to approve the
bond. In this state of the case Hendrick wrote to Lindsay,
"Will you be good enough to sign the needful bail-bond?"
This request, construed literally, would limit the application
to Lindsay alone. But this is a narrow constructionI and
evidently 'the words could not in this sense have been used
by Hendrick or adopted by Lindsay. The request. was coex-

HE14DRICK V. LINDSAY

-

h-T AL.

[Sup. Ct.

tensive with the object to be attained, - that of superseding
the judgment an'd securing a hearing in'a higher court; and
Hendrick'asked Lindsay to see that. whatever was required-for
this purpose should be doie. To suppose any thing else is to
suppose, that, wishing a certain thing effected, he restricted his
agent'in the use of the necessary-means to accomplish it; for
it might turn- out that the judge would require two' securities
instead of one, or that Lindsay would not be accepted at all.
Besides, it was immaterial to Hendrick whether the bond was
signed by one or more per'sons, as he promised to give indemnity in the shape of a personal bond. It is tre that this promise, in terms- was to Lindsay; but there is no reason why it,
any more than the request, should be limited. If the request
applied, as we- think- it did, to the procurement of a sufficient
bond, the promise has o-like extent. That Lindsay and Mansfield (to whom the correspondence was communicated) understood them to have this effect, is clear enough, from their
sigi. ing the bond and staing the collection of- the judgment.
It is also equally clear, from the same fact,'that Lindsay
rdquested Mansfield to become one of the sureties, and that
they both executed the bond, ielying upon the undertaking of
Hendrick t6 furnish the.promised indemnity.
I This was not done, although prompt application
Was made
to him by letter from Lindsay, enclosing a draft of the indemnity bond: He neither signed nor returned it, nor did he afterwards -correspond with any one on the subject. The draft
recites that the supersedeas"bond NVvas exeduted b Lindsay and
Mansfield, at the request of Hendrick. He was, therefore,
informed of *theinterpretation which they put upon his request
and promise; and, if it was wrong, he would at least, as an
excuse for doing nothing, have availed Mimself of .the occasion
to repudiate the whole proceeding. As he did not do this, but
retained, without objection, the- draft, he -in effect adopted
that interpretation.
It is argued -that Hendrick had no personal interest in the
matter, and that, therefore, there was no consideration for his
promise. But damage to the promisee constitutes as good a
consideration as. benefit to the promisor. -In Pillan v." Van
Mierop, 3 Burr. 1663, the court say, "Any damage br suspension

Oct. 1876.].

HENDRICK V.

LINDSAY ET AL.

of a right, or possibility of a loss occasioned to the plaintiff
by the promise of another, is a sufficient consideration for such
promise, and will make it binding, although no, actual benefit
This rule is sustained, by a
accrues to the party promising."
long series of adjudged cases.
It is also argued, as Mansfield's name does not appear in the
letters of Hendrick, that he could not join in this action. This
would be true, if the promise were under seal, requiring an
action of debt or covenant; but the right- of a party to maintain assumpsit on a promise not under seal, made to another
for his benefit, although much controverted, is now the prevailing rule in this country. 1 Pars. Contr. (6th ed.) 467,
and cases cited. If Hendrick engaged with Lindsay to indemnify the sureties furnished by him, and on the faith of this
promise Lindsay and Mansfield executed the supersedeas bond,
as we hold was the case here, then, if they suffered loss by reason of the breach of this contract, they are entitled to maintain
this suit. That they did suffer loss, to the extent of Ballantine's judgment against the company, which was affirmed in
this court, is the legal effect of the evidence of the only witness
on the point. He states directly that he and his co-plaintiff
paid on the bond to Ballautine a certain amount .of money,
meaning, evidently, on the judgment to secure which the bond
was given. It is true he says, " We did not pay cash," "we
paid it in our notes; " but negotiable, promissory notes are
equivalent to the payment of money, if received by ihe creditor
in satisfaction of the judgment, though such satisfaction be not
entered on the record. The witness, through all his testimony,
speaks of what he did as payment.; and the true inference
from the whole of it is, that Ballantine treated these notes as
so much money paid him. There was no reason why he should
not; for the bond was his only reliance, and the enforced collection of it would have occasioned expense -and required time.
It was far better for him, if the obligors were good (and this is
the presumption), but 'unable to pay at once, to takz_ time-notes
in liquidation of the demand, than- to bring suit on the bond.
Besides, this-is not an unusual way of closing up such a transaction, whiere the circumstances surrounding -it appeal -so strongly to the indulgence of. th creditor.

O'HARA ET AL. V. MACCONNELL ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

On the whole, we are of the opinion that the court below
did not mistake the legal effect of the uncontradicted testimony
in the case, and that there was no error in instructing the jury
to find for the. plaintiffs.
Judgment affirmed.

O'HA±R

ET AL. v. MACCON ELL ET AL., ASSIGNEES.

1. A decree in chancery will be reversed if rendered against a woman who is
shown by the bill to be both a minor and feme covert, where no appearance
by or for hdr has been entered, and nt guardian ad litenz appointed.
2. It is error to render a final decree for want of appearance at the first term
after service of subpoena (Equity Rules, 18, 19), unless another rule-day has
intervened.
8. Where the -object is to divest a feme covert or minor 'of an interest in real
estate, the title of which is in a trustee for her use, the trust being an
active one, it is error to decree against her without making the trustee a
party to the suit.
4. The making of the conveyance, as ordered by the decree, does not deprive the
defendant of the right of appeal.
b. Neither a subsequent petition in the nature of a bill of review, nor any thing
set up in the answer to such petition. on whiclhno action was had by the
court, c n prevent a party from appealing from the original decree.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. J. T. Kirk"-for
the appellants. No counsel appeared for the appellees.
MR. JUsTIcE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Michael O'Hara was adjudged a bankrupt Dec. 9, 1867, and
the appellees duly appointed assignees, to whom an assignment
of his effects was made in due form. As such assignees, they
filed in the Circuit Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania the bill in chancery on which the decree was rendered
from which the present- appeal is'takei. The bill alleges that
a conveyance of certain real estate made by said O'Hara and
his wife, Frances, on the tenth day of July, 1866, to William
Harrison and G. L. B. Fetterman, in trust for the use of the
wife, was a fraud upon creditors, and prays that the deed be

