Oct. 1876.]

THE "JUNIA- - TA."

ratification -or election. Be this as it may, the general ground
of the application of the principle of equitable estoppel is as we
have stated.
It is also essential for its application with respect to the
title of real property that the party claiming to have been
influenced by the conduct or declarations of another to his
injury was himself not only destitute of knowledge of the
true state of the title, but also of any convenient and available means of acquiring such knowledge. Where the condition of the title is known to both parties, or both have the
same means of ascertaining the truth, there can be no estoppel. Crest v. Jack, 3 Watts, 240; _Knouff v. Thompson, 4 Harris, 361.
Tested by these views, the defence of estoppel set up in this
case entirely fails.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this
opinion; and it is so
Ordered.
MR. JUSTICE SwAYEit and MR. JUSTICE DAvis dissented.

THE " JUNIATA."
1. The doctrine announced in The Atlas, supra, p. 302, that where an innocent
party suffers damages by a collision resulting from the mutual fault of two
vissels, only one of which is libelled, the decree should be against such
vessel for the whole amount of the damages, and not for a moiety thereof,
reaffirmed, and applied to this case.
2. This court will not, in a case of collision, reverse the concurrent decrees of the
courts below, upon a mere difference of opinion as to the weight and effect
of conflicting testimony. To warrant a reversal, it must be clear that the
lower courts have committed an error, and that a wrong has been done to
the appellant.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Louisiana.
Argued by Hr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith and Mr.
Thomas 37 Durant for the libellants, and by Mr. Morton P.
Hfenry for the claimants.
VOL. ii.

22

THE "JUNIATA."[

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JUSTICE SWAYwE delivered the opinion of the court.

These are cross-appeals in admiralty from the decree of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana.
Separate libels were filed in he District Court by Pursglove, and
by the United States, against the mail-steamer" Juniata." The
libel of Pursglove alleged a collision between his steam-tug
"1Neafie" and the "Juniata," upon the Mississippi River, below New Orleans; that the steamer was wholly in fault; that
the tug was damaged; and that he himself sustained severe and
lasting bodily lInjuries. The libel of the United States alleged
the same collision, without fault upon the part of the ",
Neafie ;"
and, further; that at the time of the collision the "qNeafie "was
towing a flat-boat containing a cargo of five hundred barrels of
cement, both belonging to the United States, and that, without fault on the part of the flat-boat, it also collided with
the steamship, and that both boat and cargo were sunk and
wholly lost. Both libels sought to recover damages. The
District Court held that both the steamship and the tug were
in fault, and that the damages should be divided; and the~eupon it was decreed that the steamship should pay the sum of
$10,000 to Pursglove, and $1,263.75 to the United States, for
half the damages found to have been sustained by those parties
respectively.
The cases were removed to the Circuit Court by appeal. That
court affirmed the decree of the District Court. All the parties
thereupon appealed to this court. There is no question of lav
involved in the controversy which has not already been so settled by this court that it is no longer open to doubt or debate.
The contest turns wholly upon the facts. The counsel for the
"Juniata" say in their brief: "The conflict of testimony in
these cases is, we believe, without a parallel. Certainly, in our
long practice, we have never met with a case presenting so great
a conflict in the testimony." These remarkg are well warranted
by the record. There is no single fact alleged by either party
injuriously affecting the other in relation to which the antagonisms in the evidence are not as direct and absolute as is possible. As usual, the -witnesseson each side vindicate their own
vessel, and throw the entire fault upon the other vessel. Even
the place of the collision- whether on the east or west side of

Oct. 1876.]

THE " JUNIATA."

the river - is wrapped in the darkness arising from this conflict.
It is impossible to harmonize these discrepancies, and well-nigh
impossible to say where, upon any given point, the greater
weight of testimony lies. We are without the means of applying intelligently the aphorism of the Roman lawyers, that
"witnesses are to be weighed, and not counted." Analysis and
argument, however searching, are of little avail. But, amid
this conflict and confusion of the testimony, we think we can
see our way to the conclusion that both vessels were in fault.
The findings of the court below are also persuasive to this
result. Upon the subject of such concurrent decisions, this
court, in The Grace Girdler, 7 Wall. 204, said, "The District
Court acquitted the schooner and dismissed the libel. The
libellants appealed to the Circuit Court. The court affirmed the
decree. The case is now here by a second appeal. This court
ought not to reverse upon a mere difference of opinion as to
the weight and effect of conflicting testimony. To warrant a
reversal, it must be elkar that the lower courts have committed
an error, and that a wrong has been done to the appellants."
This is not a case of that character. Walsh v. Rogers,
13 How. 284; The Marcellus, 1 Black, 414; The Water IMitch,
id. 494; The Grafton, 1 Blatch. 173; The Narragansett,id. 211 ;
Cushnan v. 1?yan, 1 Story, 95; Bearse v. Pigs, fc., id. 322;
Tracy v. Sacket, I Ohio St. 54.
As the case is presented, the principle thus announced may
well be permitted to control the result as between the tug and
the steamship.
We cannot say, as to either of them, that the courts below
clearly committed an error, and that a wrong has been done.
Such a proposition, to say the least, is not sustained by a preponderahce of evidence. Upon this ground mainly we rest our
judgment.
It could serve no useful purpose in this or any other case to
enter upon an extended examination of the subject, and we forbear to do so.
The fact of fault on both sides being established, an apportionment of the damages necessarily followed. The amount
awarded to Pursglove, in this view of the case, is assailed as
being excessively large. We do not so regard it. He was

THE " JUNIATA."

[Sup. Ct.

struck down in the noon of life and made a paralytic, with little or no hope, according to the medical testimony, of amendment in the future. For such an injury the amount decreed
was certainly none too large.
The branch of Jhe case relative to the United States is upon
a different footing. Their flat-boat is neither alleged nor
proved to have been in any. wise in fault. The principle of
apportionment has, therefore, no application to them. Their
boat not being inculpated, they are entitled to full damages.
The decree of the Circuit Court is erroneous in not giving it to
them.
We should adjudge that half the amount should be paid by
the tug, and the other half by the steamer, but that the libel
of the United States is against the steamer alone. The tug,
therefore, cannot be reached in this proceeding. But the offence being a marine tort, and both being guilty, they are liable
severally, as well as jointly, for the entire amount of the damages. The Atlas, supra,p. 302. The decree must, therefore, be
changed, so as to require full payment to be made to the United
States by the claimants of the "Juniata."
Whatever their
rights may be as against Pursglovo, by reason of such payment
of more than one-half, must be settled in another proceeding.
It cannot be done in this litigation.
The case will be remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions to modify the decree in the particular mentioned,
in conformity to the opinion of this court, and, when thus
modified, to proceed to execute it. In all other respects the
decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed. The costs will be
equally divided between Pursglove and, the claimants of the
steamer.

