Oct. 1876.]

MORGAN V. LOUISIANA.

MORGAN v. LouIsIANA.
1. Upon a sale of the property and franchises of a railroad corporation under a
decree founded upon a mortgage which in terms covers the franchises, or
under a process upon a money judgment against the company, immunity
from -taxation upon the property of the company provided in the act of
incorporation does not accompany the property in its transfer to the purchaser. The immunity from taxation in such cases is a personal privilege
of the company, and not transferable.
2. The franchises of a railroad corporation are rights or privileges which are
essential to the operations of the corporation, and without which its roads
and works would be of little value ; such as the franchise to run cars, to
take tolls, to appropriate earth and gravel for the bed of its road, or water
for its engines, and the like. Immunity from taxation is not itself a franchise of a railroad corporation which passes as such without other descrip.
tion to a purchaser of its property.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
This was an action by the State of Louisiana against Morgan,
to recover certain taxes.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The judgment below was in favor of the plaintiff. The
defendant thereupon sued out this writ of error.
Submitted on printed arguments by iJfr. Henry J. Leovy for
the plaintiff in error.
1. The legislature of Louisiana had power to exempt the
property from taxation; and the grant made in this case w is a
contract which was inviolable. New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch,
164; Jefferson Bank v. Shelly, 1 Black, 536; Home of the
Friendless v. Rouse, 8 Wall. 430.; Wilmington Railroad v.
Reid, 13 id. 264, 269; Humphrey v. Pegues, 16 id. 244; 18 id.
392; 20 id. 36; 21 id. 492 ; Lacey's Dig. Railway Decisions,
p. 853 ; 31 Ill. 484 ; 17 id. 291.
2. Exemption from taxation is a franchise that maybe mortgaged and sold, especially in Louisiana. La. Stat. 1853, 1854,
1856; Civil Code, arts. 2449, 3183; New Jersey' v, Wilson,
7 Cranch, 165 ; Jefferson Bank v. Shelly, 1 Black, 536 ; Home
of the Friendless v. Rouse, 8 Wall. 430; Trask v. 11iaquire,
18 id. 392; Pacific Railroad v. llaguire, 20 id. 36 ; Humphrey
v. Pegues, 16 id. 244; 13 id. 269; Wilmington Railroad v.
Reid, 13 id. 264; Bardstown & Louisville R. R. Co. v. Metcalfe, 4 Ky. (iet.) 199; Allen v. Mont. R. R. Co., 11 Ala. 437;

MORGAN V. LOUISIANA.

[Sup. Ct.

Pollard v. Maddox, 28 id. 321; 30 Vt. 182; 70 Penn. 355;
St. Paul Co. v. Parker,14 Mvlinn. 297; Lacey's Dig. Railway
Decisions, 753; Union Bank Case, 6 Humph. 515; -Enfield v.
Hart, 17 Conn. 40.
Plaintiff in error is the owner by purchase at public sale of
all the property formerly owned by the railroad company, including all its franchises; and his title to the same has in no
manner been forfeited.
3. The exemption from taxation of the capital stock of the
company is without limitation; but that part invested in
works, fixtures, workshops, &c., is exempt till ten years after
completion of the road, &c. Sect. 2, Act 1853. It is admitted that the capital stock is exempt for ever. The "capital stock" is the capital of the company, whether repnaining in
money or invested in the necessary real estate, rails, and track,
in grading, and in laying rails. Trask v. i'faguire, 18 Wall.
391 ; - Wilmington Railroad v. Reid, 13 id. 264; Pacific Railroad v. Mtaguire, 20 id. 42.
The tax claimed in this case is for $400,000, real estate (part
of the road), $300,000, capital, and $19,000, ferry-boats; in all,
$719,000. All this is clearly part of the capital stock exempted
from taxation.
Mr. J. Q. A. Fellows for the defendant in error.
As the first grand division of eighty miles of road, purchased
by the plaintiff in error at the marshal's sale in May, 1869,
had been completed for more than ten years prior to that time,
it was not exempt from taxation, and his purchase of the
remaining property of the railroad company at the sheriff's sale
in March, 1870, did not, and could not, include the franchises
of the company.
Only by virtue of an express authorization of the legislature
can the franchises of a corporation be divested. This was not
the case at the sheriff's sale, made in the execution of an ordinary judgment on an ordinary debt against the railroad coinpany. 1 Redf. Railw. c. 7, p. 117 (ed. 1873) ; 2 id. c. 7, pp. 484,
501 (ed. 1873) ; Lacey's Dig. Railway Decisions, p. 292, Nos. 4,
7, 21, 25; Plymouth Bailroad v. Colwell, 39 Penn. St. 337;
State v. Rives, 5 Ired. 297 ; Benedict v. Heineberg, 43 Vt. 231;
State v. flfexican Gulf Railroad Co., 3 Rob. (La.) 513.

Oct. 1876.]

MORGAN v. LoUISIANA.

The plaintiff in error could buy at the sheriff's sale only the
tangible property of the railroad company, and not any of its
franchises. He therefore did not acquire the right of exemption from taxation of the property purchased previously at the
marshal's sale; even if- such exemption be a franchise, and not
a strictly personal right pr immunity, which is neither transferable by the railroad company, nor subject to seizure and sale
under execution.
The plaintiff in error can therefore claim only by virtue of
his purchase at the marshal's sale, under the laws as they
existed at the time of his purchase.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action by the State of Louisiana to recover of the
defendant taxes levied upon his property for the years 1870
and 1871. The defendant contends that the property was
exempt from taxation in his hands, because it was thus exempt
whilst held by the New Orleans, Opelousas, and Great Western Railroad Company, from whom it was acquired in part by
purchase at a mortgage sale, and in part by purchase at a sheriff's sale upon a money judgment. The facts upon which the
defendant relies are substantially these: By an act passed in
April, 1858, the legislature of Louisiana incorporated the New
Orleans, Opelousas, and Great Western Raihoad Company, for
the purpose of constructing, working, and maintaining a railroad from Algiers, opposite New Orleans, westward to Berwick's Bay, and thence to Washington, in the parish of St.
Landry, to be afterwards extended to a point on the Sabine
River most favorable for the purpose of continuing the road
through the State of Texas to El Paso on the Rio Grande.
The act provided that the capital stock" of the company
should be exempt from taxation, and that the works, fixtures,
workshops, warehouses, vehicles of transportation, and other
appurtenances of the company, should be exempt from taxation
for ten years after the completion of the road within the limits
of the State; and that the president, engineers, clerks, agents,
and servants of the company, should be exenpt from'jury
duty, and from military duty, except in case of invasion or
insurrection.

MIORGAN v. LOUISIANA.

[Sup. Ct.

The company was authorized to borrow, from timr to time,
such sums as might be required for the c6nstruction of the road
above the amount -received from subscriptions to its capital
stock, not exceeding 86,000,000, and to secure the loans by
mortgaging its property in whole or. in part, as might be
deemed expedient. Subsequently, in 1856, the legislature
passed a general law extending the powers of railroad companies, and providing that, in addition to those already conferred,
any railroad company established under the laws of the State
might borrow, from time to time, such sums of money as might
be required for the construction or repairs of any railroad, and for
that purpose might issue bonds or obligations secured by mortgage on the property and franchises of the company, and payableat such times and places as its president and directors might
designate.
In 1857 the road of the company was completed as far as
Berwick's Bay, a distance of eighty miles from New Orleans;
and, to obtain funds to continue its construction beyond that
point, the directors, in March, 1859, authorized the president
to issue two thousand bonds of the company, in sums of $1000
each, and to secure their payment and interest by a first mortgage on the portion of the road completed, together with the
land over which the road was constructed, the equipments,
appurtenances, rights, and franchises of the, company applicable to that portion. Under this. authority the bonds were
issued and the mortgage executed in April, 1859. With the
funds raised by this means work on the road was resumed, and
its grading was nearly completed to Opelousas, a distance of
eighty miles beyond Berwick's Bay, when, in 1862, the work
was discontinued, the road having been seized by the military
forces of the United States, by whom it was held until February, 1866, when it was restored to the company. Since its restoration no further work has been done, and the construction
of the portion of the road beyond Opelousas to the Sabine
River has never been commenced.
The defendant was the owner of several hundred of the mortgage bonds.issued; and their coupons not being paid, proceedings were, in 1869, instituted by him in the Circuit Court of the
United Statesjfor the sale of the mortgaged property, which

Oct. 1876.]

6MORGAN v.

LOUISIANA.

resulted in the issue of executory process to the marshal of the
district. At the sale made by that officer, the defendant became the purchaser of the completed division of the road, and
the equipments and franchises appertaining to that divisi6n,
with its cars, locomotives, machinery, utensils, and effects
generally3.
The proceeds received not covering the entire
indebtedness of the company, suits were instituted by several
bondholders in the State courts for the amount due them, and
judgments were recovered, under which the balance of the
pi operty of the company, including the franchises appertaining
thereto, were solid by the sheriff of New Orleans, and were
.purchased by the defendant.
The mortgage of the company in terms covered its franchises, so far as they appertained to the completed portion or
division of the road, from Algiers to Berwick's Bay; the sale
of the marshal upon the executory process followed the terms
of the mortgage in the description of the property sold; and
the sheriff, upon the judgments of the State court, undertook to
sell and convey with other property the franchises of the company appertaining to the road beyond- Berwick's Bay to the
Sabine River. The question presented is, whether, under the
designation of franchises, the immunity from taxation upon its
property possessed by the railroad company accompanied tht
property in its transfer to the defendant, or whether that
immunity was a mere personal privilege of the company, and,
tl'erefore, not transferable to others. The Supreme Court of
the. State took the latter view, and held that the exemption did
not attach to the property of the corporation so as to follow it
into the hands of third parties. In this view we agree with
the State court. The greater part of the property outside of
the capital stock was liable to constant waste; deterioration, and
destruction, and, according to the ordinary course of business,
would be disposed of by the company as new works were
required. It can hardly be supposed that the legislature intended that the exemption should follow the fixtures and vehi
cles of the company after they had passed out of its control, so
that, wherever found, the power of taxation could not touch
them; or, that workshops and warehouses ceasing to be the
property of the company should carry to its subsequent posses-

M1ORGAN v. LOUISIANA.

[Sup. Ct.

sors a privilege intended only for the benefit of the corporation.
The language of the statute requires no such construction, and
intendments will not be indulged to enlarge the operation of a
clause restraining the exercise of a sovereign attribute of a
State. As has been often said by this court, the whole community is interested in retaining the power of taxation undiminished, and has a right to insist that its abandonment shall
not be presumed in any case where the deliberate purpose of
the State to abandon it does not appear. -ProvidenceBank v.
Billings, 4 Pet. 561; The Delaware -RailroadTax, 18 Wall. 206.
Here no such purpose appears. Here it is the capital stock of
the company, and its works, fixtures, workshops, warehouses,
vehicles of transportation and appurtenances, which the statute
declares shall be exempt; evidently m*eaning that it is to the
property of the company, so long as it remains such, that the
exemption shall apply. This view is strengthened by the provision exempting the president, engineers, clerks, agents, and
servants of the company from jury and military duty. No one
would pretend that such exemption attended the individuals
after they had ceased to be officers and servants of the company. The exemption of the property of the company from
taxation, and the exemption of its officers and servants from jury
and military duty, were both intended for the benefit of the company, and its benefit alone. In their personal character they are
analogous to the exemptions from execution of certain property
of debtors, made by laws of several of the States. Thus, in
some States, a limited quantity of household and kitchen furniture, the tools of a mechanic, the tent and pick of a miner,
the farming utensils of a husbandman, the instruments of a
surgeon and dentist, and the law library of an attorney and
counsellor, - are exempt from execution. In these and similar
cases it has never been pretended that the exemption attached
to the property continued when the ownership of the debtor
ceased. The condition of the exemption in terms makes the
exemptiun applicable to the property only so long as that
belongs to the debtor. A similar condition attached by its
terms to the exemption from taxation of the property of the
railroad -ompany here, and a like result must be deemed to
have followed its change of ownership. In our judgment, the

Oct. 1876.]

MORGAN v.

LOUISIANA.

exemption ceased when the property of the company passed
to the defendant.
Much confusion of thought has arisen in this case and in
similar cases from attaching a vague and undefined meaning
to the term "franchises."
It is often used as synonymous with
rights, privileges, and immunities, though of a personal and
temporary character; so that, if any one of these exists, it is
loosely termed a " franchise," and is supposed to pass upon a
transfer of the franchises of the company. But the term must
always be considered in connection with the corporation or
property to which it is alleged to appertain. The franchises
of a railroad corporation are rights or privileges which are
essential to the operations of the corporation, and without
which its road and works would be of little value; such as the
franchise to run cars, to take tolls, to appropriate earth and
gravel for the bed of its road, or water for its engines, and the
like. They are positive rights or privileges, without the possession of which the road of the company could not be successfully
worked. Immunity from taxation is not one of them. The
former may be conveyed to a purchaser of the road as part of
the property of the company ; the latter is personal, and incapable of transfer without express statutory direction.
The cases cited by counsel are not in conflict with this view.
In lNew Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164, the land purchased by
the State from the Indians was by the statute exempted ,rom
subsequent taxation without reference to its ownership. The
privilege, said the court, though for the benefit of the Indians,
was annexed by the terms which created it to tlfe land itself,
and not to the persons. In the case of Home of the -Friendless v. Rouse, 8 Wall. 430, a statute of Missouri incorporating
a charitable institution exempted its property from taxation;
and the court held that the charter was a contract between the
State and the corporators, that the property given for charitable uses specified in it should, so long as it was applied to
those uses, be exempted from taxation. This decision accords
with the view we have taken in this case of the operation of
the exemption -clause. The case of Wilmington Railroad v.
Reid, 13 Wall. 264, only asserts the doctrine that it is competent for the legislature to exempt property from taxation,

MORGAN v. LOISIANA.

[Sup. Ct.

and that the exemption, when made in a charter of a corporation, constitutes a contract, the question there being whether
subsequent legislatioh impaired the obligation of such contract.
In Trask v. 2faguire,18 Wall. 391, the act of Missouri, under
which a sale of the St. Louis.and Iron Mountain Railroad was
made by commissioners of the State, provided that the purchasers should have all the rights, franchises, pyivileges, and
immunities enjoyed by the defaulting company. The new
company was, therefore, necessarily held to have acquired the
immunity from taxation which the original company had possessed, if it were competent for the legislature at the time
under the new constitution, to confer this privilege. It was
decided, however, that the legislature was prohibited by the
constitution from conferring the privilege, and that the law,
passed under the ordinance adopted with the new constitution,
providing for a sale of the franchises of a defaulting railroad
company with its 'road, did not require immunity from taxation
to be embraced within them; the language being construed to
refer to such franchises as were essential to the operation of the
road sold, and without which the ownership of the road would
be comparatively valueless, - a view which accords with what
we have said in this case.
Immunity of particular property from" taxation is a privilege
which may sometimes be transferred under that designation, as
1held in Humphrey v. .Pegues, 16 Wall. 244. All that we now
decide is, that such immunity is not itself a franchise of a railroad corporation which passes as such without other description
to a purchaser of its property.
The views we have expressed render it unnecessary to consider whether the neglect for years of the company to prosecute
its work, accompanied by the fact that it has become insolvent,
and all its property has been disposed of at forced sales, does
not warrant the conclusion that any further attempt to complete the road to the Sabine River has been abandoned.
Judgment affirmed.

