442

LAKE SUPERIOR & MISS. R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

-effect, that it must be through a newspaper, -and
excluded
other evidence tending to show a public and notorious disavowal,
In this we think he erred.
He refused to admit evidence which would have sustained
the fifth request to charge, that, if the notice was so generally
communicated to the business men of Eau Claire as to be likely
to come to the claimants' knowledge, the jury are at liberty to
find such knowledge. In this we think he erred.
Without prescribing the precise rule which should have been
laid down, we are of the opinion that the errors in the rulings
-were of so grave a character that a new trial must be ordered.
New trial ordered.

LAKE SUPgRIOR AND MISSISSIPPI RAILROAD COMPANY V.
UNITED STATES.
ATCHISoN, TOPEKA, AND SANTA Fik RAILROAD CobrAPAxy

v. UNITED STATES.
1. A provision in an act of Congress, granting lands to aid in the construction
of a railroad, that "said railroad shall be, and remain, a public highway
for the use of the government of the United States, free from all toll or
other charge, for the transportation of any property or troops of the
United States," secures to the government the free use of the road, but
does not entitle the government to have troops or property transported
over the road by the railroad company free of charge for transporting the
same.
2. Where, throughout an act of Congress, a railroad is referred to, in its character as a road, as a permanent structure, and designated, and required to be,
a public highway, the term "railroad" cannot, without doing violence to
language, and disregarding the long-established usage of legislative expression, be extended to embrace the rolling-stock or other personal property of
the company.

APPFALS from the Court of Claims.
The first case was argued by Mr. Walter H. Smith for the
appellant, and by Mr.Solicitor-GeneralPhillipsfor the appellee.
The second case was argued by Mr. Thomas H. Talbot and
Mr. B. B. Hoarfor the appellant, and by Mr. Solicitor-General
Phillips for the appellee.

Oct. 1876.]

LAxE SUPEmOR & Miss. R.R. Co. v. U. S.

443

delivered the opinion of the court.
Congress, in most of the legislative acts by which it. has
made donations of the public lands to the States in which they
lie for the purpose of aiding in the construction of railroads,
has stipulated that the railroads so aided shall be public highways for the use of" the government, free from all tolls or other
charge for transportation of its property or troops. The question has arisen between the railroad companies owning these
roads and the officers of the government, whether this reservation includes the free use of the roads alone, or transportation
also. The companies claim, that, if they give to the government
'the free use of their roads, it is all that is required of them.
The government claims that it is entitled to have free transportation on the roads, and that it is the duty of the companies to
perform it; and Congress has xefused compensation for such
transportation, giving the companies, however, the right to
appeal to the Court of Claims. That court having been applied
to, and having decided adversely to the companies, they have
appealed to this court, and the cases are now before us for
consideration.
The manner in which the question arises is stated with
sufficient accuracy by the counsel of one of the appellant
companies, ag follows :
"Was the plaintiff, by reason of being a land-grant railroad,
bound to transport the troops and property of the United States
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

free of charge, or had she a right to a reasonable compensation for
such services.. - .
"The act of May 5, 1864 (13 Stat. 64), made a grant of land, in
the usual form, to the State of Minnesota , to aid in the constru:ion
of plaintiff's road. That act contained the following provisions:
' And the said railroad shall be, and remain, a public highway for
the use of the government of the United States, free from all toll
or other charge for [upon] the transportation of any property or
troops of the United States. Sect. 5, p. 65. The seventh section
provides; "'That the United States mail shall be transported over said
road, under the direction of the Post-Office Department, at such price
as Congress may, by law, direct: Provided,that, until such price is
fixed by law, the Postmaster-Oeneral shall have the power to determine the same.'

1 444

LAKE. SUPERIOR & MIss. R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

"By the act of Congress of June 16, 1874 (18 Stat. 74), making
appropriations for the army for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1875,
it was provided, ' That no part of the money appropriated by this
act shall be paid to any railroad company for the transportation
of any property, or troops of the United States over any railroad
which, in whole or in part, was constructed by the aid of a grant
of public land, on the condition that such railroad should be a public
highway for the use of the government of the United States, free
from toll or other charge, or upon any other conditions for the use
of such road for such transportation; nor shall any allowance be
made out of any money appropriated by this act for the transportation of officers of the army over any such road when on duty, and
under orders, as a military officer of the United States. But nothing herein contained shall be construed as preventing any such railroad from bringing a suit in the Court of Claims for the charges
for such transportation, and recovering the same, if found entitled
thereto by virtue of the laws in force prior to the passage of this
act.'
"The case turns upon the construction that should be given to
the clause in the act of 1864, which declares that ' the said railroad
shall be, and remain, a public highway for the use of the government of the United States, free from all toll or other charge for
[upon] the transportation of any property or troops of the United
'States.'"
And the counsel for .the appellants analyzes this provision as
follows:

-

"This is a legislative declaration of three things: 1. That the
railroadshall be a public highway. 2. That the United States
shall have the right to use the same for the transportation of its
troops and property. 3.That the United States, in the transportation of its troops and property over such railroad as a public highway, shall not be required to pay toll or other charge."

-

It is somewhat singular that a provision apparently so simple
in its terms should give rise to such a wide difference of opinion as to its true construdtion. The difficulty arises from the
peculiar character of a railway as a means of public travel and
transportation. The case of a turnpike or a canal would have
furnished no -difficulty whatever. Those thoroughfares are
usually constructed and owned by, companies who have nothing to do with transportation thereon. . They. merely furnish

Oct. 1876.]

LAKE SUPERIOR & MIss. R.R. Co. v. U. S.

445

the thoroughfare. Had the provision in question related to public works of this kind, it would have been clear that the right
reserved tQ the government would have been merely the right
to use the works themselves (the turnpike or the canal) free
from toll. The words "free from all toll or other charge for
the transportation of property or troops " would have referred,
by necessary implication, to transportation performed by the
government itself, either in its own carriages or vessels, or in
carriages or vessels procured and employed at its expense. No
one would imagine for a moment that the turnpike or canal
company would be bound to furnish the means of transportation,
much less the propelling power and labor for performing it.
Indeed, Congress has, in several instances, commencing as,
far back as 1824, made donations of right of way, or grants of
land, for canals and turnpikes,.and has made almost the exact
reservation contained in the railroad grants. The first was
that made May 26, 1824, authorizing the State of Indiana to
connect the Wabash River with the Miami of Lake Erie; and
the reservation was in these words: "And provided further,
that the said canal when completed shall be and for ever remain
a public highway for the use of the government of the United
States, free from any toll or charge whatever, for any property
of the United States, or persons in their service in public business, passing through the same." 4 Stat. 47.
On the 2d of March, 1827, an act, with precisely the same
reservation, was passed, making a grant of land to the State of
Illinois, to aid in opening a canal to unite the waters of the
Illinois River with those of Lake Michigan. 4 Stat. 234. On
the 2d of March, 1833, an amendment to this act was passed,
which declared " that the lands granted to the State of Illinois,
by the act to which this is an amendment, may be used dnd
disposed of by said State for the purpose of making a railroad,
instead of a canal, as in said act contemplated; . . . Provided,

that if a railroad is made in place of a canal, the State of Illinois shall be subject to the same duties and obligtions,'and
the government of the United States shall be entitled to and
have the same privileges on said railroad, which they would
have had through the canal if it had been opened." Evidently
the only thing reserved in this case was the use of the road.

446

LAKE SUPERIOR & Miss. R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

It will be observed that the last-cited act was passed in 18383,
when railrcads were about being introduced as means of pub .
lie communication in this country. It is undoubtedly familiar
to most of those whose recollection goes back to that period,
that railroads were generally expected to be public highways,
on which every man who could procure the proper carriages
and apparatus would have the right to travel. This was the
understanding in England, where they originated. The Railway
Clauses Consolidation Act, passed in 1842, provided in detail
for the use of railways by all persons who might choose to put
carriages thereon, upon payment of the tolls demandable, subject to the provisions of the statute and the regulations of the
company. Acts of 5 & 6 Vict. c.'55. And suits were sustained
to compel raiRmsy companies to keep up their toad for the use
of the public. King v. Severn B. Co., 2 B. & A. 646, Queen
v. Grand Junction, 4 Q. B. 18; 2 Redf. sect. 249 ;. Pierce's
American Railway Law, 519: Most pf the early railroad charters -granted in this country were framed upon the same idea.
Thus the charter of the Mohawk and Hudson Railroad Company, granted by the legislature of New York in 1826 (which
was one of the earliest), after giving the company power to
construct the road, provided as follows "And shall have power to regulate the time and manner in which
goods and passengers shall be transported, taken, and carried on
the same, as well as the manner in which they shall collect tolls
and dues on account of transportation and carriage, and shall have
power to erect and maintain toll-houses and other buildings for the
accommodation of their concerns." Laws of 1826, p. 289.
In subsequent charters, granted in 1828 and succeeding years,
the intent is still more plainly expressed. Thus, in the charter of the Ithaca and Owego Railroad Company, it is provided:-"Sect. 9. The said corporation shall have power to determine
the width and dimensions of the said railroad ; to regulate the time
and manner in which goods and passengers shall be transported
thereon; and the manner of collecting tolls for such transportation;
and to erect and maintain toll-houses, &c. -Sect. 11. The said corporation may demand and receive from all persons using or travelling upon said rail the following tolls ; to wit, for every ton weight

-

Oct. 1876.]

LAKE SUPERIon & Miss. R.R. Co. v. U. S.

44T

of goods,'&c., three cents per mile for every mile the same shall
pass upon the said road, and a ratable proportion for any greater
or less quantity; for every pleasure-carriage, or carriage used for the
conveyance of passengers, three cents per mile, in addition to the
toll by weight upon the loading. Sect. 12. All persons paying
the toll aforesaid may, with suitable and proper carriages, Use and
travel upon the said railroad, subject to such rules and regulations
as the said corporation are authorized to make by the ninth section
of this act." Laws of 1828, p. 17.
Substantially the same proiisions were contained -in other
charters granted in 1828 and 1829. Laws of 1828, pp. 197,
228, 296, 307, 408, 474; Laws of 1829, p. 252. In 1830 and
subsequent years, an abbreviated formula was employed, but
still apparently recognizing the possible use of the roads by the
public; giving, amongst other things, express power to regulate the time and manner in which goods and passengers should
be transported thereon, and power to erect toll-houses, &c. So
in the early charters granted by the legislature of Massachusetts, it was usual, after granting a toll upon all passengers and
property conveyed or transported upon the road, to provide
that the transportation of persons and property, the construction of wheels, the form of cars and carriages, the weight of
loads, &c., should be in conformity to such rules, regulations,
and provisions as the directors should prescribe, and that the
road might be used by any persons who should comply with
such rules and regulations. This formula was continued down
to 1835. See 2 Railroad Laws and Charters, pp. 411 60, 67,
77, 95, 103, 117, 124, 132, 141. 166, 195, 215. Like provisions
"were inserted in various charters granted by the
legislature of
Maine, some as late as the year 1837; and in 1842 a general
law was passed, requiring every railroad company whose road
should be connected with that of another company to draw
over their road the cars of such other company; and, on refusal
so to do, the latter company was authorized to run its cars, with
its own locomotives over such road, being subject to the general regulations thereof. See 1 id. 8, 22, 60, 63, 77, 310.
Similar provisions as to the use of railroads by the public are
contained in several early charters granted by the legislature of
New Hampshire, coming down -to a period as late as 1844.

448

LAKE SUPERIOR & MISS. R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct..

Id. 325, 335, 343, 364, 378, 411. In that year a statute was
passed, entitled "An Act to render railroad corporations public
in certain cases," &c., by one section of which it was provided,
that said corporations, whenever thereto required by the legislature, should permit all persons to run locomotives and cars on
their road. Id. p. 648.
In New Jersey, not only did the railroad charters contain
provisions similar to those above quoted with regard to the
authority of the directors to regulate the construction of carriages to be used on their roads, the weight of loads to be
carried, the times of starting and the rate of speed, but expressly declared that such roads should be public highways.
See Charter of Camden and Amboy Railroad Company, Feb. 4,
1830. The charter of the New Jersey Railroad, passed in
1832, distinguished between tolls for transportation in the cars
of the company and those of other persons; and provided that
no farmer should be required to pay any toll for the transportation of the produce of his farm to market in his own carriage,
weighing not more than one ton, when the load did not exceed
one thousand pounds.
The charter of the Philadelphia and Trenton Railroad Coinpany, granted by the legislature of Pennsylvania in 1832,
expressly made the road a public highway, and contained various provisions adapted- to a road of that character', and no
doubt similar provisions were contained in other charters
granted in that State.
In the case of .Boyle v. Philadelphia and Beading Railroad
Company, 54 Penn. 310, decided in 1867, the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania held that the charter of the latter company
made the road a public highway, on which all persons might
place vehicles of transportation on conforming to the regulations of the company; and that in limiting the amount of
"tolls" demandable for transportation on the road, the legislature had reference to "tolls " charged to other parties using
the road, and not to the freights or charges for transportation
which the company itself was authorized ter demand when performing transportation.
In Missouri, as late as the year 1847, the legislature, when
incorporating the Hannibal and St. "Joseph Ra lroad Company,

Oct. 1876.]

LAKE SUPERIOR & Miss.

R.R. Co. v. U. S.

449

subjected it to the same restrictions and gave to it the same
privileges before imposed and conferred on the Louisiana and
Columbia Railroad Company, created in 1837; amongst which
was the following: namely, " that the company should have
power to prescribe the kind of carriage to be used on its road,
by whom, whether to be propelled by steam or other power, all
cars being subject to the discretion of the company, and no
person to put any carriage on the road without its permission;
and the company was authorized to charge tolls and freight for
the transportation of persons, commodities, or carriages on the
road; and it was declared that the State and the United States
should have the right, in time of war, to use said road in transportation of troops or munitions of war in preference to all
other persons.'.' Missouri Railroad Laws, pp. 8-13. In reference to this railroad (among others), Congress, in 1852, made
a grant of land to the State of Missouri, with the same reservation now under consideration, "that the said railroads shall
be and remain public highways for the use of the government of the United States," &c. 10 Stat. 9. Read in connection with the charter of tfe railroad, which the rule relating
to laws in pari materia requires, it is certain that, in this
case at least, the reservation has relation'to the use of the
railroad alone, and not to the transportation service of the
company.
On the other hand, in Maryland, from the first railroad charter granted in 1826,-namely, that of the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company, - the legislature has prohibited the use of
railroads by any other company or person than the companies
owning the same, except with their consent. But even this
legislation is a recognition of the distinction between the railroad considered as a structure adapted to general use, and its
actual use by placing vehicles and conducting transportation
thereon. See Laws of Md. 1826, c. 123, sect. 18, and charters
in subsequent years in the Session Laws.
It is undoubtedly true, that, in practice, railroads, as a general
thing, are only operated by the companies that own them, or
by those with whom they have permanent arrangements for
the purpose. These companies have a practical, if not a legal,
monopoly of their use. The great expense of constructing and
VOL. 111.

29

450

LAKE SUPERIOi & Miss. R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

managing cars and motive power fit to be used on railroads as
they have actually developed, the difficulty of strict compliance
with the regulations adopted, and the diversified ways in which
the companies could make the transportation business uncomfortable to those who might attempt to carry it on, are a most
effectual security against any interference with their business
as carried on by themselves. And in some of the States where
railroads were originally declared public highways, the right of
the public to use them has been expressly abrogated, - as in
.Massachusetts, for example, by the act of 1845. See Railroad
Laws and Ch. 648.
But the ascertained impracticability of the general and indiscriminate public use of these great thoroughfares does not
preclude their use by transportation companies having no interest in the roads themselves. Such companies, in fact, are
actually engaged in conducting a vast carrying business on the
principal lines of railroad throughout the country, Nor does
it preclude the idea, that it may be of great importance to the
government, in conducting its various operations in peace and
in war, to have the free use of railroads as thoroughfares whenever it chooses to assume the conduct and management of its
own transportation thereon.
Be this, however, as it may, the general course of legislation
referred to sufficiently demonstrates the fact, that in the early
history of railroads it was quite generally supposed that they
could be public highways in fact as well as in name. This view
pervaded the language of most charters granted at that period,
many of which still remain in force; and the railroads constructed under them are, theoretically at least, public highways
to this day. This fact affords the only explanation of much of
the language used, not only in those early charters, but in many
of those which have been granted since, the latter adopting, as
was natural, the forms of phraseology found prepared to hand.
The language referred. to is only consistent with the idea that
railroads were to be regarded and used as public highways.
The forms of legislative expression thus adopted, and coming
down from-a period when they had greater practical significance than they now have, bring with them an established sense,
which renders them free from all uncertainty and doubt. We

Oct. 1876.]

LAKE SUPERIOR & Miss. R.R. Co. v. U. S.

45t

know, as well as we know the sense. of any phrase in the English language which has a historical meaning and application,
-whatis meant when a railroad is spoken of in a law as a "public highway." We know that it refers to the immovable structure stretching across the country, graded and railed for the use
of the locomotive and its train of cars.
But it is not alone in charters which contemplate the creation
of railroads as public highways that we find evidence of the understood distinction between-railroads as 'nere thoroughfares, and
the operations to be carried on upon them by means of locomotives and cars. This is manifest from the fact, amongst other
things, that express power is .invariably given (if intended to
be conferred) to the railroad company to equip its road, and to
transpor goods and passengers thereon and charge compensation therefor. Thi; practice evidently springs from the conviction that a railroad company is not necessarily a transportation
company, and that, to make it such, express authority must be
given for that purpose, in compliance with the rule that no
power is conferred upon a corporation which is not given expressly or by clear implication.
In view of the legislative history and practice referred to, it
seems impossible to resist the conclusion, when we meet with a
legislative declaration to the effect that a particular railroad
shall be a public highway, that the meaning is, that it shall be
open to the use of the public with their own vehicles; and that
when Congress, in granting lands in aid of such a road, declared
that the same shall be and remain a public highway for the use
of the government of the United States, it only means that the
government shall have the right to use the road, but not that it
shall have the right to-require its transportation to be performed
by the railroad company. And when this right of the use of the
road is granted "free from all toll or other charge for transportation of any property or troops of the United States," it
only means, that the government shall not be subject to any toll
for such use of the road. This, we think, is the natural and
most obvious meaning of the language used, when viewed in
the light afforded by the history of railroad legislation in this
country.
This was also the interpretation put by the Executive De-

452

LAKE SUPERIOR

& Miss. R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

partment of the government upon the reservation in question
prior to the passage of the acts of 1864. At the breaking out
of the late civil war, it became a matter of great practical importance to the railroad companies whikh had received grants
of land subject to this restriction, whether they were or were
not to receive any compensation for transporting government
property and troops in their cars. It was held that they were,
and that a reasonable abatement should be made for the free
use of the road, to which the government was entitled. The
views of the War Department were set forth in a communication from Mr. Cameron, Secretary of War, to the president of
the Illinois Central Railroad Company, dated Aug. 15, 1861,
in which he says, "It has been decided by this department
that the clause in your charter (9 Stat. 467, sect. 4) gives a
clear right to the government of the United States to the use
of your roadway, withQut compensation, for the transportation
of its troops and its property. As a proper compensation for
motive power, cars, and all other facilities incident to transportation, two cents per mile will be allowed for passenger travel,
subject to a discount of thirty-three and a third per cent as due
to government for charter privileges. Payment for transportation of freights, stores, munitions of war, and other public property, will be made at such reasonable rates as may be allowed
railroad companies, subject, however, to the abatement of thirtythree and a third per cent, as before specified." A movement
to compel the same company to transport property for the government free of charge was made in 1865; but was reported
against adversely by learned committees, after receiving from
the War Department a full explanation of the reasons upon
which its action had been based. See letter of Q. IM. Gen.
.Meigs to Senator *Sherman, dated Feb. 14, 1865, and the action of the Senate and House of Representatives, 2d Sess.
38th Congress, Cong. Globe, vol. lxviii. pp. 890-902, 1045,
1387-1389. The same views were fully expressed by the
Attorney-General, when applied to for his opinion, in 1872.
14 Opinions, 591. In accordance with these views, settlements
were made with the different companies concerned down to
the passage of the act of 1874, suspending payment, as before
stated.

Oct. 1876.]

LAKE

SUPMuoR & Mkiss. R.R. Co. v. U. S.

453

It is not without significance, in this connection, that in other
grants, when Congress intended to provide for transportation
being performed by the railroad company, explicit and proper
language is used for that purpose. As in the case of the
Union Pacific Railroad Company, chartered by Congress July 1,
1862, where it is enacted that the company shall transmit
despatches over its telegraph lines, transport mails, troops, and
munitions of war, supplies, and public stores, upon its railroad,
for the government, whenever required to do so by any department thereof, and that the government shall at all times have
the preference in the use of the same for all the purposes
aforesaid, at fair and reasonable rates of compensation, not to
exceed the amount paid by private parties for the same kind
of service. 12 Stat. 493. In this case compensation was provided for. In other cases. the transportation was to be furnished without charge. After the discussion in 1865, before
referred to, Congress made several grants of land, with the
express reservation that the government property should be
transported over the roads concerned at the cost, charge, and
expense of the company owning and operating the same, when
required by the United States so to do, using language entirely different from that under consideration in the cases now
before the court. See acts of 1866 (14 Stat. 95, 237, 241, 290,
338, 549).
But suppose, in the cases under consideration, the States of
Kansas and Minnesota, to which the land-grants were directly
made, had themselves severally chosen to construct the railroads
in question, to b- operated and used by any individuals or
transportation corporations who might see fit to place rollingstock thereon upon payment of the proper tolls, would thegovernment have had any further right than that of using the
road with its own carriages free of toll ? It certainly could
not have the right to use the carriages of third persons placed
on the road; nor, from any thing contained in the act of
Congress, could it require that the State should procure and
place rolling-stock on the road. All that the act reserves is
the fmiee use of the railroad. Of course this implies, also, the
free use of all fixtures and appurtenances forming part of the
road, and which ar; essential to its practical use, such"as turn-

4541

LAKE SUPERIOR & Miss. R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

tables, switches, d6p~ts, and other necessary appendages. Lord
Chancellor Cottenham, in the case of Cother v. The Midland
-ailway Company, 2 Phill. 473, said, "The term 'railway,'
by itself, includes all works authorized to be constructed; and,
for the purpose of constructing the railway, the company are
authorized to construct such stations and other works as they
may think proper." 1 Redf. on Raiw., sect. 105. The " works"
referred to by the Lord Chancellor were those permanent
and immovable appendages which constitute parts of the completed structure.
We are of opinion that the reservation in cuestion secures to
the government only a free use of the railroads concerned, and
that it does not entitle the government to have troops or
Property transported by the companies over their respective
roads free of charge for transporting the same.
In coming to this conclusion, we do not place any great stress
upon the use of the word "toll," as being a word peculiarly
applicable to charges for the use of a highway, as contradistinguished from the charge for transportation, which is more
properly denominated "freight;" for whilst this is undoubtedly true, it must be -conceded, that, in the, actual language of
railroad legislation, the word "toll" is very often used to
express the charge for transportation also. Our opinion is
based rather upon that marked distinction which the mind
naturally makes, and which is so generally made in railroad
legishtion between the road as a thoroughfare and the transaction of the carrier business thereon, whether by the railroad
company itself or by otherpersons, and the manifest intent of
Congress, in the legislation under review, to reserye only the
free use of the road, and not the active service of the company
in transportation.
The objection that it would be inconvenient for government
to provide locomotives and cars for the performance of its transportation cannot be properly urged. The government can do
what it always has done, without experiencing any difficulty, employ the services of the railroad and transportation companies
which have provided these accommodations. It might be very
convenient for the government to have more lights than it has
stipulated for; but we are on a question of construction, and

Oct. 1876.]

LAKE SUPERIOR & Miss.

R.R. Co. v. U. S.

455

on this question the Usus loquendi is a far more valuable aid
than the inquiry what might be desirable.
Equally untenable is the idea, that, because railways are not
ordinarily used as public highways, therefore the appellation of
"public highways," when given to them, must mean something
different from what it has ever meant before, and must embrace
the rolling-stock with which they are operated and used. Such
a method of interpretation would set us all at sea, and would
invest the courts with the power of making contracts,-instead
of the parties to them. It is contended by the government, that
though it be not entitled to the active services of the company,
but only to the use of the "railroad," that, at least, this term
(railroad) must be regarded as including the equipment of the
road as a part thereof, and that the government should be
adjudged to have the free use of the locomotives and cars of the
company, as well as the track. But, as suggested, we cannot
see any good reason for this position. No doubt the word, as
used in certain connections and in particular charters and
instruments, may properly have a wider latitude of signification,
so as to include the equipment'and rolling-stock as accessory to
the track, constituting together one incorporated mass or corpus
of property as the subject-matter of the particular enactment
or disposition. It is not our purpose to question the propriety
of this view in the cases and for the purposes to which it may
be applicable. But where, as in the laws under review, the
railroad is referred to throughout in its character as a road, as
a permanent structure, and designated and, required to be a
"public highway," it cannot, without doing violence to language,
and disregarding the long-established usage of legislative expression, as shown in the previous part of this opinion, be
extended to embrace the rolling-stock or other personal property
of the railroad company.
The decrees of the Court of Claims in the several cases must
be reversed, and a new decree made in favor of the respective
petitioners, in conformity with the principles of this opinion;
that is to say, awarding to each of them compensation for all
transportation performed by them respectively of troops and
property of the government (excepting the mails), subject to a
fair deduction for the use of their respective railroads.

456

LAKE SUPERIOR & Miss.

R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JUSTICE MILLER, with whom concurred MiR. JUSTICE
S WAYNE, and MR. JUSTICE DAvIS,
dissenting.
I propose to state briefly the reasons why I cannot concur in
the judgment of the court in these cases.
The grants of lands to these railroads are of great value, and
were made before a single dollar was expended in their construction, and were so necessary to the success of these enterprises, that it may be safely assumed that the roads would not
have been built without them.
The only compensation, which can properly be so called, to
the United States, is found in the following proviso to the third
section of the grant to the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa F6
Railroad Company: "The said railroad and branches shall be
and remain public highways for the use of the government of
the United States, free from all toll or other charge upon the
transportation of any property or troops of the United States."
12 Stat. 773. This act was passed in 1863 ; and a grant to the
other company, passed in 1864, contained a proviso in the same
words, with the substitution of the word "for" in place of the
word "upon " preceding the word "transportation."
The only question in these cases is, What right or privilege
did Congress intend to secure to the government by this
proviso ?
Notwithstanding the argument, built upon the assertion that
railroads in England were first used as other roads by the
persons who used them furnishing their own vehicles of transportation, and, perhaps, motive power, and that there may
possibly exist at this day one or two short railroad tracks connecting coal-mines with other railroads, on which each mining
company furnishes its own cars and locomotives, I venture the
assertion, that there does not now exist in the United States,
and has not ever existed, any railroad track over which the
general public actually ran, each man for himself, his own cars
propelled by his own locomotives, and managed and controlled
by his own conductors, engineers, brakesmen, &c. In short, I
deny that at the date of these grants there was in existence
"any practicable system anywhere in the United States by which
the government or any one else could use the track of a railroad,
CLIFFORD, MR. JUSTICE

Oct. 1876.]

LAKE SUPERIOR & Miss. R.R.

Co. v. U. S.

457

without using its usual and necessary appurtenances; namely,
its cars, locomotives, d6pOts, agents, officers, and servants. I
will not discuss the proposition, because its truth or falsehood
is open to the observation and experience of all men who know
any thing of the present railroad system of the -world.
It follows, that if the United States secured any thing by the
proviso, the use of the road by the government, for which no
toll or other charge was to be made, must be the only use
which is at all practicable, and the same use which is made of
it by all others who have occasion to employ it.
Nothing is gained in the argument by the criticism on the
phrase, "public highway for the use of the government." Railroads, such as we have described them, and limited in the manner of their use to their own rolling-stock, managed by their
own officers, are, if not technically so, really public ways. They
exist nowhere except by statutory authority of the government.
They would not be tolerated for a moment in any State of the
Union, unless they were free in some mode of use to all the
public. They no more dare to refuse to transport persons and
property of the general public over the whole or any part of
their road, than a ferryman would refuse to do the same thing
over his ferry.
They have received grants, corporate subscriptions, and municipal gifts, on the ground that they arejor the public use, which
could be valid on no other-ground. Loan Asociation v. Topeka,
20 Wall. 661. And they are subject to such legislative regulations as are ferries, bridges, turnpikes, and other public means
of conveyance and transportation, where they have secured no
restriction on this legislative power either by contract or by
constitutional provision.
The words "public highways for the use of the government"
only express that the roads are to be open to the use of the
government as to others, and are introductory to the modification of the terms on which this use is by the contract conceded
to the United States; namely, that it is to be "free of toll or
other charge upon the transportation of any property or troops
of the United States."
Much stress in the argument of counsel is laid upon the word
"toll," which, it is said, is inapplicable in any other sense than

458

LAKE SUPERIOR & Miss. R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

a charge for the use of the road-bed. If we should concede this,
it would advance the argument but little; for the use of the
road is to be free from toll or other charge on transportation.
Now, what is suit brought for in these cases but for a charge
for transportation, - a charge upon transportation by these
companies ? If it is not a toll, it is another charge for transportation. If it is a toll, it is equally to be free.
But the word "toll" has never been restricted to the limited
sense here contended for.
In 6 Com. Dig. 349, art. "Toll" a "toll thorough," which is
the class of tolls relating to ways, is said to be "a sum demanded for a passage through a highway or for a passage over
a ferry." In the case of the ferry, it surely will not be said
that the toll is for the use of the river; nor will it be denied
that it is for transportation over the river by means of the ferryman's boat, his labor, and if it be in a steamboat, it is the very
class of"means used by a railroad company. A "toll thorough,"
the n, as understood at the common law, did include compensation for something more than the use of a road-bed or a
water-way, and did include, when applied to a proper case,
compensation for the means of locomotion and transportation
used by the party who claimed the right of toll.
So, also, "toll" is the word used to express the compensation allowed by law or custom to a miller for grinding grain.
2 Bouv. Law Diet. 598. Now, the motive power of ancient
mills in England was principally the water of rivers or other
streams, and the owner of the grain did nothing but to bring
his grist to the mill and carry it away. It is true that in this
country there is, and has been, a class of mills run by horsepower, where the owner of the grain furnished the horses, and
the other party the mill; and in these, also, the compensation is
These instances are
called by both statutes -and customs, "toll."
sufficient to show that neither by the common law of England,
by its statutes, nor by customary usage there-or in the United
States, is the word "toll" limited to compensation for the use
of a road, a way, a mill, or a -ferry, where the moving power
comes from the party using it; but, on the contrary, that it is
and always has been applied to compensation for such use when
the thing used, and the motive power by which it was used,

Oct. 1876.]

LAKE SUPERIOR & Miss. R.R. Co. v. U. S.

459

came from the party charging the toll, as well as when it came
from the party paying it.
It is, therefore, a word properly used to express the charges
made by railroad companies for transportation of persons and
property in the manner which is now usual, and, I may add,
universal.
We are seeking to ascertain the meaning which the Congress
of the United States attached to a certain form of words; and
if that body had, before the use of the words in the two statutes which we are construing, made any public and official
declaration of the sense in which they used them, both the
grantees in these later statutes, and this court, must be bound
by that declaration.
The form of proviso under consideration had been adopted in
many previous grants -of land for railroad and other purposes;
among others, in 1852, to the-State of Missouri, for the Hannibal and St. Joseph and the Pacific Railroad.
Upon the outbreak of the rebellion these roads suffered very
much from the intestine war of the State, and were called upon
almost beyond the extent of their ability for transportation of
troops, food, and munitions of war, for the government of the
United States. It was found that if they were to do all this
without compensation they would soon be bankrupt, and had
better abandon their property to the government.
In view of this great hardship, unanticipated by any one at
the date of their grants, Congress made provision by the joint
resolution of March 6, 1862 (12 Stat. 614), for an equitable
arrangement by which the companies could discharge some
portion of their obligation,, and yet receive from the government sich compensation, during the existence of the war, and
in view of the public exigency, as might be just and reasonable. But the preamble declared, that in doing this they did
not waive the right of the United States to have their property
and troops transported free from toll or other charges-of said
railroad, as contemplated by the provisions of the grant already
referred to.
MHre was, in 1862, - the year before the first of the grants
under consideration was made, and two years before the other,
-a
declaration by Congress, placed on the statute-book, that

RUSSELL V. DODGE.

[Sup. Ct.

they understood and claimed that this form of words gave them
the right to have all their troops and property transported by
these companies free of charge; and that as full performance
was, in the condition of things at that time, impossible, they
waived the exercise of that right as long as the war lasted, and
would make a provisional arrangement for that time to enable

the companies' to get along.
Were not the parties who received and acted upon grants
made the next year bound to know and understand the sense in

which Coiigress used this form of words ? Can they now be
heard to say that another and far different meaning was attached to .them by Congress from that which the same body
asserted for them a year before? If they did not wish to
accept the grants under that construction, they need not do it.
But if they did accept them, and have sold the land, they are
bound by the public statutory construction previously given by
Congress of the meaning which they attached to the words
used in the grants.

For these reasons, I am of opinion that the

judgment of the Court of Claims ought to be affirmed.

RUSSELL v. DODGE.
1. Where a reissued patent is granted upon a surrender of the original, for its
alleged defective or insufficient specification, such specification cannot be
substantially changed in the reissued patent, either by the addition of new
*matter or the omission of important particulars, so as to enlarge the scope
of the invention, as originally claimed. A defective specification can be rendered more definite and certain, so as to embrace the claim made, or the
claim can be so modified as to correspond with the specification; but, except
under special circumstances, this is the extent to which the operation of the
original patent can be changed by the reissue.
2. Where the Patent was for a process of treating bark-tanned lamb or sheep'skin
by means of a compound, in which heated -fat liquor was an essential ingredient, and a change was made in the original specification, by eliminating
the necessity of using the fat'liquor in a heated condition, and making, in
the new-specification, its use in that condition a mere matter of convenience,
and by inserting an independent claim for the use of fat liquor in the
treatment of leather generally, the character ind scope of the invention, as
originally claimed; were held to be so enlarged as to constitute a different
invention.
S. The action of the Commissioner of Patents, in granting a reissue within the
limits of his authority, is not open 'to collateral impeachment; but, his

-

