Oct. 1876.]

WEST

WISCONSIN R.R. Co. v. SuPERvISoRS.

595

made, because up to that time the war existed as a fact, and
the parties occupied towards each other the relation of public
enemies. All restrictions upon commercial intercourse between
Tennessee and New Orleans were removed by an executive
order published April 29, 1865, 13 Stat. 776, which was followed by an executive proclamation of similar purport under
date of May 22, 1865, id, 757, so that while the war existed as
a political fact until June 13, the date of the official announcement of its close, business intercourse between the citizens of
the two places was allowed after April 29. Bond, therefore,
as the holder of the bill upon which this suit is brought, might
properly have demanded its payment by the drawee in New
Orleans, and notified his indors~r in Tennessee of the nonpayment at any time after that date. Neither his rights nor
his duties in this particular were in any manner dependent
upon or affected by the proclamation of June 13. We have
already decided to the same effect in Masterson v. Howard,
18 Wall. 105, and Matthews v. McStea, 91 U. S. 7.
Judgment affirmed.

WEST WISCONSIN RAILWAY CONPANY v. BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF TREMPEALEAU COUNTY.
The doctrine announced in Tucker v. Ferguson, 22 Wall. 527, - that an act of the
legislature of a State, exempting property of a railroad company from taxation,
is not, when a mere gratuity on the part of the State, a contract to continue
such exemption, but is always subject to modification and repeal in like manner as other legislation,.- reaffirmed, and applied to this case.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin.
Argued by Mr. P. L. Spooner and Mr. Matt. Hf. Carpenter
for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. S. U. Pinney for the
defendants in error.
MR. JUSTIcE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The facts of this case are substantially the same with those
of Tucker v. Ferguson,22 Wall. 527, and the question presented
for our determination does not vary materially from the one
there decided.

596

WEST WISCONSIN R.R. Co. v. SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

The United States granted certain lands to the State of
Wisconsin to aid in the construction of failroads in that State.
The State transferred a portion of the lands to the plaintiff in
error for the purpose and upon the terms and conditions specified
by Congress.
Patents for designated quantities of the land were to issue to
the company as successive sections of the road of twenty miles
each were -completed. In the mean time, the title of the company was inchoate. On the 2d of April, 1864, the legislafure
of Wisconsin passed an act, whereby, in the first section, it was
declared that all the lands in question the title whereto should
become vested in the company should be exempt from taxation
for ten years from the passage of the, act. The second section
declared that such lands should become subject to taxation as
soon as they were sold, leased, or conveyed by the company.
The last clause of this section is as follows: "Provided that
said-lands may be mortgaged for the purpose of raising funds
to buildsaid railroad without being §ubject to taxation for the
time aforesaid."
. In August, 1868, the company executed a mortgage of its
roadway aiid rolling-stock, and of all the lands it might thereafteracquire, as security for its bonds, to the amount of $4,000,000,
maturing at different times. By another act, of the, 16th 'of
March, 1870, the exemptioii from taxation was farther extended
for ten years. B-it it was deilared: "And it is further provided,
and this act is upon the express condition that if said railroad
company shall not have built theii said road within two years
from the passage of this act, then, and in that case, this act
shall be nulf and void: 1Provided, that this act shall not apply
to Pierce County."
The bonds secured by th6 deed of trust were issued in successive series, in the years 1868, 1870, 1871, and 1872.' The company realized from the four millions of bonds- about-13,200,000,
and applied the amount received to the construction of their
road. A part of the road was completed in 1868, forty-five
miles in 1870, and the entirb line during the month of November,
1871. By an act of the legislature of March 15, 1871, it was
enacted that the lands in Trempealeau County belonging to any
railroad company" not used for road-bed or d6p8t purposes shall.

Oct. 1876.]

WEST WISCONSIN R.R. Co. v. SUPERVISORS.

597

be liable to taxation the same as other real estate." By an
act of March 24, 1871; the exemption act of March 16, 1870,
was amended so that it should not apply to Trempealeau County.
The tax in question was levied in 1871, and the sale for its
non-payment complained of was made in 1872. The exemption
created by the act of 1864 was to terminate in 1874. That
specified in the act of 1870 was then to commence.
The plaintiff in error insists that these acts-the lands of
the company having been-mortgaged pursuant to the first, and
the road having been completed within the time limited by the
second - created a contract within the contract clause of the
Constitution of the United States', and that, therefore, the two
acts of 1870 abrogating the exemptions were void.
In the argument here, a large share of the discussion was
devoted to sect. 1, art. 2, of the constitution-of Wisconsin. In
our view, it is unnecessary to consider that branch of the case,
and it will not be further adverted to.
One who has examined this case cannot look through Tucker
v. -Ferguson,as reported, without being struck with the similarity
of the points and arguments, as well as the substantial identity
of the facts, in the two cases. The latter case was carefully
considered in all its aspects by this court. It is unnecessary
to reproduce at length the views then expressed. In that case,
22 Wall. 575, we said: "The taxing power is vital,to the functions of government. It
helps to sustain the. social compact, and to give it efficacy. It is
intended to promote the general welfare. It reaches the interests
of every member of the community. It may be restrained by contract in special cases for the public' good, where such contracts are
not forbidden. But the contract must be shown to exist. There
is no presumption in its favor. Every reasonable doubt should be
resolved against it. Where it exists, it is to be rigidly scrutinized,
and never permitted to extend, either in scope or duration, beyond
what the terms of the concession clearly require. It is in derogation of public right, and narrows a trust created for the good
of all."
We hold here, as we held there, that the exemptions in
question ivere gratuities offered by the State, without any
element of a contract. There was no assurance or intimation

598

WEST WiscoNsm R.R. Co. v. SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

that they 'were intended to be irrevocable, or that the laws in
question should not be at all times subject to modification or
repeal in like manner as other legislation. If a different intent
had existed, it would doubtless have been clearly manifested by
the language employed. It would not have been left to encounter
the possible results of such a struggle and conflict as have
occurred in this litigation.
The State asked for no promise from the company, and the
company gave none. It was optional with- the company to
mortgage its lands or not, and to complete or nc t to complete
the road within two years. The early completion of the road
was beneficial to the company as well as- to the .public. Until
then, there could be no income, and thee was A constant loss
of interest. Every step. of progress added to the value of the
lands of the company through which the road was to pass.
Each; party was at liberty to take its own course. If the
company came within the condition specified in the act of 1870,
it would be- in a position to take the gratuity offered by that
act. If this were so, the State might continue or withdraw
that gratuity when it took effect, as it might deem best for the
public welfare; and it possessed the same power with reference
to the exemption created by the prior act of 1864, whilq that
act was operative. Neither party was, nor was intended to be,
in any wise bound to the other. The State was at all times
wholly unfettered as to both exemptions. The company chose
to bring itself within the condition of the act of 1870. .The
State chose to continue the gratuity for a time, and then withdrew it. The exemption given'by both acts was abrogated a
year beford the bonds of the last series were issued, and before
the first term of exemption expired or the second began. The
State did what it had an unqualified right to do. In such cases,
a reasonable doubt is fatal to the claim. Primafacie every
presumption is against it. It .isonly when the terms of the
concession are too explicit to admit fairly of any other const ruction that the proposition can be suppoxted. Providence
Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 561; Christ's Church v. Philadelphia,
24 How. 302; Gilman v. Sheboygan, 2 Black, 513; Herrick v.
Randolph, 13 Vt. 531'; Easton Bank v. Commonwealth, 10
Penn. St. 450; People v. Roper, 35 N. Y. 629.

Oct. 1876.]

BADGER ET AL. V. U. S. EX REL.

BOLLES.

599

We hold the conclusion we have announced to be the law of
this case. With its ethics we have nothing to do. That
subject is not open to our consideration.
Jtidgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAvIS did not sit in this case.

BADGE

.ET AL. V. UiTITED STATES EX REL. BoLLEs.

A supervisor, town-clerk, or justice of the peace, although his resignation is tendered to and accepted by the proper. authority, continues in office, ind is
not relieved from his duties and responsibilities as a member of the board
of auditors, under the township organization laws of the State of Illinois, until

his successor is appointed, or chosen and qualified.

ERRxOR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
On the seventh day of January, 1875, the relators fired in the
Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois their petition for a writ of mandamus agaikist the plaintiffs in error,
alleging that, on May 7, 1874, they recovered, in said court, two
judgments at law against the town of Amboy, a municipal corporation under the township organization laws of the State of
Illinois; that the supervisor, town-clerk, and justices of the peace
of the town constituted a board of auditors, not less than three
being a quorum, whose duty it was to convene on the Tuesday
preceding the second Tuesday of September, and on the Tuesday preceding the first Tuesday in April, in each year, to examine and audit town accounts; that on the 29th of August,
1874, said board of auditors consisted of Chester Badger, the
supervis9r, Charles E. Ives, the town-clerk, Lee Cronkrite, Oliver F. Warrener, Simon Badger, and William B. Andrus, justices
of the peace of said town; that the relators on that dt.y presented to said board a sworn statement that the judgments were
just and unpaid, and should be audited and allowed; they also
at the same time delivered to, and filed with, the clerk of the
said town, a certified copy of said judgments, which the board
neglected and refused to audit, and has refused ever since;
that Chester Badger, Ives, Warrener, and Andrus pretended to

