O'HARA ET AL. V. MACCONNELL ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

On the whole, we are of the opinion that the court below
did not mistake the legal effect of the uncontradicted testimony
in the case, and that there was no error in instructing the jury
to find for the. plaintiffs.
Judgment affirmed.

O'HA±R

ET AL. v. MACCON ELL ET AL., ASSIGNEES.

1. A decree in chancery will be reversed if rendered against a woman who is
shown by the bill to be both a minor and feme covert, where no appearance
by or for hdr has been entered, and nt guardian ad litenz appointed.
2. It is error to render a final decree for want of appearance at the first term
after service of subpoena (Equity Rules, 18, 19), unless another rule-day has
intervened.
8. Where the -object is to divest a feme covert or minor 'of an interest in real
estate, the title of which is in a trustee for her use, the trust being an
active one, it is error to decree against her without making the trustee a
party to the suit.
4. The making of the conveyance, as ordered by the decree, does not deprive the
defendant of the right of appeal.
b. Neither a subsequent petition in the nature of a bill of review, nor any thing
set up in the answer to such petition. on whiclhno action was had by the
court, c n prevent a party from appealing from the original decree.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. J. T. Kirk"-for
the appellants. No counsel appeared for the appellees.
MR. JUsTIcE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Michael O'Hara was adjudged a bankrupt Dec. 9, 1867, and
the appellees duly appointed assignees, to whom an assignment
of his effects was made in due form. As such assignees, they
filed in the Circuit Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania the bill in chancery on which the decree was rendered
from which the present- appeal is'takei. The bill alleges that
a conveyance of certain real estate made by said O'Hara and
his wife, Frances, on the tenth day of July, 1866, to William
Harrison and G. L. B. Fetterman, in trust for the use of the
wife, was a fraud upon creditors, and prays that the deed be

Oct. 1876.]

O'HARA ET AL. V. MACCONNELL ET AL.

151

declared void, and that O'Hara, his wife, and Barr, her guardian, be decreed to convey the land to complainants, that they
may sell it for the benefit of O'Hara's creditors, free from the
embarrassment created by said deed of trust.
The bill also alleges that Mrs. O'Hara is a minor, and that
A. d. Barr is her legal guardian.
A subpcena was issued on the fifth day of April, 1869, and
served on the 7th, on O'Hara, for himself and wife, and on
Barr; and on the seventh day of May following, without appearance, and -without answer by any defendant, the bill was
amended, was taken as confessed, and a Anal decree rendered.
This decree enjoined the defendants from setting up any claim
to the land, and ordered all of them to convey and release the
same to the assignees; and, in default of such conveyance within
thirty days, Henry Sproul was appointed commissioner to do it
in their name. A copy of this decree was served on the
defendants May 10; and on the 14th of June the order was
complied with, by a deed made by O'Hara, his wife, and Barr,
which on its face purports. to be in execution of the order, and
for the consideration of one dollar. It will thus be seen, that
within less than five weeks from the filing of the bill, and
without any actual service of the writ or other notice on
her, a decree was entered against a woman who was both
a minor and a feme covert, without the appointment of a
guardian ad litern, without any appearance by her or for her,
depriving her of fourteen acres of land now within the limits
of the city of Pittsburg. It is from this decree that she
appeals.
By the thirteenth rule of practice of the courts of equity of
the United States, as it stood when the subpcena in this case
was served, a delivery of 'a copy to the husband was good,
where husband and wife were sued together; but the rule was
amended by this court in 1874, so as to require a personal
service on each defendant, or by leaving a copy for each at his
or her usual place of abode, with some adult member of the
family. The service in the present case would not now be
good, though it must be held to have been so at the time it
was made.
It would be very strange if a decree obtained under such

152

O'HARI ET AL. V. MACCONNELL, ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

circumstances could stand the test of a critical examination.
We are of opinion that there are several errors sufficient to
justify its reversal.
1. It was- the duty of th~e court, where the bill on its face
showed that the party whose interest was the principal one to
be affected by the decree was both a minor and a feme covert,
and that no one appeared for her in any manner to protect her
interest, to have appointed a guardian ad litem for that purpose.
If neither her husband nor he who is styled her guardian in the
bill appeared to- defend her interest, it was the more imperative
that the court should have appointed some one to do it. There
is no evidende in the record, except the statement in the bill,
that Dr. Barr was her guardian.-- If he was not, then there was
no one served with notice, whose legal duty it was to defend
her. If e was her guardian, there is no evidence of the precise
nature of his duties or power, as there are several classes of
guardians. As to the particular property now in contest, she
had a trustee, in whom the title was vested for her use, and
whose duty it would have been to protect herjnterest in it;
but, stranigely enough, he was not made a party. -It was, therefore, error, in the -court to proc eed" to a decree without appointing a guardiaii ad litem. 1 Daniell's Ch. Pr. -160, c. 4, sect. 9 ;
Coughlin's Heirs v. Brents, 1 McLean, 175 ; Lessee of Nelson
v. Moore, 3 id! 321.
2. If Mrs. O'Hara had been under no disability, it was error
t6 have entered a final decree for waii of appearance on the
return day of the writ, or during that term.
"According to the practice .of the English Chancery Court,"
says Mr. Justice Washington, in Pendleton v; lEvans's BE'r,
4 Wash. C. C. 337, "a bill cannot be taken pro confesso after
service of subpcona, and even after appearance, until all the
processes pf contempt to a sequestration have been exhausted;
after which the bill is taken pro confesso, and a decree passes
which is absolute in the first instance." He then comments
on the practice of the New York Chancery Court, which, instead of a proceeding in contemipt, required a rule to answer to
be served on the defendant; and, if -this -was not obeyed, the
bill might be then taken pro confesso."He -then adds: "The
principl which"goyerns the practice in bdth these courts is, that

Oct. 1876.]

O'HARIA

ET AL. V'. MACCONNELL ET AL.

the defendant shall not be taken by surprise, but shall have
sufficient warning before a decree is entered against him by
default." He then states the practice by the rules adopted by
the Supreme Court for the Federal courts, as follows: "If the
answer, the subpoena being returned executed, be not filed
within three months after the day of appearance and bill filed,
then defendant is to be ruled to answer, and, failing to do so,
the bill may be taken for confessed, and the matter thereof
decreed immediately; but this decree is only nisi, to be made
absolute at the term succeeding that to which service of a copy
of the decree shall be returned executed, unless cause to the
contrary be shown." And in the case of Read v. Consequa,
4 Wash. C. C. 180, where a bill on which an injunction had
been allowed had remained unanswered, and without appearance of defendant, who had been duly served five years before,
he refused to grant an order taking the bill pro confesso because
it would be irregtilar.
What a contrast to the speed with which the decree was
entered in the case before us !
Rules 18 and 19 of the equity practice as now-existing have
modified those which are mentidned by Judge Washington, and,
unless the defendant demur, plead, or answer, on or before
the rule-day next succeeding his appearance, the plaintiff may
enter an order in the- order-book that the bill be taken-pro
confesso, and the matter thereof decreed-at the next succeeding term. But in the case -before us the final decree w~s
entered on the day fixed for appearance, or, at most, at the
same term.
The standing rule now requires defendant to plead- by the
next rule-day after appearance, which is the same as ifa special
rule were taken on him to do so.
It is, therefore, clear that final decree could not be made,
even under the present rules, until the term of the court next
succeeding the day of default.
The remarks of Mr. Justice Washington show that these
rules are not merely technical and arbitrary, but are made to
prevent a defendant from losing his rights by surprise.
3. The legal title to the property in question was -held by
Fetterman, in trust for Mrs. O'Hara. The trust was not a

154

O'HARA ET AL. V. MACCONNELL ET AL.

[Sup. Ot.

naked or dry trust; for he was empowered, with her consent, to
sell it, and reinvest the proceeds on the same trusts, or to mortgage it, and with the money so raised purchase other real
estate.
How the decree can clear the property of this trust without
having the trustee before the court it is difficult to see. This
was the object of the suit; but how can it be made effectual
for that purpose in the absence of the person in whom the title
is vested ?
We think that, in a case like this, where a woman, under the
double disability of coverture and infancy, has a trustee in whom
the title of the property in controversy is vested for her use,
the court should have refuised a decree until he was made a

party.
It is said, that, after making the deed which the court ordered,
the appellant is bound by it, and cannot now prosecute this
appeal.
The principle is unsound. The deed recites on its face that
it is made under the order of the court. The parties must
either have obeyed the order of the court, or taken an appeal
and given a supersedeas bond in a sum so large that they were
probably unable to do it.
"In no instance within our knowledge," says the court, in
erwin v. Lowry, 7 how. 184, "has an appeal or writ of error
been dismissed on the assumption that a release of errors was
implied from the fact that money or property had changed
hands by. force of the judgment or decree. If the judgment is
reversed, it is the duty of the court to restore the parties to
their rights." That was a case where the appellant received
the money which by the decree he recovered of the appellee,
and is, therefore, a stronger case than the present, as his action
would seem to ratify the decree.
, About three years after this decree, appellants filed a petition
in the Circuit Court in the nature of a bill. of review to set it
aside. To this petition the appellees filed an answer, in which,
among other matters, they set out a copy of another deed made
by O'Hara and wife the day after (as they allege) Mrs. O'Hara
-became of age, and they rely on that deed here as a bar to the

appeal.

Oct. 1876.]

KERRISON, ASSIGNEE, V. STEWART ET AL.

155

It is sufficient now to say, as to that deed, that it is long

subsequent to the decree, and apart from it. Its validity and
force must stand or fall on its own merits, wherever and whenever they may be tried, in any issue made on them. It has
nothing to do with the appeal which, regards the errors of the
decree, and which the appellant has a right to have reversed.
When this is done, and she is placed where she ought to be in
that regard, the effect of the deed now under consideration may,
perhaps, be decided - on a supplemental bill, setting it up as
matter occurring since the commencement of the suit, or by the
appellees dismissing their present suit and relying on the title
acquired by that deed.
Another equally conclusive reason why we cannot consider
any other matters arising under the petition and answer is,
that there is no order, decree, or other action of the court on
them. The record closes with the bill and answer, the latter
filed May 23, 1874, and the present appeal allowed Aug. 4,
1874.
We, therefore, take no notice of this subsequent pleading,
but reverse the original decree, and remand the case to the
Circuit Court for such further peoceedings as to right and justice
Decree reversed.
may appertain.

KERRSOMN, ASSiGNEE, v. STEWART ET AL.
Where a trustee is invested with such powers and subjected to such olligations
that his beneficiaries are bound by what is done against him or by him, they
are not necessary parties to a suit against him by a stranger to defeat the
trust in 'whole or in part. In such case, he is in court on their behalf i and
they, though not parties, are concluded by the decree, unless it is impeached
for fraud or collusion between him and the adverse party.

APPFAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina.
Edwin L. Kerrison and Herman Leiding, of Charleston,
S. C., May 1, 1867, conveyed to Charles Kerrison, in trust,
the real estate in controversy in this suit, by deed, the material parts of which are as follows: -

