46

BEAVER V. TAYLOR ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

sustained. Terry presented an account for $25, on which he
claimed priority of payment; but, upon its disallowance, Hatch
became entitled to no more than his share upon a pro rata
distribution of that amount to all the creditors. So, too,
Hatch, upon the allowance of his claim, became entitled undei
the decree t6 a dividend of about $6,000; but, if it had been
disallowed, Terry would have received only his share of the
amount of the dividend upon a like pro rata distribution. If
Terry succeeds in this appeal, he can only recover from Hatch
what would have been distributed lo him in the court below, if
his exceptions had been there sustained. The aggregate of the
claims allowed, deducting that of Hatch, is about $350,000;
and of this amount Terry has but. $23,297. Upon a distribution of tha amount decreed to Hatch among the other creditors,
the dividend would be less than two per cent upon the ambunt
of the several claims, or but little more than $500 to Terry.
It is clear, therefore, that the amount ih dispute is less than
Appeal dismissed.
$2,000.

BEAvnER v. TAyLoR

ET AL.

1. If one of a series of propositions presented to a court as one request for a
charge to the jury is unsound, an exception to a refusal to charge the entire
series cannot be maintained.
2. An exception to the entire charge of the court, or, in gross, to a series of propositions therein contained, cannot be sustained, if any portion thus excepted
to is sound.
8. An exception to such portions of a charge as are variant from the requests
made by a party not pointing out the variances, cannot be sustained.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
This was ejectment brought by plaintiff in error, to recover
an undivided sixth part of the north,%west quarter of section
thirty-six, the north-east fractional quarter of section twenty:
seven, the south fractional half of section twenty-six, and the
north-east fractional quarter of section thirty-five, in township
seventeen south, range one west, situated in the county of
Alexander and State of fllinois, at or near the junction of thq.

Oct. 1876.]

1 BEAVERt v. TAYLOR ET AL.

Ohio and Mississippi Rivers. The case was tried before a jury,
wvho found the issue for the defendants. A motion for a new
trial was made; and thereupon defendants filed a stipulation,
that the verdict might be so modified as to show a verdict
for the plaintiff in fee-simple to the undivided sixth part of
north-east fractional quarter of section twenty-seven,'bnd that
judgment might be entered therefor non obstante veredicto.
Plaintiff refused to consent to said stipulation; and thereupon
the motion for a new trial was overruled, and judgment entered
for the defendants. It was admitted, on the trial, that the plaintiff at the time of the institution of the suit, July 17, 1854, and
at the time of the alleged entry of the defendants, was the
owner in fee of one undivided sixth part of the premises mentioned in the declaration, by title derived from Isabella F. Bond,
through Joseph B. Holmes, unless said title was barred or
divested by the evidence submitted on the part of the defendants; and that the defendants at the same time were the
owners in fee of the other five-sixths of said premises, and
exercising acts of ownership over the entire premises. The
title of defendants to the one-sixth claimed by the plaintiff is
based on a claim and color of title to, and seven successive
years' possession and payment of taxes upon, the said one-sixtli,
under sect. 1. of the act of the legislature of March 2, 1839,
which is as follows:"Every person in the actual possession of lands or tenements,
under claim and color of title, made in good faith, and who shall,
for seven successive years, continue in such possession, and shall
also, during said timej pay all taxes legally assessed on such lands
or tenements, shall be held and adjudged to be the legal owners of
said lands or tenements, to the extent and according to the purport
of his or her paper-title. All persons holding under such possession, by purchase, devise, or descent, before said seven years shall
have expired, and who shall continue such possession, and continue
to pay the taxes as aforesaid, so as to complete the possession and
payment of taxes for the termaforesaid, shall be entitled to the
benefit of this section." Rev. Stat. 1874, p. 674.
The defendants, for the purpose of showing claim and color
of title made in- good faith, introduced in evidence, without
objection, a deed from Achsah Bond, as guardian of said Isa-

BEAYER v. TAYLOR ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

bella F. Bond, to the Cairo City and Canal Company, of whom
the defendants were admitted to be trustees.
The plaintiff requested the court to- charge the jury as
follows : 1. It devolves upon the defendants, who rely upon this section
of law as a defence to the plaintiffs' action, to prove to the
satisfaction of the jury that they, the defendants, or those under
and through whom they claim color of title, have had the actual
possession of the tracts of land in question for seven successive
years prior to the seventeenth day of July, 1854, the date when
fhis action was commenced; that they have paid all taxes legally
assessed on the lands during the same seven years.
2. The good faith of the claim and color of title will be presumed, unless, from the evidence, it is made to appear otherwise.
If the jury shall find from the evidence that Taylor and Gilbert,
the defendants, in 1854, tendered to Craig, the husband -of
Isabella F. Bond, $2,200, in payment for his w'fe's interest in
the lands in controversy, that is a circumstance that may be
taken into consideration, in cbimection with the other evidence
in the case, ag tending to rebut the presumption. of good faith
of defendants under what they have produced as color of -title.
3. If, in this case, it shall appear from, the evidence that the
taxes for any one or more of -the seven successive years were
.paid by Miles A. Gilbert for his own benefit, the payment of
taxes cannot avail Taylor and Davis and those claiming under
them; the jury-are to determine, from all the evidence in the
case, whether all the taxes for said seven years were paid on
a'ccounfof Taylor and Davis, or whether for a portion of that
time they we.e paid on account of Miles A. Gilbert.
* 4.' To make out the actual possession of the lands in question,
it must appear from th6 evidence that the defendants, or those
under and through whom they claim, during the whole period of
seven successive years prior to the seventeenth day of July, 1854,
had possession adverse to the legal claim of Isabella F. Bond
and those claiming through her. During the whole of that
time their possession must have been visibly notorious and
exclusive; it must have been manifested by subh unequivocal
acts of dominion over the lands as would have given the owner
of the lands, on reasonable inquiry, constant notice that the

Oct. 1876.]

BtAYER

v. TAYLOR ET AL.

party or persons in possession were using and claiming the
lands exclusively as their own.
5. The defendants, to prevent a recovery in this case, must,
as to each tract of land in dispute, show, by a preponderance
of evidence, actual, visible, open, and notorious possession of
the particular tract as to which the jury is inquiring. Possession by defendants of premises not claimed by plaintiff will
not make out a defence as to any of the tracts in dispute, nor
will possession by defendants of one distinct tract of the several
tracts in controversy make out a defence as to any other tract
or tracts in dispute.
6. The law permits one tenant in common to possess, use,
and enjoy the lands owned by himself and co-tenant, without
prejudice to the rights of an absent co-tenant in common. The
first section of the limitation law of March 2, 1839, cannot
be successfully invoked as a defence to an act of ejectment
instituted by the tenant in common out of possession, unless
there is evidence to satisfy the jury that the defendant or
defendants, the co-tenant or co-tenants in common in possession, has or have been in the open, well-known, exclusive, and
adverse possession, claiming the .whole of the lands in question
for the full period of seven successive years prior to the commencement of such action. The payment of all the taxes
assessed on land or lands owned in common by one of the
co-tenants is not of itself evidence of an adverse possession
on the part of the party who so pays, or who has so paid, the
taxes, as against the co-tenant or co-tenants in common out-of
possession.
7. If in this case the jury are satisfied, from the evidence,
that Taylor and Davis, or their agents, up to the year 1850, did
no act or acts in and about their alleged possession of the lands
in question, except such acts as co-tenants in common had a
lawful right to do towards the improvement of said tracts of
land, or that they did such acts only as they were legally
authorized to do by virtue of the. charter to the Cairo City and
Canal Company and the deed of release from Achsah Bond,
the guardian of Isabella F. Bond, the plaintiff is entitlea to
recover to the extent as claimed in his declaration,.subject to
such rights in and over the lands in question as may be claimed
.VOT I1.

4

BEAVER v. TAYLOR ET AL.

[Sup.
Ct.
[

under said charter and the deed of release executed by the
guardian of said Isabella F. Bond.
8. The building of 'dykes, levees, and embankments, for the
security and preservation 'of the city of Cairo, and for the
security and preservation of said city and'land, and all improvements thereon, from all and every, inundation which could
possibly affect or injure said city or the improvements therein,
was authorizea by the first section of the act incorporating the
Cairo City and Canal Company, approved March 4, 1837; and
the mode of procuring a release ,of damages occasioned by such.
,building of dykes, levees, and embankments,, was provided for
by the same act. The deed of-release executed to said company
by'the guardian of Isabella F Bond, -ho, at the time, was
a. minor, was a sufficient authority to said company to warrant the'n in constructing dykes, levees, and embankments
over and across the lands belonginug to said minors but the
construction of such improvements was not, and is not, to be
taken of itself as evidence of a denial on the part of said company of the'legal title and right of posgession of said minor, and'
of those claiming through and under her, to the lands owned by
said minor over'and across which said improvements may have
been constructed.'
The court declined to so charge the jury on .either and all of
said points, as requested by the plain'tiff; and, instead thereof,,
charged and instructed them as follows: This suit is brought to recover one-sixth of certain tracts of
land in. Cairo. Beaver 'shows title from. the government
through Isabella F. Bond, who sold it to Holmes, and from
whom Bea~er bought it. Before Isabella F. Bond sold it to
Holmes, in 1852, her guardian., Achsah Bond, on the 22d of
May, 1837, reciting the act of the legislatuie passed March 4,
1837, empowering guardians to release the damages and interest
of their wards in lands which the Cairo City Company might
take for their use, sold the share, of Isabella -F.Bond t6 the
Cairo City and Canal Company.
This, deed, in the opinion of the court, does not in itself
,conv~ey fitle, as the authority conferred by the legislature did
n6f extend to the selling of the land. The plaintiff is therefore
entitled to recover, , unless'the defendants bring themselves

Oct. 1876.]

BEAVER v.

TAYLOR ET AL.

within the provisions of the first section of the act of the
legislature of March 2, 1839. By that section, although a
paper-title may be defective and fail to divert the title, yet if
the purchaser bought the land in good faith, supposing he had
a title, the deed he has got can be used as color of title; and if
he, under the claim of title, takes possession of the lands, and
continues in possession of- them for seven years, and pays the
taxes on them for the same time, then he is as much the owner
of the lands as if his paper-title was perfect.
The court instructs the jury that the deed from Achsah Bond
is color of title, within the meaning of the statute, to one-sixth
par t of the land in controversy. Good faith in buying the
property, possession of it for seven years, and payment of taxes
during that period, must concur, in order to bring the defendant.
within the terms of the statute.
Good faith is presumed in the absence of proof to the contrary; and where there is no actual fraud and -noproof showing
that the color of title was acquired in bad faith, which means
in or by fraud, then the title was acquired in good faith. On
the question of the payment of taxes, the law is, that the taxes
must be paid for the benefit of the party claiming the title.
Gilbert bought these lands in his own name at a tax sale in
1843 and 1845, as he swears, for the benefit of the company,
and with their money; for the purpose of getting rid of an old
tax-title, being at the time the general agent of the company.
The taxes on the land for 1846 and 1847 were paid in the
name of Gilbert, but, as he testifies, with the funds of the
company and for their benefit. If the jury believe this testimony is true, then it was a good 'payment of taxes by the
company for those years; and as to the payment of taxes for
the remainder "f the seven years, there is no question but what
tey were paid by the company.
In order to defeat the plaintiff's title, the defendants must
have had actual possession of the land; but actual possession,
in the meaning of the statute, does not require a residence on
the lands, nor their ehclosure by a fence. If the lands were
occupied in such a manner by the defendants as to convey a
constant notice to the plaintiff, or those under whom he derives
title, that they were claimed adversely to him or them, theii

BEAVER v. TAYLOR ET AL.

[Slip. 0t.

they were, in the-sense of the limitation law, in the actual
possession of the defendants. In other words, if Isabella F.
Bond; or the party claiming under her, could, by visiting the
lands, readily see that they 'werein the actual occupation of the
defendants, the statute is complied with. The adverse occupation must have continued for the full period of seven years
before the suit was commenced, in order to bar the plaintiff.
It must have been, during all this period, a continuous occupation, and also an undivided one. In this case, the possession
by the State of the, ten .acres now the possession by heirs of
Mackenzie does not affect the rights of the parties. But if
Galtin was in possession adversely to the defendants, then their
possession is not in undivided one to the north-east fractional
quarter of section five, on which Galtin had his possession.
But if he was in possession urder the defendants, or if -Gray
and Simmons, from whom he bought, were in possession under
them, then his possession is consistent vithi the rights of the
defendantsi and he had no interest adverse to them; but his
possession was the possession of the defendants. :
There is no arbitrary rule in relation to what constitutes,
under the law, actual possession. -There must always be such
a manifestation on the part of the claimant as to convey notice
to the holder of the legal title that he is claiming adversely, to
his or her interest. The way in which this is done may be very
.different in the case of a tract of land for a farm, or tracts of
land purchased for the purpose of being laid out into city lots.
-The legislature of Illinois inc6rporated in 1837 the Cairo
City and Canal iCompany, and authorized them to purchase the
"whole of toin'ship seventeen, and to lay the whole, or such parts
of it as they saw fit, into city lots. If the jury believe from the
evidence that the cofipany did purchase the tracts of land in
controversy (all being in~ township seventeen) for purposes
authorized by the statute; and that during the period of seven
years, before this suit was begun, the defendants constrticted
leyees and einbankments for the purpose not only of preserving
the then city of Cairo from inundation, but also these lands, with
a design of ultimately incorporating them into the city ; and that
these levees and embankments enclosed or crossed parts of the
lands, so that the legal owner of the interest in controversy

Oct. 1876.]

-

BEAVER v. TAYLOR ET AL.

could readily see that they were occupied by the defendants;
and timber was cut upon them in such manner by the defendants, or those having permission from them, as to convey
notice to the owner of the adverse interest, - then the defendants had such possession under color of title as will protect
them.
If, on the contrary, the levees and embankments were constructed for the sole purpose of protecting the then city of
Cairo, and the cutting of the timber was done in such a manner
that the party holding the legal title could not see that it was
done, then the defendants are not protected. If the embankments were made to protect these lands, as well as what was
then known as the city of Cairo, and they run across a part of'
them, and all the lands were designed for a common purpose,
then the occupation by the levees of a part of the lands was
the occupation of the whole.
The rights of a tenant in common are not involved in this
controversy. If the defendants believed that they purchased
the interest of Isabella F. Bond, and occupied the premises
adversely to her interest, they are protected, notwithstanding the
interest was undivided, they owning the remaining five-sixths.
The construction of levees by the Illinois Central Railroad
before the suit was commenced, under contract with -the
defendants, serves the same purpose as if they were constructed
by the defendant$.
The plaintiff is entitled to recover the one-sixth of north-east
fractional quarter of twenty-seven, there being no disclaimer
of title by the defendants, unless the same was occupied by the
defendants adversely for seven years prior to the bringing of
this s6it, it making no difference under the state of the pleadings whether the land has been washed away by the Mississippi
River or not.
The plaintiff at the time excepted to .the refusal of the court
to charge the jury on the several points of law as by him
requested, and also excepted at the time to so much of the
charge ;f the court " given, as in conflict with and variant
from the several propositions urged and submitted as the law
by and on behalf of the plaintiff. The jury found that defendants were in possession of the premises and paid the taxes for

BEAVER v.

TAYLOR ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

seven successive years, as required by the statute; and the only
questions in the case arise upon the charge of the court to the
jury, and its refusal to give tht, instructions, as asked.
Submitted on printed argimnent by Mr. Lyman, Trumbull
for
the defendants in -error. No counsel appeared for the plaintiff
in error.
. JUSTICE I1,UT delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was ejectment to recover an undivided interest
in certain lands situate in Cairo, Ill. The defene was actual
possession under claim and color of title for seven successive
years, and payment during, hat period of al. taxes legally assessed
upon the premises claimed. Rev: Stat. of Ill., .1874, p. 674.
Evidence was given sustaining the defence, and a verdict by
the jury was rendered in favor of the defendants.
Before the case was submitted to the. jury, the plaintiff
r.equested the court to charge, as set- forth by him, -in eight
several propositions. The court declined to charge as requested,
but charged in its own language, aiid fully, ulon the case as
presented by- the evidence.
The pla-intiff excepted to the refusal of the court, and excepted
also "to so much of -the charge of the court as given, as was in
conflict with and variant from ihe several propositions" prpsented by him.
It is upon this presentation of the case that this court is
asked to reverse the judgment entered upon the verdict.
1. The' entire series of propogitions "was presented as 'one
request; and, if any one proposition was unsound, an exception
to a refusal to charge the series cannot be inaintained. 11 N. Y.
416; 6 id. 233; 7 id. 236. All of the propositions presented
were not sound; notably the fifth request could not be complied
with.
2. If the entire charge of the court is excepted'to, or,a series
of propositions contained in it is excepted to in gross, and any
portion thus excepted to is -sound, the exception cannot be sustained. Bogers v, The Mlarshal, 1 Wall. 644; Ifarvey v. Tyler
2 id. 328; 5 Denio,.213.; Jones v. Osgood,2 Seld. 233; Caldwell
v. iAurphy, 111X.Y. 416,; Walsh v. Ke lly, 40id. 556. Thecharge
before us was confessedly sound'in the most of its points.
M

-

Oct. 1876.]

GRYmEs v. SANDERS ET AL.

8. An exception to such portions of a charge as are variant
from the requests made'by a party, not pointing out the variances, cannot be sustained. 40 N. Y. 556; 45 id. 129; 47 id.
570. It is not the duty of a judge at the circuit court, or of an
appellate court, to analyze and compare the requests and the
charge, to discover what are the portions thus excepted to. One
object of an exception is to call the attention of the circuit judge
to the precise point as to which it is supposed he has erred, that
he may then and there consider it, and give new and different
instructions to the jury, if in his judgment it should be proper
to ao so. Ayrault v. The Pacific Bank, 47 N. Y. 576. An
exception in the form we are considering entirely defeats that
object.
For these three reasons, the bill of exceptions fails to present
any point that we can consider.
We are also of the opinion, upon an examination of the
record, that the case was well submitted to the jury, and that
the plaintiff has no just ground of complaint.
Judgment affirmed.

GRY3MES v. SANDERS ET AL.
1. A mistake as to a matter of fact, to warrant relief in equity, must be material;
and the fact must be such that it animated and. controlled the conduct of the
party. It must go to the essence of the object in view, and not be merely
incidental. The court must be satisfied that but for the mistake the complainant would not have assumed the obligation from which he seeks to be
relieved.
2. Mistake, to be available in equity, must not have arisen from negligence
where the means of knowledge were easily accessible. The party complaining must Have exercised at least the degree of diligence "which may
be fairly expected from a reasonable person."
3. Where a party desires to rescind, upon the ground of mistake or fraud, he
must, upon the discovery of the facts, at once announce his purpose, and
adhere to it. If he be silent, and continue to treatthe property as his own,
he will be held to have waived the objection; and will be as conclusively
bound by the contract, as if the mistake or fraud had not occurred. This
applies peculiarly to speculative property, which is liable to large and costant fluctuations in value.
4. A coprt of equity is always reluctant to rescind, unless the parties can be put
back in statu quo. If this cannot be done, it will give such relief only where
the clearest and strongest equity imperatively demands it.

