Oct. 1876.]

SHAW V. UNITED STATES.

action of the judge, the plaintiffs can take no step. . . . They
can neither issue execution on the judgment, nor reverse the
proceedings by writ of error." This is in accordance with the
settled practice in Louisiana, and is decisive of this case. Stark
v. Burke, 9 La. Ann. 345 ; Sprigg v. Wells, 5 Mart. N. s. 105 ;
Ex parte Nicholass, 4 Rob. 53; M ech. & Tr. Bank IV. 0. v.
Walter, 7 id. 451; Succession of Arbridge, 1 La. Ann. 207;
Me Willie v. Perkins, 20 id. 169. As only final judgments
can be re-examined here upon writs of error, the judgment
to be "rendered," which the statute refers to, must be the
final judgment. That judgment is not rendered in Louisiana
until it is signed by the judge. In other States, the rule in this
respect may be different; and in Silsby v. Foote, 20 How. 295,
we said, "The time to be taken as when the judgment or decree
may be said to be rendered or passed may admit of some latitude, and may depend somewhat upon the usage and practice
of the particular court." But this being a judgment in Louisiana, and not having been signed until after May 1, was not
rendered, according to the practice in that State, before that
date; and consequently the writ must be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.

SHAW v. UNITED STATES.
Where a steamer, lying at the time at the wharf at St. Louis, was taken into the
service of the United States by a quartermaster of the United States, for a
trip to different points on the Mississippi River, the compensation for the service required being stated at the time to the captain, and no objection being
made to the service or compensation, and the service was rendered, the possession, command, and management of the steamer being retained by its owner, Held, that the United States were charterers of the steamer upon a contract
of affreightment, and that they were not liable, under such a contract, to the
owner for the value of the steamer, though she was destroyed by fire whilst
returning from the trip, without his fault.

from the Court of Claims.
The court below found the facts as follows: That on the seventeenth day of September, 1863, the steamboat "Robert Campbell, Jr.," of which the claimant was and
continued to be the sole owner, when lying at the wharf in thd
APPEAL

-236

SHAW V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

port of St. Louis, Mo., fully manned, equipped, and furnished
for business on the Mississippi River, was impressed into the
military service of the United States by Captain Charles Parsons, assistant-quartermaster of the United States army, for
especial duty between MNemphis and Vicksburg, loaded with
army stores and troops, and ordered by said Parsons to proceed down the Mississippi River to Memphis, Tenn., and there
report to Captain J. V. Lewis, assistant-quartermaster. The
orders stated the terms on which the boat was employed.
The boat left Sf. Louis on said service about the 25th of that
month, officered and manned by officers and men employed by
the claimant.
While in the said service of the government she was, on the
28th of September, 1863, consumed by fire, and became a total
loss to the claimant, without any fault or negligence on his part,
or that of her officers or crew.
In October, 1863, the account of the United States with said
boat, for her use and service as a transport from Sept. 17 to
Sept. 28, was allowed and paid by Brigadier-Geneial Robert
Allen, quartermaster United States army.
In February, 1864, the claimant submitted to the third auditor of th'e treasury his claim for $70,000 against the United
States, for the value of said boat at the time she was taken into
the service of the government.
At the same time, he claimed a balance of $859.91, as due
him on account of stores lost with the boat when she was consumed, and which he averred had been furnished by the officers
of the boat for the subsistence of the crew.
At the time of her loss she was worth $70,000, and was
insured for $25,000, by policies for $5,000, in each of the following companies; namely, the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company, the Globe Mutual Insurance Company, the United States
Insurance Company, the Eureka Insurance Company, and the
Phoenix Insurance Company. In each policy, except that of
the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company, the boat was valued
at $38,000; and in all of said policies there was a limitation of
$30,000, as the total amount -which was allowed to be insured
on the boat.
In the policies issued by the Atlantic- Mutual and United

Oct. 1876.]

SHAW V. UNITED

STATES.

States companies, the claimant was insured; but the policies
stipulated that the loss, if any, should be paid to Robert Campbell; and the losses under those policies - viz., $5,000 under
each - were paid to said Campbell.
In the policy issued by the Eureka the claimant was insured;
but the policy stipulated that the loss, if any, should be paid to
Robert Campbell & Co. ; and the loss was so paid.
In the Phcenix and Globe policies the claimant was insured,
and the losses thereunder were paid to him.
On the 25th of May, 1864, the third auditor rendered the
following award in favor of the claimant: Award _N'o.
32. - Second Section of the Act of 3d 7arch, 1849.
" TREASURY DEPARTMENT,

May 25, 1864.
"In pursuance of an act of Congress approved 3d of March,
1849, entitled 'An Act to provide for the payment of horses and
other property lost or destroyed in the military service of the
United States,' as amended and construed by the fifth section of the
act of March 3, 1863, it is adjudged by me, that there is due from
the United States to John S. Shaw, for the steamboat 'Robert
Campbell, Jr.,' of St. Louis, Mo., biirned on the Mississippi River,
near Milliken's Bend, on the twenty-eighth day of September, 1863,
while in the military service of the United States, under impressment, the sum of fifty-seven thousand dollars ($57,00), less the sum
of twenty-five thousand dollars received by him as insurance on the
same, leaving payable by the United States the sum of thirty-two
thousand dollars ($32,000).
"To be paid to John S. Shaw, St. Louis, Mo.
" R. J. ATKINsox, Third Auditor."
"THIRD AUDITOR'S OFFICE,

On the 9th of June, 1864, the amount of said award was paid
to the claimant.
In 1869, the claimant made an application to the third auditor
to review the award, and allow the further sum of $13,859.90;
which that officer refused to do: and his decision in that regard
was concurred in by the second comptroller.

That sum was,

in the application, made up of the above-mentioned balance,
claimed as due him on account of stores lost with the boat when
she was consumed; and of $13,000, on account of the value
of the boat, - which latter claim was made by estimating .the

238

SHAW V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

boat's value at $70,000, and allowing thereon $25,000 insurance
money paid the claimant, and $32,000 paid him by the government as aforesaid, leaving $13,000 additional on the value
claimed to be due to him.
The claimant's amended petition, praying for a recovery of
the said sum of $25,000, for the use and benefit of said insurance
companies, was, with the leave of the court, filed Aug. 26, 1873.
The court found as conclusions of law, 1. That, on the facts therein, the "Robert Campbell, Jr.,"
wiaen'destroyed by fire, was employed by the petitioner in the
performance of a contract of affreightment, then subsisting
between him and the United States; and they are not liable
for her value.
2. That the claim of the petitioner against the United States,
submitted by him to the third auditor, was not within the
jurisdiction or authority of said officer, under the statute of
3d March, 1849; and his action thereon imposed no liability on
the. United States, and none has been assumed by them.
Judgment was rendered accordingly; and the claimant appealed to this court.
Argued by Ji-. Joseph Casey for the appellant.
The steamboat was in the military service of the United
States by " impressment," and, having been destroyed by inevitable accident, without fault or neglect of the owner, the case
is clearly within the act- of March 3, 1849, and March 3, 1863.
The fact of impressment and use creates an obligation to pay,
from whicl an implied contract arises. Uniued ,States v. Bussell, 13 Wall. 623.
111r. Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the appellee.
The claimant having remained in the possession, navigation,
and command of his vessel, the arrangement was, in contemplation of law, a: mere affreightment, sounding in a contract, nd
not a demise. Reed v. United States, 11 Wall. 600; United
States v. Bjssell, 13 id. 623.
Being a contractor for the use of his vessel as a transport,
neither the claimant nor his property was "in the military service of the United States," within the meaning of the acts of
March 3, 1849 (9 Stat. 415), and March 3, 1863 (12 id. 743).
Guttman's Case, 9 Ct. of C1. 60.

Oct. 1876.]

SHAW V.

UNITED STATES.

MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

If we could import into the findings of the court the facts
stated in its opinion and in the brief of appellant's counsel, this
case would be presented for our consideration with much greater
completeness than at present. It would then clearly appear,
that what is termed an impressment of the vessel of the claimant into the military service of the United States was only a
notice to its captain from the assistant-quartermaster at St.
Louis that the government would require its service for a trip
to Memphis, Vicksburg, and other points, accompanied with
a statement of the per diem compensation which would be
allowed for its use, and for the subsistence of the men in addition to their wages, and fuel for the vessel; to which notice and
service no objection was made by the captain or the claimant.
It would also appear; that the claimant entered upon the service with alacrity, and that, in conformity with the terms
designated as compensation, his account was rendered to the
United States, and paid. Under these circumstances, the transaction could only be treated as a voluritary arrangement, notwithstanding the peremptory tone on the part of the assistant
quartermaster-general, with which the negotiation with the captain was opened.
In Beed v. United States, reported in the 11th of Wallace, the same military officer at St. Louis, the assistant-quartermaster, in June, 1865, applied to the owners of another
steamer, to transport supplies from that port to Fort Berthold,
on the Missouri; but they declined the service, on account of
the lateness of the season. He then ordered them to prepare
for the trip, informing them, that, in case of refusal, the vessel
would be impressed. They protested; but, under the orders
given, put the boat in readiness, received the cargo, and performed the service required. With the order to prepare for
the trip, the assistant-quartermaster, as in this case, fixed the
per diem compensation for the use of the vessel, which appears
to have been satisfactory to the owners; for it was received
by them without objection. Upon this state of facts the court
held, that, though the owners originally objected to the service,
they in fact rendered it'as matter of contract upon the compensation fixed by the assistant-quartermaster; and that the vessel

SHAW V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup.,Ct.

having grounded on its return trip, and been destroyed whilst
thus grounded by an ice freshet, no liability for its value
attached to the United States, under the second section of
the act of 1849 (9 Stat. 414), or the fifth section of the
amendatory act of 1863 (12 id. 743). The fact that the steamer
remained, in performing the trip required, under the control
and management of its owners, was considered as conclusive
that it.was not in the service of the United- States, within the
meaning of those acts; and that a vessel could only be regarded
as in stich service when let to the government, and the owners
had- parted with its possession, command, -and management.
So long as the ow'ners retained the possession, command, and
management of the steamer, the United States were only charterers of the same upon a contract of affreightment, and liable
as such, and wqre not clothed with the character or responsibiliy of ownership. And it was also held. that the adjudication
of The third auditor in allowing, in supposed conformity with
the acts mentioned, for the value of the vessel lost, could not
have any influence upon the decision of the court.
The facts stated in the opinion of- the Court of Claims, and
by the appellant's counsel in his brief, bring the present case
fully within' the reasoning and authority of Reed v. United
States. And although the findings in the record are defective
in not stating the particulars of the contract, and it is found
that the steamer was impressed into the military service, yet it
distinctly appears that the terms upon which the vessel would
be employed were stated at the tinie by the assistant-quartermaster, and that the vessel, whilst performing its service, was
manned by officers and men engaged by the claimant, - that is,
that the vessel was in his possession and under his command
and management, and not in the possession or under the command and management of the United States; and that his
account with the government for its use and service as a transport, until its destruction by fire, was allowed and paid. We
must therefore hold, as was held in the case cited, that whatever the force or coercion may have been which attended the
original impressment, as it is termed, the transaction ultimately
ended in a contract of affreightment, Uron the terms stated by
the assistant-quartermaster. As c(harte-ers of the vessel under

Oct. 1876.]

SCHACKER V. HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO.

241

such a contract, the United States were not liable to the claimant for its loss, and, of course, could not be to the insurance
companies which were subrogated to his rights. Macardierv.
The Chesapeake Insurance Co., 8 Cranch, 39; The Schooner
Volunteer, 1 Sumn. 551; The Brig Spartan, 1 Ware, 153;
_Donohue v. Kittel, 1 Cliff. 138.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER dissented.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG did not take part in the decision.

SCHACKER

v.

HARTFORD FIRE INSURANCE

COMPANY.

The doctrine in Lee v. Watson, 1 Wall. 837, that, "in an action upon a moneydemand, where the general issue is pleaded, the matter in dispute is the debt
claimed, and its amount, as stated in the body of the declaration, and not
merely the damages alleged or the prayer for judgment at its conclusion must
be considered in determining whether this court can take jurisdiction," affirmed
and applied to the present case.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. W. T. Burgess for
the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. George 0. Ide for the defendant in error.

MR. C11= JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
On opening this record, we find that the action below was
assumpsit upon a policy of insurance for $1,400.
There
are two counts in the declaration, but they are both upon
the same cause of action; and although the damages, both in
the writ and declaration, are laid at $3,000, it is apparent
from the whole record that there could not be a recovery in
any event for more than $1,400 and interest from July 14,
1873.
Our jurisdiction, when this writ issued, was limited incases
of this character to those in which the "matter in dispute,
exclusive 'of costs, exceeds the sum or value of $2,000."
Rev. Stat., sect. 692. Now, in the same class of cases, where
voi. IN.

16

