Oct. 1876.]

DALTON V. JENNINGS.

which the act conferred, and was not the creation of a new
corporation,- a conclusion which accords with our judgment.
It follows, from the views we have expressed, that the remedy of the plaintiff was not by a suit in equity, but by an
action at law against the present corporation upon the coupons;
and, if judgment be recovered thereon and be not paid, then by
mandamus upon its officers to compel t'hem to raise the requisite funds for its payment in the manner prescribed by its
charter.
Decree affirmed, without prejudice to the plaintiff's right to
proceed at law.
NoTE. - Jones v. Pensacold, appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Florida, was argued at the same time and by the
same counsel ai the preceding case.
MR. Jbatric FiErLD delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is similar in all essential particulars to that of Broughton v.Pensacola;
and, upon the authority of the decision therein rendered, the decree is affirmed,
without prejudice to the plaintiff's right to proceed at law.

DALTON v. JENNINGS.
Letters-patent No. 124,340, issued to John Dalton, March 5, 1872, for "an alleged

new and useful improvement in ladies' hair-nets," are void, because his specification and claim precisely and accurately describe various fabrics which

hrd been made and were in public use for a long time previous to his application.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This was a bill filed for an account, -and for an injunction
restraining the defendant from infringing Dalton's letters
patent. Upon the final hearing of the cause the court below
dismissed the bill, and Dalton appealed here.
Mr. . JVansantvoord for the appellant.
Mr. Arthur v. Briesen for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

On the fifth day of March, 1872, there was issued to the

DALTON V. JENNINGS.

[Sup. Ct.

complainant below, and appellant here, John Dalton, a patent,
No. 124,340, for a new and useful improvement in ladies' hairnets, in which he claims as new "a head or hair net composed
of a main set of meshes fabricated of coarse thread, combined
with an auxiliary set or sets of meshes fabricated of fine thread,
substantially as described." In his specification, he says that
the nets in use before his invention were composed of coarse
threads so far apart that the meshes or interstices were too
large and permitted the hair to protrude through them, and
that his invention consists in combining with these coarse
threads and larger spaces a.finer thread crossing these spaces
as often as is necessary to confine the hair, which thread,
from its fineness, is mainly invisible. He gives directions for
the use of. this finer thread in making the meshes, in which
there is nothing he claims to be new. His claim is not for the
process of making the net, but for the new product made in the
manner prescribed.
.The defendant relies on want of. novelty, produces some
fifteen or sixteen specimens of fabrics and designs which he
alleges to be anticipations of plaintiff's production, and refers
to as many persons who were, making or selling fabrics which
are identical with that patented by plaintiff.
If the netting patented by appellant had been produced by
him for the first time, it would be difficult to find in it or in
the process by which it is made any thing deserving the name
of invention within the meaning, of the patent law. If the
spaces between the threads of the netting were too large,
thereby permitting the escape of the hair, there is nothing new
in the idea that making them smaller would remedy the evil.
If the size of the threads then in use was too large for beauty,
neither discovery nor invention were necessary to reduce it.
There is nothing new in the number of these threads, in their
size, nor in the manner in which they are crossed and connected. Where, then, is the invention? Is it in the fact
that some of the threads are coarser and some of finer size?
This can hardly be invention, since gauze and netting have
been made with threads or cords of unequal size time out of
mind, and- with varying and equal or unequal spaces between
them.

Oct. 1876.]

DALTON V. JENNINGS.

Turning from this view of the subject, the evidence and the
exhibits produced by defendant show a number of fabrics long
in use, in which the meshes are made by larger cords or threads
crossing each other at various angles, with smaller threads
filling up the space and making the interstices smaller.
Defendant's exhibit No. 16 is a piece of lace with spaces
separated and bounded by a larger thread or cord, which are
subdivided into much smaller spaces by a smaller thread, that
is proved to be fifteen years old, and may have been fifty.
Exhibit No. 12 is a tidy with very large cords, like floss, with
spaces between each, and across these spaces diagonally are
four threads dividing that space into four smaller ones. It is
proved that from this Dalton tried to get a workman to get up
a pattern for his hair-nets.
Exhibit No. 11 is a mosquito bar, long in use, with large
cords crossing each other about an inch or more apart, and
smaller threads crossing this space each way, so as to make the
interstices too small for the mosquito to get, through, just as
Dalton's net prevents the hair from escaping. It is the same
device to remedy the same defect: only one is for mosquitoes and
the other for hair.
Exhibit No. 6 is a hair-net consisting of larger cords crossing
each other at equal distance§, with finer threads passing over
or around them, and filling up the space so as to reduce the
size of the interstices. This was used and sold openly in New
York in 1871.
Exhibit No. 2 is a hair-net made twenty years ago, in which
the larger cords are knotted together at their crossing at regular intervals, and smaller threads between, so as to make the
meshes smaller. We can see in this case no difference between
this and exhibit of- plsintiff, unless it be in the shape of the
spaces large and small, and the manner in which the threads
are connected. Neither of these is claimed by appellant as any
part of his invention or as" new, for he says this is a matter
well known to lace-imakers.
In the lace, in the' mosquito bar, in the tidy, the fabric
presents in each case the precise arrangement described in the
plaintiff's patent. These have been long in use, and are well
known.
VOL. 111.

18

-

WINDSOR V. 1fOVEIGH.

[Sup. Ct.

In exhibits Nos. 2 and 6 we have the same fabric as appellant's, applied to the same use. It is impossible to call the
hair-net or netting, for which appellant claims a patent, a new
invention, or any invention of his.
Decree affirmed.

WINDSOR V. MOVEIGH.
1. A sentence of a-court, pronounced against a party without hearing him, or
giving him an opportunity to be heard, is not a judicial determination of his
rights, and is not entitled to respect in any other tribunal.
2. The jurisdiction acquired by the seizure of property, in a proceeding in rem for
its condemnation for alleged forfeiture, is not to pass upon the question of
forfeiture absolutely, but to pass upon that question after opportunity has
been afforded to its-owner And parties interested to appear and be heard upon
the charges for which the forfeiture is claimed. To that end, some notification of the proceedings, beyond that arising from the seizure, prestcribing the
time within which the appearance must be made, is essential.
8. In proceedings before the District Court, in a confiscation case, monition and
notice were issued and published; but the appearance of the owner, for which
they called, when made, was stricken out, his right to appear being denied
by the court.- Held, that the subsequent sentence of confiscation of his property was as inoperative upon his rights. as though no monition or notice had
ever been issued. The legal effect7 of striking out his appearance was to
recall the monition arid notice as to him.
4. The doctrine, that where a court has once acquired jurisdiction it has a right
to decide every question which arises in the cause, and its judgment, however erroneous, cannot be collaterally assailed, is only correct when the court
proceeds, after acquiring jurisdiction of the cause, according to the established modes governing the class to which the case belongs, and does not
transcend, in the extent or character of its judgment, the law which is applicable to it.

ERROR to the Corporation Court of the city of Alexandria, Va.
Ejectment for a tract of land situate in the city of Alexandria, Va. Finding and judgment for the plaintiff. The
defendant sued out this writ of error. The facts are stated in
the opinion of the court.
Argued by Mr.:S. I. Beach, for the plaintiff in error, and
by JMr. Philip-Phillipsand Mr.John Howard, contra.
MR. JuSTICE FmLD delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of ejectment to recover certain real

