COCKLE ET AL. V.

FLACK ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

As to the objection that Mrs. Gaines's interest in the judgment had been attached, assigned, and sold, that is nothing to
these defendants. Until the judgment is paid or satisfied, they
are liable. Until they are garnished or enjoined, they have no
defence. The equitable owners of the judgment have a right
to use Mrs. Gaines's name as the judgment plaintiff to procure judgment against the sureties, and probably are pursuing
this remedy. If, after judgment, when their liability is decided,
or if they admit it and are ready to pay, they can easily protect themselves by a bill of interpleader, by payment into court,
or by some other appropriate remedy; but, while contesting
their liability to anybody on the bond, they have no right to
interfere am ng those who are claiming the benefit of the judgment, - a judgment which is not against them, and theliability
to pay which they deny.
When that disputed liability is affirmed, the court will, if
requested, find means to protect them from paying it more
than once.
Judgment affirmed.

COCKL:E ET AL. v. FLACK ET AT,.
1. Where a commission-merchant, in Baltimore, advanced to a pork-packer, in
Peoria, $100,000, for which he was to receive interest at the rate of ten per
cint per annum, and a fixed coinmission for the sale of the product, to be
paid whether it was sold by the commission-merchant or not, it was properly left to the jury to decide on all the facts whether or not the commissions
were a cover for usury, or were an honest contract for commission business,
in connection with use of money.
2. The expresragreement of ten per cent is not usurious, because lawful in Illinois, though not so in Maryland. Andrews v. Pond, 13 Pet. 65, reaffirmed.

ERR oR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
Mr. Robert G. Ingersollfor the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. S. T. Wallis, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiffs in error, were engaged in the business of packing
pork in Peoria, -Ill., and The defendants were commission-merchants at Baltimore, in the fall of 1872, when the contract was

Oct. 1876.]

CocKE ET AL. V. FLACK ET AL.

made which is the foundation of this suit. There had been
transactions between the parties the previous year in the line
of their business, and, with reference to the packing business of
the approaching season, this agreement was made by letter.
The substance of it is, that defendants should advance to plaintiffs, as i't was needed, the sum of $100,000, which they were to
invest in the hog product, at the rate of eighty per cent of the
money so advanced, and twenty per cent of the money put into
the purchase by plaintiffs. Defendants were to have interest
on the money advanced at the rate of ten per cent per annum.
The product was to be shipped to them for sale, and they were
to have two and a half per cent commission on the amount,
if sold within sixty days, and one per cent commission for every
thirty days it was carried thereafter. The contract gave to
plaintiffs the right to sell for .themselves, without sending to
defendants, but the latter were to have their commissions all
the same.
When the product had all been sold out and an account
rendered, a balance was found to be due defendants, for which
they brought this suit, and recovered a judgment-of $7,054.48.
It appears by the bill of exceptions that this balance was
mainly if not wholly made up of the commissions charged on
sales not made by defendants, of products which never came to
their possession; and the recovery was resisted on the sole
ground that these commissions were a device to cover usurious
interest.
The charge of the court to the jury on this point was to the
effect that the transaction was not necessarily usurious; that
defendants, being engaged in the commission business, which
required the use of money, might loan their money at lawful
rates of interest to such parties and on such terms that it would
bring to them also the business which would grow out of the
investment of it; that, if the contract was made onli with the
honest purpose- of securing, in addition to interest, the profits
incidental to handling the product as commission-merchants, it
*as not usurious; that, on the other hand, such a contract might
be used as a mere evasive device to cover usurious interest, and
it left it to the jury to say from all the circumstances whether
this were so.

COCKLE ET AL.

v.

FLACK ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

There can be no question, that, on the general doctrine as to
the line which marks the division between an honest transaction
and a usurious cover, the charge of the court was correct; and
that it is in this class of cases the province of the jury, in jury
trials, and of the chancellor, in suits in equity, to determine, on
a full consideration of all the facts, whether it be the one or the
other.
But counsel for plaintiffs argue, that as to these commissions,
which defendants never earned by sale of the property or by
handling it, and as to which they were put to no cost or inconvenience, there can be no other consideration but the use of the
money, and they are necessarily usurious.
It must be confessed that the argument has much force. But
we are of opinion that it is not so conclusive that the court ought
to have held as matter of law that it was usury.
It is to be considered that defendants were engaged in a
business which was legitimate, and in which both custom and
sound principle authorized the joint use of their money and
their personal service, increased in value by their character for
integrity and experience. To both these sources they looked
for their profits, and they were necessarily united.
It was a necessit of their trade, and it was lawful for them,
while loaning their money at a specified rate of interest, to
stipulate with the parties to whom it was loaned for the incidental
advantages of acting as commission-merchants for the sale of
the property in which. the money was to be invested by the
borrower. They had the right also to require, as a condition of
the loan, that it should be invested in such property as would
require their services in selling and handling it. All this is
admitted.
We see no reason why the parties could not go a step further,
and stipulate, that if for any reason operating in the interest of
the borrower he should prefer tAobecome his own broker or
commission-merchant, or to sell at home, he should pay the
commission which the other had a right to contract for and
receive. Like the port pilot, and other instances, they were
ready and willing to perform. They had a place of business,
clerks, and their own time and skill ready to devote to the
plainiffs' butsiness. In that business they had a large pecuniary

Oct. 1876.]

WISWALL ET AL. V. CAMPBELL ET AL.

347

interest. They had loaned their money without requiring any
other security than the obligation of the other party, except
that which might arise from the property coming to thbir hands.
To make this property a sufficient security, the contract required
of the plaintiffs that they should invest in the same property
twenty dollars of their own money to every eighty dollars
borrowed of defendants. The relinquishment of this right to
control the sale of the property was a good considerationfor the
commissions which they would have made if they had sold it.
While it was possible to make such a transaction a mere
cover for usury, it was at the same time possible that the contract was a fair one, in aid of defendants' business, - a business
in which they were actually and largely engaged, and in which
lending money was the mere incident and not the main pursuit.
It was, therefore, properly left to the jury to say whether,
under all the circumstances, it was or was not a usurious transaction, under instruction to which we can see no objection.
We do not think the express reservation of ten per cent
interest makes the contract usurious because the law of Maryland forbids more than six. The contract was quite as much
an Illinois contract, where ten per cent is lawful, as a Maryland
contract, and the former is the law of the forum. The ruling
of the court below was in accord with what this court had held
Judgment affirmed.
in Andrews v. Pond, 13 Pet. 65.

WISWALL ET AL.

V. CA-XPBELL ET AL.,

ASSIGNEES.

This court has no jurisdiction to review a judgment of the Circuit Court, rendered
in a proceeding upon an appeal from an order of the District Court, rejecting
the claim of a supposed creditor against the estate of a bankrupt.

to dismiss a writ of error to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Illinois.
.111r. Lawrence Proudfoot in support of the motion.
Mr. John H. Thompson in opposition thereto.
MOTION

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This writ of error brings here a record of the Circuit Court

