Oct. 1876.]

SHERLOCK ET AL. V. ALLING, AD-M1INISTRATOR.

99

subrogated to his rights; whereas, the plaintiffs have delayed
this suit until all claim against the maker is lost by prescription; and that it is no answer to this defence to say that the
maker was insolvent when the note became due, as he may have
since become abundantly able to pay.
There is much plausibility in this position; but a careful
examination of the dates shows that the note was not prescribed
on the 5th of January, 1870, when the plaintiffs made a legal
demand on the defendant by instituting this action. Less than
ten years had then elapsed since the maturity of the note, and,
deducting the period during which the war continued, according
to the rule adopted in the case of The Protector,12 Wall. 700,
it will appear that the time of prescription of five years had not
elapsed. The defendant, by paying the note at that time, could
have been subrogated to the rights of the plaintiffs, and maintained suit against the maker in their names. The court below
seems to have supposed that the time of trial was the point of
time to which the estimate was to be made; but in this it was
mistaken. The time of commencing the action was the proper
point.
Ju.dgment reversed, and record remanded, with directions to
award a venire de novo.

SHERLOCK ET AL. v. ALLL-G, ADMINISTRATOR.
1. Until Congress makes some regulation touching the liabilities of parties for
marine torts resulting in death of the persons injured, the statute of Indiana
giving a right of action to the personal representatives of the deceased, where
his death is caused by the wrongful act or omission of another, applies, the
tort being committed within the territorial limits of the State; and, as thus
applied, it constitutes no encroachment upon the commercial power of
Congress.
2. The action of Congress as to a regulation of commerce, or the liability for its
infringement, is exclusive of State authority; but, until some action is taken
by Congress, the legislation of a State, not directed against commerce or any
of its regulations, but relating generally to the rights, duties, and liabilities
of-citizens, is of obligatory force within its territorial jurisdiction, although
it may indirectly and remotely affect the operations of foreign or inter-State
commerce, or persons engaged in such commerce.

8. The act of March 80, 1852, "to provide for the better security of the lives of

100

SHERLOCK ET AL. V. ALLING, ADMlINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

passengers on board of vessels propelled in whole or part by steam, and for
other purposes," does not exempt the owners and master of a kteam-vessel,
and the vessel, froni liability for injuries caused by the negligence of its
pilot or engineer, but makes them liable for all damages -su-ained by a passenger or his baggage, from any neglect to comply with the provyiions of the
law, no matter where the fault may lie; and, in addition to this remedy, any
person injured by the negligence of the pilot or engineer may have his
action directly against those officers.
4. The relation between the owner or master and pilot, as that of master and
employ6, is not changed by the fact that the selection of the pilot is limited to those who have been found by examination to possess the requisite
knowledge and skill, and have been licensed by the government inspectors.

ERoR to the Supreme Court of the State of Indiana.
Argued by ir. T. 2). Lincoln for the plaintiffs in error, and
by Mr. C. A. Korbly for the defendants in error.

Mr.. JuSTICE FELD delivered the opinion of the court.
In December, 1858, the defendants were the owners of a line
of steamers employed in navigating the river Ohio between the
port and city of Cincinnati, in the State of Ohio, and the port
and city of Louisville, in the State of Kentucky, for the purpose
of carrying passengers, freight, and the United States mail. On
the 4th of that month, at night, two boats of the line, designated, respectively, 'as the "United States" and the "America,"
collided at a point on the river opposite the mainland of the
State of Indiana. By the collision, the hull of one of them was
broken in, and a fire started, which burned the boat to the
water's edge, destroying it, and causing the death of one of its
passengers, by the name of Sappington, a citizen of Indiana.
The administrator of the deceased brought the present action for
his death in one of the courts of common pleas of Indiana,
under a statute of that State, which provides, "that when the
death of one is caused by the wrongful act or omission of another,
the personal representatives of the former may maintain an
action therefor against the latter, if the former might have
maintained an action, had he lived, against the latter for an
injury for the same act or omission."
The complaint in the action alleged that the collision occurred
within the territorial jurisdiction of Indiana, above the line of
low-water mark of the river, and charged it gener-ally to the
careless and negligent navigation of the steamboat "United

Oct. 1876.]

SHERLOCK ET AL. V. ALLING, ADMINISTRATOR.

101

States," by the defendants' servants, and officers of the vessel,
but especially to the carelessness of the pilot, in running the
same at too gieat a speed down the stream; in giving the first
signal to the approaching boat as to the choice of sides of the
river contrary to the established' custom of pilots navigating
the Ohio, and the rules prescribed by the act of Congress; and
in not slackening the speed of the boat and giving a signal of
alarm and danger until it was too. late to avoid the collision.
To defeat this action, the defendants relied upon substantially
the following grounds of defence: 1st, that the injuries complained of occurred on the river Ohio, beyond low-water mark
on the Indiana side, and within the limits of the State of Kentucky; and that, by a law of that State, an action for the death
of a party from the carelessness of another could only be brought
within one year from such death, which period had elapsed
when the present action was brought; and, 2d, that at the
time of the alleged injuries the colliding boats were engaged in
carrying on inter-State commerce under the laws of the United
States, and the defendants, as their owners, were not liable for
injuries occurring in their navigation through the carelessness
of their officers, except as prescribed by those laws; and that
these did not cover the liability asserted by the plaintiff under
the statute of Indiana.
Under the first head, no question is presented for consideration of which we can take cognizance. It is admitted that the
territorial limits of Indiana extend to low-water mark on the
north side of the river, and the jury found that the collision
took place above that mark. It is, therefore, of no moment to
the defendants that the Supreme Court of Indiana held that the
State possessed concurrent jurisdiction with Kentucky on the
river, under the act of the Commonwealth of Virginia of 1789,
providingfor the -erectibn of the- district of Kentucky into an
independent State, and that the legislation of Indiana could, for
that reason, be equally enforced with respect to any matters
occurring on the river, as with respect to similar matters occurring within her territorial limits on the land.
Th6 questions for our consideration arise under the second
head of the defence. . Under this head it is contended that the
statute of Indiana creates a new liability, and could not, there-

102

SHERLOCK ET AL. V. ALLING, ADMINISTRATOR.

[sup. Ct.

fore, be applied to cases where the injuries complained of were
caused by marine torts, without interfering with the exclusive
regulation of commerce vested in Congress. The position of,
the defendants, as we understand it, is, that as by both the common and maritime law the right of action for personal torts dies
with the person injured, the statute which allows actions for such
torts, when resulting in the death of the person injured, to be
brought by the personal representatives of the deceased, enlarges
the liability of parties for such torts, and that such enlarged
liability, if applied to cases of marine tort8, would constitute a
new burden upon commerce.
In supposed support of this position numerous decisions of
this court are cited by counsel, to the effect that the States cannot by legislation place burdens upon commerce with foreign
nations or among the several States. The decisions go to that
extent, and their soundness is not questioned. But, upon an
examination of the cases in which they were rendered, it will
be found that the legislation adjudged invalid imposed a tax
upon some instrument or subject of commerce, or exacted a
license fee from parties engaged in commercial pursuits, or created an impediment to the free navigation of some public
waters, or prescribed conditions in accordance with which commerce in particular articles or between particular places was
required to be conducted. In all the cases the legislation condemned operated directly upon commerce, either by way of tax
upon its business, license upon its pursuit in particular channels, or conditions for carrying it on. Thus, in The Passenger
Case8, 7 How. 445, the laws of New York and Massachusetts
exacted a tax from the captains of vessels bringing passengers
from foreign ports for every passenger lan.ed. In the Wheeling
Bridge Case, 13 id. 518, the statute of Virginia authorized the
erection of a bridge, which was held to obstruct the free navigation of the river Ohio. In the case of Sinnot v. Davenport,'
22 id. 227, the- statute of Alabama required the owner of a
steamer navigating the waters of the State to file, before the boat
left the port of Mobile, in the office of the probate judge of Mobile County, a statement in writing setting forth tie name of the
vessel, and of the owner or owners, and his or their place of residence and interest in the vessel, and prescribed penalties for neg-

Oct. 1876.]

SHERLOCK ET AL. V. ALLIN,

ADMINISTRATOI.

103

lecting the requirement. It thus imposed conditions for carrying on the coasting trade in the waters of the State in addition
to those prescribed by Congress. And in all the other cases
where legislation of a State has been held to be wull for interfering with the commercial power of Congress, as in Brown v.
Maryland, 12 Wheat. 425, tate Tonnage Tax Cases, 12 Wall.
204, and Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275, the legislation
created, in the way of tax, license, or condition, a direct burden upon commerce, or in some way directly interfered with
its freedom. In the present case no such operation can be ascribed to the statute of Indiana. That statute imposes no tax,
prescribes no duty, and in no respect interferes with any regulations for the navigation and use of vessels. It only declares
a general principle respecting the liability of all persons within
the jurisdiction of the State for torts resulting in the death of
parties injured. And in the application of the principle it
makes no difference where the injilry complained of occurred
in the State, whether on land or on water. General legislation
of this kind, prescribing the liabilities or duties of citizens of a
State, without distinction as to pursuit or calling, is not open
to any valid objection because it may affect persons engaged in
foreign or inter-State commerce. Objection might with equal
propriety be urged against legislation prescribing the form in
which contracts shall be authenticated, or property descend or
be distributed on the death of its owner, because applicable to
the contracts or estates of persons engaged in such commerce.
In conferring upon .Congress the regulation of commerce, it
was never intended to cut the States off from legislating on all
subjects relating to the health, life, and safety of their citizens,
though the legislation might indirectly affect the commerce of
the country. Legislation, in a great variety of ways, may affect
commerce and persons engaged in it without constituting a
regulation of it, within the meaning of the Constitution.
It is true that the commercial power conferred by the Constitution is one without limitation. It authorizes legislation
with respect to all the subjects of foreign and inter-State commerc6, the persons engaged in it, and the instruments by which
it is carried on. And legislation has largely dealt, so far as
commerce by water is concerned, with the instruments of that

104

SHERL.OCK ET AL. V. ALLING, ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

commerce. It has embraced the whole subject of navigation,
prescribed what shall constitute American vessels, and by whom
they shall be navigated; how they shall be registered or enrolled and licensed; to what tonnage, hospital, and other dues
they shall be subjected; what rules they shall obey in passing
each other; and what provision their owners shall make for
the health, safety, and comfort of their crews. Since steam
has been applied to the propulsion of vessels, legislation has
embraced an infinite variety of further details, to guard against
accident and consequent loss of life.
The power to prescribe these and similar regulations necessarily involves the right to declare the liability which shall
follow their infraction. Whatever, therefore, Congress determines, either as to a regulation or the liability for its infringement, is exclusive of State authority. But with reference to a
great variety of matters touching the rights and liabilities of
persons engaged in commerce, either as owners or navigators
of vessels, the laws of Congress are silent, and the laws of the
State govern. The rules for the acquisition of property by
persons engaged in navigation, and for its transfer and descent,
are, with some exceptions, those prescribed by the State to
which the vessels belong; and it may be said, generally, that
the legislation of a State, not directed against commerce or any
of its regulations, but relating to the rights, duties, and liabilities of citizens, and only indirectly and remotely affecting the'
operations of commerce, is of obligatory force upon citizens
within its territorial jurisdiction, whether on land or water, or
engaged in commerce, foreign or inter-State, or in any other
pprsuit. In our judgment, the statute of Indiana falls under
this class. Until Congress, therefore, makes some regulation
touching the liability of parties for marine torts resulting in
the death of the persons injured, we are of opinion that the
statute of Indiana applies, giving a right of action in such cases
to the personal representatives of the deceased, and that,
as thus applied, it constitutes no encroachment upon the
commercial power of Congress. United States v. Bevans,
3 Wheat. 337.
In the case of The Steamboat Company v. Clase, reported in
the 16th of Wallace, this court sustained an action for a marine

Oct.-1876.]

SHERLOCK ET AL. V. ALLING, ADMINISTRATOR.

105

tort resulting in the death of the party injured, in the name of
the administrator of the deceased, under a statute of Rhode
Island, similar in its general features to the one of Indiana.
There the deceased was killed whilst crossing Narraganset Bay
in a sail-boat by-collision with a steamer of the company; and
though objections were taken, and elaborately argued, against
the jurisdiction of the court, it was not even suggested that the
right of action conferred by the statute, when applied to cases
arising out of marine torts, in any way infringed upon the
commercial power of Congress.
In addition to the objection urged to the statute of Indiana,
the defendants also contended, that, as owners of -the colliding
vessels, they were exempt from liability to the deceased, as a
passenger on one af them, and, of course, to his representatives,
as the collision was caused; without .any fault of theirs, by the
negligence of the pilots and they relied upon the thirtieth
section of the act of Congress of March 30, 1852, to provide for
the better security of the lives of passengers on board of vessels
propelled in whole or part by steam:' That act was in force
when the injuries complained of in this case were committed,
and its principal features have been retained' in subsequent legislation. The section provided, "that whenever damage is
sustained by any passenger or his baggage, from explosion, fife,
collision, or other cause, the master and the owner of such vessel, or either of them, and the. vessel, shall be liable to each and
every person so injured to the full amount of damage, ifit happens through any neglect to comply with the provisions of law
herein prescribed,or through known defects or imperfections of
the steaming apparatus or of the hull; and any person sustaining loss or injury through the carelessness, negligence, or
wilful misconduct of an engineer or pilot, or their neglect or'
refusal to obey the provisions of law herein prescribed as to
navigating such steamers, may sue such engineer or pilot, and
recover damages for any such injury caused. as aforesaid by any
such engineer or pilot." 10 Stat. 72.
It was -argued, that by this
Congress intended the
exemptidn claimed. And confirmation of'this view was found
in the fact, that the owners were obliged to take a pilot, and
were restricted in their choice-to those licensed by the govern-section

106

SHERLOCK ET AL. V. ALLING, ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

ment inspectors. It was supposed that the relation between
owner and pilot, as that of master and employ6, was thus
changed; and that, with the change, the responsibility of the
former for the negligence of the latter ceased. The court,
however, proceeded through the trial upon a different theory
of the position of the defendants. It held, that, as owners,
they were responsible for the conduct of all the officers and
employ6s of the vessels, and that it was in'material whether
the vessels were or not at the time of the collision under the
exclusive charge of the pilots. The instructions to the jury,
at least, went to that extent. They, in substance, declared
that, if the collision -occurred within the territorial jurisdiction
.of Indiana, and was caused, without fault of the deceased, by
the carelessness or misconduct of the defendants, or any. of
their agents, servants, or employ6s, in navigating and managing
the steamers, or either of them, the plaintiff was entitled to
,recover.
In support of the exemption, the counsel of the defendants
called to our attention an opinion of the. Supreme Court of
Kentucky, in a similar case arising upon the same collision,
where such exemption was upheld. The opinion is marked by
the usual ability which characterizes the judgients of that
court; but, after much hesitation and doubt, we have been
compelled to dissent from its conclusions. The statute appears
to us to declare, that the owners and master of a steam-vessel,
and the vessel itself, shall be liable for all da mages sustained by
9. passenger or his baggage, .from any-neglect to conmply with
the provisions of the law, no matter where the fault may lie;
and that, in addition to this remedy, any person injured by the
negligeice of the pilot or engineer may have his action directly
against those officers.
The occasions upon which a pilot or engineer w6uld be able
to respond to any considerable amount would be exceptional.
The statute of England, which exempts the owners of vessels
and the vessels from liability for faults of pilots, - pilotage
there being compulsory, and pilots being licensed, - has not
met with much commendation from the admiralty courts, andthe general tendency of their adjudications has been to construe
the exemption with great strictness. This course of decision is

Oct. 1876.]

SHERLOCK ET AL. V. ALLING, ADMINISTRATOR.

107

very fully stated in the exposition of the law made by Mr.
Justice Swayne, in the case of The China, 7 Wall. 53, where
this court declined to hold that compulsory pilotage relieved
the vessel from liability. In the case of The Halley, Law
Rep. 2 Adm. & Ecc. 15, decided as recently as 1867, Sir
Robert Phillimore strongly questioned the policy of the statute, and said that it appeared to him difficult to reconcile
the claims of natural justice with the law which exempted
the owner who had a licensed pilot on board from liability
for the injuries done by the bad navigation of his vessel to
the property of an innocent owner; and observed, that no one
acquainted with the working of the law could be ignorant
that' it was fruitful in injustice. The doctrine, that the owners are responsible for the acts of their agents and employ6s,
ought not to be discarded;- because the selection of a pilot by
the owner is limited to those who, by the State, have been found
by examination to possess the requisite knowledge of the difficulties of local navigation, and the requisite skill to conduct a
vessel through them. "As a general rule," says Mr. Justice
Grier, "masters of vessels are not expected to be, and cannot
be, acquainted with the rocks and shoals on every coast" (and,
we may add, with the currents and shoals of every river), "nor
able to conduct a vessel safely into every port. Nor can the
absent owners, or their agent the master, be supposed capable
of judging of the capacity of persons offering to.serve as pilots.
They need a servant, but are not in a situation to test or judge
of his qualifications, and have not, therefore, the information
necessary to choice. The pilot laws kindly interfere, and do
that for the owners which 'they could not do for themselves."
Smith v. The Creole and The Samson, 2 Wall. Jr. 515. And
the learned Justice observes, that in such cases, where a pilot
is required to be taken from those licensed, the relation of
master and servant is not changed; that the pilot continues
the servant of the owners, acting in their employ, and receiving
wages for services rendered to them, and that the fact that he
is selected for them by'persons m~re capable of judging of
his qualifications cannot alter the relation.
And, in the case of The Halley, Sir Robert Phillimore upon
this subject says: "I do not quite understand why, because the

108

Co~msslom Rs, ETC.,

v.

LuCAs, TREASURER.

[Sup. Ct.

State insists, on the one hand, upon all persons who exercise the
office of pilot, witlin certain districts, being duly educated for
the purpose, and having a certificate of their fitness, and insists,
on the other ]land, that the master shall, within these districts,
take one of these persons on board to superintend the steering
of his vessel, the usual relation of owner and servant is to be
entirely at an end; and still less do I see why the sufferer is to
be deprived of all practical redress for injuries inflicted upon
him by the ship which such a pilot navigates."
By the common law, the. owners are responsible for the damages committed by their vessel, without any reference fo the
particular agent by whose negligence the injury was committed.
By the maritime law, the vessel, as well as the owners, is liable
to the party injured for damages caused by its torts. By that
law, the vessel is deemed to be an offending thing, and may be
prosecuted, without any reference to the adjustment of responsibility between the owners and employds, f6r the negligence which
resulted in the injury. Any departture from this liability of
the owners or of the vessel, except as the liability of the former
may be released by a surrender of the vessel, has been found in
practice to work great injustice. The statute ought to be very
clear, before we should conclude that any such departure was
intended by Congress. The section we have cited would not
justify such a conclusion. Its language readily admits of the
construction -we have given, and that construction is inharmony
Judgment affirmed.
with the purposes of the act.

BOAitD OF CO3I3IISSIONERS OF Tar:EOA..OE. COouTY
LuCAS, TREASUR.ER.

v.

1. If by any direction of a Supreme Court of a.State an entire cause is determined, the decision, when reduced to form and entered in the records of the
court, constitutes a final judgment, whatever may be its technical designation, -and is subject- in a proper case to review by this court. So held,
where, hpon appeal from an interlocutory order made by a circuit-court of
Indiana, granting a temporary injunction, the Supreme Court of the State
reversed the order and remanaed the cause to the lower court, with directions to dismiss the complaint.
2. Unlegs restrained by provisions of its constitution, the legislature of a State

