174

BANK OF KENTUCKY V. ADAMIS EX. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

B A2K OF KENTUCKY v. ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY.
PLANTERS' NATIOxAL BATK OF- LOUISVILLE v. ADAMS

ExPREss COINIPANY.
I. A party engaged as a common carrier cannot, by declaring or stipulating that
he shall not be so considered, divest himself of the liability attached to the
fixed legal character of that occupation.
2. A common carrier, who undertakes for himself to perform an entire service,
has no authority to constitute another person or corporation the agent of
his consignor or consignee. He may employ an agency, but it must be
subordinate to him, and not to the shipper, who neither employs it, pays
it, nor has any right to interfere with it. Its acts become his, because done
in his seivice and by his direction.
8. Therefore, where an express company engaged to transport packages, &c.,
from one point to another, sends its messenger in charge of them on the
car set apart for its use by the railroad company employed to perform the
service, the latter company becomes the agent of the former.
4. An exception in its bill of lading, "that tlie express company is not to be
liable in any manner or to any extent for any loss or damage or detention
of such package, or its contents, or of any portion thereof, occasioned by
fire," does not excuse the company from liability for the loss of such package by fire, if caused by the negligence of a railroad company to which the
former had confided a part of the duty it had assumed.
5.Public policy demands that the right of the owners to absolute security
against.the negligence of the carrier, and of all persons engaged in performing his duty, shall not be taken away by any reservation in his receipt, or
by any arrangement between him and the performing company.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kentucky.
These are -actions by the plaintiffs in error to recover the
value of certain packages containing money, which, on their
transportation over the Louisville and Nashville Railroad in
charge of a messenger of the defendant in error, were destroyed

by fire. There was a verdict and judgment in each case for
the defendant. The plaintiffs sued- oxt these writs of error.
The facts are set forth in the opinion of the court. So much"
of the instructions of the court below as are referred to but not
incorporated in the opinion are as follows: -,

"If the jury believe that the teller of the Louisiana National Bank presented the bill of. lading to the agent of the
express company; for his signature, with the blanks filled, and
at such time delivered to the agent the package of money,

Oct. 1876.]

BANK OF KENTUCKY v. ADAMIS EX. Co.

175

without disclosing who vas the owner of it, but addressed to
the plaintiff at Louisville that the bill of lading was signed
and redelivered to the teller, and forwarded to the plaintiff
at Louisville, then the bill of lading thus signed constitutes
the contract, and all the exceptions in it are a part of the
contract, no matter wihether each or all of them were known
to the Louisiana National Bank or not; and the plaintiff is
bound by the contract, whether it expressly authorized the
Louisiana National Bank to make it or not. The evidence
tending to show that the bill of lading was not read at the
time of the signing, and that nothing was said about the exceptions contained in it, is immaterial."
"It is claimed by the plaintiff that the defendant was wanting in care in the use of the safe or box in which the package
was at the time of the lons. If there was any such want of
reasonable care in this particular, the defendant is undoubtedly
liable; but if the safe was such as prudent persons engaged in
like employment generally use for the purpose, there was no
want of care. and the defendant is not responsible for want of
care in this particular."
Mr. John H. Harlanfor the plaintiffs in error.
-While the right of a common carrier to contract for a reasonable limitation of his responsibility cannot be disputed, it is
equally clear tlat such respoiisibility cannot be restricted or
qualified, unless he "expressly stipulates for the restriction and
qualification." York Company v. Centrai R. R., 3 Wall. 107.
The exemption should be specific and certain, leaving no room
for controversy. :Yew Jersey Steam Nav. Co. v. lerchants'
Bank, 6 How. 883; Railroad Co. v, Manufacturing Co., 16
Wall. 329.
A common carrier does not cease to be such because he has
limited his liability by a special contradt. Davidson v. Graham, 2 Ohio St: 140; Railroad Company v. Lockwood, 17 Wall.
357; Hooper v." Wells, Fargq, J6 Co., 27 Cal. 11; Christenson v.
Am. -Ex. Co., 15 Minn. 270. Nor will he be permitted to
stipulate for immunity for his own negligence, or that of his
servants or agents, even though he can exercise no control
Ashmore v. -Penn. S. T. Co., 4 Dutch.
over their actions.
180; Railroad-Yompany v. Lockwood, supra; Christenson v.

BANK OF KENTUCKY V. ADAMS Ex. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Am. Ex. Co., supra ; Telch v. Boston & Albany B. B. Co., 15
Am. Law Reg., March, 1876, No. 3, p. 140.
The Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company was, in contemplation of law, for the purposes of transportation, the agent
of the defendant in error.. The latter is, therefore, responsible
for the negligence of the former. Hooper v. Wells, Fargo,
Co., supra ; Christenson v. Am. Ex. Co., supra ; Buckland
v. Adams -E. Co., 97 Mass. 124; Redfield on Carriers, sect. 56,
note 27.
Mr. G. C. Wharton for the defendant in error.
The right of a common carrier to limit by special contract
his common-law liability is fully settled. -Express Company
v. Caldwell, 21 Wall. 267; Fork Company v. Central Railroad,
3 id. 107; ,Railrodd Company v. Lockwood, 17 id. 357; New
Jersey Steam Navigation Co. v. Jierchants' Bank, 6 How. 344.
The bill of lading was evidence of the contract between the
parties. The plaintiffs in error accepted it without objection.
They are therefore bound by the conditions therein expressed.
Brooman v. Ami.. Bx. Co., 21 Wis. 152; Grace v. Adams -Er.
Co. 100 Mass. 505;. York Company v. Central Railroad,supra;
Railroad Compday v. A-ndroscoggin Mills, 22 Wall. 595; Meyer,
Agent, v.-H arden's Ex. Co., 24 How. Pr. 290; Railroad Company v. . & M. 'Bank, 20 Wis. 123; -Parsonsv. Monteath
and H1azard, 13 Bgrb. 353; lDorrv. Steam Navigation Company,
1 Kern. 485; Wells v. New Fork Central Railroad Company,
$4 N. Y. 180.
Although the d1fendant in error remains a common carrier,
its liability was limited to that of an ordinary bailee for hire,
in reference to the particular limitations in the contract. It is
not, therefore, -rsonsiblefor negligence, or the want of ordinary care of per.Aons over whom it had no control. Railroad
Company v. Lockwood, supra; Fork -Company v. Central Railroad, supra; Nptub Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank 'supta; -Dorr v. Steam Navigation Company,
supra; Meyer, 'gent, v. Harden's -Ex. Co., supra.
If the rdilroad or any of its employgs were negligent, thE
plainfIffs in error have their remedy against it. New JerseS
Steam NNvigation Company v. Merchants' Bank, supra.
Neither the relation of master and servant nor that of prin-

Oct. 1876.J

BANK

OP

KENTUCKY V. ADAMS Ex. Co.

177

cipal and agent existed between the express messenger and the
railroad company. Union Pacific Railroad v. Nicols, 8 Kans.
505; Yeomans v. The Centra Casta Steam Naviyation Company,
44 Cal. 71.
The railroad company not being the servant of the defendant in error, nor under its control, the doctrine of respondeat
superior does not apply. Bla7e v. Ferris, 5 N. Y. 48.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendants in each of these cases are an express company, engaged in the business of carrying for hire money,
goods, and parcels, from one locality to another. In the transaction of their business they employ the railroads, steamboats,
and other public conveyances of the country. These conveyances are not owned by them, nor are they subject to their
control, any more than they are to the control of other transporters or passengers. The packages intrusted to their care
are at all times, while on these public conveyances, in the
charge of one of their own messengers or agents. In conducting their business, they are associated with another express
company, called the Southern; and the two companies are
engaged in carrying by rail through Louisiana and Mississippi, to Humboldt, Tenn., and thence over the Louisville and
Nashville Railroad to Louisville, Ky., under a contract by
which they divide the compensation for carriage in proportion
to the distance the package is transported by them respectively. Between Humboldt and Louisville both companies
employ the same messenger, who is exclusively subject to the
orders of the Southern Express Company when south of the
northern boundary of Tennessee;and 'to the orders of the defendants when north of that boundary.
Such being the business and occupation of the defendants,
they are t6 be regarded as common carriers, and, in the absence
of stipulations to the contrary, subject to all the legal responsibilities of such carriers.
On the twenty-sixth day of July, 1869, the Southern Express
Company received from the Louisiana. National Bank at.New
Orleans two packages, one containing $13,528.15, for delivery
to, the Bank of Kentucky, Louisville, and the other containing
VOL. 11.

12

BANK OF KENTUCKY v. ADAMS EX. CO.

178

[Sup. Ct.

$3,000, for delivery to'the Planters' National Bank of Louisville, at Louisville. The money belonged to the banks respectively to which the packages were sent. When the packages
were thus received, the agent of the Southern Express Company gave a receipt, or domestic bill of lading, for each, of
which the following is a copy (the two differing only in the
description of the consignees and in the amount of money
mentioned)

-

-DomesticBill
SOUTH[ERN EXPRESS CO

of Eading.

zrAy, EXPRESS FORWARDERS.

$13,528.15.
July 26, 1869.
"Received from Lou. Nat. Bank one package, sealed, and said to

"No. 2.

contain thirteen thousand five hundred and twenty-eight Tyw dollars.
,"Addressed Bank of Kentucky, Louisville, Ky. Freight coll." Upon the special acceptance and agreement that this company
is to forward the same to its agent nearest or most convenient to
destination only, and then .to 'deliver the same to other parties to
complete the transportation, such delivery to terminate all liability 9 f
this company for such package; 'and also that this company are not
to be liable in any manner or to any extent for any loss, danger, or
detention of such package or its contents, or of any portion thereof,
occasioned by the acts of God, or by any person or persons acting
or claiming to act in apy military or other capacity in hostility to
the government of the United States, or occasioned by civil or
military authority, or by the acts of any armed or other mob or
riotous assemblage, piracy, or, the -dangers incident to a time of
war, nor when occasioned' li# the dangers of railroad transportation, or ocean or river navigation, or by fire or steam. The shipper
and owner hereby severally agree that all the stipu ations and conditions in this receipt shall extend to and inure to the benefit of
each and every company or person to vhom the Southern Express
Company may intrust or deliver the above-described property for'
transportation, and shall 'define and li~mit the liability therefor of
such other companies or person. In no event is this company to
be liable for a greater sum than that above mentioned,'nor shall it
be liable for a~y such loss, unless the claim therefor shall be"made
,in writing, at this office, within 'thirty days from this date, in a
statement to which this receipt shall be annexed.
CE
Freight coll.
"For the company ,

SHACKLEFORD. '

Oct. 1876.]

BANK OF KENTUCKY V. ADAMS EX. CO.

179

Across the left-hand end of said receipt was the following
printed matter : "Insured by Southern Express Company for
except against loss occasioned by the public enemy.
"For the company
"Insurance, $ -"

to

only

The bills of lading were sent to the consignees at Louisville.
IHaving thus received the packages, the Southern Express
Company transported them by railroad as fax as Humboldt,
Tenn., and there delivered them to the messenger of the
defendants (who was also their messenger) to complete the
transportation to Louisville, and to make delivery thereof to
the plaintiffs. For that purpose the messenger took charge
of them, placing them in an iron safe, and depositing the safe
in an apartment of a car set apart for the use of express companies, for transportation to Louisville. Subsequently, while
the train to which the car containing the packages was attached
was passing over a trestle on the line of the Louisville and
Nashville Railroad, and while the packages were in charge of
the messenger, the trestle gave way during the night, the train
with the express car was thrown from the track, and the car
with others caught fire from the locomotive and was burned,
together with the money in the safe.. The messenger was
rendered insensible by the fall, and he continued so' until after
the destruction was complete. There was some evidence that
some of the timber of the trestle seemed decayed.
Upon this state of facts the learned: judge of the Circuit Court
instructed the jury, that, "If they believed the package was
destroyed by fire, as above indicated, without any fault or
neglect whatever on behalf of the messenger or defendants, the
defendants have brought themselves within the terms of the
exceptions in 'the bill of lading, and are not liable." And again,
the court charged: "It is not material to inquire whether the
accident resulted from' the want of care, or from the negligence
of theLouisville and Nashville Railroad Company, and its agents,
or not." And again: "But when he (the common carrier)
has limited his liability, so as to make'himself responsible for

180

'BANK OF KENTUCKY

v. ADAMS Ex. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

ordinary care only, and the shipper to recover against him is
obliged to aver and prove negligence, it must be his negligence, or the negligence of his agents, and not the negligence
of persons over whom he has no cdntrol. If in his employment he uses the vehicles of others, over which he has no
control, and uses reasonable care, - that is, such care as ordinarily prudent persons engaged in like business use ,inselecting the vehicles, - arid if the loss arises from a cause against
which he has stipulated with the shipper, he shall not be liable
for the same, unless it arises from his want of care, or the want
of care of his employgs." At the same time, the learned judge
instructed th-e jury as follows: "Without, therefore, deciding
whether or not the evidence adduced in the - case tends to
establish- any want of reasonable or ordinary care on the part
of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Comjiany, I instruct
you, that such evidence is irrelevant and incompetent, and that
you should disregard it; that is, give no more effect to" it than
if it had not been adduced."
* These extracts'from the charge, to all of which exception
was duly taken, exhibit the most important question in these
cases, which is, whther the stipulations of the carriers' receipt
or bill of lading relieyed them from responsibility for the negligence of the railroad company employed by them to complete
the carriage. The" Circuit Court was of opinion, as we have
seen, that they did; and practically instructed the jury, that,
under the modified contract of bailment, the defendants were
liable for loss by fire only to the extent to which mere bailees
-for hire,. not common carriers, are liable; that is, that they were
responsible 'nly for the want of ordinary care exercised by
themselves or those who were under their control. With this
we cannot concur, though we are not unmindful of the ability
with which the learned judge has defended his opinion.
We have already remarked, the defendants were common
carriers. They were not the less such because they had stipufated for a more restricted liability than would have been theirs
had their receipt contained ofily a contract to carry and deliver.
What they were is to be determined by the. nature of their
business, not by-the contract they made respecting the liabilities' which should atteifd it. Having taken up the occupation,

Oct. 1876.]

BANk OF KENTUCKY

v. ADAMS Ex. Co.

181

its fixed legal character could not be thrown off by any declaration or stipulation that they should not be considered such
carriers.
The duty of a common carrier is to transport and deliver
safely. ie is made, by law, an insurer against all failure to
perform this duty, except such failure as may be caused by the
public enemy, or by what is denominated the act of God. By
special contract with his employers, he may, it is true, to some
extent, be excused, if the limitations to his responsibility stipulated for are, in the judgment of the law, reasonable, and not
incdnsistent with sound public policy. It is agreed, however,
that he cannot, by any contract with his customers, relieve himself from responsibility for his own negligence or that of his
servants; and this because such a contract is unreasonable and
contrary to legal policy. So much has been finally determined
in Railroad Company v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357. But can he,
by a contract made with those who intrust property to him for
carriage and delivery, - a contract made at the time he receives
the property, - secure to himself exemption from responsibility
for consequences of the negligence of a railroad company or its
agents not owned or controlled by him, but which he employs
in the transportation? This question is not answered in.the
Lockwood case. It is raised here, or rather the question is
presented, whether a common carrier does relieve himself from
the consequences of such negligence by a stipulation that he
shall not be liable for losses by fire.
The exception or restriction to the common-law liability
introduced into the bills of lading given by the defendants, so
far as it is necessary to consider it, is, "that the express company are not to be liable in 'any manner or to any extent for
any loss or damage, or detention of such package or its contents,
or of any portion thereof, occasioned by fire." The language
is very broad; but it must be construed reasonably, and, if
possible, consistently with the law. It is not to be presumed
the parties intended to make a contract which the law does not
allow. , If construed literally, the exception extends to all loss
by fire, no matter how occasioned, whether occurring accidentally, or caused by the culpable negligence of the carriers or
their servants, and even to all losses by fire caused by wilful

182

BANK OF KhNTUCKY

V. ADAiS -Ex. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

acts of the carriers themselves. That it can be operative to
such an extent is not claimed. Nor is it insisted that the stipulation, though assented to by the shippers, can protect the
defendants against responsibility for failure to deliver the
packages according to their engagement, when such failure has
been caused by their own misconduct, or that of their servants
or agents. But the Circuit Court ruled, the exception did extend
to negligence beyond the carriers' own, and that of the servants
and agents appointed by them and under their control, - that it
extended to losses by fire 'resulting from the carelessness of a
railroad company, employed by them in the service which they
undertdok, to carry the packages; andthereason assigned for
the ruling was, that the railroad company and its employ6s
were not under the control of the defendants. With this ruling
we are uniable to concur.. The railroad company, in transporting
the messenger of the defendants and the express matter in his
charge, was the agent of somebody: either of the express company, or of the shippers or consignees of the property. That
it was the agent of the defendants is quite lear. It was
employed by them, and paid by them. The service it was
called upon to perform was a seivice for the defendants ; a duty
incumbent upon. them, and not upon the plaintiffs. The latter
had nothing to do with the employment. It was neither
directed by them, nor had they any control over the railroad
company or its employgs. It is true, the defendants had also
no control over the company or its servants: but they were its
employers, presumably thhy paid for its service; and that
service was ditectly and immediately for them. Control of
the conduct'of an agency is not in all cases essential to liability
for the consequences of that conduct. If any one is to be
affected by the acts or omissions of persons employed to do a
particular service, surely it must be he who gave the employment. Their acts become his, because done.in his service and
by his direction. Moreover, a common carrier who undertakes
for himself to perform an entire service has no authority to
constitute another person or corporation the agent of his consignor dr consignee.. He may employ a subordinate agency;
but-it must be subordinate-to him, and.not to one who neither
employs it nor pays it, nor has any right to interfere with it.

Oct. 1S76.]

BANK OF KENTUCKY V. ADAMS EX. CO.

If, then, the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company was
acting for these defendants, and performing a service for them,
when transporting the packages they had undertaken to convey,
as we think must be concluded, it would seem it must be considered their agent. And why is not the reason of the rule,
that common carriers cannot stipulate for exemption from
liability for their own negligence and that of their servants and
agents, as applicable to the contract made in these cases as it
was to the facts that appeared in the case of fRailroad Co06npany
v. ]4ockwood? The foundation of the rule is, that it tends tothe greater security of consignors, who always deal with such
carriers at a disadvantage. It tends to induce greater care and
watchfulness in those to whom an owner intrusts his goods,
and b whom alone the needful care can be exercised. Any
contract that withdraws a motive for such care, or that makes
a failure to bestow upon the duty assumed extreme vigilance
and caution more probable, takes away the security of the consignors, and makes common carriage more unreliable. This is
equally true, whether the contract be for exemption from
liability for the negligence of agencies employed by the carrier
to assist him in the discharge of his obligations, though he has
no control over them, or whether it be for exemption from
liability for a loss occasioned by the carelessness of his immediate servant. ' Even in the latter case he may have no actual
control. Theoretically, he has; but most frequently, when the
negligence of his servant occurs, he is not at hand, has no
opportunity to give directions, and the negligent act is against
his will. He is responsible, because he has put the servant in a
place where the wrong could be done. It is quite as important
to the consignor and to the public, that the subordinate agency,
though not a servant under immediate control, should be held
to the strictest care, as it -is that the carrier himself and the
servants under his orders should be.
For these reasons, we think it is not admissible to construe
the exception in the defendants' bills of lading as excusing them
from liability for thelloss of the packages by fire, if caused by
the negligence of the railroad company to which they confided
a part of the duty they had assumed.
There are other reasons of weight which deserve consideration.

184

BANK OF KENTUCKY v.

DAMD
S Ex. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Express companies frequently carry over long routes, at great
distances from the places of destination of the property carried,
and from the residence of its owners. If in the course of
transportation a loss occurs through ' the want of care of manager of public conveyances which they employ, the carriers or
their servants are at hand. They are best acquainted with the
facts. To them those managers of the public conveyances are
responsible, and they can obtain redress much more conveniently than distant owners of the property can. Indeed, in
many cases, suits by absent owners would be attended with
serious difficulties. Besides, express companies make their own
bargains with the companies they employ, while they keep the
property in their own charge, usually attended by a messenger.
It was so in the'present cise. The defendants had an arrangeme-& with. the railroad company, under which the packages of
money, enclosed in an iron safe, were put into an apartment
of a car set apart for the use of the express compafiy. Yet
the safe containing the packages continued in the custody
of the messenger. Therefore, as between the defendants aid
the railroad company, it may be doubted whether the relation was that of a common carrier to his consignor, because the
company had not the packages in charge. The department in
the car was the defendants' for the time being; and, if
the defendants retained the custody 'of the packages carried,
instead of trusting them to the company, the latter did not
insure the carriage. ,lMiles v. Cattle, 6 Bing. 743; Towers v.
The Utica &' S!yraeuse R. 1. Co., 7 Hill (N. Y.), 47 ; Redf. on
Railw., sect. 74.
Now, can it be a reasonable construction to give to the contract between the defendants and the pliintifts, that the former,
who had agreed Ito carry and deliver the packages at Louisville,
r9served to themselves the right to eniploy a subordinate carrier;
arrainge with him that he should be responsible only for ordinary
vigilance against fire, and by that arrangement relieve themselves from what without it would have been their clear duty?
Granting that the plaintiffs can sue the, -railroad company for
the loss of the packages through its fault, their right .comes
through tlheir contract between it and the defendants. They
must claim through that. 6 How. 381-. *Had the packages

Oct. 1876.]

BANK OF KENTUCKY

V. ADAIS

EX. CO.

185

been delivered to the charge of the railroad company, without
any stipulation for exemption from the ordinary liability of
carriers, it would have been an insurer both to the express company and to the plaintiffs. But, as they were not so delivered,
the right of the plaintiffs to the extremest constant vigilance
during all stages of the carriage is lost, if the defendants are
not answerable for the negligence of the railroad company, notwithstanding the exception in their bills of lading. We cannot
cl-16 our eyes to the well-known course of business in the
country. Over very many of our railroads the- contracts for
transportation of goods are made, not with the owners of the
roads, nor with the railroad companies themselves, but with
transportation agencies or companies which have arrangements
with the railroad companies for the carriage. In this manner,
some of the responsibilities of common carriage are often sought
to be evaded; but in vain. Public policy demands that the
right of the owners to absolute security against the negligence
of the carrier, and of all persons engaged in performing the
carrier's duty, shall not be taken away by any reservation in
the carrier's receipt, or by any arrangement between him and
the performing company.
It has been urged on the part of the defence, that, though
the contract does not attempt to exempt, and could not have
exempted, the express company from liability for loss occasioned by the neglect of itself or its servants, yet, when it is
sought to charge the company with neglect, it must be such as
it is responsible for upon the general principles of law; and that,
upon those principles, no one is responsible for damage occasioned by neglect, unless it be the neglect of himself, his servants, or agents. The argument mistakes, we think, when it
asserts, that, upon general principles of law, no one is responsible
for the consequences of any neglect except his own, or that of
his agents or servants. Conunon carriers certainly are, and for
very substantial reasons. These defendants, it is agreed, were
common carriers; and they remained such after the exception
in their receipt. If it be said, the exception reduced their
responsibility to such an extent as to make them liable only
for such neglect as fastens a liability upon persons who are not
comaon carriers, the answer is, such an averment assumes the

BANK OF KENTUCKY v. ADAMS Ex. 0o.

-

[Sup. Ct.

very thing to be proved; and, even if the argument were
sound, the question would still remain, whether the railroad
company employed by the defendants to effect the carriage is
not properly to be regarded as their agent, though not under
their control. That question we have already considered.
Again: it is u'ged, that, though the defendants remained common carriers, notwithstanding their contract, their responsibility was limited by their receipt to that of an ordinary bailee
for hire; and, as such a bailee is not held liable for the neglect of persons over whom he has no control, it is argued that
these defendants are not liable for.the negligence of the railroad company. This also assumes what cannot be admitted.
Although we are told all the authorities agree, that, when a
common carrier has by special contract limited his liability, he
becomes, -with reference to that particular transaction, an ordinary bailee, - a private carrier for hire, - or reduces his responsibilities to those of an ordinary bailee for hire, yet we do not
find that the authorities assert that doctrine, if by the phrase
"that particular transaction" is meant the undertaking to
carry. Certainly, those to -hich we have been referred do not.
We do not deny that a contract may be made which will put a
common carrier on the same 1evel with a private carrier for
hire, as respects-his liability for loss caused by the acts or omissions of others. The consignor may, by contract, restrain him;
may direct how and by what agencies he shall carry. Under
such an arrangement he may become a mere forwarder, and
cease to be a carrier. But what we have to decide in these
cases is, whether the contract proved has that operation. We
have already said, we think it has not. The exception in the
bills of lading has sufficient to operate upon, without being a
cover for negligence on the part of any persons engaged in the
service undertaken by the carriers. It exempts the defendants
from responsibility for loss by fire, caused by the acts or omissions of all persons who are not agents or agencies for the
transportation.
That is a large restriction; and beyond that, in our judgment, the exception in the present case does not extend.
To the opinion we have thus expressed we find direct support in the case of Hooper v. Wells, Fargo, ' Co., 27 Cal. 11.

Oct. 1876.]

BANK OF KENTUCKY V. ADAMS EX. CO.

187

There an express company had undertaken to transport golddust and bullion from Los Angeles to San Francisco, and
deliver to address. The receipt for the property conained the
following stipulation: "In no event to be liable beyond our
route, as herein receipted. It is further agreed, and is part of
the consideration of this contract, that Wells, Fargo, & Co. are
not to be responsible except as forwarders, nor for any loss or
damage arising from the' dangers of railroad, ocean, or river
navigation, fire, &c., unless specially insured by them, and so
specified in this receipt." In the course of the transportation,
the messenger of the carriers who bad the property in charge
took it on board a steam-tug, for the purpose of placing it on a
steamer bound to San Francisco. On the way to the steamer,
the boiler of the steam-tug exploded, in consequence of carelessness of its officers, and the gold-dust and bullion were
thereby lost. The "steam-tug did not belong to the express
company, nor was it or its officers under their control. Yet
the court adjudged that the managers and employ6s of the
steam-tug were in legal contemplation the managers and employds of the carrier, and that the restrictive clause in the
receipt did not exempt the carriers from liability for loss occasioned by the carelessness of those employgs. To the same
effect is the case of Christensen et al. v. The American 1 x.
Co., 15 Minn. 270, and the case of Machu v. The London,&
South-western Railway Comany, 2 Exch. 415, though. arising inder the caxrier acts of 11 Geo. IV. and.1 Wm. IV., is
very analogous. The statute declared that the carrier should
be liable to answer for. the felonious acts of any coachman,
guard, book-keeper, porter, or other.servant in his employ. The
court considered that all parties actually employed in doing the
work which the carrier undertook to do, either by himself or
his servants, were to be regarded as lis servants, within the
meaning of the act. Baron Rolfe said, the right as against the
carriers arises not from the relation of master and servant, but
by virtue of the contract into which they have entered to
deliver the goods. This was said in answer to an argument
like the one relied upon in this case, that the relation of master
and servant could not exist between the carriers and the servants of a sub-contractor.

188

U. S. v. 43

GALLONS OF WHISKEY,

ETC.

[Sup. Ct.

The other objections urged against the charge given by the
court below to the jury require but brief notice.
We find no error in -what the circuit judge said upon the
question whether the bills of lading, with the exceptions, constituted the contract between the parties. The charge in this
particular is justified by very numerous authoritative decisions.
York Company v. Central Railroad Company, 3 Wall. 107;
GTrace y. Adams, 100 Mass. 505; Wells v. The Steam 1'rav.
Co., 2 Comst. 204; _Dorr v. New Jersey Steam_Nav. Co.,
I Kern. 485; 6 How. 344; 3 Wall. 107; 6 Blatchf. 64; Kirkland v. Dinsmore, 62 N. Y. 161.
Nor was there error in the instruction given respecting the
iron safe. Taken as'a whole, it was correct.
The charge covered the whole case, and, except in those particulars in which we have indicated our opinion that it was
erroneous, we find no just reason to complain of it.
But for the errors we have pointed out new trials must be
awarded.
Judgment in each case reversed, and the record remitted with
directions to award a venire de novo.

UNITED STATES V. FOIATY-THREE GAILOwxs OF WHISKEY, ETC.
1. Congress, under its constitutional power to regulate commerce with the Indian
tribes, may not only prohibit the unlicensed introduction and sale of spirituous liquors in the "Indian country," but extend such prohibition to territory in proximity to that occupied by Indians.
2. It is competent for the United States, in the exercise of the treaty-making
power, to stipulate, in a treaty with an Indian tribe, that, within the territory
thereby ceded, the laws of the United States, then or thereafter enacted,
prohibiting the introduction and sale of spirituous liquors in the Indian
country, shall be in full force and effect, until otherwise directed by Congress
or the President of the United States.
3. Such a stipulation operates proprio vigore, and is binding upon the courts,
although the ceded territory is situate within an organized county of a
State.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Minnesota.
This is a libel of information by the United States against

