DEBARY v. ARTHUR, COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ot.

MR. JUSTICE MILLER, with whom concurred TVIR. JUSTICE
FmLD, dissenting.

I dissent from this opinion.
I think the Circuit Court, under the circumstances of the
case, had a right to treat the application of appellants for
appeal as having been made when they asked liberty to use
the name of their trustee for that purpose; and it was rightfully
allowed by the Circuit Court as of that date. If this be so, it
is not denied that the bond approved by me would operate as a
supersedeas.

DEBARY v. ARTHUR, COLLECTOR.
The act of Congress of July 14, 1870 (16 Stat. 262), imposed on champagne wine
a duty of six dollars per dozen bottles (quarts), and three dollars per dozen
bottles (pints), and upon each bottle containing it an additional duty of three
cents.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
ifr. Stephien G. Clarke for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- Ceneral Smith, contra.
Mn. JUSTICE HU T delivered the opinion of the court.
The firm.of DeBary & Co. sued the collector of the port of
New York to obtain the return of an amount of duties which
they alleged had been illegally exacted from them. The Circuit Court, holding that the exaction of the duties complained
of was legal, rendered judgment for the defendant. The plaintiffs appeal to this court.
The question arises upon the act of Congress of July 14,
1870 (16 Stat. 262).
By sect. 21 of that statute it is enacted as follows :"There shall be levied, collected, and paid, the following duties,"
viz. -

"On all wines imported in casks, containing not more than
twenty-two per centum of alcohol, and valued at not exceeding
forty cents per gallon, twenty-five cents per gallon; valued at
over forty cents, and not over one dollar per gallon, sixty cents per

Oct. 1876.]

DEBARY v. ARTHUR, COLLECTOR.

gallon ; valued at over one dollar per gallon, one dollar per gallon;
and, in addition thereto, twenty-five per centum ad valorem.
"On wines of all kinds, imported in bottles, and not otherwise
herein provided for, the same rate per gallon as wines imported in
casks ; but all bottles containing one quart, or less than one quart,
and more than one pint, shall be held to contain one quart; and all
bottles containing one pint or less shall be held to contain one pint,
and shall pay, in addition, three cents for each bottle.
"On champagne, and all other sparkling wines, in bottles, six
dollars per dozen bottles, containing each not more than one quart,
and more than one pint; and three dollars per dozen bottles, containing not more than one pint each, and more than one-half pint;
and one dollar and fifty cents per dozen bottles, containing one-half
pint each, or less ; and, in bottles containing more than one quart
each, shall pay, in addition to six dollars per dozen bottles, at the
rate of two dollars per gallon on the quantity in excess of one quart
per bottle: Provided,that any liquors containing more than twentytwo per centum of alcohol, which shall be entered under the name of
wine, shall be forfeited to the United States. Andprovidedfurither,
that wines, brandy, and other spirituous liquors, imported in bottles, shall be packed in packages containing not less than one dozen
bottles in each package; and all such bottles shall pay an additional
duty of three cents for each bottle."
The question presented by the record and arising under this
statute is, What rate of duty is imposed upon "champagne in
bottles "? More specifically, Is the duty of six dollars per
dozen bottles imposed upon "champagne in bottles " in this
act exhaustive and complete; or did Congress, while enacting
a specific rate of duty by the dozen bottles for champagne in
bottles, also impose a. duty of thirty-six cents for each dozen
bottles in addition to the six dollars per dozen specifically
named?
The collector of the Port of New York, the defendant in
this suit, answered the latter branch of this question in the
affirmative. He collected upon the plaintiffs' champagne a
duty of six dollars per dozen bottles (quarts), and also collected
an additional duty of three cents upon each of the bottles containing the champagne.
In this, we think, he complied with the* statute, both in its
terms and in its spirit.

DEBARY v. ARTHUR, COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Or.

1. The language of the statute seems to require this construction. It is proved and conceded that this champagne is
wine. The statute imposes duties under three heads: 1. On
all wines imported in casks, of the value specified, and containing not more than twenty-two per cent of alchohol. 2. On
wines of all kinds imported in bottles, not otherwise herein provided for, the same rate as upon wines imported in casks, and
the bottles to pay three cents each in addition. 3. On champagne and other sparkling wines, six dollars per dozen for quart
bottles, and other sums specified for smaller bottles.
After making these subjects of taxation, the section puts
forth two provisos: 1st, That any liquors entered under the
name of wine, containing more than twenty-two per centum of
alcohol, shall be forfeited to the United States. This follows
immediately after what has been before recited, and applies to
all that precedes it. Any liquor entered as wine, which contains more than twenty-two per centum of alcohol, whether it
is entered as wine generally, or champagne or sparlling wine, is
condemned to the use of the United States. The second proviso
is, that packages of wines, brandies, or other spirituous liquors,
shall contain not less than one dozen bottles in each package;
and all such bottles shall pay an additional duty of three cents
for each bottle. Both branches of this proviso include all the
liquors that have before been referred to. If still wine, or
sparkling wine, brandy, or other spirituous liquors, is imported
in bottles, there shall be not less than one dozen bottles in each
package. This seems too plain for discussion. The section
adds, and in language also embracing every kind of wine,
brandy, or other spirituous liquors, that "all such bottles shall
pay an additional duty of three cents for each bottle."
2. The tax upon the bottles is not only within the language,
but it is also within the spirit and meaning, of the statute. A
tax of three cents upon the bottle may seem too trifling to have
been intended, where a tax of fifty cents upon the contents has
already been imposed. That this is not so is apparent from the
effort here made to avoid the tax, as well as from the allegation
of the complaint that $5,218.68 has been thus paid by this sinDecember,
gle firm within a period of three months, -from
1872, to February, 1873.

Oct. 1876.]

DEBARY v. ARTHUR, COLLECTOR.

423

Again: the customs acts from the earliest years of the government impose duties on liquors not only, but on the vessels
containing them. This is not confined to any particular kind
of liquor. The practice has been general and quite uniform.
Act of July 4, 1789, 1 Stat. 25; June 29, 1795, 1 Stat. 411;
Aug. 30, 1842, 5 Stat. 553; March 2, 1861, 12 Stat. 180;
July 14, 1862, 12 Stat. 544; Feb. 8, 1875, 18 Stat. 307.
We do not see that the case is altered by the fact proved by
an expert, that champagne must necessarily l6e imported in
bottles. It is manufactured. in bottles ; that is to say, the
process of fermentation by which the sparkling quality is communicated to the wine takes place, and mist take place, after
the vine. is put into the bottle, and it cannot be removed from
the bottle without practically destroying it. There is no reason to suppose tbht Congress was influenced in the least by
a consideration whether a particular kind of wine could be
imported in the cask, or must come in bottles. Champagne is
a beverage singularly grateful to the taste, and is indulged in
by those who are supposed to be able and willing to pay the
tax upon it. It is an article of high luxury, and, upon the
soundest principles of economy, should pay a high tax, that articles of necessity may, if possible, go untaxed. It is not strange,
therefore, that in an act entitled an act to reduce internal taxation, and when the annual duties were reduced by many millions, the duty on champagne, and the packages in which it is
imported, was retained at its height.
Differing from the former acts, this act provides that all
wines imported in casks shall pay a prescribed duty upon the
quantity, and also an ad valorem duty; while all wines in bottle pay a duty on the quantity and on the bottle.
We cannot recognize the argument that Congress, 'knowing
that champagne, when imported, must come in bottles, considered the bottle a component part of the article, and no more
intended its taxation than the cask in which brandy is imported. If Congress had used such language as declared an
imposition of six dollars on a dozen bottles of champagne and
then stopped, there might have been plausibility in the comparison. But when it imposes a duty "on brandy and other
spirits manufactured from grain, of two dollars per gallon,"

OSTERBERG V. UNION TRUST CO.

[Sup. Ct.

and then stops, but taxes champagne in bottles, and declares
in words that each bottle shall also be taxed, the argument is
at an end. The authorities cited on this branch of the case are
all within the principles we have laid down. We find nothing
in them in conflict with these positions.
Nor do we attach importance to the manner in which the
paragraph of the statute we are considering is divided. Wines,
and apparently the entire class of wines, is the subject of this
paragraph.
*Whiskey of domestic manufacture, spirituous
liquors of whatever character, imported from other countries,
are elsewhere taxed. Here Congress was giving its attention
to the subject of wines. It intended to include as subjects of
taxation wine of every character, and whether imported in
casks or bottles. Duties were imposed upon it in each form as
prescribed, unless it contained more than twenty-two per centum
of alcohol, in which case it was declared to be forfeited.
Whether the provision for taxing the bottle should be found
in one place or another, we do not consider very material. Is
it there, is the question. We find the duty on the bottle
plainly laid in two different parts of the paragraph, and we are
all of the opinion that it applies to champagne as well as to
other wines.
Judgment affirmed.

OSTERBERG V.

UNioN TRUST COMPANY.

1. A lien for taxes does not stand upon the footing of an ordinary incumbrance;
and, unless otherwise directed by statute, is not displaced by a sale of the
property under a pre-existing judgment or decree.
2. As the rule of caveat eniptor applies to a purchaser at a judicial sale, under a
decree foreclosing a mortgage, lie cannot retain from his bid a sum sufficient to pay a part of the taxes on the property which were a subsisting lien
at the date of the decree of foreclosure.
3. Where such a purchaser, having failed to punctually comply with the terms
of sale, is granted an extension of time by the court, the property in the
mean time to remain in the possession of a receiver, he is not entitled to any
of the earnings of the property while it so remains in the possession of the
latter, nor is lie in a position to question the orders of the court as to their
application.
4. Before the commencement of a suit to foreclose a mortgage, some of the
lands covered by it had been transferred to a trustee, by way of indem-

