EX PARTE PARKS.

[Sup. Ot.

ing below; that the order striking out the answer and the final
judgment rendered should be reversed, and the case remanded
to the Circuit Court for-further proceedings.
It is 8o ordered.

EX PARTE PARKS.
1.- Where an inferior court has jurisdiction of the cause and the person in a
criminal suit, and no writ of error lies from this court, it will not on habeas
corpus review the legality of the proceedings.
2. It is only where the proceedings below are entirely void, either for want of
jurisdiction; or other cause, that such relief will be given.
3. Whether a matter for which a party is indicted in the District Court is, or is
not, a crime against the laws of the United States, is a question within the
jurisdiction of that court, which it must decide. Its decision will not be
reviewed here by habeas corpus.
4. .Ex parte Yerger, 8 Wall. 86, and B: parte Lange, 18 id. 163, referred to and
approved.

MR. WriIAx GRiEBY presented the petition of Richard S.
Parks praying for a writ of habeas corpus.
The petition is set forth, and the facts. in the case are stated,
in the opinion of the court.
MR. JusTICE BRADLEy delivered the opinion of the court.
The petitioner for Jabeas corpus in this case was convicted
of forgery in the District Court of the United States for the
Western District of Viijinia, and is in custody by virtue of a
commitment under sentence of imprisonment in the penitentiary for said offence. Complaining that his conviction was
illegal, by reason that the act for which he was.convicted was
not a crime against the laws of the United. States, he applied
to the circuit judge for a habeas corpus, and, after a hearing
'thereon, was remanded into custody. Not being satisfied with
this decision, h now applies to this court for a habeas corpus.
His petition is as follows: "To. the HTonorable Mhorrison B. Waite, Chief ,Tustice, and his
Associates, J7ustices of the Supreme Court of the United
States:
"The petition *ofRichard S. Parks respectfully represents, that
your petitioner is illegally confined in jail, at Harrisonburg, in Vir-

Oct. 1876.]

Ex

PARTE PARKS.

ginia, being in the custody of A. S. Gray, as Marshal of the United
States for the Western District of Virginia, by virtue of a commitment under an illegal sentence of the District Court of the United
States for the said district, the same (sentence) being void and in
law a nullity, for want of jurisdiction in the said court to pass it
upon and against your petitioner, which said sentence was pronounced in a case of the United States against your petitioner, a
transcript of the record whereof is herewith presented. That your
petitioner heretofore made application to the honorable judge of
Circuit Court of the United States for the said district, that he
would order the discharge of your petitioner upon a writ of habeas
-corpus sued out for that object; but his honor, the said judge of
the Circuit Court, instead of discharging, remanded him to the
custody of the said marshal, as will appear from a transcript of his
order in the said matter, which transcript is likewise herewith presented. And that your petitioner therefore prays at your honors'
hands the benefit of the writ of habeas corpus, to be directed to
the said marshal, commanding him to have before your honors, at
a day and place to be named therein, the body of your petitioner,
together with the cause of his capture and detention, to undergo
and receive whatsoever your honors shall then and there consider
of him in that behalf.
"And.your petitioner will ever pray, &c.
"RICH'D S. PARKS."

The transcript of the record of conviction, which accompanies the petition, shows that the petitioner was indicted for
forging the signature of C. Douglass Gray, register in bankruptdy, to the following receipt: ":HARRSONBURG, July 30, 1872.
"Received of J. D. Martin, by R: S. Parks, his attorney, the
application, with necessary papers, for adjudication in bankruptcy
of said Martin; also, $50, amount of required deposit.
"C. DOUGLASS GRAY, .RegSter."
One count of the indictment charges that Parks committed
the forgery for the purpose of authenticating the commencement of proceedings in bankruptcy in the case of J. D. Martin.
Another count alleges'the purpose to have been to authenticate
a proceeding in the said case; namely, the filing of the paper
with the register. There was a third count, which did not
state the purpose.

[Sup. Ct.

Ex PARTE PARKS.

The petitioner contends that the forging of this receipt is
not a crime by any act of Congress, and that, as the courts of
the United States have no. common-law jurisdiction of crimes,
the -District Court had nb jurisdiction to try him for the
offence. The indictment is founded on the forty-sixth section
of the Bankrupt Act (re-enacted and made more general in
sect. 5419 of the Revised Statutes), which declares, that "if
any person shall forge the signature of a judge, register, or
other officer of the court, or knowingly concur in using any
such forged or counterfeited -signature . . for the purpose of
authenticating any proceeding or document,

.

. .

such person

-shall be guilty 'of felony," &c. The petitioner insists that the
paper whose forgery is charged is not a document which could
be used in evidence in any proceeding, by reason of its being
authenticated by the official signature of the register. This
proposition may le questioned. But suppose it were true, the
receipt could be used in evidence, if genuine, for
the purpose
of showing, the fact stated therein as against the signer in his
-official as well as private capacity. At all event, it'is not.clear
and free from all doubt that the forgery is not 'within the terms
of the statute.
But the question whether 'it was or was not a crime within
the statute was one which the District Court was competent
to decide. It was before the colirt, and within its jurisdiction.No other court, except the Circuit Court for the same district,
having concurrent jurisdiction, was. as competent to decide the
qiestion as the District Court.
Whether an act charged in an indictment is or is not a
crime by the law-which the clo.urt administers (in this case the
statute law of the United States), is a question which ,has
toJbe met at almost every stage of criminal proceedings; on
motions to quash the indictment, on demurrers, on motions to
arrest judgment, &c. The court may err, but it has jurisdiction of the question. If it errs, there is no remedy after final
of error lies to some Superior Court;
judgment, unless a
and no such writ lies in this 'case. It would be an assumption
of authority for this court, by means of the writ of habeas corpus, to review every case in which the defendant attempts to
controvert the criminality of the offnce charged in the indict'%.rit

Oct. 1876.]

Ex

PARTE PARKS.

ment. It having been held that the regulation of the appellate power of this court was conferred upon Congress, and
Congress having given an appeal or writ of error in only certain specified cases, the implication is irresistible,, that those
errors and irregularities, which can only be reviewed by appeal
or writ of error, cannot be reviewed in this court in any other
cases than those in which. those processes are given. Now, it
has always been held that a mere error in point of law, committed by a court in a case properly subject to its cognizance,
can only be reviewed by the ordinary m.ethods of appeal or
-writ of error; but that where the proceedings are not only er-roneous, but entirely void, - as where-the court is without jurisdiction of the person or of the cause, and a party is subjected
to illegal imprisonment in consequence, -the Superior Court,
or judge invested with the prerogative power of issuing a habeas
corpus, may review the proceedings by that writ, and discharge
from illegal imprisonment. This is one of the'modes in which
this court exercises supervisory power over interior courts and
tribunals; but it is a special mode, and confined to a limited
class of cases.
The general principles upon which the writ of habeas corpus
is issued in England were well settled by usage and statutes
long before the period of our national independence, and must
have been in the mind of Congress when the power to issue
the writ was given to the courts and judges of the United
States. These principles, subject to the limitations imposed
by the Federal Constitution and laws, are to be referred to for
our guidance on the subject. A brief reference to the principal authorities will suffice on this occasion.
Lord Coke, before the Habeas Corpus Act was passed, excepted from the privilege of the writ persons imprisoned upon
conviction for a crime, or in execution. 2 Inst. 52-; Com. Dig.,
Hab. Corp. B.
The Habeas Corpus Act itself excepts those committed or
detained for treason or felony plainly expressed in the warrant, and persons, convict, or in execution -by legal process.
Com. Dig., Hab. Corp. B.
Lord Hile says, "If it appear by the return of the writ
that the party be wrongfully committed, or by one that hath

Ex PARTE PARKS.

[Sup. Ct.

not jurisdiction, or for a cause for which a man ought not to
be imprisoned, he shall be discharged or bailed." 2 Hale's H.
P. 0. 144.
Chief Baron Gilbert sayd, "If the commitment be against
law, as being made by one who.had no jurisdiction of the
cause, or for a matter for which by law no man ought to be
punished, the court are to discharge. Bac. Abr., Hab. Corp.
B, 10.
. These extracts are sufficient to show, that, when a person is
convict or in execution by legal process issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction, no relief can be had. Of course, a
superior court will interfere if the inferior court had exceeded
its jurisdiction, or was not competent to act.
The courts of the United States derive their jurisdiction
on this subject from the Constitution and laws of the United
States. The fourteenth section of the Judiciary Act granted
to all the courts power to issue writs of scire facias, habeas
corpus,,and all- other xvrits necessary for the exercise of their
respective jurisdictions, and agfeeable to the principles and
usages oi law; and to the justices and judges, poWer to grant
writs of habeas 6'rpus for the purpose 6f inquiry into the cause
of comjmitment- but it added-'a proviso, that the writ should
not extefid to prisoners in jail, uiless in custody under or by
coloat of authority of the Tnited States, or committed for trial
before some court of the same, or necessary to be brought into'
court to testify. It was found hcessary to relax the limitation
.contained in this ]proviso, "and this was done in severtl
subsequent laws. . See act of 1833 (4 Stat. 64), passed in consequence of nullification proceedings in South Carolina; act of
1842 (5 Stat. 539), passed in consequence of the .McLeod Case;
and act of 1867 (14 Stat. 44), passed in consequence of the
state of things that followed the late rebellion.
The power of the Supreme Court is subject to a further
limitation, arising from its constitutional want of original jurisdiction on the subject; from whence it follows that, except in
aid of some other a eknowledged jurisdiction, it can only issue
the writ to review the action of some inferior court or officer.
Exz "arte Barry,-2 How. 65.
From this review of the law it is apparent, therefore, as

Oct. 1876.]

Ex PARTE PARKS.

before suggested, that in a case like the present, where the
prisoner is in execution upon a conviction, the writ ought not
to be issued, or, if issued, the prisoner should at once be remanded, if the court below had jurisdiction of the offence,
and did no act beyond the powers conferred upon it. The
court will look into the proceedings so far as to determine this
question. If it finds that the court below ha- transcended its
powers, it will grant the writ and discharge the prisoner, even
after judgment. Ex parte Kearney, 7 Wheat. 38; Ex parte
Wells, 18 How. 307; Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163. But if
the court had jurisdiction and power to convict and sentence,
the writ cannot issue to correct a mere error. We have shown
that the court below had power to determine the question before it: and that this is so, is further manifest from the language of Chief Justice Marshall in the case of Tobias Watkins,
3 Pet. 203. He there says, "To determine whether the
offence charged in the indictment be legally punishable or not,
is among the most unquestionable of its [the court's] powers
and duties."
But after the thorough investigation which has been given
to this subject in previous cases, paficularly those of Ex parte
Yerger, 8 Wall. 85, and Ex parte Lange, 18 id. 163, it is unnecessary to pursue the subject further at this time.
The last-mentioned case is confidently relied on as a precedent for allowing the writ in this case. But the two are totally
unlike. In Ex. parte Lange we proceeded on the ground, that,
when the court rendered its second judgment, the case was
entirely out of its hands. It wasfunctus officio in regard to it.
The judgment first rendered had been executed and satisfied.
The subsequent proceedings were, therefore, according to our
view, void.
But, in the case before us, the District Court had plenary
jurisdiction; both of the person, the place, the cause, and every
thing about it. To review the decision of that court by means
of the writ of habeas eorpus would be to convert that writ into
a mere writ of error, ind to assume an appellate power which
has never been confered upon this court.
Since the cause was-submitted to the court, the learned
counsel for the petitioner has called its attention to the case

24

NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO. v. STATHAM ET -AL.

[Sup. Ct.

of Booth and .Rycroft, 3 Wis. 157, as a case precisely in point
in favor of granting the writ. It had probably escaped the
recollection of counsel that this very case was reversed by this
court in Ableman v. Booth, 21 How. 506, in which Chief Justice Taney delivered one of his -most elaborate and able
opinions.
As the entire record has been brought before us by the petition, and we are clear as to ourwant of authority to discharge
the prisoner, the application for the writ is
-Denied.

N:Ew YoRK LIFE INSURANCE COM
SA

-ANY
v. STATHAM ET AL.

v. SEYIS.

MANiATTAN LIFE I:NSU.R"c

ComTAi

v. Bucx,

EXECUTOR.
I.

-A policy of life assurance which stipulates for the payment of an annual pemilim by the assured, with a condition" to be void on non-pajment, is not
an insurance from year to year, like a common fire policy; but the premiums constitute an annuity', the whole of which is the consideration for the
entire dssurance for life; and the condition is a condition subsequent,
making, by its Tnon-performance, the policy void.
2. The time of payment in such a policy is material, and of.the essence of the
contract; and a failure to pay involves an absolute forfeiture, which
cannot be relieved against in equity.
3. If a failure to pay the annual premium be caused by the intervention of war
between the territories in which the insurance company and the assured
respectively reside, which makes it unlawful for them to hold intercourse,
the policy is nevertheless forfeited if the company insist on the condition;
but in suoh case the assured is. entitled to the equitable value of the policy
arising from the premiums actually paid.
4. This equitable value is the difference between the cast of a new policy and
the present value of the premiums yet to be paid on the forfeited policy
when the forfeiture occurred, and may be recovered in an action at law or
a suit in equity.
5. The doctrine of revival of contracts, suspended diiing the war, is based oxi
considerations of equity and 'justice, and cannot be invdked to revive a contract which it would be unjust or inequitable to revive,-as where tfme is
of the essence of the contract, of the parties cannot be made equal. 6. The average rate of mortality is the fundamental basis of -life assuranceand
as this is subverted by. giving to the assured the option to revive their policies or not after they have been-suspended by a war tsince none but the
sick and dying would apply), it would be unjust to compel a revival against
the company.

-

