CR MEUNG CANAL BANK V. Lowny.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

ir. Henry Cooper for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. John Baxter, contra.
i. CHIEF JuS~ioE WAITE delivered the opinion of the.
court.
The act of March 2, 1867, provided, in substance, that
where a suit was pending in a State court, between a citizen
of the State in which the suit was brough-t and a citizen of
another State, and the matter in dispute' exceeded the siim
of $500, such citizen of another State, whether plaintiff or
defendant, if he made and filed in such State court an affidavit, stating "that he has reason to and does believe that, from
prejudice or local influence, he will not be able to obtain justice in such State court," might have the cause removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States. Here the suit was brought
in a court of the State of Tennessee, by a citizen of that State,
against a citizen of the State of Georgia. Under the statute,
the party who was a citizen of Tennessee could not have- the
cause removed to the Circuit Court, because he was a citizen
of the State in which the suit was brought, and not of " another
State;" but the citizen of Georgia could. In this case, the removal was made upon the application of the party who was a
citizen of Tennessee, and, consequently, the Circuit Court properly refused to entertain jurisdiction.
Judgment affirmed.

CHEMUI G CANAL BAxK v. LowERY.
1. The English rule, that the Statute of Limitations cannot be set up by demurrer in actions at law, does not prevail in the courts of the United States sitting in Wisconsin.
2. The distinction between actions at law and suits in equity has been abolished
by the code of that State; and the objection that suit was not brought within
the time limited therefor, if the lapse of time appears in the complaiit without any statement to rebut its effect, may be made by way of demurrer, if.
the point is thereby specially taken. If the plaintiff relies on a subsequent
promise, or on a paynent to revive the cause of action, he must set it up in
his original complaint, or ask leave to amend.
3. A provision to the effect, thlt, when the defendant is out' of the State, the
Statute of Limitations shall not run against the plaintiff, if the latter resides
in the State, but shall if he resides out of the State, is not repugnant to the
second section of the fourth article of the Constitution of the United States,
which declares that " the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all-the
privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States."

Oct. 1876.]

OHEDIUNG CANAL BANK v. LOWERY.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Wisconsin.
It appears by the complaint in this cause, that the plaintiff
recovered a judgment against the defendants in New York, on
the fourteenth day of June, 1862, for upwards. of 615,000,
plaintiff being a corporation of New York, and the
-the
defendants all having appeared in the suit. The present
suit was brought on that judgment; but only one of the defendants was served with process, the others residing out of the
jurisdiction of the court. The complaint states that the defendant, who was served with process, was when served, aid still is,
a citizen and resident of Wisconsin, but that lie did not come
into the State, and was not a resident thereof, until the year
1864. This action was commenced on the 24th of January,
1873, - a little more-than 'ten years after the recovery of the
judgment in New York, and less than ten years after the
defendant, who was served, came into the State. The plaintiff
demands judgment against the defendant now before the
court.
The defendant filed the following demurrer to the complaint,
to wit "Th1e defendant, Goodwin Lowery, demurs to the plaintiff's complaint in this action, for that it appears upon the face of the same
that the plaintiff's claim or demand is barred by the Statute -of
Limitations, in that it appears that the -supposed oause or causes of
action did not, nor did either of them, accrue to the said plaintiff
at any time within six years, nor at any time within ten years next
before the commencement of this action, and for that the said complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action."
Upon this demurrer the court gave judgment for the defendant. To reverse this judgment, the prdsent writ of error was
brought.
Argued by Mr. William P. Lgnde for the plaintiff in error.
Under the statute of Wisconsin, objection that the -action
was not commenced within the term limited can only be taken
by answer. Rev. Stat. W/is., c. 138, sect. 1. Where the common-law pleadings, prevail, a party seeking to avail himself of
the Statute of Limitations must plead it specially. . Briccet v.
,Davis, 21 Pick. 404; Gould v. Johnson,*2 Ld. Raym. 838;

74

CHEMUNG CANAL BANK v. LoWERY.

[Sup. Ct.

Puckel v. MUoore, 3 Vent. 191; Jacksan v. Varick, 2 Wend.
294; .Robins v. Harvey, 5 Conn. 335.
As the plaintiff might have been within some of the various
exceptions.mentioned by statute, the demurrer should have been
overruled. Angell on Lim., c. 26, sect. 1; State v. Finch,
Cro. Car. 381; Hawkins v. Billhead, id. 404; Hyde v. Van
Valkenburgh, 1 Daly, (N. Y.), 416.
The statute on which the defence is founded denies to citizens of other States the rights and immunities which it accords
to her own, and is, therefore, in violation of the Constitution of
the United States. Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C. 381;
Ward v. aryland, 12 Wall. 430; Slaughter-house Cases, 16
id. 117; Cooley, on Const. Lim. 16; id. 397.
3Ir. S. U. Pinney, contra.
The distinction between actions at law and suits in equity
has been abolishedin Wisconsin. Rev. Stat. Wis., c. 122, sect. 8.
Therefore, where the defence of the Statute of Limitations is
apparent on the'face of the complaint, the objection that the
demand is barred by lapse of time may be taken' by demurrer.
-Howell v. Ho'well, 15 .Wis. 55.
Such being the practice in the State courts, those of the.United
States sifting in that State are bound tb adopt it. 17 Stat. 197.
The plaintiff in error is not a citizen within the meaning of
that Word, but a corporation of another State. It therefore has
no status or standing in the courts of Wisconsin to enable it to
invoke the protection of the Constitution of the ,United Stat9s.
Warren Manuf. Co. v. .,tnaInsurance Co., 2 Paine, C. C. 516;
.Paulv. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Bank of Augusta v. Earl, 13
Pet. 586.
It is submitted that the statute of which plaintiff in error
complains does not abridge or deny the-privileges or immunities of' citizens of other States within the meaning-of the Constitution, but is a mere regulation of the remedies which 'the
State, by virtue of its sovereignty and according to its own
notions of policy, may constitutionally adopt.
MR.Jusvac. BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
-The errors assigned in this case are substantially two: First,
that.the Statute, of Limitations cannot be set up by demurrer;

Oct. 1876.]

CHEfIUNG CANAL BANK V. LoWERY.

and, secondly, that the statute on which the defence is founded
is unconstitutional in this, that it unjustly discriminates in
favor of the citizens of Wisconsin against the citizens of other
States; for, if the plaintiff had been a citizen of Wisconsin,
instead of a citizen of New York, the statute would not have
applied.
As to the first assignment, it is undoubtedly true, that the
Statute of Limitations cannot, by the English practice, be set
up by demurrer in actions at law, though it may be in certain
cases in suits in equity. And this rule obtains wherever the
English practice prevails. But where the forms of proceeding
have been so much altered as they have been in Wisconsin,
further inquiry must be made. In the first place, by the Revised Statutes of .that State, passed in 1858, in the title "Of
proceedings in civil actions,". it is declared that "the distinction
between actions at law and suits in equity, and the forms of all
such actions and suits heretofore existing, are abolished; and
there shall be in this State but one form of action for the
enforcement or protection of private rights and the redress of
private wrongs, which -shall be denominated- a civil action."
Rev. Stat: 714. Secondly, that "all the forms of pleading
heretofore existing are abolished." The act proceeds to declare
that the first pleading on the part of the plaintiff is the complaint, which shall contain, amongst other things," a plain and
concise statement of the facts constituting a cause of action
without unnecessary repetition." Rev. Stat. 721. It provides
that the defendant may demur for certain causes, but that other
defences must be taken by answer. Id. Amongst the grounds
of demuirer, one is, "that the complaint does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action-" In another title, "Of the limitation of actions," - it is provided that "the
objection that the action was not commenced within the time
limited can- only be taken ,by answer." Rev. Stat. 819. But
the Supreme Court of- Wisconsin has decided, that, when'on
the face of the complaint itself it appears that the staiutory
time has run- before the commencement of the action, 'the
defence -may be taken by demurrer, which, for that purpose, is
a sufficient ansiwer. Howell v. Howell, 15 Wis. 55. This case
has been recognized in later cases (see Tarbox v. Si84e'rvisors,

CHEMUNG CANAL BANK v.

LOWERY.

[Sup. Ct;.

34 Wis. 561), and must be regarded as expressing the law of
the State.. On the first hearing of the case of Howell v. Howell,
5ome importance was attached to the fact that it was an equity
case, in which class of cases a demurrer has been allowed for
setting up the Statute of Limitations; but, on a rehearing, a
more enlarged view was taken, and a demurrer was regarded as
sufficient in all cases where the lapse of time appears in the
6omplaint without any statement to rebut its effect, and where'
the point igspecially taken by the demurrer. If the plaintiff
relies on a subsequent promise, or -n a payment, to revive. the
dause of action, he must set it up in the original complaint, or
ask leave to amend. Without this precaution, the complaint
is defective in not stating, as required by the statute, facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. But, although defective,
advantage cannot be taken of the defect on motion, or in any
other way than by answer; which answer, however, as we have
seen, may be a demurrer.
As this is the law of Wisconsin, the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Wisconsin is bound
by it ; and, as the decision in the principal case accords therewith, the first assignment of error cannot be sustained.
The other assignment calls in question the constitutionality
of the Statute of Limitations itself. The statute having prescribed the time within which various actions must be brought,
amongst others, that "an action upon a judgment or decree
of any court of record of any State or Territory of the United
States, or of any court of the United States," must be brought
within ten years, - it declares, that "if, when the cause of action
shall accrue against any person, he shall be out of the State,
such action may be commenced within the terms herein respec-'
tively limited, after the return of said person into this State.
But the foregoing pto'vision shall not apply to any case, where,
at the time the cause of action shall accrue, neither the party
against or in favor of whom the same shall accrue are residents
of this State." Rev. Stat. Wis. 822. This statute may be e pressed shortly thus: When the defendant is out of the State,
the Statute-of Limitatibns shall-not run against the plaintiff, if
the latder resides in the State, but shall, if he resides out of the
State. The argument of the plaintiff is, that, as the law refuses

Oct. 1876.]

CHEMUNG CANAL BANK

v. LoWERY.

to non-residents of the State an exemption from its provisions,
which is accorded to residents, it is repugnant to that clause of
the Constitution of the United States (art. 4, sect. 2) which
declares that "the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all
the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States."
It is contended, that, if the resident creditors of the State may
sue their non-resident debtors, at any time within six or ten
years after they return to the State, non-resident creditors ought
to have the same privilege; or else an unjust and unconstitutional discrimination is made against them. This seems, at first
view, somewhat plausible; but we d'o not regard the argument
as a sound one. There is, in fact, a valid reason for the discrimination. If the statute does not iun as between non-resident creditors and their debtors, it might often happen that a
right of action would be extinguished, perhaps for years, in the
State where the parties reside.; and yet, if the defendant should
be found in Wisconsin, - it may be only in a railroad train, a suit could be sprung upon him after the claim had been forgotten. The laws of Wisconsin would thus be used as a trap
to catch the unwary defendant, after the laws which had always
governed the case had barred any recovery. This would be
inequitable and unjust. Beardsley v. Southmayd, 3 N. J. L.
(Green) 171.
It is also to be considered, that a personal obligation is due
at the domiicile of the obligee. It is the duty of the debtor to
seek the creditor, and pay him his debt, at the residence of the
latter. Not doing this, he is guilty of laches against the law of
the creditor's domicile; as well as his own. But he evades this
law by absenting himself from the jurisdiction. As long as he
does this, the Statute of Limitations of that jurisdiction ought
not to run to the creditor's prejudice. This cannot be said with
regard to the non-resident creditor. It is not the laws of Wisconsin any more than those of China which his non-resident
debtor contemns by non-payment of the debt, and absence from
the State: it is the laws of some other State. Therefore, there
is no reason why the Statute of Limitations of Wisconsin should
hot run as against the non-resident creditor; at least, there is
not the same reason which exists in the case of the resident
creditor. If the non-resident creditor wishes to keep his action

RYAN ET AL., V. CARTER ET AL.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

alive in other States than his own, he must reduce it to judgment, and revive that judgment from time to time. Each new
judgment would create a new cause of action, and would prevent the operation of Statutes of Limitation of other States.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the law in question does
not produce any unconstitutional discrimination; and we prefer
putting the case upon this broad ground, rather than to examine
into -the rights of the plaintiffs as a foreign corporation doing
Judgment affirmed.
business in Wisconsin.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG concurred in the judgment of the

court, but -dissented from its opinion upon the second assignment of error.

-R'

xi BT AL. V. CARTER -ET AL.

1. The flrstsection of the act of June 13, 1812 (2 Stat. 748), making further provision for settling the claims to land in the Territory of Missouri, confirms,
proprio vigare, the rights, titles, and claims to the lands embraced by it, and,
to all intents and purposes, operates as a grant.
2. The court adheres to the doctrine, announced in -its previous decisions, that a
confirriatory"statute passes a title as effectually as if it in terms contained a
grant de iovo, and that a grant may be made by a law as well as by a patent
pursuant to law.
8. Said first section is not, by the proviso.thereto annexed, excluded from ope-.
.ating on the right and claim of an inhabitant of a village which is therein
named to an'out-lot, whose title thereto had, on his petition, been recognized
and confirmed by the board of commissioners for adjusting and settling
claims to land in said Territory.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Easterni'Distric of Missouri.
This is an action of ejectment, bro.ught Aug. 27, 1873, for
part of a tract of land known as Survey 422, situate in the
county of' St. Louis, Mo. The parties claimed title under
Auguste Dodier, and defendants relied also on the §tatute of
Limitations.
On the 13th of October,-1800, Dodier asked of the then Spanish
Lieutenant-Governor of Upper Louisiana a concession of five
hundred aqpens of land,; and, on the 14th of that month, the
Lieutenant-Governor ordered that he .should be put in posses-

