Oct. 1876.]

TALTY v. FREEDMAN'S SAVINGS & TRUST Co.

321

MR. CmaEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

It is clear 'we have no jurisdiction in this cause. The judgment of the Supreme Court is not the final judgment in the
suit. It disposed finally of one of the questions involved in the
suit, but not of the suit itself. The suit is still pending in
the District Court, and it is not impossible that the parties now
complaining may be satisfied with the judgment which they
may in the end be able to secure in the State courts. If not,
after a final judgment has in fact been rendered by the highest
court of the State in which a decision in the suit can be had,
the case may be again brought here for a determination of the
questions arising upon the petition for removal. But in the
present condition of the record the writ must be
Dismissed.

TALTY v. FREEDMAN'S SAvnTGS AND TRUST COXANY.Where the pledgee parts with the pledge to a bona fide purchaser without notice
of any righjtor claim of the pledgor, the latter cannot recover against such
purchaser without first tendering him the amount due on the pledge.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District-of Columbia.
This was replevin by the plaintiff to recover a collateral security pledged to one Kendig, a broker, and by him sold to the
defendant. Under the instructions of the court below, the jury
found a verdict for the defendant; judgment was rendered
thereon, and the plaintiff sued out this writ of error. The
facts are fully set forth in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Joseph H. Bradley for the plaintiff in error.
The chattel replevied was a mere chose in action, and was not
assigned by the owner. His indorsement in blank did not, at
law, transfer any title to it.
Kendig had merely the option to purchase the collateral if
the note was not paid.
If the plaintiff's testimony was true, no tender or offer of
payment .to the defendant was necessary.
Wilson v. Little
et al., 2 Comst. 443.
VOL. Ill.

21

322

TALTY v. FREEDMAN'S SAVINGS &

TRUST Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. Enoch Totten for the defendant in-error.
The rule of exemption as to tender does not apply in a suit
against a bona fide purchaser to recover possession of the pledge.
Tender to the defendant of the amount due by the plaintiff
on his note was necessary to enable him to recover. Demainbray v. Metcalf, 2 Vern. 691; Little v. Baker, Hoff. Ch. 487;
Jarvis's Adm. v. Rodgers, 15 Mass. 408; Baldwin v. .Ely,
9 How. 580; 3 Pars. on Contr. 274; Story on Bailm., sect. 327;
Lewis v. Mott, 36 N. Y. 395; Donald v. Suckling, Law Rep.
I Q. B. 585; Johnson v. Stear, 15 C. B. N. s. 330.
Mr. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of replevin, prosecuted by the plaintiff in
error. The judgment was against him. The bill of exceptions
discloses all the evidence given by both parties. The facts lie
within a narrow compass, and, except as to one point, which
in our view is of no consequence in this case, there is no disagreement between them.
Talty had a claim against the city of Washington for work
and materials, amounting to $6,096.75. " He submitted it to the
proper authority, and received the usual voucher. On the 4th
of January, 1872, the claim was approved by the commissioners
of audit, and a certificate to that effect was given to him. On
the 6th of that month he employed Kendig, a broker, to negotiate a loan for him. With that view he placed in Kendig's
hands his own note for $3,000, having sixty days to run, with
interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum, payable to his
own order, and indorsed by him in blank. He also placed
in the hands of Kendig, to be used as collateral, his claim
against the city, indorsed in blank also. The same day Kendig negotiated the loan and paid Talty the amount of the note,
less the discount. Kendig sold the claim against the city to
the defendant for ninety-six cents on the dollar. The money
was paid to him. The purchase was made in good faith, and
without notice of any right or claim on the part of Talty.
With the proceeds of this sale Kendig took up the note. A
few days before its maturity Talty called on Kendig and offered
to pay the note, and demanded back the collateral. Kendig
declined to accede to the proposition. He insisted that the

Oct. 1876.]

TALTY V. FREEDMAN'S SAVINGS

&

TRUST CO.

323

understanding between him and Talty was that he was to
receive no commission for negotiating the loan, but that he
was to have instead the right to sell or take the claim against
the city, if he chose to do so, at ninety cents on the dollar. iHe

offered to pay Talty for the claim, making the computation at
that rate, and deducting the amount of the note. This Talty
refused, and insisted that Kendig had no authority with respect
t6 the claim but to sell, in the event of default in the payment
of the note at maturity. Each party testified accordingly.
Subsequently, and after the maturity of the note, Talty demanded from the defendant in error the vouchers relating to

the claim.

The defendant refu~ed to give them up, and this

suit was thereupon instituted. The marshal took them under
the writ of replevin, and delivered them to the plaintiff.
No tender was made by Talty to the defendant in error, nor

to Kendig, and nothing was said by him upon the subject of
paying his note to either, except the offer to Kendig, as before
stated.
After receiving back the collateral, Talty was paid the full
amount of it by the commissioners of the sinking fund of the
city. The only dispute between the parties as to the facts was
that in relation to the authority of Kendig touching the claim.
Upon this state of the evidence the court instructed the jury
to find for the defendant, and to assess the damages at the
value of the claim. This was done, and judgment was entered
upon the verdict. The instruction was excepted to.
Before entering upon the examination of, the merits of the
controversy, it may be well to consider for a moment the situation of the several parties. Talty has received and holds the
proceeds of his note and the full amount of the collateral.
Kendig holds the note and the amount of the collateral, less
four per cent. The defendant in error, the bona fide purchaser
of the claim, is out of pocket the amount paid for it to Kendig,
and has the burden of this litigation and the security afforded
by the replevin bond of Talty.
The question to be determined is, whether a tender to the
defendant in error by Talty of the amount due on his note
before bringing this suit was indispensable to entitle him to
recover.

324

TALTY v. FREEDDEAN'S SAVINGS & TRUST CO.

[Sup. CL

Kendig was not a factor with a mere lien. He was a
pledgee. The collateral was placed in his hands to secure the
payment of the note. It was admitted by Talty that Kendig
was authorized to sell it if the note were not paid at maturity.
Kendig had a special property in the cQllateral. He was a
pawnee for the purposes of the pledge. Judge Story says
(Bailm. sects. 324-327), "The pawnee may by the common
law deliver over the pawn to a stranger for safe custody without consideration; or he may sell or assign all his interest
in the pawn; or he may convey the same interest conditionally, by way of pawn, to another person, without in either
case destroying or invalidating his security. But if the pawnee
should undertake to pledge the property (not being negotiable
securities) for a debt beyond his own, or to make a transfer
thereof as if he were the actual owner, it is clear that in such
case he would be guilty of a breach of trust, and his creditor
would acquire no title beyond that held by the pawnee."
"Whatever doubt may be indulged in, in the case of a mere
factor, it has been decided, in the case of a strict pledge, that, if
the pledgee transfers the same to his own creditor, the latter
may hold the pledge until the debt of the original owner is
discharged."
Numerous authorities are cited in support of these propositions. The subject as to the point last mentioned was learnedly
examined in Jarvis'sAdm. v. Rodgers, 15 Mass. 369. That was
the case of a re-pledge by the first pledgee. The rule of the
text as to the rights of the sub-pledgee was distinctly affirmed.
The case of Lewis v. Mott, 36 N. Y. 395, was in some of
its leading points strikingly like the case before us. There,
Brown had placed certain collaterals in the hands of Howe to
secure the payment of two promissory notes of Brown held by
Howe; Howe sold the notes and collaterals to Varnum; Brown
offered to pay Varnum the amount of the notes, and demanded
the collaterals; Varnum refused to give them up, and Brown
sued for them. The court said, "It must be bonceded that
Varnum, by the purchase of those securities from Howe, acquired
the lien and interest of Howe, whatever that may have been;
and the plaintiff's assignee, to have entitled himself to a redelivery of these securities, must have tendered the amount

Oct. 1876.]

TALTY v. FREEDMAN'S SAVINGS & TRUST Co.

325

of the lien. There was simply an offer to pay Varnum the
amount due upon these notes. It was unattended with any
tender of the amount due, and was insufficient to extinguish
the lien and thus entitle Brown to the return of the notes ...
The offer to pay is not the equivalent for an actual tender.
Bateman v. Pool, 15 Wend. 637; Strong v. Black, 46 Barb.
222; _Edmonson v. McLeod, 16 N. Y. 543." See also Baldwin
v. -Ely, 9 How. 580; Merchants' Bank v. The State Bank,
10 Wall. 604.
The English law is the same. In Donald v. Suckling, Law
Rep. 1 Q. B. 585, the case was this: A. deposited debentures with B. as security for the payment of a bill indorsed by
A. and discounted by B. It was agreed, that, if the bill was
not paid when due, B. might sell or otherwise dispose of the
debentures. Before the maturity of the bill, B. deposited the
debentures with C., to be held as security for a loan by him to
B. larger than the amount of the bill. The bill was dishonored;
and, while it was unpaid, A. sued C. in detinue for the debentures. It was held that A. could not maintain the suit without having paid or tendered to C. the amount of the bill. The
case was elaborately considered by the court. See also lMoore
v. Conham, Owen, 123; Batcliffe v. Davis, Yelv. 178; Johnson v. Cumming, Scott's C. B. N. s. 331.
A tender to the second pledgee of- the amount due from the
first pledgor to the first pledgee extinguishes ipso facto the
title of the second pledgee; but that there can be no recovery
against him without tender of payment is equally well settled.
Donald v. Suckling, supra; Jarvis's Adm. v. Rodgers, supra;
s. o. 13 Mass. 105.
But it is suggested that the note was in the bands of Kendig,
and that Talty could not, therefore, safely pay the amount due
upon it to the holder of the collateral. The like fact existed
in Donald v. Suckling. It is not adverted to in the arguments
of counsel, nor in the opinions of the judges in that case. It
could not, therefore, have been regarded by either as of any
significance. The answer here to the objection is obvious.
The iote, a few days before its maturity, was in the hands of
Kendig. There being no proof to the contrary, it is to be presumed to have remained there. This suit was commenced after

326

BRANT V. VIRGINIA COAL & IRON CO. ET AL.

[SuF. Ct.

it matured. Talty might then have paid the amount due upon
it to the defendant in error, and could thereupon have defended succssfully in a suit on the note, whether brought by
Kendig or any indorsee taking it after due. He might also,
after making the tender, have filed his bill in equity, making
Kendig and the savings-bank defendants, and thus have settled
the rights of all the parties in that litigation. Having sued at
law without making the t~nder, it is clear he was not entitled
to recover.
The instruction given by the court to the jury was, therefore, correct.
" The proceeding and judgment were according to the local
law regulating the action of replevin in the District of
Columbia.
In the discussion here our attention was called only to the
question of tender: nothing was said as to the rule of damages laid down by the court below.
Ther6 is another question arising upon the record, and that
is, whether the defendant in error, being a bona fide purchaser,
did not, under the circumstances, acquire the absolute ownership of the claim. Story on Agency, sect. 127; Addis v.
Baker, 2 Anst. 229; MNiel v. The Tenth National Bank,
46 N. Y. 325; Tatman v. Lobach, 1 Duer, 524; Weirick v.
The Mahoning County Bank, 16 Ohio, 297; Fullertonv. Sturgess, 4 Ohio St. 529.

But as the point has not been argued, we express no opinion
upon the subject.
Judgment affirmed.

BRANT v. VIRGINIA COAL AND IRON CoMPAN-Y et al.
1. Where a testator made a bequest to his wife of all his estate, real and persounal, "to have and to hold during her life, and to do with as she sees proper
before her death," the wife took a life-estate in the property, with only such
power as a life-tenant can have, and her conveyance of the real property
passed no greater interest.
2. For the application of the doctrine of equitable estoppel, there must generally
be sbme intended deception in the conduct or declarations of the party to
be estopped, or such gross negligence on his part as amounts to constructive
fraud, by which another has been misled to his injury.
8. Where the estoppel relates to the title of real property, it is essential to the

