Oct. 1876.]

CALLANAN V. HURLEY.

said, in what character and in whose behalf he paid the money,
and whose money it was with which the note was paid.
In Harbeck v. Vanderbilt, 20 N. Y. 395, it was held, that
when the amount due upon a judgment is paid, wholly or in
part, by one who is not a party nor bound by it, the judgment
is extingtishe.d or not, according to the intention of the party
paying. So held, where one of the defendants in a judgment
upon a joint obligation paid his aliquot portion in cash, gave
his note for the remainder indorsed by a third person, and procured the judgment to be assigned to a trustee for such person,
without his knowledge. The judgment, it was held, remained
unsatisfied for the amount not actually paid by the defendant
therein, and might be enforced by the indorser as an indemnity
against his contingent liability.
In Keystone Bank v. Gay, 21 Barb. 459, the principle was
laid down, that to constitute payment, money, or some other
valuable thing, must be delivered by the debtor to the creditor
for the purpose of extinguishing the debt, and the creditor
must receive it for the same purpose.
Judgment affirmed.

CALLA-\:7A

v. HUiLEY.

I. A treasurer's deed for lands sold for delinquent taxes in the State of Iowa, if
substantially regular in form, is, under the statutes of that State, at least
prinafacie evidence that a sale was made; and, if there was a bonafide sale,
in substance or in fact, the deed is conclusive evidence that it was made at
the proper time and in the proper manner.
2. In a case where a tax-deed, regular in form, recited that the land was sold
Jan. 4, and where the treasurer certified that the sales of land for delinquent
taxes in the county began on that day, and were continued from day to day
until Jan. 18, and that lie entered all the sales as made on the- 4th, it was
held, that a sale of land at any time during the period from the 4th to the
18th was valid, and that recording such sale as made on the first day, though
actually-made later, did not impair the title.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
The complainant asserts title to the lands in controversy, by
virtue of his having entered them pursuant to the provisions of
the act of Congress; and the defendant Callanan claims to be

CALLANAN V. HURLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

the owner, by force of tax-deeds of the treasurer of the county
of Cass, founded on alleged sales made in January, 1864, for
delinquent taxes. These deeds, having been placed upon record,
are, as the plaintiff avers, a cloud upon his title, and the object
of his bill is to procure their cancellation. le charges that
they are void, for several reasons: Tirst, that no taxes were
levied upon the lands, or any of them, for the years for which
"theywere pretended to be sold; second, that the taxes, if any
there were, never became delinquent.; third, that there was no
person authorized to receive payment of the taxes; fourth,
that there was no warrant or authority for the sale of the lands
for the non-payment of delinquent taxes; and, fifth, that no
sale of the land for the non-payment of taxes, real or pretended, ever took place, but that certificates thereof were
issued, reciting, contrary to the truth, the sale of the lands conformably to the provisions of the statutes of the State, under
which certificates the deeds and conveyances were respectively
made. A subsequent amendment of the bill chaiges, sixthly,
that at the time of the pretended assessments and levies the
lands were not subject to taxation; and, seventhly, that two
persons, Reynolds and Mead (through whom the defendant
claims), at and before the issuing of the certificates of sale,
unlawfully combined and confederated with the defendant for
the purpose of preventing competition at the sale of lands for
taxes then to be held in the county.
The court below, upon a final hearing, granted the prayer of
the complainant's bill, and entered a decree accordingly; whereupon the defendant appealed to this court.
Argued by Mr. R. P. Loowe and JVr. George G. T~right for
the appellant, and by 1Jr. Thomas T Jurantfor the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
Before examining the objections to the validity of the taxdeeds which the original bill and its amendment suggest, it will
be convenient to notice the provisions of the statutes of the
State respecting tax sales, and respecting the effect of treasurers' deeds for lands sold for delinquent taxes. They are contained in the Revision of 1860, c. 45. After giving directions
for sales of land by the county treasurer for delinquent taxes,

Oct. 1876.]

CALLANAN

v.

HURLEY.

prescribing notice by advertisement, and providing for the cost
of advertising, the treasurer is directed to offer separately, on
the day of sale, each tract or parcel of real property advertised,
on which the taxes and costs shall not have been paid; and it
is declared, that the person who offers to pay the amount of
taxes due on any parcel of land for the smallest portion thereof
shall be considered the purchaser. The treasurer is directed to
continue the sale from day to day as long as there are bidders,
or until the taxes are all paid; and, after all has been offered, if
any portion of the lands advertised remain unsold, the sale is
to be adjourned. The purchaser is entitled to a certificate of
purchase, describing the property and the amount of the tax;
but the land may be redeemed at any time within three years
from the day of the sale. At the expiration of three years, if
the land remains unredeemed, the purchaser is entitled to a
deed from the treasurer, the form and effect of which are defined by the statute. We qu6te a part of sect. 784 of the act,
as having a controlling operation upon the facts of the present
case. It is as follows: "The deed shall be signed by the treasurer in his official capacity,
and acknowledged by him before some officer authorized to take
acknowledgments of deeds, and, when substantially thus executed
and recorded in the proper record of titles to real estate, shall vest
in the purchaser all the right, title, interest, and estate of the former
owner in and to the land conveyed, . . . and shall be lprima facie

evidence in all courts of this State in all controversies and suits in
relation to the rights of the purchaser, his heirs or assigns, to the
land thereby conveyed, of the following facts : "1. That the property was subject to taxation.
"2. That the taxes were not paid before sale.
"3. That the property conveyed had not been rbdeemed at the
date of the deed.
"And shall be conclusive evidence of the following facts: "1. That the property has been listed and assessed.
"2. That the taxes were levied according to law.
"3. That the property was advertised for sale in the manner and
for the length of time required by law.
"4. That the prqperty was sold for taxes as stated in the deed.
"5. That the gratee named therein was the purchaser.
"6. That the sale was conducted in the manner required by law.

CALLANAN V. HURLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

"7. That all the prerequisites of the law were complied with by
all the officers, . . . except in regard to the three points named in
this section, where the deed shall be prinafacie evidence only.
"And in all controversies involving the title under such taxdeed, executed substantially as required by law by the treasurer, the
person claiming title adverse thereto, in order to defeat the same,
must show, either that said property was not subject to taxation, or
that the taxes had been paid before sale, or that the property had
been redeemed from sale according to law.... And no person
shall be permitted to questiou the title under the deed without
first showing . . . that all taxes due uplon the property have been
paid."
The whole act exhibits an intention of the legislature to
enforce the payment of ta.-ces, by securing purchasers at tax
sales in their purchases, and thus making it dangerous for owners of property to neglect payment of taxes due the State. It
removes difficulties which had before existed in the -way of
establishing a tax-title, and at the same time it works no injustice to owners of land subject to taxation. The law determines
when the taxes should be levied, and when they shall be paid,
and it gives ample time within which to make the payment.
It was under this act, and in conformity with its provisions, that
the treasurer's deeds were made, through which the defendant
below made his claim. They are in the form. prescribed by the
statute. If the act is to have any effect at all, it is plain that
the deeds cut off most of the averments upon which the plaintiff
bases his attempt to obtain the cancellation he seeks. It is not
open to him to aver and prove any allegation he puts forward
to establish the invalidity of the deeds, except that the property
was not subject to taxation, and that there was a fraudulent
combination of the defendant with others to prevent bidding.
The first of the averments is denied in the answer, and there
has been. no attempt to sustain it by evidence. Besides, the
statute declares that .the deeds shall be prima facie evidence
that the property was 'subject to taxation. They are made
affirmative evidence. The allegation of a fraudulent combination to supprdss bidding at the sale is entirely unsustained by
any thing in the proofs, and so is every allegation upon which
the bill founds the charge that the deeds are invalid, unless it

Oct. 1876.]

CALLANAN

V. HURLEY.

be the averment that no sale for the non-payment of taxes, real
or pretended, ever took place. The treasurer's deeds, however,
contain a recital that he did, on the fourth day of January, A.D.
1864, by virtue of the authority vested in him by law, at the
sale begun and publicly held on the first Monday of January,
A.D. 1864, expose to public sale at the court-house in the county
aforesaid (Cass), in substantial conformity with all the requisitions of .thestatute in such cases made and provided, the several
pieces of real property above described separately, for the payment of the taxes, interest, and costs then due and remaining
unpaid on each of said pieces of real property, respectively.
The deeds further recite, that, at the time and place aforesaid,
the persons to whom the deeds were made offered the most
favorable bids, and that the several pieces of property were
stricken off to them at the prices bid.
Now, if it be conceded that, under the statute, the deeds containing these recitals are only presumptive evidence that the
sales were actually made as recited, the burden is still on the
complainant to rebut this presumption. And we think that,
instead of having rebutted it, the evidence in support of the
presumption greatly preponderates. We need not refer to it
in detail. Suffice it to say, that there is not a single witness
who is able to deny that a sale was made; and only one is able
to testify that, ten years after 1864, he cannot recollect it, while
others testify affirmatively that it was made. At the treasurer's
sale in January, 1864, there were large bodies of land offered;
and the sale was continued from day to clay. Whether the
lands now in dispute were sold on the fourth day of that month,
or at a later day during the sale, is, perhaps, not distinctly
proved, and it is not necessary that it should be. If they were
not sold until several days later, but yet while the sales were
in progress, unadjourned, and the treasurer certified them as
sold on the opening day, it was at most but an irregularity
which cannot avail the complainant. It has not interfered
with his right to redeem. He suffered eight years to pass after
the sale without asserting any right. During all that period
he paid no taxes, performed no duties which he owed to the
public, suffered the defendant and those under whom the defendant claims to pay the taxes levied from year to year, and now,

CALLANAN V. HURLEY.

[Slip. Ot.

when it may be presumed the land has increased in value, he
seeks the cancellation of the tax-deeds, without even offering
to redeem or to refund the taxes which the purchasers at the
sale have paid. He seeks this in the face of a statute which,
in effect, declares that irregularities shall not suffice to defeat
a tax sale, and when, in view of the evidence, it is exceedingly
doubtful whether in fact there was any irregularity. In this
attempt he cannot succeed.
All the questions presented in this case have been decided by
the Supreme Court of Iowa, and decided adversely to the complainant. Phelps v. 17/Ieade et al., 41 Iowa, 470. That cas& was
an att6mpt to set aside a tax-deed of lands sold by the treasurer
of Cass County at the sale in January, 1864. The averments
of the bill were the same as those made in this case, and the
case was heard upon the evidence taken upon the case now
before us. The rulings of the court were, that, if there was a
bona fide sale in substance or in fact, the tax-deed is conclusive
evidence that it was made at the proper time and conducted in
the proper manner. And where a tax-deed, regular in form,
recited that the land was sold Jan. 4, and the treasurer testified that the sales of land in the county for delinquent taxes
began upon that day, and were continued until the 18th, and
that he entered all the sales as of the date of the commencement, it was held, that a sale of land at any time during the
continuance of the sale was valid, and that the recording of the
sale as of the first day would not impair the title.
We do not find in the unreported case of Butler v. Delano,
to which we have been referred, any thing conflicting with what
was decided in Phellps v. lfeade. The facts of the two cases,
so far as we can gather them from the opinion of the icourt in
the latter, were widely different. The same may be said of the
other unreported case of Thompson v. Ware et al.
Decree reversed, and the cause remitted, with "instructions to. dismiss the bill. .

