Oct. 1876.]

GAINES ET AL.. V. HALE ET AL.

3

locutory injunctions had been allowed. In addition to this, it
was shown that the action of the Circuit Court, inLgranting
such injunctions, practically suspended not only "the enforcement of the revenue laws of Illinois against railroad corporations, but the collection of the taxes assessed upon the capital
stock and franchises of all other corporations in the State, except so far as such corporations voluntarily pay such taxes."
Under such circumstances, it is easy to see that questions of
great public interest were involved, and that the operatibns
of the government of the State would be embarrassed, so long
as they remained undetermined by this court. Sufficient reason
was shown, and the causes were accordingly advanced.
But here no such circumstances exist. The injunction operates only upon the property of a single corporation. The valile
of the property, or the amount of the revenue to be derived
from it, is not shown. No question affecting the power of the
State to tax other property is involved. The only dispute is
*as to the liability of the property of this single owner to taxation. The actual amount in controversy may be, and probably
is, much less than that in very many other cases waiting their
turn to be heard in the regular call of Q)ur docket. No disputed principle of law affecting any other case is, so far as we
can discover from the record, presented for our determination;
We are of opinion, therefore, that a proper showing has not
been made; but, as we have not before announced in so formal
a manner the rule of practice which we have established for
our government under this statute, leave -is granted to the
appellant to renew the motion if the defects which now existMotion denied.
in the showing can be supplied.

GAINEs ET AL. v. HAL-E ET AL.
Where, in a suit between some of the claimants to the hot springs in Arkansas,
the Supreme Court of that State by its decree refused aid to any of them
against the other, except as to the improvements erected by each respectively
on the property, and as to them saved the rights of the United States, this
court, having decided in Hot Springs Cases, 92 U. S. 698, that the United
States is the owner of the property, affirms that decree.

SOUTH

CAROLINA

v.

GEORGIA ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas.
Submitted on, printed -arguments by Mr. W. M. Bose for the
plaintiffs in error, and by 31r. Albert Pike, Mr. B. W. Johnson, Mr. J B. Sanborn, and Mr. -FrederickP. Stanton, for the

defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The decision made by this court in Hot Springs Cases at the
last term, 92 U. S. 698, has disposed of the principal controversy between the parties in this case, by declaring that neither
of them is entitled to the land in question; and that the same
belongs to the United States. As the decree of the Supreme
Court of Arkansas, in the present case, does not contravene

this decision, but refuses aid to any of the parties against each
other, except as to the improvements erected by each respectively, and as to these, saves the rights of the United States,
we do not perceive any error in said decree on any Federal
-Decreeaffirmed.
question.

SOUTH

CAROLiNA v. GEORGIA :ET AL.

1. The compact between South Carolina and Georgia, made in 1787, by which
it was agreed that the boundary between the two States should be the
northern branch or stream of the Savannah River, and that the navigation
of the river along a specified channel should for ever be equally free to the
citizens of both States, and exempt from hinderance, interruption, or molestation, attempted to be -enforced by one State on the citizens of the other,
has no effect upon the subsequent constitutional provision that Congress
shall have power to regkilate commerce with foreign nations and among the
several States.
2. Congress has the same power over the Savannah River that it has over the
other navigable Waters of the United States.
3. The right to regulate commerc6 ncludes the -right to regulate navigation,
and hence to regulate and improve navigable rivers and ports on such
rivers.
4. Congress has power, to close one of several channels in a navigable stream,
if, in its judgment, the navigation of the river will be thereby improved.
It may declare that an actual obstruction is not, in the view of the law, an
illegal one.
5. An appropriation for the improvement of a harbor on a navigable river, "to
be expended under the direction of the Secretary of War," confers upon
that. officer the discretion to determine the mode of improvement, and

