Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES

v.

FERRARY ET AL.

625

the exercise on our part of original instead of appellate jurisdiction. This is not permitted to us.
The instructions given to the jury by the learned judge who
tried the case in the Circuit Court were correct.
Judgment affirmed.
DAvIs, being interested in the question, as one
of the executors of a will, took no part in the decision of this
ease.
MR. JUSTICE

UNITED

STATES

v.

FERRARY ET AL.

1. Where, pursuant to the tenth section of the act of July 20,1868 (15 Stat. 129),
a survey of a distillery and an estimate of its producing capacity is made,
and a copy thereof furnished the distiller, such survey and estimate conclusively determine the producing capacity of the distillery, fix the minimum
tax due from him, and can only be abrogated by a new survey and estimate, ordered by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, a copy of which
is furnished to the distiller.
2. An abortive attempt to make a new estimate to take the place of the former
cannot have the effect to annul it.

ERRon to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Tennessee.
This is an action on a distiller's bond given to the United
States under the seventh section of the act of July 20, 1868,
15 Stat. 127. The tenth section of that act is as follows: "Immediately after the passage of this act, every assessor shall
proceed, at the expense of the United States, with the aid of some
competent and skilful person, to be designated by the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue, to make survey of each distillery registered,
or intended to be registered, for the production of spirits in his
district, to estimate and determine its true producing capacity, and
in like manner shall estimate and. determine the capacity of any
such distillery as may hereafter be so registered in said district,
a written report of which shall be made in tiplicate, signed by
the assessor and the person aiding in making the same, one copy
of which shall be furnished to the distiller, one retained by the
assessor, and the other immediately transmitted to the CommisSioner of Internal Revenue. If the Commissioner of Internal RevevoL. 111.

40

UNITED STATES -v. FERRARY ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

nue shall, at any time, be satisfied that such report of the capacity
of a distillery is in any respect incorrect, or needs revision, he shall
direct the assessor to make, in like manner, another survey of said
distillery; the report of said-survey shall be executed in triplicate,
and deposited as hereinbefore provided."
In the fall of 1870, Ferrary, the principal in the bond, proposed to commence distilling whiskey at Louisville, Tenn., within
the second collection district of that State. Nov. 10, 1870, an
,asistant assegsor of that district, with a person to aid him,
designated by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, made the
survey agreeably to the requirements of the foregoing section,
measured the tubs, and estimated the true producing capacity
of the distillery. Triplicates of the report of this survey, made
under the assessor's direction, were. signed by him and the
person aiding him; one copy was retained by him, another sent
to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and the third furnished to. Ferrary. By this survey and report the producing
capacity of the distillery -was estimated upon the basis of three
gallons of whiskey for each bushel of corn.
The bond now in suit was entered into Nov. 8, 1870. It is
conditioned 1 in all respects faithfully to comply with 'all the
provisions of law in relation to th&business and duties of distillers, and -pay all penalties incurred," &c., and recites Ferrary's
intention to be ,engaged in distilling from Nov. 15. The exceptions state that he manufactured whiskey from Dec. 16,
1870 (the- data of the approval pf the bond), to March 10,
1871. Nov. 18, 1870, the Conimissioner of Internal Revenue
officially informed the assessor that the report of survey, dated
Nov. 10, 1870, was "regarded as erroneous in respect to the dry
inches and the yield of spirit to the. bushel. According to the
ruling of'this office, three dry inches for rye and seven for corn
are the true allowances for tubs sixty inches or under in depth;"
adding, that if the distillati6n was "by direct steam, the yield
should be three and a half gallons to the bushel." The assessor was accordingly ordered to make another survey, as provided ii sect. 10, before referred to; and the letter concluded,
"as no new measurements. ar required," no -expense was to be
allowed. The *second report thus demanded was made Nov.
22, 1870, with the desired amendments, fixing the producing

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED

STATES V.

FERRARY ET AL.

capacity at three and a half gallons per bushel. In making this
new estimate and determination of the producing capacity, the
officers did not again visit the distillery, nor make any new
measurements of any part thereof, but gave all the old measurements of the former report. Triplicate copies of this last report were made; one retained by the assessor, and one sent to
the commissioner. The assessor's clerk swore to having either
mailed or delivered the third copy to Ferrary, and other evidence
was introduced tending to show that it reached him; but he
denied receiving or having any knowledge of it till about the
time he closed his distillery, in March, 1871. His mail-clerk
and other employgs testified in a manner tending to negative
its delivery at the distillery:
Assessments were made for December, 1870, January, February, and March, 1871, based upon the estimates of the
second report of survey; but the evidence showed that if they
bad been based upon the first, there would still have been a
deficiency, for which Ferrary would be liable to be assessed.
After instruotions not excepted to, the presiding judge told the
jury that if the second report of survey was not actually, made
by the assessor, or assistant assessor, and his designated assistant, in like manner with the survey which was the foundation
of the first report, then said second report -of survey was invalid, and any assessments based thereon would also be invalid,
and the plaintiff could not recover thereon in this action.
The plaintiff excepted to this instruction, as well as to an
instruction that "if the jury should be satisfied from the evidence that a second survey had not been made, or that a
second copy of the same was not furnished Ferrary, then their
verdict must be for the defendants." The plaintiff asked the
judge to instruct the jury: 1st, That the first report of survey
was valid and binding until the same was abrogated by authority of law; and that was only when defendant was furnished
with a copy of resurvey or second s.urvey. 2d, That, if the copy
of the second survey ordered was furnished to the defendant, he
would be bound by it; but if he never received it, and continued to operate his distillery under the first one, then he would
be bound by the fist survey, of which he admitted having received a copy. These instructions were refused, upon the ground

UNITED

STATES V. FERRARY ET AL.

[Sup. ot.

that no assessment~was based on the~first survey. An exception was taken to such refusal.
The jury found a verdict for the defendants; and, judgment
having been rendered thereon, the United States sued out this
writ of error.
Argued by Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the
plaintiff in errori and by Mr.-. C. Camp for the defendant in
error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The act of July 20, 1868, which imposes 'taxes on distilled
spirits and tobacco, directs that there -shall be levied and collected on all distilled spirits on vhich ' the tax then prescribed
by law had not been paid a tax of fifty cents on each and
every. proof gallon, to be paid by the distiller, owner, or person
having possession thereof, before removal from distillery warehouse. It also declares that every proprietor or possessor of a
still, distillery,,or distilling apparatus, shall be jointly and severally liable for thq taxes imposed by law on the distilled spirits
produced therefrom. To determine the quantity of spirits produced, three returns in each month are required to be made to
the assessor, stating- the quantity and kind of materials used,
and the number of wine gallons and proof gallons made and
placed in warehouse. These returns it is made the duty of the
assessor to examine, and he is required to make assessments for
deficiencies. The twentieth section of the act also enacts that
the quantity of spirits returned,' together with' the deficiency
assessed, shall in no case be less than .eighty per cent of the
producing capacity of the distillery, as estimated under the
former provisions of the act. Thus a liability is imposed upon
the distiller of a tax of fifty cents upon eighty per cent, at least,
of the producing capacity of the distillery. And'such capacity
is ascertained and informatioh of it is given to the distiller before he commences his manufacture. A survey is made of his
distillery, and an estimate is based on the survey of its true
producing capacity, one copy of which is furnished to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, one is retained by the assessor,
and one is given to the distiller himself. These requirements
of' the law respecting the survey and the estimate were comMR.JUSTICE STRONG

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED

STATES V. FERRARY ET AL.

plied with in the present case. A survey of Ferrary's distillery,
together with an estimate of the producing capacity, was made
on the 10th of November, 1870, and a copy of it was furnished
to him. He had previously -to wit, on the eighth day of the
same month - given the bond upon which this suit was
brought (the other defendants being his sureties), conditioned
for faithful compliance with all the provisions of law in relation to the duties and business of distillers, and on the sixteenth day of the same month he commenced distilling. So
long as that survey and estimate remained unchanged, we think
they conclusively determined the producing capacity of the distillery, and fixed the minimum tax due from the distiller.
The bill of exceptions, however, *shows that on the 18th of
November the Commissioner of Internal Revenue directed the
assessor to make another survey, stating in his letter that no
new measurements were necessary, and, consequently, that no
expense was to be allowed or incurred. The commissioner's
object in giving the direction, as plainly appears from his order,
was to obtain, not a new survey, but a new estimate of producing capacity, founded on the prior survey and measurements.
No new survey was made under it, and no new estimate is
proved to have been given to the distiller. It must, therefore,
be conceded that his liability for taxes was not affected by it,
and that the assessor was not authorized to make any assessment founded on any other survey or estimate than the one of
Nov. 10, 1870. But what then? That survey and estimate
remained in force. An abortive attempt to make a new estimate to take the place of the former cannot have the effect to
annul it. If it could, the distiller would escape from any tax
measured by the producing capacity of his distillery, though
under the act of Congress; without an ascertainment of that,
he is not at liberty to distil at all. The first survey and estimate was valid and binding, as we have said, until it was abrogated by authority of the law, and it could only be abrogated
by a new survey and estimate ordered by the commissioner, a
copy of which was furnished to the distiller. Thus the Circuit Court was a~ked to instruct the jury, and we think -there
was error in refusing to give the instruction asked. There was
error, also, in the refusal to affirm the other proposition of the

UNITED STATES V. FERRARY ET AL.

[8up. Ct.

plaintiffs, which was, "that if the copy of the second report
ordered was furnished the defendant, no matter how, so he
received it, he would be bound by it; but if he never received
it, and continued to operate his distillery under the first one,
then he would be bound by the first survey, of which he admits
having received a copy." There was also error in the instructions actually given to the jury, as well as in the refusal to give
that asked by the plaintiffs.
- The learned judge evidently confounded the survey required
Iby the tenth -section of the act of Congress with the estimate.
and determination of producing capacity calculated ,from the
survey. Hence he instructed the jury, that if the second report
of survey, of which there was some evidence, was not actually
made by the assessor or assistant pssessor, and his designated
assistant, in like manner with the survey made as the foundation of the report of survey first made, the second report was
invalid, and any assessment against the distiller based thereon
would be invalid, and the plaintiffs could not recover thereon
in this action. To this he added, that if the jury were satisfied
from the evidence.that a second survey had been made, or that
a copy of the same had been furnished to Ferrary, the distiller,
.their verdict must -be in favor of the defendants. This was
misleading. There was no pretence that a second survey had
been made. None'was contemplated by the order'of the commissioner. That order expressly, stated that no new measuremeits were required. All that was -done was forming a
corrected estimate, resting on the first measurements. If the
,corrected estimate was inoperative because of failure to furnish
the distiller with a copy of it, his liability for the taxes, determined by the survey that was made, anA the estimate based
thereon, remained undisturbed. The suit was not founded on
an inoperative assessment, as the court seems to have assumed.
It was brought on the distiller's bond; and-the breach averred
was non-compliance with the provisions of the law in telation
to the duties and business of distillers, one of which was the
payment of taxes legally assessed against him. Ferrary had
full information of the sums due from him. The law fixed the
rate at fifty cents for each gallon of spirits produced, and the
survey and estimate which was furnished him informed him
-

Oct. 1876.]

DONALDSON,

ASSIGNEE, V. FARWELL

tT XL.

631

of the producing capacity of his distillery, and made it his duty
to pay the tax on at least eighty per cent of 'that. Thus the
law fixed both the rate and amount. If tha assessor claimed
more, without warrant, his claim did not relieve Ferrary fom
the duty of paying wh.t was due, the amount prescribed by the
*law.. So the jury should have been instructed.
Judgymen.t reversed, and a venire de novo. awarded.

DONALDSON, ASSIGNEE, V. FARWELL ET AL.
1. Where a party, by fraudulently concealing his insolvency and-his intent not-to
pay for goods, induces the owner to sell them to him on credit, the vendor,
if no innocent third party~has acquired an interest in them, is entitled. to
disaffirm the contract and recover the goods.
2. The defeasible title of the vendee to the goods sQ acquired vests in his assignee
in bankruptcy, and is subject to be determined by the prompt disaffirmance
of the cbntraet byothe vendor.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eatern District of Wisconsin.
Emanuel Mann, a merchant doing business at Richfield,. a
small village on the St. Paul Railway, filed, May 24, 1872, his
petition, in the District Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin, to be declared a bankrupt. He
was duly adjudged a bankrupt the sixth day of June then next
ensuing, and the plaintiff was, on the first day of the following
July, appointed his assignee.
In the month of Aplil of that year the defendants sold,'at
Chicago, to Mann, on credit, merchandise amounting in value
to $5,000. The last of the invoices bears date the 17th of that
month.- His son was the agent in making the purchase, and
directed the goods to be shipped to Milwaukee, stating that it
was his intention to have them hauled from there to Richfield.
He knew that his father was then, and for "two or three years
before had been, insolvent, and he testified, on the trial, that
at the time of the purchase he did not expect that his father
would pay for the goods, that he did not expect to pay for
them himself, and that his object in having them sent to Milwaukee was to plaee them in the hands of one Schram, in order
ERROR

