BIRDSALL ET AL. V.

COOLIDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

BIRDSALL ET AL. V. COOLIDGE.
1. In an action at law for the infringement of letters-patent, the rule as to the
m,-asure of damages is, that the verdict of the jury must be for the actutal
damages sustained by the plaintiff, subject to the right of the court to enter
judgment thereon for any sum above the verdict not exceeding three times
that amount, together with costs.
2. Where the unlawful acts consist in making and selling a patented improvement, or in its extensive and protracted use, without palliation or excuse,
evidence of an .established royalty will, in an action at law, undoubtedly
furnish the true measure of damages; but where the use is a limited one,
and for a brief period, the arbitrary and unqualified application of that fule
is erroneous.

EnJRo to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nevada.
Submifted on printed arguments by Mr. C.J. fillyer for the
appellants, and by Mr.A. H. Evans for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE CIF FoRD-delivered the opinion of the court.

Juries, in an action at law for the infringement of a patent,
are required to find the actual damages sistained by the
plaintiff in consequence of the unlawful acts of the defendant.
Power is given to the court, in such a 'case, to enter judgment
for any sum above the amount of the verdict, not :exceeding
three times the amount of the same, together with costs; but
the jury are strictly limited in their finding to. the actul damages which the plaintiff has sustained by the -infringement.
16 Stat. 207; 5 id. 123; Rev. Stat., sect. 4914, p. 960.
Damages are given as a compensation, recompense, or satisfaction to the plaintiff, for an injury actually received by him
from the defendant. Compensatory damages and -actual damages mean the same thing; that is, that the damages shall be
the result of the injury alleged'and proved, and that the amount
9,waxded shall be precisely commensurate with the injury suffered, neither more nor less, whether the injury be to the person
or estate7 of the complaining party. 2 Greenl. Ev. (10th ed.).
sect. 253.
Improvements in machines for amalgamatinig gold and silver
were made by Zenas Wheeler, then in full life, for which he
received letters-patent in .due form of law. -Sufficient also

Oct. 1876.]

BIRDSALL ET AL. V. COOLIDGE.

appears to show that the patentee subsequently - to wit, on the
15th of August, 1869 - departed this life; that,. at the time of
his death, he vas a resident of San Francisco, in the State of California, and that he left a last will and testament, duly executed,
as required by the laws of that State; that he gave, devised, and
bequeathed to the plaintiff all and singular his property, real
and personal, wheresoever situated, including all debts owing
to him, and all moneys belodging to him of which he might
die seised and possessed, in trust for certain uses and purposes
therein specifically set forth and described, leaving his patentrights, machinery, and certain other specified interests, in the
hands of his executor, to be managed, controlled, improved,
changed, or disposed of, as his executor may in his judgment
deem best for the interests of the estate. Due probate of the
will has since been made, and letters testamentary have been
duly granted to the plaintiff, as sole executor of the deceased
patentee.
Purswint to the power vested in the plaintiff as such executor, he instituted the present shit, in which hie alleges that the
deceased testator was the original and first inventor of the
iniprovement described in the patent, and that the defendants,
though-well knowing the premises, and in order to deprive the
plaintiff of the gains and"profits of the same, have, without
license from the testator in his lif.etime, or from the plaintiff
since the decease of the testator, used and caused to be used
twenty amalgamating machines, embracing substantially the
same improvement, in violation and infringepnent of the exclusive right secured by the said letters-patent.
Service was made; and the defendants appeared and pleaded
the general issue, and gave notice of certain special defences,
as follows: 1. That the testator in his lifetime executed a
license to J. Booth & Co., to manufacture the patented machine, and that the defendants purchased the machines they
use of the licensees. 2. That the patented improvement has
been openly and universally used by the public since the patent was granted. 3. That the curved grooves in the face of
the m'uller and in the bottom of the pan had been previously
patented to the respective parties named in the notice of
special matter. 4. That the patentee was not the original and
VOL. 111.

5

1I3RDSALL ET AL. V.

COOLIDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

first inventor of the improvement. 5. That the curved grooves
in the face of the muller and bottom of the pan were in public
use more than two years before the alleged inventor made
application for a patent. 6. That the patented improvements
were described in- the printed publications mentioned in the
notice of special matter.'
Reference to the specification will show that the patented
improvement is called a new and improved gold and silver
,amalgamator and pulverizer, and that the object of the invention, as stated by the patentee, is to obtain a device of simple construction, which will cause a thorough incorporation of
the quicksilver with the pulp containing the metal, so as to
insure a perfect amalgamation of the latter. Mechanically
considered, the invention consists in the arrangement of spiral
ribs on the periphery of the rothry muller, and spiral ribs
reversed on the inner side of th6 pan, to op~erate in connection
-with curved grooves on the face or under side of the muller,
and curved grooves reversed in' -the bottom of the pan, for the
purpose explained.
These explanations are the same as those given in the
specification; and the patentee also states, that the invention
consists in the manner of connecting the.muller to its shaft by
a universal joint, so as to insure its parallelism with the bottoin of the pan, and in the employment or use of curved plates,
which are placed in the pan just above the muller, and arranged in such a manner as to be capable of being Adjusted
higher or lower, as set forth in the specification.
Two of the claims of the patent - to wit, the first and seconAd
are omitted, as the plaintiff admits that those claims have nof
been infringed by the defendants. What he charges is, that
-they have infringed ihe -hird ciaim, which is as follows-: .' In
combiniation with the mnller and pan,-the curved plates supported at their outer ends on slides, and'at iheir inner ends in
a frame, which is supported on the upper end of the shaft in
such a manner that the plates will follow any adjustment of
the muller, and thus bear the same relation to it, .vhether in
its highest or lowest working position."
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is clear that the
charge of infringement has respect chiefly to the curved plates

Oct. 1876.]

BIRDSALL ET AL. V.

COOLIDGE.

supported, as explained, when used in combination with the
muller and pan.
Subsequently the parties went to trial; and the verdict and
judgment were for the plaintiff, in the sum of $2,266.66, with
costs of suit. Exceptions were duly filed by the defendants,
and they sued out the present writ of error.
By the bill of exceptions, it appears that the plaintiff introduced his patent in evidence, together with a model of .the
patented machine for amalgamating gold and silver, and gave
testimony tending to show that the defendants purchased
twenty amalgamating pans, which contained wings or curved
plates of iron twelve inches wide and fourteen inches long, fastened at one end to the inner side of the rim of the pans in a
vertical position, in such a manner that they could be raised
or depressed by sliding up or down in a groove or fastening,
and could be adjusted at different heights, and extending
lengthways towards the centre of the pans, which were a little
more than four feet in diameter.
Wings of the kind, however, were used in only sixteen of the
pans for a few weeks after the defendants c6mmenced to use
the pans for amalgamating purposes; and the defendants testified that the wings were useless, and even detrimental, for
working over old tailings, which was the work on which they
were engaged, for the reason that such material does not
require further grinding or pulverization; that., finding the
wings useless or detrimental, they took them out of the sixteen
pans, and sold them for old iron.
They also gave evidence tending to show, that, when they
used the mill as-a quartz-mill, they used the wings in sixteen
only of the pans, but that when they commenced to work what
are called" tailings," they took out the wings, because they found
them to be detrimental or useless; and the bill of exceptions
also states that the defendants took the wings out of four of
the pans before they used them at all, and only used the wings
in some of the other pans for a short time, and that they did
not use any of them more than six weeks: which is all the evidence introduced to show the extent of the infringement.
Wide differences of opinion existed between the parties as
to the rule of damages in such a case; and, to aid in the solu-

BIRDSALL ET AL. V.

COOLIDGE.

[Slip. Ot.

tion of that question, the plaintiff introduced testimony tending
to show that the decedent in his lifetime allowed manufacturers to make and sell the invention for a royalty of $100 for a
machine containing only the same combination as that used by
the defendants, and proved that he, the plaintiff, had sold royalties to a large amount at the same rate.
Questions of various kinds, other than those relating to the
measure of damages, are also presented in the bill of exceptions;
but the court here, in the view taken of the case, do not find it
necessary to decide any other in this investigation.
Instructions as to the measure of damages were given by the
court to the jury, in substance and effect as follows: That when
a person, without license, appropriates the patented invention
of another, the measure of damages, if a royalty has been
established, is the regular royalty paid by purchasers and
licensees; that, if the jury find for the plaintiff, the damages
will be the royalty which the plaintiff established for that part
of the invention used by the defendants; that, if the royalty
paid for that part of the invention is 8100, then the jury will
allow $100 on each pan used by the defendants, and interest on
that sum, at ten per cent per annum, for the time of the
appropriation, which is the rate of interest allowed in that
State.
Under those instructions the jury returned a verdict for the
plaintiff in the sum of $2,266.66, as appears by the record.
Seasonable exception was taken to the instructions by the
defendants, and that instruction presents the only question
which the court deems it necessary to decide in disposing of
the case.
Controversies and cases arising under the patent laws are
originally cognizable, as well in equity as at law, by the circuit
courts, or by any district court having circuit powers. Prior
to the passage of the act of the 8th of July, 1870, two remedies
were open to the owner of a patent whose rights had been
infringed, and he had his election between the two: lie might
proceed in equity and recover the gains and profits which the
infringer had made by the unlawful use of his invention, the
infringer in such a suit being regarded as the trustee of
the owner of the patent as respects such gains and profits; or

Oct. 1876.]

BIRDSALL ET AL. V. COOLIDGE.

the owner of the patent might sue at law, in which case. he
would be entitled to recover, as damages, compensation for the
pecuniary injury he suffered by the infringement, without
regard to the question whether the- defendant had gained or
lost by his unlawful acts, - the measure of damages in such case
being not what the defendants had gained, but what the plaintiff
had lost. Curtis on Pat. (4th ed.) 461; 5 Stat. 123.
Where the suit is at law, the measure of damages remains
unchanged to the present time, the rule still being, that the
verdict of the jury must be for the actual damages sustained by
the plaintiff, subject to the right of the court to enter judgment
thereon for any sum above the verdict, not exceeding three
times that amount, together with costs. 16 Stat. 207.
Damages of a compensatory character may also be allowed
to the complainant suing in equity, in certain cases, where the
gains and profits made by the respondent are clearly not
sufficient to compensate the complainant for the injury sustained by the unlawful violation of the exclusive right secured
to him by the patent. Gains and profits are still the proper
measure of damages in equity suits, except in cases where the
injury sustained by the infringement is plainly greater tban
the aggregate of what was made by the respondent; in which
event the provision is, that the complainant "shall be entitled
to recover, in addition to the profits to be accounted for by the
respondent, the damages he has sustained thereby."
Cases occurred under the prior patent act where manifest
injustice was done to the complainant in equity suits, by withholding from him a just compensation for the injury he sustained by the unlawful invasion of his exclusive rights, even when
the final decree gave him all that the law allowed. Examples
of the kind may be mentioned where the business of the
infringer was so improvidently conducted that it did not yield
any substantial profits, and cases where the products of the
patented improvements were sold greatly below their just and
market value, in order to compel the owner of the patent, his
assignees and licensees, to abandon the manufacture of the
patented product.
Courts could not, under that act, augment the allowance
made by the final decree, as in the case of the verdict of a jury;

BIRDSALL ET AL. V. COOLIDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

but the present patent act provides that the court shall have
the same powers to increase the decreei in its discretion, that
'are given by the act to increase the damages found by verdicts
in actions at law. Such difficulties could never arise in an
action at law, nor can it now, as both the prior and the present
patent act authorize the court to enter judgment on the verdict
of the jury for any sum above the verdict, not exceeding three
times that amount. No discretion is vested in the jury; but
they are required to find the actual damages, under proper
instructions from the court.
Still, it is obvious that there cannot be any one rule of
damages prescribed which will apply in all cases, even where
it is conceded that the fiding must be limited to actual damages."
Frequent cases arise where proof of an established royalty
furnishes a pretty safe guide both for the instructions of the
court and the finding of the jury. Reported cases of undoubted
authority may be referred to which support that proposition;
and yet it is believed to be good law, that the rule cannot be
applied without qualification, where the patented improvement
has been used only to a limited extent and for a short time, but
that in such a case the jury should find less than the amount of
the license fee; and it is admitted in several cases that the
circumstances may be such that the finding should be larger

than the royalty. Seymour v. le (ormick, 16 How. 490;
Livingston v. Woodwortk, 15 id. 560; .Dean v. Aason, 20 id.
203; Curtis on Pat. (4th ed.) 459.
Evidence of an established royalty gill undoubtedly furnish
the true measure of damages in an actioh at law, where the
unlawful acts consist in making and selling the patented
improvement, or in the extensive and protracted use of the
same, without palliation or excuse; but where the use, is a
limited one and for a brief period, as in the case before the
court, it is error to apply that rule arbitrarily and without any
qualification. Packet Co. v. Sickles, 19 Wall. 617.; Burdell
et al. v. Denig et al., 92 U. S. 716; Suffolk Co. v. Hayden,
3 Wall. 320.
,Fourof the pans in this case were used throughout without
wings, and wings in most of the others were used only for a
shbrt tithe, and in none of the pans for more than six weeks.

Oct. 1876.]

HURST V. WESTERN & ATLANTIC

R.R. Co.

71

Under these circumstances, it was error to charge the jury, that,
if they found any damages, they must find the amount of the
royalty for each pan so used, as that was instructing the jury in
effect that they must find $100 for each pan, which is plainly
more than the actual damages proved'by the evidence. Actual
damage is the statute rule; and, whenever the royalty plainly
exceeds the rule prescribed by the Patent Act, the finding
should be reduced to the statute rule.
J"udgment reversed, and cause remandedwitk directions to issue
a venire de novo.

HURST V. WESTERN AND ATLA:NTIC RAILROAD COMPANY.
Under the act of March 2, 1867 (14 Stat. 558), a suit pending in a State court,
between a citizen of the State in which the suit was brought and a citizen
of another State, could not, on the application of the former, be removed to
a circuit court of the United States.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Tennessee.
Hurst, the plaintiff in error, a citizen of Tennessee, sued the
Wesern "and Atlantic Railroad Company, a corporation of
Georgia, in the law court of Chattanooga, Tenn., at its October Term, 1866. The cause was tried at the February Term,
1868, of that court, and resulted in a judgment in favor of
Hurst. The Supreme Court of the State, at its October Term,
1869, reversed this judgment, and sent the cause back for a new
trial. At the June Term, 1870, of the law court, the July
Term, 1871, and the March. Term, 1872, trials were had, in
which the juries disagreed. At the July Term, 1872, after
trial, another judgment was rendered in favor of Hurst. This
judgment, too, the Supreme Court reversed, at its September
Term, 1872, and the cause was again remanded for trial.
Nov. 12, 1873, Hurst applied to the law court for a removal
of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States for
that district, under the act of March 2, 1867. 14 Stat. 558.
Upon-this application the cause was removed; but the Circuit
Court, when it came there, refused to take jurisdiction, and
remanded it to the State court.
This action of the Circuit Court is assigned here for error.

