TAMELING v.

U. S.

FREEHOLD, ETC. CO.

[Slip. Ct.

TANsLING v. UNITED STA.TES -FREEHOLD AND EmIGRA.TION

CoMPANY.
The action of Congress confirming a private land claim in New Mexico, as recommended for confirmation by the surveyor-generalof that Territory, is not subject to judicial review.

to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Colorado.
This is an action by the defendant in error against Tam'eling,
ERROR

to recover possession of one hundred and sixty acres of land in
the County of Costilla and Territory of Colorado. The tract is
situate within the exterior boundaries of a larger one, known as
the "Costilla estate," which was severed from the "Sangre de
Cristo grant." The latter is known and designated as "claim
No. 14 of Charles Beaubien," in the letter of the Secretary of
the Interior to the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
bearing date Feb. 11, 1857. With that claim were transmitted
copies of the grant, order of prefect's court, notice of claim,
deed of administrator, testimony, and report.
The case was submitted to the District Court on the following agreed statement of facts :The piece or parcel of land described in the plaintiff's declaration, and for the possession of which the plaintiff bcings this
suit, is now, and at the time of the commencement of this suit
was, situate, lying, and being in the County of Costilla, in the
Territory of Colorado, and, at the time of the commencement of
this suit, and for a long time prior thereto, was in the actual
possession of the said defendant, who, before the commencement of said suit, has made valuable improvements thereon.
The said piece or parcel of land is within the exterior boundaries of and forms a part of a larger tract or parcel of landclaimed by the plaintiff in fee-simple, and known as the "Costilla estate," which said estate is bounded as follows, viz.: "Beginning at a point one league below the confluence of the Rio
Costilla and the Rio del Norte; thence up the Rio del Norte,
on the eastern bank thereof, to its confluence with the Rio
Culebra; thence easterly, following the southern bank of the
Ric Culebra, to a point at or near the junction of the Rio Seco
with the Rio Culebra; thence easterly to the Culebra Peaks;
thence southerly to the boundary of the lands of Miranda and

Oct. 1876.]

TABII LING V. U.

S.

FREEHOLD, ETC. CO.

645

Beaubien, and to a point at or near the road to Maxwell's;
thence westerly, following the mountain-ranges and along the
boundary of the lands of Miranda and Beaubien, to a point
about one league south of the Rio Costilla; and thence westerly
to the place of beginning: containing by estimation five hundred thousand acres, or thereabouts."
The said Costilla estate prior to the commencement of this
suit formed a part and parcel of a yet larger tract or parcel of
land, known as the " Sangre de Cristo grant;" from said grant
the said estate was segregated by the conveyance thereof by
Martin Coates Fisher to the plaintiff, which said conveyance is
hereinafter referred to; and which said grant, as an entirety
(including said Costilla estate), is described as follows: "Beginning at a point one Spanish league below the confluence of
the Rio de Costilla and the-Rio del Norte; thence up the Rio
del Norte on the eastern bank thereof, to a point one league
above the mouth of the Rio Trinchara; thence north-east to a
point; thence along said mountain, south-east to a point established on the top of said mountain; thence south to the boundary of the lands of Miranda and Beaubien; thence along said
boundary to a point about one league south of the Rio de Costilla; and thence west to the place of beginning."
The said Costilla estate is included in the Sangre de Cristo
grant, whether'reference be had to the description thereof given
in the judicial certificate of possession, or in the petition of
Charles Beaubien herein set forth.
The said Sangre de Cristo grant is known_ and designated as
"Claim No. 14 of Charles Beaubien" in the letter of the Secretary of the Interior of the United States, transmitting. a
transcript of the claim of the said Beaubien to said grant, to
the Hon. N. P. Banks, Speaker of the House of Representatives, said letter bearing date Feb. 11, 1857, and which said
letter, and all of the documents pertaining to said Sangre de
Cristo grant therein referred to, are in the words and figures
following, viz. : "DEPARTMENIT OF THE INTERIOR, Feb. 11, 1857.
"SiR, -I have the honor to transmit herewith for the action of
Congress, contemplated by the eighth section of the act of 22d
of July, 1854, the transcript of the land-claims in Nev Mexido,

TAMELING

v. IU. S.

FREEHOLD, ETC. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

designed for the House of Representatives, as per letter fr6m the
Commissioner of the General Land-Office of the 10th instant, a
copy of which is enclosed.
"Similar documents, submitted by the commissioner in the same
letter for the Senate of the United States, have been appropriately
disposed of.
"With great respect, your obedient servant,
"R.

]NICCLELLA-WD, Secretary.

"Hon. N. P. B.A_.-s,
"Speaker of the House of Representatives."
"GENERA

L~rD-OFFricE, Feb. 10, 1857.

"Sm,- I have the honor to submit to the department the following documents, transmitted to this office by the surveyor-general of New Mexico, with his letter dated 31st December, 1856,
to wit :

"Claim No. 14, of Charles Beaubien. Transcript for the House
of Representatives, embracing copies of grant (original), translation of grant, order of prefect's court, notice of claim, deed of
administrator, testimony, and report.
" Also, similar documents for the United States Senate, with the
exception of another transcript of the original grant, which has not
been received from the surveyor-general.
"Claim No. 29, Casa Colorado. Transcript for the House of
Representatives, embracing copies of grant (original), translation
of grant, notice, testimony, and report.
"Also, similar documents for the United States Senate, with the
exception of another copy of original grant which has not been re'ceived fiom the surveyor-general.
"Claim. No. 32, of Hugh Stevenson et als. Transcript for the
House of Representatives, embracing copies of grant (original),
translation of grant, testimony, map of the Bracito tract of land,
deed of Francisco Gracia y San Juan to Hugh Stevenson et al.,
deed of Hugh Stevenson et al. to Francisco Gracia y San Juan,
notice, brief, and report.
"Also, similar documents for the United States Senate, with the
exception of other original copies of grant and map of the Bracito
tract of land, which have not been received from the surveyorgeneral.
"The foregoing three claims have been examined and approved
by the surveyor-general of New M1exico, who, in transmitting the
above-mentioned copies of the documents, requested that the same

Oct. 1876.]

TAMELIN

v. U.

S. FREEHOLD,

ETC.

Co.

may be submitted to Congress at their present session for their action upon the claims, and they are therefore accordingly herewith
submitted for that purpose.
"With great respect, your obedient servant,
"THOMAs

"Hon. R. MCCLELLAND,

A.

HENDRICKS,

Commissioner.

.

"Secretary of the Interior."

"c Claim ATo. 14, of Charles .Beaubien.
"Seal fourth. [SEAL.] Two rials.

"For the years one thousand eight hundred and forty-two and
forty-three.
"Most Excellent Oovernor Don MANUEL ARnmIo "cLouis Lee, a naturalized citizen and resident of the first demarcation of Taos, and Narciso Beaubien, a citizen, and also a resident
of the above-named place, appear before .your Excellency in the
manner and form best provided by law and most convenient to us,
and state that, desiring to encourage the agriculture of the country,
and place it in a flourishing condition, and being restricted with
lands wherewith to accomplish said purpose, we have seen and examined with great care that embraced within the Costilla, Culebra,
and Trincheras -Rivers, including the Rito of the Indians 'and the
Sangre de Cristo to its junction with the Del Norte River, and
finding in it the qualities of fruitfulness, fertile lands for cultivation,
and, abundance of pasture and water, and all that is required for
its settlement, and the raising of hornedi and woollen cattle, and
being satisfied with it, and knowing that it is public land, we have
not hesitated to apply to your Excellency, praying you, as an act of
justice, to grant to us the possession of a tract of land to each one
within the afore-mentioned boundaries, promising to commence the
settlement of the same within the time prescribed by law, until the
colony shall be established and permanently fixed, provided your
Excellency be pleased to grant it to us. Such is the offer we make,
and swear it is not done in malice.
"Louis LEE.
"1NARcIso BEAUBIEx.

"SANTE

FA, Dec. 27, 1843."

"SANTA FA, Dec. 30,-1843.
"Referred to the prefect, in order that, if the land petitioned for
be not otherwise disposed of, he cause the possession referred to by
the petitioners to be given.
"AumiJo.
" DONACIARO

VIGIL [nuBRic],

Acting Secretary."

[RuBRIC.]

648

TAMELING v.

U. S.

FREEHOLD, ETC.

CO.

' [Sup.

Ct.

"Rio ARRIBA, Jan. 7, 1844.
"The justice of the peace to whose jurisdiction belongs the land
petitioned for, which, I believe, should be the third demarcation,
having before him the superior decree of the most excellent governor of the 30th of December last, will proceed to the land and
place the petitioners in possession, provided it is not to the injury
of third parties.

"To Don

" AncHoIETA.

MIGUEL SANCHEZ, Justice

[RUBRIC.] "

of the Peace of the Third

Demarcation :-

"The undersigned, Mexican citizens and residents of this precinct, in the most approved manner provided by law, appear before
you, and state that the public land contained in the foregoing statement having been granted to us by the government of the department, as will be seen by the superior decree entered on the margin,
and lacking the certificate of possession which will insure to us our
legal title thereto, and prevent aiy one from disturbing us, we pray
y6u to consider us as having presented ourselves, after which we
will enlarge this for such ends as our rights may require. Therefore, we pray you to grant our request, justice being what we ask
for. We swear that it is not done in malice, and in whatever may
be necessary, &c.
" Lotus :LEE.
" NTARcso

BEAUBIEN.

"TAos, Jan. 8, 1844."
,,JT. 8, 1844.
"Considered as presented, and received as far as required by
law, I, the present justice, proceeding with my attending and instrumental witnesses to the place designated in the foregoing documents, and let the possession selected by the petitioners to be given,
so that they, their heirs and successors, may hold the same by a just
title. The citizen Miguel Sanchez, justice of the peace of the third
jurisdiction of Taos, so provided, ordered, and signed, with those in
his attendance. To which I certify.
"JOSA MIGUEL SANCHEZ.

"Attending :"JUANr RxrOR VALDEZ"PEDRO VAL iEZ.

[RUBRIc.]

[nUnuro.]
[Rnnirc.] "

"In the pueblo of Taos, on the twelfth day of January, 1844,
I, the citizen Miguel Sanchez, justice of the peace of this demarcation, by virtue of the direction contained in the foregoing decree,
proceeded to the land referred to by Don Luis Lee and Don Nar-

Oct. 1876.]

TAMELING

v. U. S.

FREEHOLD, ETC.

CO.

ciso Beaubien in the foregoing instrument, and being then there
with my' attending and instrumental witnesses for that purpose
appointed, the landmarks of the boundaries were then established
according to the manner in which the land is described in the preceding petition, and corresponding with the plat which I subscribed;
and, commencing or the east side of the Del Norte River, a mound
was erected at one league distance from its junction with the
Costilla River, thence following up the Rio del Norte, on the same
eastern bank, to one league above the junction of the Trenchera
River, where another mound wvas erected; and continuing from
west to north, east, following up the cun'ent of Trinchera River to
the summit of the mountain, where another mound was established;
and following the summit of the mountain to the boundary of the
lands of Miranda and Beaubien, tlhe fourth mound was established;
and continuing on the summit of the Sierra Madre, and following
the boundary of the aforementioned lands to opposite the first
mound erected, on the Del Norte River, where the fifth and last
mound was erected ; and from thence in a direct line to the first
one erected on the north; and, being registered, I took them by
the hand, walked with them, and caused them to throw earth, pull
weeds, and other evidence of possession, whereupon the proceedings
were concluded, the boundaries determined without any conflicting
claim of any third party, as I, the aforesaid justice, in the name of the
sovereignty of the nation (may God preserve it), gave to the aforementioned Don Louis Lee and Don N.'Beaubien the personal and
perfect possession which they solicit, serving as a title for them, their
children and successors, in which I will protect and defend them;
and I order them not to be deprived thereof without being first heard,
and sentence given against them according to law and evidence.
"In testimony whereof, I sign with my attending and instrumental witnesses, who were Messrs. Ceram St. Vrain, Manuel Martin, and Juan Ortega, at present residents of this precinct. To
which I certify.
"Josh MIGUEL SA-CEEZ.

"Instrumental:
"CERAM

ST. VRAIN.

'MANUEL
"JUAN

ANTONIO

MARTIN.

ORTEGA.

"Fees: $30.
"NOTE. - The words interlined are valid.
"Attending : "JUAN

RAMOR VALDEZ.

" PEDRO VALD JZ."

[nunBic.]

650

TAMELING V. U. S. FREEHOLD, ETC. Co.

' [Sup. Ct.

"S uRVEYOR-GEN-ERA-L'S OFFICE,
"TRANSLATOR'S DEPARTIENT, June 18,

1856.
"I, David V. Whiting, translator, certify the foregoing to be a
correct translation of the original on file in this office.-"DAVID V. WHITING, Tran-slator.
"SURVEYOR-GENERAL'S

"SANTA

OFFICE,

F , Dec. 30, 1856.

"The foregoing is a true copy of the original on file in this office.
"WILLA9 PBLHAM,
Surveyor-General of New Mexico."

.May Term, 1847.
"DoN FERNANDO DE TAOS, May 3, 1847.
"This being the regular May Term of the prefect's court, it met
and was opened according to law, and, among other proceedings,
th- following were held. And the said Joseph Pley, administrator
as'aforesaid, presented the following petition to the court, in letters
and figures as follows, to wit: "To the Honorable Judge of the Prefect Court for the County of
Taos, Territory of New Mexico "Your petitioner, Joseph Pley, administrator of the estate of
Stephen L. Lee, deceased, respectfully represents, that the personal estate of the- said Stephen L. Lee, deceased, is insufficient
to pay the debts of the estate, as will appear by the account of
your petitioner's administration. The list of debts due t6 and by
the deceased remaining unpaid)-and there being no other assets in
the hands'of your petitioner whereby to enable him to meet the
demands against said estate, your petitioner therefore prays that
so much of the real estate of the said deceased may be sold by
order of the court as will be sufficient to pay the debts of the
deceased, and that your Honor will make an order ordering your
petitioner to .proceed to sell all or'a part of said real estate at
either private or public sale, and upon such terms. as to your petitioner, under the instructions of the court, may seem most beneficial to the interest of all concerned.
"JOSEBPH

PLEY,

"Administrator of S. L. Lee, Deceased."
"DON

"To

FERNANDO DE TAOS, May 3, 1847.

Administrator of the Estate of STEPnHxN L.
LEE, Deceased.
"Your petition to the prefect court within and for the county
of Taos, in the Territory of New Mexico, praying to said court to
JOSEPH PLEY,

Oct. 1876.]

TAMELING

v. U. S.

FREEHOLD, ETC. Co.

651

sell the real estate of Stephen L. Lee, deceased, or so much thereof
as will satisfy such claims as may be presented, the court as aforesaid grants the request contained in said petition, and that you are
hereby permitted to sell said real estate at private sale, at not less
than the value as appraised.
"Witness, Robert Crary, clerl of the prefect court for said county,
at Don Fernando de Taos, this third day of May, A.D. 1847.
I
"ROBERT CRARY, Clerk
"Approved:

VNCINTE MARTINEZ, Prefecto."

"I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of the record
of the prefect court, on file in my office, of the May Term of said
court, held in the town of Don Fernando Ide Taos on the first
Monday of -May, A.D. 1847, at which time Vincente Martinez wds
prefect, and Robert Crary clerk.
"Witness, Pedro Val dez, clerk of the prefect's court of the county
of Taos and Territory -f New Mexico, and my private seal, there
being no seal for said county, Aug. 1, 1855.
[EAL.]
"TERRITORY

PEDRO VALDEZ, Clerk."
OF NEW MExIco,

" County of Taos : "I, Jose Benito Martinez, judge of the probate or prefect's
court within and for the county of Taos, do hereby certify that
Pedro Valdez, who signed the foregoing certificate; and whose
signature thereto is genuine, was at the time of so doing clerk of
said court.
"Given under my hand this sixth day. of August, A.D. 1855.
"Josi BENITO MARTINEZ, J.ge
of Probate."
"UNITED

STATES OF AiirtiIc ,

Territory of New _Meico, ss "I, W. W. H. Davis, secretary of, the Territory of New Mexico, do hereby certify that Jos6 Benito Martinez, whose certificate is herein annexed, and wJho has thereto subscribed his name,
was at the time of so doing a judge of probate in and for the
county of Taos and Territory aforesaid, duly elected and qualified
to' act as such, and that the signature purporting to be his is
genuine.
"In testimony, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my seal
of office the eleventh day of August, A.D. 1855.
"[sEAL.]
W. W. H. DAVIS,
"

"Secretary Territoryof New Mexico."

652

TAMELING V. U. S. FREEHOLD, ETC. CO.
"SUR

[Sup. Ct.

Ryob-GENERAL's OFFICE,

"STANT F, Dec. 30, 1856.
"The foregoing is a true copy of the original on file in this

office.
"WILLIAM PELHAM,
"Surveyor- General of Aew Mexico."

"This indenture, made this fourth day of May, in the year of

our Lord 1848, between Joseph Pley, administrator of Stephen L.
Lee, deceased, of tie county of Taos and Territory of New MAexico,
9 f the first part, and Charles Beaubien, of 'the same county and
Territory, of the second part, witnesseth : That whereas an oraer
was entered at the January Term of the prefect's court of the county

of Taos, commanding the said Joseph Pley to sell as administrator
of said estate all the real estate of said deceased for the payment of
debts allowed -against said estate: Now, therefore, by virtue of
said order, the said party of the first part, for and in consideration
of the sum of $100, to him in hand paid by the said party of the
second part, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, doth
hereby give, grant, bargain, sell, convey, transfer, and make over
unto the said party'of the second part, his heirs and assigns, for ever,
all the right, title, and interest of the said Stephen L. Lee in and
to the following-described tract, lot, or parcel of land: All that
certain tract of land known as the Sangre de Cristo claim, and which
was granted by the Mlexican government to Stephen L. Lee and
Narciso Beaubien, and described as follows: Beginning from a
point one league below the confluence of the Rio de Costilla and
the Rio del Norte; thence up the Rio del Norte, on the eastern bank,
to a point one league above the mouth of the Trinchera; thence
iiorth-north-east to a point on the mountain; thence along the
mountain south-east, east to an established point on the top of the
mountain; thence south, along the line of the Poniete claim of
Miranda and Beaibien; thence to a-point about a league south of
the Rio Costilla; thence west to the place of beginning; and a
number of acres not known :-to-hav.e and to hold the above-granted
premises unto the said Charles Beaubien, his heirs and assigns, for
ever. In testimony whereof, the party of the first part has hereunto set his hand and affixed his seal the day and year above
written.
"[..

s.]

JOSEPIH PLEY,
"Administrat'or of the Estate of Stephen L. Lee.

"In presence of VITAL TRUJILLO."

Oct. 1876.]

TAMELING v. U. S. FREEHOLD, ETC. CO.

"TERRITORY

OF NEW MEXICO,

653

" County of Taos, ss:"Be it remembered that on this eleventh day of May, in the year
1848, Joseph Pley, administrator of the estate of Stephen L. Lee, who
is personally known to the undersigned, clerk of-the Circuit Court for
said county, to be the same person whose name is subscribed to the
foregoing instrument in writing, and acknowledged the same to be
his act and deed, as administrator as aforesaid, for the purposes
therein 'mentioned.
"Taken and certified the day and year above written.
"ROBERT

CRARY, [SEAL]

" Clerk of the Circuit Court."
"SURVEYOR-GENERAL'S

OFFICE,

FP, -Dec. 30, 1856.
"The foregoing is a true copy of the original on file in my office.
" SANTA

"WILLIAM PELHAM,
"Surveyor- General of New Mexico."

4, To General WILLIAM PELHAM, Surveyor-General of.the Territory
of New Mexico: "Charles Beaubien, a citizen of the United States and a resident
of the Territory of New Mexico, represents that he is the legal
owner, in fee, of a certain tract of land lying and being situated in
the county of Taos, in, said Territory of New Mexico, known as
the Sangre de Cristo grant, descibed as follows: Beginning froul
a point one Spanish league below the confluence of the Rio de Costilla and the Rio del Norte; thence up the Del Norte, on the eastern bank, to a point one league above the mouth of the Rio
Trinchera; thence north-east to a point on the mountain; thence
along said mountain, south-east to a point established on the top of
the said mountain; thence south to the boundary of the lands of
iranda and Beaubien; thence along said boundary to a point
about one league south of the Rio Costilla; and thence west to the
place of beginning: all of which points and boundaries are wellknown landmarks, and monuments were placed at the same at the
time of giving possession of the same to the original grantees. The
said Charles Beaubien, the present claimant and actual owner,
claimrs a perfect title to said lands by virtue of a grant made on the
thirtieth day of December, A.D. 1843, by Manuel Armijo, governor
of the department of New Mexico, and perfected according to law
by possession being given by the alcalde, Jos6 Miguel Sanchez,

TAmELING v. U. S.

FREEHOLD,-ETC. CO.

[Sup.

Ct.

on the twelfth day of January, A.D. 1844. Said grant was made
according- to the usage and laws and customs of the Republic of
Mexico, to Luis Lee and Narciso Beaubien, as will appear by reference to said laws and usages, at that time in force, and the.Spanish
laws, so far as recognized by"the government of the Republic of
Mlexico. The said Charles Beaubien further states, that he cannot
show the quantity of land claimed by him, only so far as set forth
by the foregoing description of points and bounds, nor can he furnish a -plat of the survey of the same, as no survey has evar been
made. The claimant further states that the said Luis Lee and Naroiso Beaubien, after having been put in lawful possession of said1
grant, conformed to all the laws and regulations in regard to the
same as required at that time, and held possession thereof until Jan.
19,1847, when both were slain in the massacre of Taos of that date;
that N arciso Beaubien was the son of the' claimant, and, according
to law, all the interest of the said Narciso Beaubien, deceased, descends to the present claimant, and that lie claims all the right,
title,'and interest of the said Luis Lee, deceased, by virtue of a
deed made by the administrator of Luis Lee the fourth day of May,
1848. Said original grant is herewith filed, marked 'A;' deed
from Joseph Pley, administrator of Luis Lee, to the claimant
marked 'B,' also certified copy of the record of the court of probate for said county of Taos, authorizing the administrator to sell
said right, title, and ihiterest, marked I C.' Claimant further states
that he is prepared to prove that the Luis Lee whose name appears
in the original grant, and the Stephen L. Lee whose name appears
in the administrator's deed to the claimant, are one and the same
person.
"Claimant is prepared further to prove, if deemed necessary,
that since the said grant came into his possession he has had made
extensive settlements on the same, and that it is becoming under
his ownership rapidly populated. The claimant therefore respectfully asks a speedy acknowledgment-of his claim.
"SMITH

&

HOUGHTON,

"Attorneys for Citjmant."

"SUrRVEYOR-GENERAL'S OFFICE,
"SANTA Fi, Dec. 30,

1856.
"The foregoing is a true copy of the original on file in this
office.
"WILLIAM PELHAM,
"Surveyor-General of New Ofexico."

Oct. 1876.]

TAMELING v. U. S. FREEHOLD, ETC. CO.

655

" CHARLES BEAUBIEN, SANGRE DE CRISTO.

"DONACIARO VIGIL, being duly sworn, was interrogated in the
following manner:Question. What office did you hold in year 1843 under the
Mexican government ?
"Answer. Acting secretary of the department of New Mexico.
"Q. What office did Manuel Armijo hold at that time ?
"A. He was political governor and military commander of the
department.
Q. Is his signature on the grant made to Narciso Beaubien and
Luis Lee to the Sangre de Christo and your own signature to said
document genuine?
"A. They are.
Q. What office did Juan Andres Archuleta hold at that time?
"Q
"A. He was the prefect of the northern district, and the land
granted was within his district.
"Q. Do you know the signature of Archuleta, and is the one
attached to said grant genuine?
"A. I do; and it is genuine.
" Q. Have you seen the governor and prefect sign their name ?
"A. I have.
"Q
Q. Are Stephen L. Lee and Luis Lee one and the same person, and was he as well known by one name as by the other?
" A. Ile was the same person, and was as well known by one
name as by the other.
" Q. Did you know Narciso Beaubien, the son of the present
claimant?
"A. I did ; and he and Lee were both killed at the massacre of
Taos in the year 1847.
"QQ. Did Narciso Beaubien have any children?
"A. He did not ; he was sixteen years old when he was killed.
" Q. Have you any interest in this claim ?
"A. I have not.
"Q. Do you know who was the prefect of Taos County in the
year 1847, after the massacre ?
"A. I was acting governor and secretary at that time, and Vincinte Martinez was appointed by me to fill that office.
" Q. Is your signature to the registry of said document genuine,
and in what capacity did you sign ?
"A. It is; and signed as secretary and recorder of land-titles
under the Harney code.
"DONACIAN0

VIGIL."

TAMELING

v. U. S.

FREEHOLD, ETC. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

"Sworn and subscribed to before me this third day of December, 1856.
"WiLLAm PELHAM."
"JOAB

HOUGHTON, sworn: -

"Question. State if you knew Narciso Beaubien.
"Answer. I did.
" Q. State if he was the son of Charles Beaubien, the present
claimant ?
"A.

He was so considered by his father and mother.

"Q. Did you know Stephen L. Lee, and how long did you know
him?
"-A.

I knew him from 1843 up to the time of his death.

"Q. State what the ' L' in his name stood for ?
"A. It stood for Louis, and sometimes he signed Stephen Louis
Lee, but -generally Stephen L. Lee; and he was often known among
the Mexicans by Louis Lee, or Stephen L. Lee.
"Q. Are Lee and- arciso ]eaubien alive now-?
"A. The' are both dead."Q. How did they come to their-death ?
"A. They were killed in the massacre of Taos, on the 19th of
Janunary, 1847.
"Q. Do you knowif Narciso B~aubign had any children at the
time of his death?
"A. He bad not. He-was a minor and could not have been
more than sixteen years of age at the time of his death.
"Q. Do yod- know the signature of Pedro Valdez, attached to
the transcript of the record of the court, and is it genuine ?
"A. I do. He was clerk of the probate court, and I saw him
sign the transcript referred to.
"Q. Do you know the signature of Jos6 Benito Martinez, attached to the document mentioned?
"A. I do; and saw him sign the certificate that Pedro Valdez
was clerk of his court.
" Q. Do you know the signature of Joseph Pley, administrator of
Stephen L. Lee, attached to the conveyance to Charles Beaubien?
"A. I do; and have been long acquainted with his signature,
and have often een him sign.
" Q. Do you know the residence of Vidal Trujillo, subscribing
witness to said conveyance ?
"A. I understand he resides at Ruyado, over one hundred miles
from this place (Santa F6).

Oct. 1876.]

v.U. S.

TAMELING

657

FREEHOLD, ETC. CO.

" Q. Do you know the signature of Robert Crary, appended to
the same document?
"A. I do; it is his signature, and I know he was clerk of the
Circuit Court at that date.
" Q. Were you at that time chief justice of this Territoi.."A. I was.
"J. HOUGHTON."

"Sworn to and subscribed before me this third day of December, 1856.
"WILLIAM

PELHAM."

sworn: "Question. Do you know Jos6 Miguel Sanchez, the justice of
the peace whose signature is affixed to the certificate of possession
in this case ?
"Answer. I have known him since I have had the use of reason.
" Q. Do you know his signature, and have you seen him sign?
"A. I know his signature, and have seen him sign frequently.
"Q. Is his signature appended to the foregoing document genuine ?
"MANUEL MARTINEZ,

"A. It is.

Q. Is Jos6 Miguel Sanchez dead, and when did he die?,
"A. He died in the month of June of the present year.
"MANUEL

MARTINEZ."

"Sworn to and subscribed before me this fourth day of December, 1856.
"W. H. PELHAM, Surveyor- General."
OFFICE,
"SURVEYOR-GENERAL'S
" SANTA E, Dec. 30,

1856.
"The foregoing is a true copy of the original on file in this office.
" WILLIAM PELHAM, Surveyor- General."
BEAUBIEN, Assignee of STEPHENI
"CHARLES
L. LEE and
NA&RclSO BEAUBIEN, Deceased,t San gre de Cristo

grant.

V.
THE UNITED STATES.

"The above case was set for trial on the third day of December,
1856.
"On the twenty-seventh day of December, 1843, Luis Lee and
Narciso Beaubien petitioned Manuel Armijo, civil and military governor of New Mexico, for a grant of land in what is now the county
VOL. I1.

42

TADELING

v. U. S.

FREEHOLD, ETC.

Co.

[Sup. Ct.

of Taos, 'embracing the Costilla, Culebra, and Trincbera Rivers,
including the Rito of the Indians, and Sangre de Cristo, to its
junction with the Del Norte River.' This petition was referred, on
the thirtieth day of Decembir, 1843, by Manuel Armijo, the civil
and military governor aforementioned, to the prefect, with instructions to give'the possession asked for by the petitioners in case there
was no impediment.
" On the 7th of January, 1844, Juan Andres Archuletta, the prefect, directed the justice of the peace of the demarcation wherein
the land was situated to place.the parties in possession, in accordance with the decree of the civil and military governor, by virtue
of which the justice of the peace, Jos6 Miguel Sanchez, placed the
parties in possession of the land, with the boundaries contained in
the petition, vesting in them, their children and successors, a title
in fee to said lands.
"1NarcisoBeaubien, one of the grantees, was killed at the massacre of Taos, in the year 1847; and, dying without issue, his
father, Charles Beaubien, the present claimant, became the heir of
one undivided half of the land granted, and purchased the
remaining undivided half from Joseph Pley, administrator of the
estate of- Stephen L. Lee, who was killed at the same time and
place as Narciso Beaubien.
"The genuineness 6f the signatures of the granting officers and
the signature of Joseph Pley, administrator of the estate of Stephen
L. Lee, are proven by the testimony of competent witnesses. The
signature of the clerk of the Probate Court, attached to a transript of the record of the court ordering the sale of the property of
Stephen L. Lee, deceased, is also proved to be genuine. Itis also
proven that Stephen L. Lee and Luis Lee, assigned in the original
p6tition, were one and the same individual, and that Narciso
Beaubien, the son of Charles Beaubien, the present claimant, died
without issue. The testimony also shows that the land has been
occupied from the time the grant was made up to the present day.
"I The supreme authorities of the remote province of New Spain,
afterwards the Republic of Mexico, exercised f'om time immemorial certain prerogatives a idpowers, which, although not positively
sanctioned by coigressional enactments, were universally conceded
by the Spanish and Mexican governments; and there being no evidence that these prerogatives and poweis were revoked or repealed
by the supreme authorities, it is to be presumed that the exercise of
them was lawful.. The subordinate authorities of the provinces implicitly obeyed these orders of the governors, which were continued

Oct. 1876.]

TAMELING V. U. S. FREEHOLD, ETC. Co.

659

for so long a period until they became the universal custom or unwritten law of the land, wherein they did not conflict with any subsequent congressional enactment. Such is the principle sanctioned
by the Supreme Court of the United States, as expressed in the case
of Fremont v. The United States, 17 How. 542, which decision now
governs all cases of a similar nature.
"The grant being a positive one, without any subsequent conditions attached, and made by a competent authority, and having
been in the possession and occupancy of the grantees and their
assigns from the time the grant was made, it is the opinion of this
office that the grant is a good and valid one, and that a legal title
vests in Charles Beaubien to the land embraced within the limits
contained in the petition. The grant is therefore approved by this
office and transmitted to the proper- department, with the recommendati6n that it be confirmed by the Congress of the United
States.

"WILLIAM1 PELHAM, Surveyor-General.
"SURVEYOR-GENERAL'S OFFICE,
"SANTA Fi, N. Al., Dec. 30, 1856.
"SURVEYOR-GEN

RAL'S OFFICE,

" SANTA F ,N.

M., Dec. 31, 1856.

"The foregoing is a true copy of the original on file in this'office.
"WILLIAM PELHAM, Surveyor- General."
Narciso Beaubien, the co-grantee with Stephen L. Lee (alias
Luis Lee), of said claim No. 14, died in the year 1847, without
issue, whereby his father, the said Charles Beaubien, became
the sole heir of whatever interest the deceased had in said land-

grant or claim; that in the year aforesaid the said Lee also
died; that afterwards, and on the fourth day of May, in the
year 1848, the said Charles Beaubien acquired the interest of
the said Lee in said land-grant, by a purchase and conveyance
thereof in due form of law, from the administrator of the estate
of the said Lee; that the said Charles Beaubien had and possessed all of the rights, titles, and interests, both in law and
equity, in said grant, which, by the proceedings above set forth
and referred to in the aforesaid letter of the Secretary of the
Interior, were vested in the said Narciso Beaubien and the said
Stephen L. Lee, at the time of their death as aforesaid.
The said Charles Beaubien retained his aforesaid interest in
said grant until after the passage and approval of a certain act

TABIELING V. U. S. FREEHOLD, ET.

Co.

[Sup. Ct.

of the Congress of the United States, entitled "An Act to
confirm certain private land-claims in the Territory of New
Mexico," approved June 21, 1860.
The claim designated in said act of Congress as claim No. 14
is the claim of the said Charles Beaubien to that tract of land
hereinbefore described by its boundaries, and herein designated
as the " Sangre. de Cristo grant," and which tract of land
includes the said " Costilla estate."
After the passage and approval of the said act of Congress,
and on the seventh day of April, 1864, the right, title, and
interest of the said Charles Beaubien in and to the said Sangre
de Cristo grant, otherwise the said claim No. 14, was absolutely
conveyed and vested in Hon. William Gilpin; and thereafter
and prior to the fourteenth day of July, 1870, the said Gilpin
conveyed the right, title, and interest in said grant by him so
derived to one Moiton Coates Fisher; that thereafter, and on
the day and year last aforesaid, the said Morton Coates Fisher
absolutely conveyed to the plaintiffs his right, title, and interest derived as aforesaid in and to that part and portion of the
said grant or claim No. 14, generally known and herein designated as the " Costilla estate," the boundaries of which said
estate, as taken.from the said conveyance thereof, are hereinbefore given, and include the piece or parcel of land described
in the plaintiff's declaration, and the possession of which is in
controversy in this suit.
The said -plaintiff has not conveyed or granted his title
derived as aforesaid to the piece or parcel of land described in
the declaration in this cause, nor the right of the possession
thereof, to the defendant or other person; but has claimed the
title to and possession of said land ever since the conveyance
as aforesaid by the said Fisher to the plaintiff.
If the facts aforesaid, under the law, show that the plaintiff
is entitled to the possession of the land described in the declaration in this case, then the finding of the court shall be for the
plaintiff; if the said facts under the law show that the plaintiff
is not entitled to such possession, then the finding of the court
shall be for the defendant; ana upon the finding of the court
the proper judgment in ejectment for the plaintiff, or for the
defendant, as the case may be, shall be entered of record in
said court.

Oct. 1876.]

TAMELING V.

U. S.

FREEHOLD, ETC. CO.

661

Judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiff. It was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory, and Tameling
sued out this writ of error.
Argued by 11r. John A. Wills for the plaintiff in error, and
by Hr. Matt. H. Carpenter and Mr. W. W. Mac arland for the
defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The determination of this case depends upon the effect of the
act of Congress "to confirm certain private land claims in the
Territory of New Mexico," approved June 21, 1860. 12 Stat.
71. Did the act confirm the Sangre de Cristo grant to the
extent of the exterior boundaries of the claim ? If it did, the
judgment below must be affirmed. If it did not, inasmuch as no
specific portion of the land within those boundaries was severed
from the remainder and confirmed to the claimant, the plaintiff
below, who derives title under him, has not shown a right to
the demanded premises, and the judgment must be reversed.
We have repeatedly held that individual rights of property,
in the territory acquired by the United States from Mexico,
were not affected by the change of sovereignty and jurisdiction.
They were entitled to protection, whether the party had the
full and absolute ownership of the land, or merely an equitable
interest therein, which required some further act of the government to vest in him a perfect title. The duty of providing
the mode of securing them and fulfilling the obligations which
the treaty of cession imposed, was within the appropriate province of the political department of the government. In discharging it, Congress required that all titles to real property in
California, whether inchoate or consummate, should undergo
judicial examination. If a party failed to avail himself within
a prescribed time of the provisions of the act of March 3,
1851, and prosecute his claim thereunder, it was completely
barred, and the land covered by it reverted to the public
domain. The California land-claims disposed of in this court
were asserted in a direct proceeding against the United States.
It became our duty, as it had been that of the board of commissioners -and of the District Court, to decide on their validity,
upon the documentary and other evidence incorporated in the
MR. JUSTICE DAVIS

662

TAMELING v. U. S. FREEHOLD, ETC. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

record. We were required to be-,overned by the treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo, the law of "nwtions, the laws, usages, and
customs of the government from which the clain was derived,
the principles of equity, anid the decisions of this court, as far
as they were applicable. Were we now exercising appellate
jurisdiction over the proceedings of a court or officer specially
appointed to determine the validity and extent of the grant in
question, it would be our duty to either affirm or reverse the
decision, pursuant to the rules prescribed for our guidance.
But Congress -legislated otherwise for the adjustment of landclaims in New Mexico. By the eighth section of the act of
1854, 10 Stat. 308, the duty of ascertaining their origin, nature,
character, and extent was expressly enjoined upon the surveyorgeneral of that Territory. He was empowered for that purpose to issue notices, summon witnesses, administer eaths, and
perform all necessary acts in the premises. He was directed to
make a full report, with his decision, as to the validity or invalidity of each claim, under the laws, usages, and customs of the
country before its cession to the United States. That report,
according to a form to be prescribed by the Secretary of the
Interior, wvas to be laid before Congress for such action as
might be deemed just and proper.
It will thus be seen that the modes for the determination of
land-claims of Spanish or Mexican origin were radically different.. Where they embraced lands in California; a procedure,
essentially judicial in its character, was provided, with the right
of ultimate appeal by either the 6laimant or the United States
to this court. No jurisdiction over such claims in New Mexico
was conferred upon the courts; but the surveyor-general, in the
exercise of tile authority with which he was invested, decides
them in the first instance. The final action on each claim
reserved to Congress, is, of course, conclusive, and therefore not
subject to review in this or any other forum:
It is obviously not the duty of this court to sit in judgment
upon either the recital of matters of fact by the surveyor-general, or his decision declaring the validity of the grant. They
are embodied in his xeport, which was laid before Congress for
its consideration and action. We need only say that lie distinctly sets forth that Luis Lee and Narciso Beaubien, Sept. 27,

Oct. 1876.]

TADIIELING

v. U. S.

FREEHOLD, ETC. CO.

663

1843, petitioned the then civil and military governor of New
Mexico " for a grant of land in what is now the county of
Taos, embracing the Costilla, Culebra, and Trinchera Rivers,
including the Rito of the Indians, and Sangre de Cristo to its
junction with the Del Norte River;" that the petition was
referred by the governor to the prefect, with instructions to
give the possession asked for by the petitioners; that they were
put in possession with the boundaries contained in the petition,
"vesting in them, their children and successors, a title in fee to
said lands." After stating that, by the death of one of the
grantees, his heir-at-law, Charles Beaubien, inherited the undivided half of the land, and that he acquired the remainder
from the administrator of the other grantee, the surveyor-general reaches the conclusion that the grant is a good and valid
one, and that a legal title vests in Charles Beaubien to the land
embraced within the limits contained in the petition. The
grant was approved, and recommended for confirmation by
Congress.
Congress acted upon the claim "as recommended for confirThe confirmation being
mation by the surveyor-general."
absolute and unconditional, without any limitation as to quantity, we must regard it as effectual and operative for the entire
tract.
The plaintiff in error insists that, under the Mexican colonization laws in force when the grant was mhade, not more than
eleven square leagues for each petitioner could be lawfully
granted. As there were in the present instance but two petitioners, and the land within the boundaries in question is
largely in excess of that quantity, the .invalidity of the grant
has been earnestly and elaborately pressed upon our attention.
This was matter for the consideration of Congress; and we
deem ourselves concluded by the action of that body. The
phraseology of the confirmatory act is, in our opinion, explicit
and unequivocal. 'In Rain. et al. v. Carter et al., sul)ra, p. 78,
we recognized and enforced, as tle settled doctrine of this court,
that such an act passes the title of the United States as effectually as if it contained in terms a grant de novo, and that a
grant may be made by a law as well as by a patent pursuant to
Judgment affirmed.
law.

