Oct. 1876.]

-

SMITH, EXECUTOR,

V.

CHAPMAN, EXECUTOR.

41

this bill was to enforce the assignment, and nothing else, the
amount received from other sources had no other effect on the
rights of. creditors than to diminish the amount of their debts
on which the dividend was to be estimated.
A circumstance quite as strong against the appellant is, that,
though he had, as plaintiff, the control of the management of this
suit, he took no steps to have the unpaid stock collected, had no
order made for its payment by the shareholders, nor any directions to the receiver to enforce its payment. No other creditor
took any step in that direction. Neither the receiver, the other
creditors, nor the appellant, have in any manner, up to the argument in this court, looked to that source as part of the fmnd to
be distributed under this assignment.
Under all these circumstances, we hold, that, if any right to
collect this unpaid stock passed to the assignee, of which there
is great doubt, the parties to-this suit have waived and abandoned that right, and the appellant cannot now set it up to
reverse this decree.
-Decreeaffirmed.

SMIITH, EXECUTOR, v. CHAPMfAN, EXECUTOR.
In an action against an executor upon a contract of his testator, where a devastavit is not alleged and proved, a judgment de bonis propriis is erroneous.

ERROR, to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
-District of Minnesota.
The case was argued by Mr. WF. P. Clough for the plaintiff
in error, and by Mr. Thomas J. -Durantfor the defendant in
error.

MR.JUSTICE CLIFFORD 'delivered the opinion of the court.
Judgmentwas recovered in the Supreme Court of the State of
New York by George W. Chapman, executor of Eunice Chapman,
deceased, against John Gordon. then in-full life, since deceased,
in me sum of $4,759.80; and it appearing that the judgment was
unsatisfied and in full force, and that the judgment debtor had
deceased, the judgment creditor brought an action of debt on

42

SMITH, EXECUTOR, V. CHAPIMAN, EXECUTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

that judgment against the executors of the deceased judgment
debtor, in which he demanded judgment for the amount recovered
against the testator, with lawful interest. Due service was
made on the first-named defendant; and he appeared and filed an
answer setting up the following defence: That most of the
property, rights, and credits of the testator, at the time of his
death, 'were then situated in San Francisco, in the State of
California; that the last will and testament of the deceased was
duly proved, approved, and recorded in the probate court for the
county where the testator died; that letters testamentary, in due
form of law, were issued and delivered to P. B. Clark, one of
the persons named in his will as executor, and that he, as sole
executor of the estate of the decedent, fully administered the
same; and.that the defendant, at the time of the commencement
of the action, had not, nor has he since had, any property, rights,
or credits of the deceased in-his hands to be administered.
Replications not being allowed by the law; of the State, the
parties, having waived a jury, went to #ial before the court
without any' further pleadings, 'and the verdict and judgment
were f r the plaintiff.. Rev. Stat., MIinn. 1866, p.. 459.
Exceptions were filed by the defendant to the rulings of the
court-in the progress of the trial;' but the court 'here. does not
find it necessary to determiine the questions raised by the exceptions, as it is clear that the form of the judgmen~t is erroneous,
and that the judgment must be reversed for that reason. Enough
has already been remarked to show that the action was debt on
judgment recovered against thie deceased testator of the defendat, and that nothing is alleged in the declaration to show that
the defendant has become personally liable for the judgment
debt.
Viewed in the light of those suggestions, it is clear that the
judgment should have been de lonis testatoris,instead of de bonis
propriis,as sho'vn in the record. Unless an administrator or
executor in such a case pleads a false plea, he is not liable to a
judgment beyond the assets in his hands to be administered; and
it is well settled *that a plea,of plene administravitis not necessarily a false plea, and that the judgmei in such a case, even
if the plea is not sustained, should be a -judgment de bonis
testatoris. Siglar v. Hfaywood, 8 Wheat. 675.

Oct. 1876.]

SMITH, EXECUTOR, V. CHAPMAN, EXECUTOR.

43

Instead of that, the judgment in this case was as follows: "I1t
is considered by the court, and adjudged, that the plaintiff d6
have, and recover of and from the defendant, impleadeci as aforesaid, the sum of $7,648.33," with interest and costs.
Beyond doubt, the suit in this case was against the defendant,
as the executor of the last will and testament of John Gordon,
deceased; and it is equally clear, that the declaration does not contain any allegation that the defendant had been guilty of any waste
of the assets in his hands, or of any mismanagement in the performance of his duties as executor of the last will and testament
of the deceased.
When the suit is against the defendant as executor, and no
devastavit is alleged, it is clear that a judgment de bonis propriis
is unwarranted, even .if
it appear that the defendant has received
assets, unless it appears that no assets can be foumd. Boyce's
Ex'rs v. Grundy, 9 Pet. 275. Plene administravitis doubtless a good plea, and, if sustained
by sufficient evidence, it is a good defence; but the rule is,
that
the jury, under such a plea, if no devastavit is averred, must find
the amount of the assets, if any, before any judgment can be
rendered. Fairfax's Ex'r v. Fairfax,5 Cranch, 19.
Even if it appear that an executor has received assets, still the
judgment or decree should be against him, in his representative
character, to be levied out of the assets in his hands, when no
devastavit is averred and proved, unless it appear that no such
assets can be found; in which event, the rule is, that the judgment
may, if so ordered, be levied out of his own proper goods.
Apply these rules to the case before the court, and it is clear
that the judgment is erroneous.
Judgment reversed.
-

