108

Co~msslom Rs, ETC.,

v.

LuCAs, TREASURER.

[Sup. Ct.

State insists, on the one hand, upon all persons who exercise the
office of pilot, witlin certain districts, being duly educated for
the purpose, and having a certificate of their fitness, and insists,
on the other ]land, that the master shall, within these districts,
take one of these persons on board to superintend the steering
of his vessel, the usual relation of owner and servant is to be
entirely at an end; and still less do I see why the sufferer is to
be deprived of all practical redress for injuries inflicted upon
him by the ship which such a pilot navigates."
By the common law, the. owners are responsible for the damages committed by their vessel, without any reference fo the
particular agent by whose negligence the injury was committed.
By the maritime law, the vessel, as well as the owners, is liable
to the party injured for damages caused by its torts. By that
law, the vessel is deemed to be an offending thing, and may be
prosecuted, without any reference to the adjustment of responsibility between the owners and employds, f6r the negligence which
resulted in the injury. Any departture from this liability of
the owners or of the vessel, except as the liability of the former
may be released by a surrender of the vessel, has been found in
practice to work great injustice. The statute ought to be very
clear, before we should conclude that any such departure was
intended by Congress. The section we have cited would not
justify such a conclusion. Its language readily admits of the
construction -we have given, and that construction is inharmony
Judgment affirmed.
with the purposes of the act.

BOAitD OF CO3I3IISSIONERS OF Tar:EOA..OE. COouTY
LuCAS, TREASUR.ER.

v.

1. If by any direction of a Supreme Court of a.State an entire cause is determined, the decision, when reduced to form and entered in the records of the
court, constitutes a final judgment, whatever may be its technical designation, -and is subject- in a proper case to review by this court. So held,
where, hpon appeal from an interlocutory order made by a circuit-court of
Indiana, granting a temporary injunction, the Supreme Court of the State
reversed the order and remanaed the cause to the lower court, with directions to dismiss the complaint.
2. Unlegs restrained by provisions of its constitution, the legislature of a State

Oct. 1876.]

Co.)vmssloXERs,

ETC., v.

LucAs, TREASURER.

109

possesses the power to direct a restitution to tax-payers of a county, or
other municipal corporation, of property exacted from them by taxation,
into whatever form the property may be changed, so long as it remains in
possession of the municipality. The exercise of this power infringes upon
no provision of the Federal Constitution.

ERRoR to the Supreme Court of the State of Indiana.
By an act of the legislature of Indiana, passed on the twelfth
day of May, 1869, counties and townships in that State were
authorized to aid in the construction of railroads, by taking
-stock in railroad companies, and making donations to them.
Before giving the aid, it was necessary for the officers of the
county, the board of commissioners, to consult the electors of
the county upon the subject, and obtain their approval of the
proceeding at an election called for that purpose.
Such
approval having been obtaiined from the electors of Tippecanoe
county, the board of commissioners of the county, during the
years 1871, 1872, and 1873, subscribed and paid for stock in the
Lafayette, Muncie, and Bloomington Railroad Company, a
corporation organized under the laws of the State, and engaged
at the time in building a railroad passing through the county.
The stock thus subscribed and paid for amounted to six thousand six hundred and ten shares, of the par value of fifty dollars
a share; and for them the company issued its certificates to the
commissioners. The money with which the stock was paid
was collected by a special tax levied for that purpose. The
act provided for collecting the moley before the subscription
could be made.
Afterwards, on the 17th of December, 1872, the legislature
passed an act "to require railroad companies to issue stock,
paid for'by taxes voted in aid of the construction of their railroads, to the tax-payers or their assigns, and to issue unclaimed
stock for the benefit of the common-school fund." This act
provided, that, in all cases where stock had been taken by
counties and paid for from taxes levied and collected under the
act of May, 1869, it should be the duty of the treasurer of- the
proper county, upon request prior to Jan. 1, 1874, to issue
to the several tax-payers living, and to the personal representatives of *uch as may have died, a certificate, stating the amount
of tax paid by them respectively,, the date of payment, and the

110

C0MMISSIONERS, ETC., v. LucAs, TREASURER.

[Sup. Ct.

name of the company in aid of which the tax was paid, as the
fact should appear from the proper tax duplicates and record in
his office.
-The certificates thus issued were made assignable, and any
]awful holder could present and surrender them to the proper
company previous to Jan. 1, 1874, in sums equal in amount
to any number of shares, and it was made the duty of the company to issue a certificate of paid-up capital stock to the amount
of the certificate of taxes paid which was surrendered. For the
stock unclaimed within the time designated a certificate was
to issue to different townships in the county, for the benefit of
the common-school fund. The act declared that the issuing of
the stock to individuals or townships, as thus provided, should
operate to cancel pro tanto the stock held by the county under
the provisions of the act of May, 1869.
The present complaint was filed by the commissioners of the
county in the Tippecanoe Civil Circuit -Court, to restrain the
treasurer of the county from issuing to tax-payers the certificates
of taxes paid, as provided by the act of 1872. The treasurer
had previously, against the remonstrance of the commissioners,
issued a number of certificates to different parties, and declared
his intention to issue certificates to all parties applying who
were entitled to receive them under the act. In the complaint,
the commissioners denied the power of the State to take the
stock, or any part of it, from them, and give it to individuals for
their private benefit; and alleged, that by the issuing of the
certificates their right was made questionable, a cloud was cast
upon their title, and -the market value of the stock held by them
was destroyed, and that they-were deprived of their rights as
stockholders in the company. They, therefore, prayed that a
temporary injunction be granted against the treasurer, and that
it might be made perpetual on the heaiing.
The complaint was verified" and, afternotice and argument of
counsel, an order was made granting a temporary injunction, as
prayed. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the State, the
order, or the judgment, as it is termed in the language of the
record, was reversed, and the cause remanded to the lower court,
with instructions to dismiss the complaint. From this judgment
the cause is brought to this court on a writ of error.

Oct. 1876.]

ComMaISSIONERS, ETC., V. LUCAS, TREASURER.

111

Mr. Z. Baird, for the plaintiff in error.
Under the Indiana Code of Procedure, the judgment of the
Supreme Court, reversing that of the inferior court, and remanding the cause with instructions to dismiss the complaint, determined the merits of the controversy. It was, therefore, a final
judgment within the meaning of the act of Congress. Whiting
v. The Bank of the United States, 13 Pet. 15; Porgay et al. v.
Conrad et al., 6 How. 202; French v. Shoemaker, 12 Wall. 86;
Atherton et al. v. Fowler et al., 91 U. S. 143.
The plaintiff in error is a municipal corporation, exercising
delegated powers, legislative, executive, and judicial. 1 Gavin
& Hord, 247 et seq. It lawfully acquired the stock in controversy, and became the-owner thereof in its corporate name,
and cannot be deprived of it in the manner prescribed by the
act of Dec. 17, 1872.
Where corporate powers are conferred, there is an implied
contract between the State and the corporators that the property held under their charter shall not, without their consent,
be taken and appropriated to other uses. Trustees of-Dartmouth
College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518; Cooley on Const. Lira.
235; Dillon on Mun. Corp. 8; Armstrong et al. v. The Board of
Commissioners of Dearborn County, 4 Blackf. 208; -Edwards
v. aggers et al., 19 Ind. 406 ; Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43.
Under the constitution of Indiana, and the peculiar powers
conferred by law upon the board, of county commissioners, the
latter, as to certain of such powers, - including that to acquire
railroad stock, - is a private corporation. In levying the tax
to create a fund with. which to take the stock, it exercised
power as a public corporation; but in making the subscription
and acquiring the stock, for its advantage and emolument, it
acted as a private corporation. It certainly does not hold the
stock for public purposes in the sense that the power of the
legislature over it is without limit, but, on the contrary, as a
trustee for the benefit of the whole people of the country in
their aggregate capacity. Its title is as valid as if the stock
had been purchased with the funds collected for general purposes, if such funds could be lawfully applied thereto, or, as if
it had been acquired by gift, bequest, or in any other legitimate
mode. . The act in question attempts to divest that title, and vest

112

Co11ASS1ONERS, ETC., v. LUCAS, TREASURER.

[Sup. Ct.

it in individuals. It is, therefore, clearly beyond the scope of
the legislative power. Town of Milwaukee v. City of Milwaukee,
12 Wis. 93; State of Wisconsin, ex rel., &c., v. The County
Court, 34 id. 546; Trustees of Dartmouth College v. Woddward,
supra; Terrett v. Taylor, supra; State of Wisconsin, ex rel.,
v. Haben, Treasurer, &e., 22 Wis. 660; Bailey v. The
Mayor, &e., 3 Hill, 531; Atkins v. Town of Randolph, 31 Vt.
266.
Powers granted exclusively for public purposes are vested in
the corporation in its public, political, or municipal character;
but if the girant is for the purpose of private advantage and
emolument, though the public may derive a common benefit
therefrom, the corporation, quoad hoc, stands on the same footing as any.individual or body of persons upon whom the like
special franchises have been conferred. Trustees of -Dartmouth
College v.- Wloodward, supra; Philips v. Berry, 1 Ld. Raym. 8;
s. c. 2 T. R. 352; Allen v. JL"cKean, 1 Sfimn. 297; The People
v. Morris, 13 Wend. 331; 2 Kent, Com. 275 (4th ed.); United
States Bank v. -planters'Bank, 9 Wheat. 907 ; Clark v. Corporation of Washington, 12 id. 40; .2loodalay v. East I-ndia Co.,
1 Bro. Ch. 469.
As the act of Dec. -17, 1872, invades the right of priyate
property and impairs the obligations of a contract, it is in violatioti of'the, Constitution of the United States, and void.
Mr. H. W. Chase ano. M.1Tr. J. R. Coffroth for the defendant
in error.
"1. The judgment of the Supreme Court of Indiana is not
final. The order of the Circuit Court awarding an injunction
was merely interlocutory; passed at a preliminary state of
the proceedings, and not upon the final hearing of the case, and
the action of the Supreme Court was had upon that order.
2. A county, being a political organization for public purposes,
is under the complete control of the State. Within the expressed constitutional restrictions, it or its property may be dealt
with by the legislature as it -deemsvise and expedient, provided
that the property be secured for the uses 6f those for whomand
at whose expense it was originally purchased. -Darlingtonv.
Mayor, J-e., 31 N Y. 164; X ycoming: v. nion, 15 Penn. St.
166; 'Grim v. Weissenbery, 57 id. 430 ; Philadelp'iav. Fox,

Oct. 1876.]

CO'II1iISSIONERS, ETC., V. LUCAS, TREASURER.

113

64 id. 169; County v. County, 12 Ill. 1; Dennis v. Maynard,
15 id. 477; Love v. Schenck, 12 Ired. 304: Louisville, &c. Railroad Co. v. County Court, &c., 1 Sneed, 637; Sharp v. Contra
Costa Co., 34 Cal. 288; State v. St. Louis Co., 34 Mo. 546 ;
City of Augusta v. North, 57 Me. 392; Wade v. Richmond, 18
Gratt. 583; State v. Votaw, 8 Blackf. 2; Sloan v. State, id.
364; State Bank v. Madison, 3 Ind. 43; Goodrich v. Winchester, 26 id. 119; Maryland v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co.,
3 How. 534; East Hartfordv. Hartford Bridge Co., 10 id. 511;
Mulligan v. Corbins, 7 Wall. 487.
3. The stock in question was purchased by a fund raised for
that specific purpose by the exercise of the taxing power.
Dividing it among the tax-payers, in proportion to the amount
by them severally contributed, conflicts with no constitutional
provision.
The board had but a naked legal title. The
individual tax-payers were alone beneficially interested. The
road having been completed, all participation in the management of the company was wisely withdrawn from the county
board, which was organized solely for the administration of the
affairs of the county.
after making the- foregoing statement
of the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is objected, in limine, that this court has no jurisdiction of
the cause, on the alleged ground that the judgment rendered is
not a final judgment. The order of the Circuit Court, granting
a preliminary injunction, was, it is true, iiiterlocutory, and, if
the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State had been
limited to a simple reversal, the objection would have been
tenable. The cause would then have remained in the -Circuit
Court for further proceedings. But the direction to that court,
accompanying the reversal of its order to dismiss the complaint,
made a final disposition of the cause. With the entry of that
judgment the cause was at an end. With the peculiarities of
the practice of the Indiana courts we have nothing to do. If,
upon an appeal from an interlocutory order, a final disposition
of the merits of a cause can be made in that State, it is no. concern of ours. If, by any direction, the entire cause is, in fact,
determined, the decision, when reduced to form and entered
MR. JUSTICE FIELD,

VOL. 111.

8

III

COMMISSIONERS, ETC., v. LUCAS, TREASURER.

[Sup. Ct.

in the records of the court, constitutes a final judgment, subject in a proper case to our review, whatever may be its technical designation. The course adopted in this case was evidently
pursued, from the fact that the whole merits of the controversy
had-been considered on the motion for the preliminary injunction. The application was founded upon the alleged invalidity
of the act of 1872; no other matter was discussed, and all
objections of form in the proceeding were waived, that the
validity Of Ihe act might be considered and determined. Being,
determined against the view advanced by the plaintiffs, the
cause, so far as the State courts were concerned, was practically
at an end.
In this court, also, the validity of the act of 1872-is the sole
question presented. The act is assailed here, as in the court
below, as authorizing an invasion of the right of private property, and as impairing the obligation of an executed contract.
Were the transaction one between the State and a private individual, the invalidity of the act would not be a matter of serious doubt. Private property cannot be taken fr6m individuals
by the -State, except for public' purposes, and then only upon
compensation, or by way of taxation; and any enactments to
that end would be regarded as an illegitimate and unwarranted
exercise of legislative power. And any attempt by the legislature to take private property from its grantee, and restore it
to its grantor, would be in conflict with the constitutional inhibition against impairing the obligation of contracts.
.But between the State and municipal corporations, such as
cities, counties, and towns, the relation is different from that
between the*State and the individual. Municipal corporations
are mere instrumentalities of the State, for the convenient
administration of government; and their powers may be qualified, enlarged, or withdrawn, at the pleasure of the legislature.
Their tenure of property, derived from the. State for specific
public purposes, or obtained for such purposes through means
which the State alone can authorize, - that is, taxation, -is so
far subjectto the control of the legislature, that the property
may be applied to other public uses of the municipality than
thofe oiiginally designated. This follows from the nature of
such bodies, and the- dependent character of their existence.

Oct. 1876.]

Co1.iSSIONERS, ETC., v. LUCAS, TREASURER.

115

But property, derived by them from other sources, is often
held, by the terms of its grant, for special uses, from which it
cannot be diverted by the legislature. In such cases, the property is protected by all the guards against legislative interference possessed by individuals and private corporations for their
property. And there would seem to be reasons equally cogent,
in abstract justice, against a diversion by the legislature from
the purposes of a municipality of property raised for its use by
taxation from its inhabitants. There are probably provisions in
the constitutions of the several States which'would prevent any
marked diversion in that way; but whether a contract between
the State and the municipality, within the protection of the
Federal Constitution, is implied in such cases, that the property
acquired shall not be diverted from the purposes of the municipality and appropriated to other uses, is a question we are not
now called upon to determine. In the present case, it is not
necessary fgr us to go over the ground, so ably explored by the
judges of the Supreme Court of Indiana, and attempt to mark
the line within Which the State may control and dispose of property held by a municipal corporation, and beyond which its action
is subject to the same restraints as are its dealings with the property of individuals. It is enough that the present case is free
from difficulty. Here there is no attempted diversion of the
property from the .purpose for which it was acquired: that purpose has been accomplished. The money. having been obtained
by compulsory contribution from the inhabitants, the legislature
could undoubtedly have directed its restitution to them at any
time before the subscription was made. If the road had been
previously built, and the aid conteinplated had thus become
unnecessary, such restitution would have been proper and just.
Numerous cases might be named where the return of taxes collected would be the only just proceeding to be taken. Money
raised for a special emergency may not be required by the emergency ceasing.
The changed condition of the property collected in this case,
by its use in paying for the stock subscribed, could not affect
the power of the State: it only made the subsequent distribution of thb pr6perty to the tax-payers a matter of greater difficulty. Nor could the fact, that the commissioners of the county

116 "

1HOiE

INS. CO. v. CITY COUNCIL.

[Sup. Ct.

took the'certificate in their name for the stock subscribed, remove
the property from th c6ntrol of the State. The commissioners
took the st6ek, not to hold as an investment which was to yield
an annual revenue to the c6unty, but to aid in the construction
of a work in which the public, were interested,- a railroad
through the county. As justly observed by counsel, the manAgement of :the affairs of a railroad company is no part of the
proper business of a county; ,and, when the purpose designed by
the subscription was accomplished, it was sound policy to relieve
the county officers froi any participation in such management.
Of the power of the State to direct a restitution to tax-payers of
a county, or 'other municipal corporation-.of property exacted
from them by taxation, into whatever form the property may be
changed,.so long as it remains in possession of the municipality,
we have no. doubt. 'The exercise of the power infringes upon
no provision of the Federal Constitution. Fffrter than this, it
is not necessary for us to go for the disposition of this case.
Judgment affirmeq.

JIo~m INi1X14Ab , CoxriNy_

v. CITY

Cou cm OF AUGUSTA.

1. Where a statute of,.or authority exercised under, a State is drawn in questionj on the ground of its repugnance to the Constitution of the United
States, or a right is claimed under that instrument, the decision of a State
court in favor of the validity of such statute or a athority,'or adverse to the
right so claimed, can be reviewed here.
2. Aminsurance company conformed to the-requirements of the aot-of the legislature of Georgia, and received from the comptroller-general a'certificate
authorizing it to transact business in that State for one year from Jan. 1,
1874. Thai act does not, expressly or by implication; limit or restrain
the exercise of the taxing power of the State, or of any municipality. An
ordinance of the city council of Augusta, passed Jan. 5, 1874, imposed
from that date an annu'al license tax "on each and every fire, marine,
or accidental insurance company. located, having an office or doing business
within" that city. Held, that the ordinance is not -in violation of that
clause of the -Constitution of the United States which declares that "no
State shall pass any law impairing the obligations of contracts."

to the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia.
A statute of the legislature of Georgia, to regulatd insurance
business -and insurance agencies in the State of Georgia, passed
March 19; 1869, ehacts as followsERROR

