Oct. 1876.]

SCHACKER V. HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO.

241

such a contract, the United States were not liable to the claimant for its loss, and, of course, could not be to the insurance
companies which were subrogated to his rights. Macardierv.
The Chesapeake Insurance Co., 8 Cranch, 39; The Schooner
Volunteer, 1 Sumn. 551; The Brig Spartan, 1 Ware, 153;
_Donohue v. Kittel, 1 Cliff. 138.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER dissented.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG did not take part in the decision.

SCHACKER

v.

HARTFORD FIRE INSURANCE

COMPANY.

The doctrine in Lee v. Watson, 1 Wall. 837, that, "in an action upon a moneydemand, where the general issue is pleaded, the matter in dispute is the debt
claimed, and its amount, as stated in the body of the declaration, and not
merely the damages alleged or the prayer for judgment at its conclusion must
be considered in determining whether this court can take jurisdiction," affirmed
and applied to the present case.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. W. T. Burgess for
the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. George 0. Ide for the defendant in error.

MR. C11= JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
On opening this record, we find that the action below was
assumpsit upon a policy of insurance for $1,400.
There
are two counts in the declaration, but they are both upon
the same cause of action; and although the damages, both in
the writ and declaration, are laid at $3,000, it is apparent
from the whole record that there could not be a recovery in
any event for more than $1,400 and interest from July 14,
1873.
Our jurisdiction, when this writ issued, was limited incases
of this character to those in which the "matter in dispute,
exclusive 'of costs, exceeds the sum or value of $2,000."
Rev. Stat., sect. 692. Now, in the same class of cases, where
voi. IN.

16

GARFIELDE v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

a judgment or decree has been rendered since May 1, 1875,
the amount must be $5,000. 18 Stat. 316.
In Lee v. WTatson, 1 Wall. 337, we held, that "in an action
upon a money demand, whdre the general issue is pleaded, the
matter in dispute is the debt claimed, and its amount, as stated
in the body of the declaration, and.not merely the damages
alleged or the prayer for judgment at its conclusion must be
considered in determining whether this court can take jurisdiction." Applying. this rule, which is clearly right, to the
present case, it is ordered that the writ of error be
-Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

GARFIELDE v. UNITED STATES.
The Post-Office Department, by public notice, invited proposals for conveying
the mails on route No. "43,182, from Portland, Oregon, by Port Townsend
(XW. T.) and San Juan, to Bitka, Alaska, fourteen hundred miles and back,
once a month, in safe and suitable steamboats." The notice, after fixing
the time of departure and arrival from the terminal ports, contained the
following: "Proposals invited to begin at Port Townsend (W. T.), five hundred miles less. Present pay, $34,800 per annum." Held, 1. That, under sect.
248 of the act of June 8 1872 (17 Stat. 313), this was a sufficient notice that
proposals were desired for carrying the mails between Port Townsend and
Sitka. 2. That the acceptance by the Post-Office Department 6f the proposal of a bidder to so carry them created a contract of the same force
and .effect as if a formal contract had been written out and signed by the
parties.

the Court of Claims.
In addition to the facts set forth in the opinion of the court,
the court below found that the appellant's proposal was as
-follows: APPEAL from

"The undersigned, Selucius Garfielde, whose post-office address
is Port Townsend, County of Jefferson, Territory of Washington,
proposes to convey the mails of the United States from July 1, 1874,
to June 30, 1878, on route No. 43,132, between Port Townsend,'
and Sitka, Al.aska, under the advertisement of the Postmaster-General, dated Oct. 1, 1873, in safe and suitable steaniboats, 'with
celerity, certainty, and security' (law of June 8, 1872), for the
annual suini of $26,000.

