96

BIRD ET AL., Ex'Rs, v. LOUISIAN-A STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

sideration, as collateral security, he holds for the amount
advanced upon it, and for that amount only. WTilliams v. Smith,
2 Hill, 301.
In Allaire v. ffartsiorn, 1 Zabr. 663, the case was this:
Hartshorn sued Allaire on a note of $1,500 at ninety days,
made by Allaire. It was proved that the note had been misapplied by one Pettis, to whom it had been entrusted; that be
had pledged it to the plaintiff as security for $750 borrowed of
him on 1iegeman's check, and also as security for a $400 acceptance of another party then given up to Pettis.
On the trial, the court charged the jury, that, if any consideration was given by the plaintiff for. the note, "they should not
limit their verdict to the amount so given, but should find the
whole amount due on the face of the note." The case was carried to the court of errors and appeals of the State of New Jer-"
sey, upon an exception to this charge.. The court reversed the
judgment, holding that, although a bona fide holder, Hartshorn
could recover only the amount of his advances.
The case before us is governed by the rule that the portion
of an unperformed contract whikh is completed after notice of
a fraud is not within- the principle which protects a bona fide
purchaser.
No respectable authority has been cited to us sustaining a
contrary position, nor ,have we been able to find any. The
judgment below is based upon authority, and upon the soundest
principles of honesty and fair dealing, It has our concurrence,
and is affirmed.

BIRD ET AL., EXECUTORS, v. LOUISyANA STATE BANK.
1. A promissory note, bearing date Jan. 28, 1859, payable twelve months thereafter at the Citizens' Bank, New Orleans, and indorsed by A., the payee,
and B., the then owner thereof, who resided in Missouri, was, before maturity, placed in the branch of the Louisiana State Bank at Baton Rouge,
whose cashier indorsed and forwarded it to the mother bank at New Orleans
for collection. It was duly protested for non-payment by the notary of
the mother bank, who mailed notices of protest for the indorsers to the
cashier of the branch bank. A., upon whom reliafice was principally placed,
died, and his executors were qualified before the maturity of the note; but
neither they nor B. was served by the branch bank with ioticd of protest.

Oct. 1876.]

BIRD ET AL., EX'Rs, v. LOUISIANA STATE BANK.

97

fleld, that the bank was liable for any loss thereby sustained by the holder
of the note.
2. As the Statute of Limitations was suspended in Louisiana during tile war, the
note was not prescribed when the plaintiffs, the executors of A., made a legal
demand on the defendant by instituting this action, Jan. 5, 1870. The
defendant, by paying the note at that time, could, therefore, have been subrogated to their rights, and could have maintained suit against the maker in
their names.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. -E. T. Herrick and
WV. Race for the plaintiffs in error. Argued by 3ir.
3ir.
J.
-Durant,contra.
Thomas

a.

MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was tried by the court below, a jury being waived.
From the findings of fact, it appears that R. A. Stewart made a
promissory note at New Orleans, on the 28th of January, 1859,
payable to the order of H. Doyal, at twelve months after date,
with interest, at the Citizens' Bank, New Orleans, and that said
note was indorsed by Doyal. A. Bird, of Manchac, La., as the
agent of John Bird, of St. Louis, Mo. (the testator of the plaintiffs), before the maturity of the note, indorsed it, and deposited
it in the branch of the Louisiana State Bank, at Baton Rouge,
for collection. W. S. Pike, the cashier of the said branch bank,
indorsed the note, as cashier, before its maturity, and transmitted
it for collection to the defendant, - the mother bank at New
Orleans. When it became due, the defendant placed it in the
hands of the notary, whom it usually employ ed in its own business, for demand of payment and protest; and said notary duly
made demand, and protested the note for non-payment, and
mailed notices for the indorsers to Pike, cashier of the branch
bank at Baton Rouge. Doyal, the indorser, on whom reliance
was principally placed, resided, when the- note was made and
indorsed, on a plantation at New River, in the parish of Ascension, which adjoins that of Baton Rouge; but he died two days
afterwards, and executors of his will were immediately qualified.
No n6tice of protest was served on them; and for this cause, in
an action brought against them by the plaintiffs, they were held
not liable. No suit was ever brought against the maker of the
VOL.

11.

7-

98

BIRD ET AL., Ex'Rs, v. LOUISIANA STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ot.

note, he being wholly without credit, as to the payment of any
debt when it became payable; and as to him the note is n6w
prescribed. Neither the notary, nor any of the officers of the
bank or branch, knew of Doyal's death when the note was protested, nor does it appear that it was known to the testator of
the tlaintiffs. This suit was brought to recover the amount of
the note from the defendant, by reason of its alleged negligence
in not giving notice to the executors of the indorser, Doyal,
whereby the liability of his estate was lost. The court having
found these facts, and some others which we do not deem material to the decision, gave judgment for the defendant; whereupon the plaintiffs brought this writ of error.
Without stopping to inquire whether the mother bank and its
notary did their whole duty in reference to protesting the note,
and giving notice to the indorsers, we think it manifest that the
branch bank was delinquent, after receiving the notices from
the notary, in not giving notice to Bird, and the executors of
Doyal, or at least to Bird. Had the notices been sent to the
latter, it would. then have been his duty to notify the executors
of Doyal; but the branch bank, so far as appears from the facts
found in this case, did neither. The inclosing of notices by the
notary to the branch was notice to it that he (the notary) had
not served them on the prior indorsers. And as an agent,
charged with-the duty of collecting the note, and doing whatever was necessary to insure the liability of the indorsers if it
was not paid, the branch was bound to give notice of its nonpayment, at least to its principal, in order that he might do
what was requisite to protect himself, The neglect to do this
rendered the branch bank liable to the plaintiffs' testator for
the loss of the money; and it is conceded that the negligence
of the branch bank is chargeable upon the defendant. They
are one concern as to liability, though treated as separate
establishments and distinct entities in the transaction of business.
The only remaining question is, whether the plaintiffs or their
testator have, by their conduct or laches, released the defendant
from liability. It is contended, that the holder of the note was
boumd to.prosecute the maker, or to have prosecuted his claim
against the defendant in time to enable it to do so, on being

Oct. 1876.]

SHERLOCK ET AL. V. ALLING, AD-M1INISTRATOR.

99

subrogated to his rights; whereas, the plaintiffs have delayed
this suit until all claim against the maker is lost by prescription; and that it is no answer to this defence to say that the
maker was insolvent when the note became due, as he may have
since become abundantly able to pay.
There is much plausibility in this position; but a careful
examination of the dates shows that the note was not prescribed
on the 5th of January, 1870, when the plaintiffs made a legal
demand on the defendant by instituting this action. Less than
ten years had then elapsed since the maturity of the note, and,
deducting the period during which the war continued, according
to the rule adopted in the case of The Protector,12 Wall. 700,
it will appear that the time of prescription of five years had not
elapsed. The defendant, by paying the note at that time, could
have been subrogated to the rights of the plaintiffs, and maintained suit against the maker in their names. The court below
seems to have supposed that the time of trial was the point of
time to which the estimate was to be made; but in this it was
mistaken. The time of commencing the action was the proper
point.
Ju.dgment reversed, and record remanded, with directions to
award a venire de novo.

SHERLOCK ET AL. v. ALLL-G, ADMINISTRATOR.
1. Until Congress makes some regulation touching the liabilities of parties for
marine torts resulting in death of the persons injured, the statute of Indiana
giving a right of action to the personal representatives of the deceased, where
his death is caused by the wrongful act or omission of another, applies, the
tort being committed within the territorial limits of the State; and, as thus
applied, it constitutes no encroachment upon the commercial power of
Congress.
2. The action of Congress as to a regulation of commerce, or the liability for its
infringement, is exclusive of State authority; but, until some action is taken
by Congress, the legislation of a State, not directed against commerce or any
of its regulations, but relating generally to the rights, duties, and liabilities
of-citizens, is of obligatory force within its territorial jurisdiction, although
it may indirectly and remotely affect the operations of foreign or inter-State
commerce, or persons engaged in such commerce.

8. The act of March 80, 1852, "to provide for the better security of the lives of

