Oct. 1876.]

KERRISON, ASSIGNEE, V. STEWART ET AL.

155

It is sufficient now to say, as to that deed, that it is long

subsequent to the decree, and apart from it. Its validity and
force must stand or fall on its own merits, wherever and whenever they may be tried, in any issue made on them. It has
nothing to do with the appeal which, regards the errors of the
decree, and which the appellant has a right to have reversed.
When this is done, and she is placed where she ought to be in
that regard, the effect of the deed now under consideration may,
perhaps, be decided - on a supplemental bill, setting it up as
matter occurring since the commencement of the suit, or by the
appellees dismissing their present suit and relying on the title
acquired by that deed.
Another equally conclusive reason why we cannot consider
any other matters arising under the petition and answer is,
that there is no order, decree, or other action of the court on
them. The record closes with the bill and answer, the latter
filed May 23, 1874, and the present appeal allowed Aug. 4,
1874.
We, therefore, take no notice of this subsequent pleading,
but reverse the original decree, and remand the case to the
Circuit Court for such further peoceedings as to right and justice
Decree reversed.
may appertain.

KERRSOMN, ASSiGNEE, v. STEWART ET AL.
Where a trustee is invested with such powers and subjected to such olligations
that his beneficiaries are bound by what is done against him or by him, they
are not necessary parties to a suit against him by a stranger to defeat the
trust in 'whole or in part. In such case, he is in court on their behalf i and
they, though not parties, are concluded by the decree, unless it is impeached
for fraud or collusion between him and the adverse party.

APPFAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina.
Edwin L. Kerrison and Herman Leiding, of Charleston,
S. C., May 1, 1867, conveyed to Charles Kerrison, in trust,
the real estate in controversy in this suit, by deed, the material parts of which are as follows: -

156

KERRISON, ASSIGNEE, V. STEWART ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

" This deed of two parts, made this first day of May, in the year
of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-seven, between
Edwin L. Keryison and Herman Leiding, of the city of Charleston,
in the State aforesaid, lately trading together as merchants, copartners, under the name and style of Kerrison & Leiding, of the first
part, and Charles Kerrison, also formerly merchant, of the same
place, of the second part, witnesseth: That whereas, with a view
to enable them, the said Kerrison & Leiding, parties hereto of the
first part, to resume some mercantile trade or business, a majority
of their creditors, both in number and amount or value, have agreed
to take their notes, dated the first day of December last, payable,
with interest, from the first day of June, that was in A.D. 1865, two
and three years after the said date, secured by a conveyance to an
approved trustee of the real estate hereinafter fully and particularly -mentioned and described, and intended to be conveyed to
the said Charles Kerrison, hereto of -the second part, in trust, for
the better securing of the said notes, a schedule whereof, with the
names of the said creditors and the respective amounts of the notes
given to each of them, all bearing the date and payable on the days
aforesaid, is hereunto annexed and made a part of these presents;
and whereas all other the creditors of the said Kerrison & Leiding
may be disposed to come in upon the footing of the said agreement and security, and in that event it is intended to secure to
them that right, and also to provide for making the security more
effectual.
"Yow this deed further witnesseth, That the said Edwin L.
Kerrison and Herman Leiding, . . . for the better securing their
said notes, and such as may be given to their other creditors,
have granted, bargained, sold, and released, and by these presents
do grant, bargain, sell, and release, unto the said Charles Kerrison
[here follows the description of all the property]. To have and
to hold all and singular the premises unto the said Charles Kerrison, his heirs and assigns for ever,... in trust, nevertheless, in the
first place, to hold the said premises as a security for the several

and respective parties, creditors of the said Kerrison & Leiding,
named in the first section of. the schedule hereunto annexed, for
the several and respective sums set opposite to their names, with
interest, as above recited; and also for such other parties, creditors
of the said Kerrison & Leiding, the ndmes of which are, as is
believed and intended, to be correctly stafed in the second, section

of the said schedule hereto annexed, who,-at any time before the
first day of December next, idi lieu and satisfaction 6f. their claim,'

Oct. 1876.]

KERRISON, ASSIGNEE, V. STEWART ET AL.

15T

shall take and accept the notes of the said Kerrison & Leiding,
bearing the same date, 1st December, 1866, payable at the sane
tirr i (two and three years after date), with interest from the same
(1st June, 1865), each note for one-half the principal due such creditors as the creditors named in the first section of the said schedule
ba, taken and accepted; and thereupon the proper amount shall
be set opposite the names of the said creditors named in the second
section of the said schedule: and, in the next place, in trust, unless
the said notes be paid by the parties hereto of the first part in
the mean time, then at public or private sale to sell and dispose
of all and singular the premises aforesaid, or so much thereof as
may be necessary, or to raise the sum, required by mortgage (if
practicable), in due time, to provide for the payment of the said.
notes as they shall fall due, together with all proper charges, expenses, and commissions to be allowed to the said Charles Kerrison,
which commissions shall not exceed five per cent upon the amount
of sales or sums raised by mortgage. Or if he, the said Charles
Kerrison, should deem it best for the interest of all, then to sell and
dispose of the said premises, or any part of them, at any time after
the execution and delivery of these presents, as he may think
proper, for cash, or on such credit as' may enable him to meet the
said notes at maturity; and if he should so sell for cash, or for
cash and credit, before the maturity of the said notes, then, after
paying and retaining all proper charges, expenses, and commissions, to pay the clear residue of the cash so received by him to the
parties or holders of the said notes in average and proportion to the
several and respective amounts due upon the said notes, if the cash
be not sufficient to -pay tbe whole thereof, and in the same way to
pay the proceeds of sale of the whole property (less charges, commissions, and expenses) pro rata, if the whole be not sufficient to
pay the said notes in full at their maturity."
A. T. Stewart & Co. were named as creditors in the second
schedule; but they declined to accept under'the trust. Paton
& Co. were nanied in the first schedule, and Benkard & Hutton
in the second.
On Aug. 8, 1866, and before the execution of the deed of
trust, Stewart & Co. sued out a summons, entitled " Sixth Circuit of the United States of America, South Carolina District,"
and tested by the Chief Justice of the United States, at Greenville, South Carolina, commanding the marshal of the United
States for that district to summon Edwin L. Kerrison and Her-

158

KERRISON, ASSIGNEE, V. STEWART ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

man Leiding to appear before the clerk of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the aforesaid circuit and district, at the
rules to be holden at Charleston, in the aforesaid district, on the
The writ was
first Monday in September next, to answer, &c.
signed by the clerk of the Circuit Court for the district of
South Carolina, and sealed. At the day named, Kerrison &
Leiding, by their attorneys, entered their appearance to the
suit, before the clerk. Stewart & Co. then filed their declaration, containing several counts; to a part of which Kerrison &
Leiding demurred, and to others they pleaded specially. They
also pleaded the general issue. Stewart & Co. demurred to the
special pleas, and the cause was placed upon the docket of the
Circuit Court. At a regular term of the Circuit Court, holden
at Charleston in June and July, 1867, the demurrers to the declaration were overruled, and those to the special pleas sustained.
The cause then standing for trial upon the general issue, was
continued. In the following August, the docket of the Circuit
Court was taken to Greenville, at which place, on the first Monday in that month, a regular term of the District Court for
the Western District of South' Carolina was held, that court
having circuit-court jurisdiction and powers in that part of the
district of South Carolina embraced within the western district.
Before the term, the attorneys of Stewart & Co. notified the
attorneys of Kerrison & Leiding that they should insist upon
the trial of the cause at that term and place. Accordingly, the
parties appeared, and upon the regular call of the docket a trial
was had. The case was argued by counsel on both sides, without
objection to the jurisdiction. A verdict having been rendered
by the jury in favor of Stewart & Co., judgment was in due form
entered thereon, Sept. 24,1868. Execution was issued upon the
judgment, and returned nulla bona; whereupon Stewart & Co.
filed their bill in equity in the Court of Common Pleas for the
county of Charleston, a State court of South Carolina, against
Edwin L. Kerrison, Herman Leiding, Charles Kerrison, Paton
& Co., and Hutton (the last two as representative creditors),
praying that the deed of trust to Charles Kerrison might be
adjudged void as to them, and that the property covered by it
might be subjected to the payment of their judgment. The
Klerrisons and Leiding appeared and defended the suit. Publi-

Oct. 1876.]

KERRisoN, ASSIGNEE,

V.

STEWART

ET

AL.

159

cation was made to bring in Paton & Co. and Hutton, who were
non-residents of the State; but they did not appear, or make
defence. The Court of C6mmon Pleas, June. 22, 1870, after
hearing, adjudged the deed to be void as to Stewart & Co.
From this decree the Kerrisons and Leiding appealed to the
Supreme Court df 'the State, where it was affirmed, March 1,
1872.
Kerrison & Leiding Wvere adjudged bankrupts upon their own
petition, April 6, 1872, and afterwards Charles Kerrison was
duly appointed and qualified as their assignee. This bill was
filed by him, as such assignee, in the Circuit Court for the district of South Carolina, against Stewart & Co., and the creditors provided for in the trust' deed, to adjust the liens upon the
property, with a view to a sale and distribution of the proceeds
under the direction of the court. Stewart & Co. answered,
claiming a prior lien under the operation of their judgment and
the decree of the State court in their favor; and they insist
that the creditors are bound by that decree. The creditors answered, alleging that the judgment in favor of Stewart & Co.
was void for want of jurisdiction in the court in which it was
rendered; or, if not void, that it is invalid as to them, by reason of certain irregularities in the proceedings previous to and
at the time of its rendition, and that, as they were not parties to the suit in the State court, they are not bound by the
decree.
The Circuit Court sustained the prior lien of Stewart & Co.,
and decreed accordingly. From this decree the creditors and
the assignee in bankruptcy appeal to this court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Edward McCrady,
Jr., for the appellant, and by 11r. Samuel Lord, Jr., for the
appellees.
MR. CHF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Th4 first question to be considered in this case is, whether
the creditors of Kerrison & Leiding, who claim the benefit of
the trust created by the deed to Charles Kerrison, are concluded by the decree against him in the State court. If they
are, the decree of the Circuit Court must be affirmed.

160

KERRISoN, ASSIGNEE, V. ST19WART ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

It cannot be doubted, that,iunder some circumstances, a trustee may represent his beneficiai ies in all things relating to their
common interest in the trust property. Ie niay be invested
with such powers and subjected to such obligations that those
for whom he holds will be bound by what is done against him,
as well as by what is done byhim. The difficulty lies in ascertaining whether he occupies such a position, not in determining
its effect if he does. If he has been made such a representative, it is well settled that his beneficiaries are not necessary
parties to a suit by him against a stranger to enforce the trust
(Shaw v. Norfolk Co. B. B. Co., 5 Gray, 171; Bifield v. Taylor, 1 Beat. 91; Campbell v. K.B. Co., 1 Woods, 376; Ashton
v. Atlantic Bank, 3 Allen, 220) ;.:or to one by a stranger against
him to defeat it in whole or in part. Rogers v. Rogers,
3 Paige, 379; Wakeman v. Grover, 4 id. 34; Winslow v. H.
R.. B. K. Co., 4 Minn. 317; Campbell v. Watson, 8 Ohio,
500. In such cases, the trustee is in court for and on behalf of
the beneficiaries ;-and they, though not parties, are bound by
the judgment, unless it is impeached for fraud or collusion
between him and the adverse party.
The pri ,ple which underlies this rule has always been
applied in pr6ceedings r ating to railway mortgages, where a
trustee holds the security for the benefit of bondholders. It is
not, as seems to t': suppoaed by the counsel for the appellants,
a new principle developed by the necessities of that class of
cases, but an old rone, long in use under analogous circumstances, and found to be well adapted to the protection of the
rights of those interested- in -such securities, without subjectling
litigants to unnecessary inconvenience.
Undoubtedly cases may arise in -which it would be prcper to
have before the court the beneficiaries themselves, or some one
other than the trustee to represent theii interests. They then
become proper parties, and may be brought in or not, as the
court in the exercise of its judicial discretion may determine.
But this was very clearly not a case in which such' action was
required; and so all the parties evidently thought, while the litigation was progressing. The trustee, as well as Kerrison &
Leiding, appeared, and vigorously resisted the decree asked for.
The report of the case in 3 Rich. (S. C.) rw. s. 266i to which we

Oct. 1876.]

KERRISON, ASSIGNEE, V. STEWART ET AL.

161

have been referred, shows that they were represented by the
same counsel who appear here for the creditors, that the argument was full, and the judgment carefully considered. In addition to this, Paton & Co. and Hutton, who .are among the
creditors now resisting the decree, were named as parties to the
suit, and might have appeared to.defend, if they had been so
inclined. They seem, however, to have been then content to
leave their interests in the hands of the trustee, who certainly
could present their defence if he would, and against whom no
charge of neglect even is now made.
It remains to determine whether Charles Kerrison was authorized to represent the creditors in proceedings against him
to defeat the title he held for their security. This depends
upon the intention of the parties, as expressed in the deed creating the trust and making him the trustee. Looking to that,
we find that he was the." approved trustee," provided for in
the arrangement between Kerrison & Leiding and the majority
of their creditors, which was the foundation of the trust. He
was to "hold the premises" as security for the scheduled creditors who had already accepted the terms proposed, and also for
such of certain other creditors named in a second schedule as
should thereafter accept. If the debts so secured were not paid
by Kerrison & Leiding, it was made his duty to provide the
means for their payment, as well as the payment of all proper
charges and expenses, either by a public or private sale of the
property, or by mortgage, if practicable. If he should deem it
best for the interest of all, he was authorized to sell the whole
or any part of the property at any time for cash, or on such
credit as would enable him to meet the debts at maturity; but
if he did sell before maturity, the cash received, after deducting
all proper charges, &c., was to be divided amongst the creditors
in proportion to the amounts due them respectively.
From this it appears that he was not only invested with the
legal title to the property, but that all parties relied upon his
judgment and discretion for the protection of their respective
interests. A clear intent is manifested of relieving the creditors from the necessity of looking personally to the conversion
of the securities, or to the preservation of the trust. While
the trustee is nowhere in express terms invested with the
VOL. III.

11

162

KERRISON, ASSIGNEE, v. STEWART ET AL.

[Sap. Ct.

power to give receipts for purchase-money upon sales made, it
is perfectly apparent that such must have been the intention
of the parties. The wide range of discretion allowed him in
making the security available for the payment of the debts is
entirely inconsistent with the idea that purchasers or mortgagees must look to the application of their moneys after payment actually made .to him. The creditors 8annot interfere
with his discretion in making sales, so long as he keeps within
the general scope of his powers; neither can they prescribe the
terms upon which he shall sell. In all these particulars he has
been authorized to act in such manner as he shall deem best
for the interests of both parties, debtors as well as creditors.
The debtors rely upon his judgment to avoid unnecessary sacrifice ; and the creditors must be satisfied, if, at the proper time,
he is found to have done all that could reasonably be required
of him to subject the securities to the payment of their several
demands.
With these facts before us, it is impossible to come to any
other conclusion than that, as to strangers, he did represent the
trust and its property. Purchasers must go to him to make
their purchases, and adverse claimants may properly look to
him as the party against whom alone they are called upon to
assert their rights. If the creditors, mindful of their interests,
are dissatisfied with the manner in which he represents them
in suits that are pending, they may, under proper circumstances, intervene, and ask to be made parties, so as to speak
for themselves; but their adversary need not go after them,
except under the direction of the court.
There is no need of inquiring whether this was a case in
which one of the creditors might be broughtin and made to
represent all; for the trustee is himself the chosen representative of all, and whatever binds him must bind them.
It follows that the creditors are concluded by the decree of
the State court; and that necessarily disposes of this case, without further inquiry as to the other important questions argued
before us. The object of the suit in that court was to avoid
the deed to Charles Kerrison, as against the judgment of Stewart & Co.; and the decree was in accordance with the prayer
of the bill. The validity of the judgment 'was necessarily

Oct. 1876.]

TILTON ET AL. V. COFIELD ET AL.

involved in the suit; and the decree, as rendered, could not
have been given except by establishing it. This is expressly
admitted by the creditors in their answer to this bill; for they
say, "That the said decrees were given upon the allegation of
the bill of complaint of the said A. T. Stewart & Co., among.
which was the material allegation, without which his said complaint could not have been sustained, that they, the said A. T.
Stewart & Co., had recovered, and at the time of their bill
filed had, a judgment in this honorable court, upon which they
had sued .out an execution of fierifacias," &c.
Decree affirmed.

TiLTON ET AL. V.

COFEIEL

ET AL.

1. Where no local statute or rule. of local law is involved, the power to amend is
the same in attachment suits as in others.
2. A court of equity cannot act as a court of review, and correct errors of a
court of law, nor can it, in the absence of fraud, collaterally question the
conclusiveness of a judgment at law.
3. A purchaser of property pendente lite is as conclusively bound by the results of
the litigation as if he had from the outset been a party thereto.

APPEAL from'the Supreme Court of the Territory of Colorado.
Argued by Mr. George T. Curtisand Hr. George H. WTilliams
for the appellants, and submitted on pripted arguments by Mr.
Amos Steck for the appellees.

delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 28th of August, 1865, the appellants sued out of the
District Court of Arapaho County, Col., a writ of attachment
against the property of Judson H. Dudley and Thomas P. Ames,
for the sum of $2,591.44. The indebtedness was stated in the
affidavit to be upon an account for goods' sold and, delivered.
On the same day, the writ was served by attaching the real
estate in controversy. A declaration was duly filed. The
damages were laid at $3,000. On the 27th of January, 1865,
judgment was rendered for $2,591.44, and costs. This judgment
was reversed by the Supreme Court of the Territory on the 10th
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNFE

