COHN V.

UNITED' STATES CORST CO.

[Sup. Ct.

a maritime lien. Doubt upon that subject cannot be entertained;
but the recent decision of the court holds that such a lien does
not arise in a contract for repairs and supplies to a vessel in her
home port, and, if not, then it follows that in respect to such
contracts it is competent for the states, under the prior decisions
of the court, to create such liens as their legislatures may deem
just and expedient, not amounting to a regulation of commerce,
and to enact reasonable rules and regulations prescribing the
mode of their enforcement. The Belfast, 6 Wall. 645; The
Moses Taylor, 4 id. 427; Hine v. Trevor, id. 569.
Contract9 for ship-building are held not to be maritime contracts, and, of course, they fall within the same category; but in
all cases where a maritime lien arises, the original jurisdiction
to enforce .he same by a proceeding in rem is exclusive in the
district courts sitting in admiralty.
Costs cannot properly be taxed to the assignee before he
be.came a party to the suit. It was the assignee -that removed
the cause here, and of course he is liable for the costs in this
court. Bead v. Waterhouse, 12 Abb. Pr. N. s. 255; s. c.
52 N. Y. 588; 1olland v. Seaver, 1 Fost. 387; Penniman v.
Norton, I-Barb. Ch. 248; Smith v. Gordon, 6 Law Rep. 314.
Judgment affirmed with costs in this court.

Comr v. UNITED STATES CORSET Co-IA.,',Y.
1. To defeat a party suing for an infringement of letters-patent, it is sufficient to
plead and prove that prior to his supposed invention or diseovery the thing
patented to him had been patented, or adequately described in some printed
publication. A sufficiently certain and clear description of the thing patented is required, not of the steps necessarily antecedent to its production.
2. Letters-patent No. 137,893, issued April 15, 1873, to IMoritz Cohn, for an improvement in corsets, are invalid, the invention claimed by him having been
clearly anticipated and described in the English provisional specification of
John Henry Johnson, deposited in the Patent Office Jan. 20, 1854, and officially published in England in that year.

Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This was a suit for an infringement of the complainant's letters-patent, which are as follows :-

Oct. 1876.]

COHN V. UNITED STATES CORSET

C0.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

"To all to whom these presents shall come:
"Whereas, Moritz Cohn, of New York, N. Y., has presented to
the Commissioner of Patents a petition praying for the grant of letters-patent for an alleged new and useful improvement in corsets,
a description of which invention is contained in the specification, of
which a copy is hereunto annexed and made a part hereof, and has
complied with the various requirements of law in such cases made
and provided; and,
"Whereas, upon due examination made, said claimant is adjudged to be justly entitled to a patent under the law:
"Now, therefore, these letters-patent are to grant unto the said
Moritz Cohn, his heirs or assigns, for the term of seventeen years
from the fifteenth day of April, 1873, the exclusive right to make,
use, and vend the said -invention throughout the United States and
the Territories thereof.
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused
the seal of the Patent Office to be affixed, at the city of Washington, this fifteenth day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy-three, and of the Independence of
the United States of America the ninety-seventh.
"Countersigned,
"B. R. CoWEN,
"Acting Secretary of the Interior.

[L. s.]

"M. D. LEGGETT,
" Commissioner of Patents."
UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.

Improvement in Corsets.
"Specification forming part of letters-patent No. 137,893, dated
April 15, 1873 ; application filed JaH. 30, 1873.
"To all whom it may concern:
"Be it known that I, Moritz Cohn, of. New York City, in the
State of New York, have invented certain new and useful improvements in corsets; and I do hereby declare that the following is a
full and exact description thereof, reference being had to the accompanying drawing making part of this application : "Previous to my invention, it has been customary, in the manufacture of corsets, to weave the material with pocket-like openings
or passages running through from edge to edge, or all stopped and
finished off at a uniform distance from the edge, and adapted to
receive the bones, which are inserted to stay the woven fabric, and

COHN V. UNITED STATES CORSET CO.

[Stip. Ct.

which serve as braces to give shape to and support the figure of the
wearer. This method of manufacturing the corsets necessarily involves a great deal of hand labor, and, consequently, expense, in
stitching up the ends where they are woven with pockets running
through from edge to edge to hold the bones in place, or else the
upper ends of the bones are necessarily all located at a uniform distance from the edge, resulting in a less perfectly shaped corset than
is produced by following out my invention.
"I propose, by my invention, to overcome the objections just
named, and produce a corset in which the location or position of
the bones endwise shall be predetermined with the accuracy of
the Jacquard in the process of weaving th corset stuff or material,
while I at the same time effect a great saving of labor and expense,
and give a more perfect shape. MNy invention has for its main
object, therefore, not only the production of a better article, but
also a reduction in the cost of manufacture; and, to these ends, my
invention consists in having the pocket-like openings or passages
into which the bones are put closed up neat one end, at that point
at which it is designed to have the end of each bone located, as will
be hereinafter more fully set forth.
"To enable those skilled in the art to make and perfectly understand my invention, I will proceed to more fully describe it, referring by letters to the accompanying drawing, in which, for the
purpose of illustration, I have represented two corsets, one made
according to the mode of manufacture heretofore most generally
practised, the other according to my new method.
" It will be seen, by reference to Figures 1 and 2, that the
bones, a, are held or secured in place endwise in the pockets, b,
of the corset material, C,by stitching, e, which is done after the
insertion of the bone., and retains the bone endwise by closing up
the passage-way or pocket inwhich it is located. This is in accordance with or illustrates the mode of manufacture originally practised, and only departed from prior to my invention, as heretofore
explained.
"At Figures 3, 4, and 5 is illustrated, in elevation and longitudinal and cross sections, a corset made according to my improved
plan.
"In these figures, A is the woven fabric of the corset, which, in
lieu of being made with pocket-like openings or passages running
through from edge to edge, or up to a uniform distance from the
edge, I propose to have woven with pockets or passages, which
extend from one e.dge of the fabric toward the other, but stop short

Oct. 1876.]

COHN V. UNITED

STATES

CORSET Co.

of the latter at such point or' locality as is predetermined for the
location of the end of each bone, according to the design or shape
to be given to the corset, as shown. The fabric is woven with the
pockets extending, as seen, from one edge, B, of the fabric to the
points, b, c, d, &c., and from these points out to the edge, F,
the fabric is woven solid or without any passages. ff represent
the bones, which are made of the proper length, and are inserted
from the edge, B, or at the open ends of the pockets. After their
insertion, the bones are pushed "home" to the bottom of their
respective pockets, when the mouths or open ends of the said pockets are closed up by the stitching and binding of the edge, B, of
the corset, and the perfect retention of the bones thus effected.
"1It will be understood, that, by forming the corset, as described,
with pockets- closed at one end, and weaving in such pockets of
varying lengths, I am enabled to determine, in the manufacture
of the corset-fabric, the precise points to which the subsequently
inserted bones shall extend, and thus pattern any number of corsets
exactly alike, and to the most desirable model.
"Corsets made according to my improved plan, it will be seen,
can be made to a perfect and regular pattern, will be more desirable in appearance, and can be produced at less cost than those made
according to the mode of manufacture practised previous to my
invention.
"I am aware of, and do not claim, a woven corset with the pockets stopped and finished off at a uniform distance from the edge;
I am also aware of, and do not claim, a hand-made corset with
pockets of varying lengths stitched on ; but what I do claim as
new, and desire to secure by letters-patent, is"A corset having the pockets for the reception of the bones
formed in the weaving, and varying in length relatively to each
other; as desired, substantially in the manner and for the purpose
set forth."
The defendants, among other defences, set up that the letterspatent granted to the complainant were anticipated by the
English provisional specification -left by John Henry Johnson,
at the office of the Commissioner of Patents, with his petition,
on 20th January, 1854, viz. "I., J. H. Johnson, of 47 Lincoln's Inn Fields, in county of Middlesex, and of Glasgow, North Britain, gentleman, do hereby declare
the nature of said invention for improvements in the manufac-"
VOL. Ill.

24

COHN V. UNITED STATES CORSET CO.

[Sup. Ct.

-eof stays or corsets, communicated to me by Adolphe George
'eresine, of Paris, in empire of France, manufacturer, to be as
follows:
"This invention relates to the manufacture of what are known
as woven corsets, and consists in the employment of the jacquards
in the loom, one of which effects the shape or contour of the corset,
and the other the formation of the double portions of slots for the
introduction of the whalebones.
"These slots or double portions are made simultaneously with
the single parts of the corset; and, in place of being terminated in
a point, they are finished square off, and at any required length in
the corset, instead of always running the entire length, as is usually
the case in wbven corsets.
"When the corset is taken from the loom, the whalebones are
inserted into these cases, and the borders are formed, thus completing the aiticle, which contains all the elegance and graceful contour
of sewn corsets made by manual labor.
The court below, upon a final hearing, dismissed the bill;
whereupon the complainant appealed to this court.
Argued by Mlr. Benjamin P. Thurston fori
the appellant, an'd
Mr. George G-ifford for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE. STLRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
A careful examination of the evidence in this case has convinced us that the invention claimed and patented to the plaintiff was anticipated and described in the English provisional
specification of John Henry Johnson, left in the office of the
Commissioner of Patents on the "20th of January, A.D. 1854.
That specification was printed and published in England officially in 19 5 4 , and it is contained in volume 2d of a printed
publication circulated in this country as early as the year 1856.
It is, therefore, fatal to the validity of the plaintiff's patent if,
in fact, it does describe sufficiently the manufacture described
and claimed in his specificatibn.
It must. be admitted that,
unless the earlier printed and published description does exhibit the later patented invention in such a full and intelligible
manner as to enable persons skilled in the art to which the invention is related to comprehend it without assistance from
the patent, or to make it, or repeat the process claimed, it is
insufficient to invalidate the patent. Keeping this principle in

Oct. 1876.]

COHN V. UNITED STATES CORSET CO.

view, we proceed to compare the plaintiff's invention with the
antecedent Johnson specification. In order to do this, a clear
understanding of the patent and of the invention the plaintiff
claims to have made is indispensable. His application at the
Patent Office was made on the 30th of January, 1873. In it
he claimed to have invented "a new and useful improvement
in corsets." After reciting that previous to his invention it
had been customary in the manufacture of corsets to weave the
material with pocket-like openings or passages running from
edge to edge, and adapted to receive the bones which are inserted to stay the woven fabric, and which serve as braces to
give shape to and support the figure of the wearer, but that it
had been necessa.r, after the insertion of the bones into said
pocket-like passages, to secure each one endwise by sewing, he
proceeded to mention objections to that mode of making a
corset. He specified two only. The first was, that it involved
much hand labor and consequent expense in sewing in the
bones, or securing them endwise in the woven passages; and
the second was, that the arrangement or placement of the bonesin the passages had to be determined by hand manipulation,
and that it was, therefore, variable and irregular, such as frequently to give to the corset an undesirable shape or appearance near its upper edge. These objections he proposed to
remove, and to produce a corset in which the location or position endwise of the bones shall be predetermined with the accuracy of the jacquard, in the process of weaving the corset-stuffs,
or material, thereby effecting the saving of labor and expense
in the manufacture. He, therefore, declared his invention to
consist in having the pocket-like openings or passages into
which the bones are put closed up near one end, and at that
point at which it is designed to have the end of each bone
located. The claim then made was as follows: "A corset
woven with the pockets for the bones closed at one end,
substantially as and for the purpose set forth." It is very
evident, that, when this application was presented to the Commissioner of Patents, the only invention the applicant supposed
he had made, and the only one claimed, was a corset the bone
pockets in-which had been closed at one end in the weaving.
A patent for it was refused, for the reason assigned, that such a

• COHN V. UNITED STATES CORSET CO.

[Sup. Or.

corset was described in. the printed publication of Johnson's
The plaintiff then amended his application,
specification.
manifestly to set forth an invention differing in some particulars from that of Johnson. " The amendment, however, proved
insufficient, and a second rejection followed. Other amendments were then made, until his present patent was at last
granted, dated April 15, 1873. In the specification which accompanies it the patentee admits, what he admitted at first, that
prior to his in4 .ention it had been customary in the manufacture
of corsets to weave the material with pocket-like openings or
passages runing through from edge to edge; and he makes the
further admission, that it had been customary to weave the
material with such passages all stopped and finished off at
uniform distances from the edge. .He, therefore, disclaims "a
woven corset with the pockets stopped and finished off at a
uniiform distance from the edges," and disclaims also "a handmade corset with-pockets of varying lengths stitched on; " and
his claim is, "a corset having the pockets for the reception of
the bones formed in the weaving, and varying in length relatively to each other as desired, substantially in the manner and
for the purposes set. forth." The specification nowhere sets
forth the manner in which the alleged improvements in the
corsets are produced, unless it be by reference to a jacquard in
the loom. No process is described. None is patented. The
claim is for a manufacture, not for a mode of producing it. Its
peculiarities, as described, are that the pockets for the reception of the bones are formed in the weaving, rather than by
hand, and that they are of varying lengths relatively to each
other; that is, that the pockets differ in length from other
pockets in the same corset, as desired. There are no other
particulars mentioned descriptive of the patented improvement,
unless they are that the weaving or variations in the length of
the pockets are to be in the manner and for the purpose set
forth in the specification. Referring to that, the purpose
avowed is the production of a better-shaped corset at less expense; and the manner of effecting this is by substituting
weaving for stitching, in closing the pockets at desired or predetermined distances from the edge. Now, in view of the
patentee's disclaimers, stopping off the passages or pockets in

Oct. 1876.]

COHN V.

UNITED STATES CORSET CO.

the weaving is not covered by the patent. It is admitted that
had been done before, and no claim is made for it. All that is
left, then, is, that the woven and closed pockets in the corset
vary in length. No rule is stated for the variation. It is not
stated which are comparatively short and which long, or how
much shorter some are than others, or how near any or all of
them come to the edge. The demands of the claim in this
respect are met, if some of the pockets desired to be longer than
others are thus made. But the claim must be further limited
in view of the state of the aft when the application for the
patent was made. The manufacture of hand-made and woven
corsets is an art long known, - known long before the Johnson
improvement. Those made by hand had gores inserted to give
enlarged space for the breasts of the wearer, and also gores or
gussets at the lower part to give space for the hips. In woven
corsets these enlargements, equivalent to gussets, were formed
by the jacquard loom. For more than twenty years it has
been customary to weave in these gussets bone-pockets stopped
off or closed in the weaving at various distances from the edge
of the corset. Those extending upward from the.lower edges
were stopped off at varying heights, and those extending from
the upper edge downward over the breast were woven close at
their lower extremities at unequal distances from the top. It
is true, that, where the stoppage was effected in weaving, the
pockets in the gussets were closed pointedly, and unavoidably
so, by the necessary contraction of the threads of the weft. But
whether the-stoppage was pointed, or blunt, or square, is unimportant. It is not claimed as a feature of the plaintiff's invention. His claim, then, cannot refer to the gusset pockets. The
well-known state of the art, existing before even the Johnson
description, requires its limitation. It must refer exclusively
to the pockets under the arms of the wearer, or on the back, or
in front of the body. It claims weaving them of various
lengths when closed. That is all.
Having thus analyzed the plaintiff's alleged invention, and
ascertained what it is; we are prepared to examine the Johnson
provisional specification, and inquire whether it described, with
sufficient 'certainty and clearness a corset having the improvement claimed by the plaintiff. We quote at length the entire

COHN v. UNITED STATES CoRsET Co-

. [Sup. Ct.

description. Johnson, having declared the nature of the invention for which he sought a patent to be "improvements in
the manufacture of stays or corsets," communicafed to him by
Adolphe Georges Geresme, 'of Paris, in the empire of France,
described it as follows: "This invention relates to the manufacture of what are known as woven corsets, and consists in the
employment of the jacquards in the loom, one of which effects
the shape or contour of the corset, and the other the formation
of the double portions of slots for the introduction of the whalebones. These-slots or -double portions are made simultaneously
with the single part of the corset,- and, in place of being .terminated in a point, they- are finished square off, and at any
required length in the corset, instead of always running the
entire length,-as.is usually the case in woven corsets. When
the corsei is taken from the loom, the whalebones are inserted
into these cases, and the borders are formed, thus completing
the article, -which contains all the elegance and graceful contour
of sewn corsets made by manual labor."
Undeniably this is a description of woven corsets, woven by
the Use of the jacquards in the loom, wo-Ven with slots or passages for the bones, made simultaneously with the other parts
of the corsets, and requiring nothing to be done to them after
their removal from the loom, except the insertion of the bones
and the formation of the borders. It is also plainly a description of corsets in which the passages for the bones, called the
double portions or slots, are finished; that is, stopped off in the
weaving. That the expression "finished off square " means
closed or stopped off square, is manifest, for several reasons. It
is used to distinguish the manufacture from one in which the
termination of the slots is pointed, as is always the case with
the slots in the gussets, and necessarily so. The pointed terminations are closures, and the finished square terminations are
only a different mode of closure. The idea -in Johnson's mind
was, therefore, that of ending, or termination by shutting up,
or closing squarely, instead of enclosing pointedly. And it was
the slot or passage that -was to be finished off, and not merely
the upper portion of .the slot, or one of its sides. A second reason for concluding that the specification describes closed slots
or passages is found in the concluding paragraph, which states,

Oct. 1876.]

CORN

V. UNITED STATES CORSET CO.

that, when the corsets are taken from the loom, all that remains
to be done to complete them is to insert the bones into these
"cases," and form the borders. Thus, it is said, they are completed, "containing all the elegance and graceful contour of
sewn corsets made by manual labor." There is not an intimation that the needle is to be applied after removal from the
loom. This portion of the description is utterly inconsistent
with the idea that the pockets are not closed by the weaving.
If they are not, more is required to complete the corsets after
the loom has done its work than forming the borders and
inserting the bones. The pockets must be closed by stitching
before they are ready for the bones. Besides, those parts of
the corset which in one part of the' specification are denominated "double portions of slots," and in another, " slots, or
double portions" finished square off, are also called "cases,"
a word that expresses the idea of enclosure, and which is inapplicable to open.passages. For these reasons, we cannot doubt
that the meaning of the specification is, that the passages, slots,
double portions, cases, pockets, by whatever name they are
called, are to be closed in the weaving. And the plaintiff so
understood it when he applied for his patent. In view of the
published description to which his attention was called, he disclaimed stopping and finishing off the pockets in the weaving,
and stated in his amended specification that he was aware of
corsets thus made, and that it had been customary in the manufacture to weave the material with pocket-like passages, all
stopped and finished off at uniform distances-from the edge, and
adapted to receive the bones.
It is manifest, then, that there is nothing in the plaintiff's
patent which was not described in the Johnson specification,
unless it be that the closed slots or cases mentioned in the
former are required to be woven of varying length. A variation
in the length of the pockets relatively to each other, as desired, is,
as we have seen, the sole distinctive feature of the plaintiff's
invention. But it was well known before Johnson filed his
specification that thd bone-pockets of a Porset must vary in
length. They were made to vary in hand-made corsets, and in
woven on6s by sewing. In all corsets, whether hand-made or
woven, the pockets under the arms were made shorter, and

37.6 '

COHN v. UNITED STATES CORSET Co.

[Sup. Ct.

those at the back and in front were made longer, in order to fit
'the wearer and preserve a graceful shape at the top. Every
person skilled in corset making knew the necessity of such
varintion. In Johnson's description, it was asserted that the
shape or contour of his corset was formed in the weaving; so
far, therefore, as that was effected by the relative length of the
pockets, it was dependent upon the loom. The description left
to the manufacturer to determine what should be the length of
each pocket, 'h order to secure the elegance and graceful contour of sewn Corsets ; -in other words, to determine before the
weaving where the double portions or slots should be stopped
off. Johnsoh knew - having before hin the state of the art
at the time - that pockets of uniform length would not adapt
the corset to fit the wearer, and would not be consistent with
elegance of shape. And there is not a word in his description
that intimates the pockets are to be stopped off or closed at
uniform distances from the edge or without variation in length.
The contrary idea is manifest. It is said, they are to be finished (closed) at any required length.. Required length'?
Required by whom, and for what? Plainly by the manufacturer; and that they. may have' all the elegance and graceful
contour of sewn corsets made by manual labor, and also that
they may fit the wearer. Such a requirement could be met
only by pockets of different lengths in the same corset. And
if they were stopped wherever required, and it was required
that they should stop off at varying distances from the edges of
the corset, the description pointed'out a corset thus made. It
is true, no particular length of the different pockets was specified, nor was any proportion mentioned which- one pocket
should bear in length to another. That was left to the manufacturer, as it is to the manufacturer of hand-made corsets, and
as it is in the 'plaintiff's specification. He does not say how
near to the upper edges of .his corset the base of the closed
pockets comes,, nor what proportion in length one bears to the
others. He simply describes them as varying in length rela
'tively 'to each other, as desired. This is certainly not more
definite than Johnson's description. In both, the variatiofis in
length aiid'their -relative proportions are left to the 'judgment
and tdste of the corset-maker. It is impossible, therefore to

Oct. 1876.]

COHN V., UNITED STATES CORSET CO.

find any thing in the plaintiff's patent which was not with
equal definiteness and perspicuity described in the printed publication (Johnson's specification), made nineteen years before
the patent was granted.
It is quite immaterial, even if it be a fact, that the Johnson specification is insufficient to teach a manufacturer how to
make the patented corset. It is enough if it sufficiently
describes the corset itself. Neither it nor the plaintiff's specification exhibits the process of making. Neither of them set up
a claim for a process. The plaintiff claims a manufacture, not
a mode of making it; and the important inquiry, therefore, is,
whether the prior publication described the article. To defeat
a party suing for an infringement, it is sufficient to plead and
prove that the thing patented to him had been patented or
described in some printed publication prior to his supposed
invention or discovery; thereof. Rev. Stat., sect. 4920. What
is required is a description of the thing "patentea, not of, the
steps necessarily aditecedent to its production. But The -evidence shows that the. Jolison specification, in connection with
the known state of the art it the time when it was filed and
published, was sufficient to enable one skilled in the art of corset-making and in the use-of the jacquard to make the patenteaL
corset. It is very clearly proved that if gave sufficient instruction, aud that it needed'no addition to ftirnish full information
to a corset-weaver how to weave a corset with the use of the
jacquard- and stop off all the bone-pockets in the weaving aL
the right places. It is also proved that the corset patehted to
the plaintiff-can be made as easily by the use of two jacquards,
as described by Johnson, as by the use of one; . and it was so
made during the trial of the present case. It is, however,
unnecessary to consider the possibilities of two jacquards in
operation at the same time in one loom. It could only be material if the plaintiff was claiming a process for making a corset.
It is enough for this case that the invention patented to the
plaintiff was clearly described in 1854, in the printed publication of the Johnson (Geresme) provisional specification. Tke
patent is, therefore, invalid, and lien(e the' decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill must be affirifed.
Decree affirmed.

COHN V. UNITED STATES CORSET Co.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD dissenting.
Inventors are required, before they receive a patent, to
deliver a written description of their inventions, and of the
process of making, constiueting, and using the same, "in such
full, .clear, concise, and exact terms," as to enable persons
skilled in the art or science to make, construct, and use the
same.
Power to grant letters-patent is vested in the commissioner;
but when the power is exercised and the patent has been duly
granted, it is of itself primafacie evidence that the patentee is
the original and first inventor of that which is therein described
and secured to him as his invention.
Proofs are admissible to overcome that presumption ; but it
is well-settled law that patented inventions cannot be superseded by'the mere introduction of a foreign publication of the
kind, though of a prior date, unless the description and drawings contain and exhibit a substantial representation of the
patented improvement, "in such full, clear, concise, and exact
terms," as to enable any person skilled in the art or science to
which it appertains, to make, construct, and use the invention
to the same practical extent as he would be enabled to do if the
information was derived from a prior patent. Applicants for a
patent are as much required to describe the manner and process
of making, constructing, and using the invention, as they are
to file in the Patent Office a written description of the alleged
improvement; and both are expressly required to be in such
full, clear, concise, and exact terms, as to enable any person
skilled in the art or science to make,-construct, and use the
invention.
Nothing deserving the least consideration is exhibited in the
record to support the defence that the appellant is not the original and first inventor of the patented improvement, except the
Johnson specification, which, in my judgment, does not contain
or exhibit a substantial representation of the patented invention
in such full, clear, concise, and exact terms, as to enable even
an expert, -without previous experiments, to make, construct, or
practise the invention.
Instead of that, the provisional specification fails altogether
to describe the means or mode of operation by which the

Oct. 1876,]

DODGE V. FREEDMAN'S SAV.

& TRUST Co.

379

pockets of varying lengths are to be stopped or closed in the
process of weaving. Conclusive support to that proposition is
found in the fact that it became necessary for the infringers to
experiment for a long time before they could imitate the patented product.

DODGE ET AL. v. FREEDAAN'S SAVINGS AND TRUST

COMPANY.

1. Declarations made by the holder of a promissory note or of a chattel, while he
held it, are not admissible in evidence in a suit upon or in relation to it by
a subsequent owner.
2. The declarations of a party when in possession .of land -are, as against those
claiming under him, competent evidence to show the character of his possession, and the title by which he held it, but not to sustain or destroy the
record title.
3. In law, a person with whom a note is deposited for collection is the agent of
the holder, and not of the maker. The maker has no interest in it, except
to pay, the note. Failing to do this, he leaves it to be-dealt with as others
interested may choose.
4. Where a note, deposited in bank for collection by its owner, was paid by a
person not a party thereto, with the intention of having it remain as an
existing security, and tIe money so paid was received by the owner of the
note,-I eld, that such person thereby became the purchaser of the note,
the negotiability of which remilins after as before maturity, subject to the
equities between the parties.

from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The Freedman's Savings and Trust Company, on the seventeenth day of May, 1873, exhibited its bill of complaint in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, alleging that it
owned and held certain unpaid and overdue promissory notes
made by the defendant Dodge, and that certain real estate in
the city of Georgetown, which had been conveyed in trust to
the defendants Jones and Darneille, to secure the payment of
said notes. bad been unlawfully and fraudulently released from
the operation of the deed of trust, and had been conveyed by
defendant Dodge to the defendant Darneille, who had conveyed
it to the defendant Dunlop, in trust for the benefit of the wife
of the defendant Darneille.
The bill prays for the cancellation of the release, and also of
the other conveyances; for a sale of all the property covered
APPEAL

