TERRY V. ABRAHAM

E AL.

[Sup . Ct.

TERRY v. ABRAH~m ET AL.
1. 'There an appellant obtains an order of severance in the dourt below, and does
not make parties to his appeal some of the parties below who are interested
in maintaining the decree, he cannot ask its reversal here on any matter
which will injuriously affect their interests.
2. When an appellant seeks to reverse a decree because too large an allowance
was made to the appellees out of a fund in which he and they.were both
interested, lie will not be permitted to do so when lie has received allowances of the same kind, and his otherwise waived his right to make the
specific objection which lie raises for the first time here.

ArrPE&L from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Georgia.
The case was argued by Mr. H. Terry for the appellant, and
by Mr A. T Akerman for the appellees.,
MR. JUSTICE, MULER delivered the opinion of the court.
On the tvelfth day of July, 1869, Harvey Terry, the appellant, filed his bill in the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Georgia aginsst the M-Uerchants' and Planters' Bank and
Hiram Roberts. The bill purported to be brought in behalf of
plaintiff and all others in like condition with himself who would
unite and contribute to the. expenses of the proceeding. It sets
out. as the foundation of plaintiff's rights, that he is the owner
and holder of a considerable amount of the circulating notes of
the bank; that the bank, since 1866, has been: insolvent, and
refused to redeem its bills; and that, on the eighteenth day of
July of that year, it had made to Hiram Roberts, the other
defendant, a general assignment of its effects for the benefit of
its creditors. This assigmnent is set out in full as an exhibit to
the bill.
It is alleged that Roberts has wholly failed to execute the
trust; and the relief sought is, that a receiver may be appointed,
who shall take charge of the property so assigenied, and who shall
administer and close up the affairs of the trust, and distribute
the effects aniong the creditors, as they may be found justly.
entitled.
A receiver was appbinted in" accordance 'ith -the prayer of
the petition, with directions to take possession '9 f the assets of
the bank, and to collect its" debts; and a mas, -r was appointed

Oct. 1876.]

TERRY V. ABRAHAM ET AL.

to ascertain and report the names of all the creditors entitled
to share in the fund, and the amount to be distributed to each
of them.
It is on the exceptions taken by the appellant to this report
that the only questions arise which this court can notice. There
are seven of these exceptions, the second and third of which
alone relate to allowances made by the master to creditors,
represented by Stone and Akerman, as attorneys in the case.
The other exceptions relate to allowances in favor bf other
creditors, who are not parties to this appeal. The appellant,
in taking his appeal, expressly limited it to the creditors represented by Stone and Akerman, and procured an order of severance as to the others, and the allowance of the appeal as between
appellant and those parties alone. Conceding the appeal to be
good as to these parties, and the issues between them (which
is a little doubtful), it is very clear that no modification of the
decree can be had here to the prejudice of those who were parties below and are not parties here.
This principle disposes also of the alleged error of the court
in refusing to allow a reasonable compensation for services of
plaintiff's attorney, to be paid out of the general fund before
distribution. As appellant had instituted the suit, and caiTied
it on at his own expense, until he procured a decree for distribution of a large fund, in the benefit of which all the creditors
participated, we see no good reason why the fund thus realized
and distributed should not have been chargeable with the expense
incident to the proceeding.
But there may have been a good reason for it; and, if the
creditors who shared In the distributioir were here as parties,
they might be able tot sustain the action of the court below.
At all events, as no order on the subject could now be made
withoutlisturbing their ights under the decree,- and as appellant has- not thought proper to bing them here, the decree cannot be changed on that subject.
The third exception, which relates to .the parties represented
by Stoie and Akerman, questions an all'vance of interest on
their claims. The sufficieht lanswer- to this is, that appellant
claimed and received interest on his claims in precisely the same
manner, which made these parties equal in the matter, and

TERRY

v.

A'BRAHAM

ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

which estops appellant from -alleging the action of the court to
be error.
The second exception is founded on the allegation contained

-

in it, that the creditors represented by Stone and Akerman,
whose claims to the amount of $832,115.76 had been allowed,
had, after the assignment, collected from the stockholders of
the bank, by legal proceedings, the sum of $197,672 "in the
aggregate;" and he raises two points on this part of the master's
report: *1st, That these parties should have been allowed nothing at all out of the fund now in court. 2d, That they should
have only been permitted to share in the fund after 'll the
other- creditors had been made equal by receiving as much in
proportion as these had collected by law.
There are several reasons why these exceptions cannot be
sustained here. One of these is, that the sum mentioned'as
realized by the twenty-three creditors represented by Stone and
Akerman is stated in the aggregate; and there is no averment
of the amount received by each creditor, or that in point of fact
each one of the twenty-three received a part of this sum. It is
perfectly consistent with the language of the exception that one
or two or three of the claimants represented by these attorneys
received the whole amount mentioned.
Another objection is, that the record shows that appellant
himself had in like manner .proceeded at law, and had collected
a considerable sum, just in the same manner as these creditors
had; and if their action debarred them from any benefit of the
trust -funds, he was in like manner debarred, and has no-standing in.'court.
Again:. though the e=:=eption allegs that the money so made
by these creditors was realized out of tile rnpaid stock, by which
is probably meant that part of the stock subscribed fbr and not
paid in, the-record leaves it in doubt whether it was not collected of stockholders on' a~coumt of tht personal liability which
the statute imposed on the snarehold- outside of his liability to
pay on the stock actually subsci-ibed, -- ith a strong pobal-;lity
that the statutorT liability was the princinal source of the money
so collected.
We are -of opinion -that the assig-n-nt ciL not carry this
statutory liability to the assignee, and that .s the purpose of

Oct. 1876.]

-

SMITH, EXECUTOR,

V.

CHAPMAN, EXECUTOR.

41

this bill was to enforce the assignment, and nothing else, the
amount received from other sources had no other effect on the
rights of. creditors than to diminish the amount of their debts
on which the dividend was to be estimated.
A circumstance quite as strong against the appellant is, that,
though he had, as plaintiff, the control of the management of this
suit, he took no steps to have the unpaid stock collected, had no
order made for its payment by the shareholders, nor any directions to the receiver to enforce its payment. No other creditor
took any step in that direction. Neither the receiver, the other
creditors, nor the appellant, have in any manner, up to the argument in this court, looked to that source as part of the fmnd to
be distributed under this assignment.
Under all these circumstances, we hold, that, if any right to
collect this unpaid stock passed to the assignee, of which there
is great doubt, the parties to-this suit have waived and abandoned that right, and the appellant cannot now set it up to
reverse this decree.
-Decreeaffirmed.

SMIITH, EXECUTOR, v. CHAPMfAN, EXECUTOR.
In an action against an executor upon a contract of his testator, where a devastavit is not alleged and proved, a judgment de bonis propriis is erroneous.

ERROR, to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
-District of Minnesota.
The case was argued by Mr. WF. P. Clough for the plaintiff
in error, and by Mr. Thomas J. -Durantfor the defendant in
error.

MR.JUSTICE CLIFFORD 'delivered the opinion of the court.
Judgmentwas recovered in the Supreme Court of the State of
New York by George W. Chapman, executor of Eunice Chapman,
deceased, against John Gordon. then in-full life, since deceased,
in me sum of $4,759.80; and it appearing that the judgment was
unsatisfied and in full force, and that the judgment debtor had
deceased, the judgment creditor brought an action of debt on

