412

SAGE

ET AL. V. CENTRAL

R...

Co. ET AL.

[Sup

Ct.

from other crafts were also examined by the steamer; and they
all contradict the theory set up by the libellant, that there was
a calm which disqualified the sloop from adopting the proper
precaution to prevent a collision.
Conclusive evidence, if more be needed, is also found in the
injuries which the sloop caused to the steamer by the blow, to
show that the theory of the libellant as to the wind is incorrect.
That the sloop held her course across the channel has already
been shown, and it also appears that she struck the steamer on
her port side some forty feet from the stem, the two vessels
coming together nearly at right angles. Convincing proof is
exhibited to that effect; and it appears that it was the bowsprit
of the sloop that first struck thp port side of the steamer, and
the evidence shows that the force of the blow was such that it
broke a hole through the outside planking, which was three
inches thick, and also broke a hole through the inside planking,
which was also three inches thick, and broke through an oak
timber eight inches in diameter.
Viewed in the light of these facts and circumstances, we are
all of the opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court is correct, and that there is no error in the record.
-Decreeaffirmed.

SAGE _ET AL.

v.

CENTRAL

RAILROAD

CO3IPANY OF IOWA

ET AL.
1. To make a ner pro tunc order effectual for the purposes of a supersedeas, it
must appear that the delay was -he act of the court, and not of the parties.
and that injustice will not be done.
2. A motion to set aside a decree, made by persons not parties to the suit, but
who are permitted to intervene only for the purpose of an appeal from the
decree as briginally rendered, will not operate to suspend such decree.
3. Their separate appeal having been properly allowed and perfected, the case
is here to the extent necessary for the protection of their intereso.
4. A cause, involving private interests only, will not be advanced for a hearing
in preference to other suits on the docket.

1. To vacate a supersedeas-; 2. Dismiss the appeal.
Mr. 1B. L. Ashturst in support of the motions.
Mr. N. A. Cowdrey, contra.
M IO N,

Oct. 1876.]

SAGE ET AL. V. CENTRAL

R.R. Co.

Er AL.

418

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

The Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, trustee for the bondholders secured by a mortgage of the Central Railroad Company
of Iowa, whose claims amounted in the aggregate to $3,700,000,
exclusive of interest, commenced a suit in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Iowa, Oct. 14, 1874, to
foreclose the mortgage for the benefit of all parties interested
in the security.
This was done at the request of a large number of the bondholders, and after much consultation between them in regard to
their common interests. After the cause had been pending for
nearly a year, and at some time between Oct. 1 and Oct. 22,
1875, Russell Sage, F. Leake, James Buell, and Edwin Parsons,
presented a communication to the trustee, a copy of which is as
follows :the Farmers' Loan. and Trust Company, Trustee, &c., -First.JrortgageBondhdlders.
"GE NILEMEN, - We are informed by your counsel, Grant and
Smith, that they will ask the court, in the foreclosure 'suit now pending, to enter such decree as the majority 6f the bondholders desire.
Believing that some of the bondholders have other interests to serve
than to protect the first mortgage bondholders, and that large numbers of the bondholders, from want of proper information, have
been induced to sign various requests to the court for certain forms
of decree injurious to us as bondholders, and being your cestui que
trust to" the amount set opposite our names of the first mortgage
bonds, to secure the payment of which you hold the mortgage as
trustee for ourselves and others similarly situated, this is to notify
you of such interest on our part, and to request you to instruct your
counsel to procure the ordinary decree of foreclosure and sale; and,
failing to get this from the court, to take an appeal to the Supreme
Court of the United States.
"If, for any reason, you decline to give your counsel such instructions, please inform us, that we may become a party to said proceedings, and take such course as we may be advised in the matter. We
understood the trust-deed to require you to procure the ordinary
decree of foreclosure and sale. If the bondholders, or a majority
of them, request you to purchase the mortgaged premises, and to
form a new company', that it is competent for you to do so, uponsuch terms and conditions as a majority of the bondholders desire;
"To

414

SAGE ET AL. V. CENTRAL

R.R. Co.

ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

but, until you do so purchase, you are to do all you reasonably can
be expected to do to protect the minority as well as the majority of
your cestui que trust.
"Respectfully, your obedient servants,.
"RUSSELL SAGE, $100,000.

"F.

LEAKE,

"JAMES
"EDWIn

by Russell Sage, $25,000.

BUELL, $10,000.
PARSONS, $13,500.

"NEW YORK, Oct. 1, 1875."
A term of the court commenced Oct. 11, 1875; and on the
22d of that month, the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, the
Central Railroad Company of Iowa, and all the other defendants, together with committees of various bondholders, represented by their respective attorneys, appeared in court and
agreed to the form of a decree to be entered in the cause, the
same having beeh the result of consultation and compromise
among the parties in initerest. At the same time the Farmers'
Loan and Trust Company exhibited to the court the communication it had received from Sage and his associates, accompanied
by a statement that Buell had deposited with it as trustee
$10,000 of bonds secured by the mortgage, Leake, $25,000, and
Sage, $100,000, and that it was ready to execute any decree
which might be made by the, court under the circumstances.
The court thereupon, without considering the rights and
interests of the various parties, entered, Oct. 22, 1875, the
decree agreed upon, and then adjourned until some time in
January, 1876.
Down to this time neither Sage nor any of his associates had
asked to be made parties to the suit, or to be permitted to
intervene in any manner for the protection of their interests,
but, Dec. 16, 1875, Sage, Buell, and N. A. Cowdrey presented
to the circuit judge, at St. Paul, Minn., the Iowa Circuit Court
not being then in session, a petition, as follows: "Now comes the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, as trustee
in said cause for Russell Sage, James Buell, and N. A. Cowdrey, and
plaintiff in said cause, and prays of the court that an appeal may
be allowed to said plaintiff, and tenders to the court an appealbond, with a request that the same may operate as a supersedeas."
Signed, Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, by Grant and Smith,
solicitors.

Oct. 1876.]

SAGE ET AL. V. CENTRAL

R.R. Co.

ET AL.

415

Upon this petition, 'the circuit judge entered his order, as
follows: -

"In this case, an appea4 is asked by the complainant so far, and
only so far, as it affects the interests of Russell Sage, James Buell,
and N. A. Cowdrey.
"I deny the appeal prayed for, because,"1. The decree in question was entered by consent of all the
parties in interest.
(" The term at which this decree was rendered has not yet ended,
but stands adjourned until in January next; and the proper course
for the parties in whose behalf an appeal is sought is for them to
appear, and, if the decree is erroneously entered, or is improper,
to apply to be made parties, or to have the decree corrected, or a
new decree entered.)
"2. An appeal cannot be taken on behalf of certain bondholders,
not parties to the record, leaving ihe rest of the decree unappealed
fr om. As the trustees (complainants) do not ask for an appeal
from the whole decree, I need not consider when they would be
justified in a case where there are several millions of dollars bf
bondholders who acquiesce in the decree, to appeal at the instance
of three bondholders who only claim to hold bonds to the extent of
$200,000.
",3. If an appeal could be allowed, as asked for, the bond offered
is insufficient,. as to amount, to secure costs, damage, for delay, and
costs and interest on the appeal. The clerk will enter the above
order of record, denying the appeal prayed for.
" (Signed)
JOHN F. DiLLo, Circuit Audge.
"AT CHAMBERS, ST. PAUL, Dec. 16, 1875."
The court met pursuant to adjournment, and, Jan. 11, Sage,
Buell, and Cowdrey, claiming to be the owners of $200,000 of
the bonds secured by the mortgage, filed their petition for
leave to intervene in the suit as plaintiffs -or defendInts, to
the end that they might have opportunity to protect the in-.
terests they had in common with the other holders of bonds,
and with liberty to appeal to this court. Jan. 18, they filed a
motion to set aside the decree of Oct. 22.
On the next day, Jan. 14, the cause came on for hearing
upon the motion filed Jan. 18, the petition filed Jan. 11,
and the petition presented to the circuit judge Dec. 16, with
his order thereon. The motion to set aside the decree wa.

416

SAGE ET AL. V. CENTRAL R.R. CO. ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

denied, and as to the other petition the following order was
made:

-

"Upon consideration of the premises, it is now by the court
ordered, that Sage, Buell, and Cowdrey be, and they are hereby, permitted to become so far parties to the suit as to prosecute, if they
so elect, for the protection of their said several interests therein,
and in their own names, an appeal to the Supreme Court from the
decree entered herein on the twenty-second day of October, 1875;
and, if said Sage, Buell, and Cowdrey desire said appeal to operate
as a supersedeas,the bond for that purpose is fixed at the sum of
$1,000,000, to be given in thirty days from this date; and, if so
given, said appeal shall be regarded as taken and perfected on the
sixteenth day of December, 1875, the said parties having then applied
as aforesaid for said appeal, and having delayed the same until this
timer by order of the judge at chambers, as above shown; but if
said appeal is not to operate as a supersedeas, the bond is fixed at
the sum of $2,000."
No bond was executed under the authority of this order, and,
Feb. 16, 1876, a petition for the allowance of an appeal from
the orders and decrees of Oct. 22 and Jan. 14, to operate as a
8gupersedeas, was presented to Mr. Justice Miller, the justice
of this court assigned to the eighth circuit, in which the district
of Iowa is situated; and he allowed the appeal as prayed for,
and accepted a supersedeas bond in the sum of $20,000. In
due time the transcript of the record was filed in this court,
and the appeal docketed.
The Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, represented by a
joint committee of the bondholders, now move, 1. To vacate
the supersedeas; and, 2. To dismiss the appeal.
1. As to the supersedeas.
In Kitchen v. Jandolph, supra, 86, we held that it was not
within the power of a justice of this court to grant a supersedeas on a writ of error or upon an appeal, unless the writ
of error was sued out and served or the appeal taken within
sixty days, Sundays exclusive, after the rendition of the judgment or decree complained of.
The decree in this case was rendered Oct. 22, 1875. At that
time, the present appellants were not parties to the suit, and
consequently could not appeal. The application of Dee. 16,

Oct. 1876.]

SAGE Er AL. V. CENTRAL

R.R. Co. ET

AL.

417

though made in their interest, was in form by the Farmers'
Loan and Trust Company. This application was denied; and
properly so, because an appeal was only asked so far as it
affected the interests of these appellants. The trustee represents all the bondholders; and as the decree is indivisible,
it must appeal for the whole, or none. No application was
then made by the appellants for leave to intervene and become
parties, and consequently the court could not then have been
asked to allow them an appeal as parties. Such an application
was, however, made Jan. 11; and Jan. 14 they were admitted
as parties for the purpose of appealing. An appeal was then
allowed to them; but they. did not avail themselves of it,
either. by giving a supersedeasbond or a bond for costs. And
if they had done so, it could not have had the effect of a
supersedeas, becauge it was not allowed until after the expiration of the sixty days. The order of the court, to the effect
that if the bond should be given the appeal might be regarded
as taken and perfected Dec. 16, was of no effect for the purposes of a supersedeas. While it is true that the court may
enter an order in a cause nunc pro tune, where the action asked
for has been delayed by or for the convenience of the court
(Perry v. Wilson, 7 Mass. 394), it is never done where the
parties themselves have been at fault (Fishmongers' Company v. Robertson, 3 Man., Gr. & S. 974), or where it will work
injustice.
A 8upersedeas is a statutory remedy. It is only obtained by
a strict compliance with all the required conditions, none of
which can be dispensed with. Hogan v. Ross, 11 How. 297;
Railroad Co. v. HTarris, 7 Wall. 575. Time is an essential
element in the proceeding, and one which neither the court nor
the judges can disregard. If a delay beyond the limited time
occurs, the right to the remedy is gone, and the successful
party holds his judgment or decree freed and discharged from
this means of staying proceedings for its collection or enforcement. This is a right which he has acquired, and of which he
cannot be deprived without due process of law. The court can
no more give effect to a supersedeas by ordering that the appeal shall relate back to a time within the sixty days, than it
can to an appeal taken after the expiration of two years, by
voL. III.

27

418

SAGE ET AL. V. CENTRAL

R.R. Co.

ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

dating it back to a time within the limitation. To make a
nunc pro tunc order effectual for such purposes, it must appear
that the delay ivas the act of the court and not of the parties,
and that injustice will not be done.
A slight examination of the facts in this case will be sufficient to show that the failure to take this appeal in time is
attributable entirely to the parties. They knew, more than
twenty days previous to the entry of the decree, that there was
a conflict of interest between them and a large majority of the
bondholders, and that the trustee had been asked to have a
decree entered such as those opposed to them'desired. Instead
of seeking to be made parties to the suit at that time, or during
the first eleven days of the term and before the decree was
entered, they contented themselves with a notice to the trustee
and a demand upon it to procure such a decree as they required,
and, if that could not be done, to appeal. This, too, when they
knew that they had only $200,000 out of $8,700,000 of the
secured bonds. After the decree was entered, they delayed
any application to the court for leave to intervene for the protection of their own interest until after an adjournment to a
remote day had taken place. Then delaying, until near the
expiration of the sixty days, they caused the trustee to apply
for leave to appeal, so far as their interests were affected, when
it must have been apparent that such an order could not have
been made. Even then they filed no application to be made
parties so that they might appeal for themselves, but delayed
all action in that behalf until long after.the time when a supersedeas could be had as a matter of right. All this was the act
of the parties, and not of the court.
It is claimed, however, that the motion filed by the appellants Jan. 13, to set aside the decree, operated to suspend the
decree, and that under the authority of Brockcett v. Brockett,
2 How. 238, they had until sixty days after their motion was
denied to perfect an appeal and obtain a supersedeas. Bat
there is an essential difference between that case and this. In
that, the motion was made by parties to the suit. The motion
was one that could be made without leave, and it was entertained. The cause was referred to a master upon this motion.
Under such circumstances, the court held that the decree did

Oct. 1876.]

SAGE ET AL. V. CENTRAL R.R. Co. ET AL.

419

not become final until the motion for rehearing was decided.
Here, however, the movers were not parties to the suit. They
had no right to intervene, except upon leave; and this was
refused. Under such circumstances, it is clear that the decree
was not suspended in whole or in part by their motion. The
appellants were permitted to intervene, but only for the purpose
of an appeal. It would have been within the power of the court
to set aside the old decree and enter it over again; but this was
refused. Leave only was granted to appeal from the decree as
origindlly rendered.
No, supersedeas can follow from the appeal allowed by Mr.
Justice Miller, because that clearly took effect after the expiration of the sixty days from the date of the decree. Neither
can the order of the same justice have the effect of the allowance of a supersedeas on the original. appeal, because, as has
already been shown, that appeal was not taken in time.
From this it follows that the motion to vacate the supersedeas must be granted.
2. As to the appeal.
The appellants, by the order of Jan. 14, became parties to
the suit for the purposes of an appeal. This order, having
been made at the same term in which the decree was entered,
was within the power of the court; and although it does not
appear whether they were admitted as plaintiffs or defendants,
it was sufficient to enable them to prosecute an appeal for the
protection of their interests. Under ihis authority their appeal
has been allowed and perfected. Whether. this brings up the
whole of the case, or only a part, it is not necessary now to consider. It is clear that these parties have been allowed their
appeal; and that the case is here to the extent that is necessary for the protection of their interests. It is their separate
appeal within the rule as to the form in which a severance
may be obtained, which is laid down in Aasterson v. Herndon,
10 Wall. 416. The motion to dismiss the appeal is, therefore,
denied.
Both the appellants and the appellees ask to have the cause
advanced for a hearing, but, as only private interests are involved we see no reason why it should have preference over
other suits upon the docket. This motion also is denied.

DEBARY v. ARTHUR, COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ot.

MR. JUSTICE MILLER, with whom concurred TVIR. JUSTICE
FmLD, dissenting.

I dissent from this opinion.
I think the Circuit Court, under the circumstances of the
case, had a right to treat the application of appellants for
appeal as having been made when they asked liberty to use
the name of their trustee for that purpose; and it was rightfully
allowed by the Circuit Court as of that date. If this be so, it
is not denied that the bond approved by me would operate as a
supersedeas.

DEBARY v. ARTHUR, COLLECTOR.
The act of Congress of July 14, 1870 (16 Stat. 262), imposed on champagne wine
a duty of six dollars per dozen bottles (quarts), and three dollars per dozen
bottles (pints), and upon each bottle containing it an additional duty of three
cents.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
ifr. Stephien G. Clarke for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- Ceneral Smith, contra.
Mn. JUSTICE HU T delivered the opinion of the court.
The firm.of DeBary & Co. sued the collector of the port of
New York to obtain the return of an amount of duties which
they alleged had been illegally exacted from them. The Circuit Court, holding that the exaction of the duties complained
of was legal, rendered judgment for the defendant. The plaintiffs appeal to this court.
The question arises upon the act of Congress of July 14,
1870 (16 Stat. 262).
By sect. 21 of that statute it is enacted as follows :"There shall be levied, collected, and paid, the following duties,"
viz. -

"On all wines imported in casks, containing not more than
twenty-two per centum of alcohol, and valued at not exceeding
forty cents per gallon, twenty-five cents per gallon; valued at
over forty cents, and not over one dollar per gallon, sixty cents per

