Oct. 1876.]

THE

" IDAHO."

575

the subscription of stock to the railroad company in this case
could only be made under the amendatory act of March 24,
1868, and that the constitution of the State then required a
vote of the county to make such subscription valid.

As there

was no such vote, and no recital in the bond or elsewhere to
show that there was, the bonds were void.

THE

" IDAHO."

1. Actual delivery by the bailee on the demand of the true owner, who has the
right to the immediate possession of the goods bailed, is a sufficient defence
of the bailee against the claim of the bailor, and there is no difference in
this regard between a common carrier and other bailees.
2. While a contract of bailment undoubtedly raises a strong presumption that
the bailor is entitled to the thing bailed, it is not true that the bailee thereby
conclusively admits the right of the principal. His contract is to do with
the property committed to him what his principal has directed, - to restore
it, or to account for it. He does so account for it when he has yielded it to the
claim of one who has a right paramount to that of his bailor.
8. If there be any estoppel on the part of the bailee, it ceases when the bailment
on which it is founded is determined by what is equivalent to an eviction
by title paramount; that is, by the reclamation of possession by the true
Qwner.
4. Nor can it be maintained that a carrier can excuse himself for failure to deliver
to the order of.the shipper, only when the goods have been taken from his
possession by legal proceedings, or where the shipper has obtained the goods
by fraud from the true owner.
5. Whether the shipper has obtained, by fraud practised upon the true owner,
the possession he gives to the carrieror whether he mistakenly supposes
he has rights to the property, his relation to his bailee remains the same.
He cannot confer rights which he does not posgess; and, if he cannot
withhold the possession from the true owner, one claiming under him
cannot.
6. While a bailee cannot avail himself of the title of a third person (though that
person be the true owner), for the purpose of keeping the property for himself, nor in any case where lie has not yielded to the paramount title, he is
not answerable if he has delivered the property to its true owner at his
demand.
7. Without asserting that a title to personal property may not be created between
the issue of a bill'of lading therefor and its delivery to the ship, which will
prevail over the master's bill, the court holds, that, in the absence of any
such intervening right, a bill of lading does cover goods subsequently delivered and received to fill it, and that it will represent the ownership of the
goods. Their subsequent removal from the vessel by a person other than
the true owner, either with or without the consent of her officers, cannot
divest that ownership.

THE " IDAHO."[

[Sup. Ct.

8. The taking possession of property by one not its owner, or authorized by
him, shipping it, obtaining bills of lading from the carriers, indorsing them
away, or even selling the property and obtaining a full price for it, can
have no effect upon the rights of the owner, even in the case of a bonafide
purchaser.
9. The statutes of Louisiana prohibit the issue of bills of lading before the receipt
of the goods; but they do not forbid curing an illegal bill by supplying goods,
the receipt of which have been previously acknowledged.
10. If the owner of goods wilfully and wrongfuilly mixes them with those of
another of a different quality and value, so as to render them undistinguishable, he will not be entitled tb any part of the intermixture.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of New York.
The libellants claim .damages against the "Idaho" for the
non-delivery of one hundred and sixty-five bales of cotton, part
of a shipment of two hundred bales for Liverpool, made by
Thomas W. Mann, and consigned to the order of James Finlay
& Co. After the shipment, the libellants purchased the cotton
from Mann, who indorsed. to them the ship's bill of lading therefor. On the arrival of the vessel at Liverpool, thirty-five bales
were delivered to Finlay & Co., but the remaining one hundred
and sixty-five were delivered to Baring Brothers & Co., in pursuance of an order from William J. Porter & Co. of New. York.
Such a delivery was not in accordance with the stipulations of
the bill of lading; but it is attempted to be justified by the
alleged fact that Porter & Co. were the true owners of the cotton, and as such had a right, superior to that of the shippers,
to control its delivery.
In April, 1869, at New Orleans, W. J. Porter & Co., in due
course of business and in good faith, advanced to one Forbes a
large sum of money upon a bill of lading, which set forth a
shipment of one hundred and forty bales of cotton at New
Orleans, in the brig "C. C. Colson." The bill of lading was
in the ordinary form, executed by the lawful master of the
"Colson," but, in fact, the cotton had not been shipped at the
time of its execution. Some few days after the date of the bill
of lading, and after the acceptance of the drafts by Porter &
Co., Forbes did ship by the " Colson" one hundred and forty
bales of cotton, as and for that described in the bill of lading
sent to Porter & Co. This cotton was duly delivered to the
"Colson," was receipted for by the officers of the brig, and,

Oct. 1876.]

THE "IDAHO."

although not then placed on board, was delivered to the vessel
on the wharf alongside.
Subsequently to this shipment, and before the cotton was
taken into the hold of the brig, Forbes removed it from the
custody of the brig and shipped it on the steamship "Lodona,"
lying near, and bound for New York. The previous shipment
of the cotton on the "Colson" w~s unknown to the officers of
the "Lodona," and they issued bills of lading in the ordinary
form for the cotton they received.
Forbes shipped in the "Lodona" twenty-five other bales, and
took one bill of lading for the whole one hundred and sixty-five;
on which second bill of lading he obtained a large advance from
Schaefer & Co., of New York, to whom he made a second
assignment of the cotton.
The bill of lading for one hundred and sixty-five bales, which
was sent to Schaefer & Co., included the one hundred and forty
bales which had been taken from the "Colson" and delivered
to the "Lodona." The" Lodona" arrived in New York on the
29th or 30th of April. The one hundred and sixty-five bales
were taken directly to a warehouse by Schaefer & Co., who, on
the 1st of May, engaged freight in the "Idaho" for two hundred bales. On the same day, Schaefer & Co. sent for one Corcoran, who went to Schaefer's hous.e on the next day (Sunday),
and was then directed to remove all the marks and numbers
from the one hunidred and sixty-five bales, and re-mark them
with marks similar to thirty-five 6ther bales, which Schaefer
& Co. had stored in West Street. Corcoran.did this as well as
the short time permitted; and on Monday the two hundred
bales - one hundred and twenty of them marked S. A. L., and
eight marked V. 0. X. - were shipped in the "Idaho." This
shipment was not made in Schaefer's name; but, while Corcoran was at work on the cotton, it was nominally sold to Mann,
Schaefer's clerk, and was shipped in the name of Conklin &
Davis, grocers, who permitted their names to be thus used, and
who indorsed the ship's receipts over to Mann. On the 4th of
May Mann applied for and received the bill of lading of the
"Idaho" for the two hundred bales on which this action is
brought. On the same day Mann made a nominal sale of the
cotton to Hentz & Co.,- free on board.
VOL. Ill.

87

THE "IDAHO."

[Sup, Ct.

Hentz & Co. were told to ask no questions; and on the 5th
or 6th gave their note for the cotton to Mann, who paid it to
Schaefer, who held it till maturity, and when Hentz & Co. paid
the amount of it to Mann they obtained Schaefer's guaranty
against loss. Mann then paid the money over to Schaefer, who
gave him a check for $897.36, as for a difference in price between the sale to Mann and his sale to Hentz & Co. Hentz &
Co. acted under the direction of Schaefer & Co., the real parties in interest here in bringing this suit.
The court below dismissed the libel, and the libellants appealed here.
ljfr. B. T. Herriclc, for the appellant.
A carrier cannot set up a naked jus tertii or adverse title of a
hostile claimant against his shipper, nor show, as an excuse for
non-delivery according to the terms of the bill of lading, that
he has delivered the goods to the true owner. Story, Bailm.
(8th ed.), sects. 266, 450, 582; 2 Story, Eq. Jur., sect. 817;
Dixon v. Hammond, 2 B. & Ald. 310 ; -Robertsv. Ogelby, 9 Price,
269; Gosling v. Bernie, 7 Bing. 338; Burton et al. v. Wilkenson
et al., 18 Vt. 186; Gerburv. i1fonie, 56 Barb. 659; Barnardv.
Kobbe, 3 Daly, 376.
If the one hundred and forty bales of cotton that had been
unloaded at the -wharf in New Orleans, at which the "Colson"
was lying, were, in fact, part of the two hundred bales shipped
on the "Idaho," for which libellants held the bill of lading,
there was no such intermixture of said cotton as justified the
application of the rule of law in regard to a confusion of goods.
2 Kent's Com. 365; 1 Story, Eq. Jur., sect. 623; Lupton v.
*W7ite,15 Ves. 442; Wood's Inst. 158; Treat v. Barber, 7 Conn.
280 ; Seymour v. Wyc/off, 10 N. Y. 213 ; Story, Bailm., sect. 40,
pp. 41, 42 (8th ed.).
Mr. William G. Choate, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

In determining the merits of the defence set up in this
case, it is necessary to inquire whether the law permits a
common carrier to show, as an excuse for non-delivery pursuant to his bill of lading, that he has delivered the goods
upon demand to the true owner. Upon this subject there has

Oct. 1876.]

THE "IDAHO."

been much debate in courts of law, and some contrariety of
decision.
In Rolle's Abr. 606, tit. "Detinue," it is said, "If the bailee
of goods deliver them to him who has the right to them, he
is, notwithstanding, chargeable to the bailor, who in truth has
no right;" and for this, 9 Henry VI. 58, is cited. And so, if the
bailee deliver them to the bailor in such a case, he is said not
to be chargeable to the true owner (id. 607), for which 7
Henry VI. 22, is cited. The reasons given for such a doctrine, however satisfactory they may have been when they were
announced, can hardly command assent now. It is now everywhere held, that, when the true owner has by legal proceedings
compelled a delivery to himself of the goods bailed, such delivery is a complete justification for non-delivery, according to
the directions of the bailor. Bliven v. Hudson River Bailroad
Co., 36 N. Y. 403. And so, when the bailee has actually delivered the property to the true owner, having a right to the possession, on his demand, it is a sufficient defence against the
claim of the bailor. The decisions are numerous to this effect.
King v. Richards, 6 Whlrt. 418; Bates v. &anton, 1 Duer, 79;
Rardman v. Wilcock, 9 Bing. 382; Biddle v. Bond, .6 Best & S.
225. If it be said, that, by accepting the bailment, the bailee
has estopped himself against questioning the right of his bailor,
it may be remarked in answer, that this is assuming what cannot be conceded. Undoubtedly the contract raises a strong
presumption that the bailor is entitled; but it is not true that
thereby the bailee conclusively admits the right of the principal. His contract is to do with the property committed to him
what his principal has diiected, - to restore it, or to account for
it. Cheeseman v.:Exall, 6 Exch."341. And he does account for
it when he has yielded it to the claim of one who has light paramount to that of his bailor. If there be any estoppel, it ceases
when the bailment on which it is founded is determined by
-what is - equivalent to an eviction by title paramount; that is,
by the reclamation of possession by the true owner. Biddle v.
Bond, supra. Nor can it be maintained, as has been argued in
the present case, that a carrier can excuse himself for failure
to deliver to the order of the -shipper, only when the goods
have been taken from his possession by legil proceedings, or

THE "IDAHO."

[Sup. Or.

where the shipper has obtained the goods by fraud from the
true owner. It is true, that, in some of the eases, fraud of
the shipper has appeared; -and it has sometimes been thought
it is only in such a case, or in a case where legal proceedings
have interfered, that the bailee can set up the jus tertii.
There is no substantial reason for the opinion. No matter
whether the shipper has obtained the possession he gives to
the carrier by fraud practised upon the true owner, or whether
he mistakenly supposes he has rights to the property, his relation to his bailee is the same. He cannot confer rights
which he does not himself possess; and, if he cannot withhold
the possession from the true owner, one claiming under him
cannot. The modern and best-considered cases treat as a matter of no importance the question how the bailor acquired the
possession he has delivered to his bailee, and adjudge, that, if the
bailee has delivered the property to one who had the right to
it as the true owner, he may defend himself against any claim of
his principal. In the late case of Biddle v. Bond, supra,decided
in 1865, it was so decided; and Blackburn, J., in delivering the
opinion of the court, said there was nothing to alter the law on
the subject in. the circumstance that there was no evidence to
show the plaintiff, though a wrong-doer, did not honestly believe
that he had the right. Said he, the position of the bailee is
precisely the same, whether his bailor was honestly mistaken as
to the rights of the third person whose title is set up, or fraudulently acting in derogation of them. In Western Transportation
Company v. Barber, 56 N. Y. 544, the Court of Appeals of New
York unanimously asserted the same, doctrine, saying, "The
best-decided cases hold that the right of a third person to which
the bailee has yielded may be interposed in all cases as a defence
to an action brought by a bailor subsequently for the property.
When the owner comes and demands his property, he is entitled
to its immediate delivery, and it is the duty of the possessor to
make it. The law will not adjudge the performance of this
duty tortious as against a bailor having no title." The court
repudiated any distinction between a case where the bailorwas
honestly mistaken in believing he had the right, ard one where
a bailor obtained the possession feloniously or by force or fraud;
and we think no such distinction can be made.

Oct. 1876.]

THE "IDAHO."

We do not deny the rule that a bailee cannot avail himself
of the title of a third person (though that person be the true
owner) for the purpose ol keeping the property for himself, nor
in any case where he has not yielded to the paramount title.
If he could, he might keep for himself goods deposited with him,
without any pretence of ownership. But if he bas performed
his legal duty by delivering the property to its true proprietor,
at his demand, he is not answerable to the bailor. And there
is no difference in this particular between a common carrier and
other bailees.
Recurring, then, to the inquiry whether Porter & Co. -to
whose order the steamer delivered the one hundred and sixty-five
bales of cotton - were the true owners of the cotton, a brief statement of the evidence on which their title rests is necessary. It
originated as follows : On the 1st of April, 1869, one J. C. Forbes
obtained from the master of the brig " Colson," then lying at
New Orleans, a bill of lading for one hundred and thirty-nine
bales of cotton, described by specified marks. The bill was indorsed, and forwarded by Forbes to Porter & Co.; and drafts
against it to a large amount were drawn upon them, which they
accepted, credited, and paid on-or before the 7th of the month.
In fact, however, when the bill of lading was given, no such
cotton had been received by the brig; but on the 5th of April
the agent of Forbes bought one hundred and forty bales, then
at the shipper's press, and directed them to be sent to the "Colson," marked substantially as described in the bill of lading.
These bales were accordingly delivered fromn the press to the
brig on the 8th of April, and the first and second mate receipted
for them. They were not actually taken on board, but they
were deposited on the pier, at the usual and ordinary place for
the receipt of freight by the "Colson," and an additional bill
of lading for one bale only was taken by Forbes, and by him
indorsed and transmitted to Porter & Co., together with an invoice of the one hundred and forty bales corresponding with
the bills of lading. The marks and numbers on the bales were
the same as those mentioned in the bills of lading, excepting
only fhat thirty-five were marked L instead of thirty-six, and
sixteen marked S instead of fifteen. There was also a small
difference in the aggregate weight.

THE "IDAHO."

[Sup. Ct.

That the cotton thus delivered to the" Colson "was intended
to fill the bills of lading, one of which had been previously given,
is incontrovertible. They were so intended by the shipper.
If not, why were they thus marked? And why was a bill of
lading taken for one bale only, instead of for one hundred and
forty; and why was the invoice of the whole number sent?
Such, also, was plainly the understanding of the ship. The receipts of the mates, and the fact that the master gave a bill of
lading for one bale marked S, when there were sixteen bales
thus marked, leave this beyond reasonable doubt. What, then ?
Why, the one hundred and fofty bales thus shipped became
from the moment of shipment the property of Porter & Co., to
whom the bills of lading were indorsed. It is not only the
utterance of common honesty, but the declaration of judicial
tribunals, that a delivery of. goods to a ship corresponding in
substance with a bill of lading given previously, if intended and
received to meet the bill of lading, makes the bill operative
from the time of such delivery. At that instant it becomes
evidence of the ownership of the goods. Thus, in Bowley v.
Bigelow, 12 Pick. 307, it is said, a bill of lading operates by way
of estoppel against the master, and also against the shipper and
indoiser. "The bill acknowledges the goods to be on board
before the bill of lading is signed. But if, through inadvertence or otherwise, the bill of lading is signed before the goods
are on board, upon the faith and assurance that they are at
hand, as if they are received on the wharf ready to be shipped,
or in the shipper's own warehouse, . . . and afterwards they

are placed on board, as and for the goods embraced in the bill
of lading, as against the shipper and master the bill will operate on those goods by way 6f relation and estoppel." Such is
also the doctrine asserted in Halliday v. Hfamilton, 11 Wall.
565, and it is in harmony with the general rules that regulate
the transfer of personal property. We do not say that a title
to personal property may not be created between the issue of a
bill of lading therefor and its delivery to the ship, which will
prevail over the master's bill, but, in the absence of any such
intervening right, a bill of lading does cover goods subsequently
delivered and received to fill it, and will represent the ownership of the goods. The cotton delivered on the 8th of April on

Oct. 1876.]

THE " IDAHO."

the pier for the " Colson," and received by the mates of the
brig, became, therefore, at the instant of its delivery, the property of Porter & Co., who were then the indorsees of the bills
of lading. Its subsequent removal by Forbes to the "Ladona,"
either with or without the consent of the brig's officers, could
not divert that ownership.
There is nothing in the statutes of Louisiana which requires
a different conclusion. Those statutes prohibit the issue of
bills of lading before the receipt of the goods, but they do not
forbid curing an illegal bill by supplying goods, the receipt of
which have been previously acknowledged. The statutes are
designed to prevent fraud. They are not to be construed in aid
of fraud, as they would be if held to make a delivery of goods to
fill a fraudulent bill of lading inoperative for the purpose. The title of Porter & Co. to the one hundred and forty bales
must, therefore, as we have said, be held to have been perfected
when they were delivered to the " Colson " on the 8th of April.
No right in any other person intervened between the issue of
the bill of lading and the brig's receipt of the cotton to fill it.
It was after the title of Porter & Co. had thus become complete
that Forbes removed the one hundred and forty bales from the
custody of the " Colson" and shipped it for New York on the
"Ladona," together with twenty-five other bales, re-marking it,
and drawing drafts against this second shipment upon Schaefer
& Co. After carefully examining the evidence, we cannot doubt
that the one hundred and forty bales thus withdrawn from the
" Colson " were shipped on the "Ladona," and that they came
to the possession of Schaefer & Co., in New York, by whom
they were transferred, together with the other twenty-five
bales, to Mann, under whom the plaintiffs claim. The one
hundred and sixty-five bales, then, are the identical bales that
were included in the shipment on the "Idaho," and for which
the bill of lading was given to Mann. Of these, one hundred
and forty were the property of Porter & Co., fraudulently
withdrawn from their possession. It is hardly necessary to say
that the title of the true owner of personal property cannot be
impaired by. the unauthorized acts of one not the, owner.
Taking possession of the property, -shipping it, obtaining bills
of lading fiom the carriers, indorsing away the bills of lading,

THE "IDAHO."

[Sup. Ct.

or- even selling the property and obtaining a full price for it,
can have no effect upon the right of the owner. Even a bona
fide purchaser obtains no right by a purchase from one who is
not the owner, or not authorized to sell. It must, therefore, be
concluded that Porter & Co. were the owners of at least one
hundred and forty of the bales shipped by Mann on the" Idaho,"
and covered by the bill of lading to enforce which this libel
was filed.
All that remains to be determined is whether Porter & Co.
had a right to the possession of the additional twenty-five bales
Ahipped with the one hundred and forty from New Orleans on
the " Ladona," and shipped also on the "Idaho" for Liverpool,
together with the thirty-five bales delivered there to Finlay
& Co. When the one hundred and forty bales were removed
from the custody of the" Colson" and taken to the "-Ladona,"
twenty-five other bales were mingled with them. On the pier
opposite that vessel they were re-marked, and all shipped as one
lot, under one bill of lading. When they reached New York,
they came into the possession of Schaefer, the indorsee of the
bill of lading given by the "Ladona," who knew, when he
received them, that the " Colson" was short eight hundred or
one thousand bales. The newspapers had contained articles
about the fraud. He himself was a sufferer. He held some of
the fraudulent bills- of lading of the " Colson," and he had
heard that Porter was in the same condition. So he has testified.
With this knowledge he set to work to guard against the possibility of tracing the cotton. He caused the "Colson" marks
to be removed from the one hundred and forty bales, and the
"Ladona" marks to be removed from both the one hundred
and forty and the twenty-five bales. He then had the whole
re-marked, making no distinction between the lot of one hundred
and forty and that of. twenty-five, thus practically making the
bales undistinguishable. In addition to this, by an arrangement
between himself and Mann, his clerk, in the form of a sale, the
cotton was shipped en masse by the "Idaho."
It is impossible
for us to close our eyes upon the nature and purpose of this
transaction. It was a perfect confusion of the one hundred and
forty bales that belonged to Porter with the other twenty-five;
and it was not accidental. It was purposely made, with an

Oct. 1876.]

THE " IDAHO."

intent to embarrass or hinder the owner, and prevent him from
recovering his original property. There is no conceivable
motive for Schaefer's obliterating the marks, both of the
" Colson " and "Ladona" shipment, in so much haste (ordering it done on Sunday), and substituting new marks, except to
destroy the evidence of title in any other person. That such
was Schaefer's purpose may also be inferred from his conduct
in selling the same to Mann; from Mlann's sale on the same
day to the libellants, telling them he did not wish them to ask
whether the cotton was really Schaefer's, stating, also, that he
had bought from Schaefer, and that Schaefer guaranteed the
transaction; from Mann's turning over the libellants' note
immediately to Schaefer, and Schaefer's giving a guaranty
before its payment that the maker should be held harmless.
The whole arrangement was manifestly a scheme of Schaefer
to obscure the title to the cotton, to prevent its being traced by
the true owner, -a
scheme in the execution of which he -was
aided by Mann and the libellants.
Now, what must be the legal effect of all this ? What the
effect of intermingling the twenty-five bales with the one
hundred and forty that belonged to Porter, in such a manner
that they could not be distinguished, and so completely that it
is impossible for either party to identify any one of the one
hundred and sixty-five bales as a part of the lot of twenty-five,
or of the larger lot of one hundred and forty, shipped on the
"C olson"? We can come to no other conclusion than this:
the right of possession of the whole was in Porter, and neither
he who caused the confusion, nor any one claiming under him,
is entitled to any bale which he cannot identify as one of the
lot of twenty-five. It is admitted, the general rule that governs
cases of intermixture of property has -many exceptions. It
applies in no case where the goods intermingled remain capable
of identification, nor where they are of the same quality or
value; as where guineas are mingle t, or grain of the same
quality. Nor does the rule apply where the intermixture is
-accidental, or even intentional, if it be not wrongful. But all
the authorities agree, that if a mai wilfully and wrongfully
mixes his own goods with those of another owner, so as to
render them undistinguishable, he will not be entitled to his

586

UNITED STATES V. THOMPSON ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

proportion, or any part, of the property. Certainly not, unless
the goods of both owners are of the same quality and value.
Such intermixture is a fraud. And so, if the wrong-doer confounds his own goods with goods which he suspects may belong
to another, and does this with intent to mislead or deceive
that other, and embarrass him in obtaining his right, the effect
must be the same. Thus it was ruled in Ryder v. Hathaway, 21 Pick. 306. Such is the present case. The confusion
of the bales of cotton was not accidental. It was purp6sely
made. The intermixture was evidently intended to render any
identification of particular bales impracticable, and to cover
them agaiist the search of a suspected owner. It was, therefore, wrongful. And the bales were not of uniform value.
They. differed in weight and in grade. But even if they were
of the same kind and value, the wronged party would have a
right to the possession of the entire aggregate, leaving the
wrong-doer to reclaim his own, if he can identify it, or to demand his proportional part. Stephenson v. Little, 10 Mich. 447.
The libellants have made no attempt to identify any part.
See, upon this subject of confusion of. goods, 2 Kent's Com.
(11th ed.) 364, 365; Hart v. -Ten ByEck, 2 Johns. Ch. 62, 108;
JTeil v. Silverston, 6 Bush (Ky.), 698; Hesseltine v. Stockwell,
30 Me. 370.
It follows from all we have said that the delivery by the
"Idaho" of the one hundred and sixty-five bales, to the order
of Porter & Co., was justifiable, and that the libellants have
sustained no legal injury.
-Decreeaffirmed.

UmnTED STATES v. THomwSN ET AL.
Judgments in the State courts against the United States cannot be brought here
for re-examination upon a writ of error, except in cases where the same relief
would be afforded to private parties.

ERROr to the Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland.

In the progrds6 of a suit pending in the Circuit Court of
Queen Anne's County, Md., to settle the affairs of McFreely &
Hopper, an insolvent partnership, and to collect and apply the

