Oct. 1876.]

TILTON ET AL. V. COFIELD ET AL.

involved in the suit; and the decree, as rendered, could not
have been given except by establishing it. This is expressly
admitted by the creditors in their answer to this bill; for they
say, "That the said decrees were given upon the allegation of
the bill of complaint of the said A. T. Stewart & Co., among.
which was the material allegation, without which his said complaint could not have been sustained, that they, the said A. T.
Stewart & Co., had recovered, and at the time of their bill
filed had, a judgment in this honorable court, upon which they
had sued .out an execution of fierifacias," &c.
Decree affirmed.

TiLTON ET AL. V.

COFEIEL

ET AL.

1. Where no local statute or rule. of local law is involved, the power to amend is
the same in attachment suits as in others.
2. A court of equity cannot act as a court of review, and correct errors of a
court of law, nor can it, in the absence of fraud, collaterally question the
conclusiveness of a judgment at law.
3. A purchaser of property pendente lite is as conclusively bound by the results of
the litigation as if he had from the outset been a party thereto.

APPEAL from'the Supreme Court of the Territory of Colorado.
Argued by Mr. George T. Curtisand Hr. George H. WTilliams
for the appellants, and submitted on pripted arguments by Mr.
Amos Steck for the appellees.

delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 28th of August, 1865, the appellants sued out of the
District Court of Arapaho County, Col., a writ of attachment
against the property of Judson H. Dudley and Thomas P. Ames,
for the sum of $2,591.44. The indebtedness was stated in the
affidavit to be upon an account for goods' sold and, delivered.
On the same day, the writ was served by attaching the real
estate in controversy. A declaration was duly filed. The
damages were laid at $3,000. On the 27th of January, 1865,
judgment was rendered for $2,591.44, and costs. This judgment
was reversed by the Supreme Court of the Territory on the 10th
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNFE

TILTON ET AL. V. COFIELD ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

of February, 1868. On the 9th of March, 1867, Dudley, by
Charles G. Cheever, his "attorney" conveyed a large amount of
property, including, all that attached under the writ of appellants, to David Moffit, except two lots, which Dudley himself
conveyed to the I-allecks. The other appellees derive their
title from Moffit. The power* of attorney to Cheever was so
far defective, that only an equity was vested in Moffit, and
nothing more passed to those holding under him. On the
12th of September, 1868, the Tiltons, by leave of the court,
filed in the attachment suit an amended affidavit and declaration,
whereby were included, as a demand in favor of the plaintiffs, a
promissory note executed to them by Dhdley and Ames, dated
Sept. 19, 1864, for $2,592.90, and bearing interest at the rate
of two per cent per month, until paid. This note was given
to balance the account set forth in the prior proceedings, and
represented the same debt. On the 1st of November, 1869,
judgment was rendered against Dudley by confession for
$5,652.80, -Lnd an order was made for the sale of the property attached. Pursuant to this order, the sheriff sold the
attached property at public vendue to the appellants for the
sum of $6,345.25, and on the 13th of December, 1871, executed
a deed to them.
The appellees filed a bill and supplemental bill, seeking
to vacate the sale and annul the conveyance by the sheriff.
The court decreed that the order of sale and the proceedings
thereon touching the premises were nullities ; that the sheriff's
deed to the appellants was void; that the property should be
for ever discharged from the lien of the judgment; and that the
Tiltons should be perpetually enjoined from intermeddling with
or selling it.
The record discloses no ground for any imputation of fraud
against the appellants. The .good faith of the account, the
validity of the note, and the propriety of the amount for which
the judgment was recovered, as between the parties to attachment proceedings, are not controverted. The original demand
was an honest one, arising in the regular course of commercial
dealings. The appellants are bona fide creditors, and have
simply pursued the appropriate means for the collection of what
was owing-to them. Fraud is not an element in the coiitro-

Oct. 1876.]

TILTON ET AL. V. COFIELD ET AL.

versy. The case requires no further consideration in this
aspect.
Nor is it denied that the court by which the judgment in the
attachment was rendered had full jurisdiction.
In Voorhes v. The Bank of the United States, 10 Pet. 449,
the defendant in an action of ejectment was the defendant in
error. He claimed title from certain proceedings in attachment
in Ohio. The following objections were taken to them:
1. No affidavit, as required by the statute, was found filed with
the clerk; and the law provided, that, if this 'were not done, the
writ should be quashed on motion. 2. Three months' notice
of the attachment was to be given in a newspaper, and fifteen
days' notice was to be given by the auditors. It did not appear
that either had been done. 3. The defendant was to be called
three times, and his defaults recorded. No such record appeared
to have been made. 4. The auditors were not to sell until after
twelve months. It did not appear when the sale was made.
5. The return showed a sale to Foster and Woodward; the
deed was made to Stanley, and no connection between them
appeared in the record.
The court there being competent to take jurisdiction, and
having acquired jurisdiction by the seizure of the property, this
court held that All its acts and orders made during the progress
of the case were beyond the reach of collateral inquiry, and
could be assailed only in a direct proceeding had for that
purpose before a competent tribunal.
In Grignon's Lessee v. Astor, 2 How. 341, the controversy
grew out of a license given by the County Court to sell the
property of a deceased person. This court applied the same
principles. - It was said,

-

,,-The granting the license to sell is an adjudication upon all the
facts necessary to give jurisdiction, and, whether they existed or
not, is wholly immaterial, if no appeal is taken. The rule -is the
same, whether the law gives an appeal or not. If Lone is given
from the decree, it is conclusive on all whom it concerns. . . . A
purchaser under it is not bound to look beyond the decree. If
there is error in it of the most palpable kind ; if the court which
rendered it have, in the exercise of jurisdiction, disregarded, misconstrued, or disobeyed the plain provisions of the law which gave

TILTON ET AL. V. COFIELD ET AL.

ESup.Ct.

them the power to hear and determine the case before them, - the
title of the purchaser is as much protected as if the adjudication
would stand the test of a writ of error."
The lines which separate what is void from what is erroneous
is clearly drawn in the former case.
The eighth section of the local statute under which the
appellants' suit was instituted, declares, "N o writ of attachment shall be quashed nor the property taken
thereon restored, any garnishee discharged, nor any bond by him
given cancelled, nor any rule entered against the sheriff discharged
on account of any insufficiency of the original affidavit, writ of
attachment, or attachment bond, if 'the plaintiff, or some credible
person for him, shall cause a legal and sufficient affidavit or attachment bond to be filed or the writ to be amended in such time or
manner as the court in their discretion shall direct; and in that
case the cause shall proceed as if such proceedings had been originally sufficient."
The amendments here in question were all within the equity,
if not the letter, of this section. The act provides for the
amendment of the writ. No such amendment was made. The
grasp of the process was confined to the property originally
attached. No attempt was made to reach any other. The
description of the cause of action was changed, but in the view
of equity, and in point of fact, it was substantially the same
with that originally described. Allowing amendments is incidental to the exercise of all judicial power, and is indispensable
to the ends of justice, Usually, to permit or refuse, rests in
the discretion of the court; and the result in either case is not
assignable for error. This subject was fully examined in Tiernan's -Executorsv. Woodruff, 5 McLean, 135.. It is there shown,
that both in the English and American courts amendments
have been allowed in well-considered cases, for the purpose of
introducing into the suit a new and independent cause of
action. This was going further than the court went in permitting the -amendments made by the appellants. It has also
been held, upon full consideration, that "courts have the
power to amend their process and records, notwithstanding
such amendment may affect existing rights.", Greene v. Cole,
13 Ired. Law, 425.

Oct. 1876.]

TILTON ET AL. V. COFIELD ET AL.

Where no local statute or rule of local law is involved, the
power to amend is the same in attachment suits as in others.
Cases of this kind, too numerous to be cited, may be found, in
which amendments in the most important particulars were
permitted to be made. We refer to some of these adjudications:
MeKnight v. Strong, 25 Ark. 2i2; Taleott v. 1?osenbury, 8 Abb.
Pr. N. s. 287; Vanderheyden v. Gary, 3 How. Pr. 367; Tully
v. Jlerrin, 44 Miss. 627; Wadsworth v. Cheeney, 13 Iowa, 576 ;
Jackson v. Stanley, 2 Ala. 326 ; Wincle v. Stevens, 9 Iowa, 264;
Wood v. Squires, 28 Mo. 397; Scott v. lacy, 3 Ala. 250;
Johnson v. Huntington, 13 Conn. 47.
If the amendments objected to by the appellees were improperly allowed, it was at most only an error, and in no wise
affected the judgment while unreversed, or the validity of
the order of sale, or of the sale and conveyance made under
them, to the appellants. They have a perfect legal title,
unless it is overcome by the case made in the record by the
complainants.
We have already held that there was no fraud on the part of
the Tiltons. A case more free from that vice can hardly be
imagined. This takes away the jurisdictional foundation of the
complainants' case. In the absence of fraud, a court of equity
cannot collaterally question the conclusiveness of a judgment
at law.
Nor can a court of equity turn itself into a court of review, and
correct the errors of a court of law. This is alien to its jurisdiction, and beyond"the sphere of its power and duties. Cameron v. Bell, 2 Dana, 328; .De Bymer v. Cantellow, 2 I. C. 85;
Shollenkirc v. Wheeler, 3 id. 275. As well might a court of
law undertake to perform a like function with respect to a
court of equity. Each is independent of the other. They act
on different principles, and, except where some recognized
ground of equity jurisdiction is concerned, are each alike bound
to recognize the validity and conclusiveness of the record of
what the other has done. Equity in such cases does not contradict, but supplements. It does in this way what right and
justic-e require, and what, from the inflexibility of the principles upon which a court~of law proceeds, it could not do. Any
thing touching the amendments out of which this controversy

TILTON ET AL. V. COFIELD ET AL.

[Sup. t

has grown were no more open to inquiry in a court of equity
than in another and independent legal forum.
The decree below in this respect involved a usurpation and
the invasion of a domain, upon which the court had no right to
enter. There being no fraud, neither the judgment nor any
thing which preceded or followed it could be properly made the
subject of re- iew by that tribunal.
The authorities to which we have referred are conclusive
upon the subject.
There is another objection to the case of the appellees, which
must not be overlooked. They are not subsequent attaching
creditors, nor creditors at all; they are purchasers lite Pendente.
The law is, that he who internieddles with property in litigation
does it at his peril, and is as conclusively bound by the results of
the litigation, whatever they may be, as if he had been a party to
it from the outset. Inloe's Lessee v. Hfarvey, 11 Md. 524; Salsbury/v. Benton, 7 Lans. 352; farringtonv. Slade, 19 Barb. S. C.
162; 1 Story's Eq., sect. 406. The appellees voluntarily took
the position they obcupy. They chose to buy a large amount
of property, including that in controversy, from the fugitive
debtor. This was done after .the latter had been seized under
the writ of attachment, and while the suit in which it was
issued was still pending. They took the title subject to the
contingencies of the amendments that were made, and of every
thing else, not- coram non judice, the court might see fit to do
in the case. The attachment might be discharged, or the judgment might be larger than was then anticipated. They took
the chaices, and must abide the result. Having obtruded themselves upon the -property attached, they insist that their purchase narrowed- the rights of the plaintiffs and circumscribed
the jurisdiction of the court. Such is not the law. After their
purchase, the court; the parties, and the res, stood in all respects
as they stood before; and the judgment, sale, and conveyance
have exactly the same effect as if the appellees and the facts
upon which they rely bad no existence.
In some of the States, peculiar systems of jurisprudence, with
respect to suits in attachment, have grown up, and every thiig
in that connection is held to be strieti juris. In other States,
more liberal rules prevail. We do not mean to contravene the

Oct. 1876.]

FRENCH V. FYAN ET AL.

former. In cases arising in such States, we should be bound to
apply the local law. In the Territory where this controversy
arose, it does not appear that any system touching the subject
is yet established. We have, therefore, felt at liberty to apply
general principles to the case in hand.
Decree reversed, and case remanded with directions to dismiss
the bill.

FRENcH: v. FYAx ET AL.
1. The act of Sept. 28, 1850 (9 Stat. 519), granting swamp-lands, makes it the
duty of the Secretary of the Interior to identify them, make liststhereof, and
cause patents to be issued therefor. Held, that a patent so issued cannot be
impeached in an action at laW, by showing that the land which it conveys
was not in fact swamp and overflowed land.
2. Railroad Company v. Smith, 9 Wall. 95, examined, and held not to conflict with
this principle.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the tnited States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
Argued by Mr. D. T. Jewett for the plaintiff in error, and by
Mr. Montgomery Blair for the defendants in error.

MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This action of ejectment was tried by the court below without
a jury, by agreement of the parties; and the only finding made
by the court was a general one in favor of defendant, on which
judgment was rendered in bar of the action.
The single question in this case is raised on the refusal of
the court to receive oral testimony to impeach the validity of
a patent issued by the United States to the State of. Missouri
for the land in question, under the act of 1850, known as the
"swamp-land grant," the purpose being to show by such testimony that it was not in point of fact swamp-land within the
meaning of that act.
The bill of exceptions *shows that the land was certified, in
March, 1854, to the Missouri Pacific Railroad Company, as
part of the land granied .b.aiat inthe congtruction of said road
by the act of June 10, 1852; and the plaintiff, by purchase
MR. JUSTICE

