CITY OF WINONA V.

COWDREY.

[Sup. Ct.

His contracts for the cotton were clearly illegal and void, and
gave him no title. Such has been the ruling of this court in
an unbroken series of adjudications. Coppel v. Hall, 7 Wall.
548; United States v. Lane, 8 id. 185; United States v. Grossmeyer, 9 id. 72; United States v. Xontgomery,'15 id. 395; United
States v. Lapine, 17 id. 602; Hllit l ell v. United States, 21 id. 350.
The result is the same as if the purchases had been made
by an agent of the appellant, sent by him from New Orleans,
instead of having been made by himself in person.
To hold otherwise would give a premium to a law-breaker,
and involve the anomaly of conceding to the offender rights and
immunities denied to all the citizens of the loyal States.
Judgment affirmef.

CITY OF WOIONA v. COWDREY.
The contract between the city of Winona and the Minnesota Railway Construction Company, bearing date April 23, 1870, construed, and the rights of the
respective parties thereto discussed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Minnesota.
This was an action against the city of Winona upon certain
coupons attached to bonds, referred- to in a contract between
the city and the Minnesota Railway Construction Company,.
which is as follows: "This agreement, made this twenty-third day of April, 1870, by
and between the city of Winona, of the State of Minnesota, and
the Minnesota Railway Construction Company, a corpoiation organized under the laws of the State of Minnesota, and now engaged
in the construction of the St. Paul and Chicago Railway, witnesseth: "That whereas the building of a railroad from St. Paul to
Winona is of great public utility and benefit, and a public improve.
ment, which, it is believed, would be particularly beneficial and advantageous to the city of Winona; and whereas said St. Paul and
Chicago Railway will connect, by bridge or ferry, at Winona with
the La Crosse, Tremlpealeau, and Prescott Railroad, now being constructed, and will, when both railroads are completed, open and fur-

Oct. 1876.]

CITY OF WINONA V.

COWDREY.

nish an unbroken line of travel by railroads through Winona, between St. Paul and Milwaukee and Chicago, which also is considered especially beneficial and advantageous to the city of Winona;
and whereas, in view of the premises, and as an inducement and part
compensation to the Minnesota Railway Construction Company, the
city of Winona is willing and proposes to issue and deliver to the said
construction company its bonds to the nominal amount of 8100,000,
to aid in the building of said railroad from St. Paul to Winona, and,
for the purpose of thus securing a line of travel by railroad between
the East and the West through said city, as aforesaid, the bity of
Winona, in consideration of the premises, hereby agrees, the Minnesota Railway Construction Company keeping and performing their
agreement as herein set forth, to make, sign, seal, and deliver, for
the use and benefit of the said Minnesota Railway Construction
Company, its obligations or bonds, in sums of 81,000 each, to the
aggregate amount of $100,000, obligating the said city to pay the
amount specified therein to Russell Sage and others, of the city
and State of New York, or to the bearer, in twenty years from the
first day of January, A.D. 1871,- viz., on the first day of Jauary,
A.D. 1891,-in the city of New York, with interest at the rate of
six per cent per annum; the interest to be paid semi-annually, on the
first day of January and July of each year, in the city of New York;
and to deposit said bonds with the First National Bank of St. Paul,
in the State of Minnesota, to be held by said depositary in escrow
or in trust, to be delivered as hereinafter provided.
"The Minnesota Railway Construction Company hereby, on
their part, the city of Winona keeping and performing its agreement as herein contained, agree :",First, To either, in their own name or that of their successors
or assigns, or in the name of the St. Paul and Chicago Railway
Company, build and equip a good and substantial railway from the
city of St. Paul to the city of Winona (excepting a bridge across
the Mississippi River at Hastings), and put it into operation within
three years from this date, and to connect at Winona, by bridge or
ferry, with the La Crosse, Trempealeau, and Prescott Railroad.
" Second, That said part of raid railway, between a point on
the Winona and St. Peter Railroad at or near Minnesota City, in
Winona County, and the village of Minneiska, in Wabasha County,
shall be built, equipped, and put into operation within one year
from this date.
" Third, That the -La Crosse, Trempealeau, end Prescott Railroad, from its terminus opposite Winona, as now located and fixed

CITY OF WINONA

V.

COWDREY.

[Sup. Ct.

(which terminus shall not be changed without the consent of the
city of Winona), to a point on the Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway east of North La Crosse, shall be built, equipped, and put into
operation within the year 1870.
"It is further agreed, by and between the parties hereto, that
the said bonds are to be, in form, plain unconditional obligations,
and substantially of the form and tenor of schedule A, hereto annexed, and are to be executed as soon as practicable, and placed in
the custody of said depositary, to be delivered as hereinafter provided.
"It is further agreed, as to the delivery of said bonds, as follows :"_First, That if the said La Crosse, Trempealeau, and Prescott
Railroad is not built, equipped, and put into operation, as aforesaid,
between the points aforesaid, within the year 1870, then, and in
that event, the said bonds and- coupons shall be by said depositary returned to the city of Winona, or to its legally authorized
agent.
"Second, That if a railroad from a point on the Winona and
St. Peter Railroad, at or near Minnesota City, in Winona County,
to Minneiska, in Wabasha County, is not built, equipped, and put
into operation, as aforesaid, within one year from this date, then,
and in that event, said bonds and coupons shall be by said depositary returned to said city of Winona or its legally. authorized
agent.
" Third, That if a railroad is not built, equipped, and put into
operation from St. Paul to Winona (except the bridge at Hastings),
as af6resaid, connecting at Winona, by bridge or ferry, with the
La Crosse, Trempealeau, and Prescott Railroad within three years
from this date, then, and in that event, the said bonds and coupons
shall be by said depositary returned to said city of Winona, or to
its legally authorized agent; but in no case shall the said bonds, or
any part thereof, be delivered by said depositary to the said Minnesota Railway Construction Company until a truss railroad bridge
is constructed across the Mississippi River, at Winona, connecting
the said St. Paul and Chicago Railway, or the iinona and St. Peter
Railroad, with the La Crosse, Trempealeau, and Prescott Railroad,
at the present terminus of the last-named railroad. But if, in -each
and every of the respects abbve mentioned, the said railrbads, and
the several parts of said, railroads, are built, equipped, and put into
operation within the times and in the manner above agreed, and
said railroad bridge constructed as above provided* then, and in

Oct. 1876.]

CITY OF WINONA V. OOWDREY.

that event, and in that event only, shall the said bonds be delivered to said Minnesota Railway Construction Company by said
depositary.
"It is further agreed, that, while said bonds are legally held in
custody or trust by said depositary, as aforesaid, the interest-coupons,
as they mature and become due, are to be delivered to the said c6nstruction company.
"It is further agreed, that the city of Winona shall have no
cause of action against the Minnesota Railway Construction Company, by reason of the failure to build said lines of railroads,or any
part thereof.
"In witness whereof, the said city of Winona has authorized
their mayor to sign this instrument in their corporate name, and
the city recorder to attest the same with his official signature and
the seal of the city, and the board of directors of the Minnesota
Railway Construction- Company have authorized their president
and secretary to sign, seal, and-deliver the same in their corporate
name.
"CITY

OF WINONA,

By Wx. S. DREw,' Xayor.
"[SEAL.]
"Attest: CHAS. F. SCHROTH, City Recorder.
S"MINNESOTA

RAILWAY

CONSTRUCTION -COMPANY,

By RUSSELL SAGE, President.
"[SEAL.]
"Attest: JAnINs M. McKINLEY, Assistant Secretary."
Schedule A, referred to in the foregoing contract, is as fol-.
lows:

-

"-Form of Deed.
"STATE

"No..

OF MINNESOTA,'

CITY OF WINONA.

$1,000.
"Know all men by these presents, that the city of Winona, in
Winona County, State of Minnesota, is indebted to Russell Sage
and others, of the city and State of New York, or bearer, in the
sum of $1,000, which they promise to pay to the bearer hereof, on
the first day of January, 1891, in the city of New York, with interest thereon from the first day of January, 1871, at the rate of six
per cent per annum, payable semi-annually at the Importers' and
Traders' National Bank, in the city of New York, on the first day
of January and July in each year, on the presentation and surrender
of the annexed coupons as they severally become due.
"This bond is one of a series of like tenor and effect issued by

CITY OF WINONA

V.

COWDREY.

'

[Sup. Ct.

the city of Winona, to the amount of $100,000, to aid in the construction of a railroad from St. Paul to Winona.
"In witness whereof, the city of Winona has caused this bond
to be sealed, signed, and delivered in their corporate name, by order
of the city council of said city, pursuant to their resolutions in this
respect passed
,1870.
"[SEAL.]

"Attest:

THE CITY OF WINONA,
,

" By
City Jecorder."

,

.Mayor.

The remaining facts are set forth in the opinion of the court,
nd it is unnecessary to restate them here.
There was a verdict for the plaintiff, and judgment was entered thereon.
The city of Winona sued out this writ.
Argued by Mr. Thomas Wilson for the plaintiff in error, and
by Mr. Charles E. _landrau for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAvIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit involves the interpretation of the contract between
the city of Winona and the Minnesota Railway Construction
Company, bearing date April -23, 1870. It was brought on certain coupons which were attached to the bonds whereof mention is made in that contract, and delivered by the depositary
to the company after one-half of them in number and value
were overdue. They were received by the plaintiff below, after
their maturity and before the commencement of this suit.
The company stipulated that within three years from that
date it would build, equip, and put in operation in its own
name, or that of its successors and assigns, or of the St. Paul
and Chicago Railway Company, a good and substantial railway from - St. Paul to Winona (excepting a bridge across
the Mississippi River at Hastings), and connect at Winona
by bridge or ferry with the La Crosse, Trempealeau, and Proscott Railroad; that a part of said railway between certain
points specifical]y mentioned should be completed and put in
operation within on& year; and that the La Crosse, Trempealeau, and Prescott Railroad, from its terminus opposite Winona,
should be put in operation to a point on the Milwaukee and St.
Paul Railway east of north La Crosse within the year 1870.

Ot. 1876.]

CITY OP WINONA V.

COWDREY.

It was only by performing the stipulated conditions within
the designated periods that the company could acquire a valid
title to these evidences of indebtedness. In no case was any
part-of them to be delivered until a truss railroad bridge should
be constructed across the Mississippi River at Winona, connecting the St. Paul and Chicago Railway, or the Winona and St.
Peter Railroad, with the La Crosse, Trempealeau, and Prescott
Railroad, at the then terminus of the latter.
These are the leading provisions of the contract. Its preamble recites that the construction of a railroad from St. Paul to
Winona is of great public utility, and particularly advantageous
to the latter city, and discloses that the controlling inducement
for furnishing the promised aid to the company is to secure an
unbroken line of travel by railroad between the East and West
through Winona.
The depositary in whose hands the bonds and coupons were
placed delivered them to the construction company March 27,
1872, after the road had been built from St. Paul to the western
limits of Winona, and its track connected there with that of the
Winon'a and St. Peter Railroad.
The liability of the city to pay these coupons is denied chiefly
upon the ground that there was not such a compliance with the
contract by the construction company as would entitle it to the
possession of them.
The bill of exceptions shows that evidence was given tending to prove that the roads and parts of road mentioned in the
contract had been respectively constructed, equipped, and put
in operation within the appointed time, and the verdict of the
jury is conclusive upon the questions of fact involved in the
issue.
The exceptions to the charge of the court do not each require
a special 'or extended consideration. At the date of the contract, the construction company had, for a certain consideration,
agreed with the St. Paul and Chicago company to construct and
equip its road between Chicago and St. Paul, and obtain the
necessary right of way. It was to receive all gifts, bounties, or
aids that might be given by any corporation or municipality to
aid in building the projected road. The railroad company sold
its road Jan. 3, 1872, to the Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway

CITY OF WINONA V. COWDREY.

[Sup. Ct.

Company, and the latter was properly held by the court below
to be the successor of the construction company within the
meaning bf the contract. That part of the road which was to
be completed within twelve, months was equipped and put in
operation by the Winona and St. Peter Railroi*d Company,
under a contract with the Chicago and St. Paul Railroad Company, with the assent and approval of the construction company.
In our opinion the court below correctly held, that constructing,
equipping, and putting in operation the road between St. Paul
and Winona by the construction company, the St. Paul and
Chicago company, or the assignees of either, was in"that regard
a sufficient- compliance with the contract.
The remaining charge to which exception was taken relates
to the connection of the road from St. Paul with the track of
the St. Peter Railway within the limits of Winona. The court
instructed, that a connection of the track of the last-named
railway with the railroad bridge across the river at Winona said bridge connecting with the La Crosse Railroad at the point
named in the contract - was a connection by bridge or ferry
within the meaning of that contract, if, after the purchase of
the St. Paul and Chicago Railroad by the Milwaukee and St.
Paul Railroad Company, the latter company continued to run
its cars over the railroad bridge and the Winona and St. Peter
Railroad within the limits of the city.
It is contended that building the railway from St. Paul to the
western limit of Winona, and uniting it there with the Winona
and St. Peter road at a point more than a mile west of the west
end of the bridge connecting the latter road with the La Crosse
Railroad, was not, in the just sense of the term, a connecting of
the road from St. Paul by bridge with the La Crosse Railroad,
within the meaning or purview of the contract.
The contract, as we construe it, stipulates that the contemplated connection may be made by means of the Winona and
St. Peter Railroad. One of its early'provisions declares that the
connection between the St. Paul and the La Crosse roads at
Winona shall be by means of a bridge or ferry; but a subsequent one is express, that the bonds shall not be delivered-until
the bridge is constructed across the river at Winona. connecting theSt. Paul Railway or the Winona and St. Peter road with

Oct. 1876.]

SUPERvISORS v. LACKAWANA IRON, ETm. Co.

619

the La Crosse road at the then terminus of the latter. It was,
therefore, optional with the construction company to build the
St. Paul Railway over the bridge, and form an actual junction
with the La Crosse road; or to build it to any point in the city,
and make the required connection by means of the Winona and
St. Peter road. Either of these modes would secure the object
desired by the city, - an uninterrupted communication by rail
from St. Paul across the river at Winona to the eastern seaboard.
It is contended that the contract is against public policy and
without consideration. The obvious answer is, that it was expressly sanctioned by an act of the legislature of the State, and
was designed to insure and expedite the construction of works of
internal improvement deemed of vital importance to the material interests of the city. Whether it be expedient to invest
municipal corporations with -uthority to aid in building railways, is a question foreign to the present, inquiry; but where,
as in this instance, it has been conferred and exercised, and the
city has secured the advantages of the contract, the law will
not suffer her to escape from its obligations.
Judgment affirmed.

BOARD OF SUPERVISORS

OF WOOD COUNTY v. LACKAWANA

IRON AND COAL CoMPANY.
The acts of March 8, 1867, c. 93, of March 3, 1869, c. 166, and of Feb. 17, 1871,
of Wisconsin, under which certain bonds were issued to the Green Bay and
Lake Pepin Railroad Company, were not repealed, either directly or by implicationby the acts of the legislature of that State of March 8, 1870, c. 210, and
of March 11, 1872, c. 34.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for -the
Western District of Wisconsin.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. P. L. Spooner and
Mr. S. L. Dixon for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. S. U.
Pinney for the dafendant in error.

delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action at law brought by the defendant in error to
MR. JUSTICE SwAYNE

