-

WINDSOR V. 1fOVEIGH.

[Sup. Ct.

In exhibits Nos. 2 and 6 we have the same fabric as appellant's, applied to the same use. It is impossible to call the
hair-net or netting, for which appellant claims a patent, a new
invention, or any invention of his.
Decree affirmed.

WINDSOR V. MOVEIGH.
1. A sentence of a-court, pronounced against a party without hearing him, or
giving him an opportunity to be heard, is not a judicial determination of his
rights, and is not entitled to respect in any other tribunal.
2. The jurisdiction acquired by the seizure of property, in a proceeding in rem for
its condemnation for alleged forfeiture, is not to pass upon the question of
forfeiture absolutely, but to pass upon that question after opportunity has
been afforded to its-owner And parties interested to appear and be heard upon
the charges for which the forfeiture is claimed. To that end, some notification of the proceedings, beyond that arising from the seizure, prestcribing the
time within which the appearance must be made, is essential.
8. In proceedings before the District Court, in a confiscation case, monition and
notice were issued and published; but the appearance of the owner, for which
they called, when made, was stricken out, his right to appear being denied
by the court.- Held, that the subsequent sentence of confiscation of his property was as inoperative upon his rights. as though no monition or notice had
ever been issued. The legal effect7 of striking out his appearance was to
recall the monition arid notice as to him.
4. The doctrine, that where a court has once acquired jurisdiction it has a right
to decide every question which arises in the cause, and its judgment, however erroneous, cannot be collaterally assailed, is only correct when the court
proceeds, after acquiring jurisdiction of the cause, according to the established modes governing the class to which the case belongs, and does not
transcend, in the extent or character of its judgment, the law which is applicable to it.

ERROR to the Corporation Court of the city of Alexandria, Va.
Ejectment for a tract of land situate in the city of Alexandria, Va. Finding and judgment for the plaintiff. The
defendant sued out this writ of error. The facts are stated in
the opinion of the court.
Argued by Mr.:S. I. Beach, for the plaintiff in error, and
by JMr. Philip-Phillipsand Mr.John Howard, contra.
MR. JuSTICE FmLD delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of ejectment to recover certain real

Oct. 1876.]

WINDSOR V. MCVEIGH.

property in the city of Alexandria, in the State of Virginia.
It was brought in the corporation court of that city, and a writ
of error from the court of appeals of the State to review the
judgment obtained having been refused, the case was brought
here directly by a writ of error from this court. Authority for
this mode of procedure will be found stated in the case of
Gregory v. Mc Jeigh, reported in the 23d of Wallace.
The plaintiff in the corporation court proved title in himself
to the premises in controversy, and consequent right to their
immediate possession, unless his life-estate in them had been
divested by a sale under a decree of condemnation rendered in
March, 1864, by the District Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Virginia, upon proceedings for their
confiscation. The defendant relied upon the deed to his grantor
executed by the marshal of the district upon such sale.
The proceedings mentioned were instituted under the act of
Congress of July 17, 1862, " to suppress insurrection, to punish
treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of
rebels, and for other purposes."
In July, 1863, the premises incontroversy were seized by the
marshal of the district, by order of the district-attorney, acting
In August
under instructions from the Attorney-General.
following, a libel of information against the property was filed
in the name of the United States, setting forth that the plaintiff
in this case was the owner of the property in question; that he
had, since the passage of the above act, held an office of honor
and trust under the government of the so-called Confederate
States, and in various ways had given aid and comfort to the
rebellion; that the property had been seized in pursuance of
the act in compliance with instructions from the AttorneyGeneral, and, by reason of the premises, was forfeited to the
United States, and should be condemned. It closed with a
prayer that process of monition might issue against the owner
or owners of the property and all persons interested or claiming
an interest therein, warning them at some early day "to appear
and answer " the libel'; and, as the owner of the property was
a non-resident and absent, that an order of publication iii the
usual form' be also made. Upon this libel the district judge
ordered process of monition to issue as prayed, and designated

WINDSOR v. MoVEIoH.

[Sup. Ct.

a day and place for the trial of the cause, and that notice of
the same, with the substance of the libel, should be given by
publication in a newspaper of the city, and by posting at the
door of the court-house. The process of monition and notice
were accordingly issued and published. Both described the
land and mentioned its seizure, and named the day and place
fixed for the {rial. The monition stated that at the trial all
,persons interested in the land, or claiming an interest, might
"'aprPear and iiake their allegations in that behalf." The notice
warned all persons to appear at the-trial, "to show cause why
condemnation should not be decreed, and to intervene for their
Interest."
Tle owner of the property, in- response to the monition and
notice, appeared by counsel, and filed a claim to the property
and an answer to- the libel. Subsequently,; on the 10th of
March, 1864, the distriet~attorney moved that the claim and
answer and the appearance of" the respondent by counsel be
stricken from the files, on the ground that it appeared from his
answer that he was at the time of filing the same "a resideht
within the city of Richmoid, within the Confederate lines, and
a rebel." - On the same day the motion was granted, and the
claim and answer ordered to be stricken from the files. 'The
appearance of the respondent was by his answer. The court
immediately entered .its sentence and decree, condemning the
property as forfeited to- the United States, reciting that, the
usual proclamation having been made, the default of all persons
had been duly entered. The decree ordered the issue of a
venditioni exponas for the sale of the property, returnable on
the sixteenth day of the following April. At the sale under
this writ the grantor of the defendant became the purchaser.
The question for determination is, whether the decree of
condemnation thus rendered, without allowing the owner of
the property to appear in response to the monition, interpose
his claim for the property," and answer the libel, was of any
validity. In other words, the question is, whether the property
of the plaintiff could be forfeited by the sentence of the court
in a judicial proceeding.to which he was not allowed to appear
and make answer to the charges against him, upon the allegation
of which the forfeiture was demanded.

Oct. 1876.]

WINDSOR V. MCVEIGH.

There were several libels of information filed against the
property of *the plaintiff at the same time with the one here
mentioned. They were identical in their allegations, except
as to the property seized, and the s*ame motion to strike from
the files the appearance, claim, and answer of the respondent
was made in each case, and on the same day, and similar orders
were entered and like decrees of condemnation. One of these
was brought here, and is reported in the 11th of Wallace. In
delivering the unanimous opinion of .this court, upon reversing
the decree in the case, and referring to the order striking out
the'claim and answer, Mr. Justice Swayne said: "The order in
effect denied the respondent a hearing. It is alleged he was in
the position of an alien enemy, and could have no locus standi
in that forum. If assailed there, he could defend there. The
liability and right are inseparable. A different result would
be a blot upon our jurisprudence and civilization. We cannot
hesitate or doubt on the subject. It would be contrary to the
first principles of the social compact and of the right administration of justice." 11 Wall. 267.
The principle stated in this terse language lies at the foundation of all well-ordered systems of jurisprudence. Wherever
one is assailed in his person or his property, there he may
defend, for the liability and the right are inseparable. This is
a principle of natural justice, recognized as such by the common
intelligence and conscience of all nations. A sentence of a
court pronounced against a party without hearing him, or
giving him an opportunity to be heard, is not a judicial determination of his rights, and is not entitled to respect in any
other tribunal.
That there must be notice to a party of some kind, actual or
constructive, to a valid judgment affecting his rights, is admitted. Until notice is given, the court has no jurisdiction in any
case to proceed to judgment, whatever its authority may be, by
the law of its organization, over the subject matter. But notice
is only for the purpose of affording the party an opportunity
of being heard upon the claim or the charges made; it is a
summons to him to appear and speak, if he has any thing to
say, why the judgment sought should not be rendered. A
denial to a party of the benefit of a notice would be in effect to

WINDSOR V. MOVEIGH.

[Sup. Ct.

deny that he is entitled to notice at all, and the sham and
deceptive proceeding had 'better be* omitted altogether. It
would be like'saying to a party, Appear, and you shall be heard;
and, when he has appeared, gaying, Your appearance shall not be
recognized, and you shall not be heard. In the present case, the
District Court not only in effect said this, but immediately
added a decree of condemnation, reciting that the default of
all persons had been duly entered. It is difficult to speak of a
decree thus rendered with moderation; it was in fact a mere
arbitrary edict, clothed in the form of a judicial sentence.
The law is, and always has been, that whenever notice or
citation is required, the party cited has the right to appear and
be heard; and when the latter is~denied, tle former is ineffectual
for any purpose. The denial to a party in such a case of the
right to 'appear is in legal effect the recall of the citation to him.
The period within which the appearance must be made and the
right to be heard exercised, is, of course, a matter of regulation,
depending either upon positive law, or the rules or orders of
the court, or the established practice in such cases. And if the
appearance be not made, and the right to be heard be not
exercised, within the period thius prescribed, the default of the
party prosecuted, or .possible claimants of the property, may, of
course, be entered, and the allegations of the libel be iaken as
raue for the purpose of the proceeding. But the denial of the
right to appear and be heard at all- is a different matter altogether.
, The position of the defendant's counsel is, that, as the proceeding for the confiscation of the property Was one in rem, the
court, by geizure of the property, acquired jurisdiction to
determine its liability to forfeiture, and consequently had a
right to decide all questions subsequently arising in the progress
of the cause; and its decree, however erroneous, cannot, therefore, be collaterally assailed. In supposed support of this
position, opinions of this court in several cases are cited, where
similar language is used respecting the power of a court'to pass
upon questions arising after jurisdiction has attached. But the
preliminary proposition of the counsel is not correct. The jurisdiction acquired- by~the -court bhy 'seizure- of the res was nbt to
condemn the propertfy without further proceedings. The physi-

Oct. 1876.]

WINDSOR v.

MCVEIGH.

cal seizure did not of itself establish the allegations of the
libel, and could not, therefore, authorize the immediate forfeiture
of the property seized. A sentence rendered simply from the
fact of seizure would not be a. judicial determination- of the
question of fprfeiture, but a mere arbitrary edict of the judicial
officer. The seizure in a suit in rem only brings the property
seized within the custody-of the court, tnd informs the owner
of that fact. The theory of the law is, that all property is in
the possession of its dvner, in person or by agent, and that its
seizure will, therefore', operate to impart notice -to him. Where
notice is thus given, the bwner has the right to appear and be
heard respecting the charges for which the forfeiture is claimed.
That right must be recognized and its exercise allowed before
the court can proceed beyond the seizure to judgment. The
jurisdiction acquired by the seizure is not to pass upon the
question of forfeiture absolutely, but to pass upon that question
after opportunity has been afforded to its owner and parties
interested to appear and be heard upon the charges. To this
end some notification of the proceedings, beyond that arising
from the seizure, prescribing the time within which the appearance must be made, is essential. Such notification is usually
given by monition, public proclamation, or publication in some
other form. 'The manner of the notification is immaterial, but
the notification itself is indispensable.
These views find corroboration in the opinion of Mr. Justice
Story, in the case of Bradstreet v. Neptune Insurance Co.,
3 Sumn. 601. In that case, the action was upon a policy of
insurance upon a vessel, the declaration alleging its loss by
seizure of th6 Mexican government. The defendants admitted
the seizure, but averred that it was made and that the vessel
was condemned for violation of the revenue laws of Mexico,
and to prove the averment produced a transcript of the record
of the proceedings of the Mexican court against the vessel, and
of the decree of condemnation. Among the questions considered
by the court was the effect 'of that record as proof of the laws
of Mexico, and of the'jurisdiction of the court and the cause of
seizure and condemnation. After stating that the sentence of
a foreign dourt of admiralty and prize in rem was in general
conclusive, not only in respect to the parties in interest, but

WINDSOR V. MOVEIGH.

[Sup. Ct.

also for collateral purposes and in collateral suits, as to the
direct matter of title and property in judgment, and as to the
facts on which the tribunal professed to proceed, Mr. Justice
Story said, that it did not strike him that any sound distinetion
could be made between a sentence pronounced in rem by a
court of admiralty and prize, and a like sentence pronounced
by a municipal court apon a seizure or other proceeding in rem;
that in each the sentence was conclusive as to the title and
property, and, it seemed to him, was equally conclusive as to the
facts on which the sentence professed to be founded. But the
learned judge added, that it was an esgential ingredient in every
case, when such effect was sought to be given to the sentence,
that there should have been proper judicial proceedings upon
which to found the decree; that is, that there should have
been some certain written allegations of the offence, or statement of the charge for which the seizure was made, and upon
which the forfeiture was sought to be enforced; and that there
should be some personal or public notice of the proceedings, so
that the parties in interest, or their representatives or agents,
-might know what the offence was with which they were charged,
and. might have an opportunity to defend themselves, and to
disprove the same. " It is a rule," said the learned judge,
"founded in the first principles of natural justice, that a party
shall have an opportunity to be heard in his defence before his
property is condemned, and that charges on which the condemnation is sought shall be specific, determinate, and clear.
If a seizure is made and condemnation is passed without the
allegation of any specific cause of forfeiture or offence, and
with6ut any public notice of the proceedings, so that the parties
in interest have no opportunity of appearing and making a
defence, the sentence is not so much a judicial sentence as an
arbitrary sovereign edict. It has none of the elements of a
judicial proceeding, and deserves not the respect of any foreign
nation. It ought to have no intrinsic credit given to it, either
for its justice or for its truth, by any foreign tribunal. It
amounts to little more, in common sense and common honesty,
than the sentence of the tribunal which first punishes and then
hears the party;.- castigatgue, auditque. It may be binding
upon the subjects of that particular nation. But, upon the

Oct. 1876.]

WINDSOR v.

MOVEIGH.

eternal principles of justice, it ought. to have no binding obligation upon the rights or property of the subjects of other
nations-T for -it tramples under foot all the doctrines of international law, and is but a solemn fraud, if it is clothed with all
the forms of a judicial proceeding."
In another part of the same opinion the judge characterized
such sentences "as .mere mockeries, and as in no just sense
judicial proceedings;" and declared that they " ought to be
deemed, both ex direeto in'rem and collaterally, to be mere
arbitrary edicts or substantial frauds."
This language, it is true, is used with respect to proceedings
in rem of a foreign court, but it is equally applicable and
pertinent to proceedings in rem of a domestic court, when they
are taken without any monition or public notice to the parties.
In Woodruff v. Taylor, 20 Vt. 65, the subject of proceedings
in rem in our courts is elaborately considered by the Supreme
Court-of Vermont. After stating that in such cases notice is
given to the whole world, but that from its nature it is to the
greater part of the world constructive only, and mentioning the
manner in which such notice is given in cases of seizure for
violation of the revenue laws, by publication of the substance
of the libel with the order of the court thereon specifying the
time and place of trial, and by proclamation for all persons
interested to appear and contest the forfeiture claimed, the
court observed, that in every court and in all countries whee
judgments were respected, notice of some kind was given, and
that it was just as material to the validity of a judgment in rem
that constructive notice at least should appear to have been
given as that actual notice should appear upon the record of a
judgment in personam. "A proceeding," continued the court,
"professing to determine the right of property, where no notice,
written or constructive, is given, whatever else it might be
called, would not be entitled to be dignified with the name of a
judicial proceeding. It would be a mere arbitrary edict, not to
be regarded anywhere as the judgment of a court."
In the proceedings before the District Court in the confiscation case, monition and notice, as already stated, were issued
and published; but the appearance of the owner, for which
they called, having been refused, the subsequent sentence of

WINDSOR V. MOVEIGH.

[Sup. Ct.

confiscation of his property was as inoperative upon his rights
as though no monition or notice had ever been issued. The
legal effect of striking out his appearance was to recall ' the
monition and notice as to him. His position with reference to
subsequent proceedings was then not unlike that of a party in
a personal action, after the service made upon him has been set
aside. A service set aside is never service by which a-judgment
in the action can be upheld.
The doctrine invoked by counsel, that, where a court has
once acquired jurisdiction, it has a right to decide every question which arises in the cause, and its judgment, however erroneous, cannot be collaterally assailed, is undoubtedly correct as
general proposition, but, like all -genera:. propositions, is subject to many qualifications in its application.. All courts, even
the highest, are more or less limited in their jurisdiction : they
are limited to particular classes of actions, such as civil or criminal; or to particular modes of administering relief, such as
legal or equitable; or t6 transactions of a special character,
such as arise on navigable waters, or relate to the testamentary
-disposition of estates; or to the use of particular process in the
.enforcement of their judgments. Ntorton v. Meador, Circuit
Court for California. Though the court may possess jurisdiction of a cause, of the subject-matter, and of the parties, it is
still limited in its modes of- procedure, and in the extent and
character of its judgments. It must act judicially in all things,
and cannot then transcend the power conferred by the law.
If, for instance, the action be upon a money demand, the court,
notwithstanding its complete jurisdiction over the subject and
parties, has no power to pass judgment of imprisonment in the
penitentiary upon the defendant. If the action be for a libel
or personal tort, the court cannot order in the case a specific
performance of a contract. If the action be for the possession
of real property, the court is powerless to admit in the case the
probate of a will. Instances of this kind show that the general doctrine state4 by counsel- is subject to many qualifications. The judgments mentioned, given in the cases supposed,
would not be merely erroneous : they-would be absolutely void
because the court in rendering them would transcend the limits
of its authority in those -cases. Sue the language of Mr. Jus-

-

Oct. 1876.]

WINDSOR V. MC'VEIGH.

tice Miller, to the same purport, in the case of Ex parte Lange,
18 Wall. 163. So it was held by this court in Bigelow v. Forrest, 9 id. 351, that a judgment in a confiscation case, condemning the fee of the property, was void for the remainder, after
the terinination of the life-estate of the owner. To the objection that the decree was conclusive that the entire fee was
confiscated, Mr. Justice Strong, speaking the unanimous opinion of the court, replied: "Doubtless a decree of a court, having jurisdiction to make the decree, cannot be impeached
collaterally; but, under the act of Congress, the District Court
had no power to order a sale which should confer upon the
purchaser rights outlasting the life of French Forrest (the
owner). Had it done so, it would have transcended its jurisdiction." Id. 350.
So a departure from established modes of procedure will
often render the judgment void; thus, the sentence of a person
charged with felony, upon conviction by the court, without the
intervention of a jury, would be invalid for any purpose.
The decree of a court of equity upon oral allegations, without
written pleadings, would be an idle act, of no force beyond that
of an advisory proceeding of the Chancellor. And the reason
is, that the courts are not authorized to exert their power in
that way.
The doctrine stated by counsel is only correct when the
court proceeds, after acquiring jurisdiction of the cause, according to the established modes governing the class to which the
case belongs, and does not transcend, in the extent or character
of its judgment, the law which is applicable to it. The statement of the doctrine by Mr. Justice Swayne, in the case of
Cornell v. Williams, reported in the 20th of Wallace, is more
accurate. " The jurisdiction," says the justice, "having attached in the case, every thing done within thA 2ower of that
jurisdiction, when collaterally questioned, is held conclusive of
20
the rights of the parties, unless impeached for fraud."
Wall. 250.
It was not within the power of the jurisdiction of the District Court to proceed with the case, so as to affect the rights
of the owner after his appearance had been stricken out, and
the benefit of the citation to him thus denied. For jurisdiction

284

BIGELoW v. BERKSHIRE LiFE INS. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

is the right to hear and determine; not to determine without

hearing. And where, as in that case, no appearance was
allowed, there could be no hearing or opportunity of being
heard, and, therefore, could be no exercise of jurisdiction. By
the act of the court, the respdndent was excluded from its jurisdiction.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MiLER, MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, and MR.
JUSTICE HUNT

dissented.

'NOTE. - (he-qory v. JfclVeigh, also in error to the Corporation Court of the
city of Alexandria, Va., was argued at the same time and by the same counsel
as was the preceding case.
hMu. JUSTICs FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is similar to that of Windsor v. .lfcVeigh, and, upon the authority
of the decision in that case, the judgment below is affirmed.

Mr.. JUSTICE MILLER, MR. JUsTIcE BRADLEY, and MIR. JcSTICE- HUNT, dissented.

BIGELOW

v.

BERKSnIRE LIFE INuS1

AfCE

CompA0.

In an action against it upon a policy of life insurance, which provided that it
should be null and void if the insured died by suicide, "sane or insane," the
company pleaded that he"' died from the effects of a pistol-wound inflicted
upon his person by his own hand, and that he intended, by inflicting such
wound, to destroy his own life." Held, that a replication setting up that,
"at the time when he inflicted said wound, he wxas of unsound mind, and wholly
unconscious of his act," is bad.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This is an action on two policies issued by the defendant on
the life of Henry W. Bigelow. Each contained a condition in
avoidance, if the insured should die by suicide, sane or insane;
and in such case the company agreed to pay to the party in
interest the surrender value of the policy at the time of the
death of Bigelow. The defendant pleaded that Bigelow died
from the effects of a pistol-wound inflicted upon his person by
his own hand, and that he intended by this means to destroy
his life. To this the plaintiffs replied, that Bigelow, at the

