RAMSAY CO. v. BILL POSTERS ASSN.

501

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

CHARLES A. RAMSAY COMPANY v. ASSOCIATED
BILL POSTERS OF THE UNITED STATES AND
CANADA ET AL.
WM. H. RANKIN COMPANY v. ASSOCIATE D BILL
POSTERS OF THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.

Nos. 100, 101. Submitted November 15, 1922.-Decided January
2, 1923.

1.' A combination 'of many billposters, throughout the United States
and Canada, to destroy competition in the business of posting bills
and secure a monopoly, by limiting and restricting commerce in
posters to channels dictated by them, to exclude others from the
trade, and to enrich themselves by demanding noncompetitive prices,
held violative of the Anti-Trust Act. P. 511.
2. Solicitors of advertising, for customers in many States, who prepared, designed, purchased 'and sbld posters and caused them to
be'displayed by local billposters in many places throughout the
Union and Canada, and whose business suffered from the abovementioned combination, were entitled to sue the alleged conspirators for triple damages under the Anti-Trust Act. P. 511.
271 Fed. 140, reversed.

ERROR to judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming judgments of the District Court which sustained demurrers and dismissed the complaints in two
actions for triple damages under the Sherman Act.
*Mr. John A. Hartpence and Mr. Thomas G. Haight
for plaintiffs in error. Mr. John B. Johnston was also on
the brief.1
'On motion of counsel for plaintiff in error, the writ of error, in
each case, as to the defendants Kings County Trust Qompany, Annie
Link and Kirwin H. Fulton, executors of the estate df Barney Link,
deceased, was, on November 15, 1922, dismissed without costs to
either party.

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

260 U. S.

It- is -difficult to conceive of a plan better caldulated to
bring about a complete. m onop6ly in the billposting
business than that devised and put into effect by the defendants. There was to be -only one billposter in each
city or town in the .united States and Canada, and no
member was' to compete with another; members were
furnished with funds of the association to buy out competing concerns in their respective localities; advertisers
could not have their billposting done by members of the
association if they, did business with a non-member; no
lithographer could furnish stock posters to independent
billposters or advertisers (unless the latter were to have
the posters placed by members of the association) except
under penalty of having the members of the association
refuse to deal with them; and finally business could be
taken by members dhly through twelve licensed solicitors
throughout the vh-&le of the, United States and Canada.
The inevitable effect was to monopolize the billposting
business throughout the United States and Canada.
United States v. 'Associated Bill Posters, 235 Fed. 540,
541.
A further result of the monopoly thus created was that
it enabled the members of the association to fix what rates
they 'saw fit, and to drive out'of business all but the
favored twelve of those who had theretofore been engaged
in the legitimate'business of advertising. agents or who
might thereafter desire to pngage in that business.
The immediate and direct effect was also to restrain
interstate qommercb. -This follows from either of two
aspects of the cases.
(A) When the defeiidats an-d-otlei members 6f the
association combined and took the steps which they did
to prevent lithographers from selling stock or sample
posters to independent billposters, and to make it impossible for advertisers to purchase such posters if they
desired and purposed to have them postedby non-mem-

RAMSAY CO. v. BILL POSTERS ASSN.
501

503

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

bers, they directly restrained commerce; and, as the
lithographers were in most cases located in different States
than the purchasers of the posters, they directly restrained
interstate commerce.
In this aspect, the cases cannot be distinguished from
Montague & Co. v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38; Eastern States
Retail Lumber Dealers' Association v. United States, 234
. 5. 600, and Belfi v. United States, 259 Fed. 822. Moreover, they fall clearly within the principle of the decisions
of this Court in Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S.274, and Swift
& Co. v. United States, 196 U. S.375.
In Hopkins v., United States, 171 .U. S. 57-8, as well
as in Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 604, it was
pointed out that there was no evidence of any act on .the
part of the defendants preventing purchases and sales of
cattle by anyone other than that such sales were prevented by the mere refusal on the part of the defendants
to do business with non-members -(commission merchants) in a manner violative of-the rules of the respective exchanges. See Swift & Co. v. United States, 196
U. S.375, 397. Blumenstock BrothersAdvertising Agency
v. Curtis Publishing Co., 252 U. S.436, is not applicable
to this case. See Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S.495.
(B) In another aspect of the case also, the defendants
have directly restrained interstate commerce. The purchase of posters by advertisers or agents, such as the
plaintiffs, and the shipment of the same to other States
to be posted on billboards surely constitute °interstate
commerce withii the decisions of this Court. The purchase, shipment and posting must be considered in the
light of one complete commercial transaction. When the
defendants, therefore, conspired to refuse to accept for
posting upon their billboards the advertising matter of
any advertiser who gave any of his business to a nonmember, and by the other means before mentioned made
it impossible for him to deal with non-members, they re-

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

260 U.. S.

strained interstate comrnerce-:-they restricted the number
of persons with whom, advertisers -could deal and prevented
the natural flow of commerce; they
made impossible the complete commercial .transaction. It will not
do to overlook the great part which poster advertising
plays in th4-tommercial intercourse 'of the nation. -In
determining whether there has been an unlawful restraint,
all of the 8ements which make up the completed scheme
or plan to monopolize the billposting business must be
considered, and although the parts may be lawful, the
plan as, a whole may make them unlawful. Swift & Co.
v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 396. Therefore, although
it mayi have been, standing alone, lawful for the defendants to refuse to post the bills of certain advetisers, .yet
if the whble plan or scheme of which that.was merely a
part was unlawful, the refusal became unlawful.
The business -of plaintiffs bore a direct relation to the
interstate commerce unlawfully restrained, and was injured in such a way as to entitle them to maintain an
action under § 7 of the Sherman Act. United Copper
Securities Cq. v.Amalgamated Copper Co., 232 Fed. 574;
Chattanooga Foundry & Pipe Works v. Atlanta, 203
II. S.390.
The" plaintiffs purchased and sold the advertising
poster and shipped them from State to State.-- Their'
contracts with their customers or clients necessarily involved, therefore, the movement of goods in interstate
commerce; as, for the same reason, did also their dealings
with the billposters. There was nothing of that kind in
the -Blumenstock Case. Moreover, in that case the coimplaint was that the defendant was attempting to,Monopolize certain advertising business. 252 U. S. 441. Consequently, the business there attempted to be monopolized had to be interstate commerce to come within the
Sherman Act, and the defendants, therefore, engagedtherein. In the cases at bar, the charge is that the de-

RAMSAY CO. v. BILL POSTERS ASSN.
501

505

Argument, for Defendants in Error.

fendants - conspired to restrain! interstate commerce;
hence, they need not have been engaged themselves in
interstate commerce. Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274.
If it be decided that the only unlawful restraint is that
imposed upon the sale of the posters, it is impossible to
say that the ixjuries, which the plaintiffs' businesses sustained, were not due to some considerable extent to that
restraint.
It is inconceivable that there is no direct relation between an unlawful restraint and an injury, when the plan
as a whole, containing one or more unlawful restraints, is
so devised as to drive the plaintiffs out of business.
United Copper Securities Co.' v. Amalgamated Copper
Co., 232 Fed. 577.
The plaintiffs are not barred from recovery because
they were formerly licensed to solicit work and place it
with members of the association. Distinguishing, Bluefields S. S. Co. v. United Fruit-Co., 243 Fed. 1.
Mr. Richard T. Geene for defendants'in error. Mr.
Daniel S. Murphy and Mr. H. C. Lutkin were also on the
brief.
Neither the posting of posters nor the soliciting of such
business affects interstate commerce, eicept incidentally.
Therefore, if, as claimed, the plan has brought about a
complete monopoly of the biliposting business, it is not
condemned by the Sherman Act. FederalBaseball Club
v. NationalLeague, 269 Fed. 681; affirmed, 259 U. S. 200;
Blumenstock Brothers Advertising Agency v. Curtis Publishing Co., 252 U. S. 436; Hopkins v. United States, 171
U. S. 578; Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 604.
There is no allegation in the complaints that defendants attempted in any way to restrict freedom of production, sale, transportation or use of special posters, which
constitute the great volume of the business, or that the
rules and regulations adopted by the defendant associa-

506

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

260 U. S.

tion affected -interstate commerce in special posters,
except remotely and incidentally.The plaintiffs are engaged in soliciting national business onlyj in which special posters are used exclusively.
Such restraint as existed affecting stock posters-was segregated from and did not in any Way affect the business of
national outdoor -advertising. No claim is made that rates fixed for billposting service
were -unreasonable or excessive. , The Hopkins Case is
authority for the proposition that the mere power to fix
rates for intrastate transactions, does not necessarily imply
a restraint of interstate trade and commerce.
The limitation of the number of licensed solicitors of
billposting contracts is a legitimate and proper regulation
of the billposting business under the decision in the Hopkins Case.
In the Blumenstock Case the advertiements were published in magazines which' were intended to be and were
thereafter objects of interstate commerce; but this Court
held that the refusal -to accept advertisements was too
remote in its relation to the interstate commerce of circulating magazines to rnder the defendant liable under the
Sherman Act. The refusal to accept advertisements for
the billboards is'eyen 'moreremote in its relation to interstate commerce in posters, whichr precedes the publication
of the advertisements by posting the posters on the billboards.. The posters are consumed upon the billboardsThere is no allegation in the complaints that the, defendants ever purchased posteis;-and the allegation that
the members of the association threatened to refuse "to
deal "with lithographers is meaningless, because the memnbers of the association never had any dealings with lithogiraphers and their business was such that they had no
occasion to deal with lithogiaphers. They dealt with
advertisers and solicitors exclusively. There is, therefore,
no allegation that, the defendants have exercised any
direct restraint upon interstate commerce.

RAMSAY CO. v. BILL POSTERS ASSN.
501

507

Argument for Defendants in Error.

The plan of organization of the defendant association,
as alleged, was not designed, and was not in any way
used, to effect any restraint upon commerce in posters.
In so far as there was any direct restraint upon interstate commerce in stock posters, it was effected'solely by
threats that the members of the association would refuse
to buy stock posters. The purchase of stock posters was
not a part of the billposters' business. There is no allegation in the complaints that any of the measures adopted
by the association took cognizance of the source of any
poster offered to members for posting. Whether or not
the posters offered to defendants for posting were manufactured by lithographers engaged in selling stock posters
to independent billposters or to advertisers intending to
use them on independent boards, they would be accepted
and posted by the defendants if they came through one
of the licensed solicitors from an advertiser who gave all
his billposting business to members of the association.
It thus appears that, in the alleged attempt to prevent
the sale of stock posters to independent billposters and
to advertisers intending to place them upon independent
boards, the defendants did not make any use of the measures adopted by the association relating to the billposting
business, but relied solely upon threats of refusal of members to buy stock posters. The alleged combination to
monopolize the billposting business was separate and distinct from, and had no relation to, the alleged restraint
upon interstate commerce in stock posters. But even if
it could be said, as claimed by plaintiffs, that these separate and distinct-things were parts of an entire scheme or
plan, it would nevertheless be true, as held by Judge Hand,
that the plaintiffs have not been injured in their business
or property "by reason of anything forbidden or declared
to be unlawful "by the Sherman Act.
Any restraint upon interstate commerce in special
posters which may have resulted from the control which

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

260 U. S.

the defendants exercised over the business of posting
posters upon billboards was too remote, being merely
incidentil to the object of the defendants, which was to
regulate and control the billposting business. On the
other hand, the restraint upon interstate commerce in
stock' posters which it is claimed is alleged in the complaints, if it existed at all, was the direct result of the
threats of refusal by members of the association to buy
stock posters. Plaintiffs were not affected by such restraint upon interstate commerce in stock posters.
Even if, as claimed, the business of the plaintiffs had
a direct relation to interstate commerce in special posters,
the decision in the Blumenstock Case is an authority
against the claim of plaintiffs that they are entitled to
recover for the injury to their business occasioned by the
incidental restraint upon iiterstate commerce in special
posters. - Under the Blumenstock Case the alleged attempt to monopolize the billposting business is too remote in its relation to interstate commerce in special
posters to come within the Sherman Act.
But the plaintiffs' business was not that of buying and
selling posters. Incidentally and as agent for or in aid
of their advertising customers, they' supervised the pro-'
duction of the special posters and settled the lithographer's bills and included them in their own charge.
Their business was purely that of solicitors of advertising
contracts. They were not merchants or traders in goods.'
Plaintiffs cannot maintain an action against their
former associates in the alleged unlawful combination.
based upon defendants' refusal to renew plaintiffs'
licenses to continue in such combination and to reap their
share -of the. profits of the alleged unlawful combination.
Bluefields S. S. Co. v. United Fruit Co., 243 Fed. 1;
appeal dismissed, 248 U. S. 595; Eastman Kodak Co. v.
Blackmore, 277 Fed. 694; Lee Line Steamers v. Memphis
Co., 277 Fed. 5; McMullen v. Hofman, 174 U. S. 639;

RAMSAY CO. v. BILL POSTERS ASSN.
501

509

Opinion of the Court.

Continental Wall Paper Co. v. Voight & Sons Co., 212
U. S. 227.
-

MR. JUSTICE McREY oLDs delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These are separate actions for treble damages under the
Sherman Act. The plaintiffs are distinct corporations and
demand different sums; otherwise their complaints are
identical. Holding no cause of action was stated the trial
court dismissed both complaints, upon demurrer, and the
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed this action. 271 Fed.
140. It will suffice to state the substance of the pertinent
allegations.
Plaintiffs were solicitors of advertising for customers in
many States. They prepared, designed, purchased and
sold posters and caused them to be displayed by local
operators in many cities and towns throughout the United
States and Canada. They contracted with their customers and received pay for the entire service of preparing,
designing, purchasing- and posting the advertisements

and were engaged in interstate commerce.
Defendants are a New York corporation and its officers
and directors, together with certain favored solicitors.
Advertising by posters has become common, and in most
of the larger cities and towns throughout this country and
Canada one or more local concerns follow the business of
displaying them. Usually advertisers contract with a
lithographer directly or through agents (solicitors) such
as plaintiffs for the manufacture or purchase of posters,
and with the local billposter for displaying them. Often
the lithographer does business in a different State from
the advertiser and both operate in different States- from
those where most of the billboards are located. Some
posters are prepared for the exclusive use of an advertiser
and some (" stock" or "sample" ones) for general use.
Nearly all are put out by six or eight lithographers.

510 *

1OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

In 1891 many billposters throughout the United States
and Canada, theretofore in competition, entered into a
combination and conspiracy to monopolize the business in
their respective localities and to dominate and control all
trade and commerce in posters within such limits. To
that end they organized a "vohintary association-afterwards incorporated--whose membership is now very
large.
The -following were among the -means adopted for carrying out the purposes of the combination and conspiracy.
(a) Membership has been restricted to one employing
billposter in each town or city and members have been
prohibited from competing with each other. (b) Funds
have been furnished to members for buying out competitors. (c) Rules prevent members accepting certain work
from an advertiser who has given business to a -nonmem-.
ber. (d) A schedule of prices has been fixed and mem-.
bers have been prohibited from accepting certain kinds of
work from any one except solicitors (twelve in all) arbitrarily selected'and licensed, who are forbidden to patronize a nonmember in any place where any member does
business. (e) By threats of withdrawal of patronage,
,manufacturers have been prevented from furnishing posters to independent billlosters or to advertisers desiring to
do business with independents except upon prohibitive
terms.
The Association's membership has become large, its
powers and influence great, while the number of independent billpostei's has greatly declined, and it is nov
practically impossible for an advertiser to utilize posters
except by employing members of the Association ard,
upon terms arbitrarily fixed. Advertisers are not perirdtted to purchase '"stock" posters unless willing to have
them displayed upon boards of members, and independent
billposters cannot purchase such matter at all.
Plaintiffs had developed a-lucrative and profitable business when in July, 1911, the Association caficeled their

RAMSAY CO. v. BILL POSTERS ASSN.
501

511

Opinion of the Court.

licenses and refused to renew the same. Now, as a result
of the defendants' unlawful acts, they are disabled from
competing in the markets and their business is restricted
and unprofitable.
The court below held: "The business of the solicitors
is to send their customers' advertisements to be posted on
billboards in various towns and cities throughout the
country. Assuming that this business is, as between
them and their customers, interstate commerce, we are
clear that, after the posters have arrived t destination,
the posting of them by the bill poster is a purely local
service, not directly affecting, but merely incidental to,
interstate commerce. We think this follows from the
decision of the Supreme Court in Hopkins v. 'United
States, 171 U. S.578."
We cannot accept.this view, The alleged combination
is nation-wide; members of the Association are bound by
agreement to pursue a certain course of business, designed
and probably adequate materially to interfere with the
free flow of commerce among the States and with Canada.
As a direct result of the defendants' joint acts plaintiffs'
interstate and foreign business has been greatly limited
or destroyed. Hopkins v. United States is not applicable.
There the holding was that the rules, regulations and
practices of the association directly affected local business
only. The purpose of the combination here challenged
is to destroy competition and secure a monopoly by limiting and restricting commerce in posters to channels dictated by the confederates, to exclude from such trade the
undesired, including the plaintiffs, and to enrich the members by demanding noncompetitive prices. The allegations clearly show the result has been as designed, that
the statute has been violated and plaintiffs' business has
suffered.
This Court has heretofore laid down and adequately
discussed the applicable principles. Montague & Co. v.
Lowry, 193 U. S.38, 45, 46; Swift & Co. v. United States,

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the; Case.

260 U. S.

196 U- S. 375, 396 Loewe v Lawlor 208 U S. 274 293,
et seq., Gompers v, Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U S.
418, 438, Eastern States Retail Lumber Dealers' Assocuatton y United States, 234 U S. 60, 009. See also: United
States v Associated Bill Posters, 235 Fed. 540. The
fundamaental purpose of the Sherman Act was to secure
equality of opportunity and to protect the public against
evils commonly incident to destruction of competition
through monopolies and -combinations in restramt of
trade. The alleged actioois of defendants are directly
opposed to this beneficent -purpose and are denounced by
the statute.
We find no adequate support for the clain that plaintiffs were parties to. the combination of which they now
complain.
Reversed.
GREENPORT BASIN & CONSTRUCTION COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO AND, APPEAL FROIX THE DISTRICT, COURT OF THE
UNITED

STATES TOR THE EASTERN

DISTRICT OFI NEW

YORK.

No. 31. Argued November 17 1922..--Decided .January 2, 1923.
1. A judgment of the District Court in an action against thet nited&
States under Jud. Code, §, 24, par. 20, to recover taxes paid under.
protest, is reviewable here by writ of error., P -514.
2. In computing the 'excess profits tax imposd by the Act of October
3, 1917 c.- 63, 40 Stat. 300, the exaction prescribed by § 201 is to
be imposed, in its successive stages, upon the entire net income,
except that, from the part of the net income prescribed for the
first stage, the allowances made by-§ 203 are to be deducted. So
held, where the allowances were less than 15. per cent. of the
mvested capital. P .514.
269 Fed. 58, affirmed.'

ERROR to and appeal fromn a judgment of the District
Court sustaining a, demurrer and -dismissing the complaint
m an action againsf the United States to recover.taxes.

