McKELVEY v. UNITED STATES,

353

Opinion of the Court.

McKELVEY ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 106. Argued November 21, 1922.-Decided December 4, .1922.
1. An indictment founded on a general statutory provision defining
the offense need not negative the matter of an exception made by
a-proviso or other distinct clause, whether in the same section or
elsewhere. P. 356.
2. The third section of the Act of February 25, 1885, c. 149, 23
Stat. 321, providing that "no person, by force, threats, intimidation"
or by any fencing or inclosing, or any other unlawful means,
. . . shall prevent or obstruct free passage or transit over or
through the public lands," applies to transient acts of force and
intimidation as well as continuing obstacles such as a fence or the
maintenance of an armed patrol. P. 57.
3. Punishment for offenses defined by the above act is not confined by
the fourth section to persons acting as "owner, part owner or
agent." P. 357.
4. Congress has power to punish intentional obstruction to free passage over the public lands within a State accomplished by acts of
violence, and its exercise works no interference with the power of
the State to punish the acti of violence as such. P. 358.
273 Fed. 410, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming a convictioi ih the District Court under
an indictment for unlawful prevention and obstruction of
free passage over the public lands.

Mr. Solon B. Clark, with whom Mr. Ralph W. Adair
and Mr. Chase A. Clark were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. H. L. Underwood, with whom Mr. Solicitor.General
Beck was on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVAwTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The five petitioners were indicted, tried and convicted
in t e Distrjc Court of the United States for the District
45646-23---23

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

of Idaho upon a charge of unlawfully preventing and obstructing, by means of force, threats and intimidation,
free passage over and through certain unoccupied public
lands of the United States by designated persons,--they
*being the three employees hereinafter mentioned. The
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment. 273
Fed. 410. A writ of certiorari brings the case here.
The record purports to contain the substance of the
evidence in chief presented by the United States, but not
the evidence produced by the defendants nor that of the
United States in rebuttal. That which it does contain
tends strongly to establish the following case:
In August, 1919, the owners of a band of sheep then
about 30 miles northwest of Mackay, Idaho, committed to
three employees the task of driving the sheep to a range
on the other side of Mackay. A part of the route lay
over unoccupied public lands of the United States in relative proximity to a stream, called Lost River. In that
vicinity there were two well -known trails. One, recently
established," passed on the east side of the river, and the
other, theretofore used by the owners of the sheep, p;issed
on the west side. The employees took the latter trail and,
while following it in the usual way of driving sheep, were
met by some of the defendants, who insisted that the
lands thereabouts were used as a cattle range and demanded that the sheep be not driven along that trail, but
taken to the trail on the other side of the river, four or
five miles away. This occurred about eleven o'clock i.
the forenoon of August 25th, when it was very warm.
One of the employees answered that the sheep should be
permitted to rest until it became cooler and that'the3
could not be taken across the river without an order fro'i
one of the owners. Such of the defendants as were pres
ent then pointed out a place where the sheep could-be held
'Presumably under § 10 of the Act of December 29, 1916, c. 9, 39
Stat. 862.

McKELVEY v. UNITED STATES.
353

355

Opinion of the Court.

in the shade and went away. About four o'clock in the
afternoon some of the defendants returned and demanded
that the sheep be moved to the other side of the river
right away. T 9 this the answer was made that instruetions had been received, presumably by telephone, from
one of the owners to await his coming, which would be
later in the day. One of the defendants then requested
his comrades to line up with their rifles, which they did,
whereupon he proceeded to make a hostile demonstration
against one of the employees and to chase him about, obviously as a matter of intimidation. These defendants
then went away. That evening one of the owners arrived
and directed that the driving be continued along the trail
on which the employees were proceeding,--it being "the
trail we always used" and "about three miles wide.'
Early the next morning, before the employees started the
sheep again, one of the defendants returned and inquired
what was going to be done and, on learning what the
owner had directed, said: "You can't go through there."
"Something will happen to you this morning." "Are you
willing to take the 'consequences?" This defendant then
rode away and a little later others of them rode up on a
gallop, ordered the employees to put up their hands,
which was done, and then began shooting. . They shot-and
seriously injured one of the employees, threatened to
finish him, and did other things calculated to put all three
in terror. The defendants then moved-two of the employees and the sheep to the other side of the river and
.took the wounded employee to a hospital. While-some
of the defendants were present, at one time and some at
another, the circumstances were such that what was done
was the act of all. The lands through which ihis trail extended and over which the employees intended to drive
the sheep were unoccupied public lands of the United
States. The purpose of the defendants in all that they

,356

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 13. S.

did Was to prevent the employees from proceeding with
the sheep over those lands. The lands were comprised in
two townships, each six miles square, and within these
townships were several small tracts-a minor part of the
whole-which were claimed and held by individuals under
the public land laws; but the trail did not pass over these
small tracts nor were the'employees driving or intending
to drive the sheep over them.
The indictment.was founded on §§ 3 and 4 of the Act
of February 25, 1885, c. 149, 23 Stat. 321, which read as
follows:
"Sec. 3. That no person, by force, threats, intimidation, or by any fencing or inclosing, 6r any other unlawful
means, shall prevent or obstruct, or shall combine and
,pnfederate with others to prevent or obstruct, any person from peaceably entering upon or establishing a settlement or residence on any tract of public land subject to
settlement or entry under the public land laws of the
United States, or shall prevent or obstruct free passage or
transit over or through the public lands: Provided, This
section shall not be held to affect the right or title of
persons, who have gone upon, improved or occupied said
lands under the land laws of the United States, claiming
title thereto, in good faith.
" Sec. 4. That any person violating any of the provisions hereof, whether as owner, part owner, agent, or who
shall aid, abet, counsel, advise, or assist in any violation
hereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and fined
in a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars and be imprisoned not exceeding one year for each offence."
The indictment was challefiged on several grounds by
A demurrer and a motion in arrest of judgment, both of
which were overruled; and error is assigned on these
rulings.
One ground of objection is that the indictment contains
no showing that tbe accused were not within the excep-

McKELVEY v. UNITED STATES.
353

Opinion of the Court.

tion made in the proviso to "§ 3. This is not a valid
ground. By repeated decisions it has come to be a settled
rule in this jurisdiction that an indictment or other pleading founded on a genpral provision defining the elements
of an offen§e, or of a right conferred, need not negative
the matter of an exception made by a proviso or other
distinct clause, whether in the same section or elsewhere,
and that it is incumbent on one who relies on such an
exception to set it up and establish it. Schlemner v.
Buffalo, Rochester & Pittsburg Ry. Co., 205 U. S. 1, 10;
Javierre v. Central Altagracia, 217 U. S. 502, 508, and
cases cited.
Another ground is that the words of § 3, "or shall
prevent or obstruct free passage or transit over or throirgh'
the public lands," refer to a continuing.obstacle to passage or transit in general, such as a fence or the maintenance of an armed patrol, and not to a transient obstacle
to passage or transit by particular persons on a particular
occasion, such as is charged here. We think this ground
is not tenable. The words "by force, threats, intimidation, or by any fencing or inclosing, or any other unlawful
means" are as comprehensive of transient means of obstruction as of continuing or relatively permanent means.
Besides, it is "free" passage or transit that is to be
unobstructed.. Passage or transit is free in the sense intended when it is open to all. When some withhold it
from others, whether ,permanently or temporarily, it is
not free.
A third ground is that under § 4 the only punishable
offenses are those wherein the offender acts as owner,
part owner or agent, and that this indictment does not
show that any of the defendants were so acting. This
ground is without merit. While § 4 is not happily
worded, there is no difficulty in getting at its -meaning.
It is the penal section and broadly fixes the punishment
for the several acts made unlawful by the other sections.

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U.S.

Some of the proscribed acts involve an assertion of a
groundless right to the exclusive use and occupancy of
public lands, a right which the offender might be asserting
in his own behalf, or in behalf of himself and another, or
in behalf of others whom he serves as agent. But in
several of the proscribed acts there is no such element.
The offense charged here is of the latter class. With this
understanding of the acts made unlawful by the other
sections, it is apparent that the words "whether as owner,
part owner, agent" in § 4 are intended merely to make
sure that offenders acting as owners, part owners or agents
are brought within the penal provision, and not to exclude
other offenders therefrom or to absolve them from punishment.
It also is contended that § 3, when construed as we
construe it, transcends the power of Congress and encroaches on the police power of the States. This contention proceeds on the assumption that the section, so construed, deals with acts of personal violence which do not
affect the public lands'or the rights of the United States
in them. But this is a mistaken assumption. The section in terms, and as we construe it, deals with the
obstruction by unlawful means of free passage over the
public lands. It makes no attempt at dealing with acts
of personal violence as such. Only when and as they are
made the means--resorted to for the purpose--of effecting
the prohibited obstruction does it take any account of
them. The power of the State to deal with and punish
them is not affected. -Such acts may be an ingredient of
an offense against the United States and also in themselves
an offense against the State. The following excerpt from
Moore V. Ilinois,. 14 How. 13, 20, is pertinent:
"The same act may be an offence or transgression of
the laws of -both. Thus, an assault upon the marshal of
the United States, and hindering him in the execution of
legal process, is a high offence against the United States,

McKELVEY v. UNITED STATVS.
353

Opinion of the Court.

for which the perpetrator is liable to punishment;'and the
same act may be also a gross breach of the peace of the
State, a riot, assault, or a murder, and subject the same
person to a punishment, under the State laws, for a mis-"
demeanor or felony. That either or both may (if they
see fit) punish such an offender, cannot be doubted. Yet
it cannot be truly averred that the offender has been twice
punished for the same offence; but only that by .one act
he has committed two offences, for- each of which he is
justly punishable."
It is firmly settled that Congress may prescribe rules
respecting the use of the public lands. It- may sanction
some uses and prohibit others, and may forbid interference with such as are sanctioned. Camfield v. United
States, 167 U. S.518, 525; United States v. Grimaud,220
U. S.506, 521; Light v. United States, 220 U. S. 523, 536;
Utah Power & Light Co. v. United States, 243 ,U. S. 389,
404-405. The provision now before us is but an exertion'
of that power. It does no more than to sanction -free
passage over the public lands and to make the obstruction
thereof< by unlawful means a punishable offense.
It also is settled that the States may prescribe police"
regulations applicable to public land areas, so long as the
regulations are not arbitrary or inconsistent with applicable congressional enactments. Among the regulations
to which the state power extends are quarantine rules and
measures to prevent breaches of the peace and unseemly
clashes between persons privileged to go upon or use such
areas.
Two regulations of the" latter type by the State of
Idaho have been sustained by this Court,-one making it
unlawful to herd sheep or permit them to graze within
two mileg-df the dwelling house of another having a possessory claim to the land whereon the house stands, Bacon
v. Walker, 204 U. S.311, and the other making it unlawful to herd sheep or permit them to graze on a range which

360

OCTOIWR TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

260 U. S.

by prior usage has come to be a-cattle range, Omaechevarria v. Idaho, 246 U. S. 343. As construed by the Supreme Court of the State, these regulations are not intended to cover the driving, of sheep from one range to
another, nor such occasional grazing as is done by the
sheep while being driven or during temporary stops for
needed rest or similar'purposes. In view of the instructions to the jury in'this case the verdict must be taken as
finding that there was no herding or grazing here which
was forbidden by these regulations.
Complaint is made of several rulings on the trial, but
we think all were right. As to some the complaint is disposed of by what has been said, and as to the others it is
so wanting in substance- that it does not call for special
notice.
,
Judgment affirmed.
AMERICAN MILLS COMPANY v. AMERICAN
SURETY COMPANY OF NEW YORK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 118. Argued November 24,-1922.-Decided December 11, 1922.
1. In a suit to cancel a written guaranty f6r fraud, the defence that
the plaintiff has an adequate remedy at law by defending actions
brought by the defendant on the guaianty, is waived by the'defendant where, -without insisting upon it as he might, he introduces
proof, under a counterclaim for the amount of the guaranty, putting
the instrument in evidence. P. 363.
2. The provision of Equity Rule 30, that the answer must state any
counterclaim arising out of the transaction which is the subjectmatter bf the suit, applies only to equitable, not to legal, claims.
P. 363.
,273 Fed. 67, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
affirming a decree of the District Court which canceled a
written guaranty for fraud.

