18

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

Supreme Court of North Carolina. Lane v. Southern
Ry. Co., 182 N. Car. 774; Barbee v. North CarolinaR. R.
Co., 182 N. Car. 775.
.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. WONG SING.'
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF UTAH.
No. 44. Argued October 11, 1922.-Decided October 28, 1922.
1. Under the Revenue Act of February 24, 1919, e. 18, ยง 1006, 40
Stat. 1130, in order that a person may be liable criminally as a
purchaser of narcotic drugs it is not necessary that he be of the
class who must register and pay special taxes. P. 20.
2. The act, as so construed, is constitutional, within the revenue
power. P. 21.
Reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court quashing an
indictment upon demurrer.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
No appearance for defendant in error.

MR JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Error 'to review the action of the District Court in
dismissing an indictment against defendant in error. The
indictment was in two counts. The first count charged
that Wong Sing feloniously had in his possession, and
under his control, at a specified date, certain derivatives
and preparations of morphine and -cocaine for the purpose of sale and distribution, he 'not being registered
under the provisiQns of the Act of Congress, approved

UNITED STATES v. WONG SING.
18

Opinion of the Court.

December 17, 1914; c. 1, 38 Stat. 785, and its amendments, and not having paid the special tax required by
the act.1
The second count charged that Wong Sing, at a specified date and time on such date, and .at a specified place
in Salt Lake City, within the jurisdiction of the court,
knowingly, wilfully, unlawfully and feloniously purchased
from a person or persons unknown to the grand jurors,
morphine, and cocaine, the exact quantity being unknown
to the grand jurors; the said drugs not-being in the original stamped packages, or from the original stamped packages; he not having then and there obtained the drugs
from a registered dealer in pursuance of a prescription,
written for legitimate medical uses by a practitioner registered under the Act of December 17, 1914, and its
amendments; and the purchase not being by a patient
from a registered practitioner in the course of his professional practice, and he, Wong Sing, not being then
and there registered under the provisions of the act of
Congress, and not having then and there, or theretofore,
or at all, paid the special tax provided by the act; contrary
to the form of the statute in such case made and provided, and against the peace and dignity of the United
States of America.
Wong Sing, upon being arraigned, pleaded not guilty,
but subsequently withdrew the plea and demurred to the
indictment "for failure to state an offense, and being
insufficient." The demurrer was sustained and he was
discharged from all liability thereon.
The court made a certificate, to be pqrt of the record
and proceedings, that the first ,count of the indictment
* was based upon ยง 8 of the Act of Congress of December
17, 1914, commonly called the Harrison Anti-Narcotic
lCobunsel for the United States say that only the second count is
material on this writ of error.

the representation of the case.

The first count, however, is a part of

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

Act, and that he sustained the demurrer to that. count
upon the authority of United States v. Jin Fuey Moy,
241- U. S. 394. And the court further certified that the
second count -of the indictment, was based upon the
amended Harrison Anti-Narcotic Act, contfaied in ยง 1006
of the Revenue Act of February 24, 1919, c. 18, 40 Stat.
1130,, and that the count was predicated upon the following provisions: "It- shall be unlawful for any person to"purchase, sell, dispense, or distribute any of the
aforesaid dfugs except in the original stamped package
orlIromi the original stamped package... "; and that he
construed "the word ' person' in the foregoing language
to mean- the persons enumerated- in the first paragraph
of' section 1006, namely, '-every person who imports,
manufactures, produces, compounds, sells, deals in, dis-"
penses, or gives away opium or coca leaves,. or any compound,, manufacture, salt, derivative, or preparation
thereof, shall register with' the collector .of internal reve.nue of the districthis name or style, place of business
and place or! places. where such business is to be carried
on, and pay the special taxes. hereinafter provided.'"
-The demurrer was sustained, it was further certified,
because the second count contained no appropriate allegation giving effect to the word "person" and hence
fell within the ruling in the Jin Fuey Moy Case; otherwise, it was said, the amendment would be unconstitutionaL And further, that the demurrer was treated as
presenting that question of cofistruction and was sustained only for that reason."
The construction by the court of ยง 1006 constitutes the
question in the case. - It is attacked by the United States
as not:justified, and United States v. Doremus, 249 U. S.
86; 'and Webb v. United States, 249 U. S. 96, are cited
We are unable to concur with the District Court. The
provisions qudted 'by the court have a certain relation,
but they have also a certain independence. The first

UNITED STATES v. WONG SING.
18

Opinion of the Court.

makes it. "unlawful for any person to purchase" the
drugs; the second enumerates other persons who have a
larger connection with the drugs and requires them to register the fact and pay the tax prescribed. There could
be no object in requiring a purchaser of the .drugs to register but it fulfilled the purpose of the law to forbid 'a
purchase "except in the original stamped package or from
the original stamped package." The requirement fortifies the other injunctions of the statute.
In United States v. Doremus, and Webb v. United
States, it was decided that the power of Congress- exerted
through the Act of 1914, though the act might be denominated a revenue measure, could, as a complement to it,
make criminally unlawful the sale, barter or exchange of
narcotic drugs except under certain prescribed conditions"
designed to make it effective as a revenue measure. The
principle of the decision applies to the Act of 1919, upon
which count two is based. If the law can put conditions
upon sellers, it can put conditions with a like purpose
upon purchasers,, which is done here. Therefore, the
apprehension of the District Court, if it should be so held,
that the act would be unconstitutional under the decision
in United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394, was
not justified. There is another distinction between the
Jin Fuey Moy Case and this. In that case, which was
under the Act of 1914, it was intimated that the persons
affected by the act received definition from the requirement of registration. This case is under the Act of 1919,
and it, as we have said, does not require registration.
It follows that the judgment of the District Court must
be and it is,
Reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings
in accordance with this opinion.

