178

OCTOBER TERM; 1922.
Statement of the Case.

260 U. S.

TAKAO OZAWA v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF IAPPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 1. Argued October 3, 4, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. Section 2169 of the Revised Statutes, which is part of Title XXX
dealing with naturalization, and which -declares: "The provisions
of this Title shall apply to aliens, being free white persolis, and to
aliens of African nativit9 and to persons of African descent," is
consistent with the Naturalization Act of June 29, 1906, and was
not imnpliedly repealed by it. P. 192.
2. Revised Statutes, § 2169, supra, stands as a limitation upon the
Naturalization Act, and not merely upon those other provisions
of Title XXX which remain unrepealed. P. 192.
3. The. intent of legislation is to be ascertained primarily by giving
words their natural significance; but if this leads to an unreasonable result plainly at variance with the policy of the legislation as
a whole, the court must look to the reason of the enactment, inquiring into its antecedents, and give it effect in accordance with
its design and purpose, sacrificing, if necessary, the literal meaning,
in order that the purpose may not fail. P. 194.
4. The term 'fvhit6 person," as used in Rev. Stats., -§2169, and in
all the earlier naturalization laws, beginning in 1790, applies to such
persons as were known in this country as "white," in thie racial
sense, when it was first adopted, and is confined to persons of the
Cauasian Race. P. 195.
-5. The effect of the conclusion that "white person" means a Caucasian is mefely to establish a zone on one side of which are those
clearly eligible, and on the other those clearly ineligible, to citizenship; individual cases within this zone must be determined as
they arise. P. 198.
6. A Japanese, born in Japan, being clearly not a Caucasian, cannot
be made a citizen of the United States under Rev. Stats., § 2169,
and the Naturalization Act. P. 198.

QUESTIONS certified by the court below, arising upon
an appeal to it from a judgment of the District Court of
Hawaii which dismissed a petition for naturalization.
The case was argued with Yamnashita v. Hinkle, post, 199,
and was decided at the same time.

OZAWA v. UNITED STATES.
178

Argument for Ozawa.

Mr. George W. Wickersham, with whom Mr. David
L. Withington was on the briefs, for Takao Ozawa.
The Act of June 29, 1906, establishes a uniform rule of
naturalization, and that rule is not controlled or modified by § 2169, Rev. Stats.
The constitutional grant of power, the title of he act,
its scope and terms, show that, save in definitely excepted
cases, it is a complete, exclusive and uniform rule of
naturalization.
Congress exercised this power in the first Congress, second session, and passed the Act of March 26, 1790, 1
Stat. 103, entitled, "An Act to establish an uniform rule
of naturalization." This act was repealed by a like act
with a like title in 1795, and that by the Act of April 14,
1802, 2 Stat. 153, which in turn was entitled, "An Act
to establish an uniform rule of naturalization." This in
turn became Title XXX of the Revised Statutes, which
comprised the uniform rule of naturalization until the
passage of the Act of June 29, 1906, which purports to
be and is entitled, "An Act To establish a Bureau of
Immigration and Naturalization, and to provide for, a
uniform rule for the naturalization of aliens throughout
the United States."
This act purports to be a complete act. It provides,
in § 3, for exclusive jurisdiction of naturalizing aliens,
and in § 4, "'that any alien may be admitted to become a
'citizen of the United States in the following manner, and
not otherwise;." followed by five paragraphs prescribing
the conditions of admission, among them, in paragraph
two, that the petition shall set forth "every fact material
to his naturalization and required to be proved upon the
final hearing of his application." In § 27 the form of this
petition is given, containing the allegations which Congress believed 'vere "material to his naturalization and
required to be proved;" but nothing with reference to
color or race.

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for zawa.

260 U. S.

The intent of Congress to enact, and its belief that
it had enacted, a uniform rule for naturalization, covering the entire subject and even giving to the rulesand
regulations the force of law, are clear. In re Brefo,
217 Fed. 131; United States v. Rodiek, 162 Fed. 469;
Bessho v. United States; 178 Fed. 245; In re Leichtag,
211 Fed. 681; In re Mallari, 239 Fed. 416; Hampden
County v. Morris, 207 Mass. 167; United States v. Ginsberg, 243 U. S. 472; IUnited States v. Ness, 245 U. S. 319;
United States v. Peterson, 182 Fed. 289, 291.
The unrepealed sections of Title XXX and a few other
special acts provide for naturalization in cases excepted
from the uniform-law. In re Kumagai, 163 Fed. 922;
In,re Loftus, 165 Fed. 1002; United States v. Meyer, 170
Fed. 983; In re McNabb, 175 Fed. 511; In re Leichtag,
supra; United States v. Lengyel, 220 Fed. 720; In re
Sterbuck, 224 Fed. 1013; In re Tancrel, 227 Fed. 329.
Section 2169 is not restrictive in terms, and if restrictive only applies to Title XXX, Rev. Stats., and the
cases excepted from, the general rule. Section 2169, as
originally enacted, is an enlarging provision, derived from
the Act of 1870, c. 254, 16 Stat. 256, which extended the
naturalization' laws :to aliens of African nativity and to
persons of African descent. It is .not a restrictive
declaration; and the introduction into it of the words
"being free white persons and to aliens," by the Act of
1875, c. 80, 18 Stat. 318 does not change the provision
from an enlarging to a restrictive one. There is nothing
in the language used'to show the intention of Congress
to-restrict naturalization to free white persons and Africans by this amendment of 1875.
If construed otherwise, naturalization from the passage
of the Revised Statutes to the amendatory Act of 1875,
would have been restricted to those of African nativity or.
descent.
The Chinese Exclusion Act of May 6, 1882, c. 126, § 14,
22 Stat. 58, 61,-passed after it had been held that the

OZAWA v. UNITED STATES.
178

Argument for Ozawa.

language of § 2169 excluded the Chinese, In re Ah Yup, 5
Sawy. 155; and.ahalf Indian, In re Camille, 6 Fed. 256,supports this view. In any event, § 2169 is applicable
only to Title XXX and does not apply to the Act of June
29, 1906.
The origin of the Act of 1906 shows that it was intended to be a complete scheme for naturalization, the
test being "fitness for' citizenship," with no discrimination
against Japanese. Message of President Roosevelt, December 5, 1905, 40 Cong. Rec., pt. 1, p. 99. This policy,*
announced by President Roosevelt, has been steadily followed in legislation in respect both to naturalization and
immigration, including the Immigration Act of 1917.
These acts show the traditional policy of the United
States to welcome aliens, modified only by restrictions
against contract laborers, those morally, mentally and
physically unfit for citizenship and the Chinese,.but with
no restrictions against the Japanese race.
Numerous Chinese Exclusion Acts have been passed;
but there is no line in any statute before or since 1875
which indicates any intention to classify the Japanese
with Ghose excluded or to discriminate against them in
any. way.
This Court in a recent case, in reviewing the history
of the Immigration Acts, has held that the purpose of
applying these prohibitions against the admission of
aliens is to exclude classes (with the possible exception
of contract laborers) who are undesirable as members of
the community, even if previously domiciled in the
United States. Lapina v. Williams, 232 U. S. 78; In re
Gee Hop, 71 Fed. 274-275.
The Immigration Act of 1917, and the circumstances of
its passage in Congress, show the clear intention of that
body to make no declaration that Japanese are excluded
from naturalization. Any other construction would be
violative 6f the existing treaty with Japan.

.182

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for zawa.

260 U. S.

The Act of May 9, 1918, amending the Act of June 29,
1906, tends to support the view that § 2169 is only restrictive of Title XXX of which it is a part. No court, excepting Judge Lowell, In re Halladjian,174 Fed. 834, has
taken into consideration what that section plainly says.
Section 2169, if applicable to the Act of 1906, must be
construed like the Act of March 26, 1790, and, so construed, "free white persons" means one not black, not a
negro; which does not exclude Japanese.
At the time the original law was passed, which provided for the admission of "aliens being free white persons," there can be no question but white was used in
counterdistinction from black, and "free white persons"
included all who were not black. The latter were chiefly
slaves, regarded as an inferior race.
"White person," as construed by this Court and by
the state courts, means a person without negro blood.
United States v. Perryman, 100 U. S. 235; Dred Scott v.
Sandford, 19 How. 393, 420; Du Val v. Johnson, 39 Ark.
182, 192.
The primary definition of these words, as given by the
great dictionaries, is one who is white, not black, nor a
negro.
The insertion by Congress of the word "free " -in
§ 2169, in 1875, a word which had a definite meaning in
1790, but has no meaning if construed as a new enactment in 1875, shows the intention to regnact the old
section with the old meaning.
Giving the words "fre6 white persons" their common
and popular acceptation in 1875, no "uniform rule" can
be laid down, based on color, race or locality of origin,
and there is nothing in the laws of the United States, its
treaties, in the history of the time, or the proceedings of
Congress, to show that Japanese were intended to be excluded. Up to 1875, there had been no Japanese immigration, no suggestion of their exclusion.- America had

OZAWA v. UNITED STATES.
178

Argument for

zawa.

recently opened Japan to the western civilization, which
Japan was gladly welcoming.

Judicial construction of the phrase, up to 1875, does not
sustain such an exclusion. See Dred Scott and Du Val
Cases, supra; Lynch v. Clarke, 1 Sandf. 583;. People v.
Hall, 4 Cal. 399; People v. Elyea, 14- Cal. 145. Cf. 2
Kent's Comm., p. 72.
No "uniform rule," applicable in all cases, can be
drawn from the decisions since 1875. Low Wah Suey v.
Backus, 225 U. S. 460; In re Ah Yup, 5 Sawy. 155; In re
Hong Yen Chang, 84 Cal. 163; In re Po, 28 N. Y. S. 383;
In re Alverto, 198 Fed. 688; In re Mozumdar, 207 Fed.
115; In re Dow, 213 Fed. 355; Ex parte Shahid, 205'Fed.
812; In re Dow, 226 Fed: 145; United States v. Balsara,
180 Fed. 694; In re Camille, 6 Fed. 256; In re Mudarri,
176 Fed. 465; In re Saito, 62 Fed. 126; In re Kumagai,
163 Fed. 922; Bessho v. United States, 178 Fed. 245; In re
Knight, 171 Fed. 299; In re Yamashita, 30 Wash. 234; In
re Nian, 6 Utah, 259; In re Rodriquez, 81 Fed. 337.
The policy of the United States has been to include-into
its citizenship by annexation vast numbers of members
of races not Caucasian, including many Mongolians. The
annexation of Hawaii converted thousands of Japanese,
not to mention other nationalities, into American citizens.
The most recent is the Porto Rico Act, which makes the
Porto Ricans, who are as dark as the Japanese, American
citizens.
The petitioner in the court below presented an incomplete list of fourteen naturalizations in various courts,
and that court says it is understood that about, fifty
Japanese have been naturalized in state and federal
courts. In fact, the census of 1910 shows 209 American
born citizens, 420 naturalized, and 389 with first papers,
who are Japanese.
The words "free white persons," neither in their common and popular meahing, norin their scientific defini-

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Ozawa.

260 U. S.

tion, define a race or races, or prescribe a nativity or
locus of origin. They deal with personalities and the
qualities of personalities, and are only susceptible of
meaning. those persons fit for citizenship and of the kind
admitted to citizenship by the policy of the United
States. The Words deal with individuals, not with races,
nor with natives of any country -or of any particular
descent.
The word. "free" is an essential part of the clause.
Under the Constitution, it is used'in opposition to. slave.
It imports , freeman, a superior, as against an inferior
class.
"White" we have' already sufficiently defined, and
shown that the words "free white persons" had in 1875
acquired -a signification in American statute law as expressing a superior class as against a lower class, or, to
speak explicitly,' a class called "white" as against a class
called "black ";, the white man against the negr6.
"Person"' is "a living human being; a man; woman or
child; an individual of the human race." United States
v. Crook, 25 Fed. 'Cas. 695. The provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment in reference to, persons "are universal in the application to all persons within the territorial
jurisdiction without regard to any difference of race, or
color, or nationality." Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.
369. The same rule has been applied to include aliens
under the Fifth and Sixth Amendments. Wong Wing v.
United States, 163 U. S. 235.
No case has considered this point or given emphasis in
the construction of the section to the words "free" and
"persons," which are as important to the construction us
the word "white." Nearly all think the section deals
with races.
The question certified does not deal with individuals,
but with a people, and the affirmative answer would exclude a Japanese who' is "white" in color' and is of the
Caucasian type and race. '

OZAWA v. UNITED .STATES.
178

Argument for

zawa.

The Japanese are "free." They, or at least the dominant strains, are "white persons," speaking an Aryan
tongue and having Caucasian root stocks; a superior class,
fit for citizenship.
The Japanese are assimilable.
Congress in repeating without qualification the words
"white persons" has left the subject in great uncertainty.
All authorities without exception agree on dismissing the
idea of white as a characteristic to be demonstrated 'by
ocular inspection. If it is sought to interpret it as an
ethnological term, authorities are so conflicting that it
opens the way.to serious inequalities of application. To
apply the ambulatory definition which some of the
learned judges have adopted, is to rob the law of all
definiteness and to leave it to the whim of the particular
judge or court. The only safe rule to adopt is to take
the term as it undoubtedly was used when the naturalization law was first adopted, and construe it as embracing
all persons not black, until the Act of 1S70, and after
that date, as having no practical significance. If this
would run counter to the intention of Congress, that body
can readily amend the act so as to make clear the legislative intention. But the subject certainly should not be
left in the uncertain state in. which it now is.
So far as the petitioners in the Yamashita cs'e [post,
199,] are concerned, all that appears is that they were
born in Japan and that they were duly .naturalized by a/
state court in 1902. Every intendment of fact in favor
of the jurisdiction therefore must be presumed.. They
may have been pure blooded Ainos, and as such "Caucasian" within the meaning of that term, as employed
by most of the ethnologists and in a majority of the
decisions construing the term "white persons" to mean
those of the Caucasian -race, so that in any event the
judgment of the lower court must be reversed.

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for the United States.

"260 U.S.

Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Alfred A.
Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was
on the brief, for the United States.
The Act of June 29, 1906, is not complete in itself but
is limited in its application to the eligible classes of persons mentioned hi § 2169, Rev. Stats. At the time of the
passage of the Act of 1906, through a uniform course of
judicial construction of statutory language, continued in
the law for over a century, it had become settled that
Japanese and all other people not of the white or Caucasian race were not ,eligible for naturalization as "white
persons." In, re Ah Yup, 5 Sawy. 155; In re Hong Yen
Chang, 84 Cal. 163; In re Gee Hop, 71 Fed. 274; In re Po,
28 N. Y. S. 383; In re Nian, 6.Utah, 259; In re Camille,
6 Fed. 256; In re Burton, 1'Alaska, 111; In re Saito, 62
Fed. 126.
The Act of 1906 did not extend the privilege of naturalization to any persons not theretofore eligible. Section
2169, Rev. Stats., was not repealed, and was specifically
reaffirmed by the Act of May 9, 1918, c. 69, 40 Stat. 542,
making special provision for the naturalization of Filipinos, Porto Ricans, and aliens who served in the military
and naval forces of the United States. Petition of Chart,
273 Fed. 207, 210-212.
Since the passage of. the'Act of 1906, the courts without
exception have continued to hold that § 2169 was still
in force, its limitation still binding. In re Alverto, 198
Fed. 688; In re Kumagai, 163 Fed. 922; In re Knight, 171
Fed. 299; In re Young, 198 Fed. 715; Bessho v. United
States,. 178 Fed. 245; United States v. Balsara, 180 Fed.
'694; In re Yamashita, 30 Wash. 234; In re Dow, 226 Fed.
145; Petitionof Charr,273 Fed. 207; In re Halladjian,174
Fed. 834; In re Biutista, 45 Fed. 765; In re Singh, 257
Fed. 209; 246 Fed. 496; In re Lampitoe, 232 Fed. 382;
In re Mozumdar, 207 Fed. 115.
So the ultimate question is, is the Japanese a white
person, and it presents itself as a question of statutory

OZAWA v. UNITED STATES.
178

Argment for the United States.

construction. In the first place it is saia that we must
give to these words the meaning which they had in the
minds of the legislators of 1790, which is probably' true;
and that they were then used as a sort of "catchall" and
meant all men except Negroes and Indians, which is
surely untrue. It is undoubtedly true that the men of
1790 used the words as they understood them, and that
their purview of possible and probable immigration comprised only Negroes and white men. But there is no
warrant for believing that in their minds the whole
human race consisted of black men, red men, and white
men. To do so is to deny them the intelligence which
they surely possessed. But on the other hand, to argue
that they cast their eyes over the earth and considered the
races thereof, and then, with deliberation, chose to exclude Chinese, Japanese, and the other yellow and brown
peoples, is to give them credit for an imagination which
they did not have. To ascertain their intent, it is not
necessary to entangle one's common sense in a web of
theory. The men who settled this country were white
men from Europe and the men who fought the Revolutionary War, framed the Constitution and established the
Government, were white men from Europe and their
descendants. They were eager for more of their kind to
come, and it was to men of their own kind that they held
out the opportunity for citizenship in the new nation.
It is quite probable that no member of the first Congress
had ever seen a Chinese, Japanese or Malay, or knew
much about them beyond the fact that they were people
living in remote and almost inaccessible parts of the
world having manners, customs and language which
seemed strange, and unwilling to mingle with western
people. Chinese immigration to this country did not
begin until after the discovery of gold in California, and
the census of 1870 was the first to report Japanese, 55 in
number.

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for the Unitea States.

260 U. S.

It is a matter of common knowledge that for many
years Japap, and to a somewhat less degree, China, maintained a policy of isolation, and this policy continued
from the middle of the seventeenth century until the
Perry Expedition in 1853. American thought and statesmanship were directed toward Europe, not -toward Asia.
It was Europe and its "set of primary interests" with
which Washington was concerned in his farewell address,
and it was against interweaving our destiny with that of
any part of Europe, or entangling our peace and prosperity in the toils of European ambitions that he warned his
countrymen. It was European trade that was sought and,
beyond doubt, European immigration which was desired
and expected. Citizenship has always been deemed'a
choice possession, and it is not to be presumed that our
fathers regarded it lightly, to be conferred promiscuously,
according to a "catchall" classification. It could only
be obtained by those to whom it was given, and the men
of 1790 gave it -only to those whom they knew and regarded .as worthy to share it with them, men of their own
type, white men. This does not imply the drawing of
any narrow or bigoted racial lines, but a broad classification inclusive of all commonly called white and exclusive
of all not commonly so called. This has been the rule
followed by the courts, and the cases already 'cited, many
of which show exhaustive research and wealth of learn:
ing, leave very little to be said. A reading of the opinions
of the judgea who have written in these cases reveals
impressive unanimity in one :respect. Each person admitted, with the single exception of the. Filipino (In re
-,Bautista,supra, a special case), was admitted because he
was deemed as matter of.fact to be white; each person
refused was refused because he was deemed as matter of
fact not to be white. The ethnological discussions have
covered a wide range of most interesting subjects, particilarly in the border-line cases, the Syrian case (In re

OZAWA v. UNITED STATES.
178

Opinion of the Court.

Dow, 226 Fed. 145), and the Armenian case (In re
Halladjian,174 Fed. 834). But the present case can not
be regarded as a doubtful case. The Japanese is not, and
never has been, regarded as white or of the race of white
people.
While the views of ethnologists have changed in details
from time to time, it is safe to say that the classification,
of the Japanese as-members of the yellow race is practically the unanimous view. Unless it could be demonstrated that the Japanese were of the white race, ethnological differences would be unimportant, even if otherwise relevant.
Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of the State of California, and Mr. Frank English, by leave of court, filed a'
brief as amici curiae.
MR. JUsTIcE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The appellant is a person of the Japanese race born in
Japan. He applied, on October 16, 1914, to the United
States District Court for the Territory of Hawaii to be
admitted as a citizen of the United States. His petition
was opposed by the United States District Attorney for
the District of Hawaii. Including the period of his residence in Hawaii, .appellant had continuously resided in
the United States for twenty years. He was a graduate
of the Berkeley, California, High School, had been nearly
three years a student in the University of Californi, had
educated his children in Americaa schools; his family had
attended American churches and he had maintained the
use of the -English language in his home. That he was
well qualified by character and education for citizenship
is conceded.
The District Court of Hawaii, however, held that, having been born in Japan and being of the Japanese race,

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
.

Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

he was not eligible. to naturalization under § 2169 of the
I evised Statutes, and denied the petition. Thereupon
the appellant brought the cause to the Circuit Court of
Appeals f6r the Ninth Circuit and that court has certifiedthe following questions, upon vhich it desires to be instructed:
" 1. -Is the Act of June 29, 1906 (34 Stats. at Large,
Part I, Page 596), providing 'for a uniform rule for the
naturalization of aliens' complete in itself, or is it limited
by Section 2169 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States?
"2. Is one who is of the Japanese race and born -in
Japan eligible to citizenship under the Naturalization
laws?
3. If said Act of June 29, 1906, is limited by said
Section 2169 and naturalization is limited to aliens being
free white persons and to aliens of African nativity and
to persons of African descent, is one of -the Japanese race,'
bofn in Japan, under any circumstances eligible to naturalization?"
These questions f.r purposes of discussion may be
briefly restated:
1. Is the Naturalization Act of June 29, 1906, limited
by the provisions of § 2169 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States?
2. If so limited, is the appellant eligible to naturalization under that section?
First. Section 2169 is found in Title XXX of the Revised Statutes, under the heading "Naturalization," and
reads as follows:
"The provisions of this Title shall apply to aliens, being
free white persons, and to. aliens of African nativity and
to persons of African descent."
. The Act of June 29, 1906, entitled "An Act To establish a Bureau of Immigration and Naturalization, and to
,provide for a uniform rule for the naturalizatioh of aliens

OZAWA v. UNITED STATES.
178

Opinion of the Court.

throughout the United States ", consists of thirty-one sections and deals primarily with the subject of procedure.
There is nothing in the circumstances leading up to or
accompanying the passage of the act which suggests that
any modification of § 2169, or of its application, was contemplated.
The report of the House Committee on Immigration
and Naturalization, recommending its passage, contains
this statement:
"It is the opinion of your committee that the frauds
and crimes which have been committed in regard to naturalization have resulted more from the lack of any uniform system of procedure in such matters than from any
radical defect in the fundamental principles of existing
law governing in such cases. The two changes which the
committee has recommended in the principles controlling
in naturalization matters, and which are embodied in the
bill submitted herewith are as follows: First. The requirement that before an alien can be naturalized he must
be able to write either in his own language or in the English language, and read, speak, and understand the English
language; and, Second. That the alien must intend 'to
reside permanently in the United States before he shall be
entitled to naturalization." House Report No. 1789, 59th
Cong., 1st sess., p. 3.
This seems to make it quite clear that no change of the
fundamental character here involved was in mind.
Section 26 of the act expressly repeals §§ 2165, 2167,
2168, 2173 of Title XXX, the subject-matter thereof
being covered by new provisions. The sections of Title
XXX remaining without repeal are: Section 2166, relating to honorably discharged soldiers; § 2169, now under
consideration; § 2170, requiring five years' residence pior
to admissiQn; § 2171, forbidding the admission of alien
enemies; § 2172, relating to the status of children of naturalized persons, and § 2174, rnaking special provision in
respecteof the naturaliztioii ofeainen.

i

192

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

There is nothing in § 2169 which is repugnant to anything in the Act of 1906. Both may stand and be given
-effect. It is clear, therefore, that there is no repeal by
implication.
But it is insisted by appellant that §-2169, by'its terms
is made applicable only to the provisions of Title XXX
and that it will not admit of being construed as a restriction upon the Act of .1906. Since .§ 2169, it is in effect
argued, -declares that "the provisions of this Title shall
apply 'to aliens, being free white persons
i.t
should be confined to the classes provided for in the unrepealed sections of that title, leaving -the Act of 1906
to govern in respect of all other, aliens, without any
restriction except such as may be imposed by that act
itself.
It is contended that thus construed the Act of 1906 con-.
fers the pfivilege of naturalization without limitation as
to -race, since the, general introductory words of § 4 are:
"That an alien may be admitted to become a citizen of
the United States in the following manner and not otherwise." -But, obviously, this clause does not relate to the
subject of eligibility :but to. the "mannek," that is the
procedure, to' b6 followed. I xactly the same words are
used to introduce the similar provisions contained in § 2165.
of the Revised Statutes. In 1790 the first Naturalizatibn
Act provided that, "Any-alien, being a free white person,
.*.
may be admitted to become a citizen,
"
C. 3, 1 Stat. 103. This was subsequently enlarged to
include aliens of African nativity and persons of African descent. These provisions were restated in the Revised Statutes, so that § 2165 included only the procedural
portion, while the substantive parts were carried into a
separate section (2169) and the words "An alien" substituted for the words "Any alien."
In all of the Naturalization Acts from 1790 to 1906 the
privilege of naturalization was confined to white persons
*

OZAWA v. UNITED STATES.
178

193

Opinion of the Court.

(with the addition in 1870 of those of African nativity
and descent), although the exact wording of the various
statutes was not always the same. If Congress in 1906
desired to alter a rule so well and so long established, it
may be assumed that its purpose would have been definitely disclosed and its legislation to that end put in
unmistakable terms.
The argument that because § 2169 is in terms made applicable only to the title in which it is found, it should now
be confined to the -unrepealed sections of that title is
not convincing. The persons entitled to naturalization
under these unrepealed sections include only honorably
discharged soldiers and seamen who have served three
years on board an American vessel, both of whom were
entitled from the beginning to admission on more generous terms than were accorded to other aliens. It is not
conceivable that Congress would deliberately- have allowed the racial limitation to continue as to soldiers and
seamen to whom the statute had accorded an especially
favored status, and have removed it as to all other aliens.
Such a construction can not be adopted unless it be unavoidable.
The division of the Revised Statutes into titles and
chapters is chiefly a matter of convenience,. and reference
to a given title or chapter is simply a ready method of
identifying the particular provisions which are meant.
The provisions of Title XXX affected by the limitation
of § 2169, originally embraced the whole subject of naturalization of aliens. The generality of the words in §2165,
"An alien may be admitted
.
" was restricted by
§ 2169 in common with the other provisions of the title.
The words "this Title" were used*for the purpose of
identifying that provision (and others), but it was the
provision which was restricted. That provision having
been amended and carried into the Act of 1906, § 2169
being.left intact hnd unrepealed, it will require some.

45646-23--13

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

thing more persuasive than a narrowly literal reading of
the identifying words "this Title" to justify the conclusion tha't Congress intended the restriction to be no longer
applicable to the provision.It is the duty of this Court to give effect to the intent
*of Congress. Primarily this intent is ascertained by giving the words their natural significance, but if this leads
to an unreasonable result plainly at variance with the
policy of the legislation as a whole, we must examine the
matter further. We may then look to the reason of the
enactment and inquire into its antecedent history and
give it, effect in accordance with its design and purpose,
sacrificing, -if
necessary, the literal meaning in order that
the purpose may not fail. See Holy Trinity Church v;.
United States, 143 U. S. 457; Heydenfeldt v. Daney Gold
Mining Co., 93 U. S.634, 638. We are asked to conclude
that Congress, without the consideration or recommendation of any committee, without a suggestion as to the
effect, or a word of debate as to the desirability, of so
fundamental a change, nevertheless, by failing to alter
the identifying words of § 2169, which section we may
assume was continued for some serious purpose, has radically modified a statute always theretofore maintained
and considered as of great importance. It is inconceivable that a rule in force from the beginning of the Government, a part of our history as well.as our law, welded
into the structure of our national polity by a century of
legislative and administrative acts and judicial decisions,
would have been deprived of its force in such dubious
and casual fashion. We are, therefore, constrained to
hold that the Act of 1906 is limited by the provisions of
§ 2169 of the Revised Statutes.
Second. This brings us to inquire whether, under
§ 2169, the appellant is eligible to naturalization. The
language of the naturalization laws from 1790 to 1870
had been uniformly such as to deny the privilege of

OZAWA v. UNITED STATES.
178

Opinion of the Court

naturalization to. an alien unless he came within the
description "free whiite person." By § 7 of the Act of
July 14, 1870, c. 254, 16 Stat. 254,256, the naturalization
laws were "extended to aliens of African niativity and. to
persons of African descent." Section 2169 of the Revised
Statutes, as already pointed out, restricts the privilege to
the same classes of persons, viz: "to aliens [being free
white persons, and to aliens] of African nativity and
persons of African descent." It is true that in the first
edition of the Revised Statutes of 1873 the words in
brackets, "being free white persons, and to aliens" were
omitted, but this was clearly an error of the compilers
and was corrected by the subsequent- legislation of -1875
(c. 80, 18 Stat. 316', 318). Is appellant, therefore, a" free
white' person," within the meaning of that phrase as
found in the statute?
On behalf of the appellant it is urged that we should
give to this phrase the meaning which it had in the minds.
of its original framers in 1790 and that it was employed
by them for the sole purpose of excluding the black or
African race and the Indians then inhabiting this country.
It may be true that these two races were alone thought
of as being. excluded, but to say that they were the only
ones within the intent of the statute would be to ignore
the affirmative form of the legislation. The provision is
not that Negroes and Indians shall be excluded but it is,
in effect, that only free white persons shall be included.
The intention was to confer the privilege of citizenship
upon that class of persons whom the fathers knew as
white, and to deny it to all who could not be so classified.
It is not enough to say that the framers did not have in
mind the brown or yellow races of Asia. It is necessary
to go farther and be able to say that had these particular
races been suggested-the language of the act would have
been so varied as to include them within its privileges.
As said by Chief Justice Marshall in Dartmouth College

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518, 644, in deciding a question
of constitutional construction:" It is not enough to say,
that this particular case was-not in the mind of the convention, when the article was framed, nor of the American people, when it was adopted. It is necessary to go
further, and to say that, had this particular case been
suggested, the language would have been so varied, as to
exclude it, or it would haye been made a special exception. The case being within' the words of the rule, must
be within its operation likewise, unless there be something in the literal construction, so obviously absurd, or
mischievous, or repugnant to the general'spirit of the
instrument, as to justifylthose who expound the constitution in making it an exception." If it be assumed that
the opinion of the framers was that the only persons who
would fall outside the designation "wiite " were Negroes
and Indians, this would go no farther than to demonstrate their lack of sufficient information to enable them
to 'foresee precisely who would be excluded by that term
in the subsequent administration of the statute. It is
not important in 'c&nstruing their words to consider the
extent of their ethnological knowledge or whether they
thought that under the statute the only persons who
would be denied naturalization would be Negroes and
Indians. It is sufficient: to ascertain whom they intended
to include and having ascertained that it follows, as a
necessary corollary, that all others are to be excluded.
The question 'then is, Who are comprehended within
the phrase "free 'white persons?"
Undoubtedly the
wor d "free" was originally used in recognition of the
fact that slavery then existed and that some white persons
occupied that status. The word, however, has long since
ceased to have any practical gignificance and may now be
disiegarded.
We have been furnis4ed i "th elaborate briefs in which
the .meaning of the words "white person" is discussed

OZAWA v. UNITED STATES.
178

197-"

Opinion of the Court.

with ability and at -length, both from the standpoint of
judicial decision and from that of the science of ethnology.
It does not seem to us necessary, however, to follow counsel in their extensive researches in these fields. It is sufficient to note the fact that these decisions are, in substance, to the effect that the words import a racial and
not an individual test, and with this conclusion, fortified
as it is by reason and authority, we entirely agree. Manifestly, the test afforded by the mere color of the skin'of
each individual is impracticable as that differs greatly
among persons of the same race, even among AngloSaxons, ranging by imperceptible gradations from the fair
blond to the swarthy brunette, the latter being darker
than many of the lighter- hued persons of the brown or
yellow races. Hence to adopt the color test alone would
result in a confused overlapping of races and a gradual*
merging of one into the other, without any practical line
of separation. Beginning with the decision of Circuit
Judge Sawyer, in In re Ah Yup, 5 Sawy. 155 (1878), the
federal and state courts, in an almost unbroken line, have
held that the words "white person" were meant to indicate only a person of what is popularly known as the Caucasian race. Among these decisions, see for example:
In re Camille, 6 Fed. 256; In re Saito, 62 Fed. 126; In re
Nian, 6 Utah, 259; In re Kumagai, 163 Fed. 922; In re.
Yamashita, .30 Wash. 234, 237; In re Ellis, 179 Fed.
1002; In re Mozumdar, 207 Fed. 115, 117; In re Singh,
257 Fed. 209, 211-212; and Petition of Charr, 273 Fed.
207. With the conclusion reached in these several decisions we see no reason to differ. Moreover, that conclusion has become so well established by judicial and executive concurrence and legislative acquiescence that we
should not at this late day feel at liberty-to disturb it, in
the absence of reasons far more cogent than any that have
been suggested: United States v. Midwest Oil Co., 236
U. S. 459, 472.

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

The determination that the words "white person" are
synonymous with the words "a person of the Caucasian
race " simplifies the problem, although it does not entfrely dispose of it. 'Controversies have arisen and will no
doubt arise again in. respect of the proper classification of
individuals in border line cases. The effect of the conclusion that the words "white person" mean a Caucasian is
not to establish a sharp.line of demarcation between those
who Are entitled and those who are not entitled to naturalization, but rather a Zone of more or less debatable
ground outside of which, upon the one hand, are those
clearly, eligible, and outside of which, upon the other
hand, are those clearly ineligible for citizenship. Individual cases falling within this zone ,must be determined as
they a'rise- from time to time by what this Court has
called, in another connection (Davidson v. New Orleans,
96 -U. S. 97, 104) _"the gradual process of judicial inclusion and exclusion"
The appellant,- in the case now under consideration,
however, is clearly of a race -which is not Caucasian and
therefore belongs entirely outside the zone on the negative side. A large number of the federal and state courts
have so decided and we find no reported case definitely to
the contrary. These decisions are sustained by numerous
scientific authorities, which we do not deem it necessary
to review. We,think these decisions are right aid so hold.
The briefs filed on behalf of appellant refer in complimentary terms to the culture and enlightenment of the
Japanese people, and with this estimate we have no reason to disagree; but these are matters which cannot
enter into our consideration of the questions -here at
issue. We have no function in the matter other than to
ascertain the will of Congress and declare it. Of course
there is nt implied-either in the legislation or in our
interpretation of it-any suggestion of individual unworthiness or racial inferiority. These, considerations are
in"no manner involved.

YAMASHITA v. HINKLE.
178

Counsel for Parties.

The questions submitted are, therefore, answered as
follows:
Question No. 1. The Act of June 29, 1906, is not complete in itself but is limited by § 2169 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
Question No. 2. No.
Question No. 3. No.
It will be so certified.
TAKUJI YAMASHITA ET AL. v. HINKLE, SECRETARY OF STATE OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREMVE COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.

No. 177. Argued October 3, 4, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. Persons of the Japanese race, born in Japan, are not entitled,
under Rev. Stats., § 2169, to become naturalized citizens of the
United States. P. 200. Ozawa v. United States, ante, 178.
2. A judgment purporting to naturalize persons whose ineligibility
appears on its face, is without jurisdiction and void. P. 201.
Affirmed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Washington which denied the application of the petitioners for a writ of mandamus to require the respondent,
as Secretary of State of Washington, to receive and file
their articles of incorporation. This case was argued with
Ozawa v. United States, ante, 178.
Mr. George W. Wickersham, with whom Mr. Corwin -S.
Shank was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. L. L. Thompson, Attorney General of the State of
Washington, with whom Mr. E. TV. Anderson was on the
brief, for respondent.

