MASON v. UNITED STATES.

545

Syllabus.

MASON ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
EUBANK ET AL v. UNITED STATES.
MAcMULLEN ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
MATTHEWS ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
HUNSICKER ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
NORVELL ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
PALMER ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
ARKANSAS NATURAL GAS COMPANY ET AL. v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FlROM TME CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTIE
CIRCUIT.

Nos. 117, 115, 116, 114, 104, 113, 111, and 112. Argued November
17, 20, 1922.-Decided January 2, 1923.
1. The order of December 15, 1908, whereby, to conserve the public
interests and in aid of contemplated legislation, specified public
lands in Louisiana were "withdrawn from settlement and entry,
or other form of appropriation," was within the power of the
Executive. P. 553. United States v. Midwest Oil Co., 236 U. S.
459.
2. The words "other form of appropriation" in this order include
appropriations by mining locations. P. 553.
3. The- ejusdem generis rule is a rule of construction resorted to only
as an aid in ascertaining the meaning of doubtful words and
phrases; it will not be so employed as to render general words in
a statute meaningless by assigning them to a genus fully occupied
by the specific terms employed. P. 553.
4. Defendants who entered upon parcels of the withdrawn lands
under mining locations, and extracted oil, in "moral good faith,"
in the honest though mistaken belief that the order of withdrawal
was void, were liable in damages under the laws of Louisiana, only
for the value of -he oil taken after deducting the cost of drilling,
45646o-:-23-----35

-OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

260 U. S.

and equipping and operating the wells by means of which it was
extracted. P. 555.
5. A specific finding of fact, made by a master after seeing and hearing the -witnesses, and supported by evidence, will be -accepted
here. P. 556.
6. Location of one hundred and -sixty acres of oil land by an association of eight persons and lease of the tract on the same day to'
a corporation, in-pursuance of an understanding had prior to the
location, is not fraudulent under the federal mining laws. P. 557.
7. A general rule of, state statutory law for measuting damages in
cases of conversiofi is binding ,on the federal court' sitting in the
State, in suits in equity involvhig title to land there situate and
seeking to restrain c'ntinuing trespasses upon it, in which damages
for conversion of oil wrongfully extracted from the land are
claimed as' an incident to the equitable relief. P. 557.
8. The enforcement of such a statute in an equity suit does not
trammel or imp-ir'the equity jurisdiction of the federal courts.
P. 558.
9. Revised Statutes, § 721, providing that the laws of- the States
shall be rules of decision in trials at common law in the courts of
the United States, is merely declarative of the rule that would
-exist in its absence, and does not by implitation exclude such
laws as rules of decision in equity suits. P. 558.
iO.'Where some of a number of joint irespassers extract oil from
land (in Louisiana) and pay royalties thereon to the others. who
share none of the cost of mining, all are liable to the land owner
for tthe amount of the royalties without any deduction of expenses;
but a decree against all for the royalties and against the operating
trespassers for the net proceeds of the oil extracted, in so far as
it allows a double recovery of the royalties, is erroneous. P. 559.
273 Fed. 135, 142, reversed.

APPEALs from decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
airming with modifications decrees of the District Court
in suits brought by the United States to confirm its title
to various tracts of public land in Louisiana, to restrain
continuing trespasses and 'to secure. -accountings for the
value of oil and gas -wrongfully -extracted.
Mr; R. L. Batts and Mr. S. L. Herold,.with whom Mr.
D. Edward Greer, Mr. Hampden Story, Mr. J. A. Thigpen
and Mr. E. P. Lee.were on the briefs, for appellants.

MASON v. UNITED STATES.
545

Argument for the United States.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, with whom Mr.
SolicitorGeneral Beck and Mr. H. L. Underwood were on
the brief, for the United States.
I The withdrawal order contemplated and had the effect
of withdrawing the lands from mining location.
The damages were properly fixed upon the basis of wilful trespasses.
It is undisputed that appellants knew of the withdrawal
order and that they went upon the lands well aware that
the Government authorities had declared that no claims
could be initiated thereon. In the face of this warning,
they cannot claii to be innocent trespassers. Goodson v.
Stewart, 154 Ala. 660; Chilton v. Missouri Lumber Co.,

144 Mo. App. 315.
Their acts were clearly wilful and intentional, done with
the purpose to ignore and defy the withdrawal order, and
they knew that they were speculating upon the validity
of that order. They did not mistake the facts but the
law. A mistake of law does not lessen their liability nor
make them innocent trespassers. United States v. Murphy, 32 Fed. 376.
That a mistake of law is not a defense against a charge
of wilful trespass is also established by the decisions in
Guffey v. Smith, 237 U. S. 101, and Benson Mining Co.
v. Alta Mining Co., 145 U. S. 428. These cases we think
controlling and decisive in the cases at bar. To the same
effect is Union Naval Stores Co. v. United States, 240
U. S. 284. Cf. Pine River Logging Co. v. United States,
186 U. S. 279.
Durant Mining Co. v. Percy Mining Co., 93 Fed. 166,
and United States v. Van Winkle, 113 Fed. 903, proceed
upon the theory that the mistake was one of fact.
Erroneous advice of counsel in the face of knowledge of
an asserted adverse claim is not a defense in cases such as
these. Central Coal & Coke Co. v. Penny, 173 Fed. 34G0
Chilton v. MissouriLumber Co., supra.

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for the United States.

260 U. S.

In United States .v. Homestake Mining Co., 117 Fed.
481,the mining company consulted with the Secretary of
theK-nterior with reference to cutting the timber involved,
made a verbal agreement with that official as to the cutting and the price, and proceeded thereunder. Here, the
appellants proceeded without consulting any official and
in defiance of the order withdrawing the lands.
As the appellants were wilful trespassers, the measure
of damages is the value of the oil and gas in-the pipe line
when sold, without deduction for extraction. Woodenware Co. v. United States, 106 U- S 432; Guffey v. Smith,
supra.
But if innocent, the appellants would not be entitled
to allowance of cost of drilling. United States v. Midway
Northern Oil Co., 232 Fed. 619; United States v. McCutchen, 238 Fed. 575; St. Clair v. Cash Gold Mining
Co., 9Colo. App. 235; Hall v. Abraham, 44 Oreg. 477.
It is, however, to be borne in mind that not all of the
defendants sought the advice of counsel, and accordingly
the defense of good faith is not open to them.
In an action for malicious prosecution; Where both
malice and want of probable cause must be shown, the
defendant is, of course, permitted to show that he sought
the advice of counsel in order to prove the existence of
probable cause. Stewart v. Sonneborn, 98 U. S. 187. But
testimony of this sort is unavailing if the proof shows that
the advice was sought colorably. 18 L. R. A. (N. S.) 62.
The same reasoning applies in a suit of this sort. In
this case the Court of Appeals in effect found that the
locators did not seek legal advice in good faith, but for
an ulterior purpose. Its finding ought not to be disturbed.
Lawson v. United States Mining Co., 207 U. S. 1.
The location involved in the Norvell case is inherently
bad. The location,was fraudulent, of which the defendants not only had notice, but all of them actively participated in the fraud. That the location was made for the

MASON v. UNITED STATES.
545

540

Argument for the United States.

benefit of the Gulf Refining Company is apparent. The
general manager of the Gulf Refining Company approached the president of the First National Bank, telling him that there was a tract of vacant government
land in Louisiana supposed to contain oil; that he had
been advised that the company could locate only twenty
acres; that his company was taking up oil lands in that
vicinity; and that if the president of the bank and his
friends Would locate the land the company would lease
or buy it. On the very day the location was filed the
parties who participated in it, consisting of the officers
and employee§ -of the bank, executed a contract with
the oil company for the operation of the land. Under
this contract the so-called locators were to receive $500
each in the event the land proved to be oil land. The
locators had not seen the land, nor did they themselves
take part in locating it, but they appointed an agent, also
an employee of the Gulf Refining Company, to make the
location for them
The placer mining laws, which were extended to lands
containhig petroleum by the Act of February 11, 1897, 29
Stat. 526, provide that locations of not more than 160
acres each by two or more persons, or association of persons, having contiguous claims, are permitted, there being
a proviso to the effect that "no such location shall include more than 20 acres for each individual claimant."
Rev. Stat. § 2331.
This limitation upon the number of acres one individual may locate necessarily means something, hence "any
scheme or device entered into whereby one individual is
to acquire, more than that amount or proportion in area
constitutes a fraud upon the law, and consequently a fraud
upon the Government." Nome & Sinook Co. v. Snyder,
187 Fed. 385; Cook v. Klonos, 164 Fed. 529; United
States v. Brookshire Oil Co., 242 Fed. 718.

1550

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for the United States.

260 U. S.

There can be no valid location without a discovery.
And while the Act of March 2, 1911, 36 Stat. 1015, recognizes that a mining claim may be sold prior to discovery,
there is nothing in the act to validate a location otherwise
invalid.
It is by no means clear that this act authorizes the sale
of more than 20 acres to a single individual, and in no
event does it apply to-an invalid location or to lands which
at the 'time of the inception of development were withdrawn from mineral entry.
To say that a corporation or a single individual may
acquire by transfer prior to discovery any number of mining claims, irrespective of the area they contain, is. to
nullify that provision of the placer law which limits the
claim to 20 acres to a single individual.
That all the locators, including the Gulf Refining Company, had knowledge of the fraudulent character of this
location is planly apparent from the record. It is therefore submitted that none of them can claim to be innocent
trespassers.
The United States, with respect to the measure of damages, is not bound by the state law or decisions.
It is well settled that the United States is not bound
by state statutes of limitation; and,if the Government
sues and a balance is found in favor of the defendant, no
judgment can be rendered against the United States either
for such balance or in any case for costs. United States
v. Thompson, 98 U. S. 486.
It has also- been held that the statute of a State requiring landowners to fence. their lands does not apply to' the
United States; that the Federal Constitution has, delegated to Congregs without limitation the power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations concerning the public domain; and that the exercise of that
power cannot be restricted or embarrassed in any degree
bv state legislation. Shannon v. United States, 160 Fed.

MASON v. UNITED STATES.
545

551

Opinion of the Court.

870. See also, Utah Power & Light Co. v. United States,
243 U. S. 389.
Such being the law, no reason appears why the Government should be bound by such laws in fixing the measure
of damages for trespasses on its public lands.
-In Woodenware Co. v. United States, 106 U. S.432, it
is said that in the case of a wilful trespass the trespasser
is liable for the full value of the property taken without
allowance for expenditures made by him, The Woodenware Case arose in Wisconsin, and this Court referred to
the milder rule in that State, which it did not see fit to
follow, but followed the rule prevailing generally in this
country and in England. Moreover, it is not entirely
clear that the rule in Louisiana is what the appellants
claim it to be. They rely upon the decision of this Court
in Jackson v. Ludeling, 99 U. S.513, in which it was held
that parties' n possession of a railroad under fraudulent
foreclosure proceedings were entitled to be reimbursed for
money spent in repairing the road and restoring it to its
former condition under Art. 2314 of the Code.
That rule has no application here, because the money
spent in exploring for oil was not expended in the preservation of the land.
In Jackson v. Ludeling, supra, the Court refetred to a
series of cases in which it was held by the Supreme Court
of Louisiana that.a person without title going into possession of the public lands of the United States cannot set
up a claim for improvemcnts against the Government.
See Hollon v. Sapp, 4 La. Ann. 519.
There was no error in allowing interest -from the date
of the master's report. Jones v. United States, 258
U. S.40.
MR. JusTIcE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.

These cases, involving the same questions, were consolidated for trial in the District Court as well as for hear-

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

ing on appeal in the Circuit Court of Appeals and argued
together here.
The United States, as plaintiff, brought separate suits
in equity in the United States District Court for the
Western District of Louisiana against the several groups
-f.:ppollants (defendants in the bills) to have its title
to 4.&rious parcels of land confirmed, possession thereof
restored, defendants enjoined from setting up claims
thereto, extracting oil or other minerals therefrom, or
going upon or in any manner using the same. There was
in addition a prayer for an accounting in respect of the oil
and gas removed from the lands by the defendants. The
cases were referred to a master, and upon his.report the
District Court entered decrees in favor of the plaintiff in
all the cases, fromwhich appeals were taken by defendants and cross appeals by plaintiff to the Circuit Court
of Appeals. That court affirmed the decrees generally
but reversed the trial court in so far as it had allowed
drilling and operating costs as a credit against the value
of the oil extracted and converted by the defendants respectively. 273 Fed. 135, 142. The cases come here by
appeal.
The lands in question were public lands of the United
States and the only claim thereto asserted by the defendants was based upon locations purporting to have been
made under the mining laws. The.lands were withdrawn
on December 15, 1908, by aft executive order which reads:
"To conserve the public interests, and, in aid of such
legislation as may hereafter be proposed or recommended,
the public lands in Townships 15 to 23 North, and Ranges
10 to 16 West, Louisiana Meridian, Natchitoches Land
Office, Louisiana, are, subject to existing valid claims,
withdrawn from settlement and entry, or other form of
appropzriation."
After the promulgation of this order, at various times,
mining locations were made upon the several parcels of

MASON v. UNITED STATES.
545

. 563

Opinion of the Court.

land by the respective groups of defendants or persons in
privity with them. These locations,' it will be assumed
for the purposes of the case, complied with the requirements of the laws relating to the acquisition of mining
rights. Before the locations were made the question had
been submitted by some of the defendants to counsel
learned in the law who advised that the President was
without authority to make the withdrawal and that the
order, in any event, did not include appropriations of
lands valuable for their deposits of mineral substances.
All- the locations, it is claimed, were made by the defendants in the honest belief that the order not only was made
without authority but that it did not purport to preclude
appropriations under the mining laws.
Whatever legitimate doubts existed at the time of the
locations respecting the validity of the executive order,
were resolved by the subsequent decision of this Court
in United States v. Midwest Oil Co., 236 U. S. 459, where
it was held that a similar order, issued in 1909, was within
the power of the executive. Upon the authority of that
case the order here in question must be held valid.
Passing this, it is insisted that the order does not apply
to the cases here presented. The point sought to be
made rests upon the rule of statutory construction that
words may be so associated as to qualify the meaning
which they would have standing apart. Here, it is said,
the general words of the order "or other form of appropriation" must be read in connection with the specific
words "settlement and entry" immediately preceding,
and that so read they must be restricted to appropriations of a similar kind with those specifically enumerated.
The words "settlement and entry ", it is said, apply only
to the act of settling upon the soil and making entry at
a land office, as, for example, under the homestead laws;
that mining lands are acquired, not by settlement or
entry, but by location and development; and that this

554

-OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

process is not covered by the words "other Iorm of appropriation," limited, as they must be, by the associated specific words,, to those forms of appropriation which are
akin to- a settlement and entry. The rule is one well
established and frequently invoked,- but it is, after all, a
rule of construction, to be xesorted to only as an aid to
the ascertainment of the meaning of doubtful words and
phrases, and not to control or limit their meaning contrary to the true intent. It cannot be employed to render general words meaningless, since that would be to
disregard the primary rules, that effect should be given to
every part of a statute, if legitimately possible, and that
the words of a statute or other document are to be taken
according to their natural meaning. Here the supposed
specific words are sufficiently c6mprehensive to exhaust
the"goilus and leave nothing essentially similar upon
which 'the general words may operate. See United Siates
v. Mescall, 215 IT. S. 26; Danciger v. Cooley, 248 U. S.
319, 326; Higler v. People, 44 Mich. 299; United States
v. FirstNational Bank, 190 Fed. 336, 344. If the appropriation of mineral lands by location and development be
not akin to settlement and entry, what other form of
appropriation can be so characterized? None has been
suggbsted and we can think of none. Aipurchase of land or
an appropriation for railroad uses or rights of way, if not
actually involving settlement and entry, is no more akin
to that method than' an appropriation for mining purposes. fReasons Which, under the rule, would justify the
exclusion of one from the operation of the general words
would 6qually justify the exclusion of all. It would
therefore result, there .being nothing .ejusdem generis,
that the applicatiou of the rule contended for would
n~dlify the general -words altogether. Moreover, the circumstances leading up to and accbmpanying the issuance
of the oider demonstrate conclusively that its main, if
not itqs only, purpose was to preserve from private appro-

MASON v. UNITED STATES.
545

Opinion of the Court.

priation the oil and gas which the lands were thought to
contain pending investigation and congressional action,
and this purpose would have been subverted by appropriations of the nature here involved quite as much as by
other forms. We conclude, therefore, that the mining
locations here relied upon fell clearly within the withdrawal order and consequently were prohibifed by it.
The trial court so decided; but, following the report of
the master, held that these locations were made in moral
good faith, and that under the laws of Louisiana, where
the lands are situated, the defendants were liable only
for the value of the oil after deducting therefrom the cost
of drilling, equipping and operating the wells, through
and by means of which the oil was extracted. It was to
reverse this latter holding that the cross appeals were
prosecuted. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the
District Court in this particular upon the ground that the
defendants' mistake, if any, was one of law, and constituted no excuse, and that the Louisiana law could have
no dpplication since the suit was one in equity, to be
governed by general principles and not by local laws or
rules of decision.
Whether the defendants were innocent trespassers
within the principles of the cbmmon law we find it unnecessary to determine. That the measure of damages applied by the District Court was in consonance with the
statute law of Louisiaha as- interpreted by the highest
court of that State is clear. The Louisiana Civil Code
(Article 501), in terms provides that the "fruits pro.
duced by the thing belong to its owner, although they
may have been produced by the work and labor of the
third person
on the owner's reimbursing such
person his expenses." This provision is taken substan-tially from Article 548 of the Code Napoleon, respecting
which, Laurent, a distinguished commentator, says:
"This is a principle of equity which will not permit the

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

owner ib enrich himself at the expense of another, even
though he lbe in bad faith. This applies to all the expenses to which the possessor has been subjected."
Martel 'v. $ennings-He-y'ood Oil Syndicate, 114 La. 351,
359.' The decisions of the Supreme Court of Louisiana
have settled the rule that under the provisions of this
article of the Louisiana Civil Code, in awarding damages
to the owner of property from which oil has been extracted the cost of production must be first deducted
from the value of the oil produced, even though the defendant went into possession in technical bad faith.but
in moral good faith. Cooke v. Gulf Refining Co., 135
La. 609, 618, and cases cited.
The defendants here, it is true, took possession of the
lands in violation of the withdrawal order, but they did so
in the honest, though mistaken, belief that the order was
wholly without authority. Some of them had legal advice
from competent counsel to that effect. It is common
knowledge that the validity of the withdrawal order in
question, as well as the later order, of 1909, was in grave
doubt until the decision of this Court in United States v.
MidwJest Oil Co., supra. Not only was a substantial opinion to be found among members of the profession that the
order was invalid, but the decision here was by a divided
court. In view of these circumstances, we think it fair to
conclude that the mining locations by defendants and the
occupation and use of the lands thereunder were in moral
good faith, within the meaning of the Louisiana Code and
decisions. New*Orleans v. Gaines, 131 U. S. 191, 218.
The Circuit Court of Appeals suggested doubts respecting the honesty of defendants' motives in seeking or in
acting upon advice of counsel; but we cannot ignore the
finding of the master explicitly to the effect that the
locators proceeded in "moral good faith." His finding
was made after hearing and seeing the witnesses and, having' support in the evidence, will be accepted here. See
Adamson v. Gilliland, 242 U. S. 350, 353.

MASON v. UNITED STATES.
545

Opinion of the Court.

The Norvell case is sought to be distinguished from the
others. It appears'that the location covered one hundred
and sixty acres ard was made by an association of eight
persons. The lands were leased to the Gulf Refining Company upon the same day in pursuance of an understanding had prior to the location. But there is nothing in the
federal mining laws which renders such a transaction
fraudulent, and a careful reading of the evidence discloses
nothing in the circumstances which would make the Louisiana statute as to the measure of damages inapplicabl6.
Was the lower court right in its conclusion that the
Louisiana law was not applicable in an equity suit?
Subject to certain exceptions, the statutes of a State are
binding upon the federal courts sitting within the State,
as they are upon the state courts. One of the exceptions
is that these statutes may not be permitted to enlarge
or diminish the federal equity jurisdiction. Mississippi
Mills v. Cohn, 150 U. S. 202. That jurisdiction is conferred by the Constitution and laws of the United States
and must be the same in all the States. Neves v. Scott,
13 How. 268. But while the power of the courts- of thb
United States to entertain suits in equity and to decide
them cannot be abridged by state legislation, the rights
involved therein may be the proper subject of such legislation. See Missouri,Kansas & Texas Trust Co. v. Krumseig, 172 U. S. 351, 358. In Brine v. Insurance Co., 96
U. S. 627, 639, this Court said:
"We are not insensible to the fact that the industry of
counsel has been rewarded by finding cases even in this
court in which the proposition that the rules of practice
of the Federal courts in suits in equity cannot be controlled by the laws of the States, is expressed in terms so
emphatic and §o general as to seem to justify the inference
here urged upon ,us. But we do not find that it has been
decided in any case that this principle has been carried so
far as to deny to a party in those courts substantial rights

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

conferred by the statute of i State, or to add to or take
from a contract that which is made a part of it by the law.
of the State, except where the law impairs the obligation
of a contract previously made."
See, also, Independent District'of Pella v. Beard, 83
Fed. 5, 13, where it is said:
"It is undoubtedly true that the United States courts
sitting as courts of equity have a freedom of action in this
respect which they do not possess as courts of common
law, and that, as a general proposition, the equity jurisdiction of the federal courts cannot be limited or restrained by a state. Green v. Creighton, 23 How. 90;
Payne v. Hook, 7 Wail. 430; Ridings v. Johnson, 128 U. S.
212; MississippiMills v. 'Cohn, 150 U. S. 202. But these
decisions relate to the practice, the impairing of, jurisdic*tion, rather than to the determination of the rights of parties after jurisdiction has been acquired."
Here, while the suit is 6ne in equity, the statute and decis ons relied upon have nothing to do with the general
principles- of equity or with the federal equity jurisdiction, but simply establish a measure of damages applicable alike to actions at law and suits in equity.. The case
presented -by the bills is primarily one involving title to
land and seeking an injunction against continuing tres'passes.. The conversion of the oil, for which damages are
sought, is incidental and dependent. The entire cause of
action is therefore, local (Ellenwood v. Marietta Chair
Co., 158 U. S. 105), and the matter of damages within the
controlling scope of state legislation. See Mullins Lumber Co. v. Williamson & Brown Land & Lumber Co., 255
Fed. 645, 647. The enforcement of such a statute- in an
equity suit in no manner trammels or impairs the equity
-jurisdiction of the national courts.
It was urged upon the argument that § 721 of the Revised Statutes, which provides that the laws of the several
States shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at
common law in the courts'of the United States, by impli-

MASON v. UNITED STATES.
545

Opinion of the Court.

cation excludes such laws as rules of decision in equity
suits. The statute, however, is merely declarative of the
rule which would exist in the absence of the statute.
Bank of Hamilton v. Lessee of Ambrose Dudley, Jr., 2
Pet. 492, 525; Bergmaw v. Bly, 66 Fed. 40, 43. And it is
not to be narrowed because of an affirmative legislative
recognition in terms less broad than the rule. The rule
that an affirmative statute, without a negative express or
implied, does not take away the common law (Potter's
Dwarris, 68; Sedgwick Statutory Construction, 29, 30)
affords an analogy., See Bailey v. Commonwealth, 11
Bush. (Ky.) 688, 691; Johnstonv. Straus, 26 Fed. 57, 69.
There are numerous cases, both in this Court and in the
lower federal courts, where the rule has been applied in
suits in equity, and while § 721 was not mentioned, it is
scarcely possible that it was overlooked. See, for example, Jackson v. Ludeling, 99 U. S.513, 519, a suit in equity,
where this Court held that a law of Louisiana based upcin
the civil law, relating to the measure of damages, was controlling. The law there involved was Article 2314 of the
Civil Code, which provides:
"He. to whom property is restored must refund to the
person who possessed it, even in bad faith, all he had
necessarily expended for the preservation of the property."
The general purpose and principle of that provision and
of the provision which is relied upon in the instant case
are the same.
The defendants in some of the cases enumerated in the
title complain of the action of the master and the District
Court in charging against them various sums paid to codefendants as royalties, notwithstanding the fact that the
cost of drilling, equipping anA operating the wells exceeded the value of the oil extracted, or that the exaction
was in addition to the value after deducting such cost.
These royalties arose from and were paid out of proceeds
of the oil; but this oil belonged to the plaintiff as owner
of the property from which it had been taken. The de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

fendants who received the royalties were obviously not
entitled to retain them, and having incurred. no expense
in connection with the mining operations, were liable for
the entire amount and the defendants who paid the royalties were jointly liable as co:-wrongdoers. A joint judgment against all was therefore proper. In the Mason.
case, however, the net value-of the oil extracted exceeded
in amount the royalties paid. The gross value was
$67,732.94, the drilling and operating cost was $34,067.13,
which, being deducted, left the net value of $33,665.81.
Royalties were paid by the producer, the Gulf Refining
Company, to its co-defendants, amounting to $11,294.20.
The'master found and the District Court held that the
Gulf Refining Company was liable for the $33,665.81, and
that the recipients of the royalties and the Gulf Refining
Company were liable in solido for the additional sum of
$11,294.20, making the total judgment $44,960.01. We
think this was erroneous. For reasons already stated,
plaintiff was entitled to recover the amount of the royalties without deduction in any event, but it was not entitled to recover them twice and this is clearly the effect of
the decree, the amount of which should be reduced to
$33,665.81.
The District Court reserved the question of the adjustment of equities among the several defendants in respect
of the royalties and no doubt an opportunity will be afforded by that court for itspresentation and consideration.
As to the rights'of the respective defendants in that matter,'however, we express no opinion.
The decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals are reversed
and those of the District Court are affirmed im:all the
cases except that the decree in the Mason case is
modified by reducing the *amount to $33,665.81$22,371.61 against the Gulf Refining Company and
$11,294.20 against that defendant and the respective
royalty recipients in solido-and as so modified, it is
affirmed.

