BOSTON v. JACKSON.
290

309

Syllabus.

Government acted in bad faith in refusing to abandon the
equitable remedy until the trial court had decided the
issue of knowledge against it. The Government gained
nothing, the defendants lost nothing, by the bringing of
the futile suit in equity to annul the patent. However
stupid or stubborn a party may have been, he is not
deprived of the right to try another remedy; for whatever
the cause of his earlier futile attempt, his failure proves
him to have been mistaken. To hold that this action for
deceit is barred, because the Government did not dismiss
the earlier equity suit when it was advised by the answer
that the statutory bar would be relied on, lays down a rule
new in this Court,--a rule inconsistent with the principles
heretofore established and opposed to a long line of well
considered decisions in state courts. To do this seems to
me regrettable.
CITY OF BOSTON v. JACKSON, TREASURER
,AND RECEIVER GENERAL OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 141. Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted November 13, 1922.Decided December 4, 1922.
1. Upon review here of a state judgment, an order of the state
Supreme Court substituting the successor of a state official as a
party is accepted as a conclusive determination that the state law
authorized the substitution, P.,313.
2. Where the state court justffiably construed the bill as standing
for further relief after a particular tax, sought to be enjoined, had
been collected and paid over, this Court will accept its view that
the piyment did not Tender the litigation moot. P. 3i3.
3. Under paragraph 5 of Rule 6"of this Court, a judgment will be
affirmed on motion when, in view of previous decisions, the questions presented by the plaintiff ifi error are so wanting in substance
as.not to need further argument. P.-314.

-

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

260 U. S.

4. Subways and tunnels, constructed by the City of Boston under
authority of a statute which declared them, with their rents and
profits, to be he..l by the City in its private or proprietary capacity, for ts own property, never to be taken by the State without
just compensation, *'ere leased by the CAy, for a long term at a
fixed rental, to a railroad corporation serving that and other cities
and towns. The company falling into financial difficulty, the
legislature enacted a law under which, with the consent of the
stockholders, the railroad, including the leased premises, was taken
over by trustees, who- under the law, repaired and cperated the
Toad, determining the needed expenditures, and fixed the fares to
meet the cost of service, including taxes, rentals, interest on the
company's indebtedness and dividends to its stockholders as fixed
' -, the act. Payments necessary to meet deficit6 or diminution of

reserve were to be made by the State and the amounts assessed
upon the several cities and towns, as an addition to the state tax,
in proportion to the number of persons in each using the service,
as determined by the trustees, Held:-(a) That, the statute did not impair the obligation of the City's contract of lease, since the lease was assignable and the statute provided for repairs, and patyment of the rent, while the taxes
authorized were not a. diminution of the rent imposed on the
City as a proprietor but were state taxes, for a state purpose, as
to which the City was but t collection agency. P. 314.
(b) That, operation of the railroad by the State being authorized
by the state'constitutioia and laws, the delegation to the trustees of
the power to determine expenditures and the imposition of taxes
to pay deficits did not deprive the City of property without due
process, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 316.
5. Quaere: Whether a State may confer upon a subdivision, likea
city, capacity to acquire property or contract rights protected
under the Federal Constitution against subsequent impairment by
the State? P. 316.
237 Mass. 403, affirmed.

ERROR to a, decree of ;the Slpreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts sustaining a demurrer to a bill, brought by
the City of Boston to enjoin , tax and for other relief, and
dismissing it for want of equity.
Mr. 'Nathan Matthews, Mr.' Joseph Lyons and Mr. E.
Mark Sullivan for plaintiff in error.

BOSTON v. JACKSON.
309

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. J. Weston Allen, Attorney General of the State of
Massachusetts, Mr. Edwin H. Abbot Jr., Mr. Alexander
Lincoln, Ir. H. Ware Barnum, Mr. Ckarles W. Mulcahy,
Mr. Alexander Britton and Mr. Thomas Hunt for defendants in error.
MR.CHIEF JusTIcE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a writ of error to a decree of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts sustaining a demurrer to a
bill in equity against the Treasurer and Receiver General
of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the Boston Elevated Railway Company, and the trustees who are operating the railway of that Company under a special statute
of the Corftmonwealth. (Mass. Spec. Stat. 1918, c. 159),
and dismissing the bill for want of equity, the pldintiff
not wishing to plead further. It now comes before us on
a motion by the Attorney General of Massachusetts to
dismiss or affirm.
The case as made by the bill is an impeachment of the
validity of the Special Act of 1918. By Acts of 1902 and
1911 (Stat. 1902, c.534, and Stat. 1911, c.741), the City
of Boston was given power to construct and did construct
subways and tunnels at a cost of $31,000,000, and by.the
same authority leased these and also others built by it
under earlier statutes to the Boston Elevated Railway
Company for a fixed rental until July 1, 1936, and the
whole property and its rents and profits are by the express
terms of the statute held by the city "in its private or
proprietary capacity, for its own property" never to be
taken by the Commonwealth except upon payment of just
compensation. The railway roompany got into financial
difficulty. It served the residents of Boston and other
towns of the Commonwealth. The 'Gencral Court in the
public interest passed the Special Act of 1918 to relieve
the situation. In general the act provided for the appoint-

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

ment of trustees who were to take the railway put of the
hands of the company and operate it under the leases
to the company by the City of Boston, on condition
that the stockholders of 'the railway company- accepted
the provisions of the act. It is not'necessary to get out
what these provisions in detail are, except to say that
they provide for the payment of diviqends on the stock
of the company, the repair and maintenance of the railway, the raising of $3,000,000 by the company for the improvement of the property and a reserve fund, and the
payment of any deficit in 'operation out of ihe treasury of
the Commonwealth. If the Commonwealth is called
upon to make payments, to meet deficits or diminution
of the reserve fund, such amounts are to be assessed upon
the several cities and towns in which the railway operates,
as an' addition to the regular state tax, in proportion to
the number of persons in said cities and towns using the
service of the company at the time of the payments.as
determined by the trustees. The trustees are to fix the
fares t6 meet the 'cost of service, including taxes, rentals
andjterest oA the indebtedness of the company, fixed
divifends on the preferred stock, and five per cent. on the
common stock for two years, five and one-half per cent.
for the next two years and six per cent. for the remainder
of public operation, which is for a'period of ten years
and thereafter as -the Commonwealth shall determine.
The company's stockholders having aqcepted the act,
the trustees took over the possession and operation of
the railway.' They found the railway in bad repair and
charged $2,000,000 for depreciation and $2,800,000 for
maintenance and repair in the year 1919. This led to a
deficit for that year of $4,000,000, although in'previous.
years the company had not expended more .than $100,000
a year on such account. The Treasurer and Receiver
General under the Act of 1918 paid the deficit out of the
Troasfiry of the Commonwealth, and was about to inelude

BOSTON v. JACKSON.
309

1313

Opinion of the Court.

the same in the state taxes to be collected by the City of
Boston and the other towns through .which the railway
runs in the proportion fixed by the act. The object of
the bill was to prevent this levy and collection and
further proceedings under the act.
The motion to dismiss is urged first upon the ground
that Charles L. Burrill as Treasurer and Receiver General
was the, defendant in the original bflf and that the present
defendant Jackson, his successor in office, has been substituted without legal sanction. The substitution took
place in the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts
before that court considered the case on its merits and
in the court's opinion the objection to the substitution
was noted and overruled. This settles conclusively so
far as we are concerned, that the state law authorized the
substitution. The case of Irwin v. Wright, 258 U. S. 219,
has no application. That was an appeal from a Federal
District Court in which this*Court had to consider the
substitution in this Court of county officers newly elected
for those in office when the suit was brought and the
decree entered in the District Court. It was not authorized by the federal statute and we could filid no state law
which permitted it to be done.
The second ground urged for dismissal is that the tax
for 1919, sought to be enjoined, has been'collected friom'
the taxpayers of the city by the city and paid over to the"
Treasurer of the Commonwealth so that the case here
becomes a moot one. Bat the tax had been paid before
the Supreme Judicial Court took up, considered and
decided the case. It must, therefore, have found, as it
was entirely justified in doing, that the bill in its averments, prayer and real object was directed not, only
against the collection of -the tax then pending but: against
future payments out of the Treasury of the Commonwealth and against -the continued operation by the
trustees under the statute of 1918 with th6 jossible in-

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

curring of future deficits to be assessed agaipqt the 'city
for collection. The'action of the state count upon-such a
matter relieves us from its consideration.' Bi-Aetdllic Investment Co. v. State Board of F.qualiiationof Colorado,
239 U. S. 441, 444.
Having disposed thus of the grounds presented for dismissing the writ of error, we come to the alternative prayer
for affirmance. Under paragraph 5 of Rule 6 of this
Court, when the questions presented on such a motion
are found by the Court, in view of our previous decisions,
to be so wanting in substance as not to need further argument, we dispose of the case. Chicago, Rock Island &
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Devine, 239 U. S. 52, 54; Missouri
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Castle, 224 U. S. 541, 544.
The plaintiff in- error comes to this Court because, as
it says, the statute of 19-1ยง of the Commonwealth, by
which the trustees took over and are now operating the
railway, impairs the obligation of the contract of lease of
its property in the tunnels and subways to the railway
company, and so violates the contract clause of the
Federal. Constitution. It further contends that the imposition of -a tax merely to aid a private corporation, as in
the Act of 191-8 complained of, is not for a public purpose,
and taxes collected therefor from it is taking its property
without due process of law. Thirdly, it avers that vesting
power in the trustees to fix the deficit in operation of the
railway and to assess the city for a large part thereof is
%a,so
taking its property without due process of law.
-We are relieved from full or detailed consideration of
these grounds urged for reversal by the satisfactory opinion of the Supreme Judicial Court in this case. Boston v
Treasurer and. Receiver General, 237 Mass. 403.
What the Commonwealth didwas to help the-peopli
of the towns which the railway served when the railway'f
finances threatened its collapse, by taking over the leas(
of the railway company* for a valuable consideration

B

BOSTON v. JACKSON.'
309

315

Opinion of the Court.

There was no restriction upon the power of the railway
company to assign the lease if the company had the cbrporate power and that, if it did not exist before, was
supplied by the act' itself. The law provided for keeping
the propertyT in good repair and the payment of the
rentals due the city. There was nothing in the contract
of assignment which in the slightest degree impaired the
obligation ,of the company to the city under the lease.
Indeed, it secured the performance of those obligations.
But it is said the contract was impaired because the act
provided that any deficit incurred in the operation of the
road under the assignment was to be paid out of the
Treasury of the Commonwealth and finally was to be
collected in large part from the City of Boston, and thus
that though Boston was to receive its rental, it was required to pay a deficit in operation into which the rental
must enter as an important factor. The effect, therefore,
was to take away or impair its beneficial interest in the
profits of the contract of lease and its property. To this
the Supreme Court answered that this tax was not imposed on Boston in its proprietary capacity in which it
built the subways and leased them. The taxes collected
were state taxes to achieve a state purpose and Boston
in its public and political character was a mere state
tax agency for the collection. The taxpayers weie to be
called upon to bear the burden of the public' purpose of
the State in furnishing this important service of transportation in and between the conjmuriities in which they
lived. If this was in accord vWith the state constitution
and statutes, as we must and do find it to be from the
well-reasoned opinion of the Supreme Judicial Court, we
can not see that in any respect the levy bf the tax for
deficits impairs Boston's contract with the railway company.
In disposing of this objection we have in effect disposed
of those objections to the Act of 1918 based on the Four-

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

teenth Amendment. If the constitution and laws of Massachusetts authorize the Commonwealth to operate a railway company for the public benefit, there is nothing in
the Fourteenth Amendment to prevent. Nor is there anything in it preventing the State from using the trustees
as.agents to operate the railway and in such operation to
determine the needed expenditures to comply with the
obligations of the lease or the requirements of adequate
public service. This is delegating to proper agents the
decision of a proper administrative policy in the management of a state enterprise and the ascertainment of facts
peculiarly within their field of authorized action.
In this conclusion, we assume, as did the Supreme Judicial Court, that the State may confer on one of its subdivisions like a city or town the private proprietary'capacity
by which it may acquire contract or property rights protected by the Federal Constitution against subsequent impairment by its creator the State. Mt. Hope Cemetery v.
Boston, 158 Mass. 509. We do not wish to be understood
as accepting such assumption as an established rule. Pawhuska v. Pawhuska Oil & Gas Co., 250 U. S.394. All we
now decide is that even if the City of Boston may involie
the contract clause of the Federal Constitution to protect
its rights under the lease as against infringing legislation
by the Commonwealth, the Act of 1918 does not infringe.
Decree affirmeid.
SOUTHERNRAILWAY COMPANY v. CLIFT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.

No. 107. Argued November 21, 1922.-Decided December 4, 1922.
1. A law declaring that "either party" may file a petition ior rehearing within a stated "time after judgment is not to be construed
as referring to a successful party and does not defer the finality of
the jldgment fo. purposes of review by his adversary. P. 318.

