BROWNE v. THORN.
127

Syllabus.

right. Chenery v. Fitchburg R. R. Co., 160 Mass.
211, 212.
As to the rule of damages in case the plaintiff recovers,
n the absence of a decision by the Supreme Court of the
State we should not regard the mussels as part of the
realty within the meaning of the statute relied upon in
the second count, and so faras appears at present we see
no reason for charging the defendants, if at all, with more
than the value of the mussels at the time of conversion,
as ruled below. Wetherbee v. Green, 22 Mich 311.
Wooden-Ware Co. v. United States, 106 U.. S. 432. Union
Naval Stores Co. v. United States, 240 U. S. 284. The
result is that this judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is affirmed, but not all the principles laid down
by it, and that the case will stand for trial by jury in
the District Court.
Judgment affirmed.
BROWNE v; THORN ET AL., PARTNERS, DOING
BUSINESS AS THORN & MAGINNIS.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 88. Argued October 20, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. In an action by brokers to recover from their customer the balance
of their account*for purchases and sales of cotton made on their
-exchange pursuant to his orders, it is not a defence that the transactions were gambling because he had no intention to receive or
deliver the actual cotton, if his intention in that regard was not
disclosed to the brokers. P. 139.
2. Hedging-a means whereby manufacturers and others who have to
make contracts of purchase and sale in advance, secure themselves
against fluctuations of the market by counter contracts-is prima
facie lawful. P. 139.
3. Section 4 of the "United States Cotton Futures Act", must be
read in the light of construction of similar language of the Statute

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

of Frauds, and does not require that bought and sold notes should
name the principals and be signed by both brokers. P,. 140.,
4. Evidence of an understanding between the parties held to justify
interpreting a telegraphic "stop" order from a customer to his
brokers as directing sale of his cotton at the prices specified in the
order, or, if those could -not bie ot,' at the next best price possible.
P. 140.
272 Fed.-950, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming a judgment for the plaintiffs in an action
by brokers, to recover from their customer, Browne, the,
balance of their account for purchase and sale of cotton, on
a cotton exchange of, which they were members. The case
went twice to the court below. See 257, Fed. 519; 272
Fed. 950.
Mr. James B. McDonough for petitioner.
Mr. Ira D. Oglesby and Mr. L. C. Going, with whom
Mr. Jos. E. Johnson and Mr. Ben Cravens were on the
brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE HoLmEs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
'Act of August 11, .1916, c. 313, Part A, 39 Stat. 446, 476.
"Sec. 3. That upbn each contract of sole of any cotton for future
delivery made at, on, or in any exchange, board of trade, or similar
institution or place of business, there is hereby levied a tax in the
nature of an excise of 2 cents for each pound of the cotton involved
0
in any such contract."
"See. 4. That each contract of sale of cotton for future delivery
mentioned in section three of this Act shall be in writing plainly
stating, or evidenced by written memorandum showing, the terms of
such contract, including the quantity of the cotton involved and the
name and addresses of the seller and buyer in such contract, and shall
be signed by the party to be charged, or by his agent in his behalf.
If the contract or memorandum specify in bales the quantity of the
cotton involved, without giving the weight, each bale shall, for the
purposes of this Act, be deemed to weigh five hundred pounds."

BROWNE v. THORN.
137

Opinion of the Court.

This is a suit brought by the respondents, cotton
brokers, to iecover the balance of an account for the purchase and sale of 2,000 bales of cotton on the New Orleans
Cotton Exchange. At a first trial a verdict was directed
for the defendant on the ground that broker's seller's slips
coupled with oral evidence that corresponding buyer's
slips were executed, or vice versa, were not competent evidence of the transactions, under the United States Cotton
Futures Act. Act of August 11, 1916, c. 313, Part A, ยง 4,
39 Stat. 446,476. The judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals after a very satisfactory discussion.
257 Fed. 519. There followed a second trial in which the
verdict was for the plaintiffs and a judgment, sustained
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 272 Fed. 950, that is
brought here by writ of error, supplemented by a petition for a writ of certiorari. There is no ground for the
writ of error on the record, although the plaintiff in error
now, in view of Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44, argues that
the Cotton Futures Act is void except in the taxing provision enacted as an alternative to compliance with its
regulations. A petition for certiorari was granted at the
October Term, 1920, 256 U. S. 689.
The first ground relied upon for the petition is that the
transactions were gambling transactions. That was the
petitioner's contention at the trial, but to put it at the lowest, there was evidence to the contrary, the question was
left to the jury with instructions that if the plaintiffs knew
that the defendant had no intention to deliver or receive
the actual cotton they could not recover, and the jury
found for the plaintiffs. The defendant contended that
his undisclosed intention was enough to defeat the plaintiff's claims; but that is not the law. It is objected that
the judge instructed the jury that hedging was lawful,
hedging being explained as a means by which manufacturers and others who have to make contracts of purchase or
sale in advance secure themselves against the fluctuations

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

of the market by counter contracts. Prima fici6 such
transactions 'are lawful. Chicago Board of Trade v.
Christie Grain & Sto'ck Co., 198 U. S. 236, 249.
Tho bought and sold notes executed on the Exchange
mentioned only the names of the brokers and neither was
signed by both the brokers. i-is said that the act- of
Congress, ยง4, was not satisfied. We agree with the Circuit'Court of Appeals" that the language of ยง-4 of the
Cotton Futures Act must be read in the light of the decisions -upon the similar language of the Statute of Frauds
and thai the notes were sufficient; assuming without discussion that in this case it was necessary to prove that
ยง 4 was followed. $ee Bibb v. Allen, 149 U. S. 481.
Perhaps the most serious of the petitioner's defences
wiras that the 2,000 bales of cotton were sold without
authority. As stated by his counsel, on Germany's announcing unrestricied submarine warfare, cotton fell and
the petiioner telegraphed to ihe 'defendants to sell 2'000
bales, The telegram read as follows: "Stop ten seventeen twenty and ten seventeen fifteen "-which is understood to -6arry a direction to sell oxe thousand bales -at
17.20 cents per pound And one thousand at 17.15.- But
there' was clear and sufficient evidence that su"ch stop
orders as they were called were understood to direct not
only sale at the price mentioned but, if that could not be
got, a sale at the next best possible price. The resPo0nd-,
ents sold at fourteen cents which was the best that could
be done. We. think it unnecessary to go into further.
detail to showthat the judgment should be affirmed.,
Judgment affirmed.

