DAVIS v. GIPEN.
346

Statement of the Case.

do not pay tribute to the State. This case is stronger
than that of Allgeyer in that here no act was done within
the State, whereas there a letter constituting a step in the
contract-was posted within the jurisdiction. It .is true
that the State may regulate the activities of foreign corporations within the State but it cannot regulate or interfere with what they do outside. The other limit upon
the State's power due to its having pernitted the plaintiff
in error to establish itself as alleged, need not be considered here. Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400,
414; Cheney Brothers Co. v. Massachusetts,246 U. S. 147,
157; Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Wisconsin, 247 U. S. 132, 140.
Judgment reversed.
DAVIS, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS,
AND AGENT UNDER SECTION 206 OF TRANSPORTATION ACT OF 1920, v. GREEN, ADMINISTRATRIX OF GREEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI.
No. 132. Argued November 28, 1922.-Decided December 4, 1922.
1. A railroad company is not liable under the Federa4 Employers'
Liability Act for an injury inflicted by the wanton, wilffil a(, of
an employee, out of the course of his employment. P. 351.
2. Where the case was tried upon the warranted assumption that the
parties were engaged in interstate commerce 'at the thne of the injury, the defendant cannot be deprived on review of rights under
the federal act upon the ground that such employment was not
adequately proved. P. 352.
125 Miss. 476, reversed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Mississippi, affirming, with a reduction, a judgment recovered by the present respondent in a consolidated action
for the death of her husband.

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

Mr. T. J. Wills for petitioner.
Mr. J W. Cassedy, with wbom Mr. E. L. Dent was on
the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE HoLms delivered the opinion of the
Court.

This is an action made up of the consolidation of two
-suits, both brought to make the plaintiff in error liable
for what is alleged to have been the wilful and wanton
killing of Jesse Green, a conductor on the line of the
Gulf & Ship Island Railroad Company, by one McLendon,
an engineer. The first suit, although alleging -that the
railroad-was a .con-mon carrier both intra and interstate,
may be taken to have been brought under the state law.
It was brought by the widow of Green on her own behalf
and his children -by.her as next friend. To this the defendant pleaded in bar among. other things that the plaintiffs ought not to have their action -because at the -time
and place the parties were engaged in interstate commerce
in this that the defendant and the employees naiied were
engaged in transporting articles of commerce from and to
foreign States. The second suit was brought three
months later by the Widow as administratrix and was intended-to state a cause of action under either the law of
he State or the act of Congress as the facts should turn
out..To this also there was a plea in the words that we
have quoted in abridged form. The plaintiff replied denying- that she ought not to have her action because at the
time and place of the said injury the defendant and the,
deceased were engaged in interstate commerce in this that,
&c., following the words of the plea. This was a' plain.
case of what'in the' old pleadiig -was called a negative
15regnant;,it admitted the fact and only denied the conclusion. Very probably it was intended to deny the fact, as
this -mode of traversing a paragraph as a whole is very

DAVIS v. GREEN.
349

Opinion of the Court.

common in the present careless ways, but it did not deny
it in legal effect. Directly after the second suit was
brought, the principal plaintiff was allowed to change the
first to a suit by herself as administratrix and the two
suits were consolidated on her motion. As the replication that we have mentioned seems to have been filed
after the consolidation, perhaps it was regarded as going
to the plea in both suits. Otherwise that in the first
suit does not appear to have been put in issue. At the
trial the judge ruled that the parties were engaged in interstate commerce, without objection so far as the record
shows, but refused, subject to exception, to direct a
verdict for the defendant. The plaintiff had a verdict
and judgment for $35,000, and the case then was taken
to the Supreme Court.
The Supreme Court sustained the judgment, although
it held that the case was governed by state law. It held
that on the general principle of liability the act of Congress and the law of the State agreed. It held, however,
that there were important differences between the two
laws with regard to the measure of damages and otherwise, and that as the case was tried under the act of
Congress, and as on the evidence the highest amount
that could have been recovered under the federal act was
$16,000, the plaintiff must remit all above that amount if
she would retain her judgment, although under the state
law she could have recovered more.
The ground on which the Railroad Company was held
was that it had negligently employed a dangerous man
with notice of his characteristics, and that the killing occurred in the course of &' engineer's employment. But
neither allegations nor proof present the killing as done
to further the master's business, or as anything but a
wanton and wilful act done to satisfy the temper or spite
of the engineer. Whatever may be the law of Mississippi,
a railroad company is not liable for such an act under

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

the statutes of the United States. The only sense in
which the engineer was acting in the course of his employment was that he had received an order from Green
which it was his duty to obey-in other words that he did
a wilful act wholly outside the scope of his employment
while his employment was going on. We see nothing
in the evidence that would justify a verdict unless the
doctrine of respondeat superior applies.
As we .understand the opinion of the Supreme Court'
of Mississippi, it based its decision in part upon the assumption that liability for the engineer's act was imposed
upon the defendant by both laws, and this assumption
would be a sufficient ground for reversing the judgment.
But we should come to the same conclusion even if our
understanding .were shown to be wrong. As the record
stands, it appears to us that the case was tried upon the
warranted supposition that there was no serious controversy as to the parties having been engaged in interstate
commerce, and for that reason the defendant paid but'
slight attention to proving the fact. It seems at least not
improbable that the parties were so engaged. In such
circumstances the defendant is not to be deprived of its
rights under the law of the United States by a decision
that the fact now questioned was not adequately proved.
On such*matters we must judge for ourselves. If there
is a new trial, probably the plaintiff will be allowed to
dispute the character of the employment, if she is so advised. See Bowen 1. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 136,Fed.
306.
Judgment reversed,

