94

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Counsel for the United Siates.

260 U. S.

-(Class 2), which, as we have seen, the Secretary had full
authority to fix, and his pay was not increased during the
period for which he seeks recovery..
* This conclusion makes it unnecessary for us to consider
any other question in the record.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. BOWMAN.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 69. Argued October 17, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. A 'criminal statute dealing with acts that are directly injurious to
the Government and are capable of perpetration without regard
to particular locality,, and subjecting all who commit them to
"punishment, is to be construed as applicable to citizens of the
United States upon the high seas or in.a foreign countiy, though
there be no express declaration to that effect. P. 97.
2. Sectfion 35 of the Criminal Code, as amended October 23, 1918,
c. 194, 40 Stat. 1015, is applicable to citizens of the United States
who, on the high seas,,or in a foreign country, conspired to defraud
the United States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation,
of which the United States was the stockholder, by obtaining and
aiding to obtain the allowance and payment of a false and fraudulent claim against the Corporation, and who, in a foreign country,
made and caused such claim to be made. P. 100.
3. Penal statutes should be fairly construed, according to the legislative intent. e. 102.
4. Citizens of the United States while in a foreign country are
subject to penal laws passed by the United States to protect itself
and its property, and for infractions abroad. are triable, under Jud.
Code, § 41, in the district where they are first brought. P. 102.
287 Fed. 588, -reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court quashing an
indictment on demurrer.
Mr. Solicitot General Beck with whom Mr- Alfred A.
Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was on
tie brief, for the United States.

UNITED STATES v. BOWMAN.
94

Opinion of the Court.

No appearance for defendant in error.
AIR. CHIEF JusTiCE TAF

delivered the opinion' of the

Court.
This is a writ of error under the Criminal Appeals Act
(c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246) to review the ruling of the District Court sustaining a del'urrer of one of the defendants to an indictment for a conspiracy to defraud a corporation in which the United States was and is a stockholder, under § 35 of the Criminal Code, as amended
October 23, 1918, c. 194, 40 Stat. 1015.
During the period covered by the indictment, i. e.,
between October, 1919, and January,- 1920, the steamship
Dio belonged to the United States. The United States
owned all the stock in the United States Shipping Board
Emergency Fleet Corporation. The National Shipping
Corporation agreed to operate and manage the Dio for
the Fleet Corporation, which under the contract was to
pay for fuel, oil, labor and material used in the operation.
The Dio was on a voyage to Rio de Janeiro under this
management. Wry was her master, Bowman was her
engineer, Hawkinson. was the agent of the Standard Oil
Company at Rio de Janeiro, and Millar was a merchant
and ship repairer and engineer in Rio. Of these four,
who were the defendants in the indictment, the first three
were American citizens, and Millar was a British subject.
Johnston & Company were the agents of the National
Shipping Corporation at Rio. The indictment charged
that the plot was hatched by Wry and Bowman on board
the Dio before she reached Rio. Their plan was to order,
through Johnston & Company, and receipt for,,1000 tons
of fuel oil from the Standard Oil Company, but to take
only 600,tons aboard, and to collect cash for a delivery of
1000 tons through Johnston & Company, from the Fleet
Corporation, and then divide the money paid for the
undelivered 400 tons among the four defendants. This

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U.S.

-planwas to be, and was, made possible through the guilty
connivance of the Standard Oil agent - Hawkinson and
Millar the Rio merchant who was t6, and did collect the
money. Overt acts charged included a wireless telegram
to the agents, Johnston & Company, from.the Dio while
on the high seas ordering the 1000 tons of oil. The
Southern District of.New York was the district into which
the American, defendants were first brought and were
found, but Millar, the British defendant, has qot been
found.
The first count charged a conspiracy-by the defendants
to defraud, the Fleet Corporation in which the; United
States was a,stockholder, by obtaining And aiding to
obtain the payment and allowance of a false and, fraudu-lent claim against the Fleet Corporation. It,laid the
offense on the high seas, out of the jurisdiction of any
particular State and out of the jurisdiction of any district
of the United States, but within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, of the United States. The second count
laid the conspiracy on. the Dio on the high seas and. at
'the port of Rio -de Janeiro as -well as in the city. The
third count'laid it in the city of Rio de Janeiro. The
fouith count was for making and causing to be made in
the 'name of the Standard Oil _Company;, for payment and
approval, a, false and fraudulent claim-'against -the Fleet
Corporation in the form of an invoice for 1000 tons of
'fuel oil, of which 400 tonsw~re not delivered. This count
laid the same crime on board the Nio in the harbor of
Rio de .Janeiro. The fifth count laid it in the city and
the sixth at the port-aid in the city.-No objection was made to the indictment or any count
-of it-for lack of precision or fullness in describing all the
elements of the crimes denounced in § 35 of the Criminal
*Code as amended., The sole objection was that the crime
was committed 'without the jurisdiction of the ,United
.States or of any State thereof and on the high seas or

UNITED STATES v. BOWMAN.
94

Opinion of the Court.

within the jurisdiction of Brazil. The District Court
considered only the first count, which charged the conspiracy to have been committed on the Dio on ,the high
seas, and having held that bad for lack of jurisdiction,
a fortiori it sustained the demurrer as to the others.
The court in its opinion conceded that under many
authorities the United States as a sovereign may regulate
the ships under its flag and the conduct of its citizens
while on. those ships, and cited to this point Crapo v.
Kelly, 16 Wall. 610, 623-632; United States v. Rodgers,
150 U. S. 249, 260-1, 264-5; The Hamilton,207 U. S. 398,
403, 405; American Banana Co.v. United Fruit Co., 213
U. S. 347; Wilson v. McNamee, 102 U. S. 572, 574;
United States v. Smiley, 6 Sawy. 640,645. The court said,
however, that while private and public ships of the United
States on the high seas were constructively a part of the
territory of the United States, indeed peculiarly so as
distinguished from that of the States,, Congress had
always expressly indicated it when it"intended that its
laws should be operative on the high seas. The court
concluded that because jurisdiction of criminal offenses
must be conferred upon United States courts and could
not be inferred, and because § 35, like all the other sections of c. 4, contains no reference to the high seas as a
part of the locus of the offenses defined by it, as the sections in cc. 11 and 12 of the Criminal Code do, § 35 must
be construed not to extend to acts committed on the high
seas. It confirmed its conclusion by the statement that
§ 35 had never been invoked to punish offenses denounced
if committed on the high seas or in a foreign country.
We have in this case a question of statutory construction. The necessary locus, when not specially defined,
depends upon the purposb of Congress as evinced by the
description and nature of the crime and upon the territorial limitations upon the power and jurisdiction of a
45646-23----7

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

government to punish crime under the law of nations.
Crimes against private individuals or their property; like
assaults. murder, burglary, larceny, robbery, arson,' embezzlement and frauds of all kinds, which affect the peace
and good order of the community; must of course be committed within the territorial jurisdiction of the government where it may properly exercise it, If punishment
of them is to be extended to include those committed outside of the strict territorial jurisdiction, it is natural for
Congress to say so in the statute, and failure to do so will
negative the purpose of Congress in this regard. We have
an example of this in the attempted application of the
prohibitions of the Anti-Trust Law to acts done by citizens of the United States against other such citizens in a
foreign country. American Banana Co. v. United Fruit
Co.,' 213 U. S. 347. - That' was, a civil case, but as the
statute is criminal as well as civil, it presents an analogy.
But the same rule of interpretation should not be applied to criminal statutes which are, as a class, not logically dependent on their locality for the Government's
jurisdiction, but'are enacted because of the right of the
Government to defend itself against obstruction, or fraud
wherever perpetrated, especially if committed by its own
citizens, officers or agents. Some such offenses can only
be committed within the territorial jurisdiction of the.
Government because of the local, acts required to constitute them. Others are such that to limit their locus to
the. strictly territorial jurisdiction would be greatly to
cuikail the scope and usefulness of the statute and leave
open a large immunity for frauds as' easily committed by
citizens on the high seas and in foreign countries as at
home. In such cases, Congress has not thought it necessary to make specific provision in. the law that the locus
shall include the high seas and foreign countries, but
allows it to be inferred from the nature of the. offense.
Many of these occur in c. 4, which bears the title " Offenses

UNITED STATES v. BOWMAN.
94

99

Opinion of the Court.

against the operations of the Government." Section 70.
of that chapter punishes whoever as consul knowingly
certifies a false invoice. Clearly the locus of this crime
as intended by Congress- is in a foreign country and certainly the foreign country in which he discharges his official duty could not object to the trial in a United States
court of a United States consul for crime of this sort
committed within its borders. Forging or altering ship's
papers is made a crime by § 72 of c. 4. It would be going
too far to say that because Congress does not fix any
locus it intended to exclude the high seas in respect of
this crime. The natural inference from the character of
the offense is that the sea would be a probable place for
its commission. Section 42 of c. 4 punishes enticing
desertions from the naval service. Is it possible thatCongress did not intend by this to include such enticing
done aboard ship on the high sea. or in a foreign port,
where it would be most likely to be done? Section 39
punishes bribing a United States officer of the civil, military or naval service to violate his duty or to aid in committing a fraud on the United States. It is hardly reasonable to construe this not to include such offenses when the
bribe is offered to a consul, ambassador, an army or a naval
officer in a foreign country or on the high seas, whose
duties are being 'performed there and when his connivance at such fraud must occur there. So, too, § 38
of c. 4 punishes the wilfully doing or aiding to do any act
relating to the bringing in, custody, sale or other disposi,
tion of property captured as prize, with intent to defraud,
delay or injure the United States or any captor or claimant
of such property. This would naturally often occur at
sea, and Congress could not have meant to confine .it to
the land of the United States. Again, in § 36 of c. 4, it is
made a crime to steal, embezzle, or knowingly apply to
his own use ordnance, arms, ammunition, clothing, subsistence, stores, money or other property of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Couit.

260 U. S

States furnished or to be used for military or naval service.
It would hardly be reasonable to hold that if any one, .
certainly if a citizen of the United States, were to steal
or embezzle such property which may properly and lawfully be in the custody of army or naval officers either
in foreign countries, in foreign ports or on .the high seas,
it would not be in such places an offense which Congress
intended to punish by this section.
What is true of-these sections in this regard is true of
§ 35, under which this indictment was drawn, We give
it in full in the margin. 1
'Section 35 of the Criminal Code, as amended October 23, 1918.
c. 194, 40 Stat. 1015, is as follows:
Whoever shall make or cause to be made or present or cause to be
presented, for payment or approval, to or by any person or officer in
the civil, military, or naval service of the United States, or any
department thereof, or any corporation in which the United States
of America is a stockholder, any claim upon or against the Government of the United States, or any, department or officer thereof, or
any corporation in'which the United States of America is a'stockholder, knowing such claim to be false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or
whoever, for the purpose of obtaining or aiding to obtain the payment
or approval of such claim, or for the purpose and with the intent of
cheating and swindlinj or defrauding the Government of the United
States, or any department thereof, or any corporation in which the
United States of America is a stockholder, shall knowingly and willfully falsify or conceal or cover up by any trick, scheme, or device a
material fact, or make or cause to'be made any false or fraudulent
statements or representations, or make or use or cause to be made or
used any false bill, receipt, voucher; roll, aciount, claim, certificate,
affidavit, oi; deposition knowing the same to contain any fraudulent
or fictitious statement or entry; or whoever shall take and carry away
or-take for his own use, (,r for-the use of another, with intent to steal
or purloin, any personal property of the United States, or any branch
or department thereof, or any corporation in which the United States
of America is a stockholder; or whoever shall enter into any agreement, combination, or conspiracy to defraud the Government of the
United States, or any' department or officer thereof, or any corporation in which the United States of America is a stockholder, by*

UNITED STATES v. BOWMAN.
94

101

Opinion of the Court.

It is directed generally against whoever presents a false
claim against the United States, knowingit to be such,
to any ofcer of the civil, military or naval service or to
any department thereof, or any corporation in which the
United States is a stockholder, or whoever connives at
the same by the use of any cheating deviee, or whoever
enters a conspiracy to do these things. The section was
amended in 1918 to include a corporation in which the
United States owns stock. This was evidently intended
to protect the Emergency Fleet Corporation in which the
obtaining or aiding to obtain the payment or allowance of any false
or fraudulent claim; and whoever, having charge, possession, custody,
or control of any money or other public property used or to be used
in the military or naval service, with intent to defraud the United
States, or any department thereof, or any corporation in which the
United States of America is a- stockholder, or willfully to conceal such
money or other property, shall deliver or cause to be delivered to
any person having authority to receive the same any amount of such
money or other property less than that for which he received a
certificate or took a receipt; or whoever, being authorized to make
or deliver any certificate, voucher, receipt, or other paper certifying
the receipt of arms, ammunition, provisions, clothing, or other property so used or to be used, shall make or deliver the same to any
other person without a full knowledge of the truth of the facts stated
therein and with intent to defraud the United States, or any department thereof, or any corporation in which the United States of
America is a stockholder, shall be fined not more than $10,000 or
imprisoned not more than ten years, or both. And whoever shall
purchase, or receive in pledge, from any person any arms, equipment,
ammunition, clothing, military stores, or other property furnished by
the United States, under a clothing allowance or otherwise, to any
soldier, sailor, officer, cadet, or midshipman in the military or naval
service of the United. States or of the National Guard or Naval
Militia, or to any person accompanying, serving, or retained with the
land or naval forces and subject to military or naval law, having
knowledge or reason to believe that the property has been taken from
the possession of the United States or furnished by the United States
under such allowance, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned
not more than two years, or both.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.'

260 U. S.

United States was the sole stockholder, from fraud of this
character. That Corporation was expected to. engage in,
and did engage in, a most extensive ocean transportation
business and its ships were seen in every great port of the
world open during, the war. The same section of the
statute protects the arms, ammunition, stores and property of the army and navy from fraudulent devices of a
similar character. We can not suppose that when Congress enacted the statute or amended it, it did not have
in mind that a wide field for such frauds upon the Government was in private and public vessels of the United
States on the high seas and in forei~m ports and beyond
the land jurisdiction of the United States, and therefore
intend to include them in the section.
Nor can the much- quoted rule that criminal statutes
are to be strictly construed avail. As said in United
States v. Lacher, 134 U. S. 624, 629, quoting with approval
from Sedgwick, Statutory and Constitutional Law, 2d ed.,
282:, "penal provisions, like all others, are to be fairly
construed according to the legislative intent as expressed
in the enactment." They are not to be strained either
way. It needs no forced construction to interpret § 35 as
we have done.
Section 41 of the Judicial Code provides that "the trial
of all offenses committed upon the high seas, or elsewhere
out of the jurisdiction of any particular State or district,
shall be in the district where the offender is fou4d, or into
which he is first brought." The three defendants who
-were.found in New York were citizens of the United States
and were certainly subject to such laws as it might pass to
protect itself and its property. Clearly it is no offense to
the dignity or right of sovereignty of Brazil to hold them
for this crime against the government to which they owe
allegiance. The other defendant is a subject of Great
Britain.. He has never been apprehended, and it will be
time enough to consider what, if any, jurisdiction the Dis-

ORTEGA CO. v. TRIAY.
94

103.

Statement of the Case.

trict Court below has to punish him when he is brought
to'trial."
The judgment of the District Court is reversed, with
directions to overrule the demurrer and for further proceedings.
Reversed.
RECEIVER OF"
ORTEGA COMPANY v. TRIAY,
JACKSONVILLE TRACTION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 75. Argued October 18, 19, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. Under legislation empowering it to make reasonable and just
rates to be observed by all railroad companies and common
carriers in the State, the Railroad Commission of Florida has
power to authorize a railroad company to increase its fare. P. 108.
2. Section 30 of Article XVI of the Florida constitution, in investing
the legislature "with full power to pass laws . . . to prevent . . .
excessive charges by persons and corporations engaged as common
carriers in transporting persons and property," did not by implication withhold power to authorize increases. P. 108.
3. A covenant to operate at a certain fare, made by the vendee in
consideration of a sale of an" electric -railroad, cannot prevent a
change of fare directed by public authority, acting in the public
interest, under laws existing when the covenant was made.
Affirmed.

from a decree of the District Court refusing a
preliminary injunction and dismissing the bill, in a suit
to enforce a covenant for the operation of an electric railroad for a specified fare, and to restrain the appellee from
collecting a higher fare as allowed by a public commission.
APPEAL

Mr. Herman Ulmer and Mr. W. T. Stockton, with
whom Mr. Geo. C. Bedell was on the brief, for appellant.

