ST. LOUIS CO. v. PRENDERGAST CO.
459

469

Statement of the Case.

in Charleston& Western CarolinaRy. Co. v. Thompson,
234 U. S. 576, according thereby freedom of transportation to the possessor of a pass, and giving assurance to
the railroad company that.its gratuity will not be given
the consequences of compensated right-and its incident
obligations, and be a means of exacting from the company indefinite damages. - In this case the prayer was
for $25,000-the recovery was for $8,000. Circumstances
might have made it the larger sum-and this, it is the
contention and decision, is the determination of state
laws which could neither permit nor forbid the gift. We
cannot assent. The pass proceeded from the federal
act; it is controlled necessarily in its incidents and consequences by the federal act to the exclusion of state
laws and state policies, and such is the effect of the cited
cases.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
ST. LOUIS MALLEABLE CASTING COMPANY v.
GEORGE C. PRENDERGAST CONSTRUCTION
I
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 154. Argued December 7, 8, 1922.-Decided January 2, 1923.
An owner of property within a special seiver district, who connected
his premises with the sewer when constructed and availed himself of its benefits, is estopped from maintaining a suit in which,
upon the ground that the manner of constituting the district and
apportioning the cost infringed his rights under the Fourteenth
Amendment, he seeks to cancel the tax bill isued to the contractor
against his property. P. 472.
288 Mo. 197, affirmed.
ERROR to a decree of the Supreme Court of Missouri,
affirming a decree dismissing a suit brought by the plain-

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

tiff in error to cancel a sewer tax bill issued against its
property to the defendant construction company.
Mr. Lambert E. Walther, with whom Mr. John S.
Leahy,and Mr. Walter H._ Saunders were on the briefs, for
plaintiff in, error.
Mr. Win. K. Koerner, with whom Mr. Jas. R. Kinealy
and Mr. Wm. B. Kinealy were on the'brief, for defendant

in error.

-

Mn. JUSTICE McKE

xrA

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
-Suit in equity to have declared invalid and canceled, a
tax bill issued against the property of plaintiff in 6rror,
herein designated as plaintiff, for the construction of
sewers in Baden Sewer District Number Two, City of
St. Louis.
There is a charge of excess and resultant invalidity in
the tax bill because the taxing district (sewer district)
does not contain- tracts of land which it should contain
and that are within its drainage area.
The Fourteenth Amendment is invoked agai'nst the
tax: (1) In that the limits of the sewer district and the
apportionment of the cost between the several lots or
parcels of, land and their respective owners, without a
hearing being accorded, deny plaintiff due process of law.
(2) In the exclusion from the district of tracts of land as
abbve'stated, plaintiff is denied due process of law and the
equal Protection of the law.
There is an, elaborate detail of the particulars upon
which the cbarges are alleged to rest. The particulars
include the charter of the city and the various ordinances.

passed in executing its purpose, the action of the Board of
Aldermen, and the action of the Board of Public Service
in-execution of the direction to contract for the construetion of the sewers, and when constructed, to cause the

ST. LOUIS CO. v. PRENDERGAST CO.
469

'471

Opinion of the Court.

entire expense to be computed, to levy and assess such
expense as a special tax in accordance with the requirements of the charter, and to issue a special tax bill
against each parcel .of ground liable.
And it is alleged that the defendant was awarded,
under the requirement and directions of the ordinances,
the contract, and received from the city special tax bills
as authorized by the charter and ordinances, among which
was one issued against the property of plaintiff for
$9,168.86 which, it is alleged, purports to confer upon
the holder thereof a lien authorized by the charter of
the city.
The trial court, after reciting that it found "in favor
of the defendant on the issues joined" and that the plaintiff was "not entitled to the relief prayed," adjudged and
decreed that the suit be dismissed.
The Supreme Court affirmed the decree. The court
reviewed at length the pleadings of plaintiff and said
that the plaintiff made "a very plausible case by the allegations of its petition, but it is not supported by either
the evidence in the case or finding of the trial court."
The conclusion of the court, therefore, was that there
was no arbitrary or discriminating exclusion of property
from the district that was within the benefit of the sewer.
And further, that "Defendant's evidence tended to show:
The sewer, for proportionate part of cost of which appellant's ground was assessed, had been fully completed
when this suit, was brought, and appellant bad connected
its said premises with this sewer and was in actual enjoyment of the benefits thereof. [Italics ours.] The evidence fails to show any act of commission or omission
on the part of the contractor. The appellant does not
question the utility of the sewer. Yet, without offering
to pay any part of its cost, appellant comes into a court of
equity and asks that. the entire assessment against its
property be canceled."

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U.S.

The conclusion, in effect, was that the fact of cdnnecting its premises with the sewer estopped plaintiff from
denying the -validity of the tax bill, and the conclusion
was supported by the citation of a number of cases, including Wight v. Davidson, 181 U. S. 371.
The evidence leaves no doubt of the fact thlat plaintiff,
during the construcion 9 f the distrct sefer, made application for a license to connect with it, and afterward did
connect with it. The only reply that counsel make is
that the, c6urt meant nothing more by its conclusion- and
the cases cited "than the statement of an abstract legal
principle" which was "in no way connected up with
the evidence." It is further said that "Nowhere in the
*statement does the Supreme Court find any facts constituting an estoppel."
The comment is not justified. Our quotations from
the court's opinion establish the contrary, and that the
plaintiff did something more than stand by and make no
-protest; it availed- of, the benefits of the sewer. The
state cases cited are, therefore, not in point. Nor is
O'Brien v. Wheelock, 184 U. S. 450, 489, of relevant consideration. It is not attempted here, as there, to enforce
a law as of validity by estoppel to particular persons,
though invalid, under the constitution of the State, to all
of the world besides.
Finally, it is said that if the Supreme Court had intended to hold plaintiff estopped from raising the questions under the Federal Constitution, the case would have
been peremptorily disposed of without discussing or ruling against those questions. And "Neither is it conceivable," it is further said, " that the petition for a writ of
error to this court would have been granted by the Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court of Missouri, if thecase had
been decided against plaintiff in error upon a question of
local law." The propositions are not estimable in meaning except there is concession in them that if the estoppel

GALVESTON WHARF CO. v. GALVESTON.
469

473

Syllabus.

was ruled it was adequate to justify the court's decree.
It was ruled. The effect is not lessened because the court
ruled as well on the constitutional questions. As we have
seen, the court said that the "plausible case" made by
plaintiff "by the allegations of its petition" was " not
supported by either the evidence in the case or finding
of the trial court." Whether this conclusion received or
needed aid from the force the court considered should be
assigned to the establishment of the sewer district as furnishing an indisputable presumption of notice, is not ab-solutely clear. Nor is it clear whether the court considered that notice of the meeting of the Board of Public
Service and opportunity to be heard before the Board
satisfied the constitutional requirements urged by
plaintiff.
However, we are not called upon to resolve the uncertainty, if any there be, in the grounds of the court's ruling
upon the constitutional questions. It is enough for our
action that the court considered plaintiff estopped to contest the validity of the sewer or the validity of the tax
which was imposed by connecting its premises with the
sewer. In that conclusion we concur.
Decree affirmed.
GALVESTON WHARF COMPANY ET AL. v, CITY
OF GALVESTON ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 19. Argued December 7, 1922.-Decided January 2, 1923.
1. The power of eminent domain cannot be contracted away; and
a contract of that kind is not within the protection of the Contract
Clause of the Federal Constitution. P. 476.
2. A bill relying on the contrary hypothesis does not state a substantial federal question within the jurisdiction of the District Court.
P. 476.
Affirmed.

