FOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
662

Syllabus.

"

the circumstances in respect of the character and value of
the lands, the wildness and remoteness of the region and
the difficulties surrounding the work of .the surveyors,

the failure to run the lines with more particularity was
not unreasonable and we are constrained to agree with
the lower court in holding that the waters of the lake and
not the traverse line constitute the boundary.

The decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals in all the
cases are, therefore,

Affirmed.

FOLEY, ADMIINISTRATRIX OF GATHMANN, vi
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL VROM1 THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 203. Argued January 12, 1923.-Decided January 29, 1923.
1. G wrote to the Navy Department, with respect to his invention
for drying materials, that, in consideration of the Department's
building a testing apparatus at its own e-xpense, he gave it the
option of using the method, if it found it to its advantage, by
paying so much for each pound of material so dried. The Department accepted the proposition, saying that it had ordered an
experimental apparatus on G's plan, which would be tested and,
if it worked satisfactorily to the Bureau of Ordnance, would pay
him as proposed. After the test, the Bureau notified G that the
test proved unsatisfactory and was abandoned. Held:
(a) Not a contract that the Department would use the method, but
an option, or at most a conditional obligation subject to be terminated by the Department when the test proved unsatisfactory.
P. 675.
(b) By remaining silent and inactive for five years after receiving
notice from the bureau that the relations between them were
terminated, G acquiesced.. P. 675.
2. Patents 763,3S7 and 763,3S8, issued to Gathmann, for a miethod
of drying materials, with the aid of a "vaporous atmosphere"
were either anticipated, or not infringed, by the "closed-circuit
method" used by the Government in this case for drying smokeless
powder. P. 676.
56 Ct. Clms. 303, affirmed.

668

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U: S.

APPEAL fromn a judgment of the Court of Claims.
Mr. Charl1 J. Pence, with whom Mr. L. T. Michener
and Mr. P. d. Michener were on the-brief, for appellant.
Mr. Melville D. Church, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beek- and Air. Assistant Attorney General Lovett
were on the brief, for the tUnited States.
MR. JUSTICE MCIENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appeal from judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing petition of appellant in which she prayed judgment
against the United States for the sum of $236,750.
A summary of the allegations of the petition is as
follows:
..
The Government was engaged in the manufacture of
smokeless powder at its station at Indian Head, Maryland. Gathmann had under consideration, with - view
-to application for patents, methods of drying, the materials of the powder, and in consequence of conversations
with the Chief of the Bureau of Ordnance of the Navy
Department, lie made to thel Bureau the following proposition:
, "1839 Vernon Ave., N.W.,
Washington, D. C.,.March 24, 1903.
SIR:
The undersigned has made an invefition
'Method

of
drying materials,' for whicli patent has been filed Feb. 9,
1903, Series No. 142,653.
Now, in consideration of the Navy Department building.an apparatus for testing this method, without expense
to me, I hereby give the Navy Department the option of
ising my method of drying naterials, if they find it to
their advantage, by paying-to me, my heirs, or my legal

FOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
667

669

Opinion of the Court.

epresentatives, $0.01 (one cent) for each pound of material dried by-my method.
Very respectfully,
LOUIS GATHMANN.
Admiral O'Neil,
Chief of Bureau of Ordnance."
He delivered with the proposition a plan or drawing for
an experimental apparatus.
To the proposition the Chief of the Bureau of Ordnance
replied as follows:
"Address Bureau of Ordnance, Navy Department
and refer to No. 3585.
Washington, D. C,, March 26, 1903.
SmR:
Referring to your communication of March 24th, 1903,
offering the Navy Department the option of using your
method of drying materials, on payment of one cent per
pound on materials so dried:
The Bureau has to inform you that it accepts your
proposition, and has ordered one experimental apparatus
for drying smokeless powder, constructed in accordance
with plan submitted by you. This apparatus will be
tested without expense to you, and, if it works satisfactorily to the Bureau, the Bureau agrees to pay you, your
heirs or legal representatives, one cent for each pound of
smokeless powder dried by the method covered by your
application or applications filed or to be fied with the
U. S. Patent Office, provided a patent or patents is or are
issued to you therefor."
Respectfully,
CHARLES O'NEIL,
-Chief of Bureau of Ordnance.
Mr. Louis Gathmann,
1839 Vernon Ayenue,
' WasIngton, D. C."

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion,of the Court.

260 U. S.

At the time of :the conversation of Gathmann with the
Chief of Ordnance and his proposition and the reply to it
Gathmann contemplated applying for patents for his
methods, and on February 9, 1903, and, subsequent dates,
he made applications for patents and patents were issued
to him for his methods, and at various times from April,
1909, to April, 1915, the Government made use of the
processes and methods covered by the patents hi the
manufacture of smokeless powder to the amount of
23,675,061 pounds thereof; and became indebted to the
estate of Gathmann in the sum of the petition, to wit,
$236,750.
A general traverse was filed to the claim. Upon- the
issues thus formed, and upon considering the -evidence
taken, the Court of Claims made findings of fact, and
from them deduced, "as conclusions of law, that appellant
was not entitled to recovery and dismissed her petition.
.The" court decided that the proposition made by Gathmann's communication and the reply thereto presented
an option only, and iot a contract, and that it was terminated by the Bureau by a letter addressed to Gathmann, October 14, 1904, which was as follows:
"Referring to your apparatus for-drying powder, installed at the naval proving ground for trial: The bureau
forwards. herewith a copy of the report made by the
inspector of ordnance 'in charge bf that station for your
information. After carefully considering this report the
bureau is of opinion that this apparatus has failed to
demonstrate anything that would warrant further experiment with it, and the bureau has instructed the inspectori
of ordhance in charge of the naval proving ground that,
when the drier can hold no more samples the whole
amount be put in the dry house until dried to the proper
volatiles."
The court decided, ibesides, that the Government had
not used Gathmann's methods. Appellant attacks both

FOLEY. v. UNITED STATES.
667

671

Opinion of the. Court.

rulings but concentrates her attention upon the -first. The
existence of the second, she assumes, is demonstrated by
the physical laws of nature, of which the court will take
judicial notice.
The. specifications of error against the fist ruling are
as follows:
"(1) The letters made an express contract of license
for the full term of the patents; (2) the license could not
be renounced or ended in any manner, except by-mutual"
consent or the fault of Mr. Gathmann; (3) he had the
.right after the receipt of the'letter of October 14, 1904,
to regard the license as still in force and to sue for the
unpad royalties, the Government having used the inventions thereafter; (4) what was said prior to the' letters of
Match 24th and 26th, 1903, should not be considered; (5)
the Court of Claims should not have considered the development and state of the art prior to the issuance of the
patents; (6) the licensee is e~topped from denying the
validity of the patents."
Toestimate these contentions, the'findings of the court
must be considered. A summary of them, stated narratively, is as follows:
The material of smokeless powder in its first stages is
in a plastic condition, containing about 40% of moisture due to the presence of ether and. alcohol, called the
"solvent."
To make the powder ready for use the
solvent must be reduced to between 4% and 7% according
to caliber. The process requires several months' time.
The elements of the solvent were'expensive and it became
an object to the Government and its manufacture of the
powder to save them for re-use.
As early as 1900 the Government had used along with
other methods of drying what was known as the closedcircuit method of drying and solvent recovery.' In this
method there is, generally speaking, a heating chamber, a
powder chamber and a condensing chamber, with the

672

-OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the- Court.

260 U.S.

necessary connecting pipes or conduits ana means for
effecting circulation of the air in the circuit, as by fan or
by gravity.. -In- operation the warm air from the heating
chamber passes on to the powder chamber, where it absorbs solvent -from the "_green" powder, then passes on
to the condensing chamber, where the solvent carried by
it is condensed 'to liquid form, the ,air then passing.on to
the heating chamber again for Teheating' and repetition.
0
of the.cycle.
When the powder is newly made, or- "green;" the
solvent is given off rapidly; but aSthe percentage of the
solvent in the mass isreduced, it volatilizes less rapidly and
comes .off less freely. When the-solveit is reduced to
about 10%, this closed-circuit process is discontinued and
the drying of the powder is completed in the-ordinary
drying houses.
The plans -of-the apparatus.used by the Government
in 1900 were secured fr~om
Mthe California Powder Works,
of California, by whom the apparatus was understood to
have been originated It-illustrates "the c61sed-cirduit
method.'
Louis Gathmann was an inventor and was interested
,in improving the- method of expediting the manufacture
of smokeless powder and had discussed the question with
Admiral O'Neil. The Government at times had two
systems; one for merely drying'by hot air, -and the, other
for both drying and recovery of the solvent. Gathmann
claimed a method that -would do -both in a very- much
shorter time and proposed that a test-be made. -The-letters we have quoted grew out of the conferences between
Gathmann and Admiral O'Neil and Gathmann's repre•sentation furnished the chief inducement'to the Admiral
-to enter into the agreement shown by the letters..
Pursant to the agreement or option shown -by the
lett6rs. the United States under thedirection and supervision of Gathmann. at its own expense, constructed and

FOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
667

Opinion of the Court.

exhaustively tested at its Indian Head (Maryland)
powder plant the experimental apparatus and method
so proposed by Gathmann. The apparatus and method
were substantially the same as those shown-and described
in Gathmann's letters patent.
The tests began in October, 1903, and continued until
October, 1904, during which time reports of the resulths
obtained by the tests, comparative and otherwise,, were
periodically made by the officer making the tests, comparison being made with results obtained from concurrent operations under the regular Government method.
In making the tests, the instructions and wishes of
Gathmann were complied with except that he desired a
,continuous and unbroken operation, though he had acceded at first to the closing down of the operation of
the Government plant on Sundays. His desire was not
acceded to.
In the tests the time required for drying the powder
was not reduced, nor did it appear that the former
methods used and results obtained by the Government
in drying and solvent recovery were otherwise imprbved upon, nor did Gathmann's apparatus.work satisfactorily to the Bureau of Ordnance, and at the close of
the tests, Gathmann wag so notified by a letter from
the Acting Chief of Ordnance.
No change was made in the Government's solvent
recovery and drying processes as a result of the test of
Gathmann's method.
On June 28, 1904,"a patent, No. 763,387, in pursuance
to his application of Febrdiary 9, 1903, was issued to
Gathmann. On the same day there was' granted to
Gathmann and his assignees of a fourth interest therein,
United States patent No. 763,388.. -These patents and the
applications upon which they were .granted were the
applications and patents in contemplation by Gathmann, and Admiral O'Neil in. their respective letters of
March 24th and 26th, 1903.
45046°-2:---3

3

674

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

.Beginning in 1907 the Navy Department at various
times 'in the manufacture of smokeless powder used drying and solvent-recovery apparatuses and methods.They are illustrated by figures attached to the findings.
From August 1, 1910, to 1916, an apparatus known as the
box-tyije method was used in which "the circulation is
gravity circulation, induced wholly by the heating and
the cooling of the air in the different parts of the circuit." It is not necessary to reproduce the illustrations,
and the processes need but little explanation. They
are all of th.e closed-circuit method of drying and solvent
recovery. All have a heating chamber, a powder chamber
and a condensing chamber with connecting pipes or
conduits and means of effecting circulation of air in the
circuit, as by fan or by gravity. It is not necessary to
compare their mechanisms. We think that the apparatus
received by the Bureau- from the California Powder
Works did not differ in essential structure from them and,
of course, it differed, from that of Gathmann's apparatus. And differed frQm them necessarily, otherwise
Gathmann would have had no purpose in submitting a
proposition to the Bureau. The difference .was in the
method-amount of -vapor, means "provided," to quote
the patent,*"to produce a vapor-laden atmosphere, in the
dicring chamber" and ." so as to maintain ", to quote the
patent further, "a substantially vapor-saturated atmosphere in the drying chamber nearly to the end of the
operation of drying
" In other words, the vapor
from the. moisture of the materials was added to " by
admitting vapor as steam."
Considering the methods, their illustrations, and the
letters exchanged by Gathmann with the Bureau of Ordnance, the conclusion of the Court of Claims was that a
contract was not created. "At most," the conclusion was,
"a mere option was granted by Gathmann to the Gov-'
"ernment to use his method if found suitable after mak-

FOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
667

Opinion of the Court.

ing a test of certain apparatus furnished by him, which he:-;continued to improve or change." And again, "There
xVas never any agreement between the parties to use
Gathmann's method, and all we have is, as. has been
stated, an option granted, declined, and terminated."
This conclusion appellant resists, and insists here, as
she insisted in the Court of Claims, that a contract was
created with its comprehensive and determining effect,
it having continued, is the contention, after the date
of the letters. That a contract existed or continued we
cannot concede to appellant. But whether option or
contract, we think it was terminated. There was an
election given to the Government to be exercised by it
according to the judgment of its officers of a test of the
"experimental apparatus" submitted by Gathmann.
The test was made, judgment was exercised and its effect
notified to Gathmann in the letter of October 14, 1904.
Gathmann's letter gave "the option of using" his
"method of drying materials, if they [Navy Department] find it to their advantage, by paying to" him, his
heirs or legal representatives "0.01 (one cent) for each
pound of material dried by" his "method."
Clearly, therefore; there was a conditional proposal
and an acceptance upon the condition that the apparatus, after test, should work "satisfactorily to the
Bureau." It did not so work and the Bureau so declared
to Gathmann.
It is true that there was no response by Gathmann to
the letter of the Bureau. His silence, however, was
tantamount to acquiescence. It does not appear when
that silence was broken. The original petition was filed
in this case April 17, 1915, that is, more than tefi. years
after the Bureau's action in declining the proposal. We
think that he could not keep the Government in obligation, uncertainty and restraint all that time, or even
until April, 1909, the first date alleged of the .u.eby the

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
-Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

Government of his apparatus. 'He, therefore, must be
considered as having accepted the decision of the 'Bureau
and the termination of the relation created by the letters
whether it was obligation or option, "'right" or, privilege." Responding, therefore, to the contention of appellant that a contract (license, to use appellant's word)
can "not be renounced or ended in any manner, except
by mutual consent or the fault of Gathmann, ' "we think
there was such consent-that which must be considered
as tantamount' to consent.'
We do not think it is necessary to review the- claims
of the patents and-wherein'either of them is an advance
upon the uses and knowledge of the world, and, -necessarily, including the: methods-of 'the Government. The
Court of Claims 'has done this and, we think) so satisfactorily,' that we content ourselves by referring'to its
opinion. We need 'only to say that Gathmafin emphasized the distinction 'of his patents from all that preceded
them as using a "-vaporous or vapor-laden atmosphere,"
and that such necessarily existed or Will occur in the
methods used by the Government.-It is counsel's contention that it is "ir evitable that
vaporous and vapor-laden atmosphere wo6i be created
the instant the heated air came in contact with the green
powder, and would continue vaporous and vapor-laden
until all the alcohol and, ether were extracted from the
powder or the powder be removed from the drier." And
of t!his, 'it is asserted, this Court takes, judicial notice as
"the law of physics," and the further assertion is that,
"Of course this contact of the heated air with the alcohol
and ether caused the air to become vapor laden whether
the *defendant wished it or not." The assertions prove
too much. They leav -the patents without basis and
the distinction they express -and dwell on as merely
verbal. If, the- asserted- result was inevitable in the
method of the patents, it was inevitable in the method

CONLEY v. BARTON.
667

Opinion of the Court.

in use prior to the patents, and, we repeat, the patents
are left without justification.
The conclusion, therefore, must be that if the methods
of the patents are different from the prior art by reason
of the "initial vapor-laden atmosphere by admitting
,vapor as steaiii" the Government does not use it; if
that be not its distinction, and the methods of the prior
art inevitably have it, the patents are no advance upon
that art and are invalid.
Judgment affirmed.
CONLEY v. BARTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MAINiE.

No. 193. Submitted January 9, 1923.--Decided January 29,4923.
The obligation of a mortgage contract under which the right of
redemption is barred after lapse of one year from entry and
taking possession by the mortgagee to foreclose,, is'not impaired
by a state law, enacted after the date of the mortgage but before breach of condition, and requiring the mortgagee, if he
would sustain such a foreclosure, to make and record, within three
months after its completion, an affidavit of the facts. P. 680.
119 Me. 581, affirmed.

ERRoR to a judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court of
Maine, affirming a judgment for the plaintiff in a suit to
redeem property from a mortgage foreclosure.
Mr. F. A. Hegarty and Mr. J. B. Fiynn .fxr plaintiff,
in error.
Mr. Frank H. Haskell for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Suit to redeem from a mortgage which was executed by
defendant in error to one George W. Towle to secure his

