LEDERER v. STOCKTON.
I

Statement of the Case.

parties thereto as follows: The State of Wyoming one-

third, the State of Colorado one-third, and the two corporate defendants jointly one-third.
And it is further considered, ordered and decreed that
the clerk of this Court do transmit to the chief magistrates
of the States of Colorado and Wyoming copies of this
decree duly authenticated under the seal of this Court.

2. In view of the modifications hereby made in the
decree of June 5, 1922, the petition for rehearing in this
cause is hereby denied.

LEDERER, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE FIRST DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, v. STOCKTON, SOLE SURVIVING TRUSTEE OF DERBYSHIRE, DECEASED.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS- FOR THE
THIRD CRCUIT.

No. 16. Argued October 5, 1922.-Decided October 16, 1922.
The Income Tax Law of 1916, §§ 2 (b) and 11 (a), taxes income
from trust estates, but exempts income received by any corporation organized and operated exclusively for charitable purposes no
part of the net income of which inures to the benefit of any private
stockholder or individual. Where a fund was held by a testamentary trustee to pay an annuity and, upon the annuitant's death to
transfer the fund and accumulated interest to a hospital corporation, and the trustee lent the money to the hospital upon mortgage
security receiving back only interest sufficient to satisfy his administrative charges and the annuity, held, that the remaining.
income, retained by the hosliital, was not taxable. P. 8.
266 Fed. 676, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals affirming a judgment recovered by the respondent
Stockton, in an action to recover back money paid by him
as income taxes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.Argument for Petitioner.

260 U. S.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Ottinger, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Charles H. Weston,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General. were, on the
brief, for petitioner.
The provision in § 11 (a) of the Act of September 8,
1916, exempting from tax " income received "by a charity,
does not apply to trust income which the trustee is required'to add to'the principal of a fund which is to'go
ultimately to a charity.
The trust, as interpreted by the highest court of 1ennsylvania, is an active one which can not be terminated,
even.with the consent of all the parties in interest. The
Pennsylvania Hospital does not-have legal title to the
trust income or any right to its immediate possession, nor
any control over its administration or mnanagement. The
income of the trust. is therefore not "received" by the
Hospital, whether this word as used in § 11 (a) is interpreted as covering income to which a charity obtains legal
title, or income to which it obtains the right of immediate
possession, or income as to -which it.enjoys some right of
control or management.
The fact that the trustee lends the balance of the trust
income, after payment of the annuity, to the Hospital
under a blanket mortgage and bond. given by the Hospital, the Hospital paying interest on advances thus made,
does not alter the situation. The moneys thus received
by the Hospital are received by it, not as income,. but as
mon6 r borrowed, for which it is legally indebted to the
trustee and, which it may be required to repay to him.
Certainly; the trustee and the Hospital can not enter into
any voluntary arrangement which-wiIl exempt from" tax
income otherwise taxable.
The fact that § 11 (a) is included in a part of the law
dealing exclusively with the tax on corporations and-that
it immediately follows § 10, which levies the tax on corporations, -indicates that the ex6fiption accorded by § 11

LEDERER v. STOCKTON.
3

5

Argument for Petitioner.

(a) was intended to apply solely to the taxes imposed
by § 10. If this view be correct, § 11 (a) has-no appli-cation to taxes imposed, as in the present case, under
§
(b) in a part of the law dealing with the tax.on
individuals., But, even if this construction be not accepted, the tax exemption given in § 11 (a) with reference to "income received" can scarcely be broader in
meaning or have any different scope than the tax imposed
upon "income received" in § 10. Maryland Casualty
Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 342, 346.
This decision as to what constitutes income "received"
by. a corporation is fully applicable to the Income Tax
Act of 1916, which even more explicitly than the Income
Tax Act of 1913 taxes the income ' received" by a corporation within the taxable year. Since, therefore, the mere
possibility, probability or certainty of future payments is
not "income received" upon which an'income tx is imposed, the exemption from tax of "incoife received" by
a charitable corporation can not extend to income received by a third person as to which there is a possibility,
probability, or even certainty that it will be paid to a
charitable corporation at some future date.
The fact that the Act of 1916 did not make any exemption in favor of income accumulated in a trust fund to go
ultimately to a charity is entirely consistent with the
basis upon which Congress in that act provided for the
taxation of trust income. Congress there clearly expressed its intention of taxing the income of trust .estates
without regard for the character or interest of the ultimate beneficiaries of the estate. The tax was upon the
income of the estate as such.
The provisions of § 219 (b) of the Income Tax Act of
1918, which authorized income permanently set aside for
a charity to be deducted in computing the income of trust
estates, raise no inference that Congress intended to permit a like deduction to be made in computing the income
of trust estates under te Act of 1916.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.

6

Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

The policy pursued in the Act of 1916 of not taxing the
income received by a charity, but taxing income which,
while not received by a charity, might be received by it at
some future time, accords with the taxation policy generally followed by state legislatures. 37 Cyc. 928, n. 6;
Boston Society v. Boston, 129 Mass. 178; Presbyterian
Board V. Fisher,68 N. J. L. 143.
-Where the tax law covers a certain kind of income or
proper:ty, a general intention on the part of Congress to
exempt it from tax will not, apart from express words
,giving effept-!to this intention, free it from the tax burden.
Cornell v. Coyne, 192 U. S. 418, 431; Swan & Finch Co. v.
United States, 190 U. S. 143, 146.
Mr. Maurice Bower Saul, with whom Mr. Joseph A.
Lamorelle was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHImF JusTicr T4

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question in' this case is whether the Income Tax
Law of September 8; 1916, c. 463, 39 Stat. 756, as amended
by the Act of October 3, 1917, c. 63, 40 Stat. 300, requires the Contributors to the Pennsylvania Hospital, a
corporation of Pennsylvania, created for charitable uses
and purposes, no. part of whose net income is for the
benefit of any private stockholder or individual, to pay
a tax on the income o a residuary estate devised to it by
the will of Alexander J. Derbyshire in 1879 and inuring
to its benefit under the following circumstances. The
devise was subject to the payment of certain annuities.
All of the annuitants are dead save one. The Supreme
Court of that State decided that the income could not be
paid outright t6 the Hospital until the death of all the
annuitants and until then, must remain in control of the
trustee appointed under the will. Derbyshire's Estate,
239 Pa. St. 389. The trustee transferred the whole resid-

LEDERER v. STOCKTON.
3

Opinion of the Court.

uary fund as a loan for fifteen years to the Hospital, and
secured himself by mortgage on property of the Hospital.
Under the terms of the loan and mortgage,-the Hospital
only pays interest enough to satisfy the administrative
charges and the annuity. It uses the remainder of the
income from the fund for its expenses. It is thus actually
receiving the full benefit of the income of $15,000 from
the residuary fund, reduced only by the annuity of $800.
Section 2 (b) of the Income Tax Law of 1916, supra,
is as follows:
"Income received by estates of deceased persons during the period of administration or settlement of the
estate, shall be subjectto the normal and additional tax
and taxed to their estates, and also such income of estates
or any kind of. property held in trust, including such
income accumulated in trust for the benefit of unborir or
unascertained persons, or persons with contingent interests, and. income held for future distribution under the
terms of the will or trust shall be likewise taxed, the tax
in each instance, except when the income is returned for
the purpose of the tax by the beneficiary, to be assessed
to.the executor, administrator, or trustee, as the case may
be: Provided, That where the income is to be distributed
annually or regularly between existing heirs or legatees,
or beneficiaries the rate of tax and method of computing
the same shall be based in each case upon the amount of
the individual share to be distributed."
Section 11 (a) of the same act provides:'
"That there shall not be taxed under this title any
income received by any . . . corporation or association organized and operated exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, or educational purposes, no part of
the net income of which inures to the benefit of any private stockholder or individual."
Upon these facts, Lederer, the internal revenue collector, assessed Stockton, the trustee, on the income from

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

the residuary estate for thd years 1916 and 1917, under
§ 2 (b), and collected the same. The trustee b1rought suit
in the United States District Court against the collector
to recover the sums so paid as illegally collected. The
District Court gave judgment for the trustee and this
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit. 266 Fed. 676.
This residuary fund was vested in the Hospital. The
death of the annuitant would completely end the trust.
For this reason, the trustee w s able safely to make the
arrangement by which the Hospital has really received the
benefit of the income subject to the annuity. As the
Hospital is admitted to be a corporation, whose income
when received is exempted from taxation under § 11 (a),
we see no reason why the exemption should not be given
effect under the circumstances. To allow the technical
formality of the trust,"which does not prevent, the Hospital from really enjoying the income, would be to defeat
the beneficent purpose of Congress.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals isAffirmed.
CHARLOTTE HARBOR & NORTHERN- RAILWAY
COMPANY v. WELLES ET AL., CONSTITUTING
iHE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF
DE SOTO COUNTY, FLORIDA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.

No. 4.
*

Submitted March 16, 1921; restored to docket for oral argument March 21, 1921; argued October 4, 1922.-Decided
October 16, 1922:

A special improvement tax which was void when assessed, for want
of statutory authority in the officers who undertook the improvement,,may be validated by the legislature consistently with the due
pro:
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 11. Forbes

