NATIONAL INS. CO. v, WANBERG.
Statement of the Case.

NATIONAL UNION FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY
v. WANBERG.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
DAKOTA.

No. 32. Submitted, October 6, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. The law of North Dakota (Comp. Laws 1913, ยง 4902), providing
that every insurance company engaged- in the business of insuring
against loss by hail in that State, shall be bound, and the insurance
shall take effect, from and after twenty-four hours from the taking
of an application therefor by a local agent of the company, and
requiring such a company, if it would decline the insurance upon
receipt of the application, forthwith to notify the applicant and
the agent by telegram,-does not deprive such companies of their
liberty of contract, and so of their property, without due process
of law, or deny them the equal protection of the laws. P73.
2. The public interest arising from sudden and localized losses of
crops inflicted by hail in North Dakota, and the high rate of
insurance for such risks, as well'as other distinctions, justify special legislative treatment of this kind of insurance. P. 74.
3. The fact that the time requirements of the statute may bear more
heavily upon foreign than upon local insurance companies, is a
circumstance incident to the conduct of business in the State, of
which a foreign company cannot complain. P. 75.
4. The statute does not force the company to contract, since it does
not compel acceptance of applications or deny the right to require
prepayment of premium, or the right to cancel insurance in the
usual way; the time allowed for rejecting applications, though
short, is not unreasonable, under the circumstances; nor is the
company left without means of distributing its risks in locality,
so as to avoid disastrous losses from particular storms. P. 76.
5. The statute being valid, an applicant's agreement that his application shall not take effect until received and accepted at the company's agency, is void, and does not bind him. P. 77.
46 N. Dak. 369, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of North
Dakota affirming a recovery upon a contract of hail insurance.

-OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

Mr. Nathan H. Chase and Mr. William H. Barnett for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. W. B. Overson and Mr. William G. Owens for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE, TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Court.,
This is a writ, of' error to the Supreme Court of North
Dakota, brought to rev&erse its judgment affirming one of
the District Court of, William County of that State for
ยง1,254.25" with interest' and costs, upon a coniract of hail
insurance, against the National Union Fire Insurance
Company, a corporation of Pennsylvania. The judgment
restsffor its validity on ยง .4902 of the Compiled Laws of
North tbakota, 1913, as follbws:
Every insulrance Icompany engaged in'the business of
insuring against loss by hail in this State, shall be bound,
and the insurance shall take effect from and after twentyfour hours from the day and hour the-application for such
insurance has been taken by the authorized local agent of
said company, and if the company shall decline to write
the insurance upon receipt of the application, it shall
forthwith notify the applicant and agent who took the
application, by telegram, and in that event, the insurance
shall not become effective.: Provided, that nothing in this
article shall prevent the company, from issuing a policy
on such an application and putting the insurance in force
prior to the expiration of said twenty-four hours."
The facts as stipulated were:'
At ten- o'clock in the forenoon of July 12, 1917, Wanberg on -his farm at Tioga in North Dakota, signed and
deliYered to Everson, the agent of the defendant company, an application on the blank furnished by the- company for insurance on his crops in the sum of,$1,400
against loss or damage by hail or any other cause, except

NATIONAL INS. CO. v. WANBERG.
71

73

Opinion of the Court.

fire, floods, winter kill or failure of insured to use good
husbandry,
ie also, paid 'to Everson the premium of
$140. Everson had authority as agent only to solicit and
receive such applications and the premium therefor and
to transmit them to the company's western office, at
Waseca, Minnesota, where applications were acted upon
and policies issued. The company was duly licensed
under the laws of North Dakota to transact its business
in the State. On the afternoon of July 13, 1917, Everson
mailed the application with the premium less commission
to the office at Waseca, where it arrived on Sunday, July
15th, and was delivered on Monday the 16th. In the
meantime, at six o'clock in the evening of July 14th, a
hail storm injured Wanberg's growing crops to the extent
of the amount of the judgment. On Tuesday, July 17th,
and without knowledge of the loss, the Waseca agency
returned the application and premium to Everson saying
that at that late date it would not be accepted. The
application contained a provision that it should take
effect from the day it was received and accepted, as evidenced by the issuance of a policy thereon at the Waseca,
Minnesota, agency for the company.
The only error we can consider which was duly reserved
is that ยง 4902 as applied to this case violates the Fourteenth Amendment in that it operates to deprive the company of liberty of contract, and therefore of its property,
without due process of law, and of the equal protection
of the laws.
The decision of this Court in German Alliance Insu.rance Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389, settled the right of a
state legislature to regulate the conduct by corporations,
domestic and foreign, of insurance as a business affected
with a publ- interest. This includes provision for "unearned premium fund or reserve; . . .the limitation of
dividends, the publishing of accounts, valued policies,
standards of policies, prescribing investment, requiring

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S,

deposits in money or bonds, confining the business to corpreventing discriminatioii'in rates, limitation
of risks aind other 'regulations equally restrictive." (233
U. S. 12.)It in)cl-des moreover the restrictions of defense to recovery on policies and the forbidding of stipulations to evade such restrictions. -Orent Insurance Co.
v. Da'gs, 172 U. S. 557; Whitfield v. Aetn-a Life Insurance
Co., 205 U. S. 489. But it is said the line of possible
and valid regulation has here been passed by affirmatively imposing a contract on an insurance company before it has had a chance to consider the circumstances and
decide that it wishs to make it, indeed, that it declares
that to be an agreement- with heavy obligation' which is
in fact no agreement at all. -Thus it is argued that bythis
statute nandatory obligaion is substituted for freedom of
contract, which is just that against' Which the Fourteenth
Amendment was intended to secure persons.' We agree
that this legislation apprQaches closely- the'limit, of legis't
if transcends it. The statute
lative power, but notl
treats the business of 'hail insurance as affected with a
public interest. In that country, where a farmer's whole
crop, the work and product of a year," h'ay be wiped out
in a few minutes, and where the iecurrence of such manifestations of nature is not infrequent, and no care can
provide against their destructive' character, it is of much
public:moment that agencies like insurance companies to
distribute the loss qver the entire community should be
regulated so as to b6 effective for the purpose. The danger and loss to be mitigated are possible for a short period.The storms are usually fitful and may cover a comparatively small territory at a time, so that, of two neighbors,
one may have a total loss and the other may escape altogether. The risk justifies a high rate of insurance. It
differs so- much in these and other respects from other
insurance that it may properly call for special legislative
treatment. The statute applies to all companies engaged

-pbrations,

NATIONAL INS. CO. v. WANBERG.
71

Opinion of the Court.

in such insurance. There is no discrimination and no
denial of the equal protection of the laws. The fact that
the time requirements of the statute may bear more
heavily on foreign companies whose principal offices may
be far removed than upon those whose headquarters are
within the State is a circumstance necessarily incident to
their conduct of business in another State of which they
can not complain. They can not expect the laws of the
State to be bent to accommodate' them as a matter of
strict legal right, however wise it may be for a legislature
to give.weight to-such a consideration in securing the use
of foreign capital for its people. Moreover, as the business of such insurance companies is purely intrastate, New,
York Life Insurance Co. v. Deer Lodge County, 231 U. S.
495, the State has power to require them to accept conditions different from those imposed on domestic corporations (Pauilv. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Hooperv. California,
155 U. S. 648, and cases cited) though this is not, of course,
unlimited. Terral v. Burke Construction Co., 257 U. S.
529, 532, 533.
The legislature was evidently convinced that it would
help the public interest if farmers could be induced generally to take out hail insurance and "temper the wind"
so injurious to the agriculture of the State, and that they
would be more likely to avail themselves of this protection if they could effect the insurance promptly and on
the eve of the danger. The legislature said, therefore, to
companies intending to engage in hail insurance, "To
accomplish our purpose we forbid you to engage in this
kind of business unless you agree to close your contracts
within twenty-four hours after application is made. You
must -so extend the scope of the authority of your local
agents, or must so speed communication between them
and your representatives wh6 have authority, as to enable
an applicant to know within the limits of a day whether
he is protected, so that, if not, he may at once go to

76

-OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

another company to secure what he seeks. If, therefore,
you engage in this exigent business, and allowan application to pend more than twenty-four hours, you will be
held to have made the contraet of insurance for which the
farmer has applied."This does not force a contract on the company. It need
not accept an application at all or it can make its arranigements-to reject one within twenty-four hours. It is urged
that no company, to be safe and to make the business reasonably profitable, can afford to place more thania certain
nimber of'risks-within a particular section or township,
and that what is called "mapping" must be done to prevent too many risks in one locality and to distribute them
so that the company-may not suffer -too heavily from the
same :storm. Applications are often received by agents in
different towns for the crops in the same section -or township, so that, if -local agents were-given authority -finally
to accept applications, this "mapping," essential to the'
security of the -company in doing the business at all, would
be impossible. It seems to us that this is a difficulty
easily, overcome by appointing agents with larger territorial authority and-sub-agents 'near them,- or by the
greater use of the telegraph or :telephone in consulting
the home office or more trusted local agencies: While the
time allowed is-short, we can not say that it is unreasonable in -view of the legitimate purpose of the legislation
and the possibilities of modern business methods.
-There is nothing in the statute under discussion which
requires a company to receive applications or prevents it
from insisting on the payment of a premium in advance
before receiving ,them, or. from reserving the usual right
on the part of the insurer- at any time to, cancel the contract of insurance on service of dtie notice with a return
of a proper proportion of the premium. Not infrequently
companies in their own 'interest in some kinds of insurance, entrust to local insurance agents authority -to bind

BREWER OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
71

77

Syllabus.

their principals temporarily until the application can be
examined and approved by the head office. The statute
here in question has been in force since 1913, and it does
not seem to have driven companies out of the hail insurance business, an indication that they are able profitably
and safely to adjust themselves and their methods to its
requirements. Whether it is wise legislation is not for us
to consider. All we have to decide, and that we do decide,
is that it is not so arbitrary or unreasonable as to deprive
those whom it affects of their property or liberty without
due process of law.
It is pointed out on behalf of the company that the
very application which the defendant in error signed contained an express consent that the policy should not take
effect until the company's agency at Waseca, Minnesota,
should have an opportunity to examine it and should
accept it. It is clear that if the statute is valid such a
consent is void because it defeats the very object of the
statute. This is settled by Whitfield v. Aetna Life Insurance Co., 205 U. S. 489, and Orient Insurance Co. v.
Daggs, 172 U. S. 557, already cited.
The judgment.of the Supreme Court of North Dakota is
Affirmed.
BREWER-ELLIOTT OIL & GAS COMPANY ET AL.
v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 52. Argued October 12, 13, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. Where an act of Congress setting apart and confirming a reservation to the Osage Indians, out of lands formerly occupied but ceded
by the Cherokees, described" the west boundary as "the main
channel of the Arkansas River," and a deed to the United States
for the Osages. made bv the Cherokees in pursuance -of this and

