DUESENBERG MOTORS CORP. v. U. S.
110

Syllabus.

direction upon the Commission, necessarily to be exercised
in supplement to the action of the applicant and with the
same'publicity and opportunity of the applicant to meet
adverse evidence. And the act., construed as we construe
it, will take no power from the Comrmission necessary to
the performance of its duties, and will leave no power with
it that it can exercise to the detriment of any rightassured to an applicant for a license by the Constitution

of the United States.
The decree of the court ordering the issuance of a temporary injunction is

Reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
DUESENBERG

MOTORS

CORPORATION

v.

UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM0, THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 80. Argued October 19, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. A contractor who incurred expense under a contract to manufacture articles for the Government for use in the late war, Lut whosQ
opportunity to perform and earn the contemplated profits was
cut short by the sudden cessation of hostilities, the declaration of
the armistice and- the consequent termination of the contract in
accordance with its terms, took the chances of this contingency and
cannot recover damages. P. 124.
2. Held, in this case, that delay of the Government in furnishing
necessary specifications as contemplated by a contract for the manufacture of air-plane motors of a foreign model, due to an honest
but mistaken belief, shared by the contractor, that the model was
perfected and adequate specifications in existence, was not an
actionable breach of .representation, in view of the conduct and
dealings of the parties for the expedition of the work, the absencb
of any protest over the delay. and the absence of averment thaj it
prevented the contractor -from being fully occupied with preparatory and other work under. the contract. P. 123.

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellant.

260 U. S.

3. Time was of the essence for the Government, but not for the
contractor. P. 124.
56 Ct. Clms. 96, affirmed.

APPEAL. from a judgment of the Court of' Claims dismissing, on demurrer, a petition: claimihig (1) the profits
that would have been made by the ciaimant, under a contract with the Government for manufacture of air-plane
motors, but for the Government's alleged failure to supply
the necessary specifications as agreed; (2) amounts paid
by the claimant, because of the delay, as interest on
money borrowed from the Government and private
sources for use in executing the contract; and (3), if (1)
cannot be recovered, the 'amount lost by the claimant
through terminating its commercialbusiness to accept the
contract.
Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B. King
and Mr. George R. Shields were on the brief, for appellant.
The contract of January 4, 1918, for the Bugatti motors
is the one' upon which this suit is based. Time was of
the -essence of this contract. It required deliveries to
begin in March and end in September, 1918, and held the
contractor to the most rigid rule of promptness. This
provision necessarily implied that the United States must
do everything required of the Government in time to permit the contractor to comply with its obligations.
The contract provision for "specifications to follow"
necessarily implied that .the specifications must, be furnished in time to permit the deliveries to be made on time.
The failure to furnish specifications in such time-they
were not complete until September 25, 1918--was a
breach of contract by the United States which entitles the
contractor to recover for the losses caused thereby.
These propositions rest upon e1.mentary principles:
"What is implied is as effectual as what is expressed."
"Specifications to follow" implies within a reasonable

DUESENBERG MOTORS CORP. v. U. S.
115

Argument for Appellant.

time; but this means a reasonable time within the intent
of this contract, when its parts are construed together.
The schedule of deliveries, beginning in March, 1918,
shows that intent, as do the many expressions of the need
of promptness.
. Upon breach of contract by one party, the other may
continue work without waiver of its right to damages.
American Smelting & Refining Co. v. United States,. 259
U. S. 75. See also Mansfield v. New York Central R. R.
Co., 102 N. Y. 205; McMaster v. State, 108 N. Y. 542;
Tobey v. Price, 75 Ill. 645; Merrimack Mfg. Co. v.
Qunita'd, 107 Mass. 127; Garfield &c. Co. v. Fitchburg
R. R., 166 Mass. 119.
The principle is of special application to a war contract, where refusal to continue would have resulted in
confusion in the Government's plans. The rule of law
should conform to the obligation of patriotism.
The provision of the 6ontract authorizing changes in
the drawings or specifications does not include a failure,
to furnish specifications. The changes permitted under
any such provision are changes of detail which do not
essentially alter the nature of the article to be furnished.
Such changes would'not interfere with the general processes of-production and would not operate as a complete
suspension of the work. Failure to furnish specifications
suspends progress to the. total extent of their absence.
Besides, the provision for changes apparently relied upon
by the court below was in an earlier contract, and whether
it was imported into this one is open to question.
The loss of the profit which the contractor would have
made before the date bf termination is the measure of
damages for the delay which caiused the loss. It is not
here claimed as a loss due to the termination ,of the
contract, but as a loss due -tothe delay which prevented
completion before termination. It is claimed under the
definition of aQtual d6mages stated in Philadelphia,W. &

118 - .

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellant.

260 U. S.

B. R. R. Co. v. Howard, 13 How. 307. St. Louis Beef Co.
v. Casualty Co., 201 U. S. 173; -UnitedStates v. Behan,
110 U. S. 338; United States v.-Speed, 8 Wall. 77; Roehm
v. Horst, 178 U. S. 1.
The plaintiff is entitled to recover the interest paid to
the Government on the loans it made the plaintiff, because, by delaying the specifications, it prevented complete deliveries and payment to the contractor of cost and
profit, from which the borrowed money would have been
paid. 'This comes clearly within the rule of damages
stated in the cases already cited. Hattiesburg Lumber
Co. v. Herrick, 212 Fed. 834; Bank of Columbia v.
Hagner, 1 Pet. 455; Guerini Stone Co. v. Carlin Construction Co., 248 U. S. 334.
The payment of interest on a bank loan, made necessary by the same default, is no less a direct item of
damage to the contractor than the payment of interest
to the United States. The cost of revenue stamps on the
notes, also claimed, follows the same principle.
The provisions of ยง 177, Jud. Code, forbidding judgment in the Court of Claims for interest upon a claim,
have no application to this item.
When appellant undertook this contract, it had-to discontinue its commercial business and suffered a loss in so.
doing. It was expected that this loss would be made
good out of the fixed profit on the completed motors, as
well as the uncerthin profit on spare parts. The failure
of the contractor to realize the eptire profit and thus.
absorb -the loss was due to the failure of the United States
to furnish the specifications on time. That-the loss still
rests upon the contractor is therefore the fault of the
United States and the contractor should be reimbursed
theref6r. See Baird v. United States, 5 Ct. Cms. 348;,
affd. 131 U. S. appendix cvi. If the contractor is allowed
the amount of its profits as damages under the first item,
this item is not allowable, as it is discharged by the profits.

DUESENBERG MOTORS CORP. v. U. S.
115

119

Opinion of the Court.

The United States is entitled to credit upon it in the
proportion which the profits actually received bear to
the total profits which would have been received had the
default of the United States not occurred.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck'was on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Action in the Court of Claims against the United States
for expenses in endeavoring to perform certain contracts
with the United States made during the war with Germany, or for anticipated profits.
The contracts were for aeronautical equipment for war
purposes. There were a first and primary contract and
seven other contracts called supplemental agreements.
The latter contained modifications of the first or primary
contract, and each agreement contained modifications of
those which preceded.
The first or primary contract, dated November 20, 1917,
provided for 500 United States standard twelve-cylinder
engines, sometimes referred to as Liberty engines. By an
agreement dated December 11, 1917, the number was increased to 1,000. By another agreement dated January
4, 1918, the type of motor was changed and a motor
called the Bugatti motor was substituted; and there were
other agreements.
From this general statement it will be seen that the
contract and agreements are determining elements in the
claims sued upon. A full recital of them, however, would
extend this opinion to an embarrassing length. We shall
confine ourselves, therefore, to those which we regard of
determining pertinence.

120".

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

.260 U. S.

Upon demurrer of the United States, the Court of
Claims decided the contractor entitled to no relief and
dismissed its-petition. This action is contested, and it is
earnestly insisted that. the contracts made time their
essence and required speed and dispatch from the contractor, and demanded in 'their performance precedence
upon all other work, involving necessarily, sacrifice and
expense uppn the part of the contractor. . And time, it is
contended, being of the essence of the contracts, this necessarily, implied that the United States -must have done
everything to permit the contractor to comply with its
obligations. The Government, however, was delinquent;
and it. is alleged that "the drawings and specifications
referred to in the contract (Exhibit A) as being attached
thereto (but which were not in fact so attached) were furnished piece-meal from time to time but not so as to
enable the claimant to enter into quantity production; and the only work which was practicable under said
contract was in making extensive -alterations in the plant
of claimant company to adapt it to the uses of the Government for the purpose of carrying-out the contract (Exhibit A), to assemble a competent engineering staff, and
to make other .preparations for the performance of said
contract,-all of which the claimant did at great expense."
And further delinquency is charged in not performing
the agreement which substituted the Bugatti motors,- and
Article I of the agreement is quoted as follows:
"That, subject to all the provisions of Article I in said
contract No. 2318 contained, the Contractor shall make
for the Government, instead of the articles described in
Article 'I 6f said contract, two thousand (2,000) Bugatti
motors, and such spare parts for said motors as the Government may order from time to time during the period of
the construction of said motors in accordance with specifications to folloW."
The 'pecifications were not iuriished, it is, said, - until
September 25, 1918; and that the delay was a breach-of

DUESENBERG MOTORS CORP. v. U. S.
115

121

Opinion of the Court.

the contract; and the contractor is entitled to recover for
the losses caused thereby.
To this the Court of Claims answered that the contract
contemplated a revision of the schedule (times of delivery) in regard to the engines.. The provision to which
that purpose was attributed is, that "in view of the present uncertain factors inherent in the articles, and in the
establishment of the industry of producing them, it is
understood that this schedule may require revision, . . ."

The schedule designated June, 1918, as the month of complete production.
Changes were provided for in another article, and by
still another it was provided that if in the opinion of the
Chief Signal Officer of the United States the public interests so required, the Government might, upon thirty days'
notice, terminate the contract. And there was provision
for settlenpent of disputes.
Dates are important to cbe considered. The supplemental contract in which Article I appears, and' which
adopts Article I of the first contract, is dated January 4,
1918. Another agreement which was supplementary to
that agreement was dated January 15, 1918, and still
another dated February 11, 1918.
In none of these agreements, continuing as they did the
obligations of the parties to them and the means of their
performance, is there a word of complaint that the Gofernment had been or was delinquent on account of not
furnishing specifications or in any way. In the agreement of February 11, 1918, in Article II, it is provided
that:
"In the interest of both parties hereto and in order to
expedite -thedelivery of the said supplies, the Government
will advance to the contractor under the Principal Agreement the sum of Four Hundred Thousand Dollars
($400,000) on the terms and security hereinafter mentioned, -and will make payment directly to the contractor
by check dated February 25, 1918."

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

There was another agreement, dated February 14, 1918,
which continued in effect, except as modified, all that
preceded. There was no protest or complaint of any
kind,' no accusation of default or delay on the part of the
Government.
There was a seventh agreement, made September 26,
1918, and another, made October 23, 1918, for advance
payments to the contractor.
The agreements are of significant strength. Their
legal effect and that of the contract cannot be determined
by any one provision but the totality of them must be
regarded and their relations and purposes.
A war of magnitude was waging. The Government
was eager for efficient instrumentalities and the contractor was enticed by the .profit of their manufacture. -The
matters were urgent, but they were beset with contingencies. The Government "could terminate the contract in
the interest of the public welfare; and the war might
cease. The latter did happen. However, before it happened and, before, it may be, there were signs of its happening, there were dealings and adjustments of preparation between, the Government and the contractor. They
took care of, and were intended to take care of, changing
purposes, and no dissatisfaction was expressed. One of
the changes was, as we have said, from the construction
of 500 Liberty motors to 1,000, the completion and delivery of which was to be in June, 1918, and, as we have said,
another change was the substitution of 2,000 Bugatti
motors for the Liberty engines, and for such spare parts
as the Government might order from time to time; the
motors to be delivered by September; 1918. By the supplemental agreements which provided for those changes,
it was also provided that their cost was to be paid by the
Government, and the profit-of thecontractor was changed
from $625 for each article to $750, and the Government
agreed to advance the contractor $1,250,000, to be repaid
with interest at 6%.

DUESENBERG MOTORS CORP. v. U. S.115

Opinion of the Court.

Upon this change to the Bugatti motors comes the first
claim of the contractor, based upon Article I of the agreement of January '4, 1918, by which it was provided 'as
follows: "That subject to all the provisions of Article I
in said contract No. 2318 contained, the Contractor shall
make for the Government, instead of the articles described in Article I of said contract, two thousand (2,000)
Bugatti motors, and such spare parts for said motors as
the Government may order from time to time during the
period of the construction of said motors, in accordance
with specifications to follow." (Italics ours.)
No time is specified. It is, however, contended that
necessarily a reasonable time must have been intended
and was not observed. The specifications, it is alleged,
did not follow until September 25, 1918, when the entire
time for the production of the motors was within a few
days of expiring, whereby it became impossible to produce any of the articles within the time limit of the
contract.
It is not alleged, however, that the failure to furnish
the specifications was willful on the part of the Government or fraudulent. On the contrary, it is alleged, that
there was a belief upon the part of the government officers
by whom and under whom the supplemental agreement,
was made that there were in existence complete specifications of the articles, which needed only to be obtained
from France; that the motors had passed the experimental stage and were ready for production. It is, however, alleged that the statements in the contract operated
as a representation to the contractor that such was the
fact, and that production in quantity could begin at or
shortly after -the entry into the agreement. It is further
alleged that, when the first motor was received shortly
after the date of the agreement, it developed that extensive changes would be necessary, and the contractor was
directed to proceed meanwhile actively with production

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

on the separate parts to the extent possible in view of the
undeveloped character of the specifications of the engine.
This was done in conjunction with the officers of 'the
Government.
It will be observed that it -isnot alleged that the belief
of the-government officers was not consistently entertained nor that the contractor did not share it, Nor is it
said that the work on the separate parts and the preparations forthe performance o f the contract did not engage
the contractor's time. Indeed, the fact is that, by January 4, there were changes to the advantage of the contractor, and again by the agreement of February 11, 1918,
and another as late as October 23, 1918, by which the
Government agreed to a'dvance to the 'co itractor $1,250,000.- And still no complaint. On the contrary there was
acceptance of assistance.
It is manifest there were uncertainties on .both sides
and that, as they developed, preparations were necessary
to' meet them, and, in meeting them, the contractor did
not regard the Government in any way delinquent. It
was the abrupt and unexpected suspension of hostilities
and the declaration' of an armistice that was the cause of
loss to-the contractor, and the disappointment of profits
from its contracts which it was 'preparing to realize and
would have realized. But it'took that chance and has
not now a legal claim against the Government for reimbursement of its outlays. We' need not distinguish between the outlays nor dwell upon them. They were out-lays of the'speculation, and subject to sacriflce and loss
with -its disappointment.
We have seen that counsel make much of the effect of
the Government's- urgency, and, it is contended, time in
consequence became an essential ,of the contract. This,
the contention is, influenced the- contractor and necessarily determines the obligation of the- Government.' The
Government was undoubtedly urgent, made so by its seri-

KEOKUK & HAMILTON BRIDGE CO. v. U. S.
115

125

Statement of the Case.

ous situation and tremendous responsibilities, but such
was not the situation of the contraitor. Time to perform its contract was all that was necessary to it, and but
for the armistice it would have had time. If the armistice could have been foreseen, th4 relative situations
might have been different. Expedition would not then
have been exigent to the Government's purposes, but
would then have been necessary to the contractor, if profits
were to be realized from the production of the motors.
There was no prophecy of the armistice-its sudden happening terminated the further execution of the contractor's undertaking, preventing, as we have said, the
,realization of profits. And, we repeat, this chance the
contractor took and must abide the result.
Judgment affirmed.
KEOKUK & HAMILTON BRIDGE COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 58. Argued October 13, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.

1 The Court will not refxamine the findings of fact made by the
Court of Claims upon evidence. P. 126.
2. An unintentional injury to a bridge pier in the makiig of navigation improvements by the Government, held at most in the'nature

of a tort, and not a taking of property by the United States for
which damages might be recovered on the' theory. of contract.

P. 126.
55 Ct..Cims. 480,.affirmed.
Ai,'.AL from a judgment of the Court of Claims disL
mi ing the petition in an action to recover the value of
a pier, alleged to have been destroyed, and hence talon,
by the act of the United States.
*

Mr. F. T. Hughes, for appellait -gu nittded.

