CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT
OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
STATE OF WYOMING v. STATE OF COLORADO
ET AL.
IN

EQUITY.

No. 3, Original.. October Term, 1921. Petition for rehearing denied.
Modified final decree entered October 9, 1922.
The original decree, herein modified, is reported in 259
U. S.,,at p. 496.
Mr. Victor E. Keyes, Attorney General of the Stale of
Colorado, Mr. William R. Ramsey, Mr. Delph E. Carpenter, Mr. Julius C. Gunter and Mr. L. Ward Bainister,
for defendants, submitted the petition.
1. On consideration of the defendants' petition for a
rehearing heretofore presented by leave of the court, it is
considered, ordered and decreed that the decree entered
herein on June 5, 1922, be modified to read as follows:
This cause~having been heretofore submitted on the
pleadings and the evidence taken before and reported by
the commissioners appointed for the purpose, and the
Court being now fully advised in the premises:
It is considered, ordered and decreed that the defendants, their officers, agents and seryants, be, and they are
hereby, severlly enjom6d from diverting or taking from
the Laramie River and its tributaries in the State of Colorado more than fifteen thousand five hundred (15,500)
45646°-23---1

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
260 U. S.

Decree.

acre-feet of water per annum in virtue of or through what
is designated in the pleadings and evidence as the Laramie-Poudre Tunnel appropriation in that State,
Provided, that this decree shall not prejudice the right
of the State of Colorado, or of any one recognized by her as
duly entitled thereto, to continue to exercise the right
now existing and hereby recognized to divert and take
from such stream and its tributaries in that State eighteen
thousand (18,000) acre-feet of water per annum in virtue
of and through what -is designated in the pleadings and
evidence as the Skyline Ditch appropriation in that State;
nor prejudice the right of that State, ,or of any one recognized by her as duly entitled thereto, to continue to
exercise the right now existing and hereby recognized to
divert and take from such stream and its tributaries in
that State four thousand two hundred and fifty (4,250)
acre-feet of water per annum in virtue of and through the
meadow-land appropriations in that State which are
named in the pleadings and evidence; nor prejudice the
right of the State of Colorado, or of any one recognized
by her as duly entitled thereto, to continue to exercise
the right now existing and hereby recognized to divert
and take from the, headwaters of Deadman Creek, a
Colorado tributary of the Laramie River, the relatively
small amount of water appropriated therefrom prior to
-the year 1909 by and through *ihat is designated in the
evidence as the Wilson Supply Ditch; nor prejudice or
affect the right of the State of Colorado or the State of
Wyoming, or of any one recognized& by either State as
duly entitled thereto, to continue to exercise the right
to divert and -use water from Sand Creek, sometimes
spoken of as a tributary of the Laramie River, in virtue
of any existing and lawful appropriation of the waters
-of such creek;
And it is also considered, ordered and decreed that the
costs of this suit be apportioned among and paid by the
I

I

LEDERER v. STOCKTON.
I

Statement of the Case.

parties thereto as follows: The State of Wyoming one-

third, the State of Colorado one-third, and the two corporate defendants jointly one-third.
And it is further considered, ordered and decreed that
the clerk of this Court do transmit to the chief magistrates
of the States of Colorado and Wyoming copies of this
decree duly authenticated under the seal of this Court.

2. In view of the modifications hereby made in the
decree of June 5, 1922, the petition for rehearing in this
cause is hereby denied.

LEDERER, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE FIRST DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, v. STOCKTON, SOLE SURVIVING TRUSTEE OF DERBYSHIRE, DECEASED.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS- FOR THE
THIRD CRCUIT.

No. 16. Argued October 5, 1922.-Decided October 16, 1922.
The Income Tax Law of 1916, §§ 2 (b) and 11 (a), taxes income
from trust estates, but exempts income received by any corporation organized and operated exclusively for charitable purposes no
part of the net income of which inures to the benefit of any private
stockholder or individual. Where a fund was held by a testamentary trustee to pay an annuity and, upon the annuitant's death to
transfer the fund and accumulated interest to a hospital corporation, and the trustee lent the money to the hospital upon mortgage
security receiving back only interest sufficient to satisfy his administrative charges and the annuity, held, that the remaining.
income, retained by the hosliital, was not taxable. P. 8.
266 Fed. 676, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals affirming a judgment recovered by the respondent
Stockton, in an action to recover back money paid by him
as income taxes.

