584

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

AMERICAN RAILWAY EXPRESS COMPANY v.
LINDENBURG.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREMBE COURT OF APPEALS OFiITHE
STATE OF
VWEST VIRGINIA.
No. 138. Argued December 4, 1922.-Decided January 8, 1923.
1. 1n a proceeding under the Cummins Amendment (amended by
Act of August 9, 1916, c. 301, 39 Stat. 441,) the.Interstate Commerce Commission authorized various express companies to maintain rates dependent upon declared or agreed values of property
shipped and authorized a new form of receipt; and thereafter
another express company, not a party to the proceeding nor
mentioned in the Commission's order, published and filed with the
Commission a tariff referring to the order and containing the form
of receipt, and put the tariff in effect. Held that, in the absence
of proof to the contrary, it would be presumed that the action of
the company was authorized by the Commission. P. 588.
2. A stipulation in an express receipt is not rendered unlawful by
the presence of others which are so, but which are separable from
it and inapplicable to the shipment in question or to the obligations
of the carrier respecting it. P. 589.
3. The Cummins. Amendment,1 in allowing carriers, when expressly
authorized by the Interstate Commerce Commission, to" estAblish and maintain rates dependent upon the value declared in
writing by the shipper or agreed upon in writing as the released
value ", does not require the signature of the shipper. P. 590.
4. A shipper, by receiving and acting upon an express receipt, for
an interstate shipment, signed only by the carrier, assents to its
terms, and it thereby becomes the written agreement of the parties. P. 591.
5. And where the terms of the receipt and the carrier's lawful filed
schedules show that the charge made was based upon a specified
valuation of the goods, by which the carrier's liability wvas to be
limited, the shipper is presumed to have known this; and is
estopped from asserting a higher value when goods are damaged
in transit. P. 591.
:W. Va. 439, reversed.

AMER. ii z. EXP. CO. v. LINDENBURG.
584

585

Opinion of the Court.

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virgiiia affirming a judgment against the
petitioner in an action against it brought by the respondent to recover for damages to goods shipped.
CERTIORARI

Mr. A. M. Hartung, with whom Mr. H. S. Marx and
Mr. Staige Davis were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. E. B. Dyer and Mr. Morgan Owen for respondent.
MR. JuSTIcE SuTm1uRAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
On July 22, 1918, at Indianapolis, Indiana, respondent
caused to be delivered to petitioner two trunks weighing
200 pounds and 100 pounds, respectively, and a package
weighing 10 pounds, for transportation to him at Charleston, West Virginia. A receipt was given for the property, which recited that its terms and conditions were
agreed to by the shipper. The receipt, among other
things, stipulated that in no event "shall this Company
be held liable or responsible, nor.shall any demand be
made upon it beyond the sum of fifty dollars upon any
shipment of 100 lbs. or less, and for not exceeding 50
cents per pound upon any shipment weighing more than
100 lbs., and the liability of the Express Company is
limited to the value above stated unless the just and true
value is declared at time of shipment, and the declared
value in excess of the value above specified is paid for, or
agreed to be paid for, under this Company's schedule of
charges for excess value."
This receipt was produced at the trial and put in evidence by the respondent in support of his action. At the
time of the shipment the value of the property was neither
stated by the respondent nor demanded by the petitioner.
The charges paid were on the basis of the limited liability
set forth in the receipt. One of the trunks when delivered

.. 86

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

at destination was in bad order, some of the goods therein
being damaged and others destroyed. - Respondent alleged
damages in: the sum of $1,500.00. Petitioner answered,'
.admitting liability .'for $110.00, under the terms of the
receipt. The trial court gave judgment for $916.15. which
the state appellate court affirmed. 88 W. Va. 439. The
case is here on certiorari.
The. case is governed by the provisions of the Cummins
Aneidmrent, Act of March 4, 1915, c: 176, 38 Stat. 1196,
as amended by the Act of August 9, 1916, c. 301; 39 Stat.
441. The amendment requires every common carrier receiving property for interstate transportation to issue a
receipt or bill of lading, and makes it liable for the full,
actual loss, damage or injury to such property caused by
it or any connecting carrier participating in the transportation on a through bill of lading, notwithstanding any
limitation -of liability of the amount of recovery or representation or agreement as to value. Any such attempted
limitation is declared t6 be unlawful and void. Then follows a proviso, which appears in full in the margin," and
the question for determination is whether, under he facts,
the case is within its terms.
The Interstate Commerce' Commission on Aprill 2, 1917,
in a proceeding wherein the Adams Express Company and
a number of other express companies (but not including
1

"Provided, however, That the provisions hereof respecting liability for full actual loss, damage, or injury, notwithstanding any limitation of liability or recoveiy or representation or agreement or
release as to value, and declaring any such limitation to be unlawful
and void, shall not apply, first, to baggage carried on passenger trains
or boats, or trains or boats carrying passengers; second, to property,
except ordinary live, stock, received for transportation concerning
which the carrier shall have been or shall hereafter be expressly
authorized or required by order of the Interstate Commerce Ccmmission to establish and -maiftaiu rates dependent upon the .vaue
declared in writing by the shipler or agreed upon in Writing as the
released 'value of the property, m wlich case such declaration, or

AMER. RY. EXP. CO. v. LINDENBURG.
584

587

-Opinion of the Court.

this petitioner) were parties, made an order in conformity
with this proviso, authorizing the express companies to
maintain rates dependent upon the value declared in
writing by the shipper or agreed upon in writing as the
released value of the property. The basic rate to be
established was upon a valuation not exceeding $50 for
any shipment of 100 pounds or less, or not exceeding 50
cents per pound for any shipment in excess of 100 pounds,
the rates to be progressively increased with increased valu-.
ations. The express companies were further authorized,
after notice, to amend the terms and conditions of the
uniform express receipt in accordance with a form preScribed.
The new form, so prescribed, contained a provision to'
the effect that "in consideration of the rate charged for
carrying said property, which is dependent upon the
value thereof and is basedupon an agreed valuation of.
not exceeding fifty dollars for any shipment of 100 pounds
or less, and not exceeding fifty cents per pound, actual
weight, for any shipment in excess of 100 pounds," the
shipper agrees, unless a greater value be declared at the
time of shipment, that the company shall not be liable in
any event for more than these amounts. At the time of
the shipment, the evidence shows there was in effect a
tariff of petitioner governing transportation between
Indianapolis and Charleston, duly publishea and filed
agreement shall have no other effect than to limit liability and recovery to an amount not exceeding the value so declared or released, and
shall not, so far as relates to values, be held to be a violation of
section ten of this Act to regulate commerce, as amended; and any
tariff schedule which may be filed with the compiission pursuant to
such order shall contain specific reference thereto and may establish
rates varying with the value so declared or agreed upon; and the
commission is hereby eapowered to make such order in cases where
rates dependent upon and varying with declared or agreed values
would, in its opinion, be just and reasonable under the circumstances
and conditions surrounding the transportation."

588

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

with the Interstate Commerce Commission, setting forth
the form of receipt prescribed by the Commission; and
that the cbarges made were in accordance with this tariff.
The receipt issued by petitioner, it will be seen, limits the
liability of the petitioner, not in the precise words of, but
substantially in accordance with, the provision contained
n the receipt authorized by the Commission; but it was
upon an old form which had been used previous to the
order f-the Commission and Contained some conditions
which were contrary to and declared to be void by the
Cummins Amendment. Neither the receipt nor any
declaration or agreement was signed by respondent or by
anyone in his behalf.
The judgment of the state appellate court is made to
rest upon the sole ground that petitioner did not take
from the shipper it written declaration-'of value or a written agreement as to value signed by him. Respondent
hereseeks to justify the judgment upon other' grounds as
well; and these we first consider.
In the first' place, -it is said that petitioner was never
expressly authorized or required by the Interstate-Com merce Commission to establish or maintain rates dependent upon declared or agreed values. It is frue the order
of the Commission, hereinbefore referred to, was made in
a proceeding in .which petitioner's name did not appear,
but petitioner subsequently published and filed with the
Commission a tariff, specifically referring to the order of
the Commission in that proceeding and containing the
form of receipt therein authorized, which tariff was in
effect at the time of the shipment, and had been in effect
for more than a year prior thereto. The transportation
charges were in conformity with the tariff, and the receipt
issued, in so far as the limitation of liability is concerned,
was in substantial accord with the authorized receipt.
The petitioner appears to have proceeded upon the assumption that the publication and filing of the tariff were

AMER. RY. EXP. CO. v. LINDENBURG.
584

589

Opinion of the Court.

authorized by the Commission's order, and there is nothing in the record to indicate that the Commission did not
so regard it. A copy of the tariff, certified by the Secretary of the Commission; was put in evidence. If these
facts do not warrant the logical inference of a grant of
authority, they do afford the basis for a legal presumption
to that effect, for, if petitioner was not duly authorized by
the Commission, its action in attempting to limit its liability was unlawful, and, as this Court said in Cincinnati,
New Orleans & Texas Pacific Ry. Co. v. Rankin, 241
U. S. 319, 327:
"It cannot be assumed, merely because the contrary
has not been established by proof, that an interstate carrier is conducting its affairs in violation of law. Such a
carrier must comply with strict requirements of the Federal statutes or become subject to heavy penalties, and in
respect of transactions in the ordinary course of business
it is entitled to the presumption of right conduct."
It is a rule of general application that "where an act
is dlone which can be done legally only after the performance of some prior act, proof of the later carries with it a
presumption of the due performance of the prior act."
Knox County v. Ninth National Bank, 147 U. S. 91, 97.
See also New York Central & Hudson River R. R. Co. v.
Beaham, 242 U. S. 148, 151.; Young v. South Tredegar
Iron 'Co., 85 Tenn. 189; Scottish Commercial Insurance
Co. v. Plummer, 70 Me. 540; 544.
In the-absence of proof to the contrary, we, therefore,
indulge the presumption that in basing its transportation
charges upon the values recited in the receipt, the petitioner had due authority.
It is next contended that the receipt which was issued
was unlawful and void because it contained conditions forbidden by the Cummins Amendment and prior statutes,
the principal condition being a limitation of the' carrier's
liability to its own routes or lines. But it does not appear

590

OCTOBER TERM, -1922
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

that the s-hipment in question came within the terms of
any of these conditions or that the obligations of petitioner in respect of the matter were in. any way affected,
thereby. Assuming their unlawful character, there is no
difficulty in separating them from the condition limiting
the liability by the declared valuation. We do not, therefore, deem it necessary to inquire in respect of the nature
or iextent of these alleged unlawful conditions, since, in
any event, their presence would not have the effect of
rendering unenforceable -the severable, valid provision
here relied upon, McCullough v. Virginia, 172 _U. S. 102,
113; United States v. Bradley, 10 Pet. 343, 360; Chicago,
St. Louis & New Orleans R. R. Co. v. Pullman Southern
Car Co., 139 U. S. 79, 91. In Pickeringv; Ilfracombe Ry.
Co., L. R. 3 C. P. C. 235, 250, the rule is stated by
Willes, J., as follows: "The general rule is that, where
you cannot sever the illegal from the legal part of a
covenant, the contract is altogether void; but, where you
can sever them, whether the illegality be created by statute or by the common law, you may reject the bad part
and retain the good." See also CincinnatiPacket Co. v.
Bay, 200 U. S. 179, 185.
We comenow to the point on which the judgment of
the state appellate court is grounded. That court held
that the petitioner should have given the shipper "a receipt specifying a value fixed by himself, and evidenced
by his signature. . . . A writing not signed by him,
although specifying value, was not a declaration or, agreement in "writingby him." 88 W. Va. 439, 443-4.
Neither the statute nor the order of the Commission
requires the signature of the shipper. The pertinent
words of the statute are: ". . . rites dependent upon
the value declared in writing by the shipper or agreed
upon in writing as the released value. . . ." It is not
to be supposed that the Commission would attempt to
add anything to the substantive rettuirements of the stat-

AMER. RY. EXP. CO. v. LINDENBURG.
584

591

Opinion of the Court.

ute, and its order does not purport to do so; but the form
of receipt which the express companies were authorized to
adopt contains a recital to the effect that as evidence of
the shipper's agreement to the printed conditions he
"accepts and signs this receipt," and a blank space is
provided for his signature. Naturally, such signature
would be desirable as constituting the most satisfactory
evidence of the shipper's agreement, but it is not made a
prerequisite without which no agreement will result, and
a subsequent report of the Commission on the subject of
bills of lading is persuasive evidence that there was no
such intention. In the Matter of Bills of Lading, 52
I. C. C. 671, 681, where it is said:
"It is sufficient if the shipper accepts the carrier's' bill
of lading without himself signing it. It becomes binding
upon hilA by his acceptance, he being presumed to know
and accept the conditions of the written bill of lading."
The respondent, by receiving and acting upon the receipt, although signed only by the petitioner, assented to
its terms and the same thereby became the written agreement of the parties. McMillan v. Michigan, S. & N. I.
R. R. Co., 16 Mich. -79;,The Henry B. Hyde, 82 Fed. 681.
In the absence of a statutory requirement, signing by the
respondent was not essential. Missouri, Kansas & Texas
Ry. Co. v. McCann, 174 U. S. 580, 590; Inman & Co. v.
Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co., 159 Fed. 960, 966. His signature, to be sure, would have brought into existence additional evidence of the agreement but it was not necessary
to give it effect. See Girard Insurance & Trust Co. v.
Cooper, 162 U. S. 529, 543. And his knowledge of its
contents will be presumed. Cau v. Texa- & Pacific Ry.
Co., 194 U. S. 427, 431; Kansas City Southern Ry. Co.
v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639, 652, 653, 656. "The receipt which
was accepted showed that the charge made was based
upon a valuation of fifty dollars unless a greater value
should be stated therein. The knowledge of the shipper

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

that the rate was based upon the value is to be presumed
from the terms of the bill of lading and of the published
schedules filed with the Commission." Adams Express
Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 1491,'508-509, 510, Having
accepted the benefit of the lower rate dependent upon the
specified valuation, the Tespondent is estopped from as.serting a higher value. To allow him to do so would be
to violate the plainest principles of fair dealing. Hart v.
Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 112 U. S. 331, 340; Adams Express CO. v. Croninger,sipra. In Kansas City Southern
Ry. Co. v. Carl, supra,this Court said: "To permit such
a declared valuation' to be overthrown by evidence
aliunde the contract, for the -purpose of enabling the shipper to obtain a recovery in a suit for loss or damage
in excess of the maximum valuation thus fixed, would
both encourage and reward -undervaluations and-bring
about preferences and discriminations forbidden by the
law. Such a result would neither be just nor conducive
to sound morals or wise policies."
The judgment of the state appellate court is reversed
and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.,
Reversed.
HILL ET AL., EXECUTORS OF HILL, v. SMITH.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.

No' 164. Argued .January 3, 1923.-Decided January 15, 1923.
1. A federal question which was treated as open, and decided, by the
State Supreme Court, will be reviewed here without inquiring
whether its federal character was adequately called to the attention
of the state trial court. P. 594.
2. A question of burden of proof may amount to a federal question
when intimately involving substantive rights under a federal statute. P. 594.

