OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

KEOGH v. CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 51. Argued October 12, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. Approval of rates as reasonable and non-discriminatory, by the
Interstate Commerce Commission, fixes their character as such in
relation to a shipper who took part in the proceedings. P. 161.
2. A combination of carriers to fix rates may be illegal and subject to
proceedings by the Goyernment, under the Anti-Trust Act, even
though the rates are reasonable and non-discriminatory, and, it
seems, even, though they have been approved byr the Interstate
Commerce Commission. P. 161.
3. But a private shipper cannot recover damages from the carriers
in sucli a case, under § 7 of the Anti-Trust Act, upon the ground
that he lost the benefit of rates still lower, which, but for the conspiracy, he would have enjoyed, because:
(a) The fact that a rate results from a conspiracy in violation of the
Anti-Trust Act does not render it necessarily illegal; and, as the
legality of rates is determined by the Act to Regulate Commerce,
and the shipper who suffers from illegal (unreasonable or discriminatory) rates has his remedy in damages under that act, it seems
.that Congress did not intend to provide him a further remedy for
such illegal rates under § 7 of the Anti-Trust Act, and a fortiori
none where the rates fixed by the conspiracy were found legal by
the Commission. P. 162.
(b) The right of action given by § 7 of the Anti-Trust Act to one
"injured in his business 6r property," implies violation of a legal
right; .but the legal right of a shipper respecting a carrier's rates
is measured by the published tariff, and, to enforce a departure
from this through a recovery under § 7, would be, in effect, to give
the shipper an illegal preference. P. 163.
(c) Recovery would depend upon the plaintiff's proving that lower
rates, which, but for the conspiracy, the carriers would have maintained, would have been non-discriminatory-a question which,'
generically, must first be submitted to the Interstate Commerce
Commission, yet which, specifically, is not within its cognizancq,
because hypothetical. P. 163.

KEOGH v. C. & N. W. RY. CO.
156

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

(d) Th damages, if any, resulting to the shipper from the establishment of the higher rates could not be proved by facts from which
their ex-stence and amount were logically and legally inferable,
but are purely speculative. P. 164.
271 Fed. 444, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming a judgment of the District Court for
defendant railroad companies and individuals, in an action brought by Keogh under § 7 of the Anti-Trust Act
to recover damages alleged to have resulted from a combination to fix railroad rates, in restraint of interstate
commerce.
-Mr. H. P. Young, with whom Mr. W. T. Alden, Mr.
C. R. Latham and Mr. Charles Martinwere'on the briefs,
for plaintiff in error.
Sections 1 and 2 of the Anti-Trust Act prohibit all
contracts and combinations which directly restrain trade
or commerce.
Competition is the natural law of trade and the AntiTrust Act was intended to prevent any contracts or combinations which destroy or stifle competition.
The mere fact-that the rates fixed and maintained by
-the combination of the defendant companies were not
excessive or unreasonable does not constitute a defense
to an action under the Anti-Trust Act. Standard Oil
Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, 65; United States v.
American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106, 179; United States
v. Joint Traffic Association-, 171 U. S. 505, 571; United
States v. Trans-MissouriFreight Association, 166 U. S.
290, 339; United States v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 226
U. S. 61, 83; Northern Securities Co. v. United States,
193 U. S. 197, 340; Thomsen v. Cayser, 243 U. S. 66, 86;
GrenadaLumber Co. v. Mississippi, 217 U. S. 433.
The right of a railroad company to charge reasonable
rates does not include the right to enter into an agreement or combination to maintain reasonable rates.

158

OCTOBER TERM,, 1922.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

260 U. S.

It was the duty of the defendants to compete, and the
Anti-Trust Act has a stricter application to them than
to combinations of persons or corporations engaged in
private pursuits. United States v. Trans-Missouri
FIeight Association, 166 U. S. 290, 336; Thomsen v.
Cayser, 243 U. S. -66, 85; United States v. Union Pacific
R. R. Co., 226 U. S. 61, 86.
The natural effect of competition is to lower rates, and
the direct and immediate effect of the agreement or combination described in the declaration was to increase the
rates over the prevailing competitive rates.
The declaration alleges that plaintiff was compelled to
pay more than a reasonable competitive rate, and that
his business was injured and he suffered, a loss of profits.
These are 'proper elements of damage under the statute.
A general allegation of damages is sufficient, especially
where no special demurrer or motion to make more specific is filed. The amount of such damages should hav'i
been submitted to the jury.
The findings of the Interstate Commerce Commission
are not, a bar to this suit, nor even admissible'in evidence..
The Commission has no power to decide questions arising
under the Anti-Trust Act, and it has so held in the decisions relied upon in the special pleas of defendants.
The Commission is an administrative body and its
findings have only the effect provided by statute. The
act creating it does not give its findings any effect in other
than proceedings under the Commerce Act. Even where
the Commission makes a money award, its order is only
prima facie evidence of the facts therein stated. Meeker
v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 236 U. S. 412.
The finding of the Commission relates to a maximum
rate which carriers must not exceed. It has no power
to name .the specific rate to be clharged, nor can it determine the reasonable rates that would prevail under natural or competitive conditions.

KEOGH v. C. & N. W. RY. CO.
156

Opinion of the Court.

Plaintiff is entitled under the Constitution to have a
jury pass upon the issues and assess the damges.
Even in an action under the Commerce Act to recover
damages for excessive freight charges, wherein the award
of damages made by the Commission is admitted as prima
facie evidence, the plaintiff is entitled to a jury trial.
The mere fact that the increased rates were filed with
the Commission and published by the*defendants separately, does not exempt them from liability under the
Anti-Trust Act for their unlawful acts iagreeing jointly
upon the rat~s. The Commerce Act cannot be made a
refuge for violators of the Anti-Trust Act.
Mr. Bruce Scott, with whom Mr. R. V. Fletcher, kr.
Kenneth F. Burgess and Mr. J. C. James were on the brief,
for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This action, under § 7 of the Anti-Trust Act, July 2,
1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, was brought by Keogh in the
federal District Court for Northern Illinois, Eastern
Division, in November, 1914. Eight railroad companies
and twelve individuals were made defendants. The case
was heard upon demurrer to a special plea; the demurrer
was overruled; judgment was entered for defendants,
plaintiff electing to stand upon his demurrer; and this
judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit. 271 Fed. 444. The case is here
on writ of error.
The cause of action set forth was this: Keogh is a
manufacturer of excelsior and flax tow at St. Paul,
Minnesota. The defepdant corporations' are interstate
carriers engaged -in transporting freight from St; Paul to
points in other States. Prior to September 1, 1912, these
carriers formed an association known as the Western

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

Trunk Line Committee. The individual defendants are
officers and agents of the carriers and represent them in
that Committee. It is a function of the Committee to
secure agreement in respect to freight rates among the
constituent railroad companies, which would otherwise be
competing carriers. By means of such agreement, competition as to interstate rates from St. Paul on excelsior
and tow was eliminated; uniform rates were established;
and -interstate commerce was restrained. The uniform
rates so established were arbitrary and unreasonable;
they were higher than those theretofore charged; and
they were higher than the rates would have been if competition had not been thus eliminated. Through -this
agreement for uniform rates Keogh was damaged. The
declaration contains a schedule of the amounts paid by
him in excess of those which would have been paid under
*rates prevailing before September 1, 1912, and which, but
for the conspiracy, would have remained in effect. He
claims -damages to the extent of this difference in rates.
He also alleges as an item of damages that the increase
in freight rates lessened the value of his St. Paul factory
through loss of profits.
. Defendants set up the fact that every rate complained
of had been duly filed by the several carriers with the
Interstate Commerce Commission; that upon such filing
the rates had been suspended for investigation, upon.
complaint of Keogh, pursuant to the Act to Regulate
Commerce, February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, 384,
as amended; that after extensive hearings, in which
Keogh participated, the rates were approved by the Commission;' and that they were not made effective until after
they had been so approved. The character of the proceedings before the Commission was more fully shown by
reference to Keogh v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
R: R. Co., 24 I. C. C. 606; also Rates on Excelsior and
Flax Tow from St. Paul, Minn., 26 I. C. C. 689; Rates

KEOGH v. C. & N. W. RY. CO.

161

Opinion of the Court.

156

on Excelsior and Flax Tow from St. Paul, Minn., 29 I.
C. C. 640; Morris, Johnson, Brown,'Manufacturing Co.
v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 30 I. C. C. 443; The Excelsior and Flax Tow Cases, 36 1. C. C. 349.
The case is presented on these pleadings. Whether
there is a cause of action under § 7 of the Anti:Trust
Act is the sole question for decision. Keogh contends.
that his rights are not limited to the protection against
unreasonably high or discriminatory rates afforded him
by the Act to Regulate'Commerce;' that undef the AntiTiust Act he was entitled to the benefit of competitive
rates; that the elimination of competition caused the
increase in his rates; and that, as he has been damaged
thereby, he is entitled to recover. The instrument by
which Keogh is alleged to have been damaged is rates
approved by the Commission. It is, however, conceivable that, but for the action of the Western- Tfink Line
Committee, one, or. more, of these railroads would have
maintained lower rates. Rat6s somewhat lower might
also have been reasonable. Moreover, railroads had
often, in the fierce struggle for business, established unremunerative rates. Since the case arose prior -to the
Transportation Act 1920, February 28, c. 91, § 418, 41
Stat. 456, 474, 485, the carriers were at liberty to establish
or maintain, even unreasonably low rates provided they
were not discriminatory. Compare Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 145' U. S.
263, 277; Skinner & Eddy Corporationv. United States,
249 U. S. 557, 565.
All the rates fixed were reasonable and -non-discriminatory. That was settled by the proceedings before
the Commission. Los Angeles Switching Case, 234 U. S.
294. But under the Anti-Trust Act, a cohabination of
carriers to fix reasonable and non-discriminatory rates
may be illegal; and if so, the Government may have redress by criminal proceedings under
3,-by injunction
45646°-23-11

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

under § 4, and by forfeiture under § 6 That was settled
by United States v. Trans-MissouriFreight Association,
166 U. S. 290, and United States v. Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505. The fact that these rates.had been
approved by the Commission would not, it seems, bar
proceedings by the Government. It does not, however,
follow that Keogh, a private shipper, may, recover damages under § 7 because he lost the -benefit of rates still
lower, which, but for the conspiracy he would have enjoyed. . There are several reason. why he cannot.
A rate is fiot necessarily illegal because it is the result
of a conspiracy in restraint of trade in violation of the
Anti-Trust Act. What rates are legal is determined by
the Act to Regulate Commerce. Under § 8 of the latter
act the exaction of any illegal rate makes the carrier
liable to the "person injured thereby for the full amount
of damages sustained in consequence of any such violation" together with a reasonable attorney's fee. Sections
9 and 16 provide for the recovery of such damages either
by complaint before the Commission or by an action in a
federal court. If the conspiracy here complained of- had
resulted in rates which the Commission found to be illegal
because unreasonably high or discriminatory, the full
amount of the damages sustained, whatever their nature,
would have been recoverable in such proceedings. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Ohio Valley Tie. Co., 242
U. S. 288. Can it be that Congress intended to provide
the shipper, from whom illegal rates have been exacted,
with an additional remedy under the Anti-Trust Act?
See Meeker v. Lehigh Valley R. R. "Co., 162 Fed. 354.
And if no remedy under the Anti-Trust Law is given
where the injury results from the fixing of rates which are
illegal, because too high or discriminatory, may it be
assumed that Congress intended to give such a remedy
where, as here, the rates complaine.d of have been found
by the Commission to be legal and while in force had to be
collected by the carrier?

KEOGH -v. C. & N. W..RY. CO.
156

163

Opinion of the Court:

Section. 7 of the Anti-Trust Act gives a right of action
to one who has been " injured in his business or property."
Injury implies violation of a legal right. The legal rights
of shipper as against carrier in respet to a rate are measured by the published tariff. Unless and until suspended
or set aside, this rate is made, for all purposes, the legal
rate, as between carrier and shipper. The rights as defined by the tariff cannot be varied or enlarged by either
contract or tort of the carrier. Texas & Pacific R. R. Co.
v. Mugg, 202 U. S. 242; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.
v. Maxwell, 237 U. S. 94; Atchison, Topeka & San'ta Fe
Ry. Co. v. Robinson, 233 U. S. 173; Dayton Iron Co. v.
Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas Pacific Ry. Co., 239
U. S. 446;'ErieR. R. Co. v. Stone, 244 U. S. 332. And
they are not affected by the tort of a third party. Compare Pittsburgh,Cincinnati,Chicago & St. Louis Ry. Co.
v. Fink, 250 U. S. 577. This stringent rule prevails, because otherwise the paramount purpose of Congressprevention of unjust discrimination-might be defeated.
If a shipper could recover under § 7 of the Anti-Trust Act
for damages resuling from the exaction of a rate higher
than that which would otherwise have prevailed, the
amount recovered might, like a rebate, operate* to give
him a preference over his trade competitors. It is no
answer to say that each of these might bring a similar
action under § 7. Uniform treatment would not result,
even if all shed, unless the highly improbable happened,
and the several juries and courts gave to each the same
measure of relief. Compare Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, 440.
The character of the issues involved raises another
obstacle to the maintenance of the action. The burden
resting upon the plaintiff would not be satisfied by proving that some carrier would, but for the illegal conspiracy,
have maintained a rate lower than that published. It
would be necessary for the plaintiff to prove, also, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of. the Court.

260 U. S.

the hypothetical lower rate would have -conformed to the
requirements of the Act to' Regulate Commerce. For
unless the lower rate was one which the carrier could
have maintained legally, the changing of it could not conceivdbly give a cause of action. To be legal a rate mustj
be non-discriminatory. And the proceedings before the
Commission in this controversy illustrate how readily
claims of unjust discrimination arise. See Morris, John-,
son, Brown, Manufacturing CO.v. Illinois Central R. R.
CO., 30 I. C. C.-443. For this reason, it'is possible that
no lower rate from St. Paul on tow and excelsior could
have been legally maintained without reconstituting the
whole rate structure for many articles moving in an important section of the country.. But it is the Commission
which must determine whether a rate is discriminatory;
at least, in the first instance. See Abilene Case, supra;
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Merchants Elevator Co., 259
U. S. 285. It has been suggested that this requireanent does not necessarily bar an action involving that
issue; for-a court-might suspend its proceeding until
the question of discrimination had been deterimined by
the Commission. -But here the difficulty presented could
not be cvercome by such a practice. The powers conferred upon the Commission' are broad. It may investigate and decide'whether a rate has been, whether it is, or
whether it would be'discriminatory. But by no coinceivable proceeding could the question whether a hypothetical
lower rate would under- conceivable conditions have been
discriminatory, be submitted to the Commission for determination. And that hypothetical question is one with
which plaintiff would necessarily be confronted at a trial.
-Finally, not only does the injury complained of rest on
hypothesis (compare InternationalHarvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 .U.S.216, 222-224); .but the danfiages alleged
are purely speculative. Under-§ 7 of the Anti-Trust Act,
.sunder § 8 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, Pennsyl-

KEOGH v. C. & N. W. RY. CO.
156

165

Opinion of the Court.

vania R. R. Co. v. International.Coal Mining Co., 230
U. S. 184, recovery cannot be had unless itis shown, that,
as 'aresult of defendants' acts, damages in some amount
susceptible of expression in figures resulted. These damages must be proved by facts from which their existence
is logically and legally inferable. They cannot be supplied by conjecture.' To make proof of such facts would
be impossible in the case before us.. It is not like those
cases where a shipper recovers from )the carrier the
amount by which its exaction' exceeded the legal rate.
Southern Pacific Co. v. Darnell-Taenzer Co., 245 U. S.
531. Here the instrument by which the damage is alleged
to have been inflicted is the legal rate, which, while in
effect, had to be collected from all shippers. Exaction of
this higher legal rate -maynot have injured Keogh at all;
for a lower rate might not have benefited him. Every
competitor was entitled to be put-and we must presume
would have been put-on a parity with him. And for
every article competing with excelsior and tow, like adjustment of the rate must have been made. Under these
circumstances no court or jury could say that, if the rate
had been lower, Keogh would have enjoyed the difference
between the rates or that any other advantage would have
accrued to him. The benefit might have gone to his customers, or conceivably, to the ultimate consumer.
Affirmed.
'Compare Central Coal & Coke Co. v. Hartman, 111 Fed. 96;
Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Eclair Film Co., 208 Fed. 416;
Locker v. American Tobacco Co., 218 Fed. 447; American Sea Green
Slate Co. v. O'Halloran, 229 Fed. 77, 79; Noyes v. Parsons, 245

Fed. 689.

