OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

institution of party walls is mutual benefit, (Smoot v.
Heyl, 227 U. S.518, 523), which implies equality of easement of support and of occupation of land between the
neighbors, and that to give to the builder of the first wall
such great advantage over his neighbors as these regulations give him deprives his neighbor of property without
I
due process of law.
The questions thus raised niight justify discussion if
the plainfiff in eror were in a positi9n to urge them, and
had not used the origh&I party wall of which he cornplains. His contention below was that he had not used
the wall of his neighbor, that he had built a new wall at
the side oP the original party. wail as high as the original
wall and then had widened it to 13 inches so as to extend
over the original wall without resting on it. The jury
found agaifisc him on this issue. If he did use the
original wa1% then -he must pay for the value of the use.
Fowler v. Saks, 7 Mackey, 570, 581; Fowler v. Koehler,
using it, he waived the right
43 App. D. C. 34, 360.
to object to the regulations with which he complied without objectio, until he was called upon to pay his share
of that -hich he had taken and used.
""
The judgment is affirmed.
-In

-

BLAMBERG BROTHERS. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL -FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

No. 165.

Argued December 5- 1922..-Decided January 2, 1923.

The second section of the Suits in Admiralty Act does not authorize
a suit i" 72ersolam against the, United States, as a substitute for
a libel in rem, when the United States vessel is not in/a port of
the United States or ofofie of her possessions. P..458.
-'272 Fed. 978, affiued."

BLAMBERG BROS. v. UNITED STATES. 453
452

Argument for Appellant.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
a libel in admiralty for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. D. Roger Englar,with whom Mr. James.W. Ryan,
Mr. J. Edward Tyler, Jr., and Mr. T. Catesby Jones were
on the briefs, for appellant.
The remedy afforded by § 2 of the Act of March 9,
1920, is not limited to cases where, if the vessel were privately owned, a proceeding in admiralty could have been
maintained within the territorial limits of the United
States, but is available generally to all persons who could
have maintained proceedings in admiralty against vessels of the United States anywhere in the world prior to
the passage of this act. Smith v. United Slates (unreported, Dist. Court, Eastern Dist. Louisiana, August 4,
1922); Phoenix Paint & Varnish Co. v.. United States
(unreported, Dist. Court, Eastern Dist. Pennsylvania,
November 17, 1921).
This conclusion is supported by the fact that, if the
substitute remedy were not available so long as the vessel
remained outside the United States, § 5 of the act would
deprive the libelant of any remedy in cases like the present, where the vessel did not return within the time
provided for suit.
The argument of the Government and the decision of
the judge below proceed on the assumption that the
United States desired to force its citizens to sue its vessels
in the courts of foreign countries wherever this remedy
was available to them, although opening its own courts
to such suits where jurisdiction could be had only in
those courts. As might be expected, this view finds no
support in the language of the act. On the contrary, § 7
indicates. an intent by Congress to prevent, as far as lay
in its power, the seizure of vessels of the ,United Stateg
in foreign countries as well as in the United States; and
to concentrate all such litigation in its own, courts.

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellant.

260 U. S.

Moreover, the United States would thus avoid incurring
the expense of furnishing surety bonds, and of retaining
dounsel to defend it in litigation in foreign countries.
Congress clearly intended to substitute the personal
credit of the United States for the security of the particular vessel. In the-present case the libelant -had a
right to arrest the. "Catskill" as security for its claim.
Having that-right, it was within the class of vesselcfeditors entitled to sue the United States in personam..
Section 8 of the act, providing that decrees in suits
under the act shall be payable "' out of any money in the
Treasury of the United States not otherwise appropriated," is substantially a pledge by the United States of
*those unappropriated moneys in the Treasury as a fund
or stipulation to meet the liabilities incurred by the Shipping Board's vessels. This general pledge or stipulation
was apparently intended as a substitute for multitudinous
stipulations to release individual vessels from arrest. It
was intended to be available to everyone who previously
had a right to have a United States vessel arrested as
security.
If Congress intencLed to prevent vessels from being
delayed because of arrest under legal process, the theory
of the lower court that the libelant in the present case
should have arrested the vessel in Cuba would, by encouraging delay to the vessel, violate the intention of
Congress.
Congress intended to grant a right to sue the United
States in personam to everyone who had a cause of
action against the vessel under § 9 of the Shipping Act
of 1916. This would be so even if the libelant had no
presenet 1hbility to arrest the. vessel, provided it had aright or cause of action against her.
Sections 1 and,7 of the Suits in Admiralty Act repeal
the remedy provided by § 9 of the Shipping Act of 1916.
The first senteince of § -2of the Suits in Admiralty Act

BLAMBERG BROS. v. UNITED STATES. . 455
452

Argument for Appellant.

defines that part of § 9 of the Shipping Act of 1916
which is not repealed. In other words, the first sentence
of § 2 of the Suits in Admiralty Act deals only with
causes of action, substantive rights or liabilities. The
second sentence deals only with venue. Therefore, the
phrase in the first sentence, if "a proceeding in admiralty could be maintained at the time of the commencement of the action herein provided foi," requires only
that the cause of action or substantive right be of an
admiralty nature, and was merely intended to exclude
common-law causes of action on which the vessel might
be arrested under foreign attachment.
The first sentence does not require that the libelant be
able to arrest the vessel at the time he files his libel. It
merely requires that he have an admiralty cause of action
enforceable, if the vessel were privately owned, on her
coming within the court's territorial jurisdiction. Congress eliminated from the original bill a proposed requiremen't in the first sentence that the substitute remedy
should be available only if, in addition to there being an
admiralty cause of action, "the vessel or cargo could be
arrested or attached at the time of the commencement of
suit." As finally passed, the act merely requires the
libelant to show that his' caise of action or substantive
right is one such as District Courts " ordinarily have cognizance" of "in their admiralty and maritime .jurisdictions."
The United States, by appearing generally and answering in this suit, theie having bVen at the time the suit
was commenced jurisdiction of the pers6n or vessel at
Havana, waived any requirement as to 'venue or jurisdiction of the person. United States v. Hvoslef, 237
U. S. 1, 11. A suit in Havana against a vessel owned
by the United States would be a suit against the United
States. The Western Maid, 257 U. S. 491.
It was unnecessary for the libelant to elect whether
to proceed in personam or in rem; but the libelant did in

456 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

fact elect to proceed in accordance with the principles of
libels in rem.'
Mr.-Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Assistant
Attorney General Ottinger, Mr. J.Frnk Staley, Special
Assistant to.the Attorney General, and Mr.Norman B.
Beecher were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICEi
Court.

TAFT leliver'ed

the opinion of the

an appeal from the District Court of Maryland
This 'is
on a question of jurisdiction duly -certified by the District
I
Judge.
The appellant, a corporation of Maryland, February
26, 1921, filed a libel in personam' against the'United
States under the Suits'in Adn irlty Act, approved March
9,192Q, c. 95,41 Stat. 525. The libel alleged that on October 6,1920, thelibelant had shipped 1500 bags of corn from
Baltimore to,Havana,, Cuba, to its own order, upon the
barge" Catskill," that the corn had never been delivered
in accordance with the terms of the bills of lading, and
that due to the delay the com had. greatly deteriorated in
value, whereby libelant had been damaged in the sum
of $15,000., The libel - ntained- this averment, "Third.
-That said barge,' Catskill' is now, or will be, during the
pendency of process hereunder, within this District and
within the jurisdictioniof this Honorable Court."
The United States made answer April 22, 1921, through
the district attorney. It admitted that it was the qualified owner, of the "Catskill," but denied that it was
or had ever been, in charge of the operation of the barge.
It 'alleged that it entered into a coptract for the sale of
the barge "July 26, 1920, for sixty thousand dollars, six
thousand dollars in cash and the balance in monthly
instalments' of three" thousand dollars, that the vendee
had defaulted in all the monthly payments, that the

BLAMBERG BROS. v. UNITED STATES." 457
452

Opinion of the Court.

barge was delivered to the vendee June 30, 1920, and the
United States had no control over her, management or
operation, and did not make the contract of affreightment described in the libel. In answer to the third paragraph of the libel the respondent alleged that it was
advised that the barge was in Havana and had no knowledge when it would arrive in the jurisdiction of the court.
On May 3, 1921, having obtained leave of court, the
United States as respondent fied a suggestion of want
of jurisdiction in which it averred positively that the
barge was then in the port of Havana, Cuba, where it had
been libeled in the sum of $3,725 for wage claims. It
further averred that libels in personam had been filed
against it in three other district courts of the United
States for claims aggregating a-sum in excess of the value
of the barge which was alleged not to exceed $50,000.
The suggestion concludes that the respondent can not
be proceeded against by a libel in personam, or by a libel
in the nature of an in rem proceeding as provided for by
the Suits in Admiralty Act, for the reason that at the time
of filing the libel, and at all times thereafter, the barge
"Catskill" was and had been at the port of Havana,
Cuba, and without the jurisdiction of the court. The
libelant, answering the suggestion, alleged that, although
under the facts as alleged, no direct personal liability arose
against the respondent under the general law, yet under
the Suits in Admiralty Act, a right to bring a libel in
personam was created as a substitute for an ordinarylibel
inrem and that the presence of the barge in the jurisdic-tion of the court was not essential to such jurisdiction in
personam.
The first section of* the Suits in Admiralty Act provides that no vessel or cargo owned by the United States
"shall hereafter, in view'of the provision hereib. made
for a libel in personam; be subject to arrest or seizure by
judicial process in the United States or its possessions,"

45&

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

The second section provides that in.cases where, if such
vessel were privately owned, a proceeding in admiralty
could be maintained, b.libel in personam may be brought
against th6 United States, provided the vessel is employed as a merchant vessel or a tugboat. The suits are
to be brought in the United. States District Court where
the libelants live or have their principal place of business in the United States, or in which the vessel or cargo
chargedt with liability-"may be found. Provision is made
for manner of service' and, upon application of either
party, for the transfer of such libels to any other district
in the discretion of the court.
By the seventh section of the act, if any vessel
or cargo
of the United States is seized by process of a court of any
country other than the Unit,6d States, the Secretary of
State of the United States -in his discretion, upon request
of the Attorney General, may direct the United States
consul residing near the port6f seizure to claim immunity
from -such suit and seizure and to 6xecute a bond on
behalf df the United States as the court may require for
the release of the vessel or cargb.
The District Court on the facts stated-'held thAt it was
without jurisdiction under this statute to entertain a libel
in personam against the United States. We agree with
that holding.' The first section of the act is limited in
its inhibition of seizures of vesgels and cargoes of the
United States to ports of the United States and its possessions. The second section is in pari materia, and the
same limitation must be implied in -its construction.
This act ,was passed'to avoid the'embarrassment to which
the GoVernment found itself subjected by the Act of
September 7, 1916, c. 451, 39 Stat. '728, by the ninth
section of which vessels in which the United States had
an interest and which were employed as merchant vessels
were made liable as such to arrest or seizure for enforcement 'of maritime liens.-' The Lake Monroe, 250 U. S.

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. VAN ZANT.
452

459

Syllabus.

246. It was intended to substitute this proceeding in
personam, as the first section of the act expressly indicates, in lieu of the previous unlimited right of claimants
to libel such vessels in rem in the ports of the United
States and its possessions. Congress had no power, however, to enact immunity from seizure in respect of such
vessels when in foreign ports, and therefore the embarrassment of seizures was to be mitigated in another way,
i. e., by claiming immunity on international girounds and,
if that failed, by stipulation or bond in the name of the
United States. The provisions of the seventh section
confirm the 'construction by which proyisions of the
second section are limited in their application to vessels
within the jurisdiction of the United States.
A number of important questions as to the construction
of this statute have arisen in other cases,, and the argument before us has taken a wide range. Those questions
do not require decision here, and we do not deide them.
All we hold here is that the District Court was right in
construing the second section of the Suits in Admiralty
Act not to authorize a suit in personarnm against the
United States as a substitute for a libel in rem when the
United States vessel is not in a port of the United States
or of one of her possessions.
Affirmed.
KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. VAN ZANT.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME, COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSOURI.

No. 142. Argued December 4, 1922.-Decided January 2, 1923.
1. By forbidding common carriers engaged in interstate commerce
to issue free passes for interstate journeys, except to specified
classes of persons, (Hepburn Act, 1906,) Congress took over the

