LEE v. CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY.
Statement of the Case.

LEE v. CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 422. Argued January 5, 1923.-Decided January 22, 1923.
1. A case which, by virtue of the diverse citizenship of the.parties,
falls within the general jurisdiction of the District Courts as conferred by Jud. Code, § 24, is within the general jurisdiction of a
District Court sitting in a State of which neither party is a citizen.
P. 654.
2. The clause of Jud. Code, § 51, providing that such suits shall" e
brought only in the District Court in the district of the residence
of 'either the plaintiff or the defendant does not limit the general
jurisdiction created by § 24, or withdraw any suit therefrom, but
merely confers a personal privilege on the defendant, which he
may assert or waive, at his election. P. 655.
3. Whenever such a suit is removed from a state court under Jud.
Code, § 28, the removal must be, to the District Court in. the disirict where the suit is pending. Id., §§ 29, 53. P. 656.
4. The right of removal under § 28 is exercisable by the defendant
or defendants without regard to the assent of the plaintiff. P. 658.
5. An action, between citizens of different. States, begun in a court
of a State of which neither is a citizen, is removable hy the defendant to the District Court of the district in which the suit is
pending. P. 658. Ex parte Wisner, 203 U. S. 449, overruled; In
re Moore, 209 U. S. 490, qualified.
6. The purpose of the Act of August. 13, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 433,
to contract the jurisdiction of th6 Circuit Courts affords no7 basis
for subtracting from its provisions where definite and free from
ambiguity. P. 660.
Affirmed.
ERROR to a judgrfient of the District Court sustaining
its jurisdiction and dismissing the 6omplaint, in an action
for personal injuries removed from. a state court.

Mr. Allan.D. Cole, with whom Mr. H. W. Cole and Mr.
W. A. Byron were on the brief, for plaintiff in eiror,

654,

-

0TOBER TERM,- 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

Myr. E. L. Wprthington, with -whom Mr. LeWrMight
Browning and Mr. Stanley Reed were on the brief, for
defendant in error.
-delivered the opinion of

AIR. JUSTICE VAN-_ DEVXNTER

the Court.

-

This was an action, to recover damages in the sum of,
ten, thousand dollars for personal injuries alleged' to have
been sustaifned by the plaintiff while entering one of the
defendant's passenger trains in Kentucky for ai intrastate
trip. The plaintiff was a citizen and, resident of Texas
and the defendant a-crporate citizen and resident of Virginia., The actiQn was begun in.a state court in Bracken
County, Kentucky, andt because of the diverse, citizenship- ofl the parties, was removed, at- the defendant's instance, into the District' Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Kentucky, which includes Bracken
County. WVhen the transcript reached the District Court,
the plaintiff moved that the cause' be remanded to the
state court on the ground that' the District Court was
without 'jurisdiction in that neither party was a reident
of-thAt -district. The' motion was overruled, the plaintiff
elected to stand on the motion, and judgment was given
for the defendant. The plaintiff then brought the case
here.on a direct-writ of'errorJud. Code, § 238, to obtain a
review- of the ruling on his motion to rdmand.
'Under the Constitution, Art. III;!§ 2, the judicial power
extends, among other cases, to such as arise under the
Constitution, laws and treaties of the United States; and
to such as 'are betwee'n citizens of 'diffedrent- States.
Section 24 of theJud-icial Code definmes the general jurisdiction of the Disfrict Courts, the-pertinient provision being as follows:
'
"The district courts shall have original jurisdiction
of all suits of a civil nature, at common law or
in equity, . . . where the matter in controversy ex'

'

LEE v. CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY.
653

Opinion of the Court.

ceeds, exclusive of interest and cos, -, the sum or value of
three thousand dollars, and (a) arises under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or treaties made, or
which shall be made, under their authority, or (b) is between citizens of different States,
"
This grant of jurisdiction covers two distinct classes of
suits. In one the citizenship of the parties is not an element, while in the other it is the distinctive feature. As
to the suit before us it is very clear that the diverse citizenship of the parties and the sum involved bring it
within the latter class, and therefore within the general
jurisdiction of the District Courts.
Section 51 of the Code relates to the venue of suits
originally begun in those courts, and provides, subject to
exceptions not material here, that" .
no civil suit shall be brought in any district
court against any person by any original process or proceeding in any other district than that whereof he is an
inhabitant; but where the jurisdiction is founded only on
the fact that the action is between citizens of different
States, suit shall be brought only in the- district of the
residence of either the plaintiff or the defendant."
It is a necessary conclusion from repeated decisions,
going back to the original Judiciary Act of 1789, that this
provision does not limit the general jurisdiction of the
District Courts or withdraw any suit therefrom, but
merely confers a personal privilege on the defendant,
which he may assert, or may waive, at his election, and
does waive if, when sued in some other district, he enters
an appearance without claiming his privilege. ,Gracie v.
Palmer, 8 Wheat. 699; Toland v. -Sprague, 12 Pet. 300,
330; Ex parte Schollenberger, 96 U. S.369, 378 Central
Trust Co. v. McGeorge, 151 U. S.129; Interior Construction Co. v. Gibney, 160 U. S.217; United States v. Hvoslef, 237 U S.1, 12; Camp v. Gress, 250 U. S.308, 311;
General Investment Co. v. Lake Shore & Michigan South-

656

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

ern--.y. Co.,-ante, 261- The "foftowing 'excerpt from Interior Construction-Co. v. Gibney,-p. 219, is 'particular

apposite:

"

."The Circuit Courts 'of the-United States'"are thus
vested with general jurisdiction of civil actions, involving
the requisite pecuniary value,betwebn citizens of different
States. Diversity of xcitizenship is a condition'of jurisdicti6n, and,' when'that does not appear•upon the record, the
court,_ of its, own motion, will order the action to be dismissed.1 -But 'the proVisioli as to the particular district
in which the, action shall',be brought does iot touch the
.general ju.risdiction of the 'courtbd'er such a cause between'
'such -parties; but 'affects only the proceedings taken -to
bring the defendant withini such jurisdilctioh,' and ig 'a matter of personal privilege-' Which the defendant ma r insist
upon, or may waive; at his election;' andhe -defendant's
right.to'object that an action, within the general jurisdiction :of- the court, 'is-brought in he -wrong district, is
waived, by 6ntering a 'general appearance, withouit taking
the objection."..
Section-28 of the Code deals With thd jurisdiction of the
District Courts on'removals from the state courts, salying,
'
''
so -far asis material here,"Any'suit f a civil nature,' at law or il equity, arising'
under the Constitution' or laws 'of the United States, or
lde, under their autreaties' made, or which :hall b6 :l''
thority, -of.which th'e district co-Uits. of the United States
are given 'origial -jurisdiction by 'this title, Which may,
hereafter b-e brought; in
y0rwhich-may
now be pending
y 'be removed by'the defendant or
any State court,'
defendants therein' to the district couirt of the United
States for the proper district. Any other suit of a civil
nature, 'atl'aw or in equity, of which the district courts of
the United States are given, jurisdichisn by ihis title, and,
which are now iending or which- may hereafter bebrought, in any State court, may be 'removed into the dis-

LEE v. CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY.
653-

Opinion of the Court.

trict court of the United States for the proper district by
the defendant or defendants therein, being non-residents
of that State."
Section 29 deals, among other things, with the venue on
removals and shows that in every instance the removal
must be into the district court "in the district where such
suit is pending;" and this requirement is emphasized by
§ 53, which directs that where the district is composed
of two or more distinct divisions the removal shall be into
the District Court "in the'division inwhich the county is
situated from which the removal is made." Thus the
wvords "for the proper district," in § 28, find exact definition in §§ 29 and 53; and that definition conforms to what
has appeared in all removal statutes beginning with the
original Judiciary Act of 1789.1
The several provisions of the Code before quoted were
considered in the recent case of General Investment Go. v.
Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Ry. Co., supra, 275,
where their meaning and their relation one to another
were summed up as follows:
"Section 24 contains a, typical grant of original jurisdiction to the District Courts in general of 'all suits' in
the classes falling within its descriptive terms, save certain
suits by assignees of particular choses in action. Section
51 does not withdraw any suit from that grant, but merely
regulates the place of suit, its purpose being to save defendants from inconveniences to which they might b6 sub.
jected if they could be compelled to answer in any distiict,
or wherever found. Like similar state statutes, it accords
to defendants a privilege which they may, and not infrequently do, waive.
1

Acts September 24, 1789, c. 20, § 12, 1 Stlat. 79; February 13,

1801, c. 4, § 13, 2 Stat. 92; February 4, 1815, c. 31, § 8, 3 Stat. 198;
March 3, 1815, c. 94, § 6, 3 Stat. 233; March 3, 1863, c. 81, § 5, 12
Stat. 756; March 2, 1867, c. 196, 14 Stat. 558; March 3, 1875, c. 137,
§ 3, 18 Stat. 471; March 3, 1887, c. 373, 24 Stat. 552; August 13,
1883, c. 866, 25 Stat. 433; Judicial Code, §§ 30, 31, 33.
45646o-23'-----2

OCTOBER TERM,-1922.

658

Opinion of the Court.

260 UMS.

"Coming to the -removal section (28), itis apparent
that the ilaus% ' of which the district courts of the United
States are given original jurisdiction,' refers to the jurisdiction conferred on the District, Courts in general, for it
speaks of them in the plural. That it does not refer to the
venue proyision in -§ 51 is apparent, first, because that
provision does not except or take,any)suit from the general
jurisdiction conferred by § 24; next, because there could
be no purpose in extending to removals the personal privilege; accorded to defendants by- § 51,' since removals are
had only at the instance of. defendants, and, lastly, because the venue on removal,.is specially dealt with and
fixed.by§29."
It will be perceived that the right qf removal under § 28
arises whenever a suit within the general jurisdiction of
the District Courts is begun in "any-" state court,- and
also, that the party to whom the right is given is.
designated in direct and unequivocal terms. Where the suit
arises under the Constitution, or a law or treaty, of the
United States the right is given to '
"the defendant or defendants" without any qualification; and as, to "any
othersuit" it is given to "the defendant or defendants ",
if he or they be" non-residents of that-State." In neither
instance-is the plaintiff's assent essential in any sense to
the exercise of the right. Nor is it admissible for him to
urge that the removal be into the District Court for some
other district, for it is his, act inbringing the suit in a state
court, within the particular district which fixes the venue
on removal.
Applying these views to-the present case, we hold that
it was removable, that it was duly removed into the District Court-for -the-proper district-and that -themotion- to
remand was rightly denied-in shdrt, that. the- District
Court had juridictio!n o proceed to a determination of
the

laause.,

.

The plaintiff's contention to the contrary is predicated
largely on a decision by this Court in Ex parte Wisner,

LEE v. CHESAPEAKE & OHIO .RY.
653

Opinion of the Couirt.

203 U. S. 449, which, it must be conceded, is not in accord
with the views expressed in this opinion. In that case
the facts were like those here and the same statutory provisions were involved. These provisions were then part
of the Act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 433, but,
as respects the matter now under consideration, their
meaning has not ben changed by their inclusion in the.
Judicial Code. In. that case it was ruled that the provision, now embodied in § 51, respecting the venue of
actions originally begun in the 'Circuit (now District),
Courts was strictly jurisdictional, could not be overcome
even by the consent of both parties, and affected removals
accordingly. The ruling proceeded on the theory that
this was a right, if not a necessary, conclusion inasmuch
as the general purpose of Congress in adopting the Act
of 1888 was to contract, the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Courts. The decision was given in 1906 and was ii departure from what had been said of the same provisions
in prior cases, notably Mexican National R. R. Co. v.
Davidson, 157 U. S.201, 208, and Sweeiey v. Carter Oil
Co., 199 U. S. 252, 259. Much that was said in the
opinion was soon disapproved in In re Moore, 209 U. S.
490, where the Court returned to its former rulings respecting the essential ditinction between the provision
defining the general jurisdiction of thb Circuit Courts and
the one relating to the venue of suits originally "begun in
those courts.. But as the decision was not fully and expressly overruled, it has been a source of embarrassment.
and confusion in other courts.' We had occasion to criti'See Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co' v. Western Union.Telegraph
Co., 218 Fed. 91; Doherty v. Smith, 233 Fed. 132; Guaranty Trust
Co v. McCabe, 250 Fed. 699; James v. Amarillo City Light & Water
Co., 251 Fed. 337; Matarazzo v. Hustis, 256 Fed. 882; Boise Commercial Club v. Oregon Short Line R..R. Co., 260 Fed. 769; Sanders
Co., 261 Fed. 697; Earles v. Germain
v. Western Union T iegraph&
Co., 265 Fed. 715.

660

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
'pihonof the Court.

260 U.S.

cise it in General nvestmeiit Co. v, Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Ry. ,Co., supra, and now on further consideration we feel.constrained to prnoune. it essentially
unsound and definitely to overrule it.,
Iji this connection it should be observed that. the opinion injIn;-rq Moore is open to the criticism that -it seemingly assume-, that where neither party is a resident of
the district the -removal, to be -effective; needs -tle plaitiff's assent., We find no support for- such an assumption
in- -the -provisions we -are, considering. _,Under them,, as
before indicated, the exercise o.f the right-,of removal rests
entirely with the defendant'and is in Ito sense dependent
on the wil or 'acquiescence of thepla'intiff. The bpinion
in ! re,Mpore is qualified accordingly.
* We, recognize that one purpose of the Act of 1888 -was
to contract the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts and that
-due regard should be had for thisJA interpreting indefinite or, ambiguous provisions; but we think it affords no
basis for, subtracting .anything from piovisions which -are
definite and. free froi. ;ambiguity,,- A comparison of the
removal provisions ,in the-,Act of' 1888 with those in the
Act -ofIMarch 3, 1875, c, 137, 18. StA: 4707 which it displaced Twill bring out very. clearly ,he changes~i~itende.
The Act of 1875 not; only pernitted the removal of all
suits bqtween citizens. of,. dIfferent States where-the
-amount, in controversy exceeded Aive hundred dollars, but
declared -Khout qualification that -the removal might be
by "either party,"- The Act of 1888 confined theremoval
of such suits, to instances where the amount in contro-versy exceeded two-thousand- dollars; withheldcthe right
of removal from the plaintiff, who always has a choice of
,'forums, and gave the right to the defendant only where
he 'was a nonresident of the"S&a e in which the' suit was
.brought. , Thus,,.while the cpmparison shows that Con. gress intended to "contract inaerially 'the jurisdiction on
removal, it also shows how the contraction was -to be

LEE v. CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY-.
653

Opinion of the Court.

effected. Certainly there is nothing in this which suggests that the plain terms in the Act of 1888,--by which
it declared that any'suit "between- citizens of different
States," brought in any state. court and involving the
requisite amount, "may be removed by the defendant or
defendants" where they are "non-residents of that
State,"-should be taken otherwise than according to
their natural or ordinary signification.
That provision, although much narrower than the provision in the Act of 1875, is obviously broader than the
one in the original Judiciary Act of 1789, which permitted
any suit brought in any state court by a citizen of that
State against -a citizen of another, State, and involving a
stated amount, to be removed by the defendant into the
Circuit Court of th United States for that district. This
early provision remained in force for a long period -and
there can be iio doubt that to return to it now would
materially relieve the overburdened dockets of the Distilct Courts and at the same time maintain the constitUr
tional principle involved; but of course a return can be
effected only through legislative channels.
•Judgment affirmed.

