OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

the residuary estate for thd years 1916 and 1917, under
ยง 2 (b), and collected the same. The trustee b1rought suit
in the United States District Court against the collector
to recover the sums so paid as illegally collected. The
District Court gave judgment for the trustee and this
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit. 266 Fed. 676.
This residuary fund was vested in the Hospital. The
death of the annuitant would completely end the trust.
For this reason, the trustee w s able safely to make the
arrangement by which the Hospital has really received the
benefit of the income subject to the annuity. As the
Hospital is admitted to be a corporation, whose income
when received is exempted from taxation under ยง 11 (a),
we see no reason why the exemption should not be given
effect under the circumstances. To allow the technical
formality of the trust,"which does not prevent, the Hospital from really enjoying the income, would be to defeat
the beneficent purpose of Congress.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals isAffirmed.
CHARLOTTE HARBOR & NORTHERN- RAILWAY
COMPANY v. WELLES ET AL., CONSTITUTING
iHE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF
DE SOTO COUNTY, FLORIDA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.

No. 4.
*

Submitted March 16, 1921; restored to docket for oral argument March 21, 1921; argued October 4, 1922.-Decided
October 16, 1922:

A special improvement tax which was void when assessed, for want
of statutory authority in the officers who undertook the improvement,,may be validated by the legislature consistently with the due
pro:
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 11. Forbes

CHARLOTTE HARBOR RY. v. WELLES.
-8

9

Opinion of the Court.

Pioneer Boat Line v. Board of Commissioners, 258 U. S. 338,
distinguished.
78 Fla. 227, affirmed.

ER oR to a decree of the Supreme Court of Florida
affirming a decree dismissing the bill in a suit to enjoin
collection of a special road improvement tat; etc.
Mr. Kenneth I. McKaV with vhom Mr. James M.
Gifford was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.No appearance for defendants in error.
MR.JusTIcE McYOENA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Bill in equity to declare.illegal the creation of a special
road and bridge district, designated as the Charlotte
Harbor Special Road and Bridge District, in De Soto
County, Florida, and to restrain the defendants in error,
as and constituting the Board of County Commissioners,
from paying out any funds in settlement of any supposed
obligations contracted for work done in pursuance :of the
plan proposed. And further, to enjoin the Commissioners, until the final hearing in this cause, from contracting any further obligations, or paying out any further moneys, on account of,the construction of roads and
bridges under the plan proposed, and for such other and
further relief as equity may require.
Th -groundof the suit and for the relief prayed is; that
the district was constituted of territory 'which overlapped.
territory included in another district theretofore created,
and that, therefore, the Board of Commissioners, to which
the creation of 'the district was committed by the law of
the State, as the law then existed, was without power to
establish the district.
'At the former heain the case was subnitted by Mr. GlIford.
vn behalf of the plaintiff in error.

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

The Board of Commissioners demurred to the bill, and
alleged, as the grounds thereof, the insufficiency of the bill
to authorize equitable relief, and, besides, alleged that
complainant. was estopped by not complaining earlier,
and, by, its delay, had permitted the expenditures of
money by the Board of Commissioners.
The demurrer was sustained and a decree entered dismissing the bill. The decree was affirmed by the Supreme Court- of the State and to its decision this writ of
error is directed.
The opinion of the court considers- and disposes of all
state questions, including the one pertinent to our consideration; that is, that the legislature had power to
create special road and bridge districts which overlapped,
and having that power,/it also had the power "to pass an
Act curing or validating'the action of the county commissioners in creating a special road and bridge district partly
lying in another special road and bridge district."
"This," the' court said, "seems to be the general ruling.
8 Cyc. 1023,, and numerous authorities cited in the footnote."
The court, therefore, sustained the act which is attacked, taking judicial notice of it, it having been passed
pending the suit. C. 8024, Laws of Florida, Acts of 1919.
The court said it was passed for the special purpose of
validating the action of the Commissioners, "and legalizing and validating- the assessments made for the construction of roads and bridges" in the newly created district, -the indebtedness- incurred and the warrants issued
for the payment of the-expenses incident thereto, or which
should thereafter issue; and also validated and legalized
the assessments and levy of taxes in the district.
The court further"said that that doctrine had theretofore been recognized in the State. Cases were adduced,
and (adopting the language of one of them,) the conclu-sion was expressed,, that in consequence of such legisla-

CHARLOTTE HARBOR RY. v. WELLES.
8

11

Opinion of the Court.

tion, the complainant had no standing in court or right
to any relief by reason of the matters complained of in
its bill.,
In a petition for rehearing, plaintiff in error attacked
the reasoning and conclusion of the court, and asserted
against them the inhibition of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States which precludes a State from the taking of property .without due
process of law. The specification of the grounds is that
"the said bill [to quote from it], attempts to legalize a
proceeding -of the County Commissioners of De Soto
County, Florida, who were mere administrative officers
and. which proceeding was void ab initio and without
jurisdiction, and under which proceeding certain taxes
were levied against the property of your petitioner, prior
to the passage of said Act of the Legislature, and therefore the said Act of the Legislature, in so far as it purports
to create a liability on your orator for taxes previously
assessed against your orator under a proceeding of said
administrative officers is void ab initio and. without jurisdiction." The court considered the petition for rehearing and denied it.
In support of the contention of the petition, plaintiff, in
error malies a distinction betwreen a curative statute,
which it is conceded a legislature has the power to pass,
and a creative statute, which, it is the assertion, a legislature has not the power to pass. The argument in support of the distinction is ingenious and attractive, but we
are not disposed to review it in detail.
The general and established proposition is that, what
the legislature could have authorized, it can ratify if it can
authorize at the time of ratification. United States v.
Heinszen & Co., 206 U. S.370; Wagner v. Baltimore, 239
U* S. 207; Stockdale v. Insurance Companies, 20 Wall.
323. And the power is necessary, that government may
not be defeated by omissions or inaccuracies, in the ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
I

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

.

260 U. S.

ercise of functions necessary to its administration. To
this accommodation, Forbes Pioneer Boat Line v. Board
of Commissioners of Everglades Drainage District, 258
U.- S. 338, is not militant. The case concedes the power
6fxratification and declares the principle upon which it is
based-and, necessarily, recognized the subjection and obligaiion of persons and- property to government, and for
government, and its continuation for the purposes of government., And the recognition precludes a misunderstanding of the case and its extension beyond its facts.
It was. concerned with an attempt to impose a charge for
the use of a government canal, for which use, at the time
availed -of, there was no charge-an attempt, therefore, to
turn a gratuity conferred and enjoyed into a legal obligation and subject it to a toll.
Decree affirmed.
KNIGHTS v. JACKSON, TREASURER AND RECEIVER GENERAL.
-

-,

ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 167. Argued October 3, 1922.-Decided October 16, 1922.
The objection that a tax on a special class of persons and property
for a public purpose by which they are not benefited, is a taking
of property without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Ameifdment, does not apply to the general income tax of
Massachusetts (Acts, 1916, c. 269, ยง 2, 5 (b), as amended, 1919,
c.324, ยง 1) and use of funds so derived (Acts, 1919, c. 363) to reimburse cities and towns for increase of educational salaries. P. 14.
237 Mass. 493, affirmed.
ERROR -to a

judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court of

Massachusetts dismissing a petition for mandamus.
Mr. Philip Nichols for plaintiff in error.
A tax on a particular class of property to raise revenue
for a particular publicpurpose is a violation of the Four-

