LIBERTY OIL CO. v. CONDON BANK.
226

235

Syllabus.

the duty of the state court to take the case and proceed
to judgment. "There ,can be no question of judicial supremacy, or of superiority of individual right. The well
established rule, to which we have referred, that where
the action is one in rem that court-whether state or
federal-which first acquires jurisdiction draws to itself
the exclusive authority to control and dispose of-the res,
involves the conclusion that the rights of the litigants
to invoke the jurisdiction of the respective courts are of
equal rank. See Heidritter v. Elizabeth Oil-Cloth Co.,
112 U..S. 294, 305. The rank and authority of the courts
are equal but both courts cannot possess or control the
same thing at the same time, and any attempt to do so
would result in unseemly conflict. The rule, therefore,
that the court first acquiring jurisdiction shall proceed
without interference from a court of the other jurisdiction
is a rule of right and of law based upon necessity, and
where the necessity, actual or potential, does not exist,
the rule does not apply. Since that necessity does exist
in actions in rem and does not exist in actions in personam, involving a question of personal liability only,
the rule applies in the former but does not appljr in the
latter.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is therefore
reversed and the case remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
LIBERTY OIL COMPANY v. CONDON NATIONAL
BANK ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 98.

Argued November.15, 16, 1922.-Decided November 27, 1922.

1. Where a defendant, sued- at law in the District Court for money
had and received, avers by answer and .cross-petition that it is a
stakeholder of the money in question, offers to pay it into court,'

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

and prays that the other claimants be made parties, that the
issue be litigated between them and the plaintiff, and that the defendant be discharged from liability, the proceeding becomes an
equitable one, an interpleader, under Jud. Code, § 274b, as
amended by Act of March 3, 1915, c. 90, 38 Stat. 956. P. 240.
2. While it is not so expressly required, either by Equity Rule 22
or by statute, there is authority, by implication froni Jud. Code,
§ 274b, supra, and § 274a, to transfer a case thus begun at'law and
converted to equity, to the equity side of the court; and such, it
.seems, is the better practice. P. 241.
3. But failure to order such transfer does not deprive the suit of its
equitable character. P. 242.
4. Where 4n equitable defense is interposed in an action at law, the
equitable issue should first be disposed of; and, if an issue at law
remains, it is triable to a jury. P. 242.
5. This preserves the right of jury trial guaranteed by the Seventh
Amendment, being in conformity with the practice ,of the courts of
- law and'chancery in England at the time of the adoption of the
Constitution in the light of whieh the 'Amen dment should be construed. P. 243..6. Sections 274b and 274a of the Judicial Code, aIthough not creating
one form Of civil action; are calculated to permit changes from law
to equity and vice versa, with the least possible delay or formality.
P. 243.
7. Where ar action at law is thus converted into an interpleader, it
is to be treated thenceforth, by trial and appellate courts, as a proceeding in equity; the issue between the claimants need not, under
the Seventh Amendment, be submitted to a jury, but may be tried
by the court; and the judgment is reviewable as in equ ity and not
as at law. P. 244.
.
S. Under Jud. Code, § 269, as amended February 26, 1919, c. 48, 40
Stat. 1181, appellate courts-are-to give judgment after examination
of the record without regard to technical errors, defects, or exceptions, not affecting substantial rights. P. 245.
9. Under Jud. Code, § 274b, supra, whether review is sought by writ
of error or appeal, the appellate court has full power to render such
judgment upon the record as law and justice require. P. 245.
10. Where certiorari was issued to the Circuit Court of Appeals td
'settle- an important question of practice, held, that this Court
though it had the power, would not also decide the merits but would
remand the case for that purpose to the court below. P. 245.
271 Fed. 928, reversed.

LIBERTY OIL CO. v. CONDON BANK.
235

237

Statement of the Case.

This suit was begun as an action at law in the District
Court of Kansas by the Liberty Oil Company,'a corporation organized under the laws of Virginia, and a citizen
of that State, against the Condon.National Bank, a corporation organized under the banking laws of the United
States and resident and doing business in Kansas. Plaintiff by its petition averred that it had made a contract
with the Atlas Petroleum Company of Oklahoma, C. M.
Ball, Isadore Litman, P. G. Keith and J. H. Keith, residents of Kansas, by which it agreed to purchase and they
agreed to sell 160 acres more or less of oil lands in Butler
County, Kansas, for $1,150j000. By the contract, the
purchaser. was required to deposit $100,000 with the Liberty National Bank simultaneously with a deposit of the
contract, and this sum, together with the assignments,
transfers and conveyances under the contract, was to be
held by the bank and by it to be delivered in accordance
with the conditions of the contract. The main conditions,
and the only ones here material, were that the vendors
should furnish an abstract of the title to the property contracted to be sold showing a good and marketable title in
them, that the vendee should have seven days in which
to examine the abstract, and that if its examination should
show a good and marketable title, the vendee should pay
the bank $1,050,000, the remainder of the purchase money,
and the bank should deliver the deeds of assignments and
transfers to the vendee and the vendor should deliver
possession of the land. If the examination showed a good
and marketable title and the vendee should refuse to pay
the money then due from it, the $100,000 was to be delivered to the vendors as liquidated damages and the contract
was to become null and void. In the event that the examination should disclose that the title was not good and
marketable, the vendee was to notify the vendors and they
were to have thirty days in which to perfect the title and
should they neglect in that time to do' s, the $100,000 on

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case..

260 U. S.

deposit was to be returned to the vendee and the contract
was to become null and void.'
The petition averred that the money and the contract
were deposited in the defendant bank, that the abstract
of title was submitted, that an examination of the abstract
submitted showed that the title of the vendors was not
good and marketable -in that in the chain of title the
venqors claimed under the deed of an assignee for the
benefit of creditors filed in a Colorado' court and takiig
effect by the laws of that State but never authorized or
confirmed by a court of competent jurisdiction under the
laws of Kansas as required by the law of the latter State,
that-this defect was not remedied by the vendors within
the' time required'by the contract, and 6n July 11, 1918,
the plaintiff duly notified the defendant bank of this and
demanded payment of the money deposited, that 'th6 defendant refused and appropriated the 'sum to its own use
to the'dgmage of the plaintiff, in the sum of $100,000 and
interest at -six per cent. from the date of the demand and
refusal.
The defendant bank. answered admitting all the facts
averred in the petition exceptthose as to the character of
the title shown by the abstract, and alleged that the
vendors in the contract of sale had also demanded that the
deposit of $100,000 be paid to them on the grourkd that the
vendee had refused without right to accept a good and
marketable title tothe land sold, that the defendant bank
had no interest in the deposit and offered to pay the sum
into court or to such person as the court should order.
The defendant asked that -the vendors be made parties
and required to set up their claim to the deposit, that the
court make proper order as to the disposition of the
money, and that the defendant upon compliance with the
order be discharged from all liability in connection therewith. The court granted the prayer of the answer and
"ordered, adjudged and decreed" that vendors be made

LIBERTY OIL CO. v. CONDON BANK.
235

239

Statement of the Case.

parties, and set up their claim within twenty days. The
vendors waived summons and filed an answer and cross
petition in which they averred that the petition of the
plaintiff did not state a cause of action, and denied as
much of the petition as averred that there were defects in
the abstract of title which prevented it from being good
and marketable. By the cross petition they asked for the
payment of the $100,000 deposit and also a judgment for
$1,050,000 as the purchase price for the land, title to
which they had tendered, and for general relief. This cross
petition the plaintiff answered making the same issue as
that in-the petition and answer. A jury was waived in
writing. A bill of exceptions was taken embodying all
the evidence, which was signed by the judge, and the same
evidence was included in a transcript also certified to by
the judge.
The District Court on the evidence found generally for
the vendors, and from its opinion it appeared that it
found the title good and marketable, and that upon plaintiff's refusal to accept the same the vendors became entitled to the $100,000 as liquidated damages. Accordingly it was "considered, ordered and adjudged" that the
vendors, interveners, recover $10,750.00 as interest on the
$100,000 from June 30, 1918, that the Condon Bank, defendafit, be discharged from further liability, and that
the interveners have judgment for the $100,000 then in
the registry of the court. There is nothing in the record
to show that the defendant bank was dismissed until this
final judgment, although, under some authority not made
a matter of record, it had turned- the money into the
registry of the court.
An appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals
and a supersedeas bond given. The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the action was a suit at law, that under
§ 4 of the Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 727,
to amend the Judicial Code, it had the power and it was

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

its duty to consider the appeal taken' as a writ of error
and that as the bill of exceptions showed no special findings of fact in a bause in which a jury had been waived
but only a general finding for the interveners, it was not
within the power -of the court in, a law case to, consider
thesufficiency of the evidence to sustain the finding. It
therefore affirmed the judgment of the District Court. A
certiorari brings the case here for conisideration.
Mr. F. W.. Lehmann, with whom Mr. Harry E. Karr
and Mr. Charles G. Yankey were on the brief, for peti-

tioner.
Mr. John J. Jones, with whom Mr. J. H. Keith and Mr.
Hugo T. Wedell were on the brief, for respondents.
-MR. CHIEF JusTIcE TAr-T, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the Court.

We differ with the Circuit Court of Appeals in its
holding that, as brbught'in review before it, this, cause
was an abtion at law. We think 'the cause was then
equitable and the proper review was by appeal. The case
began 'as an action at law for money had and received.
When the defendant bank' claimed to be only a stakeholder 'of the deposit, disclaimed interest therein and
offered 'to pay it -int6' court, -'and asked that the other
claimants of the fund be made parties, its answer and
cross petition became an equitable defense and a prayer
for affirmative equitable relief in the nature of a bill for
interpleader. Section 274b of the Judicial 'Code as
amended by Act of March 3, 1915,' c. 90, 38 Stat. 956,
provides:
"That in all actions at law ecuitable defenses may be
interposed by 'answer, plea, or replication without the
necessity of filing a bill on the equity side of the court.
The defendant shall have the same rights in such case
as if he had filed a bill embodying the defense of seeking
the relief prayed for in such answer or plea. Equitable

LIBERTY OIL CO. v. CONDON BANK.
235

241

Opinion of the Court.

reliefrespecting the subject matter of the suit may thus
be obtained by answer, or plea. In case affirmative relief
is prayed in such answer or plea, the plaintiff shall
file a replication. Review of the judgment or decree
entered in such case shall be regulated by rule of court.
Whether such review be sought by writ of error or by
appeal the appellate court shall have full power to render
such judgment upon the records as law and justice shall
require."
This section applies to the case before us. The proceeding was changed by defendant's answer and cross petition
from one at law to one in equity, with all the consequences flowing therefrom. The better practice would
perhaps have been, on the defendant's filing its answer
and cross petition, to order .the cause transferred to the
equity side of the court. Under Equity Rule No. 22,
a suit in equity which should have been brought at law
must be transferred to the law side of the court. There is
no corresponding provision in rule or statute which expressly directs this to be done when the action begun at
law should have been by a bill on the equity side, but
we think the power of the trial court to order a transfer
in a case like this is imaplied from the broad language of
§ 274b, above quoted, by which the defendant who files
an equitable defense is to be given the same rights as if
he had set them up in a bill in equity, and from § 274a
of the Judicial Code, quoted below; in which the court is
:directed, when a suit at law should have been brought
in equity, to order amendments io -the pleadings necessary to conform them to the proper practice. Webb v.
Southern Ry. Co., 235 Fed. 578, 593, 594. We are aware
that a different conclusion has been reached by the Cir-,
cuit Court of Appeals of the Fourth Circuit in Waldo
v. Wilson, 231 Fed. 654, but for the reasons stated and
after a full examnination of that case, we think the conclusion of that court upon this point was too narrow.
45646'23_16

242

OCTOBER TERM, -1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

-Nor, by the failure to order the transfer in this case, did
the'sfiit lose the equitable character it had taken on by
the answer and cross petition of the defendant. The
situation thus produced was quite-like that under state
civil codes of procedure in which there is but one form'of
civil action, the formal distinction between proceedings in
law and equity is abolished and remedies at law and in
equity are available to the parties in the same court and
the same cause., Neither legal nor equitable remedies are
abolished under such' codes. "What was an action at law
before the code, is still an action founded on legal principles; and what was a bill in equity before the code, is
still a civil action founded on principles of equity."
Sutherland on Code 'Pleading, Practice and Formsi § 87--DeWitt v. Hays, 2 Cal- 463; Smith v. Rowe, 4 Cal. 6;
Howard v. Tiffany, 3 Sandf. 695.
'Section 274b is an important step toward a consolidation of the federal courts of law and equity and the questions presented in this union are to be solved much as
they have been under the state codes. United States v.
Richardson, 223 Fed. 1010, 1013. The most important
limitation upon a federal union of the two kinds of remedies in one form of action is the requirement of the Constitution in the Seventh Amendment that "In suits at
common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed
twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise reexamined in ainy courtof the United States, than accord-,
ing to the rules of the common law."
.Where an equitable defense is interposed to a suit at
law, the equitable issue raised should first be disposed of
as in a court of equity, and then if an issue at law remains,
it is triable to a jury. Massie v. Stradford, 17 Oh. St. 596_
Dodsworth v. Hopple, 33 Oh. St. 16, 18; Taylor v. Standard Brick Co., 66 Oh. St. 360, 366; Sutherland, Code P1.
and Pr.§ 1157. The equitable defense makes the issue

LIBERTY OIL CO. v. CONDON BANK.
235

243

Opinion of the Court.

equitable and it is to be tried to the judge as a chancellor.
The right of trial by jury is preserved exactly as it was at
common law. The same order is preserved as under the
system of separate courts. If a defendant at law had an
equitable defense, he resorted to a bill in equity to enjoin
the suit at law until he could make his equitable defense
effective by a hearing before the chancellor. The hearing
on that bill was before the chancellor and not before a
jury, and.if the prayer of-the bill was granted, the injunction against the suit at law was made perpetual and
no jury trial ensued. If the injunction was denied, the
suit at law proceeded to verdict and judgment. This was
the practice in the Courts of Law and Chancery in England when our Constitution and the Seventh Amendment
were adopted, and it is in the light of such practice that
the Seventh Amendment is to be constriled.
Congress, we think, was looking toward such a union of
law and equity actions in the enactihent of § 274b, quoted
above, and of § 274a, which, referring to courts of the
United States, provides:
"That in case any of said courts shall find that a suit at
law should have been brought in equity or a suit in equity
.should ha-Ve been brought at law, the court shall order any
amendments to the pleadings which may be necessary
to "ponform them to the proper practice. Any party to
the suit shall have the right, at any stage -of the cause,
to amend his plealings so as to obviate the objection that
his suit was not brought on the right kide of the court.
The cause shall proceed and be determined upon such
amended pleadings. All testimony taken before subh
amendment, if preserved, shall stand as testimony in the
cause with like effect as if the pleadings had been originally in the amended form."
To be sure, these sections do not create one form of civil
action as do the codes of procedure in the States, but they

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

xanifest a purpose on the part of Congress to change
from a suit at law to one in equity and the reverse with as
little delay aild as little insistence -on form as possible,
and are long steps toward code practice.
Coming now to apply those two sections thus construed
to the case before us, we find that by defendant's answer
and the court's order it became a bill of interpleader in
equity. Thereafter the proceedings should have been so
treated, both in the trial and appellate courts. The chancellor having sustained a bill of interpleader, disposed of
the controversy between.the claimants by directing.any
-method
of trial which, would best and expeditiously accomplish justice in the particular case. State Insurance
.Co. v. Gennett,2 Tenn. Ch. 100, 101; Rowe v. Hoagland's
Administrators, 7 N. J. Eq. 131; Condict's Executors v.
'King, 13 N. J. Eq. 375, 383; City Bank v. Bangs, 2 Paige,
Ch. R. 570-,573; Gibson v. Goldthwaite, 7 Ala. 281, 290;
Angell v. Hadden, 16 Vesey, 202; Kirtland v. Moore, 40
N. J, Eq. 106, 108; 2 Daniel's Ch. Practice, (6th Amer.
'ed.) 1568, 1569. This well established rule takes the issue
here to be tried out of that class of issues in which there
must have been a jury trial under the Seventh Amendment. Where it was one which the .chancellor could
readily dispose of in one proceeding, it was in the interest
of economy, expedition and justice that he should do so.
This is in accord with the general rule in equity embodied
in Equity Rule 23 that jurisdiction once assumed should
be maintained to end the litigation. Greene v. Louisville
& InterurbanR. R. Co., 244 U. S. 499, 520; McGowan v.
Parish,237U. S. 285, 296; Camp v. Boyd, 229 U. S. 530,
551, 552. It was, therefore, error by the Circuit Court of Appeals
to proceed as if it were reviewing a judgment in a suit
at law upon a bill of exceptions. It is true that the
record- contained a bill of exceptions, but there was-also
a transcript of the same evidence certified as required

HEISLER v. THOMAS COLLIERY CO.
235

Syllabus.

in.
appeals in equity. The plaintiff below was evidently
not certain of the proper practice and prepared for either
writ of error or appeal. Under § 269 of the Judicial Code,
as amended by the Act of February 26, 1919, c. 48, 40
Stat. 1181, appellate courts are enjoined to give judgment
after an- examination of the record without regard to
technical errors, defects or exceptions which do not affect
the substantial rights of the parties; and under § 274b,
whether the review is sought by writ of. error or appeal,
the appellate court is given full power to render such
judgment upon the record as law and justice shall require.
It follows that the court should have considered the issue
of law and fact upon which the decree of the District
Court depended, that is, whether there was a good and
marketable title.
On this review by certiorari, we could consider and
decide the. issue which the Circuit Court of Appeals erroneously refused to consider. On such an issue alone,
however, we would not have granted the writ, because
except for the important question of practice the case was
not of sufficient public interest to .justify it. We think
it better, therefore, to reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals and to -remand the case to that
court for consideration and decision of the -issues *of fact
and law in this case as on an appeal in equity.
Reversed.
HEISLER v. THOMAS COiLIERY COMPANY
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLvANIA.

No. 541. Argued November 14, 15, 1922.-Decided November- 27,
1922.
1. In view of the differences: between anthracite and bituminous coals
in properties and uses, a Pdnnsylvania tax is not unreasonable

