SOUTHERN PAC. CO. v. OLYMPIAN CO.
Counsel for Petitioners.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY ET AL. v. OLYMPIAN DREDGING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 78. Argued October 19, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. By the Act of September 19, 1890, c. 907, 26 Stat. 453, Congress
assumed jurisdiction of the subject of obstructions to navigation and
committed to the Secretary of War all necessary administrative
power over such obstructions. P. 208.
2. Under § 7 of that act, a new bridge ner a navigable stream cannot
lawfully be constructed by a railroad company before the location and plans have been approved by the Secretary of War;_
authority from the state legislature is not enough. P. 208.
3. The power of the Secretary to approve or disapprove includes the
power to condition an approval. P. 208.
4. Where a railroad company, operating a lawful bridge, obtained the
Secretary's approval for a new one nearby, upon the condition
that it remove the old one and remove the piers from the riverbed to a specified depth below lowest water level as shown by an
existing and specified gauge, and fully complied with the condition,
leaving the channel unobstructed, held, that the condition was an
authoritative determination of what was reasonably necessary to
insure free and safe navigation, upon which the company was
entitled to rely; and that where, many years later, the Government,
by dredging, lowered the bed 'and surface of the river so that
stumps 'of the piles that had constituted the old piers protruded
above the new bed, forming an obstruction which damaged a vessel, the Railroad Company was not liable. P. 209.
270 Fed. 384, reversed.

to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which reversed a decree of the District Court dismissing
a libel in admiralty for damages due to collision of the
present res'ondent's vessel with an obstruction in a navigable channel
CERTIORARI

Mr. Williot R. Harr, with whom Mr. William F.
I1'errin,'Mr. R-. J. Foulds and Mr.' Geo. K. Ford were or
the brief, for petitioners.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

Mr. Thomas E. Haven, with whom Mr. FrankHall, Mr.
James S. Spilman, Mr. FredG. Athearn, Mr. A. E. Chandler and Mr. Milton T. Farmer were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In 1895 the Califorpia Pacific Railroad Company, one
of the petitioners, was authorized by the Legislature of
the State of California to construct, And did construct, a
railroad bridge across the Sacramento River. For some
years prior to that time this company had owned and
both petitioners had-used another bridge situated in the
near vicinity. Upon the construction of the new bridge
in 1895 the old bridge was abafidoned.and demolished.
The plans and location of the new bridge, so authorized
by the, legislature, received the formal approval of the
Secretary of War, in conformity with § 7 of the Act of
September 19, 1890,. c. 907, 26 Stat. 454, as amended by
§ 3 of. the Act of Congress of July 13, 1892, c. 158, 27
Stat. 110, subject to the following condition:
"That said Railway Company, within 90 days after the
completion of the' new bridge shall remove every portion
of the present existing bridge, the old piers to be removed
from the bed of the river to a. depth of seven (7) feet
below the level of the lowest low water, being a reading
of 7.5 feet on the K Street gauge, Sacramento, California."
The new bridge was finished in 1895 and the destruction
of the old bridge was completed early in the following
year. The condition imposed by the Secretary of War
was fully complied with. Indeed it appears that the piles
constituting the piers of the old bridge were cut down
three or four feet lower than was required, to a level with
or below the then existing bed of the river.
Subsequent to the removal of the piles the Government
of the United States constructed a wing dam above and

SOUTHERN PAC. CO. v. OLYMIPIAN.CO.
205

207

Opinion of the Court.

carried on dredging operations immediately below the
bridge, so that the bed of the river was gradually lowered
until, in 1918, when the injury in question occurred, 'the
surface of the water was about seven feet lowef than at
the time the piles were destroyed, although the depth of
the water remained approximately the same, with the
result that the old stumps protruded several feet above
the then existing bed of the river.
There is nothing to indicate that either of the petitioners had actual knowledge of the changed conditions
which brought about the protrusion of the old piles above
the bed of the river, or any knowledge that these iles
were a menace to navigation.
On July 13, 1918, the dredger "Thor," owned by
respondent, on her way . down the river, drifting with
the current, struck on one or more protruding stumps, the
upper portion of which had been destroyed, with the
result that her hull was pierced and she sank.
The respondent filed a libel in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of California against petitioners, asking damages for collision and, after hearing,
that court dismissed the libel. The Circuit Court of
Appeals, reversing the District Court, held that petitioners were liable for this injury, notwithstanding their full
compliance with the condition imposed by the Secretary
of War, upon the ground that it was reasonably probable
in 1895 that the channel of the river would shift and the
conditions ensue which brought about the lowering of the
river bed, and that, consequently, it was their duty to
anticipate and to guard against the effect of these conditions upon the piles and their failure to do so was actionable negligence.
We are unable to- agree with this conclusion. By the
Act of September 19, 1890, 26 Stat. 453 454, Congress
inaugurated a new policy of general, direct control over
the naviaable waters of the United States. The act pro-

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

vided for the alteration of existing. bridges which interfered- with free navigation (§§ 4 and 5); prohibited the
dumping of waste material in such waters so as to obstruct
navigatibi, (§ 6); made it- unlawful to build wharves,
piers and other structures named, without the permission
of the Secretary of War, in such manner as to obstruct or
impair navigation; or to commence the construction of
any bridge over any such waters under any act of a state
legislature until the location and plans therefor had been
submitted to and approved by the Secretary of War; or to
excavate or fill, or in any manner, to alter or modify the
course, location, condition or' capacity of the channel of
said navigable water of the United States, unless approved and authorized by the Secretary of War (§ 7).
The amendment of 1892 did not alter § 7 in any respect
material to this inquiry....
-_'By 'this legislation Congress assumed jurisdiction of
the. subject of obstructions to navigation and committed
to, the Secretary of War administrative power in so far
as administration was necessary. Under § 7, it was not
enough for the California Pacific Railroad Company to
secure the authority of the California legislature to build
the new bridge; it was -necessary in addition to have the
location and, plans approved by the Secretary of War
before the bridge could be lawfully constructed. That
the Secretary of War was authorized to impose the condition heretofore quoted does not admit of doubt. The
power to approve implies the power to disapprove and
the power to disapprove necessarily includes the lesser
power to condition an approval. In the light of this
general assumption by Congress of control over the subject and of the large powers delegated to the Secretary,
the condition imposed by that officer cannot be consid*ered otherwise than as an authoritative determination of
what was reasonably necessary to be done to .insure free
and safe navigation so far as the obstruction in question
was concerned.

SOUTHERN PAC. CO. v. OLYMPIAN CO.
205

209

Opinion of the Court.

To hold, as did the Circuit Court of Appeals, that this
determination afforded no protection to petitioners, but
that they relied upon it only at their peril, we think, is a
conclusion without warrant. Having complied with the
direction of the Secretary, and having no further interest
in anything at that point on the river, it seems altogether
unreasonable to hold them to a n indefinite and spechlative
responsibility for future changed conditions. The piles
had been removed early in 1896, with an over-generous
observance of the directions of the Secretary. As matters
then stood, the removal of the piles, so far as they constituted any obstruction or menace to navigation was complete; that they afterwards became an obstruction was
due to changes of a most radical character in the channel
of the river brought about, in the main, by the dredging
operations of the Government itself. Was the petitioner
guilty of negligence in not anticipating the effect of these
changes, which did not culminate in the conditions complained of until twenty-two years later? The question
must be answered in the negative.
The order of the Secretary of War, directing the removal of the old piles from the bed of the river to the
depth there specified, was a valid order, since it was the
condition upon which his approval of the location and
plans of the new bridge was made. The new bridge was
in the near vicinity of the old bridge, for which it was, in
fact, a substitute. The effect which the continued maintenance of the latter after the completion of the former
might have had upon the navigability of the river at that
point is not disclosed. The Secretary of War evidently
concluded that the situation was such as to require the
removal of the old bridge and piles, but not such as to
require the removal of the latter beyond the depth fixed
by his order. Whether the limitation in this respect was
grounded alone upon what the Secretary considered would
be sufficient to secure the safety of navigation, or upon the
45646°-23-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

fact that to leave the stumps in the bed of the river would
be of some positive service in stabilizing the shifting bed
of the stream, or useful in some other way, does not appear. It was not for the petitioners, however, to question
either his reasons or his conclusions. They were justified
in proceeding upon the assumption that what the Secretary, in the exercise of his lawful powers, declared to be
no obstruction-to navigation was in fact no obstruction.
The language which this Court employed in Monongahela
Bridge Co. v. United States, 216 U. S. 177, 195, is pertinent:
Congress intended by its legislation to give the
same force and effect to the decision of the Secretary of
War that-would have been accorded to direct action by it
on the subject. It is for Congress, under the Constitution, to regulate the right of navigation by all appropriate
means, to declare what is necessary to be done in order to
free navigation from obstruction, and to prescribe the
way in which the question of obstruction shall be determined. Its action in the premises cannot be revised or
ignored by the courts or by juries, except that when it
provides for an investigation of the facts, upon notice
and after hearing, before final action is taken, tie courts
can see to it that Executive officers conform their action
to the mode prescribed-by Congress."
See also Union Bridge Co. v. United States,'204 U. S.
364, 385; The -Douglas,7 Prob. Div. [1882], 157; Frost v.
Washington County R. R. Co., 96 Me. 76; Maine Water
Co. v. Knickerbocker Steam Towage Co., 99 Me. 473;
The Plymouth, 225 Fed. 483.
Even if we leave out of consideration altogether the
order of the Secretary of War, it is still difficult to see
upon what just ground petitioners could be held liable.
The changes which occurred in the bed of the river
were not due to, natural causes, whose effect could reasonably have been anticipated, but were due to the arti-

SOUTHERN PAC. CO. v. OLYMPIAN CO.
205

Opinion of the Court.

ficial operations of the Government the effect of which
appeared only after the lapse of a long period of years.
We agree with what was said by the District Court, in
deciding the instant case, upon that subject:
"While the Railroad Company was perhaps required
to take notice of ordinary changes in the course or channel
of the stream from natural causes and provide against
any injury that might result from such changes, it could
not, in my opinion, be required to take notice of such
radical changes as occurred here by the acts of the Government over which it had no control and which it had
no reason to anticipate or provide against."
The opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals is that
the question of liability was not affected by the fact that
the conditions imposed by the Secretary of War were complied with, holding that these conditions or restrictions
did not define the measure of liability to third persons
rightfully navigating the river, and Maxon v. Chicago &
Northwestern Ry. Co., 122 Fed. 555, is relied upon in
support of this view. That was a case, however, where
a railroad company had constructed a bridge in conformity
with the license granted by the War Department. The
obstruction which caused the injury complained of consisted of stone and other material thrown into the river
by the railroad company at the foot of and about one of
the bridge abutments, and extending out into the channel;
but it was no part of the bridge structure and was entirely
unauthorized. The court held that the tug which collided
with the obstruction had a right to the use of the channel
to its full width and having no knowledge or warning of
the presence of the obstruction was entitled to recover
for the resulting injury. The stone and other material
were unlawfully thrown into the stream and constituted
from the beginnifig an unlawful obstruction. In the
instant case the piles forming part of the old bridge were
lawfully placed and lawfully maintained until they were

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
260 U. S.

Syllabus.

ordered removed by the Secretary of War. His order for
their removal was complied with, and the channel was
left by petitioners wholly unobstructed, in law and in
fact. The obstruction did not develop until years afterward and was due to causes which they were not bound
to anticipate and provide against and for which they were'
in no degree responsible.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is therefore
reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.
_

_

_Reversed.

CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH
COMPANY v. LOUISIANA PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 650. Argued on retuin to rule to show cause why supersedeas
and injunction should not be set aside and injunction
dissolved, November 13, 1922.-Decided November 20,
1922.
1. Upon appeal from an order merely refusing a preliminary injunction, under Jud. Code, § 266, there is nothing upon Ahich a
supersedeas may operate. P. 215.
2. UnderJud. Code, § 266, a single judge in allowing an appeal from
an order of the District Court, constituted of three judges, denying a preliminary injunction, is without power to grant a continuance of a temporary restraining order pending the appeal, and his
order to that effect is void. P. 216.
3. Equity Rule 74, which 'authorizes a justice or judge who took
part in a decision granting or dissolving an injunction to suspend,
modify, or restore the injunction pending appeal, does not apply to
an appeal from an order refusing a. preliminary injunction under
Jud. Code, § 266. P. 217.
4. Where an interlocutory injunction has been refused in a case
goyerned by Jud. Code, § 266, an application for injunction pending appeal must be presented to the three judges, and, except in

