568

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSIONv. CURTIS PUBLISHING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 86. Argued November 17, 1922.-Decided January 8, 1923.
1. In a proceeding taken by the Federal Trade Commission, under
the Federal Trade Commission Act. and the Clayton Act, the
ultimate' determination of what constitutes unfair competition
under the former, is for the court, upon review of the Commission's order; and the same rule applies where the charge is that
sales or agreements substantially. lessen competition or tend to
create monopoly, in violation of the Clayton Act. P. 579.
2. Upon such a review the Commission's findings of fact are con'clusive, if supported by evidence; but the court may examine the
whole retord -and ascertain for itself Whether there are 'material
facts not reported by the Commission; and if there be substantial evidence relating to such facts from which different conclusions reasonably may be drawn, and the interests of justice clearly
require that the controversy be decided without further delay, the
cou-t has full power under the statute to do so without referring
the matter to the Commission for additional findings. P. 580.
3. A'-contract 'between a publisher and a distributer, as agent,
whereby the' former undertakes to consign its publications to the
latter retaining title until they are sold, and the latter agrees: to
supply -the demand of distributers: and, dealers at specified prices;,
to promote sales; not to anticipate the dates fixed for publication,
or dispose of copies in teiritory of other agents or act as agent for,
or supply at wholesale rates, periodicals of other publishers, or
furnish names and ,addresses of customers to other publishers or
agents, without the former's consent; and to train boys as disIributers, subject to the principal's -directions, and to return unsold
copies, their cover pages or headings,--is not, without more, a
contract of sale upon condition within the Clayton Act, but is a
contract of agency. P. 581.
4. Engagement by a publisher of numerous agents for the distribution of its magazines exclusively, when done in the orderly development of the business and without unlawful motive, held not an
unfair method'of competition, within the Federal Trade Commis-

FED. TRADE COMM. v. CURTIS CO.
568

Argument for Petitioner.

sion Act, although many of the agents, when so engaged, were
general distributers of newspapers and magazines. P. 582.
270 Fed. 881, affirmed.

CERTIORAEi to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which set aside an order entered against the respondent
by the Federal Trade Commission.

Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. W. H.
Fuller and Mr. Adrien F. Busick were on the briefs, for
petitioner.
It was the manifest purpose of Congress to make the
Commission the judge of the weight of the evidence and
*to make its findings conclusive upon the court if there
was any legal evidence in the record to support them.
Wholesale Grocers Assn. v. Federal Trade Commission,
277 Fed. 657; National Harness Manufacturers' Assn,. v.
Federal Trade Commission, 261 Fed. 170.
It has been generally held by this Court that where a
statute makes the findings of fact by an administrative
body conclusive if supported by evidence, the administrative body is the judge of the weight and effect of the evidence. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88. The right asserted
by the court below to make additional findings deprives
the Commission of its statutory authority to pass upon
the weight and effect of the evidence. Manifestly, the
court and the Commission may differ on these points, and
the finding by the court, therefore, be contrary to a finding by the Commission. The court should have remanded
the case to the Commission with instructions to fiid the
additional facts. This Court has consistently held this
to be the proper practice in cases arisng inder the Coininerce Act. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.v. Behlmner,
175 U. S.648; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Clyde
S. S. Co., 181 U. S. 29; Interstate Commerce Commi.ssion°
v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R.1R. Co., 186 IT. S. 320.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Petitioner.

260 U. S.

The findings made by the court are contrary to those
made by the Commission, and in part contrary to the
evidence.
Both contracts of the respondent company are contracts
of sale.
Whether the second contract is one of agency or of sale
must be deternined from the surrounding circumstances.
Merely styling it an agency contract and the parties principal and agent is not controlling. Dr.Miles Medical Co.
v. Park & Sons Co., 164 Fed. 803; Poirier Mfg. Co. v.
-Kitts, 18 N. Dak. 556; American Seeding Machine
Co: v. Stearns, 109-App. Div. 192; Henry Bill Pub. Co.
v. Durgin, 101 Mich.-458. Nor will the mere inclusion"
in the contract of - clause reserving the title in the seller
make the coniract one of agency or consignment. A contract containing such a reservation may, nevertheless, be
one of absolute or-of conditional sale. Re Carpenter, 125
Fed. 831; Sutton v. Baker, 91 Minn. 12; PoirierMfg. Co.
v. Kitts, 18 N. Dak. 556; Arbuckle Bros' v. Gates, 95
Va.802.
If the transaction constitutes a conditional sale, it is
within the terms of § 3 of the Clayton Act, which covers
"a sale or contract -for sale" on condition that the purchaser shall not deal in the goods of a competitor or competitors of the seller. There is ample authority to hold
that there is here at least a conditional sale, title to pass
to the dealers upon resale of the publications. Chickering v. Bastress, 130 Ill. 206; GraniteRoofing Co. v. Casler,
82 Mich. 466; Blow v. Spear, 43 Mo. 496; Lemp v. Ryus,
7 Col. App. 37; House v. Beak, 141 Ill. 290; In re Morris,
156 Fed. 597; Re Carpenter, 125 Fed. 831; Re Wells, 140
Fed. 752; Re Rose; 206 Fed. 991.
A particular feature of the contract which unmistakably
stamps it as a contract of sale is found in a clause in Which
the dealer. guarantees to sell a specified number of the respondent's'magazines. Under another he is required to

FED. TRADE COMM. v. CURTIS CO.
568

571

Argument for Petitioner.

deposit moneywith the respondent, which is held by the
latter to insure the faithful performance by the dealer of
his obligations and guarantees. The only guarantee which
the dealer makes is to sell a specified number of the respondent's publications. If he fails his deposit is liable.
for the price of those unsold. See Straus v. Victor Talking Machine Co., 243 U. S. 490, 498.
The real character of the transaction as a sale is unmistakably stamped by the circumstances under which the
conitracts were made. The first contracts wdre clearly
contracts of sale. When the validity of these contracts
was questioned and when the District Court practically
held them to be contracts of sale, the respondent sought,
by merely changing the form of the contract, to disguise
its purpose and to retain all the benefits of the old contract, including the exclusion of real competitors from the
wholesale channels of distribution, and yet by such change
of form to escape the prohibitions of the Clayton Act.
The real relation of the parties remains the same under
the -new contract. The character of the business of the
dealers is still that of independent traders, buying and
selling for their own account-not as commission men or
factors. As siich independent dealers they still constitute,
in all instances, a valuable channel of distribution for publishers of newspapers ard magazines; in many instances
they are the only, and in others the most important,
wholesale outlet for such publishers. Park v. Hartman,
153 Fed. 24.
. Respondent's sales are made upon the condition that
the dealer shall not deal in the publications of competitors.The effect of the respondent's sales and contracts for
sale is to substantially lessen competition. Standard
Fashion Co. v. Magrane-Houston Co., 258 U. S. 346;
United States v. United Shoe Machinery Co., 264 Fed.
138, 168; United States v. Keystone Watch Case Co., 218
Fed. 502.

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Petitioner.

260"U. S.

Respondent's contracts constitute an unfair method of
competition The effect of the contracts to substantially
lessen competition is identical, whether in form they be
contracts of agency or contracts of hale. ' This Court has
held in Federal Trade Commission v. Gratz, 253 U. S.
421, and more recently in.Federal Trade Commission v.
Beech-Nut Packing Co.; 257 U. S. 441, that the prohibition against the use of unfair-methods of competition
extends to all practices contrary to public policy "because
of their dangerous tendency unduly to hinder competition or create a monopoly."
In these two decisions, and in Federal Trade Commission v. Winsted Hosiery Co., 258 U. S. 483, this Court
holds that the language of the Trade Commission Act is
sufficiently inclusive to reach all acts- or practices which
have the prohibited effect of unduly hindering or suppressing competition.
Where the results prohibited by § 3 are accomplished
through contracts which are in form contracts of agency,
but where the surrounding facts disclose that the so-called
agents are in fact wholesale independent traders, and the
real purpose of the contracts is to exclude competitors
from the usual channels of distribution, this Court will
apply the provisions of the Trade Commission Act and
declare the use of the contracts to be an unfair method of
competition. Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park & Sons Co.,
164 Fed. 803.
While under the decisions of this Court the prohibition
against unfair methods of competition may include a case
of unfair trading at common law, since such methods of
competition are contrary to good morals because characterized by fraud, it also includes those practices which
are in no wise- characterized by fraud but which have a
dangerous tendency unduly to hind6r competition.
Mr. John G. Milburn, with whom Mr. Joseph TV. Welsh,
.'Mr. John G. Milburn, Jr., and. Mr. Ralph B. Evans were
on the brief, for respondent.

FED. TRADE COMM. v. CURTIS CO.
568

573

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICD MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The court below entered a decree setting aside an order
of the Trade Commission, dated July 21, 1919, which directed respondent Publishing Company to cease and desist from entering into or enforcing agreements prohibiting wholesalers from selling or distributing the magazines or newspapers of other publishers. 270 Fed. 881.
And the cause is here by certiorari.
The Commission issued an -original complaint July 5,
1917, based mainly on a restrictive clause in existing contracts with so-called district agents. Thereafter, respondent changed its agreement. An amended complaint followed, which amplified the original allegations and attacked the second contract and consequent conditions.
The first section of the amended complaint declares
there is reason to believe that respondent has been and
is using unfair methods of competition contrary to § 5,
Act of Congresi approved September 26, 1914, c. 311, 38
Stat. 717,1 and specifically charges: That respondent, a
'See. 5. That unfair methods of competition in commerce are
hereby declared'unlawful.
. The commission is hereby empowered and directed to preverx* persons, partnerships, or corporations, except , banks, and common carriers subject to the Acts to regulate commerce, from using unfair
methods of competition in commerce.
Whenever the commission shall have reason to believe, that any
such person, partnership, or corporation has been or is using any
unfair method of competition in commerce, and if it shaZ appear to
the commission. that a proceeding by it in respect thereof would be
to the interest of the public, it shall issue and serve upon such
person, partnership, or corporation a complaint stating its charges
in that respect, and containing a notice of a .hearing upon a day and
at a place therein fixed at least thirty days after the service of said
complaint. The person, partnership, or corporation so complained of
shall have the right to appear at the place and time so fixed and
show cause why an order should not be entered by the commission

574

OCTOBER TERMVf, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

Pennsylvania corporation with principal place of business at Philadelphia, has long engaged in publishing, selling and circulating weekly and monthly periodicals in
interstate- commerce. Thai with intent, purpose and
effect of suppressing Competition in the publication, sale
and circulation of periodicals it now refuses and for some,
Months past has refused to sell its publications to any
dealer Who will not agree to refrain from selling or distributing those of certain competitors to other dealers or
distributors. That with the same -intent, purpose and
effect, it- is. making and for several months last past
has made contracts with numerous wholesalers to distribute its periodicals as agents, and not to distribute
those of other .publishers without permission. That
wholesalers so restricted are the principal and often the
only medium for proper distribution of weekly and
Tcluiring such person, partnership, or corporation to cease and desist
from the violation of th6 law so charged in said complaint.
If upon such hearing the commission shall be of the opinion that the
method of competition in question is prohibited by this Act, it shall
make a report in writing in which it shall state its findings as to the
facts, and shall issue and. cause to be served on such person, partnership, or corporation, an order requiring such person, partnership, or
corporation to cease and desist from using such method of competi-

tion.
If such person, partnership, or corporation fails or neglects to obey
such order of the commission while the same is in effect, the commission may apply to the circuit court of appeals of the United States,
within any circuit where the method of competition in question was
used or 'wher' such person, partnership, or corporation resides or
carries on business, for the enforcement of its order, and shall certify
and file with its applcation a transcript of the entire record in the
proceeding, including all the testimony taken and the report and
order of the commission. 'Upon such filing of the application and
transcript the court shall cause notice thereof to be served upon such
person, partnership, or corporation and thereupon shall have jurisdiction of the proceeding and of the question determined therein, and
shall have power to make and enter upon the pleadings, testimony,
and proceedings set forth in such transcript a d~crce affirming, modi-

FED. TRADE COMM. v. CURTIS CO,
568

575

Opinion of the Court.'

monthly periodicals in various localities throughout the
United States, and many of the so-called agents formerly
operated under contracts with respondent which abridged
their liberty of resale.
The second section declares there is reason to believe
respondent is violating § 3, Act of Congress approved October 15, 1914,-Clayton Act-c. 323, 38 Stat. 730,1 and
fying, br setting aside the order of the commission. The findings of
the commission as to the facts, if supported by testimony, shall be
conclusive. If either party shall apply to the court for leave to
adduce additional evidence, and shall show to the satisfaction, of the
court that such additional evidence is material and that there were
reasonable grounds for the failure to adduce such evidence in the
proceeding before the commission, the court may order such additional evidence to be taken before the commission and to be adduced
upon the hearing in such manner and upon such terms and conditions
as to the court may seem proper . ..
Any party required by such order of the commission to cease and
desist from using such method of competition may obtain a review
of such order in said circuit court of appeals by filing in the court
a written petition praying that the order of the commission be set
aside. A copy of such petition shall be forthwith served upon the
commission, and thereupon the commission forthwith shall certify
and file in the court a transcript of the record as hereinbefore provided. Upon the filing of the transcript the court shall have the
same jurisdiction to affirm, set aside, or modify the order of the commission as in the case of an application by the commission for the
enforcement of its order, and the findings of the commission as to
the' facts, if supported by testimony, shall in like manner be
conclusive.
'."
Sec. 3. That it shall be unlawful for any person engaged in commerce, in the course of such commerce, to lease or make a sale or
contract for sale of goods, wares, merchandise, machinery, supplies or
other commodities, whether patented or unpatented, for use, consumption or resale within the United States or any Territory thereof
or the District of Columbia or any insular possession or other place
under the jurisdiction of the United States, or fix a price charged
therefor, or discount from, or rebate upon, such price, on the condition, agreement or understanding that the lessee or purchaser thereof
shall not use or deal in the goods, wares, merchandise, machinery.

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

specifically charges: That respondent publishes, sells and
circulates weekly -and monthly periodicals in interstate
commerce. "That for some months past, in such commerce, it has sold and is now selling and making contracts
for the sale of its publications and periodicals for use and
resale and is fixing the price charged on condition, agreement or understa'nding that the purchaser shall mot sell
other publications or periodicals, thereby substantially
lessening competition and tending to create a monopoly.
Respondent replied to the notice to show cause why it
should not be required to desist "from the violations of
law charged in this complaint." It, denied unlawful conduct and claimed that the parties contracted with as
*agents Were such in fact; that their services were necessary for the maintenance of the plan originated by .it of
distributing publications through school boys, who require
special superintendence; and further, that such agents
had lawfully agreed to abstain from other connections
and devote their time and attention to superintendiiiV
the boys and to the general upbuilding of sales. Copies
of respondent's first and second agreements with distributors accompanied the answer. The first had then
been superseded and largely discontinued.
The second contract provides that upon requisition re. spondent will consign its publications to the agent as-he
may require, retaining title until they are sold; that the
agentwill supply the demand of boys and dealers at specified prices; will use reasonable efforts and devote all necsupplies or other commodities of a competitor or competitors of the

lessor or seller, where the effect of such lease, sale, or contract for
sale or such condition, agreement or understanding may be to substantially'les'sen competition or tend to create a monopoly in any line
of commerce."
Section 11 authorizes the Trade Commission to enforce § 3, with
certain exceptions, and directs' that this shall be done as prescribed
by the act establishing thle Commission, supra, with like power of
review in the'courts.

FED. TRADE COMM. v. CURTIS CO.
Opinion of the Court.

568

essary time to promoting the sales of such publications;
"that without the written consent of the publisher he
will not display, deliver or sell any copies of any one of
said publications before the authorized publication date
as specified in the printed requisition blanks, or dispose of
any copies of said publications in the territory of any
other district agent or special agent of the publisher, or
act as agent for or supply at wholesale rates any periodicals other than those published by the publisher, or directly or indirebtly furnish to any other publisher or
agent the names and addresses of the persons to whom the
publisher's publications are sold or delivered; " that subject to the principal's direction and control the agent shall
train, instruct and supervise an adequate force of boys for
distributing the publications; and that he will return unsold copies, their cover pages or headings.
After taking much testimony-2500 pages-the Commission made a brief and rather vague report of two pages,
containing findings and conclusions based on the second_
contract with dealers and without direct reference to the
earlier one. The substance of the relport follows.
Paragraph one. Respondent, a Pennsylvania corporation with principal place of*business at Philadelphia, is
engaged in publishing, selling and distributing weekly and
monthly periodicals among the States.
Paragraph two. "That in the course of such commerce,
the respondent has entered into contracts with certain
persons, partnerships or corporations to sell or distribute
its magazines, by the terms of which contracts such persons, partnerships or corporations, have agreed, among
other things, not to 'act as agent for or supply at wholesale rates any periodicals other than those published by
the publisher,' -the respondent herein--without the
written consent of such publisher; that of such persons,
These words are quoted from the second contract.
45646o-23--37

578 -

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

.260'U.

S.

partnershipsor corporations-,approximatelyfour hundred
forty-seven (447), hereinafter referred to as 'deaders,'
are and previous-'to entering into such contracts with
respondent were regularly engaged in the business of
wholesale dealers in newspapers :or magazines, or -both,
and as such are as-aforesaidengaged in.'the sale or distri-.
bution of magazines, or newspapers, or both, of otherpub-'
lishers; that many of said four -hundredforty-seven (447) .
dealers, and many others 'who have become such whblesale dealers since*entering into such contracts, bound by
said contract provision as aforesaid, have reque~sed respondent's permission to engage also in the sale or distribution of certain publications competing in the course of
said commerce, with those of respondent, which permission as to said competing publicationshas.been-uniformly
denied by respondent; that in enforcing said contractprovision as -to said dealers, and in denying' them said per'mission,respondent has prevented and now prevents certai of its competitors from utilizing established channels
for the general distributionor sale of magaqnes or newspapers, or both, of different and sundry publishers; that
such established channels are in most instances-the prn-;
"cipal and most efficient, and in-numerous cases, the only..
medium for the distributi6n of such publications in the
various localities of :the United States that such, method
of competition so employed by respondent'in.the course of
such commerce, as aforesaid, has proved and is unfairY."
Paragraph three. "That in the -course of such commerce, the respondent has made sales of its magazies to,
or entered into contracts for the sale of the sahe-with
certain persons, partnerships or corporations,. by the terms
of which sales, or contracts for such sales, such 'persons,
partnerships- or corporations have - agreed, -among other
things" [here follow, without material change, the, words
of paragraph -two printed, -supra, in 'italics] "that- the
effect of said contract provision has been, ahd is, to sub-"

FED. TRADE COMM. v. CURTIS CO.
568

579
7

Opinion of the Court.

stantially lessen competition with respondent's magazines
and tends to create for the respondent a monopoly in the
business of publishing magazines of the character of those
ptiblished by respondent."
The Commission concluded that the method of competition described in paragraph two *of the report violates
§ 5, Act of September 26, 1914, and that the acts and conduct specified in'the third paragraph violate § 3, Act of
October 15, 1914. And it thereupon ordered: That the
respondent cease and desist, while engaged in interstate
commerce, from entering into any- contracts, agreements
or understandings which forbid persons, partnerships or
corporations already engaged in the sale or distribution of
magazines or newspapers, or both, of other publishers, from
acting as agents for, selling or supplying to others at wholesale rates, periodicals other than respondent's without its
consent; and from contracting with those already engaged
in the sale or distribution of magazines or newspapers, or
both, of other publishers, forbidding them from selling or
distributing or continuing to sell or distribute the same;
and from enforcing any provision of an outstanding contract whereby one fIow engaged in the sale or distribution
of magazines or newspapers, or both, of other publishers
is forbidden to sell or distribute the same without respondent's permission.
The statute provides (§ 5) that when the Commission's.
order is duly challenged it shall file a transcript of the
record, and thereupon the court shall have jurisdiction
of the proceedings and the question determined therein
and shall have power to make and enter, upon the pleadings, testimony and proceedings, a decree affirming, modifying or setting aside the order; but the Commission's
findings as to the facts, if supported by evidence, shall be
conclusive. The court is also empowered to order the
taking of additional evidence for its consideration.
We have heretofore pointed out that the ultimate determination of what constitutes unfair competiti*i is 'for

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

the court, not the Commission; and the same rule must
apply when the charge is that leases, sales, agreements or
understandings substantially lessen competition or tendto create monopoly. Federal Trde Commission v. Gratz,
253 U. S. 421, 427.
Manifestly, the court must inquire whether the Commission's findings of-fact are supported by evidence. If
so supported, they are conclusive. But as the statute
grants jurisdiction to make and enter, upon the pleadings,
testimony and proceedings, a decree affirming, modifying
or setting aside an order, the court must also have power
to examine the whole record and ascertain for itself the
issues presented and whether there are material facts not
reported by the Commission. If there be substantial evidence relating to such facts from which different-conclusions reasonably may be drawn, the matter may be and
ordinarily, we think, should be remanded to the Commission-the primary fact-finding body-with direction
to make additional findings, but if from all the circumstances it clearly appears that in-the intere.st of justice the
controversy should be decided without further delay the
court has full power under the statute so to ao. The
language of the statute is broad and confers power of review not found in the Interstate Commerce Act. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.v. Behlmer, 175 U. S.648, 675,
676; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Clyde S. S. Co..
181 U. S. 29, 32; and Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R., R. Co., 186 U. S. 320,
340,, while helpful as to proper practice, do not determine
the present problem.
SHere we find a vague general complaint charging unfair
methods of competition and also sales and contracts for
sales on condition that the purchaser shall not deal in
other publications. This is followed by an answer setting -out the original agreement with dealers and also the
substituted form. The findings of fact make no refer-

iED. TRADE COMM. v. CURTIS CO.
568

Opinion of the Court.

ence whatever, to the first agreement, but do show that
respondent had entered into the second (quoting its language) with "certain" (no number is given but there
were 1535) persons, partnerships and corporations, approximately 447 of whom before making such contracts
were wholesale dealers in newspapers and magazines.
Further, that many of this 447, as well as other parties to
such contracts, have been denied permission to distribute
the periodicals of other publishers. And that in these
ways the most efficient established channels of distribution have been closed to competitors, competitibn lessened and a tendency to monopoly established.
The present record clearly discloses the development of
respondent's business, how it originated the plan of selling through school boys, the necessity for exclusive agents
to train and superintend these boys and to devote their
time and attention to promoting sales, and also contracts
with 1535 such agents. The Commission's report suggests no objection as to 1088 of these representatives
who, prior to their contracts,, had not been engaged in
selling and. distributing' newspapers or periodicals for
other publishers. There is no sufficient evidence to show
that respondent intended to practice unfair methods or
unduly to suppress competition or to acquire monopoly,
unless this reasonably may be inferred from making and
enforcing the second or substituted agreement with many
important wholesale dealers thtoughoift the country.
Judged by its terms, we think this contract is one of
agency, not of sale upon condition, and the record reveals
no surrounding circumstances sufficient to give it a different character. This, of course, disposes of the charges
I
under the Clayton Act.
The engagement of competent agents obligated to devote their time and attention to developing the principal's business, to the exclusion of all others, where noth-

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Taft, Ch. J., and Brandeis, J., doubting.

260 U. S.

ing else appears, has long been recognized as proper and
unobjectionable practice. The evidence clearly shows
that respondent's agency contracts were made without
unlawful motive, and in the orderly course of an expanding business. It does not necessarily follow because
many agents had been general distributors, that their
appointment and limitation amounted to unfair trade
practice. And such practice cannot reasonably be infeired-from the other disclosed -circumstances. Having
regard' t the undisputed facts, the reasons advanced to
vindicate the general plan are sufficient.
Effective competition requires that traders have large
freedom bf action when conducting their own affairs.
Success alone does-not show reprehensible methods, although it may increase or render insuperable the difficulties which rivals'must face. The mere selection of competent, -successful -and exclusive representatives in the
orderly course of development can give no just cause for
complaint, and, *hen standing alone, certainly affords no
ground for condemnation under the statute.
In the present cause the Commission has not found all
the material facts, but considering those which it has
found and the necessary effect of the evidence, the order
to desist is clearly wrong and should be set aside without
further delay.
: !-:
Affirmed.
MR. CHIEF JuSTICE TAw, doubting.
The sentence in the majority opinion, which makes me
express doubt, i§ that discussing the duty of the court in
reviewing the action of the Federal Trade Commission
when it finds that ihere are material facts not reported by
the Commission. The opinion says:
"If there be substantial evidence relating to such facts
from which different conclusions reasonably may be
drawn, the matter may be and ordinarily, we think, should

FED. TRADE COMM. v. CURTIS CO
"568

Taft, Ch. J., and Brandeis, J., doubting.

be remanded to the Commission-the primary fact-finding
body-with direction to make additional findings, but if
from all the circumstances it clearly appears that in the
interest of justice the controversy should be decided without- further delay the court has full power under the
statute so to do."
If this means that where it clearly appears that there
is no substantial evidence to support additional findings
necessary to justify the order of the Commission complained of, the court need not remand the case for further findings, I concur in it. It is because it may bear
the construction that the court has discretion to sum up
the evidence pro and con on issues undecided by the Commission and make itself the fact-finding body, that I venture with deference to question its wisdom and correctness.
I agree that in the further discussion of the evidence, the
reasoning of the opinion of the Court would seem to
justify the view that it does not find the evidence sufficient to support additional findings by the Commission
justifying its order. I only register this doubt because I
think it of high importance that we should scrupulously
comply with the evident intention of Congress that the
Federal Commission be made the fact-finding body and
that the Court should in its rulings preserve the Board's
character as such and not interject its views of the facts
where there is any conflict in the evidence.
I am authorized to sar that MR. JUsTIcE BRANDmS
concurs with me in this.

