KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. VAN ZANT.
452

459

Syllabus.

246. It was intended to substitute this proceeding in
personam, as the first section of the act expressly indicates, in lieu of the previous unlimited right of claimants
to libel such vessels in rem in the ports of the United
States and its possessions. Congress had no power, however, to enact immunity from seizure in respect of such
vessels when in foreign ports, and therefore the embarrassment of seizures was to be mitigated in another way,
i. e., by claiming immunity on international girounds and,
if that failed, by stipulation or bond in the name of the
United States. The provisions of the seventh section
confirm the 'construction by which proyisions of the
second section are limited in their application to vessels
within the jurisdiction of the United States.
A number of important questions as to the construction
of this statute have arisen in other cases,, and the argument before us has taken a wide range. Those questions
do not require decision here, and we do not deide them.
All we hold here is that the District Court was right in
construing the second section of the Suits in Admiralty
Act not to authorize a suit in personarnm against the
United States as a substitute for a libel in rem when the
United States vessel is not in a port of the United States
or of one of her possessions.
Affirmed.
KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. VAN ZANT.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME, COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSOURI.

No. 142. Argued December 4, 1922.-Decided January 2, 1923.
1. By forbidding common carriers engaged in interstate commerce
to issue free passes for interstate journeys, except to specified
classes of persons, (Hepburn Act, 1906,) Congress took over the

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Petitioner.

260 U. S.

subject- to the exclusion of state laws, not only as to what passes
may be issued and used, but also as to their limitations, conditions
and- effeqt upon the rights .and responsibilities of the passenger and
railway company, respectively. P. 408.
2. A- condition affixed to a free pass, issued under the Hepburn
Act, that the person accepting and using it assumes all the risk
of accident and personal injury, is valid. P. 468.
..
289 Mo. 163, reversed.

CEvoRTIORI to review, a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Missouri, affirming a judgment recovered by the
respondent from the Railway Company in .an action for
personal injuries suffered by her, in that State, "while
she was traveling from Kansas to Oklahoma by means of
a free pass, which had been issued to her as the mother
of one of the company's employees.
-Mr.Samuel W. Moore, with whom Mr. Frank H.
Moore'and Mr. Cyrus Crane were on the brief,' for peti-

tioner.

I

The original Act to Regulate Commerce, passed in
1887, did not expressly prohibit free transportation, and

it was only when such transportation constituted discrimination and was not. in the exception contained in
§ 22 of the act that it was illegal. The first general prohibition of free transportation, and the first express au-

thorization of free transportation, except in certain specified instances permitted by § 22,-appeared in the amendment of 1906. In -the Act of April 13, 1908, a proviso
was added expanding ' the meaning of the word "employees." In the amendment of June 18, 1910, which
is not involved herein, a further proviso was added making provision for the exchange of passes or franks wiih
telegraph, felephone and cable lines.
The evident purpose of Congress, in its amendment of
1906; was to bring the whole subject of interstate transportation under direct nati6nal control. The issue of
free transportation, unregulated except by the general

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. VAN ZANT.
459

461

Argument for Petitioner.

anti-discrimination provisions of the, Act of 1887, and
by the several States whose efforts to enforce their statutes were not attended with great success, had resulted
in gross discrimination. National legislation of a comprehensive character, therefore, was imperatively necessary to provide one uniform rule covering the subject of
free transportation, and one uniform method of its enforcement. The amendment of 1906 was responsive to
this demand.
Congress, we contend, reached out and took over the
entire subject of free interstate transportation, specifying with particularity the persons to whom it might lawfully be issued and providing penalties for infractions of
the law by individuals as well as the carriers. This of
necessity deprived the States of all power or authority
to legislate with respect to such transportation. The
exertion of national power would be frustrated and nullified if authority remained in the several States to encroach upon or in any manner to affect the subject-matter
with conflicting statutes or decisions.
The stipulation in a free interstate pass releasing the
carrier from liability is a part of the pass itself. The
pass is a license, and the person to whom it is issued is
a licensee. Northern Pacific'Ry. Co. v. Adams, 192 U. S.
440, 454. The terms and conditions on which it is issued
and given validity are an integral part of the license
itself. A release of all claims for personal injuries has
always been a condition to the use of free transportation.
Such a stipulation was upheld in 1858. Welles v. Railway Co., 26 Barb. 641; affd. 24 N. Y. 181.
The fact that the release was on the back of the pass
instead of on its face is of no consequence. The pass
consisted of writing and printing on both sides of the
paper. This was the pass over which Congress assumed
jurisdiction by the amendment of 1906. That part of
Jhe pass which" consists of the release, equally with that

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Petitioner.

260 U. S.

part which authorized the plaintiff to travel free was
thus withdrawn from the domain- of state legislation.
Congress is presumed to have enacted the amendment
of 1906 with full knowledge of the decisions of this Court
in Northern Pacific Ry. Co.v. Adams, supra; and Boering v. Chesapeake-Beach Ry. Co., 193 U. S. 442. It
knew that the usual release stipulation was an integral
part of the pass itself, and that the use of a free pass involved a waiver on the part of the carrier of its compensation, and likewise a waiver onthe part of the user
of the pass of any claim for, damage to his person. It
may also be assumed that Congress knew of the conflicting statE statutes, some-of which gave and others denied
compensation.
The validity of a stipulation against liability contained
in a free interstate pass issued by a railway company
under the Act of 1906 came before this Court in Charleston & Western CarolinaRy. Co. v. Thompson, 234 U. S.
576.
A pass is ordinarily conditioned to be non-transferable
and subject to forfeiture if presented for piassage by any
other than the person to whom, it, wa's issued. Is the
validity of these provisions to be tested by state statutes
and.-decisions of state courts? Passes also contain a time
limit, during which they are valid for passage. Is this
-likewise' subject to 'state regulation? Following the passage:of the Act of 1906, the Interstate Commerce Commission promulgated various rulings relative to the issue
of free interstate transportation, prescribing its form,
designating'the persons'who c6me within its provisions,
defining the word "family" as used in the act, etc. I
Watkins, Shippers and Carriers, 3d ed., pp. 648-652.
May -these rulings and regulations .be amended or repealed or superseded by state authority? Many -other
illustrations might be given.
,The confusion that would result is aptly illustrated by
the confusion which actually existed in the -enforcement

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. VAN ZANT.
459

463

Argument for Petitioner.

of a carrier's liability for loss or damage to freight shipments prior to the amendment of 1906. Adams Express
Co. v. Croninger,226 U. S. 491.
The Act of 1906, providing for the issue of free interstate transportation, is silent on the subject of the liability
of the pass-holder for personal injuries; but this is no
answer to our contention that the federal authority has
taken over the entire subject of free interstate transportation, including the stipulations upon which it may be
issued, and their validity. Postal Telegraph Co. v..
Warren-Godwin Lumber Co., 251 U. S. 27; Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Boegli, 251 U. S.315.
Similarly, it has been held by this Court that the Federal Employers' Liability Act has occupied the entire
field with respect to the liability of carriers for damages
to employees, to the exclusion of state control. New
Orleans & Northeastern R. R. Co. v. Harris, 247 U. S.
367; New York Central R. R. Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S.
147; Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492;
Pryor v. Williams, 254 U. S.43.
The same argument that is made by the respondent
here might be urged in support of the proposition that
as the statute was silent touching the transferability of
mileage, excursion or commutation passenger tickets, that
subject was not taken over by Congress, but remained
subject to state regulation. But this.Court, in Bitterman
v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 207 U. S.205, decided
otherwise.
The stipulation against liability contained in the pass
was a contract entered into pursuant to federal authority.
The Hepburn Act permitted carriers to issue free interstate transportation to employees and their dependents,
and, by necessary implication, to issue such transportation on the usual and customary conditions. In authorizing the issuance of a free pass, Congress likewise authorized this inseparable incident to all free transporta-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Respondent

260 U. S.

tion. The parties to such a contract authorized by an act
of Congress are entitled to have its validity determified
and its terms construed in accordance with the rules
which obtain in the federal courts to the exclusion of the
rules'which obtain ii state'courts. Tullock v. Mulvane,
184 U. S. 497; Cincinnati,New- Orleans & Texas Pacific
Ry.' Co.' v. Rankin,'-241 U. S. 319;,Missouri, Kansas &
Texads Rp. Co. v. Harriman,227-U. S. 657.
Mr. Charles'H Montgomery, for -tespondent, submitied.
...
Federal legislatI i as to carriage of a person on an ad-

iitedly'free p'ass has 'not occupied the field of liability
fot negligent injury-to such person' even on an interstate
journey No attempt has been made to regulate Or control this liability, and no mention-made of it.' The same
is true as to a Contiact- designed to 'exempt the carrier
from liability. 'until'Congress'does act affirmatively on
these subjects, the state courts are- free to apply their
local laws, even though, in so doing, they may indirectly
affect' interstate commerce contracts of carriage. Hepburn Act,' §-, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584; Chicago, Rock Island
& Padcfic Ry: Co. v. -Maucher,248 U. S. 359; Savage v.
J6nes, 225 U. S. 501, Pennsylvania R. R. Co. V. Hughes,
191 U. S. 477; Southern Pacific Co. v. SchUyler, 22TU. S.
601; Clark v. SoUthern'Ry Co., 69 id. App. 697; Weir
v. R6undtree,-173 Fed. 779; Smith v. Atchison, Topeka
& Santa Fe Ry. Co., 194 Fed. 81; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Jensen, 244 U. S. 205; Wiley v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 227
Fed, 129; Powler'--v. Railroad Co., 229 Fed. 375; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352.
In passing on'the question of liability of the carrier for
negligent injury to a person riding on a free pass, and the
question of the validity of a contract exempting the carrier from such liability, a federal court does not determine
those questions.by' reason of any provision of the -ep-

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. VAN ZANT.
459

465

Argumentfor Respondent.

burn Act, but by its own interpretation of the common
law. Southern Pacific Co. v. Schuyler, supra; Weir v.
Roundtree, supra; Smith v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe
Ry. Co., supra; Martin v. Pittsburg & Lake Erie R. R.
Co., 203 U. S. 284.
Where the stipulation on the pass is void under the
local law where the injury occurred and where the case
is tried in the state court, the state law will be enforced
by this Court on review from the state court. It is only
where the case is tried originally in a federal court, or
brought there for trial by the process of removal, that
the federal court will apply its own interpretation of
the common law. Williams, Juris. & Pr. in Fed. Cts., p.
193, par. 4; Southern Pacific Co. v. Schuyler, supra;
Weir v. Roundtree, supra; Smith v. Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe Ry. Co., supra; Fowler v. Railroad Co., supra;
Tweeten v. Railroad Co., 210 Fed. 830; Charleston &
Western CarolinaRy. Co. v. Thompson, 234 U. S. 576.
Authorities cited by defendant fall under the class of
cases tried in a federal court, or arise either under the
federal enactments with regard to the carriage of interstate telegrams or express, or under federal enactments
with regard to employers' liability, in both of which cases
Congress has dealt at length and has occupied the entire
field of liability of the carrier, including the subjects of
the action and defenses.
The stipulation on the back of the free pass in the
instant case does not cover the matter of a negligent injury to the person of the passenger riding on the pass,
and there is no contract in this case purporting to exempt
the carrier from liability for such negligent injury. The
case may be sustained independently of a federal question,
and, for that reason also, the holding of the state court
should not be disturbed. Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Adams, 192 U. S. 440; Charleston & Western Carolina
Ry. Co. v. Thompson, supra; Boering v. Chesapeake
45646-----3o

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the C'ourt.

'260 U. S.

Beach Ry. Co., 193 .U.S- 442; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Schuyler, supra.
MR.JUSTICE- McKE'NA

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The case presents the effect of a condition in a free
pass issued by petitioner to respondent and used by her
in transportation-in interstate commerce-whether determined by the provisions of § 1' of the Hepburn Act (34
Stat. 584) or by the laws of Kansas and Missouri.
There is practically nQ dispute about the facts. The
pass was' authoritatively and gratuitously issued and she
sustained injuries in Missouri while using it in an interstate journey. This injury she alleged, and prayed judgment against the Railway Company in the sum of
$25,000.
TheiRailway Company opposed the pass to the action.
It contained the, following condition': "The person accepting and using it, thereby assumes all risk of accident
and. damage to person and baggage."
The company averred that it was an interstate carrier
by rail and issued- the pass "under Art. 5 of the Federal
Law, known aq the Interstate Comiherce Act," and it
was to be "interpreted and controlled in its effect and'
operation by decisi6ns of the Federal Courts" construing
the act.
To the defense respondent replied that at the time of
receiving the pass she resided in Kansas, and that in aecepting it "she did not and could not assume the risk of
accident or damage to her person and baggage, caused
by the negligence" of 'the company, and that the condition upon the pass expressing such effect was void under
the provisions of Art. 3, c. 98, of the General Statutes of
This reference is evidently to a subdivision of § 8563 of the publ cation known as "U. S. Compiled Statutes 1916."--Reporter.

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. VAN ZANT.
459

467

Opinion of the Court.

the State of Kansas, 1915, relating to railroads and other
carriers, and that, under the statutes and the common law
of Kansas, the condition was against public policy.
She further pleaded that under the laws of Missouri
the condition was also against public policy and void, and'
that the action was not, and is not, brought " upon any
Federal Statute or any Federal law, but upon the common law liability in force" in Missouri and that "the
action was and is brought in the Circuit Court of Jasper
County, Missouri, under the laws of the State of Missouri," and that the company's liability to her was to be
determined by the laws of that State.
The trial court took and expressed the view that the
condition upon the pass was void under the laws and'
public policy of both States, and ruled that the condition
upon it constituted no defense to the action and excluded
it from the case. Declarations of law recognizing the
relevancy and controlling effect of the condition were
refused.
The court thereupon found for respondent (plaintiff)
and fixed her damages at $8,000-that amount having
been stipulated as representing her injury. Judgment
was entered for that amount, and was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State.
The Supreme Court discussed at some length the Hepburn Act, the extent of its regulation, and what it permitted to state powers or excluded from them, and said,
adopting the language of a Supreme Court Cominissioner of the State, "Our own conclusion is that Congress
has not legislated on the subject of the rights and liabilities of the parties in cases of interstate carriage of passengers under free passes, not coming within the prohibition of the Hepbufn Act, or respecting the validity of
stipulations or conditions annexed to such passes exempting the carrier from liability and that, therefore, these
matters remain the subject of regulation by the several
States."

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

The comment concedes the supremacy of federal control, and leaves only the inquiry, Has control been exerted
in the Hepburn, Act?
The act'was passed June 29, 1906, and was an amendment to the Interstate, Commerce Act of 1887. It was,
as the act it amended, was, a regulation of carriers in
interstate commerce, and it provided that "no common
carrier subject to the .provisions of this act shall, after
January first,. nineteen hundred and seven, directly or indirectly, issue or give any interstate free ticket, free pass,
or free transportation for passengers, except to its em"
And a carrier vioployees and their families...
lating the act is subject-to a penalty, and any person not
of those excepted, whd uses the pass, is also subject to a
penalty.
The provision for passes, with its sanction in penalties, is a regulation of interstate commerce to the completion of which the determination of the effect of the
passes is necessary. We think, therefore, free passes in
their entirety are taken charge of, not only their permission and:use, bui the limitations and conditions upon
thgir use. Or to put it another way, and to specialize,
the relation of -their users to the railroad Which issued
them, the fact and measure of responsibility the railroad
incurs by their issue, and the 6xtent of the right the person to whom issued acquires, are taken charge of. And.

that responsibiliyl and' those rights,- this Court has decided; the railroad company can con rol by conditions in
the passes. Antecedently to the passage of the Hepburn
Act, we decided that a passenger who accepts' a free pass
may exempt a carrier from responsibility for negligence,
and no public policy is violated thereby. Northern Pa-'
cific"Ry. Co. v;. Adams, 192 U. S. 440; Boering.v. Chesapeake Beach,Ry. Co., 193 U. S. 442.
* Those cases were considered and applied as giving validity to the stipulations of passes issued under the act

ST. LOUIS CO. v. PRENDERGAST CO.
459

469

Statement of the Case.

in Charleston& Western CarolinaRy. Co. v. Thompson,
234 U. S. 576, according thereby freedom of transportation to the possessor of a pass, and giving assurance to
the railroad company that.its gratuity will not be given
the consequences of compensated right-and its incident
obligations, and be a means of exacting from the company indefinite damages. - In this case the prayer was
for $25,000-the recovery was for $8,000. Circumstances
might have made it the larger sum-and this, it is the
contention and decision, is the determination of state
laws which could neither permit nor forbid the gift. We
cannot assent. The pass proceeded from the federal
act; it is controlled necessarily in its incidents and consequences by the federal act to the exclusion of state
laws and state policies, and such is the effect of the cited
cases.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
ST. LOUIS MALLEABLE CASTING COMPANY v.
GEORGE C. PRENDERGAST CONSTRUCTION
I
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 154. Argued December 7, 8, 1922.-Decided January 2, 1923.
An owner of property within a special seiver district, who connected
his premises with the sewer when constructed and availed himself of its benefits, is estopped from maintaining a suit in which,
upon the ground that the manner of constituting the district and
apportioning the cost infringed his rights under the Fourteenth
Amendment, he seeks to cancel the tax bill isued to the contractor
against his property. P. 472.
288 Mo. 197, affirmed.
ERROR to a decree of the Supreme Court of Missouri,
affirming a decree dismissing a suit brought by the plain-

