.438

OCTOBER TERM,- 1922.
Statement of the Case.

260 U. S.

declaration 'that the lands therein described were, when
the act was passed and for all purposes of settlement and
sale, unsurveyed lands. With the disappearance of the
physical evidences the old, survey survived only as an
historical event. As a tangible, present fact it ceased to
exist and a new survey became necessary to regstablish
the status of the area over which it had extended as surveyed lands of the United States.
The decree below is
Affirmed.
HEITLER v. UNITED STATES.
PERLMAN v. UNITED STATES.
GREENBERG v. UNITED STATES.
McCANN v. UNITED STATES.
QUINN v. UNITED STATES.
-.ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
-THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

N6s.:-185-189. - Motion to transfer to Circuit Court'of Appeals submitted December 11, 1922.-Decided. January 2, 1923.
1. Under the Act of Septdmber 14, 1922, e. 305, 42 Stat. 837, a case
brought here from the District Court upon: the mistaken assumption that it presents a substantial -constitutional question, but

which involves other questions within the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court, of Appeals, should be' transferred to that court.
I
'"
, ,
P.439.
2. This statute should be construed liberally. P. 440.

Cases transferred.

APPLIdATIONs to transfer these cases, heretofore dismissed for want of j'urisdiction (post, 703), to the Circuit
Court, of Appeals. For the. opinion of the District Court,
see 274 Fed. ,401.

HEITLER v. UNITED STATES.
438

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Weymouth Kirkland aiid Mr. Robert N. Golding,
for plaintiffs in error, in support of the motion.
MR. CHIEF JusTIC=E TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These were writs of error issued directly to the District
Court under ยง 238 of the Judicial Code to review sentences of fine and imprisoinment on the ground that they
were cases in which the constitutionality of the National
Prohibition Act, under which the convictions were had,
was drawn in question. In addition to the constitutionality of the Prohibition Act, the assignments of error
raised many questions as to the admissions of evidence
and the charge of the court. We held that in view of our
previous decision affirming the validity of the National.
Prohibition Act (National Prohibition Cases, 253 U. S.
350), the plaintiffs in error were precluded from raising
the question again and basing thereon a claim of jurisdiction for a writ of error under ยง 238, that the question
made was, therefore, not substantial but frivolous, andthat the writ should be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
on the authority of Sugarnan v. United States, 249 U. S.
182, 184, and cases cited. Heitler v. United States, post,
703. This conclusion made it impossible for us to consider the other errors assigned.
The plaintiffs in error now invite our attention to an Act
of Congress approved September 14, 1922, c. 305, 42 Stat.
837, adding ยง 238 (a) to the Judicial Code, which provides
that " . . . if an appeal or writ or error has been or
shall be taken to, or issued out of, the Supreme Court in a
case wherein such appeal oi writ of error should have been
taken to, or issued out of, a circuit court of appeals, such
appeal or writ of error shall not for such reason be dismissed, but shall be transferred to the proper court, which
shall thereupon be possessed of the same 'and shall proceed to the determination thereof, with the same force

OCTOBER TERM, i922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 IT

Q

and'effect as if such appeal or writ of error had been duly
taken to, 6r issued out of; the court to which .itis so
transferred."
This is a remedial statute and. should be construed liberally to carry out the evident purpose of Congress. The
fact that th
-oppurunity
therein given to litigants in the
Circuit Courts of Appeals where they have mistakenly
sought a'review in this Court may at times be abused
and unduly prolong-the litigation and delay the successful party below; is no reason why when the case comes
clearly within the language of the statute the transfer
should not be made. The successful party below may
avoid undue delay by a prompt motion to dismiss in this
CourtF in such cases..
The cases before us are clearly within the remedy of
the statute. Based on the assumption of the presence of
a real constitutional question in the case, plaintiffs in
error sought review, here not only of that question but
of the numerous other errors assigned in the record. Williamq
on v. United St ates, 207 U. S. 425, 432, 434;
Goldman v. United States, 245 U. S.474, 476. We find
that there is no constitutional question of sufficient substance to give us jurisdiction to consider these other
errors., In. other words, we find that to have such alleged
errors considered and reviewed, the writ of error herein
should have issued out of the Circuit Court of Appeals
of the -proper circuit. Accordingly we hold that these
several cases should be transferred to the Circuit, Courto; Appeals of the Seventh Circuit at the costs of the
respectiye plaintiffs in error, that that court be'thereupon
possessed of the jurisdiction of the same and proceed to
the ,determination of sid writs of error as if such writs
had issued out of such court.
And it isso ordered.

