220

OCTOBER .TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

260 U. S,

The orders in this Court will be two:
First." The motion of appellees is granted and the
order of injunction granted by Judge Foster when allowing the appeal is set aside as without jurisdiction.
Second.,. The application to this Court for an injunc-.
tion maintaining the status quo is referred to the District Court constituted of three judges for its determination.
'The costs on this motion willbe taxed to the appellant.

UNITED-STATES v. MINNIE ATKINS, ET AL.
NANCY ATKINS ET AL. v. UNITED STATES, MINNIE FOLK, NE ATKINS, ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
- Nos. 45, 46. Argued October 11, 12, 1922.-Decided November 20,
1922.
An act of the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes in enrolling
a uame as that of a Creek Indian alive on April.1, 1899, amounted,
,when duly approved by -the Secretary of the Interior, to a judgment in an adversary proceeding, establishing the existence of the
individual and his light to membership, and is not subject to be
attacked by the -Unitd States in a suit against those wlo claim
his land allotment, in which the Government, alleges that the
person enrolled never existed and that the enrollment was procured by fraud on the Commission and resulted from gross mis:
tike of law and fact. P. 224.
268 Fed. 923, affirmed.

APPEALS from i decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court in a suit broughtby the United States upon the grounds of fraud and-mistake to cancel an ,enrollment. on the Creek tribal roll
and'an allotment cerfificate and patent issued thereunder,

UNITED STATES v. ATKINS.
220

Argument for the United States.

and to quiet the title to the land so allotted in the United
States and the Creek Nation, as against the defendants
and interveners, who claimed under such enrollmentand
allotment. The District Court dismissed the bill, quoad
the United States, and adjudicated .the title as between
the other parties,
Mr. H. L. Underwood, with whom Mr. Solicitor General
Beck and Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter were on
the brief, for the United States.
The finding of the Dawes Commission was subject to
impeachment at the suit of the United States for fraud
or mistake.
The Government's bill alleged that through the connivance of Minnie Atkins the name of Thomas Atkins
was placed upon the 1895 roll of Creek citizens as a men!ber of her family. The materiality of this lay in the
fact that the Dawes Commission, in preparing the final
citizenship roll from which allotments of Creek tribal
lands were made, relied upon and accepted this 1895 roll
as evidence showing those who were entitled to enrollment.
Had there been a hearing, with the United States or
the Creek Tribe actively contesting the enrollment of
the name of Thomas Atkins,-had witnesses been heard
on the question of whether he ever existed, the decision
of the Commission would have been impervious to attack. Vance v. Burbank, 101 U. S. 514; United States
v. Wildcat, 244 U. S. 111.
The rule of Vance v. Burbank hai only been applied,
in this Court at least, to cases where there has been a
contest proceeding where- full hearing has been had and
testimony introduced or the opportunity to do so given.
'De Cambra v. Rogers, 189 U. S. 119; Estes v. Timmons,
199 U. S. 391; Love v. Plahive, 205 V. S. 195; Ross v.
Stewart, 227 U. S. 530; Ross v. Day, 232 U.'S. 110.

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for the United States.

260 U. S.

The District Court, however, seemed to consider the
fact that the Creek Council had notice of the proceedings
before the Comimission, and hence might have made objection to the enrollment of any name, rendered the proceeding an adversary one. Mark, the notice was not as to
this specific individual case, but general notice or knowledge that the Commission was making inquiry and determination upon which to predicate enrollments generally.
The Government has fully as much notice Of proceedings. to acquire public~lands as it had 'of the Dawes
Commission proceedings, and yet the former are held to
be ex parte, and fraud intrinsic therein is held ample basis
for relief in equity. McCaskill Co. v. United States, 216
U. S. 504; Diamond Coal & Coke Co. v. United States, 233
U. S. 236; Washington Securities Co. v. United States,.
234 U. S. 76. The same is true of naturalization proceedings. Johannessen v. United States, 225 U. S. 227; United
States v. Ness, 245 U. S. 319.
In United States v. Minor, 114 U. S. 233, a suit to
cancel a patent for fraud, this Court distinguished Vance
v. Burbank, and definitely pointed out the scope and extent of the rule of the latter case. That -the rule of the
Vance Case is limited to cases where there has been a
hearing in which the issues sought to be-impeached have
been tried; is evidenced by a later statement in Hilton
v. Guyot, 159 U. S. 113, 207. See Chicago, Rock Island
& Pacific Ry. Co. v. Callicotte, 267 Fed. 799; certiorari
denied, 255 U: S. 570; -Marshall v. Holmes, 141 U, S.
589; Wells Fargo & Co. v. Taylor, 254 U. S. 175. The
decision in United States v. Wildcat is not to the contrary, for it is plainly limited to cases other than those
involving fraud or mistake.
Independently of the. question of fraud, we contend
that if no suich person as Thomas Atkins ever existed,
the enrollment of that'nain6 as a citizen of the Creek

UNITED STATES v. ATKINS.
220

223,

Opinion of the Court.

Nation and the allotment and patenting of a tract of land
in his name was a nullity and conveyed no title, and that
no rights or interest thereunder could vest in any person.
Cf. Iowa Land & Trust Co. v. United States, 217 Fed.
11; Moffat v. United States, 112 U. S..24; Thomas v.
Wyatt, 25 Mo. 24.
The Government asserts that all the parties defendant
are strangers to the title to this land. Surely it is entitled to be heard on that issue.
The principle applicable to this case is that of Scott v.
McNeal, 154 U. S. 34.
'Equity will grant relief against'a judgment, the enforcement of which would be unconscionable, or which,
was rendered through mistake or accident, the party seeking relief not knowing of the existence of a defense or
being prevented from availing himself of it by accident or
mistake. Pickford v. Talbott, 225 U. S. 651.
The evidence establishes, and the courts below should
have found, that Thomas Atkins was a myth; hence
the patent issued in his name conveyed no- title. Vitelli
& Son v. United States, 250 U. S. 355.
Mr. Joseph M. Hill, with whom Mr. Napoleon B.
Maxey, Mr. Malcolm E. Rosser and Mr. Henry L. Fitzhugh were on the briefs, for Nancy Atkins et al.
Mr. C. B. Stuart, with whom Mr. E. C. Hanford, Mr.
M. K. Cruce and Mr. Lee Bond were on the briefs,
for Minnie Atkins et al.
MR. JusTIcE MCREYw LDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Under authority of acts of Congress the [Dawes] Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes enrolled Thomas Atkins. as a Creek Indian alive on April 1, 1899; the Secretary of the Interior approved; an allotment was selected
for him; a patent issued and was recorded as required by

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

law. Minnie Atkins undertook, as his sole heir, to convey
the land to certain named defendants. Alleging that
Thomas Atkins never existed and, that his enrollment
came about through fraud and grossmistake of law and
fact, the United States brought this proceeding against
many defendants to annul the allotment certificate and
patent and to quiet title in the Tribe.
Minnie Atkins maintains that the enrolled Thomas was
her son; that he was born prior to.April 1, 1899, and died
thereafter, leaving her as sole heir. Nancy Atkins claims
to be the mother and sole heir. She filed a cross bill asking that the title to, the land be confirmed to her and those
claiming through her. Henry Carter asserts that he is the
individual enrolled as Thomas Atkins.
The trial court ruled that the enrollment by the Coin.mission amounted to an adjudication that Thomas Atkins
was d living person on April 1, 1899, entitled to membership; that this finding was not subject to collateral attack
under a mhere allegation of his nonexistence; and that it
could not be annulled for fraud unless the fraud alleged
and proved was such as to have prevented a full hearing
within the doctrine approved by United States v Throckmorton, 98 U. S.. 61; Vance v. Burbank, 101 U. S. 514;
Hilton V. Guyot, 159 U. S. 113. The relief asked by the
United States was accordingly denied. Having considered the vohninous testimony, it found Minnie Atkins
to be the mother of Thomas and owner of the land subject
to the rights of those claiming under her. The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed a final decree embodying these
conclusions. 233 Fed. 177; 268 Fed. 923.
In United States v. Wildcat, 244 U. S. 111, 118, 119, it
was insisted that the Indian died prior to April 1, 1899,
and that his eniollment as of that date was beyond the
jurisdiction of the Dawes Commission and void within
the doctrine of Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34. Much consideration was given to the statutes creating and defining

UNITED STATES v. ATKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

220

the powers of the Commission and the effect of an enrollment. This Court said:
"There was thus constituted a quasi-judicial tribunal
whose judgments within the limits of its jurisdiction were
only subject to attack for fraud or 'such mistake of law or
fact as would justify the holding that its judgments were
voidable. Congress by this legislation evidenced an intention to put an end to controversy by providing a tribunal before which those interested could.be heard and
the rolls authoritatively made up of those who were entitled to participate in the partition of -the tribal lands.
It was to the interest of all concerned that the beneficiaries of this division should be ascertained. To this end
the Commission was established and endowed with
authority to hear and determine the matter ..
"When the Commission proceeded in good faith to determine the matter and to act upon information before
it, not arbitrarily, but according to its best judgment, we
think it was the intention of the act that the matter,
upon the approval of the Secretary, should be finally
concluded and the rights of the parties forever settled,
subject to such attacks as could successfully be made upon
judgments of this character for fraud or mistake.
"We cannot agree that the case is within the principles
decided in Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34, and kindred
cases, in which it has been held that in the absence of a
subject-matter of jurisdiction an adjudication that there
was such is not conclusive, and that a judgment based'
upon action without its proper subject being in existence
is void. . . . We think the'decision of such -tribunal,
when not impeached for frauid or mistake, conclusive of
the question of memabership in the tribe, when followed,
as was the-case here, by the action of the Interior Department confiiing the allotment and ordering the patent
conveying the lands, which were in fact issued." >
It must be accepted now as finally settled that-the en•rollmeit of a member of an Iidian tribe by the Dawes
45646--23-----15

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

Commission, when duly approved, amounts to a judgment
in an adversary proceeding .determining the existence of
the individual and his right to membership subject, of
course, to impeachment under the well established rules
where such judgments are involved.
The questions of fact relating to the conflicting claims
adVanced by Minnie Atkins; Nancy Atkins and Henry
Carter have been determined in favor of Minnie -byboth
courts below upon survey of all the evidence; and-we find
nothing which would justify us in overruling their well
considered action.
The decree of the court below is affirmed.
KLINE ET AL.,, AS THE. BOARD OF IMPROVE-.:
MENT OF PAVING IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NO. 20, OF THE CITY OF TEXARKANA,ARKANSAS, v. BURKE CONSTRUCTION COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 81.

Argued-October 19, 20, 1922.-Decided November 20, 1922.

1. Where a federal court has first acquired jurisdiction of the subjectmatter of a cause, it may enjoin the parties from proceeding in a
state court of concurrent jdrisdiction where the effect .would be
to defeat or impair the jurisdiction of the federal cburt. P. 229.
2. But where the actions'in both causes are in peksonam, seeldng
only money judgments, jurisdiction in the one is not affected by
the other, and there is no basis for such an injunction P. 230.
3. The right of a citizen to prosecute his cause against -a citizen of
another State in the federal court is hot a right granted by the
Constitution'; and it affords no ground upon which that court may
assume jurisdiction to enjoin the' defendant from prosecuting a
counter action, on the same contract, in a state court. P. 233.
271 Fed. 605, reversed.
' CERTIORARI

to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,

reversing a decree of the District Court, which denied an

