OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
I,

Syllabus.

260 U. S.

fee-upon the carrier in this case in the Supreme Court was
invalid. The judgment of the Supreme Court is to this
extent reversed and in other respects affirmed. The costs
in this court will be taxed one-third to the defendant in
error, and two-thirds to the plaintiff in error.
Reversed in part and
Affirmed in part.
WICHITA RAILROAD & LIGHT COMPANY v.
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF THE
STATE OF KANSAS ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.':

No. 27. Argued, April 24, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. Jurisdiction acquired'by the District' Curt on the ground of
diverse citizenship, is not divested by the intervention by leave of
the court, of a party, opposed to and of like citizenship with the
plaintiff, but whose presence is not essential to a decision of the
original controversy. P. 53.
2. The, jurisdiction of the District Court arising from diverse citizenship extends to the entire suit, and to every question, state or
federal, involved in its determination. P. 54.
3. Where a plaintiff in equity successfully movei the District Court
for judgment on the pleadings, reserving the right to adduce evidence and be heard on issues of mixed law and fact presented, a
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, reversing the decree in his
favor, should accord that opportunity, and not dismiss the bill.
P. 54.
4. Under the Public Utility Law, of Kansas, Laws 1911, c. 238, in
order that an increase of rates, proposed by a gas company, may
supersede lower rates fixed by its contract with another, it is not
enough that the change be filed with and consented to by the Commission, under § 20; there must, under § 13, be an express finding
by the Commission, after full hearing and investigation, that the
existing rates are unjust, unreasonable, unjustly discriiinatoity, or
unduly preferential; and without such finding the Commission's
order is void. -P. 56.

WICHITA R. R. v. PUB. UTIL. COMM.
48

Statement of the Case.

5. Such a finding may not be supplied by inference aua reference
to the averments of the petition invoking the action of the Commission. P. 59
6. Delegation of pure legislative power is against constitutional principle; therefore, adiniitrative agencies granted authority over
rates are enjoined to follow designated procedure and rules of decision as a condition to the validity of their action. P. 58.
268 Fed. 37, reversed.

The Wichita Railroad & Light Company, a corporation
of West Virginia, is an electric street railroad and lightfurnishing company doing business in Wichita, Kansas,
and will be known as the Wichita Company. The Kansas
Gas and Electric Company, also a West Virginia corporation, and to be known as the Kansas Company, is engaged
in the business of furnishing electric light and power to
consumers inKansas. - In 1910, the two companies made
a contract by which the Kansas Company agreed to furnish and the Wichita Company agreed to accept and pay
for electrical energy, at certain rates, until 1930; and the
contract was fulfilled by both until 1918. Then the Kan-sas Company filed a petition with the Public Utilities
Commission of Kansas, to be known as the Commission,
in which it alleged that, on account of the increase in the
cost of production and distribution,
"the net income of your petitionerfor the year ending
December 31, 1917, was approximately $190,000 less than
it would and should have been if your petitioner had been
able to operate under the normal conditions that existed
in 1914, at which time its said rates we're first installed
as aforesaid; that if said rates are continued in' effect
hereafter the result thereof will be disastrous to your
petitioner, depriving it of a reasonable return upon the
value of its said property, and making it impossible to
find a market for the securities it must issue and sell in
order to provide funds with which to make improvements,
45646°-23---4

50

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

260 U. S.

additions and betterments which are necessary, if it is
to furnish proper-and adequate service to the communities in-which it operates."
- The petition further recited that in December, 1916,
being of opinion that it could reduce its rates for residential and commercial lighting, it proposed a gradual reduction and filed a schedule for the purpose, which the Commission had not acted on, that in January, 1917, it did
reduce its rates, but that, if a further reduction under the
schedule for 1918'were made, the loss of net earnings to
the petitioner would be $220,000.
The petition continued:
"Your petitioner is of the opinion that in order to meet
this situation, and in order to increase the net earnings
of your petitioner in an amount sufficienf to offset the loss
resulting to it from the conditions above stated, an order
should be entered by the Commission'authorizing petitioner to add to its existing rates the surcharge hereinafter
set out. There are approximately 19,900 consumers now
served by your petitioner; the proposed surcharge does
not affect consumers using 100 kilowatt hours or less per
month, and, therefore, 17,000 of said total of 19,900 consumers are not affected. In apportioning the surcharge
equitably among the remainder of said consumers, your
petitioner has taken into consideration, the fact that in
the generation of electrical energy for-large power consumers fuel is approximately 75 per cent of the cost of the
generation, and that, therefore, a surcharge which has for
its purpose the reimbursement of the utility company for
increase in the-cost of fuel, should be so adjusted that the
surcharge should increase in proportion to the amount
of energy consumed. The percentage of increase fixed by
such surcharge over existing rates is, therefore, increased
in proportioni to the amount of consumption. The last

WICHITA R. R. v. PUB. UTIL. COMM.
48

51

Statement of the Case.

step in said surcharge schedule affects 6 consumers, and
the last two steps 38 consumers.
"Wherefore, your petitioner asks that an order be made
by your Honorable Commission authorizing your petitioner to add to its existing rates for electricity in the
State of Kansas, and until the further order of the Commission the following surcharges:
For the first 100 kwh per month, no surcharge.
For the next 1,000 kwh per month, 12 mills net per kwh.
For the next 10,000 kwh per month, 9.5 mills net per
kwh.
For the next 1,000,000 kwh per month, 8. mills net per
kwh.
For all excess kwh per month, 3.5 mills net per kwh."
The order of the Commission upon this petition recited
that it "came duly on for order by the Commission upon
the pleadings of the respective parties and the evidence
introduced thereunder; and the Commission upon consideration of said pleadings and evidence and being duly
advised in the premises, finds that the Kansas Gas &
Electric Company should be authorized and permitted to
add to its existing rates for electricity supplied by it to
consumers in -the State of Kansas, until the further order
of the Cohnnission, the following net surcharge:
For the first 100 kwh per month, no surcharge.
For the next 14,900 kwh per month, 1 mill surcharge
per kwh.
For the next 20,000 kwh per month, 2 mills surcharge
per kwh.
For all excess over 35,000 kwh per month, 3 mills surcharge per kwh."
The rates thus fixed were substantially higher than the
contract rates.
The Wichita Company, thereupon, filed a bill in equity
in the United States District Court for Kansas seeking to

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

260 U. S.

enjoin the Commission from putting the new rates in force
as against it. . After averring the diverse citizenship of
the parties and a sufficient jurisdictional aiount involved,
'the bill alleged that the order impaired the contract which
it had with the Kansas Company, in violation of Article I,
§ 10 of the Federal Constitution, that the rates fixed
were unjust and unjustly discriminatory as against the
complainant, that -itwas the largest customer of the
Kansas Company, and that the increase of its rate as
compared with that of others violated every equitable
rule of rate-making and deprived the plaintiff of its property without due process, and denied it the equal protection of the laws, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. A temporary injunction was issued. The answer
of the Commission. averred 'that the proceedings were
regular and authorized by the statute of Kansas, that the
Wichita Company had participated in them, and denied
that the surcharges were discriminatory or unjust. The
Kansas Company then applied for leave to intervene,
and leave was granted. -Itanswered the bill much as the
Commission did, but with more elaboration, denying that
the order was discrimihatory or unjust, and averring that
the contract of 1910 was necessarily subject to the legitimate exercise of the police power, of the State, and that
an order of the Commission regularly made in the exercise of that power could not be regarded as working an
impairment of the obligation of the contract in the sense
of the contract clause of the Federal Constitution.
The WichitaCompany made a motion for judgment on
the pleadings, on the ground that the order of the Commission was void on its face, but saved and reserved to
itself "all of its rights in the presentation of evidence and
proof and hearing upon the merits of the. issues. of fact
and law otherwise than as above statedi involved in this

WICHITA R. R. v. PUB. UTIL. COMM.
48

Opinion of the Court.

cause, in the event it should be determined that final
judgment and decree should not be entered pursuant to
this motion."
The District Court gave judgment for the Wichita
Company on the pleadings and enjoined the Commission
and the Kansas Company from putting into force the
increased rates. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed
the decree of the District Court and directed a 'dismissal
/
of the bill, Judge Sanborn dissenting.
The Wichita Company has appealed to this Court.
Mr. Henry I. Green, with whom Mr. Thomas F. Doran
was on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. H. L. McCune, with whom Mr. A. E. Helm was on
tfie briefs, for appellees.
after stating the case as
above, delivered*the opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TFT',

The appellees urge that the concession of the appellant
that contracts in respect to the rates to be charged by a
public utility are subject to suspension or abrogation by
the police power (,f the State validly exercised through an
administrative agency takes out of this case any federal
question, because the issue then is only a state question,
to wit, whether, under the state statute, the police power
was validly exercised. Upon this ground they insist that
the bill should have been, and must be now, dismissed for
want of jurisdiction and without any inquiry into the
other issues of law and fact. The original bill set out two
grounds of jurisdiction, first that of diverse citizenship,
and, second, that the case arose under the Federal Constitution in that the order violated the contract clause of
the Federal Constitution, and also the Fourteenth Amenidment. The intervention of the Kansas Company, a citi-

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

zen of the same State as the Wichita Company, its opponent, did not take away the ground of diverse citizenship.
That ground existed when the suit was begun and the
plaintiff set it forth in the bill as a matter entitling it
to go into the District Court. Jurisdiction once acquired
on that ground is hot divested -by a.subsequent change
in the citizenship of the parties. Mullen v. Torrance, 9
Wheat. 537, 539; Clarke v. Mathewson, 12 Pet. 164, 171;
Koenigsbergerv. Richmond Mining Co., 158 U. S. 41, 49;
Louisville, New Albany & Chicagb Ry. Co. v. Louisville
Trust Co., 174 U. S. 552. 566. .Much. less is such jurisdiction defeated by the intervention, by leave of the court,
of a party whose presence is not essential to a decision
of. the controversy between the original parties. See
Equity Rule 37. Adler v. Seaman, 266 Fed. 828, 841;
King v. Barr, 262 Fed. 56, 59; Jennings v. Smith, 242 Fed.
561, 564. The Kansas Company, while it had an interest
and was a proper party, was not an indispensable party.
In-re-Engelhard,231 U. S. 646.
The jurisdiction of the District Court was not limited
to federal questions presented by the bill, but extended
to the entire suit and every question, whether federal or
state, involved in.-its determination.
The appellant assigns for error that the Circuit Court
of Appeals, by directing a dismissal of the bill; refused it
a hearing on the truth of the averments of the answer as
to the validity of the order, and also on the issue made
by the bill and answer as to whether the rates, as fixed by
the Commission, deprived it of its property without due
process of law and denied it the equal protection of the
laws. In this ruling we think there was error..
The stress in the hearing on the motion was put on the
two contentions, one, that the order of the Commission
was void on its face for lack of a necessary finding that
the existing contract rates were unreasonably low, and.
the other, that the facts averred in the petition of the

WICHITA R. R. v. PUB. UTIL. COMM.
48

Opinion of the Court.

Kansas Company to the Public Utilities Commission were
not sufficient to justify such a finding if it had been made.
The District Court sustained the contention; the Court
of Appeals denied it. The motion for judgment being
overruled, the complainant should have been accorded an
opportunity, the right to which it had carefully reserved,
to traverse the allegations of fact by the Kansas Company
as to the basis for the order of the Commission and also
to maintain by evidence and argument the issue as to due
process of law and the equal protection of the law. The
charge that the order made a classification denying due
process and the equal protection of the law was a mixed
question of law and fact, upon which the complainant
had a right to be heard. Neither court passed on it. For
this reason, if there was nothing else, the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals would have to be reversed. Lane
v. Pueblo of Santa Rosa, 249 U. S. 110, 114.
There still remain for our consideration the questions
upon which the courts below differed.
The Public Utility Law of Kansas, c. 238 of the Session
Laws of 1911, creates a commission and makes full provision for its procedure and powers. Section 13 provides
that:
"It shall be the duty of the commission, either updn
complaint or upon its own initiative, to investigate all
rates, ... fares... and if after full hearing and investigation the commission shall find that such rates ... are
unjust, unreasonable, unjustly discriminatory or unduly
preferential, the commission shall have power to fix and
order sutstitdted therefor such rate or rates ... as shall
be just and reasonable."
Section 14 and § 15 require the complaint against rates,
etc., to be in writing, and a formal public hearing of
which due notice is to be given to the parties interested.
I Section 15 directs how the notice shall
be given and
how lone before the hearing and its contents.

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.Opinion of the Court;

260 U. S.

Section- 16 provides that if upon such hearing the rates,
etc., of any.public utility are found to be unjust, unreasonable, unfair,, unjustly discriminatory or unduly preferential, the Commission shall have power to fix and
substitute therefor rates, etc., "as it shall find, determine or decree to be just, reasonable and necessary." It
provides that all orders and decisions of the Commission
whereby any rates, etc., are altered, changed, modified,
fixed or established, shall be served on the public utility
affected thereby and that such public utility, unless an
action is commenced, in a court of proper jurisdiction, to
set aside "the findings, orders and decisions" of the Commission or to review and correct the same, shall carry
the-provisions of the order into effect.
. Section 20 provides that, whenever any public utility
shall desire to make a change in any rate or rates, it shall
file with the Commission a schedule showing the changes
desired to be made and put in force by such 'public utility,
but that no change shall be made in any rate without the
consent of the Commission and within thirty days after
such changes have been authorized by the Commission
copies of such schedule shall be filed in every station, office
or depot of such public utility for public inspection.
It is said that the 6rder in this case was authorized by
§ 20 and therefore that'all that was needed was the filing
of a schedule of changed rates and the consent of the
Commission, and that no fimiding was required as in § 13
and § 16. This construction of § 20 is doubtless correct,
but it shows that the filing of a schedule of changed rates
under that section cannot accomplish the result of abrogating contract rates. It could not do so any more than
would the original filing of a schedule of rates under § 11
requiring every public utility to publish and file with the
Commission all schedules of rates do this. The consent
of the Commission in § 20 is made necessary only to prevent changing schedules without notice to the Commis-

WICHITA R. R. v. PUB. UTIL. COMM.
48

Opinion of the Court.

sion and thus to secure a proper supervision of schedules.
Such consent does not involve a hearing or a finding and
a decision. The section does not, therefore, cover, or
measure the essentials of, the proceeding in this case before the Commission which the order shows was upon
pleadings and inter partes. We find nothing in State ex
rel. Caster v. Kansas Postal-Telegraph Cable Co., 96
Kans. 298, which gives a different construction to § 20.
The majority opinion in the Circuit Court of Appeals
in maintanning the validity of the order in this case relies
on § 18 of the act, which provides that all orders, rates,
etc., fixed by the Commission shall be in force thirty days
thereafter and shall be prima facie reasonable until
changed by the Commission or by a court; and holds from
this that it must presume that there was substantial evidence to warrant the findings. But as we have seen there
is'no finding of reasonableness or unreasonableness. Nor
can we suppose that the presumption was to obtain until
there was such-a finding.
The Supreme Court of Kansas, in applying the statute,
recognizes that a contract for rates with a public utility
can not be abrogated except after a finding by the Commission that they are unreasonable. This is made clear
by the decision in Kaul v. American Independent Telephone Co., 95 Kans. i. In that case, a number of customers sought to enjoin a telephone company from disconnecting their lines because they did not pay the schedule rates published and filed with the Commission under
the law of 1911 we are considering. The complainants
showed an agreement by the Telephone Company made
before the Act of 1911, by which the Telephone Company
had engaged to furnish them the service at lower than
the published schedule rates on file with the Commission.
The injunction was granted. The court said:
"While that commission is vested with broad regulatory powers it is not shown nor claimed that it has found

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court. -

260 U. S.

the contract rates to be unreasonable. Granting, without
deciding, that the commission has the power under the
law to determine whether or not the rates prescribed by
the contract are reasonable and valid, and to revise them
if found to be unreasonable, it does not appear that it
has exercised the power, nor that they have been presented to it for its consideration. The passage of the act
did not automatically overthrow contracts, nor set aside
schedules of rates which had been agreed upon. Neither
did the fact that the defendant published and filed a
schedule of rates with the public utilities commission
abrogate the contract. In any event, rates previously
'agreed upon between utilities and patrons will continue in
force until the commission has found them to be unreasonable, and has prescribed other rates."
The proceeding we are considering is governed by § 13.
That is the general section of the act comprehensively
describing the duty of the Commission, vesting it with
power to fix and order substituted new rates for existing
rates. The power is expressly made to depend on the
condition that after full hearing and investigation the
Commission shall find existing rates to be unjust, unreasonable, unjustly discriminatory or unduly preferential.
We conclude that a valid order of the Commission under
the act must contain a finding of fact after hearing and
investigation, upon which the order is founded, and that
for lack of such a finding, the order in this case was void.
,This conclusion accords with the construction put upon
similar statutes in other States. Public Utilities Commission v. Springfield Gas & Electric Co., 291 Ill. 209;
Public Utilities Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio Southwestern R. R. Co., 281 Ill. 405. Moreover, it accords with
general principles of constitutional government. The
maxim that a legislature may not delegate legislative
power has some qualifications, as in the creation of
municipalities, and also in the creation of administrative

WICHITA R. R. v. PUB. UTIL. COMM.
48

Opinion of the Court.

boards to apply to the myriad details of rate schedules
the regulatory police power of the State. The latter
qualification is made necessary in order that the legislative power may be effectively exercised. In creating such
an administrative agency the legislature, to prevent its
being a pure delegation of legislative power, must enjoin
upon it a certain course of procedure and certain rules of
decision in the performance of its function. It is a wholesome and necessary principle that such an agency\,must
pursue the procedure and rules enjoined and show a substantial compliance therewith to give validity to its
action. When, therefore, such an administrative agency
is required as a condition precedent to an order, to make
a finding of facts, the validity of the order must rest upon
the needed finding. If it is lacking, the order is ineffective.
'It is pressed on 'us that the lack of an express finding
may be supplied by implication and by reference to the
averments of the petition invoking the action of the Commission. We can not agree to this. It is doubtful whether
the facts averred in the petition were sufficient to justify
a finding that the contract rates were unreasonably low;
but we do not find it necessary to answer this question.
We rest our decision on the principle that.an express find"ing of unreasonableness by the Commission was indispensable under the statutes of the State.
We think the motion for judgment on the pleadings
should have been granted.
The decree'of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and that of the District Court is affirmed.

