BOURJOIS & CO. v. KATZEL.
682

689

Syllabus.

cannot suppose that it was intended to invalidate existing
contracts good when made. New York Central R. R. Co.
v. Lazarus, 278 Fed. 900; William F. Mosser Co. v. Payne
(W. Va.), 114 S. E. 365; Northern Milling Co. v. Davis
(Wise.), 190 N. W. 351. In our opinion this contract
was good when made. The time allowed was reasonable.
Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Harriman, 227
U. S. 657, 672. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Leatherwood,
250 U. S. 478, 481. We agree with the District Court
that Decker &.Sons v. Director General, 55 I. C. C. 453,
should not be understood or allowed to contravene our
conclusion, upon the facts here. The statutes of the
States where the goods were shipped and the suit was
brought do not affect the contract, and the reasonableness of the limitation is a matter of law; Missouri, Kansas
& Texas Ry. Co. v. Harriman, 227 U. S. 657, 672, so
that the bringing of a previous suit, alleged in the declaration, does not save the case. Riddlesbargerv. Hartford
Insurance Co., 7 Wall. 386.
The only other argument that seems to us to need
notice is that the claim is not within the words of the
limitation. But- it is of the kind that the clause "suits
for loss, damage or delay" manifestly intended to limit
and we see no reason why it should not be included under
the head of loss.
Judgment affirmed.
A. BOURJOIS & COMIPANY, INC. v. KATZEL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND

CIRCUIT.

No. 190. Argued January 8, 192.3.-Decided January 29, 192:3.
A foreign manufatturer and vendor of face powder sold to'the plaintiff it; business and good will in this country, together with its
trade marks, registered under the Trade Mark Act; tkie plaintiff
4-,),46;'-'',:
---11

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

re-registered the marks and went on with the business here, under
the old name, buying the powder from the original concern. abroad
and selling it in boxes bearing the trade mark, and so built up aprcfitable trade, the public associating the marks with the plaintiff's goods. The defendant bought and imported the product of
the foreign concern in its gentine boxes, 'vhich bore labels closely
resembling those of the plaintiff, and-sold it here. Held, that such
sales were an infringement of the plaintiff's trade marks and that
a preliminary injunction was proper, under §§ 17 and 19 of the
Trade Mark Act. P. 691.
275 Fed. 539, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
reversing an order of thfe District Court, granting a preliminary injunction in a suit to restrain infringement of

trade marks.
Mr. Hans v. Briesen for petitioner.
Mr. John B. Doyle, with whom Mr. John R. Rafter was
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTic

HOLmEs delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a bill to restrain the infringement of the trade
marks "Java" and "BOurjois" registered in the Patent
Oftce of the United States. A preliminary injunction was
granted by the District Court, 274 Fed. 856, but the order
was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, one Judge
dissenting. 275 Fed. 539. A writ of certiorari was
granted by this Court. 257 U, S. 630, In 1913 A. Bourjois & Cie., E. Wertheimer & Cie., Successeurs, doing
business in France and also in the United States, sold to
the plaintiff for a large sum their business in the United
States, with their good will and their trade marks registeredin the Patent Office. The latter related particularly.
to face powder, and included the above words. The plaintiff since its purchase has registered them again and goes

BOURJOIS & CO. v. KATZEL.
689

Opinion of the Court.

on with the business that it bought, using substantially
the same form of box and label as its predecessors and importing its face powder from France. It uses care in
selecting colors suitable for the American market, in packing and in keeping up the standard, and has spent much
money in advertising, &c., so that the business has grown
very great and the labels have come to be understood by
the public here as meaning goods coming from the plaintiff. The boxes have upon their backs: "Trade Marks
Reg. U. S. Pat. Off. Made in France-Packed in the
U. S. A. by A. Bourjois & Co., Inc., of New York, Succ'rs.
in the U. S. to A. Bourjois & Cie., and E. Wertheimer &
Cie."
The defendant,-*pnding that the rate of exchange enabled her to do so "ta,
profit, bought a large quantity of
the same powder in France and is selling it here in the
French boxes which closely resemble those used by the
plaintiff except that they have not the last quoted statement on the backs, and that the label reads "Poudre de
Riz de Java," whereas the plaintiff has found it advisable
to strike out the suggestion of rice powder and has
"Poudre Java" instead. There is no question that the
defendant infringes the plaintiff's rights unless the fact
that her boxes and powder are the genuine product of the
French concern gives her a right to sell them in the present form.
We are of opinion that the plaintiff's rights are infringed. After the sale the French manufacturers could
not have come to the United States and have used their
old marks in competition with the plaintiff. That plainly
follows from the statute authorizing assignments. Act of
February 20, 1905, c. 592, § 10, 33 Stat. 727. If for the
purpose of evading the effect of the transfer, it had arranged with the defendant that she should sell with the
old label, we suppose that no one would doubt that the
contrivance must fail. There is no such conspiracy here,

692 -

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

but, apart from the opening of a door to one, the vendors
could not- convey thdir goods 'free from the restriction to
which the vendors were'subject. Ownership of the goods
does not carry the right to sell them with a specific mark.
It does not necessarily carry the right to sell them.at all
in a givcn place. If the goods were patented in the
United States 'a dealer who lawfully bought similar goods.
abroad from one who hid a right to make and sell them
tlmre could not sell them in the United States. Boesch v.
Gruff, 133 U. S. 697. The monopoly in that case is more
extensive, but we see no sufficient reason for holding that
the monopoly of'a trade mark, so far as it, goe., is less
,complete. It deals with' a delicate matter that may be of
great value but that easily is destroyed, and theref9re
should be prbtected witih porresponding' care. It is said
that the'trale mark here' is that of the French house aid
truly Indi6ates the origin of the goods. But that is riot
accurate. It is the trade mark of the plaintiff only in the
United States and indicates in law, and, it is found, by
public 'understandingthaat the goods come from the plaintiff although not made by it. It was sold and could only
be, sol with the good will of the business that the plaintiff 'bought. Eiseman v. Schiffer, 157 Fed. 473. , It stakes
the reputation of the plaintiff upon the character of the
goods' Menendez y. Holt, 128 U. S. 514. The injunction
granted by the District Court was proper under §117 and
19 of the Trade Mark Act. Act of February 20, 1905, c.

592, 33 Stat. 724,72,, 729.
Decree of C rcuit Court of Appeals reversed.

