290

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for the United States.

260 U. S.

The decree is accordingly modified by making the dismissal without prejudice as to all parts of the bill, and as
thus modified it is
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. OREGON LUMBER COMPANY
ET AL.
CERTIIICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR -THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 40. Argued October 9, 1922.-Decided November 27, 1922.
Where the Government sued to annul land patents upon the ground
of fraud, and persisted in the suit after the defendant had pleaded
in bar the statute of limitations applicable to such cases, and the
plea was sustained and the bill dismissed, held, that the Government had elected its remedy, and therefore could not afterward
maintain an action at law. to recover damages for -the fraud.

P. 294.
QUESTIONS certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
arising upon review of a judgment of the District Court
which dismissed the complaint in an action brought by
the United States to recover damages for fraud in procuring patents to public land.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, with whom Mr.
Solicitor General Beck and Mr. H. L. Underwood were on
the brief, for the United States.
it is settled that the doctrine of election of remedies is
applicable only where a suitor has inconsistent remedies
available. When he pursues one of them, he is bound
by his election even if that remedy be not efficacious.
Robb v. Vos, 155 U. S.- 13, 41, et seq.
It is equally well settled that there can not be an election unless inconsistent remedies are available; that the
pursuit of a remedy which a party may think himself
entitled to, but to. which it develops he is not, does not
bar the bringing of a suit on the remedy which does

UNITED STATES v. OREGON LUMBER CO.
290

291

Argument for the United States.

exist. Northern Assurance Co, v. Grand View Building
Association., !03 U. S. 106; Bierce v. Hutchins, 205 U. S.
341; Southern Pacific Co. v. Bogert, 250 U. S. 483; Bistline v. United States, 229 Fed. 546.
We contend the case comes within the last stated rule.
When the United States filed its bill in equity t6 secure
the cancellation of the patents, it was met with a plea by
the defendants that' the. suit was barred because not
brought within six years from the date the patents were
issued. Act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, § 8,26 Stat. 1095,
1099. The Government asserted that the suit was not
barred because it was brought within six years after it
had received notice of the fraud. Cf. Exploration Co. v.
United States) 247 U. S. 435. The 6ase went to trial and
the court held the suit barred because the United States
had notice of the fraud more than six years before suit
was filed. It therefore dismissed the bill on that ground.
It'is very clear, therefore, that when the suit in equity
was filed the United States did not have a right to the
remedy therein sought, namely, the cancellation of the
patents. Hence its course in pursuing that supposed
remedy does not bar the prosecution of the present suit at
law to recover the value of the land.
It is no answer to that proposition to say that when the
suit was brought the"facts respecting notice were known,
or, to be more exact, that knowledge was chargeable to
the United States. Granting that they were known,
whether those facts constituted such notice as would
operate to set the statute of limitations in motion was a
question of law, and because the United States thought
the statute not applicable, wbuld not militate against the
prosecution of the present suit, its mistake being due to
an erroneous view of the law.
The law has not gone so far as to deprive parties of
meritorious claims merely because of attempts to collect

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for the United States.

260 U. S.

them by inappropriate action, upon which recovery could
not be had. McLaughlin v. Austin, 104 Mich. 489, 491.
If the rule were otherwise, a mere mistake of judgment
would result in depriving one of valuable rights. Agar v.
Winslow, 123 Cal. 587. The instant case closely resembles
Bistline v. United States, 229 Fed. 546. See. Tullos v.
Mayfield, 198 S. W. 1073; Stone v. Robinson, 218 S. W. 5.
The statute of limitations invoked in the equity. suit
merely barred the remedy but did not extinguish the right
of the Government to recover the value of the lands.
United States v. Whited & Wheless, 246 U. S. 552.
Again, the fact that the Government pursued the equity
suit to judgment when met with the plea in bar, does not
make that judgment res judicata in the instant suit, for
the sole question decided there was the applicability of the
statute of limitatiois. 'That was no adjudication of the
rights of the Government but only of the availability of
the remedy. Statutes of limitation affect the remedy, not
the merits., Townsend v. Jemison, 9 How. 406; McE1moyle v. Cohen, 13 Pet. 312. A judgment not on the
merits is'not res judicata. Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94
U. S. 351.
Furthermore, we suggest that there is not such inconsistency between a suit to recover the lands patented be-:
cause of fraud and a suit to recover damages for the fraud,
as to bar prosecution of the latter. Friederichsen v.
Renard, 247 U. S. 207. In that- case it was distinctly
pointed out that in a bill in equity to recover lands
fraudulently procured, an alternative prayer might be
made for the value of the lands.,
Mr. W. Lair Thompson, with whom Mr. Wallace
McCamant was on the brief, for Oregon Lumber Company ethl.
MiR.. JUSTICE Su HERIAwD

Court.

delivered the opinion of the

UNITED STATES v. OREGON LUMBER CO.
290

293

Opinion of the Court.

This case is here .upon a certificate from the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, under § 239 of
the Judicial Code.
The plaintiff in error brought an action at law against
the defendants in error in the United States District Court
for the District of Oregon to recover damages for the
fraudulent acquisition of certain lands. The complaint
was filed in February, 1918, and alleged that the Oregon
Lumber Company, a corporation, and certain of its
officers, named as co-defendants, unlawfully conspired to
acquire certain tracts of land in Oregon, under the
Timber and Stone Act of June 3, 1878, c. 151, 20 Stat. 89.
The lands were patented in 1900, subsequently conveyed
by the patentees to an officer of the defendant corporation, and thereafter (with the exception of a small tract)
transferred by such officer to the corporation. The value
of the lands was alleged to be -$65,000 and judgment was
asked for this amount.
The answer denied the material allegations of the complaint and pleaded, among other things, as separate defenses: "(1) that pro tanto to the measure of damages the
United States received from the several entrymen named
in the complaint the aggregate sum of $16,400, which was
the price fixed by law and the practices in the land office
for the lands described in the complaint; (2) thit in October, 1912, the United States brought suit in equity to set
aside the patents for the lands and alleged that it owned
the property described in the complaint herein and that
the patents for the lands which are- the same as are involved in this action were secured through fraud of the
defendants named in the present action and others, and
prayed for the cancellation of the patents; that in the
equity suit substantially the same facts were pleaded as
are pleaded by the United States in this action; that issue
was joined in the equity suit; that in 1916, after trial
upon the merits, the District Court dismissed the equity

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

suit for the reason that the United States had had full
knowledge of the matters complained of'in its complaint
for more than six years before the equity suit was instituted, and that no appeal was ever taken from the decree'
dismissing the complaint of the United States."
The plaintiff' in error demurred to these separate defenses, and, the District Court having overruled the demurrer and the plainfiff in error having declined to plead
further, the court dismissed the complaint and judgment
-was entered.
. The District Court, in rendering its judgment, decided
that, inasmuch as the suit in equity was brought by the
United States with knowledge of all the facts, it constituted an election final and conclusive.
Upon these facts the- following questions are propounded by the Circuit Court of Appeals:
"1. Is an action by the United States for the value of
lands as damages, againsi the patentees for the lands for
fraudulent acquisition of the lands patented under the
timber-and 'stone act, barred where more than six years
have elapsed after the United States, with knowledge of
the fraud, brought a suit in equity to cancel the patents
for the same lands, in which equity suit decree of dismissal was made against the United States on the ground
that the suit was barred by the statute of limitations?,
"2. If the foregoing question be ahswered in the negative, should any damages recoverable be reduced by such
amounts as the United States may have received from the
entrymen, as the price fixed by law for the lands described
in the patents?'
Upon the facts stated the sale was voidable (Moran v.
Horsky, 178 U. S. 205, 212), and the plaintiff in error was
entitled either to disaffirm the-same and recover the lands
or affirm it and recover damages for the fraud. It could
not do both. Both remedies were appropriate to the facts,
but they were inconsistent* since the first was founded

UNITED STATES v. OREGON LUMBER CO.
290

295

Opinion of the Court.

upon a disaffirmance and the second upon an affirmance
of a voidable transaction. Robb v. Vos, 155 U. S. 13, 43;
Connihan v. Thonp~on, Ill Mass. 270, 272. 2 Black on
Rescission and Cancellation, § 562, and cases cited. The
rule is applicable to the Government in cases where patents have been procured by fraud. United States v.
Koleno, 226 Fed. 180, 183. Any decisive action by a
party, with knowledge of his rights and of the facts,
determines his election in the case of inconsistent remnedies, and one of the most unequivocal of such determinative acts is the bringing of a suit based upon one
or the other of. these inconsistent conclusions. Robb v.
Vos, supra.
It is suggested in the brief for the plaintiff in error that
there is not such inconsistency between a suit to recover
lands patented because of fraud and an action to recover
damages for the fraud as to bar the latter, citing Friederichsen v. Renard, 247 U. S. 207. That case, however, lends
no support to the suggestion. The petitioner, Friederichsen, brought suit to cancel a contract for the exchange of
lands, on the ground of fraud practiced upon him. Upon
the coming in of the report of the master it appeared that
petitioner, pending suit, had cut a considerable amounlt of
timber growing upon the lands which he had taken in
exchange. Thereupon the court found that he was not
entitled to equitable relief because, by cutting the timber.
he had ratified the contract and had rendered it impossible
to put the defendant in statu quo; but his renedy was at
law for damages. The court ordered that the master's
report be vacated and the case transferred to the law side
of the court, pursuant to Equity Rule 22, and that the
parties "file amended pleadings to conform with an action
at law." The question was there presented for decision
whether this was the conunencement of a new aetion, so
as to bring it within the bar of the statute of limitaiioos,
and it was determined in the negative. h1ollin- further

OCTOBER TERM,. 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

that under the circumstances the doctrine of election of
remedies did not apply, this Courk said:
"Thus, we are brought to the conclusion that since the
two remedies asserted by the petitioner were alternative
remedies, and since the order made, requiring the conversion of the suit in equity into one at law, was entered by
the eourt sitting in chancery, for us to affirm the judgment
of the Circuit Court, of Appeals that the petitioner, in
obeying the order of the trial court, made a fatal choice of
an inconsistent remedy, would be to subordinate substance to form of procedure, with the result of defeating
a claim which the respondents stipulated had been sufficiently established to justify a verdict against them. This
we cannot copsent to do."
But here in the, equity suit, the plaintiff in error upon
the coming in of the defendant's plea, of the statute of
limitations 1hade no, offer to amend or request to transfer
the case to the, law docket, but proceeded to trial and
j4dgment upon the,original bill; with knowledge of all the
facts for more than six years prior to the filing of its bill.
Defeated in its equity suit, it brought, its action iit law
'upon the same allegations of fact. We think it is not
admissible to thus speculate upon the action of the -court,
and, having met with an, adverse decision to again vex
the defendant with another and inconsistent action upon
the same facts.
The justice of enforcing the doctrine of election of remedies in this case is emphasized by a consideration of the
facts: The lands in question were -conveyed by the United
States in the year 1900. It was not until 1912 that the
first suit ,wasbrought. The judgment, dismissing the bill
inthat suit, was rendered in 1916, and the present action
wa8, br6ught two years later. Thus a period of eighteen
years had elapsed since the transfer of the lands before
the. present action, was begun, during more than twothirds of I which time the United States had possessed

UNITED STATES v. OREGON LUMBER CO.
290

297

Opinion. of the Court.

knowledge of all the facts upon which the plea of the
statute of limitations was founded and sustained.
The-mere filing of the bill in the first suit, according to
many authorities, did not constitute an irrevocable election. But upon ascertaining from their plea that the de-"
fendants intended to rely upon the statute of limitations,
and having knowledge of the facts upon which that plea
was founded, and thereafter sustained, the plaintiff in
error had fairly presented to it the alternative: (a) of
abandoning that suit and beginning an action at law or
transferring it to the law side of the court and making the
necessary amendments to convert it into an action for
damages, as a "mere incident in the progress of the original case," (247 U. S. 210); or (b) of proceeding with the
original case upon the issues as they stood. The plaintiff
in error deliberately chose the latter alternative. If the
election was not final before, it became final and irrevocable then. .Rehfield v. Winters, 62 Ore. 299, 305-306;
Bowker Fertilizer Co. v. Cox, 106 N. Y. 555, 558-559;
Moss v. Marks, 70 Neb. 701, 703.
The case of Bistline v. United States, 229 Fed. 546,
relied upon by the plaintiff in error, is not in conflict with
this conclusion. That-was an action by the Government
to recover damages for the fraudulent acquisition of certain public lands. A prior suit had been brought in eqiiity
to cancel the, patent, but the defendant's answer showed
that the land had been conveyed to persons not made parties to the suit. The Government thereupon promptly dismissed its suit in equity and, on the same day, commenced
the action at law for damages. If, in the instant case, a
like course had been followed upon the coining in of the
defendant's answer pleading the statute of limitations,
the case just referred to would have been in point.
Northern Assurance Co. v.- Grand View Building Association, 203 U. S. 106; William W. Bierce, Limited, v.
Hutchins, 205 U. S. 340; and Southern Pacific Co.v. Bo-

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opipion of the Court.

260 U. S..

gert, 250 U. S. 483, cited by plaintiff in error in support of
its contention, are all distinguishable from the case now
under consideration. In Northern Assurance Co. v. Grand
View Building Association, supra, an action at law had
been brought to enforce an insurance policy, but it was
held that no recovery could be had on the policy as it
stood. Thereupon a suit was brought to reform the policy
and enforce it as reformed. It was held that there was
no inconsistency betwee, these two remedies; and clearly
there was not since both cases proceeded in affirmance
of the contract. In William W. Bierce, Limited, v.
Hutchins, supra,there had been a conditional sale. Plaintiff -first undertook to enforce a lien upon the property
awas
d later brought an action in replevin. It was held there
no election because plaintiff could not
enforce a lien
upon property to which it had title. This Court said: "It
[appellant] could not obliterate the condition and leave
the-contractin force. It may be'that it had an election to
avoid the contract altogether, but, if so,-it did not attempt
to do -i. 'It insisted on 'the contract as the ground of fts
claim to a lien for the price of the goods. The election
supposed and relied upon is an election to keep the contract in force, but to leave out the reservation of title.
. . . But the'assertion, of a lien by one who has title', so
long as it is only an assertion and nothing more, is merely
a mistake. It does not purport'to be a choice, and it cannot' be ohie because the party has no right to
choose. The
claim I the lien suit3 as was said in a recent case, was not
an election but an hypothesis." In Southern Pacific
Co. v. Bogert, supra, there had been much prior litigation over the same subject-matter. It was contended that
the plaintiffs were bouind as privies to this litigation. As
-appears by the decision of -the lower court (Bogert v.
Southern Pcific.Co., 244 Fed. 61) the grievance alleged
in the prior suits was a corporate grievance. Each of the
suits was dismissed on the ground that the decree of fore-

UNITED STATES v. OREGON LUMBER CO.
290

299

Opinion of the Court.

closure involved could not be attacked collaterally. The
Bogert suit, however, was a suit on behalf of the minority
stockholders, asserting no corporate right of the railway
company, but only the right of minority -stockholders.
The right asserted in the prior suits and that asserted in
the Bogert suit were, therefore, the rights of different
parties.
It is further urged that the judgment of the District
Court was not upon the merits but upon the plea' in bar
and that, therefore, when the equity suit was begun,
plaintiff in error had no choice of remedies, since the
judgment rendered established that in fact there was no
remedy in equity at all. The contention, we think, is
unsound.
The defense of the statute of limitations is not a technical defense but substantial and meritorious. The-great
weight of modern authority is to this effect. LilIy-Brackett Co. v. Sonnemann, 157 Cal. 192; Wheeler v. Castor,
11 N. Dak. 347, 353, et seq., where the authorities are
reviewed.
Such statutes are not only statutes of repose, but they
supply the place of evidence lost or impaired by lapse of
time by raising a presumption which renders proof unnecessary. Bell v. Morrison, 1 Pet. 351, 360; Hanger v.
Abbott, 6 Wall. 532, 538; Wood v. Carpenter, 101 U. S.
135, 139; Riddlesbargerv. HartfordInsurance Co., 7 Wall.,
386, 390. And see United States v. Chandler-Dunbar
Water Power Co., 209 U. S.447, 450.
In Wood v. Carpenter,this Court said:
"Statutes of limitation are vital to the welfare of society and are favored in the law. They are found and
approved in all systems of enlightened jurisprudence.
They promote repose by giving security and stability to
human affairs. An important public policy lies at their
foundation. They stimulate to'activity and punish negligence. While time is constantly destroying the evidence

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1.922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

of rights, they supply its place by a presumption which
renders proof unnecessary. Mere delay, extending to the
limit prescribed, is itself a conclusive bar. The bane and
antidote go together."
-In Riddlesbarg'rv.' Hartford Insurance Co.:
"They are founded upon the general experience of
mankind that claims, which are valid, are not usually
allowed to remain neglected.. The lapse of years without
any attempt to enforce a, demand creates, therefore, a
presumption against its original validity, or that it has
.ceased to subsist. This presumption is made by these
statutes a positive bar; and they thus become statutes of
repose, protecting parties from the prosecution of stale
claims,'when, by loss of evidence from death of some witnesses, and the imperfect recollection of others, or'the
destruction of documents, it might be impossible to establish the truth."
I
in Parkesv. Clift, 9'Lea (Tenn.) 524, it ivas held that a
decree dismissing a bill on the ground of lapse of time was
a judgmeni upon the merits. The court said (pp. 531,
532):
"In order that a judgment or decree should be on the
merits, it is not necessary that the litigation should be
determined' on the merits,' in'the moral or abstract sense
of these words. It is sufficient that the status of the action,
was such that the parties might have had their suit thus
disposed of, if they had' properly presented and managed
their respective, cases
. . A finding, against a party,
either upon final hearing or demurrer, that his cause of
action as shown by him; is barred by the statute of limitations. or by laches is a decision upon the merits) concluding
the right of action." See also People ex rel. Best v.
Preston, 62 Hun, 185, 188-189; Black v. Miller, 75 Mich.
323, 329..
Whether based on a plea of the statute of limitations 'or
on a failure to prove substantive allegations of fact, there-

UNITED STATES v. OREGON LUMBER CO. 301
290

Opinion of the Court.

fore, the result of the judgment is the same, viz: that
plaintiff has no case; and to hold that plaintiff may then
invoke another and inconsistent remedy is not to recognize
an exception to the general- operation of the doctrine of
election of remedies but to deny the doctrine altogether.
Here, upon the facts as stated in the bill in equity and
later in the action at law, both remedies were available
to the plaintiff in error. In electing to sue in equity plaintiff in error proceeded with full knowledge of the facts,
but it underestimated the strength of its cause, and if that
were sufficient to warrant the bringing of a second and inconsistent action the result would be to confine the defense of election of remedies to cases where the first suit
had been won by plaintiff and to deny itin all cases where
plaintiff had lost. But the election was determined by
the bringing and maintenance of the suit, not by the final
disposition of the case by the court. See for example
Bolton Mines Co. v. Stokes, 82 Md. 50, 59.
The distinguishing feature of the instant case is that
after the coming in of the answer, pleading the statute of
limitations, and the plain warning thus conveyed of the
danger of continuing the equity suit further, the plaintiff
in error persisted in pursuing it to final judgment, instead
of promptly reforming the cause or dismissing the bill
and seeking the alternative remedy not subject to the
same defense. The doctrine of election of remedies and
that of res adjudicataare not the same, but they have this
in common, that each has for its underlying basis the
maxim which forbids that one shall be twice vexed for one
andthe same cause. The policy embodied in this maxim
we think requires us to hold that the plaintiff in error, in
bringing the original suit, and in continuing after the plea
in bar to follow it to a final determination, made an irrevocable election, and that it is now estopped from maintaining the present inconsistent action.
Question No. 1 is somewhat ambiguous but taken in'
connection with the facts, it is clear that what the Circuit

302
BRANDEIS,

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
J., TArr, Ch. J., and

HOLMES, J.,

dissenting. 260 U. S.

Court of Appeals desires to know. is whether the action at
law by the United States to recover the value of lands, the
title to which was fraudulently obtained, is barred for the
reason that the United States, with knowledge of the fraud,
had previously prosecuted, upon the same facts, a suit in
equity to final judgment of dismissal rendered on the
ground that the suit was barred by the statute of limitations? This question we answer in the affirmative, and, as
this disposes of the case, n answer to question No. -2 is
required.
It will be so certified.
MR. JusrIcE. BRANDEIS dissenting, with whom THE
CHiE1, JuSTIcE and Mn. JusTicE. HOLMES concur.
The general rule that statutes of limitation do not run
against the. United States often works hardship. The rule
proved so oppressive when applied to proceedings to annul
patents -to land, that Congress erected for such suits the
six-year bar. Act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, § 8, 26 Stat.
1095, 1099. In Exploration Co:, Limited, v. United States,
247 U. S. 435, the act was construed to mean that the six
years do not begin to run until the cause of action is discovered. This statute did not in terms extend the bar to
the Government's remedy at law. United States v.
Whited & Wheless, 246 U. S. 552, held that the law gave
two remedies to protect the single right, and that the Act
of 1891 left intact the remedy at law for deceit practiced
in securing the patent. The Court, therefore, permitted
recovery at law, although the remedy in equity had been
barred.
The fraud here-involved was practiced in connection
with the acquisition of land patented in 1900. To obtain
redress the Government brought in 1912 a bill in equity to
annul the patent. Defendants pleaded the statutory bar.
The Government might then have dismissed its bill; and
if it had done so, it could then unquestionably have coin-

UNITED STATES v. OREGON LUMBER CO.
200

303

:BRANDEIS, J., TAFr, Ch. J., and HOL AES, J., dissenting.

menced an action at law for deceit.' Or, the Government
might, under the Act of March 3, 1915, c. 90, 38 Stat. 956,
and Equity Rule 22, have then had the case transferred to
the law side of the court, and have thus freed itself from
the possibility of a statutory bar. It did not do either.
Instead, it proceeded to a hearing in the equity suit; presumably, because it considered the legal remedy inadequate and believed that it could establish its right to pur.sue the equitable remedy by showing that the fraud had
been discovered within the six years. In this the Government proved to be mistaken. The court found that the
United States had full knowledge of the matters complained of more than six years before the suit was begun,
and -for that reason could not have the relief sought in
equity. Even then-after the adverse decision but before
entry of a decree-it was not too late to transfer the pending suit to the law side of the court, and to proceed there
with the action for deceit. Such a transfer, after full hearing on the merits and a decision that relief in equity could
not be had, was made without loss of any right in Friederichsen v. Renard, 247 U. S. 207. But the Government
made no such application; the court entered a decree dismissing the bill; and no appeal was taken. Then, in 1918,
the Government brought the present action at law. The
question now presented for decision is whether it had lost
the right to do so.
The thing adjudged in the equity case was solely that
the fraud had been discovered by the Government more
than six years before the commencement of the suit; and
that, for this reason, the patent could not be annulled.
There was no adjudication of the Government's substantive right. And since it had two remedies to protect that
right, and the fact found is not a bar to an action at law,
no suggestion is made that the decree of dismissal bars
this iction as res judicata. There is likewise no suggesSee Bistline v. United States, 22 ) Fed. 546.

304
BRANDEIS,

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
J., TAFT, Ch. J., and HoLMES, J., dissenting. 260 U. S.

tion of an estoppel in pai%.. Nor is there a suggestion that
by proceeding to a hearing in the equity suit, or by failing to ask that the. ease be transferred to the law side of
the court, the Government subjected defendants to any
annoyance or expense, other than that necessarily incilent to unproductive litigation. The remedy at law is
Jenied solely on the ground that the so-called doctrine of
election of remedies applies; that the Government had
two remedies; that the two remedies were 'inconsistent;
that when the statutory- bar was pleaded in equity, the
plaintiff was obliged, at its peril; to make a final choice
betweeni the two remedies; and that since it selected the
one which provedJnot .to be available, it shall have no
remedy whatSoever.
The doctrine Aof election of remedies is not a rule of substantive law. It is a rule of procedure-or judicial administration. It is technical; and, as applied in some jurisdictions, has often sacrificed substantial right to supposed
legal consistency.' The doctrine has often been invoked
in: this Court, but never before successfully. Its existence
has been recognized; but in every case in which the question presented was actually one of election of remedies,
this Court held that the doctrine did not apply; giving
as a reason that one or the other of its essential elements
was absent. These essentials are that the party, must
have actually had two remedies and that the remedy in
question must be inconsistent with the other previously
invoked. Here- neither of these essential elements was
present.
"The Goveinmerft did not have a remedy in equity when
the suit to annul the patent was begun or at any time
thereafter. That, this is true was established by the de'See Election of Remedies, A Criticism, by Charles P. Hine, 26
Harv.,Law Rev. 707; Election between Alternative Remedies byWalter -Hussey Griffith; 16 Law Quar.. Rev. 160; ibid. by J. F. W.
Galbraith, 16 Law Quar. Rev. 269.

UNITED STATES v. OREGON LUMBER CO.
290

BRANDEIS,

305

J., TArr, Ch.J., and HOLMES, J., dissenting.

cree in the equity suit. The Government's alleged choice
of the equitable remedy was, therefore, "not an election
but an hypothesis." Northern Assurance Co. v. Grand
View Building Association, 203 U. S. 106, 108; William W.
Bierce, Limited, v. Hutchin, 205 U. S. 340, 347. For "it
is impossible to conceive of a right of election in a case
where no such right existed." Friendv. Talcott, 228 U. S.
27, 37, 38. Thus, the mere fact that the remedy first invoked was at the time unavailable precludes application
of the doctrine. The reason why it was unavailable is
immaterial. A party is equally free to try another remedy, whether the earlier proceeding was futile because of
inability to establish assumed facts essential to, the existence of the remedy then pursued or because the assumed facts did not as matter of law entitle him to the
relief sought.' In the Northern Assurance Case, supra,
the earlier action at law was held not to be an election,
because the facts there relied on could not be proved. In
the Bierce Case, supra, filing an earlier lien suit was held
not to be an election, because one cannot have a lien on
one's own property. In Friederichsenv. Renard, supra,
suing to set aside the conveyance was not an election,
because the right to rescind had been lost. In Southern
Pacific Co. v. Bogert, 250 U. S. 483, 490, 491, the earlier
unsuccessful suits were not an election because facts there
essential could not be established. So, in the case at bar,
because the equitable remedy theretofore invoked was
not in fact available to the Government, its right to pro1

Barnsdall v. Waltemeyer, 142 Fed. 415, 420; Water, Light & Gas

Co. v. Hutchinson, 160 Fed. 41, 43; Harrill v. Davis, 16S Fed.
187, 195; Brown v. Fletcher, 182 Fed. 963, 971-974; Rankin v. Tygard, 198, Fed. 795, 806; Union Central Life Ins. Co. v. Drake, 214
Fed. 536, 548; Agar v. Winslow, 123 Cal. 587, 590; Capital City Bank
v, Hilson, 64 Fla. 206; Asher v. Pegg, 146 Iowa,* 541, 543; IHillerich
v. Franklin Ins. Co., 111 Ky. 255; Clark v. Heath, 101 Me. 530;
Wilson v. Knapp, 143 Mich. 64; Kelsey v.Agricultural Ins. Co., 78
N. J. Eq. 378, 383.
45646*-23-20

306,

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.

BRAND.Is, J., TA&r, Ch. J , and HOLMYES, J., disenting. 260 U. S.

ceed at law was not lost, under the doctrine of election of
remedies.'
Moreover, an action at law for deceit is not inconsistent
with a prior unsuccessful suit to annul the patent. This
case must not be confused i ith those in which it has been
held that a prior action at law on a contract, or other proceeding arising out of it, bars a later suit to rescind; as
where an action on a purchase ioney note has been held
to bar a later suit by the vendor to set aside the conveyance for fraud. There, -the reason why the conveyance
cannot be set aside is that' by suing at law the vendor
exercises his option to affirm the voidable transaction, and
cannot thereafter disaffirm it. In so doing he makes a
choice of substantive rights. But where the vendor's first
attempt to obtain redress was by way of rescission, and
there was in fact then no right to rescind, his substantive
rights have not been changed.' This is the situation presented in the case ai bar. The Government said, in effect:
"We wish to rescind and get back the land; but if the
facts, or the law are such that we cannot rescind, then we
wish to recover damages for the deceit." Certainly that is
not taking inconsistent "positions. See United States v.
Whited & Wheless, supra, pp. 562, 564. Indeed, an action
for damages might be permissible as a supplemental remedy even if the equitable relief had been granted' For
annulling the patent may fail to give the Government
'In Strong v. Strong, 102 N. Y. 69, 73, an earlier proceeding to
rescind was held not--to be an election, because by reason of laches
and lack of tender there was then no right to rescind.
'Zimmerman v. Robinson & Co., 128 Iowa, 72; Marshallv. Gilman,
52 Minn. 88, 97; Tullos v. Mayfield, 198 S. W. 1073 (Tex. Civ. App.);
Griffin v. Williams, 142 S. W. 981 (Tex. Civ. App.) Compare McGibbon v. Schmidt, 172 Cal. 70; Glover v. Radford, 120 Mich. 542,
544; Freeran v. Fehr, 132 Minn. 384, 388. Sbe Cohoon v. Fisher,
146 Ind. 5B3; Conrow v. Little, 115 N. Y. 387.
'See Ctockett v. Miller, 112 Fed. 729, 736; Lenox v. Fuller, 39
Mich. 268, 273.

UNITED STATES v. OREGON LUMBER CO.
290

307

BRANDEIS, J., TAFr, Ch. J., and HOLMES, J., dissenting.

full 'relief. The land may have been stripped, meanwhile, of its trees or its mineral; or the deceit may have
involved the Government in expenses which are .recoverable. It is true that under such circumstances equity, if
it annulled the patent, would probably retain the cause to
award recovery for all damages as suffered. But it might
leave the vendor to his remedy at law; and conversely the
vendor might, if he chose, limit his suit in equity to the
recovery of the property. In either event he could recover
his damages at law. Compare Brady v. Daly, 175 U. S.
148, 161; Thomas v. Sugarman, 218 U. S. 129; Zimmerman v. Harding, 227 U. S. 489, 493. There is, therefore,
lacking here inconsistency of remedies; and for that reason, also, the doctrine of election of remedies does not
apply.
There are some cases in this Court, earlier than those
discussed above, in which the doctrine of election of remedies was referred to when denying the relief sought. But
in those cases, of which Robb.v. Vos, 155 U. S. 13, is Ian
example, relief was not denied because of a previous election of an inconsistent remedy. The party failed because
he had theretofore made a choice of an alternative substantive right; as where one by his conduct ratifies and
makes valid an unauthorized transdction otherwise void.
In such cases the mere fact that the conduct relied upon
consisted, in whole, or in part, of legal proceedings, is of
no legal significance in this connection. 1
1

Thus in Robb v. Vos, 155 U. S. 13, 34, 39, the question was

whether Robb and Strong, trustees, by filing an answer and cross
petition in another suit had ratited Kebler's want of authority, and
therefore made the title of Vos and Stix to the land in question good.
In Van Winkle v. Crowell, 146 tT. S. 42, 51, the commencement of a
suit to enforce a mechanics' lien was an election to treat the title to
property sold under conditional sale as having passed to the purchaset. In Stuart v. Hayden, 169. U. S. 1, commencement'of an action
which wa deemed in effect an action for the purchase price, was

308

-OCTOBER TERM, 1922.

BArnEms, J., TAFr, Ch. J., and HoLUES, J.* dissenting. o260 U. S.

Because the Government had, as now appears, no remedy except the action at law for deceit, and also because
this remedy -isnot inconsistent with, an earlier vain attempt to rescind, a denial. of the right to prosecute the
present action cannot,' consistently with the earlier-decisions of this Court, rest upon the doctrine of election of
remedies. Support for the denial is sought in the fact
that the Government-did not abandon its futile attempt
to annul the patent, when it was advised by the defendants' answer that they proposed to rely upon the statu-.
tory bar. But it is well settled that a party may disregard
such a warning. if he deems it doubtful whidh one of
several, possible course's will lead to relief he may (even
where the courses are inconsistent) follow one to defeat;
and still pursue .thereafter another remedy until he ultimately finds the one which will afford him redress; provided always that the facts do not create an equitable
estoppel.1 .There is, of course, no suggestion here' that the
'held to have ratified a sale of real estate, which the plaintiff later
attempted to rescind. -InPeters v. Bain, 133 U. S. 670, 683, 695, it
was held that there, was no election of remedies. Green v. Bogue,
158 U. S. 478, was a case of res judicata. In Dickson v. Patterson,
160 U. S. 584, 588, 592, there was only one remedy involved. The
question was whether plainitiff had elected to ratify. the transaction
after knowledge of the fraud. In Dahn v* Davis, 258 U. S. 421, the
question was one of §tatutory 'construction; namiely, whether an
employee injured'during federal control of the railroad had .a.
right to
compensation punder both the Employers' Liability Act and tHld Compensation Act, or only-under one. 'Strong v. Strong, 102 N. Y. 69, 73; Henry v. Herrington, 193
N. Y.'218; Snow v. Alley, 156 Mass. 193, 195; Clark v,Heath, 101
Me: 530; Wilson v. Knapp, 143-Mich. 64; Glover v. Radford, 120
Mich. 542, 544; Sullivan v. Ross' Estate, 113 Mich. 311, 319; Lenox v.
Fuller, 39 IMich. 268; Marshallv. Gilman, 52 Minn. 88, 97; Garrett
v. Farwell Co., 199 Ill. 436; Zimmerman v. Robinson & Co., 128
Io~va, 72;- American Pwe Food Co. v. Elliott & Co., 151 N. Car.
393; Tullos v. Mayfield, 198. S. W. 1073 (Tex. Civ. App.); Griffin v.
Williams, 142 S. W. 981 (Tex. Civ. App.); Rankin v. Tygard, 198
Fed. 795.,

BOSTON v. JACKSON.
290

309

Syllabus.

Government acted in bad faith in refusing to abandon the
equitable remedy until the trial court had decided the
issue of knowledge against it. The Government gained
nothing, the defendants lost nothing, by the bringing of
the futile suit in equity to annul the patent. However
stupid or stubborn a party may have been, he is not
deprived of the right to try another remedy; for whatever
the cause of his earlier futile attempt, his failure proves
him to have been mistaken. To hold that this action for
deceit is barred, because the Government did not dismiss
the earlier equity suit when it was advised by the answer
that the statutory bar would be relied on, lays down a rule
new in this Court,--a rule inconsistent with the principles
heretofore established and opposed to a long line of well
considered decisions in state courts. To do this seems to
me regrettable.
CITY OF BOSTON v. JACKSON, TREASURER
,AND RECEIVER GENERAL OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 141. Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted November 13, 1922.Decided December 4, 1922.
1. Upon review here of a state judgment, an order of the state
Supreme Court substituting the successor of a state official as a
party is accepted as a conclusive determination that the state law
authorized the substitution, P.,313.
2. Where the state court justffiably construed the bill as standing
for further relief after a particular tax, sought to be enjoined, had
been collected and paid over, this Court will accept its view that
the piyment did not Tender the litigation moot. P. 3i3.
3. Under paragraph 5 of Rule 6"of this Court, a judgment will be
affirmed on motion when, in view of previous decisions, the questions presented by the plaintiff ifi error are so wanting in substance
as.not to need further argument. P.-314.

-

