60

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Ca.sb.

260 U. S.

FREUND ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. FREUND ET AL.
-APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 29, 37.

Argued October 5, 6, 1922.1-Decided November 13,
1922.
LI1
Broad provisions in a -government contradt, authorizing the Government to change the obligations imposed on the dther party
should be interpreted, -not as permitting government officials to
remould the contract at will, but as confined to what was fairly
and reasonably within the contemplation of the parties when the
contract was made. P. 62.
2. Where a contractor ,undertook a circuit mail-carriage service
from and back to a city post-office site via scheduled stations, with
stops en route to collect mail from letter carriers, to be paid for
at so much for every mile traveled, a stipulation in the contract
authorizing the Postmaster General to establish service to and
from like, offices, stations, etc., to those named in the-schedules,
to be paid for at the contract rate per mile of travel, did not
authorize substitution of a much heavier service, in transporting all mail between railroad stations and another post-office site,
involving increased equipment and expense, and paid for at the
same mileage rate but without counting trips on which no mail
was carried. P. 64,
3. Contractors who were encouraged by agents of the Post Office
Department to enter into a mail-carriage contract and give A
heavy bond, without notice of the Department's purpose to substitute a more onerous service under color of the contract but not
within its terms, and who performed the new service, under protest, rather than incur the risk to themselves and their bondsmen
of throwing up the contract, held, not to have acquiesced in the"
change. P. 68.
4. A mail-carriage contractor who, under duress of the Post Office
Department,, performs service not called for by his contract, *is
entitled to recover, in the Court of Claims, the reasonable value
of such service, including a fair profit. P. 69.
.56 Ct. Chms. 15, reversed.
APPEALS

from a judgment allowing, in part, a claim for

service in carrying the mails.

FREUND v. UNITED STATES.
60

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. William R. Hair,with whom Mr. Charles H. Bates
was on the brief, for Freund et al.
Mr. A. A. Wheat, with whom Mr. Solicitor General
Beck and Mr. William C. Herron were on the brief, for
the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit against the Government to recover
$34,012.90 as the remainder unpaid of an amount earned
by 16 months' service in carrying the mails by wagons in
the City of St. Louis. After official advertisement, a bid
was made by appellants April 4, 1911, and accepted April
20, 1911, for service on a particular route described by
a schedule, for a certain annual gross sum, which, being
divided by the miles to be covered, made a certain rate
per mile. A contract was signed May 22nd. The contract was for four years, beginning July 1, 1911. The
route was for seven daily circuit trips from and back to
the new St. Louis Post Office. That office was not. ready
for occupancy on July 1, 1911, or for 16 months thereafter,
and the old Post Office, which was thirteen blocks from
the new one, continued to be used.. The, Post Office
Department, relying on certain clauses in the contract,
and upon a notice given to bidders, substituted another
route and ordered the contractor to begin performance
on July lst at what the Department held to be the same
rate per mile of service. The contractors protest, but,
threatened with suit upon their bond, performed the
service and accepted periodical payments on the new
route until October 28, 1912, the date of occupying the
new Post Office, when the route bid upon. and contracted
for was initiated and the contractors did the work under
it till the term ended. Thd cost to the contractors of
doing the work on the substitute route was $43,726.89,

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

and they were paid-by, the Government $24,289.62,. Thus
their loss was in round numbers $19,500 during the 16
months of the substituted route. After October 12, 1912,
on the original route, the contractors made a profit of 42
" per cent. on its cost in what remained of the term.
The contractors' claim was that the subsfitution of the
new route for the one they bid on was not within the
terms of the contract, but was unconscionable, and that
they were entitled to recover for the work done on the
new route on a quantum meruit. The Court of Claims
held that it was not necessary to determine whether the
new route was properly substituted for the old, because
the contractors had acquiesced in this view by their performance, but that the Government had not, in adapting
the mileage rate of the original route under the contract
to the new route, done justice to the contractors in the
number of miles allowed, and on this basis gave judgment
for $7,346.66. From this the contractors appealed. The
Government brings a cross appeal, claiming that, as the
contractors accepted full pay under the contract as construed and expressed by the Department, they should
recover nothing.:
It is, of course, wise and necessary that government
agents in binding their principal-in contracts for construction or service should make provision for alterations
in the plans, or changes in the service, within the four
corners of the contract, and thus avoid the presentation
of unreasonable claims for extras.. This court has recognized that necessity and enforced various provisions to
which it has given rise. But sometimes-such contract provisions have been interpreted and enforced by executive
officials as if they enabled those officers to remould the
contract at will. The temptation of the bureau to adopt
such clauses arises out of the fact that they avoid the
necessity -of labor, foresight and care in definitely drafting
the contract, and reserve power in the bureau. This does

FREUND V: UNITED STATES.
60

.63

Opinion of the Court.

not make for justice; it promotes the possibility of official
favoritism as between contractors, and results in enlarged
expenditures, because it increases the prices which contractors, in view of the added risk, incorporate in their
bids for government contracts. These considerations,
especially the first, have made this Court properly attentive to any language or phrase of these enlarging provisions which may be properly held to limit their application to what should be regarded as having been fairly and
reasonably, within the contemplation of the parties when
the contract was entered into. These observations are
justified and illustrated by decisions of this Court in
United States v. Utah, Nevada & CaliforniaStage Co.,
199 U. S. 414, and Hunt v. United States, 257 U. S. 125.
The Court of Claims, after giving the two schedules in
full, sums up the contrast between them as follows:
"The service bid upon was a circuit service on seven
circuits, on a mileage basis, each circuit beginning 2nd
ending at the new post office and for which the contractor
was paid for every mile traveled regardless of the quantity of mail carried or whether for any part of the distance
no mail was carried. The restated service [i. e', on the
new route] was a trip service for which payment was
made on a mileage basis when mail was carried, but no
payment was made for a return trip if mail was not carried or for distance traveled by empty vehicles in going
to a point from which mail was to be moved.
"The service bid upon involved the handling of the
mails for a small area and was a comparatively light
service. The restated service required the hauling of
incoming and outgoing mails for the entire city and involved handling several times the weight of mail. The
service bid on required 6 automobiles. The restated
service required 18 wagons of different capacity exceeding
several times in aggregate capacity that required for the
bid on service. The mileage of each wagon when carrying

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

mail, was allowed and paid for. The larger bulk of mail
required proportionately more time in loading and un]kadiiig.
':...
"'The bid upon service, with the exceptibn of one early
trip oni each of these circuits, was all to be performed
within 12 hours -from approximately 8 A. M. to 8 P. M.
The restated service required trips during practically
everyhour of the twenty-four."
By a note in the advertisement, by paragraph ten in
the contract, and by a further somewhat more 'elaborate
stipulation in the contract, provision was. made for
changes.- The last contained all that was in the others,
"
3nd was as follows: - - ": It is hereby stipulated and agreed'by the said contractors and their sureties that the Postmaster General may
change the schedule, vary,' increase, or decrease the trips
on this route, or extend the trips to any. new location of
the-post offices, railroad stations, steamboat landings, mail
stations, or points of exchange-with cable or electric cars
named in the schedule for service for said route, in said
advertisement, 'establish service to and from like offices,
stations, landings, or points not named therein, and vary,
increase, or 'decrease the trips thereto, and discontiue
service between any, of the post offices, railroad stations.
steamboat landings, mail- stations, or points of exchange
with electric or cable cars, or between any of them: Provided, That for any increase -or decrease in the service
authorized by the Second Assistant Postmaster General,
the pay of the contractors shall be increased or decreased,
as the. case may be, at the rate per mile of travel agreed
to be paid for service under this contract, as shown by
the annual rate of 'compensation, and the annual miles
cf travel, based on the frequency and distances shown in
the schedule of service for said route in said adveriisement." .
There are two limitations in this very broad provision
which' deser'-e notice. One is that the offices, stations,

FREUND v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

60

landings and points, not named in the schedule, to and
froni which the Postmaster General was permitted to
establish service, were to be like those named in the
schedule, and the other is that the substituted service was
to be such that the method of fixing pay in the original
contract could be applied to it. Now it is clear to us that
the substituted route did not establish a route to like stations and points. The findings give the two schedules
and we reproduce them in the margin.- An examination
1

Route No-.445004. (Mileage basis)-Regulationscreen-wagon service at St. Louis, Mo.--Mail-station service.

From-

CircuitNo.l:
Post Office

(newsite).

Circuit No.2:
Post. Office
(naw site).
Circuit No.3:
Post Office
(new site).
Circuit No. 4:
Post Office

(new site).

Circuit No. 5.

Post Office
(iiew site).

Circuit No. 6:
Post Office

(new site).

Circuit No. 7:
Post Office

(new site).
I

By-

To-

NumTo
ber of Numtis ber ofm
Runt ipsf
Distance. except
trips =
Sun Sundy
.
day day. d-ia
()
(306).

Central Sta-I Post office (new site)
and 4 stops per trip
tion (old
en route to receive
post ofce).
mailcollectlonsfrom
letter carriers.
office (new site)
Cpples and Post
and I stop,per trip
erchants
en route to receive
stations.
mail collectionsfrom
letter carriers.
Progress and Post office (new site)
and 7 stops per trip
Bridge staen route to receive
tions.
mailcollectlonsfrom
letter carriers.
office (new site)
Post
Cupples and
and 6 stops per trip
1erchants
en route to receive
stations.
mailcollectflons from
letter carriers.
office (new slto)
Post
Merchants
and 2 steps per trip
and Central
en route to receive
(old post
mal collections frooffice) staletter carriers.
tions.
Bridge and Post office (now site)
and 2 stops per trip
Progress staen route to receive
tionss
nailcollectionsfrom
letter carriers.
Progress Sta- Post office (new site)
and 5 stops per trip
tion.
en route to receive
mal collectionsfrom
letter carriers.

(Footnote codinued on p. 66.)
456460-23------5

25

30

30

30

30

OCTOBER, TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

-

shows that the one was a light service of circuits from the
Post Office and back again to take up coll ections from
,(Footnote continued from p. 65.)
S POSTOFFICE DEPARTMENT,
'SECOND

APSSISTANT POSTMASTER GENERAL,

"Washington, June 30, 1911.
St. Louis,' Mo.
"Sm: 'An order has b'een issued t-o-day onroute No. 445004, screenwagon -service at St. Louis, Mo., restating the service from July 1,
- IQ11, making total, annual travel 57,679.60 miles and pay $18.265.61
per-anhum, being -pro-rata-of original -contract price;..
"POSTMASTER,

-

-

Goo ................

Union Depot ..........

1.18

Union Depot. .......

GPO ...... ........
-United
Rys.-of-St.Louis -(8th
and Mar-

1.18

GPO...................
United Rys. olSt. Louis
(~th and Market)
GPO.,.............
United Ry.of St. Louis
th and Locust)
PO......
.~.......

-

ket) ....
GPO .............

0.21

0.21

Uniied Rys. of St.
Louis (SthandLocust)
GPO. ...........

0.09
0.80

Cupples ta.........

Cupples st..e.........
GPO ....... ......

GPO.

Marant S

0.50

.............

Merchantst ..........

........

0.09
0.50

GPO ...................
0.50

djOPv& Merchants Sta. Bridge Sta.,........

0.76

Bridge Sta: via MerP.chtuts
Sts.........
'0P0.
.............
.

0.76

PO.............
-Bridge S.

No. of
trips
on
Simda

Additional
tripsa
week
(52).

711....
37
71., Hoidays (7).
32 .................
25
32. Holidays (7).

4

No. of trips daily
ft,
Lensh
excet-Sundas
and holidays
(306).

/--To

Prom---,

........

0.60

23.

Holidays (7).

31................
12. Holidays (7).

.4

8..................
I
3. Holidays (7).
10 ..................
5. Holidays (7).
10.1 ......................
5., Holidays (7).
9.. . .....
4. Holidays (7).
9...................
5. , Holidays (7).
2.............
......
1. Holiday (7).

2. Holidays (7).

Bridge St,.............

GPO.............

Go o...............

Holidays (7).
Progress... ...........
0.70 8 1........
......(7).
4. Holidays
GPO, ..........
0.70 8 ......
3. Holidays (7).- -Annex Sta.........
0.60 2 ................ .......
GPO .............
0.76 2............
.......
2. Holidays (7 .
......
Annex St
0.50 3 ...................
0.O9
Annex Sta.....
2 ...............

Progress. ..........
ProgresSta............
Merchants Sta. via
Bridge Sta.
18tb and Olive (848001)
18M and Clark (348001)

0.60

"Respectfully,
"(Signed)

JOSEPH STEWART,

''Second Assistant Postmaster General."

2

FREUND v. UNITED STATES.
60

Opinion of the Court.

letter carriers. The other was the heavy work of transporting all the arriving and departing mail of the city
from the railway stations to the old Post Office and back
again. On the one, the contractors received pay for every
mile traveled. On the other, the pay was made dependenat
on the carriage of mail and no empty trips of going or
returning were included in the mileage paid for although
the schedule made many of them necessary. It is impossible, therefore, save by forcing, to adapt the rate ter mile
of one route to the other. What has-been said shows how
different was the equipment needed, how variant the tonnage carried, what disparity between the hours of readiness required, and the differing methods of- calculating
compensation. This substituted route was undoubtedly
necessary in the transportation of mails in the City of
St. Louis, but it was for a different purpose from that of
the original route. The Department merely took advantage of general words in the appellants' contract to meet
an emergency presented by the delay in finishing the new
Post Office and the refusal of another contractor to continue this indispensable service beyond his term, to thrust
this-entirely new task upon the appellants here.
It is sought in the argument for the Government to
distinguish this case from the Stage Company Case and
the Hunt Case, on the ground that in them the compensation was for a lump sum, and the new work required was
not to be paid for -at all, while here the additional or
variant work was to be done at a rate of so many cents per
mile. We do not think this is a real difference. The radical change made in the character of the work to be done
on the substituted route and the wholly inadequate price
to be paid for it as found by the Court of Claims make
the injustice just as clear as in. the cited cases. We hold
that the substitution of the new route and schedule for
the one bid upon Was not within the terms of the contract.

68

OCTOBER.TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

But it is said that, in view of the attitude of the Government, the conduct of the contractors constituted such
an acceptance of the new route as within 'the original
contract as to rebut any implication of a different contract
for a reasonable price on the part of the Government.
Consideration of this argument requires a review of the
circumstances.. The findings show that the advertisement
for bids referred bidders to the city postmaster for any
additional information concerning the matter, and that
he advised these contractors when they doubted whether
they could get their equipment ready by July 1st, that
the new Post Office could not be completed at that time,
that the work bid for could not begin' then, and that the
Department would take care of the situation. They,
thereupon, made their bid, accompanying it as required
with a bond for $25,000. The bid was accepted by the
Department With a-°special notice as to the necessity of
being ready with-equipment July 1st, and enclosing the'
contract. The city postmaster being applied to again by
the anxious bidders, assured them that the matter would
be adjusted in due timeand urged them to sign the contract. Accordingly, on May 22nd, the contractors signed
and, on May 23rd, forwarded the contract to the Department with a request for extension of time. This was
denied, and on application to the Department June 20th
for relief because of the assurance 'of the postmaster, they
were told that they would be given a substituted route
then in the course of preparation. They objected that
they could not prepare for this substituted route which
as already said was a mere continuance of old service by
another contractor. They were told that they must be
ready for the restated route at the time appointed and on
June 30th they were furnished with a schedule of the new
service. The contractors protested to the Second Assistant .Postmaster General, to the postmaster at St. Louis
and to: one Porter, a-representative of the Department at

FREUND v. UNITED STATES.
60

Opinion of the Court.

St. Louis, saying that they were not required to perform
this service by the terms of the contract because it was
entirely different from that contemplated; and that they
would be ruined financially. Porter, whose authority is
not otherwise shown, told them that his business was to
see that the service commenced on July 1st, and if they
did not begin, the contract would be readvertised and
they would be sued on their bond. The contractors then
hired the equipment and outfit of the old contractor, with
the result already stated that they lost $19,500 in 16
months.
We think -that there was no acceptance of the new
route under the circumstances which would bar a recovery
for what the services were reasonably worth. The Hunt
Case was not a stronger case than this; and in the Stage
Company Case the right to recover for work not properly and legally included in the contract was not even
questioned, although in both cases the work demanded
was done and periodical payments accepted. It is said on
behalf of the Government that those cases are to be distinguished from this because the contractor was in the
midst of his work under his contract and he could not be
expected'to throw it up with all the uncertainties and
certain losses he would sustain, while here the contractors had not begun work or extended preparation. But
while the cases are different, the difficulties faced by the
contractors here were quite as formidable. They had been
nursed into making the bid and giving the bond by the
assurance as to the possible date of beginning the contract by the postmaster to whom they had been officially
referred for information. They thus became bound under
their bond to sign and complete the contract before they
had been otherwise adyised as to the actual date when
their service would begin. At the time the contract was
executed, the Department had formed the purpose to
thrust on the contractors this burdensome route; but it

70..

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

did not advise them of it until ten, days before July 1st,
and, indeed, did n6t'give them the exact schedule until
the day before they were to begin it. Then the only
course open to them 'was either to engage the old contractor's equipment at a heavy loss or throw up the original contract and run the risk of the Government's reletting at a higher bid. and charging the possible heavy difference in cost to it-against them on their bond for a fiveyear contract. We can not ignore the suggestion of
duress' there was in the situation or the questionable
fairness of the conduct of the Government, aside from
the illegality of the construction of the contract insisted
on, and have no difficulty, therefore, in distinguishing
this case from the so-called Railroad Mail Cases (Eatem R.-R. Co. v. United States, 129 U. S. 391; Chicago,
Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. United States, 198 U. S.
385; Atchison, Topeka & Santa,Fe Ry. Co. v. Uinited
States, 225 U. S. 640;- New York, New.Haven & Hartford
R. R. Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 123; and New York,
New Haven & Hartford R. R. Co. V. -UnitedStates, 258
U. S. 32), which are cited on' behalf of thle United States.
We think that the contractors are' entitled to recover
the' reasonable value of 'their services for the 16 months
including a fair profit..
This relieves us- of considering the conclusion-reached
by the Court of Claims.
The judgment is reversed,' the cross appeal of the
United States is dismissed, and the case is remanded to
the Court of Claims, with directions to" fnd the value of
the services rendered'by appellants on the substituted or
restated route including a fair profit, and to enter judgment for 'the balance found due.
Reversed.

