JEEMS BAYOU CLUB v. UNITED STATES. 561
Statement of the Case.

JEEMS BAYOU FISHING & HUNTING CLUB ET
AL v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. JEEMS BAYOU HUNTING &
FISHING CLUB ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

-

Nos. 119 and 137. Argued November 21, 22, 1922.-Decided January 2, 1923.
1. The rule that where lands are patented according to an official
plat, showing meander lines along or near the margin of a body of
water, the plat is to be treated as part of the conveyance and the
water itself constitutes the boundary, does not apply when it is
conclusively shown that no body of water exists or existed at or
near the place indicated or where no attempt to survey tracts lying
beyond the meander line was actually made. P. 564.
2. The United States can not be estopped to question the existence
of a survey by statements made in correspondence by officials of
the Land Department. P. 564.
3. Defendants who took possession of land in Louisiana and extracted oil, in good faith, under a patent which had long been
erroneously treated by government officials as conveying the tract,
are liable, as innocent trespassers, for the value of the oil after
deducting the cost of drilling and operating the wells. P. 564.
See Maso7i v. United States, ante, 545.
274 Fed. 18, affirmed.
APPEAL

and cross appeal from a decree of the Circuit

Court of Appeals affirming a decree of the District Court
in a suit by the United States to quiet its title to a tract
of public land, enjoin trespasses and secure an accounting for oil wrongfully extracted.
Mr. Harry T. Klein and Mr. Hampden Story, with
whom Mr..Elias Goldstein and Mr. H. C. Walker were
on the brief, for Jeems Bayou Fishing & Hunting Club
et al.
45646°023--3

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S..

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, with whom Mr.
Solicitor General Beck was on -the brief, for the United
States.
MR. JusTI'E SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of theCourt.
The United States brought suit in equity in the District
Court of the United States for the'Western Distriet of
Louisiana, against the defendants (appellants and cross appellees here) to have its title to 85.22 acres of land in the'
Parish of Caddo, Louisiana, confirmed, possession restored, assertion of claims thereto by defendants enjoined,
and an accounting had for the value of oil removed therefrom by the defendants, or any of them.
That court, upon the report of a master, entered a decree for the plaintiff and awarded damages for the value
of the oil removed, after deducting the cost of drilling and
operating the wells by means of which the oil was recovered.
The case is here by appeal from the decree of the Circuit
Court, of Appeals, affirming that. of the District Court.
274 Fed. 18.
The Fishing & Hunting Club claimed title through
mesne conveyances from one Stephen D. Pitts, to whom
a patent had been issued in 1860 for the southwest, fractional quarter of Section 10, in Township twenty North,
Range' 16 West, "according to' the official plat of the
survey of said lands, returned to the General Land Office
by the Surveyor General." The other defendants depend
upon a lease from the Fishing & Hunting Club to the Producers Oil Company. The official plat referred to in the
Pitts patent .was the plat of a sdrvey made by- A. W.
Warren, in 1839, and approved and filed in the General
Land Office the same year. The fractional quarter section described contained about 48 acres, though the patent
erroneously gave it as 23 acres. The land in question lies

JEEMS BAYOU CLUB v. UNITED STATES. 563
561

Opinion of the Court.

west and south and immediately adjoining, but other
lands still intervene between it and the permanent lake
shore. According to. the plat, the land so patented to
Pitts borders upon Ferry Lake, or Jeems Bayou, a navigable body of .water, and is shown on the plat as a small
peninsula extending into the water and connected by a
narrow neck with the mainland. The evidence, which is
voluminous and substantially uncontroverted, makes it
very clear that no such peninsula exists or existed at the
time of the survey in 1839. On the contrary, a later survey, called an extension survey, made in 1916-1917, shows
that a large compact body of upland, more than 500 acres
in extent, which is, and in 1839 was, well timbered with a
growth of pine, oak and other trees, lies between this supposititious peninsula and the shore line -of the lake in
every direction except for a short distance along.the east
boundary as delineated upon the plat. This body of land
extends beyond the boundaries of Section 10 into the adjoining Sections 9, 15 and 16. Across the lands in controversy, which are included in the larger body just mentioned, the. actual shore line of the lake is, and was. in
1839, from a few hundred feet to three-quarters of a mile
distant from the outside boundaries of the land patented
to Pitts, as shown on the Warren plat.
The Warren field notes describe the peninsular shaped
tract of land, not by lines purporting to meander the mar-.
gin of any body of water but by courses and distances.
There is nothing in the field notes to indicate a water
boundary, unless as a matter of mere inference, which the
most casual inspection of the locality would instantly dissipate. The inaccuracy of the plat is plainly apparent
upon a like inspection. Why Warren made the 'survey
and returned the plat as he did is a matter of speculation
but the facts demonstrate that no survey of the large,
compact body of land.which includes .the tract in controversy, was ever made. The circumstances, as well as the

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

extent and character of the lands, necessitate the conclusion that the omission was of deliberate purpose or the
result of such gross and palpable error as to constitute in
effect a fraud upon the Government.
The defendants rely upon the rule that where lands are
patented according to an official plat of survey, showing
meander lines along or near .themargin of a body of water,
the plat is to be treated as a part of the conveyance and
the water itself constitutes the boundary. The rule is
familiar and has received the approval of this Court many
times. Producers Oil Co. v. Hanzen, 238 U. S. 325, 338,
and cases cited. But it is not absolute, as this Court has
also frequently decided. It will not be applied where, as
here, the facts conclusively show that no body of water
existed or exists ator near the place indicated on -the plat
or where, as here, there never was, in fact, an., attempt
to. survey, the land in controversy.: Security Land & Exploration Co. v. Burns, 19a U. S. 167; Lee Wilson & Co.
v. Uniied States, 245 U. S. 24; Producers Oil Co. v. Hanzen, supra;Horne v. Smith, 159 U. S. 40; French-Glenn
Live Stock Co. v. Springer, 185 U. S. 47; Chapman &
Dewey. Lumber Co.,,v. St. Francis Levee District, 232
,U S. f86.
But it is asserted thatplaintiff is estopped from claiming title to the land because of certain correspondence
with the Commissioner of, the General Land Office, in
1897, wherein that officer said that there, were no unsurveyed lands in the locality inquestion and because of an
official letter frpm the Direaor of the Geological Survey
to the same effect. 'It is clear, however, that the United
States cannot be so estppped(. Lee Wilson& Co. v. United
States, supra; Utah Power & Light Co. v. United States,
243 U. S. 389, 408.
.
- We think the'measure of damages adopted by the courts
-below was correct. The defendants were in possession
of the land and extracted the oil therefrom in good faith.

BALTO. & OHIO R. R. v. UNITED STATES. 565
561

Counsel *for Parties.

The land had been for many years treated by the officials
of the Government as having been conveyed by the Pitts
patent. The defendants were innocent trespassers within
the rule laid down by this Court in United States v. St.
Anthony R. R. Co., 192 U. S. 524, 542. Moreover, the
case is governed in this respect by the more liberal rule
of the Louisiana Civil Code (Article 501), as interpreted
by the decisions of the highest court of that State. Mason
v. United States, ante, 545.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is affirmed.
BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM TlE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 99. Submitted November 16, 1922.-ecided January 2, 1923.
1. An action to recover money paid as stamp taxes under the Act of
May 12, 1900, as amended June 30, 1902, can not be maintained if
no claim for redemption or allowance was made to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue within the two-year period prescribed
by the act. Rev. Stats., § 3226. P. 567.
2. A request to the Commisiioner-for an informal ruling on the taxability of particular deeds, after which stamps were affixed in accordance with the ruling and without-protest, held not a claim
for abatement or refund. P. 567.
56 Ct. Clms. 279, affirmed.

from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing appellant's petition on demurrer.
APPEAL

Mr. George E. Hamilton, Mr. John F. McCarron and
Mr. R. Marsden Smith for appellant.
Mr. golicitor General Beck and Mr. Alfred A. Wheat,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, for the United
States.

