316

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

teenth Amendment. If the constitution and laws of Massachusetts authorize the Commonwealth to operate a railway company for the public benefit, there is nothing in
the Fourteenth Amendment to prevent. Nor is there anything in it preventing the State from using the trustees
as.agents to operate the railway and in such operation to
determine the needed expenditures to comply with the
obligations of the lease or the requirements of adequate
public service. This is delegating to proper agents the
decision of a proper administrative policy in the management of a state enterprise and the ascertainment of facts
peculiarly within their field of authorized action.
In this conclusion, we assume, as did the Supreme Judicial Court, that the State may confer on one of its subdivisions like a city or town the private proprietary'capacity
by which it may acquire contract or property rights protected by the Federal Constitution against subsequent impairment by its creator the State. Mt. Hope Cemetery v.
Boston, 158 Mass. 509. We do not wish to be understood
as accepting such assumption as an established rule. Pawhuska v. Pawhuska Oil & Gas Co., 250 U. S.394. All we
now decide is that even if the City of Boston may involie
the contract clause of the Federal Constitution to protect
its rights under the lease as against infringing legislation
by the Commonwealth, the Act of 1918 does not infringe.
Decree affirmeid.
SOUTHERNRAILWAY COMPANY v. CLIFT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.

No. 107. Argued November 21, 1922.-Decided December 4, 1922.
1. A law declaring that "either party" may file a petition ior rehearing within a stated "time after judgment is not to be construed
as referring to a successful party and does not defer the finality of
the jldgment fo. purposes of review by his adversary. P. 318.

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. CLIFT.
316

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

2. A decision of a state -court disposing of a federal question by
following its decision on a former appeal as the law of the case.
cannot be regarded as resting on the independent, non-federal
ground of res judicata. P. 319.
3. A state law requiring railroads to pay or reject claims for loss or
damage to freight within ninety days of their presentation, under
penalty that, otherwise, the claims shall stand as liabilities due and
payable in their full amount "and recoverable in any court of competent jurisdiction, does not violate the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 320.
131 N. E. 4, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Indiana,
affirming a judgment for damages in an action by Clift
against the Railway Company.
Mr. John D. Welman, with whom Mr. L. E. Jeffries,
Mr. Alexander Pope Humphrey, Mr. Edward P. Humphrey and Mr. Lucius C. Embree were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.
While it may be competent for a State, in the exercise
of police power, to require a carrier to pay a shipper who
has established in a court of justice his claim as demanded, a sum additional to subh clain by way of double
damages or attorney's fees, Atchison, Topeka & Santa
Fe Ry. Co. v. Memphis, 174 U. S. 96; St. Louis, I. M. & S.
Ry. Co. v. Wynne, 224 U. S. 354; or, in order to enforce
the prompt settlement of small claims, to require the
carrier unsuccessfully resisting such claims, to pay a
penalty in the nature of a fixed amount or an attorney's fee, Yazoo & Mississippi Vall'ey R. R. Co. v. Jackson Vinegar Co., 226 U. S. 217; Kansas City Southern
Ry. Co. v. Anderson, 233 U. S. 326; Missouri,K. & T. Ry.
Co. v. Cade, 233 U. S. 642; Missouri, K. & T. Ry. Co. v.
Harris, 234 U. S. 412; yet, in all such cases the carrier
must have had an opportunity to contest in a court of
justice, (1) the validity of the claim; and (2) the amount
demanded; and only in the event that the claimant sue-

.318.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
-Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

ceeds in establishing (1) the justice of his claim; and
(2) the amount as demanded by him prior to.bringing
suit, can the carrier be made liable for'more than the
court adjudges due on the claim. Gulf, Colorado &
Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; St. Louis, L M.
& S. R1y. Co. v. Wynne, 224 U. S. 354; Chicago, M. &
St. P. Ry. Co. v. Polt, 232 U. S. 165; Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Vosburg, 238 U. S. 56.
It is difficult to see how a litigant can receive the equal
protection of the law when he is prohibited, simply on
account of a failure to write a letter, from contesting
the justice of a claim, which has been presented to him,
and from showing, even though the claim is just to a certain amount, it is not just to the extent claimed.
The statute of Indiana here involved makes the mere
failure of a carrier to respond to a demand, conclusive as
against the carrier, both as to the validity of the claim,
and as to the amount demanded.
Mr. Thomas Morton McDonald for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The case is concerned with a statute of Indiana under
Which judgment was obtained against the Railway Company upon a claim for damage to property which it received for transportation within the State.
A motion is made by defendant in error to dismiss the
writ of error, this Court, it is contended, being- without
jurisdiction. The grounds of the motion are specified as
follows: (1) The judgment at the time the transcript was
filed had not become final. (2) It did not decide any
federal question.
To sustain the first ground, it is,
said, that under the
law -of the State, within -sixty days after the termination
of ,the case by the Supreme Court "either party may file a

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. CLIFT.
316

Opinion of the Court.

petition for a rehearing." [Burns' Revision, 1914, ยง 704.]
From this it is deduced and contended that the successful
as well as the unsuccessful party in the action may file a
petition for rehearing and that until the expiration of the
time for the exercise of the right the judgment does not
become final. The contention is curious. Legal procedure is a facility of rights and, rights achieved, its purpose
is done. A successful litigant does not need the delay
and provision of a rehearing. He has more efficient and
enduring relief. His affliction may be solaced by not enforcing the victory which is the cause of it. The contention of defendant in error is-so obviously untenable that
further comment upon it would be the veriestsupexerogation.
In support of the second ground it is pointed out that
the judgment to which the writ of error is directed was
rendered on a second appeal and that the court decided
that the decision " on the first appeal is the law of the
case." It is hence asserted that it was res judicata and
precluded dispute, and that, therefore, the decision rested
upon an independent ground not involving a federal
question and broad enough to. maintain the judgment.
For this Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Ellis, 144 U. S. 458,
464, is cited. That case does not determine this one. That
case was constrained by the law of the State; such constraint does not exist in the present case. The constitutional question involved was considered and decided.
The prior ruling may have been followed as the law of the
case but there is a difference between such adherence and
res judicata; one directs discretion, the other supersedes
it and compels judgment. In other words, in one it is a
question of power, in the other of submission. Remington v. Central Pacific R. R. Co., 198 U. S. 95, 99; Messenger v. Anderson, 225 U. S.436, 444. The court in the
present case, as we have said, considered the constitutional question presented and decided against it, and to

320

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

review its decision is the purpose of this writ of error.
The motion to dismiss is denied.
The-merits of the case are concerned with the validity
of a statute of the State of Indiana passed in 1911 [Acts
1911, c. 183] providing for the presentation of claims for
loss or damage to freight transported wholly within the
State.
A -section of -the act requires the claimant to present
his claim within four months, and another section (3)
prescribes the action and the time of action of the railroad
company. It fs as follows: "That every claim for loss
of or 'damage to freight transported wholly between
points within the State of Indiana may be presented to
the agent of the carrier who issued the receipt or bill of
lading therefor or to the freight agent or representative
of such carrier at the point of destination, or to any
freight- agent of any carrier in whose possession such
freight was when lost or damaged, and when so presented
shall be paid or rejected by such carrier within ninety
days therefrom, and if neither paid nor rejected in whole
or in part within such time, such claim shall stand admitted as a liability due and payable to the full amount
thereof against any such carrier, and may be recovered
in any court having competent jurisdiction. . .
The assignments of error assail the quoted section as
offensive to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, and in specification it is contended that the judgment of the court in sustaining the
statute and in rendering judgment against the Company
for the full amount of the claim presented, together with
interest, upon the pleadings in the case, denied to the
-Company the right to defend the case on the merits as to
the amount defendant in error was damaged and whether
he was-damaged at all.
The invocation of the Company is of the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. It is admitted the

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. CLIFT.
316

321

Opinion of the Court.

effect of the decisions of this Court is that the relation of
carriers and shippers is "a relation so peculiar as to render
valid a classification based upon it." If there may be class
assignment, there may be class legislation. In other
words, under the concession and the decisions that compel
it, railroads have special characteristics and duties, and
the legislation that is considerate of and appropriate to
those characteristics and duties is due process of law.
And this obviously. The service of a railroad is in the
public interest; it is compulsory, and its purpose and duty
are the transportation of persons and things promptly and
safely, and the purpose and duty are fortified by responsibility for neglect of them or violation of them. And legislation may make an element of. responsibility an early
payment of loss or notification of controversy that responsibility may be enforced if it exist. .In the legislation under review there is no impediment to investigation.
Considering the facilities of the railroad company there is
time for investigation and what can be discovered by it,
and if controversy is resolved upon, the procedure of the
law and the principles which direct the decisions of the
law are available against the claim in whole or in part.
Counsel is, therefore, in error, in the statement that the
statute prohibits the railroad "from contesting the justice
of a claim which has been presented to it, and from showing, even though the claim is justified to a certain amount,
it is not just to the extent claimed." ,
The Company cites cases to sustain its contention that
the statute of the State is unconstitutional. We do not
review them because we consider that they are not analogous or pertinent. They were not concerned with the
time of the. presentation of claims simply and suit upon
then is.in the,Indiana statute. They were concerned with
elements or conditions of liability in addition to the
'claims. Other cases which, in candor, the Company has
cited oppose its contention. In Seaboard Air Line Ry. v.
45646o23-21*

322

3OCTOBER TERM, 1022.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

Seegers, 207 U. S. 73, a statute of South Carolina was held
"valid imposing a penalty of fifty dollars on all cotimon
carriers for failure to adjust damage claims within forty
days from the time of demand. The statute was considered as not one of the mere refusal to pay a claim nor was
it decided to have that objection because a penalty of fifty
dollars could be imposed in case of recovery in court. The
penalty was considered a legal deterrent upon the carrier
in refusing the settlement of just claims and as compensation for the trouble and expense of suit. In Yazoo & Mississippi Valley R. R. Co. v. Jackson Vinegar Co., 226 U. S.
217, the penalty prescribed was decided to be a reasonable
incentive for, the prompt settlement, without suit, of just
demands of a class admitting 'of special legislative treatment. To the same effect are Kansas City Southern Ry.
Co. v. Anderson, 233 U. S.325; Missouri,Kansas & Texas
Ry. Co. v. Cade, 233 U. S.642, and Chicago& NorthwesternInRy.
Co. v. Nye Schneider Fowler Co., ante, 35.
attempting
t'o minimize these cases or exclude them
from authority it seems to be contended, certainly implied; that by the statute,'in case of suit by a claimant, he
is excused from establishing his claim. The contention is
untenable. The statute is clear and direct in its requirements. If the claim is just, there is no injustice in requiring its payment, if the claim is deemed by the company to
be unjust, the statute requires a declaration of the fact by
its rejection. Upon rejection, suit, of course, must be
brought for it and it must be established. No penalty is
imposed for its rejection nor increase of its amount in consequence of rejection.
Judgment affirmed.

