WALKER v. GISH.
441

Syllabus.

of the Nebraska Supreme Court in this case upholds the
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the injury of
the Bridge Company. We must,. therefore, reverse its
judgment.
But we construe the action of the court not to be
equivalent to a finding that such intentional discrimination existed between the valuation of the Bridge Company's property and that of all other real property and
improvements in the county, but rather a-ruling that
even if it did exist, the Bridge Company must continue
to pay taxes on a full 100 per cent. valuation of its property. It was on the same principle, doubtless, that the
District Court ignored the issue of discrimination altogether. It is therefore just that upon reversal we shQuld
remand the case for a further hearing upon the issue of
discrimination, inviting attention to the well-established
rul6 in the decisions of this Court, cited above, that mere
errors of judgment do not support a claim of discrimination, but that there must be something more-something
which in effect amounts'to afA intentional violation of the
essential principle of practical uniformity. Sunday Lae
Iron Co. v. Wakefield, 247 U. S. 350, 353.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska is
reversed and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
WALKER v. GISH.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 135. Argued November 28, 29, 1922.-Decided January 2, 1923.
1. The rule allowing a lot-owner to erect a party wall on the lot line,
-and obliging his neighbor, if he use it, to pay part .of the cost, is
a condition attached to the lots within the original Federal City
under the powers granted by the briginal proprietors of the land;

OCTOBER-TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

.260 U. S.

and, as extended to other parts of the District under an act authorizing the District Commissioners to establish building regulations,
it has the force of a custom binding wherever a party wall is
erected by one lot-owner without objection by the adjoining owner.
P. 449.
2. And,, in"the absence of evidence to the contrary, it must be presumed that the erection of such a wall was done without such
objection. P. 451.
3. A lot-owner who used a party wall wailed his right to object,
in defense of an action for the value, of the use, that the building
regulations, with which he complied, deprived him of his property
*'without due process of law. P. 452.
51 App. D. C. 4; 273 Fed. 366, affirmed.

Error to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia affirming a judgment for Gish in
an action t6 recover the value of the use of a party wallby Walker.
Mr. S. Herbert Giesy for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. C-HEF JUSTmCE TAFr delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Genevieve K. Gish sued Ernest- G. Walker in the
Municipal Court of the District of Columbia for $150
for thd use.of a party wall on premises 2327 Ashmead
Place, Washington, in that part of the District of Columbia not included in the original Federal City, and recovered $144.63.' Walker appealed the case to the Supreme Court of the District. That court on the first
trial directed a verdict for Walker,'the -defendant, on the
ground- that he had not used the wall. On appeal, the
Court of Appeals of the District reversed the judgment
because the question whether the defendant used the wall
was a disputable fact which should have been submitted
to the jury. On the second trial, the court submitted the
issue to the jury which found for the plaintiff, and fixed

WALKER v, GISH.
447

Opinion of the Court.

the value of the use at $85. The Court of Appeals
affirmed the judgment, and the case comes here by writ
of error on the issue of the constitutional validity of the
building regulations of the District of Columbia, which
by the Act of June 14, 1878, c. 194, 20 Stat. 131, are given
the effect of congressional legislation. It is urged that'
they deprived defendant of his property without due
process of lat, in violAtion of the Fifth Amendment.
The question was seasonably raised by a request for a
charge ori the trial and by proper assignment of error
in the proceedings for review. Judicial Code, § 250;
Smoot v. Heyl, 227 U. S. 518, 522.
The history of the law of party walls in Washington is
interesting. Its application is not free from difficulty
in that part of the present Washington which was not
included within the original Federal City. The original
proprietors of the land in the Federal City conveyed it
in trust to certain named pqrsons to be laid out in such
treets, squares and lots as the President of the United
States should approve. Under the trust provisions, the
lots to be sold or distributed were to be subject to such
terms and conditions as might be thought reasonable by
the President for regulating the materials and manner of
the buildings and improvements. President Washington
issued regulations, one of which is in force today. They
provided that a person appointed to superintend buildings might enter on the land of any person to set out
the foundation and regulate the walls to be built between
party and party, as to the breadth and thickness thereof,
that the foundations were to be laid equally upon each
lot and to be of the breadth and thickness thought proper
by the superintendent, that the first builder was to be
reimbursed one-half of the cost of the wall, or so much
thereof as the next builder might use, but that. such use
could not begin till he had paid the amount fixed by the
superintendent. This has been held to be a condition
4564Vo-23-.-..29

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

annexed to every house lot in the original Washington.
Miller v. Elliot, 5 Cr. C. C. 543; 17 Fed. Cas. 315, No.
9568. It has been decided to be the only source of the
right of a lot owner in Washington to put his party wall
on his neighbor's land. Fowler v. Saks, 7 Mackey, 570,
579. By the Act of Congress of 1878, supra,the District
Commissioners were authorized to establish building regulations which should have the force of law; .but the regulation of General Washington was continued in force by
them and applied not only to the Federal City but to the
whole of Wahington. The question then arose what
was the effect of this regulation as applied to the. outlying districts of the city which were not included in the
lots of the Federal City, and which were not affected by the
grant upon condition by the original owners of that city.
This question was fully considered in the -case of Fowler
v. KoehIer, 43 App. D. C. 349, which was a suit like the
one at bar for the-value of appropriated use of a party
wall in.'the newer part of the city. The Court of Appeals d the District held that because party-walls had in
thousands of instances been erected by one of the adjoin•ng owners on the lot of the other in the belief of both
that it was the exercise of a lawful right as in the original
city, a custom had grown up. So general was this that
the court felt justified when erection of a party wall
by one owner was without objection by the other, in
implying an agreement which would rebut inference of a
trespass. Thus there had developed a practical uniformity as to practice in respect of party walls and the
'law governing them betweer.the lots in the Federal City
and those outside, except where,- in the outlying district,
the adjoining owner objected to the erection of the wall
at the time of the construction and took measures t6 prevent it. The court in Fowler v. Koehler. further held
that where party walls were erected in the outside district
under such implied agreements, the same obligation to

WALKER v. GISH.
447

,451

Opinion of the Court.

contribute to the cost of the wall arose in the outlying
district s against the adjoining owners as in the Federal
City, if they used the party wall, and that the relations
between the parties were regulated by the District building regulations.
We think the reasoning of the court in Fowler v.
Koehler sustains its conclusion and that the conclusion
helps to the solution of an unfortunately difficult matter
of much importance. The, status of the party wall in
the case at bar is thus established. There. is. no evidence
of the circumstances under which the party wall was
erected and we must presume that it was done by tlYe
predecessor'in title of the plaintiff below with the'consent
of a grantor of the defendant below.
Plaintiff in error hays that even if this be .true, the
*effect of the District regulations is equivalent to a statute
and deprives him of his property without. due process bf
law. The effect of §§ 74 and 56 of those regulations is,
shortly stated, this: One of the two adjoining owners
may build a two-story house and a party wall nine inches
thick, occupying 41/, inches of his neighbor's land. If,
thereafter, his neighbor wishes to build a house of three
stories, that neighbor is re qhired to have his wall 13
inches thick. He can take down the existing party wall,
but he can occupy only 41/! inches of the other's lot and
must pay all the expenses of the change, including the
damage done to the owner of the two-story house, so that
his party wall will be 81/2 inches on his own land, while
he uses but 41/ inches of his neighbor's. Or he can build
a nine-inch wall against the two-story wall and widen his
wall to 13 inches when it reaches the third story, resting
on 41 inches of the original party wall on his own land.
He thus is compelled 'to occupy with his wall 13 inches
of his own lot and let his neighbor have 4 inches of
his land without corresponding advantage. Counsel for
plaintiff in error urges that the fundamental ideiv in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

institution of party walls is mutual benefit, (Smoot v.
Heyl, 227 U. S.518, 523), which implies equality of easement of support and of occupation of land between the
neighbors, and that to give to the builder of the first wall
such great advantage over his neighbors as these regulations give him deprives his neighbor of property without
I
due process of law.
The questions thus raised niight justify discussion if
the plainfiff in eror were in a positi9n to urge them, and
had not used the origh&I party wall of which he cornplains. His contention below was that he had not used
the wall of his neighbor, that he had built a new wall at
the side oP the original party. wail as high as the original
wall and then had widened it to 13 inches so as to extend
over the original wall without resting on it. The jury
found agaifisc him on this issue. If he did use the
original wa1% then -he must pay for the value of the use.
Fowler v. Saks, 7 Mackey, 570, 581; Fowler v. Koehler,
using it, he waived the right
43 App. D. C. 34, 360.
to object to the regulations with which he complied without objectio, until he was called upon to pay his share
of that -hich he had taken and used.
""
The judgment is affirmed.
-In

-

BLAMBERG BROTHERS. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL -FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

No. 165.

Argued December 5- 1922..-Decided January 2, 1923.

The second section of the Suits in Admiralty Act does not authorize
a suit i" 72ersolam against the, United States, as a substitute for
a libel in rem, when the United States vessel is not in/a port of
the United States or ofofie of her possessions. P..458.
-'272 Fed. 978, affiued."

