BANKERS TRUST CO. v. BLODGETT.
606

647

Counsel for Parties.

a river for a boundary, when a state is established on its
borders; and wherever there is a doubt, that is always to
be presumed which is most natural and most probable.'"
Handly's Lessee v. Anthony, supra, 379, 380.

BANKERS TRUST COMPANY ET AL., EXECUTORS OF McMULLEN, v. BLODGETT, TAX COMMISSIONER OF THE STATE OF CONNECTICUT.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CONNECTICUT.

No. 169. Argued January 3, 1923-Decided January 22, 1923.
1. A state law which, in order to reach property which has escaped
taxation, taxes the estates of decedents for a period anterior to
date of death, but allows proportionate deductions where a personal representative shows that taxes were paid, or property was
not owned, by his decedent within the period, does not deprive
the creditors and distributees of the estates of their property without due process of law. ' P. 650. Gen. Stats. Conn. 1918, § 1190,
sustained.
2. The delinquency of a decedent in not paying taxes may be penalized under the state taxing power by inflicting upon his estae a
penalty measured by the discretion of the legislature P. 651.
3. The constitutional prohibition of ex post facto laws is inapplicable to a retroactive tax penalty. P. 652.
96 Conn. 361, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Superior Court of Connecticut, entered upon direction of the Supreme Court
of Errors, in a proceeding to review a tax assessment.
Mr. William H. Comley for'plaintiffs in error.
MWr. Frank E. Healy, Attorney General of the State of
Connecticut, Mr. William E. Egan and Mr. Carlos S. Holcomb appeared for defendant in error.

648

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opumon of the Court.

260 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE McKENNA. delivered the opinion of the

Court.
By § 1190 of ihe General Statutes of the State of Connecticut, 1918, passed in 1915, it is provided that 'A1l
taxable property of any estate upon which no town or
or upon which no
city tax has been assessed
tax has been paid to tfhe state during the year preceding
the date of the death -of the decedent; -shall be-,liable to
a tax of two per, centum-per annum on the appraised inventory value of such property for the five years' next
preceding the date of the death of such decedent, provided, the executor or administrator of any estate may
by furnishing evidence to. the satisfaction of the tax commissioner that a state, town or city tax has been paid on
any of such property for-a portion of said five years or
that the ownership of such property has not been in the
decedent for a portion of said period, obtain a proportionate deduction from the tax hereby imposed,
It is further provided (§ 1192) 'that "Any executor,
administrator or representative of such an estate aggrieved by'the action of the tax commissioner in deter
mining such tax, if unable to agree with the tax commssioner upon the amount of such tax as provided in'section
1190, may within ninety days from the time of the filing
by the tax commissioner of' such 'statemeift or corrected
statement with the'judge of probate, malie application in
the nature of an appeal therefrom to the superior court
of the county in which such probate court is located which
shall be accompanied by a- citation to said tax comissioner to appear before such court."
Lena McMullen died -in.1919, andithe information requirea by an act passed in that year, amendatory of an
act concerning inventories of estates,' having been. filed
by plaintiffs in error as her executors and sent, as required,
Public Acts of Conn. 1919,,.

50, p. 2713.

BANKERS TRUST CO. ib. BLODGETT.
647

649

Opinion of the Court.

by the Probate Judge to the Tax Commissioner, that officer filed with the State Treasurer a statement that there
was due from the estate of the decedent td the State of
Connecticut by virtue of its statutes, $10,286.39, and made
claifn for such sum.
Plaintiffs in error, within the time provided in § 1192;
made, to quote from the language of the secfion, "application in the nature of an appeal" from the claim to the
Superior Court of the county in which the Probate Court
was located, in accordance with § 1192.
The Tax Commissioner, acting for the State, demurred
"to the reas6ns of application and appeal," and the
Superior Court, by consent of the parties, reserved the
questions of law arising upon the demurrer "for the adas to what
vice of the Supreme Court of Errors . .
judgment should be rendered" on the demurrei. In fulfillment of the "reservation" the Supreme Court of
Errors took the case, adjudged the statute to be valid,
and advised the Superior Court "to sustain the demurrer
and to dismiss the application."
The Superior Court in execution of that direction, sustained 'the demurrer and entered judgment dismissing the
"application in the nature of an appeal." To review that
judgment is the purpose of this writ of error. Manifestly,
however, it is the views and reasoning of the Supreme
Court of Errors that must engage our attention as they
constituted the foundation of the judgment of the Superior
Court.
In description of the statute, the Court of Errors said,
its purpose is" to compel estates to pay to the State a
sum which shall approximately equal the taxes which
property of the estate has escaped paying while in the
hands of the decedent "; and "the single point raised by
the demurrer," the court further said, "is that the statutes which authorize this action of the commissioner are
unconstitutional."

. 650

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

The specifications of the ground of offense urged by,
plaintiffs in error against the-Fourteenth Amendment
(and with this only are we concerned) were said by the
court t'o be that th 'statute deprived "creditors and distribute es of this estate of tiheir property without due
process of law, (a) by exacting a penalty fr'om them for, the
failure of the'decedent _toilist'his property for taxation, and
(b) bkr creating against them a presumption of guilt for
such omission.' The comment of the court upon the'
specifications was thai both "rest upon the unfou'nded
premise that the property of this estate, upon the decease
of the Owner,.' paSsed to the distributees subject to the
payment of the just debts of the estate." And- the court
further said, "The-i4~Iut. to dispose of one's property by
will, and the righ t o have it disposed of by law, after
decease, is createff b k stAtute, and therefore the State
may,impose such conditions upon the exercise of this
righ'. - my determine. Stone Appeal, 74-Conn. 301,
302; Hatheway v. Smith, 79 Conn. 506." See also Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S.-i15, 34; Knowlton'v. Moore,I78
U. S..41.
The' conclusion 'of the court is of such authoritative,
effect as not to need much comment. The atta~kupon
it by plaintiffs in error is based upon a confusion of rights.
A pointed out by the Supreme Court of Erors, executors
and ad, ainistrators do not own the -property committedto them - or adifinistration. It goes, to them subject to
the liabilities and burdens upon it in the hands 6f its
owner;',aid whatever interest distributees o creditors
may have is subject to the sa meiabilities and burdens,subject, ' we ,may say, as the court decided, to 'the fax
which the State has-Imposed on its disposition or devolution: And the tax' does not take o n'a difereht quality
Lapenalty.
because it, is, o has the' effect-Of,
'orincident
And th6 'court, constqjin'-the statute, declared it was a
provision for'penalizing
delinquency

BANKERS TRUST CO. v. BLODGETT.
647

Opinion of the Court.

of the decedent, and made to survive "by statutory sanction." "In effect," the court said, "this, statute is a
penalty imposed upon the estate because of the delinquency of the decedent, and no less permissible than the
penalty fax against the decedent, kept alive by statutory
sanction."
Plaintiffs in error do not contest the principle expressed
but deny its application by asserting, (1) there was no
debt owed by decedent, (2) no action under the statute
arose against her, (3) no penalty had been incurred by
her because as long as she lived the statute was inapplicable to her, (4) it is not a tax, for its primary object
is punishment, not revenue.
The assertions are.-unjustified. There was an evasion
of duty by decedent, and the obligation she incurred, and
should have discharged, was imposed upon her estate, and
legally imposed, for out of her estate only can it be discharged. The payment of taxes is an obvious and insistent duty, and its sanction is usually punitive. The Connecticut statute is not, therefore, in its penal effects,
unique, nor are they out of relation or proportion to a.
decedent's delin'quency.
The Court of Errors recogfnized that the tax of the
statute "may not represent what the decedent would
have been required to pay had" she "paid the state or
local tax." And, as we have seen, the tax may be uPon
the appraised inventory value for the five years next preceding the death of the decedent with a proportionate
deduction if a tax has been paid on any of the property
for a portion of the five years, or if the ownership of the
property has not been in the decedent for a portion of
that period. The provision, however, is but a. way of
fixing a penalty for the delinquency, which it is competent
for the State to do. We said in Western Union Telegraph
Co. v. Indiana, 165 U. S. 304, 310, that the amount of a
penalty is a matter for the legislature of a State to deter-

652

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of 'the 'bOurt.

260 U. S.

mine in its discretion,
accordance with the priciiile
pand p
we sustained a penalty of 50 per cent. of the taxes assessed
'against the Telegraph Company and unpaid-by it.
Section 1190 was passed in 1915 and went into effect
August Ist of that year. Decedent died -in May 1919.
Plamtiffs in error contend, therefore, that in one of the
years"(1914) of the five of omission to pay taxes "the
only penalty provided by law ther6for was the addition
of ten per cent. to 'thu assessed' valuation of the omitted
property"' Therefore, A is the further contention, the
attempt of the section -s" to reach into the past and to
than
when the
provide a greater punishment
2
. ....the law did ti-ut
;
crime was comimtted, " and hence incurs constit'tional
prohibition as an ex post facto law
The contention isuintenable. The penalty of the statute vas, not in pumshmeit of a crime,, and it is only to
such that the constittional prohibition 'applies. It has
no relation to retroepective legislatioia of any other description. Johannessen v United States, 225 U S. 227
242.
The final contention of plaintiffs in error is that the
statute can only be sustained on the- assilmption that "in
the last analysis the property of deceased persons belongs
to the Sfate."
The contention is extreme. The power of taxation,
-ith its accessorial sanctions, is a power of government,
and all property is subjet to it. And'it is a proper exer
else of i to satisfy out of his estate tHe delinqueacy of a
property owner. It is- so complete that it does not need
the assumption of universal ownership by 'the State to
justify it.

Affirmed.

