KIRBY v. UNITED STATES.

423

Counsel for Parties.

KIRBY ET AL. v. UNITED STATES, FOR-AND 0
BEHALF OF THE CROW TRIBE OF INDIANS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 126. Aigued November 27, 1922.-Decided December 11, 1922A lease.of Indian land for cattle grazing, for two years; at a minimum rental of $31,950 per year, provided that the number of
cattle to be grazed should "be limited to ai average of 9,000
head, the maximum number at any one time not to exdeed 11,500
head," and that "any excess over and above .such maximum number shall be paid for at the rate of $4.50 per head for each and
every head of such excess number," in addition to the rental named.
Reld, reading these with. other provisions of the lease and with the
written proposal therefor, and considering the subject-matter(1) That the average of 9,000 head was- for each year separately,
to be paid for by the minimum rental, and that the additional
charge of $4.50 per head applied to all in excess of that average,
and not merely to any excess over 11,500 head grazed at any one
time. P. 425:,
(2) The $4.50 charge was neither a penalty nor liquidated damages.
P. 427.
(3) The act of one of the two lessees, who was in charge of the
leased area, in admitting additional cattle to graze, was the act
of both. P. 427.
273 Fed. 391, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a judgment recovered by the United States in
the District Court in an action for rent against two lessees
and their surety.

-

Mr. M. S. Gunn and Mr. Edgar Allen Poe, with whom
Mr. Carl Basch, Mr. E. M. Hall, Mr. 0. King Grimstad
and Mr. Rockwood Brown were on the brief, for plaintiffs
in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General.Seymour, with whom.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Robert P. Reeder,

.424
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

"

260 U. S.

Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief, for the United States.
_-M.

JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
With the approval of the Secretary of the Interior certain lands of the Crow Tribe of Indians in Montana were
leased to George B. YKirby and Charl.s MeDaniels for the
grazing of cattle-for two-years beginning February 1, 1916.
A bofid, in which the United States Fidelity and Guaranty
Company joined as surety, was given by the lessees for the
faithful performanceof their obligations. The lease requi#ed,them to pay a minimum rental of $31,950 per year
and to abide by the following provision:
"And it is further agreed that the number of cattle to
be grazed on the territory described .above shall be limited
to an averageof 9,000 head, the maximum r4umber at any
one time not to exceed 11,500 head, and that any excess
over and above such maximum number shall be paid for
at the rate of $4.50 per head for each and every head of
such excess number, in addition to the rental herein
named."
The lessees paid .the rental of $31,950 for. each of the
two years, but failed to pay an additional sum claimed
under that provision for cattle grazed in excess of the prescribed average.
On behalf of the .tribe the United States sued the lessees
and the surety company to recover the additional sum so
claimed; and the defendants answered denying that there
had been any excess grazing. . The issues were tried to
the court, a jury being waived by written stipulation. The
court found that there was no exqe.s grazing. during the
first year, but that the cattle grazed during the second
year exceeded "the contract maximum average of 9,000
head for the year "by what was "equivalent to 6,968 head
for one year." For this excess a recovery was allowed at*

]KIRBY v. UNITED STATES.
423

42,5

Opinion of the Court.

the rate of $4.50 per head, which was affirmed by the Cir-.
cult Court of Appeals. 273 Fed. 391. The defendants
prosecute the present writ of error.
The chief controversy is over the meaning and effect of
the provision we have quoted from the lease. Pointing to
it, the defendants contend (a) that any grazing in excess
of an average of 9,000 head was prohibited, and therefore
was a trespass for which no recovery could be had in a suit
on either the lease or the bond; (b) that the additional
payment at the rate of $4.50 per head was to he made
only for any excess over 11,500 head grazed at any.one
time; and (c) that'the intended average of 9,000 head was
for the full two-year period and not for either year taken
separately. Both courts below rejected these contentions.
The provision relied on was loosely framed and, if read
alone, might well be regarded as of uncertain meaning.
But it is to be read with other provisions of the lease, with
the written proposal of the lessees whereby the lease was
obtained, and in the light of the conditions which naturally prompted some provision on the subject. When it
is examined in this way, the explanation for it and its
meaning are shown to be as follows: The parties recognized that pasturage, being an annual crop, is lost if not
utilized before the next growing season, and they evidently intended to deal with each year as a distinct period.
A minimum rental of $31,950 was to be paid to the lessors
for each year. Payment of that sum was to give the
lessees the right to graze 9,000 cattle on the leased area
for the particular year. But it was not practicable to have
a definite number grazing throughout the year, for marketing some and bringing in others would cause the number to vary materially. So, an average *of9,000 head was
agreed on. This would permit a shortage in one part of
the year to be made up by a-corresponding increase in
another part. But to prevent this privilege from -being
carried to extreme lengths, the provision for an average

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

was qualified by saying "the maximum number at any
one time not to exceed 11,500 head." The'purpose of that
,provision, as thus qualified, was to define
the grazing
which might be done for the minimum rental Of $31,950;in other words, to show that the grazing which might be
done without further payment was limited to an average
of -9,000 cattle. But the parties recognized the propriety
of making some provision respecting the possible grazing
of a larger number and the charge to be paid for it. Ac.cordingly,'they said in a succeeding clause that "any excess over and above such maximum number shall be paid
for at the rate of $4.50 per head." The maximum number
there intended was evidently the number which might be
grazed for the minimum rental,-that is to say, an average of 9,000 head; for of course the point to which that
rental- extended must have been the one at which the
charge for additional grazing was to begin. It was not
intended that any grazing should be free, but, on the
contrary, that all that was not covered by the minimum
rental should'be paid for at the rate of $4.50 per head.
The District Court aptly said:
"The language of the -lease, that this $4.50 per head is
payable-for 'any excess over and above such maximum
number,' does not necessarily import only cattle over and
above 11,500 head, the last antecedent and maximum
eo nomine, but consistent with the writing and construction can be and is-taken to import cattle over and above
9,000 head, the first antecedent and also a maximum,
although -not in terms so characterized. Nine thousand
head are the maximum for the year as a vhole, the principal thing, and the 11,500 are the maximum at any time
(and for such time as will serve to accomplishlthe 9,000
maximum), an incidental thing. . . Defendants' ar vment that by the terms of the lease they are to pay orLy
for excess over 11,500 head, and that for all between 9,f 00
head and 11,500 head they-would be amenable only to the

COX v. HART.
423

Syllabus.

relevant criminal law applicable tb trespassers, is untenable."
The Circuit Court of Appeals construed the lease in the
same way, and we think that construction is the correct
one. As the three contentions before stated all depend on
a contrary construction they must fail.
The $4.50 rate is assailed as being a penalty or liquidated damages, and therefore condemned by a statute of
the State. We think it is neither a penalty nor liquidated
damages. It was not to be paid for any breach of contract, but as compensation for particular grazing contemplated in the lease and not covered by the rental otherwise fixed;. Whether the state statite could affect a contract made by the United States on behalf of Indian
wards need not be considered.
At the trial it appeared that the additional cattle were
admitted to and grazed on the leased area by one of the
lessees, who had special charge of the operations under
the lease; and there was a conflict in the evidence as to
whether the other lessee consented to or acquiesced in
those acts. The District Court ruled that the conflict was
immaterial and that the acts of the lessee in charge were
the acts of both. Complaint is made 'of this, but it obviously was right. Kendall v. Carland, 5 Cush. 74;
Goshorn v. Steward, 15 W. Va. 657, 664.
Judgment affirmed.

COX v. HART.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 71. Argued November 16, 1922.-Decided December 11, 1922.
1. What will constitute possession of a tract of land depends largely
upon its character and condition and the use to which it is

