PORTSMOUTH CO. v. UNITED STATES.
326

327

Counsel for Appellants.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Judgment in this case was rendered at the same time as
that in Mason & Hanger Co. v. United States, just decided, ante, 323.
The amounts only are different. In that case it was
$2,500-in this case it is $150. In both, the amounts
represented premiums on bonds and depend upon the
same considerations. On the authority of the Mason &
Hanger Co. Case the judgment of the Court of Claims in
this case is
Affirmed.
PORTSMOUTH HARBOR LAND & HOTEL COMPANY ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 97. Argued November 15, 1922.-Decided December 4, 1922.
1. The petition alleged that the United States, after having several
times in the past discharged its batte-.7 over petitioner's land, reinstalled its guns with the intention of so firing them and without
intention or ability to fire them otherwise, established a fire control
and service upon that land, and again discharged all of the guns
over and across it. A taking by the United States was alleged as a
conclusion of fact from these specific acts, and damages were
claimed. Held; that the taking of a servitude, and an implied contract to pay, might be inferred; and that a demurrer to the petition should not have been sustained. P. 328.
2. Where acts amount to a takig of property by the United States,
without assertion of an adverse right, a contract to pay may be
implied whether it was thought of or not. P. 330.
56 Ct. Clms. 494, reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment of fhe Court of Claims dismissing a petition on demurrer.

Mr. Chauncey Hackett, with whom Mr. John Lowell
was on the briefs, for appellants.

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Robert P.
Reeder, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the.

Court.
This is a claim in respect of land which, or an interest
in which, is alleged to have been taken by the United
States Government. Similar claims in respect of the same
land based upon earlier acts of the Government have been
made before and have been denied. Peabody v. United
States, 231 U. S.530. PortsmouthHarbor Land & Hotel
Co.v. United States, 250 U. S.1. But it is urged that the
cumulative effect of later acts added to those that have
been held not enough to establish a taking leads to a
different result.-The land is on Gerrish Island, lying east
of the entrance to Portsmouth Harbor, and borders on the
ocean. Its main value is for use as a summer resort. Adjoining it to the north and west lies land of the United
States upon which the Government has erected a fort, the
guns of which have a range over the whole sea front of the
claimants' property. In the first case it was decided that
the mere erection of the fort and the fact that guns were
fired over the claimants' land upon two occasions about
two years and a half before the suit was brought, coupled
with the apprehension that the firing would be repeated,
but with no proof of intent to repeat it other than the
facts stated, did not require the finding of an appropriation and a promise to pay by the United States. The
second case was like the first except for "some occasional
subsequent acts of gun fire," 250 U. S.2, and the finding
of -the Court of Claims for the United States again was
sustained.
The present case was decided upon demurrer. The.
question therefore is not what inferences should be 6tlawn
from the facts that may be proved but whether the allega-

-

PORTSMOUTH CO. v. UNITED STATES. 329
327

Opinion of the Court.

tions if proved would require or at least warrant a different finding from those previously reached. There is no
doubt that a serious loss has been inflicted upon the'claimant, as the public has been frightened off the premises by
the imminence of the guns; and while it is decided that
that and the previously existing elements of actual harm
do not create a cause of action, it was assumed in the first
decision that "if the Government had installed its battery, not simply as a means of defense in war, but- with
the purpose and effect of subordinating the strip of "land
between the battery and the sea to the right and privilegeof the Government to fire projectiles directly across it for
the purpose of practice or otherwise, whenever it saw fit,
in time-of peace, with the result of depriving the owner
of its profitable use, the imposition of such a servitude
would constitute an appropriation of property for which
compensation should be made." 231 U. S.538. That proposition we regard as clearly sound. The question is
whether the petition before us presents the case supposed.
It is alleged that after dismounting the old guns for the
purpose of sending them to France during the late war,
the United States has set up heavy coast defense guns
with the intention of firing them over the claimants' land
and without the intent or ability to fire them except over
that land. It also, according to the petition, has established upon that land a fire control station and service,
and in December, 1920, it again dischai'ged all of the guns
over and across the same land. The last fact, although
occurring after this petition was filed, may be considered
as bearing on the intent in establishing the fire control.
If the United States, with the admitted intent to fire
across the claimants' land at will should fire a single shot
or put a fire control upon the land, it well might be that
the taking of a right would be complete. But even when
the intent thus to make use of the claimants' property is
not admitted, while a. single act may not be enough, a continuance of them in sufficient number and for a sufficient

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
BRANDEIs

and

SuTHERLAND,

JJ., d&senting.

260 U, S.

time may prove it. Every successive trespass adds to the
force of -theevidence. The establishment of a fire control
is an indication of an abiding purpose. The fact that the
evidence was not sufficient in 1905 does not show that
it may not be sufficient in 1922. As we have said the intent and the overt acts are alleged as is also the conclusion
that the United States has taken the land. That we take
to be stated as 'a conclusion of fact and not of law, and as
intended to allege the actual import of the foregoing acts.
In our opinion the specific facts set forth would warrant a
finding that a servitude has been imposed.
It very well may be that the claimants will be unable to
establish authority on tho part of those who did the acts to
hind th6 Government by taking the land, United States
v. North American'Transportation& Trading Co., 253
U. S. 330. But as the allegation is that the United States
did the hcts in question, we are not prepared to, pronounce
it impossible upon demurrer. As the United States built
the fdrt and put in the guns and the men, there is a little
natural unwillingness to find lack of authority to do the
acts even if the possible legal consequences were unforeseen. If the acts amounted to a taking, without assertion
-of an adverse right, a contract would be implied whether
# was thought of or not.'. The repetition of those acts
through many years and the establishment of the fire
control may be found to show an abiding purpiose to fire
when the 'United States sees fit, even if not frequently,
or they may be explained as still only occasional torts.
That is for the Court of CIlims when the evidence is
leard.:
Judgment reversed.
MR. JusTicE BRANDEIs dissenting, with whom MR. JusTICE SUTHERLAND concurs.
I agree that, in time of peace, the United States has not
the unlimited right to shoot from a battery over adjoining

PORTSMOUTH CO. v. UNITED STATES.
327

BRANDEIS

and

SUTHERLAND,

331

JJ., dissenting.

private property, even if no physical damage is done to it
thereby; that a single shot so -fired may, in connection
with other conceivable facts, justify a court in finding
that the Government took, by eminent domain, the land
or an easement therein; and that such taking, if made
under circumstances which give rise to a contract implied
in fact to pay compensation, will entitle the owner to sue
in the Court of Claims. But the question here is not
whether the facts set forth in the petition would alone,
or in connection with other evidence, justify the court in
finding such a taking and the implied contract. The case
was heard on demurrer to the petition; the facts therein
set forth must, therefore, be taken as the ultimate facts;
and they must be treated as are the findings of fact made
by the Court of Claims. These are treated like a special
verdict and not as evidence from which inferences may be
drawn. Rule I of this Court relating to appeals from the
Court of Claims; Crocker v. United States, 240 U. S. 74,
78; Brothers y. United States, 250 U. S. 88, 93. Unless,
therefore, the petition sets forth facts wall pleaded, which
if found by the lower court would as matter of law entitle
the claimants to a judgment, the lower court was, in my
-opinion, right in dismissing th- petition.
Appropriation by the United States of private property
for public use, without instituting condemnation proceedings, does not entitle the owner to sue under thb Tucker
Act (Judicial Code, § 24, par. 20), unless the taking was
made under such circumstances as to give rise to a contract express or implied in fact to pay compensation.
Hill v. United States, 149 U. S. 593; Schillinger v. United
States, 155 U. S. 163, 168-171; Belknap v. Schild, 161 U. S.
10, 17; John"Horstmann Co. v. United States, 257 U. S.
138, 146. Hence this action must rest on a contract, express or implied in fact. Harley v. United States, 198
U. S. 229; United States v. Buffalo Pitts Co., 234 U. S.
228, 232; William Cramp & Sons Co. v. Curtis Turbine

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
BRANDEIS

and

SUTHERLAND,

JJ., dissenting.

260 U. S.

Co., 246 U. S. 28, 40, 41. There is no suggestion of an
express promise; and there is not to be found in the petition, or in the exhibits incorporated by reference, a single
allegation, however general, of an implied contract. This
omission would not be fatal, if the petition set forth the
facts essential to, the existence of the cause of action. But
it does not. An appropriation of private property will
not entitle the owner to recover if made by mistake or if
made under, a claim of right, although the claim is later
shown to be unfounded. Tempel v. United .States, 248
U. S. 121, 130, 131. And, if the appropriation was made
by an officer without authority, the claimant is likewise
without this remedy against the Government. United
States v. North American Transportationd Trading Co.,
253 U. S. 330, 333. The essentials of a recovery are a
taking on behalf of the United States, made by officials
duly authorized, and under such conditions that a contract
will be implied in fact. The petition fails to set out such
facts. Indeed, the facts which are set out make it clear
that what was done did not constitute a tal.ing; that the
officers of the Govermnent in doing what they did, had
no intention of subjecting it to any liability; that they
were not authorized to take the land or an easemeat
therein; and that they consistently denied that claimants
were entitled to compensation. Implied contracts in fact
do not arise from denials and contentions of parties, but
from their common understanding whereby mutual intent
to contract without formal words therefor 's shown.
Farnhamv. United States, 240 U. S. 537; E. W. Bliss Co.
v. United States, 253 U. S. 187, 190, 191; Knapp v. United
States, 46 Ct. Clms. 601, 643.
The petition sets forth the proceedings in the two earlier
cases, Peabody v. United States, 231 U. S. 530; Portsmouth Harbor Land & Hotel Co. v. United States, 250
U. S. 1. Those judgments make res judicata,not only the
fact that there was no appropriation prior to 1.918, but

PORTSMOUTH CO. v. UNITED STATES.
327

BRANDEis and

SUTHERLAND,

333

JJ., dissenting.

also the facts specifically found in the second suit concerning the erection and maintenance of the battery, the
policy and practice of the military authorities, and their
intentions when the guns were discharged prior to that
date. Among other things, as the petition states, the
court found that the shots were fired for the purpose of
testing certain modifications of the gun carriages made
shortly prior thereto; that in so firing the guns the officers
and agents of the United States especially desired, intended, and took precautions so to fire them and believed
they were so firing them, as to avoid firing any of them
over any part of claimants' land; that such firing as was
done over'said land was due to a misunderstanding on the
part of said officers and agents as to the boundaries of said
land; that the fort was not constructed for the purpose of
firing any of its guns over and across any of claimants'
lands in time of peace, or of so firing them at all, except
over the Government's own premises occasionally for
testing purposes; that the fort was never garrisoned; that
no target or practice firing was ever done there; that until
1917, when its guns were dismounted for removal and use
elsewhere, its batteries had been continuously kept in
serviceable condition for defensive use by a small detail
from Fort Constitution, across the harbor; and that it was
the policy and practice of. the military authorities not to
maintain garrisons and train gun crews at all of its coast
fortifications, but to maintain garrisons and do such
training at fortifications where the facilities for training
are best and where there was, or naturally would be, less
objection and complaint by nearby residents on account of
the noise' and concussion.1 The only later occurrences,
IThe facts concerning the establishment and earlier use of the
battery found in the first suit, were:
By Act of February 21, 1873, c. 175, 17 Stat. 468, 469, Congress
appropriated $50,000 for batteries in Portsmouth Harbor,. on Gerrish
Island and Jerry Point, and by Act of February 10, 1875, c. 39, 18

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
BRANDEiS

and

SUTHERLAND,

JJ., dissenting.

260 U. S.

material to the issue, which are set forth in this suit, in the
petition as amended, are the re-installation of the guns at
thp battery after the Armistice, the erection of a fire control station on claimants' land in connection therewith,
and firing the guns on December 8, 1920.
This suit was begun in February, 1920. The original
petition set forth the facts found in the earlier cases; and'
Stat. 313, added to the appropriation for the Gerrish Island battery,
$20,000. Under the authority thus conferred a tract. of 70 acres
abutting claimants' land was purchased in 1873, and construction
was begun. After $50,000 had been expended in substantially completing the breast-high walls of the fortification, the work was suspended for lack of appropriations in 1876; and it was not resumed,
until funds were allotted out of the general appropriation made by
the Act of May 7, 1898, c. 248, 30 Stat. 400, for fortifications and
like purposes. Then, on the site of the old, uncompleted battery,
there was constructed the battery now known as Fort Foster; and in
December, 1901, it was transferred to the Artillery. In June, 1902,
the Government fired two of the guns, and in September, 1902, another, for the purpose of testing guns and carriages, off the coast; and
in so doing it fired across complainants' land. Between that time
and 1911 no gun was fired from the fort. This battery is located
within 200 feet of a corner of claimants' land; no part of the fort
encroaches upon it; but the guns there installed had a range of fire
over all its sea front; and whether the guns then installed could
have been fired for practice or other necessary purpose in time of
peace without shooting over claimants' land depends upon a question
of law concerning ownership of a narrow strip of land over which
the guns had a range of fire-a question as to which the parties were
and so far as appears are still in dispute. It was not, so far as then
appeared, the intention of the Government to fire in time of pea.e
any gun already installed or which might thereafter be installed,
over and across the claimants' land, so as to deprive them of the
use of the sam'e or to injure them, except as such intention can be
drawn from the fact that the guns then installed were so fixed as to
make it possible so to do and the fact that they had been fired as
stated. On these facts found by the Court of Claims, 46 Ct. Clms.
39, that ccurt and this held, that there was no basis for the claim'
that the Government had appropriated the land and impliedly agreed
to pay for it. Peabody v. United States, 231 U. S. 530.

PORTSMOUTH CO. v. UNITED STATES.
327

BRANDEIS

335

and SUTHERLAND, JJ., dissenting.

substantinily nothing more except the intention to reinstall the guns. It was devoted largely to pointing out
errors in the earlier findings for which it sought relief
through the equity powers of the court. The only new
fact then alleged, which may be deemed material, was
"establishing [on claimants' land] a fire control station
and service for use of the fort." The reinstallation of
guns, and the firing in December, 1920, were first set up
by an amendment filed in 1921. And it is by this reinstallation after the commencement of this suit, that the
United States is alleged to have established the fort as a
part of the permanent coast defense.1 If there was no
taking until the guns were installed and the shots fired in
December, 1920, then there was no cause of action when
this suit was brought; and the demurrer was properly sustained on that ground. See Court of Mafiom. County v.
United States, 53 Ct. Clms. 120, 150. And there is this
further obstacle to the maintenance of the suit. We take
judicial notice of the fact that on December 8, 1920, the
United States was still at war with Germany and AustriaHungary. Joint Resolution of March 3, 1921, c. 136, 41
Stat. 1359. That the Government has in time of war the
right to shoot-over private land was assumed in IPeabody
'The amendment alleges:
"And in so doing the United States have established the said fort
and battery with the said guns as a part of the permanent establishment of the coast defense fortifications maintained by [it] . . .
without intending to fire, or being able to fire, the said guns to sea
except over and across the said land. And the United States have
used the said land of the said claimants for the establishment of a

fire control station and service for the use of said fort. The United
States have since setting up the said guns, as aforesaid, at frequent
intervals in the use of the said fort, raised "-.e
said guns and pointed
them as aforesaiC over and across the said land, and have, further,
in the use of the said fort, discharged all of the said guns as aforesaid, on or about the eighth day of December, 1920, over and across
the said land'

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
BRANDEIS

and

SUTHERLAND,

JJ., dissenting.

260 U. S.

v. United States, supra, and is not disputed. See also,
Peabody v. United States, 43 Ct. Clms. 5, 18. The Armistice signed November 11, 1918, left the United States
possessed in December, 1920, of the same power to fire
over claimants" land as if war had then been flagrant.
Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries & Warehouse Co., 251
U. S. 146, 158-160. Reinstallation of the guns and testing them by firing was an appropriate precautionary
measure in view of a possible renewal of the 'conflict.
Thus, the only overt acts upon claimants' land which are
alleged to have occurred after the date of the findings in
the earlier cases, and which are relied upon as establishing
a faking after entry of the judgment in 250 U. S. 1, appear
to have been acts done in the exercise of a right already
possessed without a taking.
It is said that the petition alleges, in general terms, a
taking and intention to take by the United States; that
this allegation alone, although general, is an allegation of
all the facts necessary to give a cause of action; and that
the specification in detail of the facts relied upon may be
treated as surplusage. To this contention there are several answers. The practice of the Court of Claims, while
liberal, does not allow a general statement of claim in
analogy to the common-counts. It requires a plain concise statement of the facts relied upon: See Rule 15,
Court of Claims. The petition may not be so general as
to'leave the defendant in doubt as to what must be met.
Schierling v. United States, 23 Ct. Clms. 361; Atlantic
Works v. United States, 46 Ct. Chns. 57, 61; New Jersey
Foundry & Machine Co. v. United States, 49 Ct. Cims.
235; United States v. Stratton,88 Fed. 54, 59. If the suit
had rested upon a statute which provides that the owner
of property appropriated shall receive compensation, a
fairly general statement that the property had been taken
might be sufficient; for, in such a case, the obligation to
pay would follow as a conclusion of law. But here, there

PORTSMOUTH CO. v. UNITED STATES. - 337
327

BRANDEIS and SUTHERLAND, JJ., dissenting.

is no such statute; the mere fact of appropriation would
not raise a promise implied in law; hence, claimants were
obliged to set forth additional facts to show that the Government intended to pay the claimants compensation.
Moreover, the general allegation of taking was not left to
stand alone. Claimants set forth, in great detail, the facts
upon which they rely as constituting a legal taking; they
have done it in such a way that the allegation of taking
reads now, not as an allegation of fact, but as a statement
by the pleader of a conclusion of law; and consequently is
not admitted by the demurrer. Pierce Oil Corporationv.
City of Hope, 248 U. S. 498, 500. And for a further reason, the facts set forth in detail may not be disregarded as
surplusage. They negative the existence of a cause of
'action. Randall v. Howard, 2 Black, 585; McClure v.
Township of Oxford, 94 U. S. 429; Speidel v. Henrici, 120
U. S. 377. The facts stated show, as indicated above, not
only an absence of taking and of intention to take the
claimants' property, but also an absence of authority to
do so in those who did the acts relied upon.
The petition alleges in terms authority in the Secretary
of War to take the land. But in setting forth the facts
relied upon, the pleader has disclosed the absence of authority from the Secretary of War to the officers by whom
the taking, if any, must have been made. Claimants
seek in their suit to recover $820,000. They assert that
the land is worth $700,000. For the fifteen years preceding the commencement of this suit, there had been active
litigation in which claimants had strenuously asserted that
there was a taking and the United States had throughout
denied that it had taken, or intended to take, any property of claimants. Unless the Secretary of War conferred
upon his subordinates who made this alleged taking
authority to take this land or an easement therein, the
Government can, in no event, be made liable. United
States v. North American Transportation & Trading Co.,
4"646°

2

3-

'

'338

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
BRANDEIS and SUTHERLAND, JJ., dissenting.

260 U. S.

253 U. S. 330, 333, 334. See Ball Engineering Co. v. J.
G. White & Co., 250 U. S. 46, 54-57. If'the present case
had proceeded to a trial on the facts, claimants could not
have proved authority in the subordinate officers to acquire this land or an interest therein, by showing merely
that they were authorized to reinstall the guns and to
test them after installation. That is exactly what they
had done before and which the courts found did not constitute a taking. An authority to take land by purchase
or by eminent domain is not conferred by the Secretary
of War merely because he has authorized, directly or indirectly, certain discharges of guns for testing or other
purposes. We must take judicial notice, that to acquire
land for fortifications is not, and was not, within the
powers ordinarily conferred upon the Ordnance or upon
the Artillery. We know that by Act of July 2, 1917, c.
35, 40 Stat. 241, provision was made for speedy acquisition by the Secretary of War, by means of condemnation
or purchase, of any land, temporary use thereof or interest therein, needed for the site, location, construction
or prosecution of works for fortification or coast defenses;
that upon filing a petition for condemnation, the immediate possession thereof to the extent of the interest to be
acquired could be obtained; and that by passage of this
act the occasions for taking interests in land without first
instituting condemnation proceedings had been largely
removed. We know that by Act of June 30, 1906, c.
3914, 34 Stat." 764, a contract involving payment of
money may not be made in excess of appropriations. 30
-Ops. Atty. Gen. 147, 149. We know that Act of March
3, 1919, c. 99, § 6, 40 Stat. 1305, 1309, required that estimates of appropriation for fortifications and other defense works for the year beginning July 1, 1920, be submitted to Congress in the Book of Estimates. And we
may take judicial notice of the fact that in submitting
estimates of the amount needed for the year beginning

PORTSMOUTH CO. v. UNITED STATES. 339
327

BRANDEIS

and

SUTHERLAND,

JJ.; dissenting.

July 1, 1920, "For procurement or reclamation of land,
or rights pertaining thereto, needed for site, location,
construction, or prosecution of work for fortifications and
coast defenses,.' the Secretary of War asked for only $15,000 for the whole country for all these purposes; and that
no part of that amount was Allocated in the estimates
to the "Purchase of land and interest in land." Estimates of Appropriation, 66th Cong., 2d sess., Doc. 411, pp.
531, 532. The facts alleged and of which we take judicial
notice show not only an absence of intention to take, but
the absence of power and authority to take.
The principle on which, under certain conditions, compensation may be recovered in the Court of Claims for
private property appropriated for public purposes without condemnation proceedings, leaves unimpaired the
long established rules that the United States isnot. liable
for its torts, nor for unauthorized acts of its officers and
agents, although performed in the ordinary course of
their business and for the benefit of the United States.
The Tucker Act merely gives a remedy where the essential elements of contractual liability exist. It does
not give a right of action against the United States in
those cases where, if the transaction were between private
parties, recovery could be had upon a contract implied in
law, as in case of unjust enrichment, Sutton v. United
States, 256 U. S.575, 581, or when a plaintiff waives a
tort and sues in contract. Hijo v. United States, 194 U.
S.315, 323; Hooe v. United States, 218 U. S.322. The
fact alleged in the petition that at some time in 1919 the
War Department offered to purchase part of this land for
the fire control station-perhaps only a few square feet,
or a rood, out of a 200-acre tract-when considered in
connection with the other facts stated; serves not to
prove, but to negative authorization to make t e taking
.asserted in this suit. That the offer was not accepted

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Petitioner.

260 U. S.

and that the Government did not institute condemnation
proceedings may tend to show that officers of the United
States committed a tort on its behalf; but, if a tort was
committed, the remedy lies with Congress, not with the
courts.
NEW YORK CENTRAL & HUDSON RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY v. KINNEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK.

No. 110. Argued November 21, 1922.-Decided December 4, 1922.
Where a: complaint in an action for personal injuries alleges facts
which may, constitute the wrong either under the state law or the
Federal Employers' Liability Act, according to the nature of the
employment, an amendment alleging that the parties at the time
of injury were engaged in interstate commerce does not introduce
a new cause of action, and may be allowed after the two-year
limitation prescribed by § 6 of the act has run. P. 345.
190 App. Div. 967; 231 N. Y. 578, affirmed;
CERTIORARI to a, judgment of the Supreme Court of
Newro York, entered on remittitur from the Court of Appeals, affirming a judgment for the plaintiff, Kinney, in
an action for personal injuries against the Railroad Company. There we're several trials in the New York courts
before the amendment passed upon here was made. See
98 Misc. 8; 171 App. Div. 948; 217 N, Y. 325; 185 App.
Div. 903; 190 App. Div. 967; 231 N. Y. 578.
Mr. Mau e C. Spratt, with whom Mr. Herbert W.

tluntindton was' oi the briefs, for petitioner.
The amendment to the complai&t alleging, engagement
of the plaintiff and defendant in interstate commerce
introduced an entirely new cause of action, and hav'ing
been made more than two years after the cause of action
accrued was barred by the statute of limitations contained
in § 6 of the federal act. The statute having been

