592

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

that the rate was based upon the value is to be presumed
from the terms of the bill of lading and of the published
schedules filed with the Commission." Adams Express
Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 1491,'508-509, 510, Having
accepted the benefit of the lower rate dependent upon the
specified valuation, the Tespondent is estopped from as.serting a higher value. To allow him to do so would be
to violate the plainest principles of fair dealing. Hart v.
Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 112 U. S. 331, 340; Adams Express CO. v. Croninger,sipra. In Kansas City Southern
Ry. Co. v. Carl, supra,this Court said: "To permit such
a declared valuation' to be overthrown by evidence
aliunde the contract, for the -purpose of enabling the shipper to obtain a recovery in a suit for loss or damage
in excess of the maximum valuation thus fixed, would
both encourage and reward -undervaluations and-bring
about preferences and discriminations forbidden by the
law. Such a result would neither be just nor conducive
to sound morals or wise policies."
The judgment of the state appellate court is reversed
and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.,
Reversed.
HILL ET AL., EXECUTORS OF HILL, v. SMITH.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.

No' 164. Argued .January 3, 1923.-Decided January 15, 1923.
1. A federal question which was treated as open, and decided, by the
State Supreme Court, will be reviewed here without inquiring
whether its federal character was adequately called to the attention
of the state trial court. P. 594.
2. A question of burden of proof may amount to a federal question
when intimately involving substantive rights under a federal statute. P. 594.

HILL v. SMITH.
592

Opinion of the Court.

3. The burden of proof is one thing and the necessity of producing
evidence to meet that already produced another. P. 594.
4. A creditor who would avoid the effect of a discharge under the
Bankruptcy Act upon the ground that the debt was not scheduled,
with his name, must prove himself within that exception, and the
debtor who*would excuse the omission 6f the creditor's name.upon
the ground that the creditor had notice or actual knowledge of the
bankruptcy proceedings must prove himself within that exception
to the exception. P. 594.
232 Mass. 188, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Superior Court of
Massachusetts, entered on a finding for the plaintiff made
subject to exceptions, which were overruled by the Supreme Judicial Court, in an action on a judgment.
Mr. George S. Fuller,with whom Mr. Edward E. Blodgett and Mr. Irving F. Carpenter were on the brief, for
petitioners.
Mr. Edward F. McClennen, with whom Mr. Allison L.
Newton was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. J-USTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit upon a judgment. The defendant, Warren H. Hill, pleaded a discharge in bankruptcy. Subsequently he died and his executors, the petitioners, took
his place. There was a trial before a judge without a
jury. The plaintiff introduced proof that the judgment
was unsatisfied and rested. The defendants proved the
discharge and rested. In rebuttal the plaintiff introduced
the schedules of creditors in bankruptcy of Hill in which
schedules the plaintiff's name did not appear. The defendants asked for rulings that the burden was upon the
plaintiff to show that he was not notified of the defendant's bankruptcy and that he had no knowledge of it.
45646°o23-38

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of 'the Court.

260 U. S.

These were refused subject to exceptions and the Court
found for the plaintiff. The exceptions were overruled by
the Supreme' Judicial Court and judgment was entered
upon the finding. 232 Mass. 188. A writ of*certiorari
was allowed by this Court.
Itis argued for the respondent that there is no jurisdiction in this.Court because the attention of the trial judge.
was not called specifically to the Bankruptcy Act as a
ground for the rulings asked, and because, even if it had
been, itis said, the burden of proof is to be determined by
the practice of the State. As we are of opinion that the
judgment was right we shall not discuss these objections
at length. We deem it enough to say, as to the first, that
the appellate Court treated, the question as open and
decided it; and as to the second that here as in Central
Vermont Ry. Co. v. White, 238 U. S.-07, though perhaps
in a somewhat less intimate and obvious way, the burden
of proof is So connected with the substantive rights given
to the respective parties by the statute--inde-d so flows
from the words. of the, statute-Lthat the ruling upon it
may be reviewed here.
The merits were fully and adequately discussed by the
Supreme Judicial Court. In order to dispose of them it
will not-be necessary to repeat the distinction, familiar in
Massachusetts since the time of Chief Justice Shaw,
Powers v. Russell, 13 Pick. 69,: and- elaborated in the.
opinion below, between the burden of proof and the necessity of producing evidence to meet that already produced. The distinction is now very generally accepted,
although often blurred by careless speech. Thayer, Preliminary Treatise on Evidence, c. 9.-The Bankruptcy
Act of July 1, 1898, c. 541, § 17a(3), 30 Stat. 550,
amended, Act of Feburary 5, 1903, c. 487? § 5, 32 Stat.
798, provides that a discharge "shall release a bankrupt
from all of his provable debts, .'kcept such as . . .
(3) have not been duly scheduled in time for proof--nd
-

HILL v. SMITH.
592

595

Opinion of the Court.

allowance, with the name of the creditor if known to the
bankrupt, unless such creditor had notice or actual knowledge of the proceedings in bankruptcy." (The Amendment of March- 2, 1917, c. 153, 39 Stat. 999, does not
change this language, and was adopted after the discharge.) By the -very form of the law the debtor is discharged subject to an exception, and one who would
bring himself within the exception must offer evidence to
do so. Kreitlein v. Ferger,238 U.S. 21,26. McKelvey v.
United &tates,ante, 353. But there is an exception to the
exception, "unless the creditor had notice," &c., and, by
the same principle if the debtor would get the benefit of
that heimust offer, evidence to show his right. We agree.
with the Court below that justice and the purpose of the
section justify the technical rule that if the debtor would
avoid the effect-of his omission of a creditor's name from
his schedules he must prove the facts upon which he
relies.
The petitioners urge two further objections. They say
that it did not appear that the debtor knew the name of
his creditor.* The trial jifdge was warranted in inferring
that when a judgment had been recovered against him in
Boston, where he lived, he knew the name of the man who
recovered it and who lived hard by. Again, they say that
the debt may have been scheduled under some other
name. The judge had the'schedule before him and for all
that appears well may have inferred that it was not. But
we cannot treat these questions as open. The Supreme
Judicial Court stated that the questions presented related
wholly to the burden of proof and it was said at the argument and not denied that in their brief before that Court
the petitioners asserted that the sole issue was on the
refusal to give the requests stated above. That is all that
is before us now, although we have been unwilling to let
the petitioners suppose that were it otherwise they would
be better off.

Judgment affirmed.

