OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

terms to be exercised -in the public welfare, and a wide
discretion is accorded it which is not constrained by peremptory directions. ' The'powers are quasi legislative, the
public welfare being their test and measure. State ex rel.
Swearingen v. Railroad Commissioners, 79 Fla. 526, 532.
There is nothing in the Words " excessive charges" in:
§ 30 of Article XVI, nor. in their context, that requires
the -regulation of the charges to be downward and not
,upward, if the charges auth6rized be not excessive.
Necessarily, therefore, we affirm the action of the District Court; but 'while this' denies the relief the Ortega,
Company. prays against appellee, we do not wish to be
understood as adjudging that the Company may not be
entitled to some remedy for the non-observance of the
contract by the Traction Company. 'See Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co. v. Crowe; 156 Ky. 27.
Affirmed.
BRATTON ET AL. v. CHANDLER ET AL., INDIVIDUALLY AND AS COPARTNERS UNDER THE
FIRM NAME OF CHANDLER & WALDEN, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 239. Argued October 10, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. A statute must be construed, if fairly possible, so as to avoid not
only' the, conclusion that- it is unconstitutional, but also grave
doubts upon that score. P. 114.
2. The law of Tennessee providing for licensing real estate brokers
and salesmen and creating a real estate commission, where it
require and procure" proof of the
authorizes the commission to ",
honesty, etc., of any applicant, before issuing him a license (Laws
1921, c. 98, § 8), does not contemplate that such-proof may be
procured by the commission secretly, without giving. the applicant
notice or opportunity to learn its nature and-source and to meet
it. P. 114.

Reversed;

BRATTON v. CHANDLER.
110

ill "

Opinion of the Court.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court granting a
temporary injunction restraining the appellant state officials from executing, as respects the appellees, a statute
requiring real estate brokers to obtain licenses.
Mr. M. M. Neil and Mr. Nathan William MacChesney,
with whom Mr. Frank M. Thompson, Attorney General
of the State of Tennessee, Mr. Thomas H. Jackson and
Mr. James L. McRee were on the briefs, for appellants.
Mr. Elias Gates, with whom Mr. Julian C. Wilson and
Mr. Walter P. Armstrong were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The appellees, as complainants in the District Court in
their capacity as copartners, or as individuals, assailed the
constitutionality under the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States, of a statute of
Tennessee passed in 1921, entitled, "An Act to define,
regulate and license real estate brokers and real estate
salesmen; to create a State Real Estate Commission, and
to provide a penalty for a violation of the provisions
hereof." Pub. Acts, 1921, c. 98.
Appellants Bratton, Adams and Brownlow were appointed Commissioners under the act, and they and the
appellant Bates, as Attorney General of Shelby County,
or as District Attorney General (he is described as the
latter in the answer) of the County, were, it is alleged,
charged with the duty of enforcing the act.
The pleadings are very elaborate and need not be reproduced. The court restrained the execution of the
statute until its further order, basing its action upon the
provisions of the statute, which the court decided did not
afford to applicants for licenses due process of law.' To
review the order and the grounds'of it, this appeal is
directed.

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

The act constitutes a Commission to-be appointed by
the Governor of the State, and in twenty-one sections
defines the powers and duties of the Commission, the
qualifications of applicants for licenses, and the procedure
they must observe.
The District Court (three judges sitting) gave a very
studious and comprehensive consideration' to the provisions of the act, but rested it decision adverse tW the
constitutionality of the act upon § 8. The determining
pert inenci of the section the court expressed by saying
that "the first' step in the proposed regulation" of the
real estate business "is the granting and issuing of
licenses as provided in Section 8" of the act. That "section gives color and purpose to every other section in the
Act and without which the other sections would be meaningless."
We may then accept the controlling and comprehensive
effect of the section and concentrate attention and decision upon it, pretermitting all otheris, or tomment upon
them.
The condemning comment of the court was that § 8
authorized the Commission, not only to require an applicant to furnish evidence of his qualifications, but to procure independently of the applicant Any proof it may
deem desirable, and this "ithout any provision for'notice
or opportunity to meet the evidence so procured, nor even
to be advised of the nature or source of the evidence.
Because of this'delinquency, the court-was of opinion that
tle act did not afford due process of law and was, therefore, unconstitutional and void.
Are the comment and conclusion justified? The section requires an application for a license to be made in
writing and provides, with circumstantial detail, what it
shall contain, and concludes as follows: "The Commission is hereby authorized to require and procure [italics
ours] any and all satisfactory uroof as shall be deemed

BRATTON v. CHANDLER.
* 110

113

Opinion of the Court.

desirable in reference to the honesty, truthfulness, reputation and competency of any applicant for'a real estate
broker's or salesman's license, or, of any of the officers or
members of any such applicant, prior to the issuance of
any such license. The Commission is expressly vested
with the power and authority to make, prescribe and
zenforce any and all such rules and .regulations connected
with the application for any license, as shall be deemed
necessary to administer and enforce the provisions of this
Act."
The District Court, in further comment upon the provision, expressed a doubt that any rulings or regulations
that might be promulgated by the Commission woulal
cure the defect of the statute and added, "however, that
question is not here presented, for it does not appear
from the pleadings in this case that any such rules have
been promulgated though the Commission is functioning
in manner and form as authorized by the statute."
So determined was the court in the view it had of § 8,
that it rejected the immunity which § 19 gave from the
unconstitutionality which might taint any section or provision of the act from extending to other sections or provisions. "Be it further enacted," is the declaration of
§ 19, "That should the courts declare any section or provision of this Act unconstitutional, such decision shall
affect only the section or provision so declared to be unconstitutional, and shall not affect any other section or
part of this Act."
The court justified its rejection of § 19 because, in its
view, the section had "no application in determining the
validity of the sections in which the unconstitutional provision is found." To this conclusion the court considered
itself constrained because, to eliminate the offensive part
of § 8 "would emasculate the entire section," and the.
Commission "would be a mere automaton without authority to determine the fundamental questions of the
45646°-23-8

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

-

260 U. S.

right of the applicant for a license," because it would be
confined to and be compelled to accept as conclusive, the
evidence presented by the applicant, which the court considered "was not the legislative intent." And hence the
court's conclusion wAs that § 8 was "so closely related to
the valid sections that without it they could serve no purpose within the contemplation of the legislature ", citing
Weaver v. Davidson County, 104 Tenn. 315; Connolly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 565.
The views of the court are stated with great force, but
we are unable to yield to them-their reasoning or conclusions. By § 8, as we have said, the Commission is
'! authorized to requireand procure [italics ours] any and
all satisfactory proof as shall be deemed desirable in reference" to the conditions and qualifications of applicants
for licenses. The words are "require and procure." They
seem to have independent and- cumulative meaning, one
demanding publicity, the other permitting secrecy. But
to this possibility we are not disposed; we prefer the
admonition of the cases and their decision as expressed
in United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394, 401, as
follows: "A statute mustbe construed, if fairly possible,
so as to avoid not only the conclusion that it is unconstitutional but also grave doubts upon that score. - United
States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 408."
In the cited case the admonition is said to express an
elementary rule; and we think the statute of Tennessee
attracts, instead of repels, the admonition. The statute
is drawn with cdre to details and their importance, importance to the business regulated and the persons who will
desire to engage in it; action under it was intended, therefore, to be open and direct, not to be remitted in any part
to secrecy, prejudice or intrigue.
In conclusion, we may say, that if the word " procure"
is more than a tautological repetition of the word
"require", it was only to confer the power of affirmative

DUESENBERG MOTORS CORP. v. U. S.
110

Syllabus.

direction upon the Commission, necessarily to be exercised
in supplement to the action of the applicant and with the
same'publicity and opportunity of the applicant to meet
adverse evidence. And the act., construed as we construe
it, will take no power from the Comrmission necessary to
the performance of its duties, and will leave no power with
it that it can exercise to the detriment of any rightassured to an applicant for a license by the Constitution

of the United States.
The decree of the court ordering the issuance of a temporary injunction is

Reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
DUESENBERG

MOTORS

CORPORATION

v.

UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM0, THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 80. Argued October 19, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. A contractor who incurred expense under a contract to manufacture articles for the Government for use in the late war, Lut whosQ
opportunity to perform and earn the contemplated profits was
cut short by the sudden cessation of hostilities, the declaration of
the armistice and- the consequent termination of the contract in
accordance with its terms, took the chances of this contingency and
cannot recover damages. P. 124.
2. Held, in this case, that delay of the Government in furnishing
necessary specifications as contemplated by a contract for the manufacture of air-plane motors of a foreign model, due to an honest
but mistaken belief, shared by the contractor, that the model was
perfected and adequate specifications in existence, was not an
actionable breach of .representation, in view of the conduct and
dealings of the parties for the expedition of the work, the absencb
of any protest over the delay. and the absence of averment thaj it
prevented the contractor -from being fully occupied with preparatory and other work under. the contract. P. 123.

