KEOKUK & HAMILTON BRIDGE CO. v. U. S.
115

125

Statement of the Case.

ous situation and tremendous responsibilities, but such
was not the situation of the contraitor. Time to perform its contract was all that was necessary to it, and but
for the armistice it would have had time. If the armistice could have been foreseen, th4 relative situations
might have been different. Expedition would not then
have been exigent to the Government's purposes, but
would then have been necessary to the contractor, if profits
were to be realized from the production of the motors.
There was no prophecy of the armistice-its sudden happening terminated the further execution of the contractor's undertaking, preventing, as we have said, the
,realization of profits. And, we repeat, this chance the
contractor took and must abide the result.
Judgment affirmed.
KEOKUK & HAMILTON BRIDGE COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 58. Argued October 13, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.

1 The Court will not refxamine the findings of fact made by the
Court of Claims upon evidence. P. 126.
2. An unintentional injury to a bridge pier in the makiig of navigation improvements by the Government, held at most in the'nature

of a tort, and not a taking of property by the United States for
which damages might be recovered on the' theory. of contract.

P. 126.
55 Ct..Cims. 480,.affirmed.
Ai,'.AL from a judgment of the Court of Claims disL
mi ing the petition in an action to recover the value of
a pier, alleged to have been destroyed, and hence talon,
by the act of the United States.
*

Mr. F. T. Hughes, for appellait -gu nittded.

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

Mr. Solicitor General Beck for the Upited States.
MR. JUSTiC
Court.

HOIo
I

s delivered the opinion of the

The appellant had an authorized bridge across the Mississippi River with a pivot pier and draw to permit the
passage of vessels. As a necessary incident it maintained
what is called a protection pier extending down stream.
In consequence of later authorized constructions it became necessary to deepen the channel on the easterly side
of the pier, and the part of this work with which wIe are
concerned was done by the United States. The bead of
the stream by the side of the pier .wassolid rock and into
this the United States drilled and blasted it with dynamite. The work was done in the usual w a ind with
more than ordinary care; but by the action of the water
driven upon the pier- by the blasts, and possibly by the
concussion of the blasts themselves, portions of the pier
fell into the river, and some damage was inflicted. It
could have been repaired for $1,000. The Company however rebuilt the bridge to fit it for heavier traffic, and
brought this suit'alleging that the pier was destroyed and
in that way taken by the United States.
An appreciable part of the claimant's argument consists
in an attempt to reopen the findings .of fact and to maintain that the pier was destroyed, as giving more force to
the contention that it was taken.. This, of course, is vain.
tUnion Pacific Ry. Co.v. United States, 116 U. S. 154.
Talbert v. United States, 155 U. S. 45. .We must assume,
as we have stated from the findings of -the Court of
Claims, that the pier was not destroyed but simply was
damaged in a way that could haveiieen repaired- for a
moderate sum. However small the damage, "it' may be
true that deliberatd action in some cases might generate
the same claim as other forms of deliberate withdrawal of
property from the admitted owner. United States v.

McKEE v. GRATZ.
125

127

Syllabus.

Cress, 243 U. S. 316, 329. But without considering how
the line would be drawn, when such action took place in
the improvement of navigation, it is enough to say that,
this is an ordinary case of incidental damage which if
inflicted by a p-ivate individual might be a tort but which
could be nothing else. In such cases there is no remedy
against the United States. See Bedford v. United States,
192 U. S. 217, 224.
Judgment affirmed.

McKEE ET AL. v. GRATZ.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 61. Argued October 13, 16, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. The Missouri statute declaring that title to all birds, game and
fish shall be in the State, Rev. Stats. Mo. 1909, § 6508; 1919,
§ 5581; speaks only in aid of the State's power of regulation, leaving the land owner's property in these things otherwise unaffected.
P. 135.
2. Unlike wild birds and fish, live mussels, which have! practically a
fixed habitat in the bottom of a stream and little ability to move,
are in the possession of the owner of the land, as are, even more
obviously, the shells taken from such mussels and piled 'upon the
bank. P. 135.
3. Such possession is enough to warrant recovery of stbstantial damages for conversion by a trespasser. P. 136.
4. But a license to take such mussels from uninclosed and uninhabited
places may be implied from custom, the more readily where statutory prohibitions are limited to enclosed and cultivated land and
private ponds, as by Rev. Stats. Mo. 1919, § 5662, 3654. ' P. 136.
5. The existence of such custom ane license, and -whether it extends
beyond occasional uses to systematic extraction of mussels in large
quantities for commercial purpose, held, for the jury. P. 136.
6. Live musls in %streaimare iot part of. the realty within the
meaning of Rev. Stats. Mo. 1909, § 5448; 1919, § 4242, allowing
triple damages in certain cases for the digging up and carrying away

