SIOUX CITY BRIDGE v. DAKOTA COUNTY.

441

Opinion of the Court.

SIOUX CITY BRIDGE COMPANY v. DAKOTA
COUNTY, NEBRASKA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME

COURT

OF THE STATE

OF

NEBRASKA.

No. 105. Argued November 20, 1922.-Decided January 2, 1923.
1. Intentional and arbitrary assessment of the property of one
owner for taxation at its true value, in accordance with the state
constitution and laws, while all other like property-is systematically assessed much lower, is a violation of the equal protection of
the laws. ,P. 445.
2. The owner aggrieved by this discrimination is entitled to have
his assessment reduced to the common level, since by no judicial
proceeding can he compel reassessment of the great mass of such
property at its true value as the law requires. P. 446.
3. Mere errors of judgment in fixin an assessment do not support
a claim of discrimination; there must be in effect an intentional
violation of the principle of practical uniformity. P. 447.
105 Neb. 843, reversed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Nebraska, affirming a judgment of a lower court which
dismissed an appeal from action of a board of equalization, fixing an assessment for taxation.
Mr. F. W. Sargent, with whom Mr. Wymer Dressler
and Mr.R.N. Van Doren were on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. R. A. Van Orsdel, with whom Mr. George W.
Learner and Mr. J. W. MeGan were on the brief, for.
respondent.
Mi. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case is lhere by writ of certiorari to the Supreme
Court of Nebraska. The question is whether the taxing
authorities of the -State of Nebraska and of Dakota
County in assessing taxes against the'petitioner, the Sioux

442

OCTOBER TERM, i922.
Opinion of the Court.

-

260 U. S.

City Bridge Company, upon that part of itsbridge across
the Missouri River at South Sioux City, which is in'the
jurisdiction of Nebraska, deprived the- Bridge Company
of due process of law and denied it the equal protection
of the laws in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
For- a, number of years before 1918, the Bridge Company had returned the Nebraska part of the bridge for
taxation at $600,000. In -that year the assessor of Dakota
County sent, the blank return to the Bridge Company as
usual, but the Bridge Company sent back the proposed
return,, refusing to sign, and insisting that the valuation
was too high. The assessor then returned the bridge at
$600,000 as formerly.: The Bridge .Company appealed to
the-Board of Equalization of the county. Only the counsel for the Bridge Company and for the city of South
Sioux City appeared. No witnesses were called and nc
evidence produced,but the Board of Equalization, on the
appeal of the Bridge Company for reduction, raised the
assessment above that of the assessor $100,000. From
this ruling an appeal was taken to the District Court of
Dakota County for relief against the action of the Board
of Equalization on the ground that the- valuation was
excessive, was without evidence and arbitrary, that it violated the constitution of the State requiring a uniformity
of taxing burdens, and' that it deprived the Bridge Company of due process and equal protection of the law as
forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Seventy-four, per qent. of the total value of the bridgeis in Dakota County, Nebraska, and twenty-si, per cent.
is in Iowa. The original cost of the bridge was $941,000,
but some wooden-trestles in the original construction were
taken out and steel substituted and this increased' the
original cost to $1,022 ,000. The bridge was built in 1888.
Since 1907 it has been under lease to two railroads and
jointly they maintain the bridge, pay the taxes and 8 per
cent. on the original cost of $945,800. The leases are

SIOUX QITY BRIDGE v. DAKOTA COUNTY.
441

443

Opinion of the Court.

short-time leases because the bridge while in good repair
is too light for modern traffic and can only b6 used under
burdensome and expensive restrictions. One of the railroad companies has made soundings for a new bridge.
The engineers report the existing bridge to be totally out
of date and estimate a depreciation in its value on thisaccount of $300,000* from its original cost. The same
witnesses testified that to build the bridge just as it was
would cost at present prices from $1,300,000 to $1,500,000,
but that it would 'e most foolish to build a bridge of
that old type now.
A tax commissioner of one of the lessee railroads, with
long experience in taxation and valuation, testified that
from an examination of the sales of real estate as shown
by deeds of record in Nebraska- and in Dakota County
and the tax list, the acre property in Dakota County was
assessed at 55.70 per bent. of its value, that improvements
in city pioperty were assessed at 49.29 per cent. of their
selling value, and had been so assessed for seven years.
The county assessor thought such sales were not best
evidence of true value in money and denied that there
was any attempt to value at less than such value.
The District Court held the reasonable value of the
bridge in Nebraska to be more that $700,000 as assessed
and dismissed the appeal. It made no finding upon tho
issue as to whether there was an undervaluation of other
real estate and improvements in Dakota County or the
State and did not refer to it..
The Bridge Company carried the case on appeal to the
Supreme Court. That court found from the evidence
that $700,000 as the true value was not so manifestly
wrong that it was justified in disturbing the assessment.
Taking up the objection that the real property and
improvements were unldervalued in Dakota County, the
court said:
"It is finally urged that this court should, reduce the
true value of the bridge as found by the court to 55

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

per bent. of suchvalue, for the reason that other property
in the district is assessed at 55 per cent. of its true value,
and that-it would be ,manifestly unjust to appellant to
-assess its property at its true value while other property
in the'district is assessed at 55 per cent. of its value.
S""While 'undoubtedly the law contemplates that there
should be equality in taxation, we 1 are of the view that
the plan of equalization proposed by appellant is. not
the proper remedy. The rule is 'now settled by a recent
decision of this court that when property ,isassessed at
its true value, and other property in the district is
assessed below its true value, the proper remedy is to
have the property assessed below its true value raised,
rather than to have property assessed at its true value
reduced.. Lincoln Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Johnson
.County, 102 Neb.-254. In .he argument of appellant
the soundness of this ruling is assailed, and authorities
in other jurisdictions are cited which seem at variance
with ourholding. We are hot willing, however, to recede
from the rule of that case."
I Section 1, Article IX, of the Constitution of Nebraska,
contains the following:
"The Legislature shall provide such revenue as may be
needful, by leyying a tax by valuation, so that every
person and corporatio'n shall pay a tax in proportion to
fthe value of his, her or its property and frafichises, the
*value-to be ascertained in such manner as the Legislature
shall direct. . .
Section 6300- of the Revised Statutes of Nebraska,
1913, :provides: '
"All property in this state not expressly exempt therefrom' shall-be subject to'taxation, and shall.be valued at
its actual value which shall be entered opposite each
item and shall be assessed at twenty per cent. of such
actual value. Such assessed value shall be entered in
separate cblumn opposite each item, and shall be takeff

SIOUX CITY BRIDGE v. DAKOTA COUNTY.
441

445

Opinion of the Court.

and considered as the taxable value of such property, and
the value at which it shall be listed and upon which the
levy shall be made. Actual value as used in this chapter shall mean its value in the market in the ordinary
course of trade."
In the case of Sunday Lake Iron Co. v. Wakefield, 247
U. S. 350, 352, 353, this Court said:
"The purpose of the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment is 'to secure every person within
the State's jurisdiction against intentional and arbitrary
discrimination, whether occasioned by express terms of
a statute or by its improper execution through 'duly constituted agents. And it must be regarded as settled that
intentional systematic undervaluation by state-officials
of other taxable property in the same c1ss contravenes
the constitutiQnal right of one taxed upon the full value.
-of his property:'%Raymond v. Chicago Union Traction
Co., 207 U. S. 20,735, 37." Analogous cases are Greene
v. Louisville & InterurbanR. R. Co., 244 U. S.499, 516,
517, 518; Cummings v. National Bank, 101 U. S. 153,
160; Taylor v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 88 Fed.
350, 364, 365, 372, 374; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.'
v. Bosworth, 209 Fed. 380, 452; Washington Water Power
Co. v. Kootenai Coiunty, 270 Fed. 369, 374.
The charge made by the Bridge Company in this case
was th at the State through its duly constituted agents,
to wit, the county 'assessor and the County Board of
Eiualization, improperly executed the constitution and
taxing laws of the State and intentionally and arbitrarily
assessed the Bridge Company's property at 100 per cent,
of its true value and all the other real estate and its
improvements in the county at 55 per cent.
The Supreme Court does not make it clear whether it
thinks the dis.crimination charged was proved or not, but
assuming the discrimination, it holds that the Bridge.
Company has no remedy except "to have the property

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

assessed below its true value raised, rather than to have
property assessed at its true value reduced." The dilemma presented by a case where one or a few of a class
of taxpayers are assessed at 100 per cent. of the value
of their property in accord with a constitutional or- statutory requirement, and the rest of the class are intentionally assessed at a much lower percentage in violation
of the law, has been often dealt with by courts and
there has been a conflict of view as to what should be
done. There is no doubt, however, of the view taken
of such cases by the federal courts in the enforcement of
the uniformity clauses of state statutes and constitutions
and of the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The exact question was' considered at
length by the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Sixth Circuit in the case of Taylor v. Louisville & Nashville R. R.
Co., 88 Fed. 350, 364, 365, and the language of that court
was approved and incorporated in the decision of this
Court in Greene v. Louisville & Interurban R. R. Co.,
244 U. S. 499, 516, 517, 518. The conclusion in these
and other federal authorities is that such a result as that
reached by the Supreme Court of Nebraska is to deny
the injured taxpayer any remedy at all because it is
utterlyimpossible for him by any judicial proceeding to
secure an increase in the assessment of the great mass of
under-assessed property in the taxing district. This
Court holds that the right of the taxpayer whose property alone is taxed at 100 per cent. of its true value is to
have his assessment reduced to the percentage of that
value at which others are taxed even though this is a
departure from the requirement of statute. The conclusion is based on the principle that where it is impossible to' secure both the standard of the true value, and
the uniformity and equality required by law, the latter
•requirement-is to be preferred as the just and ultimate
purpose of the law. In substance and effect the decision

WALKER v. GISH.
441

Syllabus.

of the Nebraska Supreme Court in this case upholds the
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the injury of
the Bridge Company. We must,. therefore, reverse its
judgment.
But we construe the action of the court not to be
equivalent to a finding that such intentional discrimination existed between the valuation of the Bridge Company's property and that of all other real property and
improvements in the county, but rather a-ruling that
even if it did exist, the Bridge Company must continue
to pay taxes on a full 100 per cent. valuation of its property. It was on the same principle, doubtless, that the
District Court ignored the issue of discrimination altogether. It is therefore just that upon reversal we shQuld
remand the case for a further hearing upon the issue of
discrimination, inviting attention to the well-established
rul6 in the decisions of this Court, cited above, that mere
errors of judgment do not support a claim of discrimination, but that there must be something more-something
which in effect amounts'to afA intentional violation of the
essential principle of practical uniformity. Sunday Lae
Iron Co. v. Wakefield, 247 U. S. 350, 353.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska is
reversed and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
WALKER v. GISH.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 135. Argued November 28, 29, 1922.-Decided January 2, 1923.
1. The rule allowing a lot-owner to erect a party wall on the lot line,
-and obliging his neighbor, if he use it, to pay part .of the cost, is
a condition attached to the lots within the original Federal City
under the powers granted by the briginal proprietors of the land;

