212

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
260 U. S.

Syllabus.

ordered removed by the Secretary of War. His order for
their removal was complied with, and the channel was
left by petitioners wholly unobstructed, in law and in
fact. The obstruction did not develop until years afterward and was due to causes which they were not bound
to anticipate and provide against and for which they were'
in no degree responsible.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is therefore
reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.
_

_

_Reversed.

CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH
COMPANY v. LOUISIANA PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 650. Argued on retuin to rule to show cause why supersedeas
and injunction should not be set aside and injunction
dissolved, November 13, 1922.-Decided November 20,
1922.
1. Upon appeal from an order merely refusing a preliminary injunction, under Jud. Code, § 266, there is nothing upon Ahich a
supersedeas may operate. P. 215.
2. UnderJud. Code, § 266, a single judge in allowing an appeal from
an order of the District Court, constituted of three judges, denying a preliminary injunction, is without power to grant a continuance of a temporary restraining order pending the appeal, and his
order to that effect is void. P. 216.
3. Equity Rule 74, which 'authorizes a justice or judge who took
part in a decision granting or dissolving an injunction to suspend,
modify, or restore the injunction pending appeal, does not apply to
an appeal from an order refusing a. preliminary injunction under
Jud. Code, § 266. P. 217.
4. Where an interlocutory injunction has been refused in a case
goyerned by Jud. Code, § 266, an application for injunction pending appeal must be presented to the three judges, and, except in

CUMBERLAND TEL. CO. v. PUB. SERV. COMM. 213
212

Argument for Appellant.

extraordinary circumstances, only after notice; and its allowance
must be evidenced by their signatures or by announcement in open
court with the three judges sitting, followed by a formal order
tested as they direct. P. 218.
5. The granting of such an injunction, pending appeal, is within the
power- of this Court, but application therefor will generally be referred to the court of three judges who heard the case upon its
merits and are familiar with the rccord. P. 219.

MOTION by the appellees to set aside an order of supersedeas and injunction granted by a District Judge in connection with an appeal from an order of the District
Court, constituted of three judges, refusing an interlocutory injunction in appellant's suit to enjoin appellees,
members of a state commission, from reducing its rates
for telephone service. Application to this Court by appellant for an injunction maintaining the status quo. For
the opinion of the court below denying the interlocutory
injunction, see 283 Fed. 215.
Mr. J. Blanc Monroe, with whom Mr. Jas. C.. Henriques, Mr. Monte M. Lemann, Mr. C. M. Bracelen, Mr.
Hunt Chipley and Mr. E. D. Smith were on the brief, for
appellant.
In a case in which irreparable injury will otherwise
ensue, the enforcement of an order of a state administrative commission can and should be stayed pending an appeal to this Court from ' decree of a three-judge court
denying a preliminary injunction of that order. Southern
Ry. Co. v,. Watts, 259 U. S. 576; Hovey v. McDonald, 109
U. S. 161; Omaha & Council Bluffs Street Ry. Co. v.
Interstate Commerce Commission, 222 U. S. 582; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Siler, 186 Fed. 176; Ohio
River & WT'. Ry. Co. v. Dittey, 203 Fed. 537; Grand Trunlk
Ry. Co. v. Michigan R. R. Commission, 198 Fed. 1.009;
Phoenix Ry. Co. v. Geary, 209 Fed. 694; s. c. 239 U. S.
277, 281; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Railroad
Commission, 208 Fed. 35.

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Cou'rt.

260 U. S.

While the stay order in this case was signed by one
ju'dge, that signing was done with the knowledge and consent of the other two judges of the three-judge court.
In the circuit in which this case originated, it is the
practice for the judge in whose district the case arises to
sign the order for stay and supersedeas When the three
judges decline the preliminary injunction.
Mr. Huey -'. Long, with whom Mr. W. M. Barrow Was
on the brief, for appellees.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE T.AFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a motion by the appellees to set aside the supersedeas and injunction granted by District Judge Foster
at the time he allowdd an appeal from an order of three
judges, Circuit Judge Bryan, District Judge Clayton, and
himself, denying an application for an interlocutory injunction under § 266 of t-he Judicial Code.
The original bill was filed by the Cumberland Telephone and Telegraph Company against the Louisiana
Public Service Commission seeking an injunction to prevent the latter, a State Board of competent authority,
from reducing the existing telephone rates, as it proposed,
on the ground that such action would compel the plaintiff
to furnish service at rates which would be confiscatory and
violate its rights secured by the Fourteenth Amendment.
District Judge Foster granted a restraining order as permitted by § 266, to remain in force until the application
for an interlocutory injunction could be heard by three
judges. The court, thus constituted, heard the applicatioh on voluminous' evidence, and denied the application,
Judge Foster dissenting. Upon the entry of the order, the
complainant applied to the District Court for an appeal
and for an irnjunction against the defendant Commission,
until the determination of the cause on appeL--District

CUMBERLAND TEL. CO. v. PUB. SERV. COMM. 215
212

Opinion of the Court.

Judge Foster, sitting alone, made an order in the District
Court allowing the appeal, granted a supersedeas and continued the original restraining order, made by him before
the hearing by the three judges, until the appeal could be
determined, in order to maintain the status quo. A bond
was required in $100,000, which is conditioned that appellant shall prosecute iti appeal to effect and answer all
damages and costs if it fails to make its plea good and
also that'it shall repay to defendants such damages as
they my suffer and "for the repayment to plaintiff's
subscribers, and to each of them, of the excess charges
collected from each of said subscribers as a result of the
issuance and continuance of the preliminary restraining
order issued herein, over aid above what would have been
collected from said subscribers had said restraining order
not been rendered, the said repayment to be made as,
when, and if it shall-have been finally determined herein
that the order of the Louisiana Public Service Commission of May 13, 1922, is a legal order binding upon the
plaintiff herein."
The present motion is to set aside the supersedeas and
the -estraining order. That was the form of the application in the original proceeding for mandamus, which by
order of the court has been treated in argument as a
motion on this appeal. So far as the supersedeas, to
which the motion is directed, is concerned, it had no
effect, because there was nothing to supersede, except
an execution for costs, and that was suspended by the
mere allowance of the appeal. There was no decree for
money, there was no decree at all in favor of the complainants upon which execution could issue. Hovey v.
McDonald, 109 U. S. 150, 160. The supersedeas would
not continue the injunction or maintain the status quo
ante of restraint upon the defendant. Slaughter.House
Cases, 10 Wall. 273, 297; Hovey v. McDonald, supra, 161;
Leonard v. Ozark Land Co., 115 U. S. 465, 468; Knox

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

County v. Harshman, 132 U. S. 14, 16; Merrimack River
Savings Bank v. Clay Center, 219 U. S. 527. The effective patt of the order of Judge Foster, if valid, was
the continuance of the restraining order, which is called
in the motion and argument the injunction. The motion
to set this aside must be granted,
Section 266 of the Judicial Code is a iodification of § 17
of the Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 557, amended
by the Act of March 3, 1913, c. 160, 37 Stat. 1013. The
legislation was enacted for the manifest purpose of taking
away the power of a single United States Judge, whether
District Judge, Circuit Judge or Circuit Justice holding
a District Court of the United States, to issue an interlocutory injunction against the execution of a state statute by a state officer or of an order of an administrative
board of the State pursuant to a state statute, on the
ground of the federal unconstitutionality of the statute.
Pending the application for an interlocutory injunction,
a single judge may grant a restraining order to be in force
until the hearing of the application, but thereafter, so far
as enjoining the state officers, his power is exhausted.
The wording of the section leaves no doubt that Congress
was by provisions ex industria seeking to make interference by interlocutory injunction from a federal court
with the enforcement of state legislation, regularly enacted and in course of execution, a matter of the adequate
hearing and the full deliberation which the presence of
three judges, one of whom should be a Circuit Justice or
Judge, was likely to secure. It was to prevent the improvident granting of such injunctions by a single judge,
and the possible unnecessary conflict between federal and
state authority always to be deprecated. This Cofirt had
occasion to consider the purport and significance of §
17 of the Act of June 18, 1910, embodied in § 266, in Ex
parte Metropolitan Watef Co., 220 U. S. 539, and there
held that, after a District Judge had granted a preliminary*

CUMBERLAND TEL. CO. v. PUB. SERV. COMM. 217
212

Opinion of the Court.

restraining order in such a case as provided, the same
judge could not set aside his own order; and such act by
him was without jurisdiction. This Court, therefore,
issued a mandamus directing him to annul the order of
vacation. We are of opinion that a single judge has no
power, in view of § 266, to affect the 6peration of the order
of the court constituted by the three judges granting or
denying the interlocutory injunction applied for. To
hold that he may grant a temporary injunction varying
the order of the three judges woftld be to make the legislation a nullity and work the result which Congress was
at great pains to avoid. Arguments to show that the order
only continued the stdtus quo, that a disturbance of it will
work irreparable injury and that the bond herein required
secures all parties in interest are beside the point. This
is a question of statutory power and jurisdiction, not one
of judicial discretion or equitable consideration.
Equity Rule No. 74, which authorizes a justice or judge
who took part in a decision of an equity suit granting or
dissolving an injunction to make an order suspending,
modifying or restoring the injunction pending the appeal
upon proper terms, does not apply to such an appeal or
to such a case as this. This appeal is not from a final de,
cree. It is a special proceeding in which the power of a
single judge is definitely limited.
It is argued that the order of injunction pending the
appeal here was the act of the court of three judges. It is
certain that Judge Foster was the only judge sitting in
the District Court when the ex parte application was
made by complainant company for the allowance of the
appeal, the granting of the injunction and the fixing of
the amount of the bond. It is certain that these orders
were signed only by him and did not purport to be authorized by three judges. The claim is based on a quotation
from remarks made by Judge Foster in overruling the
application made to him by the defendant, the Public

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

Service Commission, to set aside the injunction. The
Judge said:
"Now let us go a little further. Here is a question submitted to three Judges let us say. This is not the action
of an individual judge. The question of supersedeas was
a matter of discussion among the court composed of Judge
Bryan, Judge Clayton and myself, and I showed you, Mr.
Long, [counsel for the Public Commission], Judge Bryan's
letter, in which he says that he thought that the Cumberland Telephone Company would be entitled to a supersedeas in this case, but that was a matter to be taken up by
the District Court, by myself.
"Now, when I granted an appeal with supersedeafs, that
is the action of the court, it is merely a matter of practice that I signed the order. Now that supersedeas
ought always to be granted to prevent irreparable injury."
This statement does not make the order here in question
the act of the three judges. Judge Bryan's letter, so far
as we are able to judge from this reference, was a mere
expression of opinion that Judge Foster as Disfrict Judge
had the power to grant the injunction, an opinion with
which we do not agree. The letter was not an attempt by
Judge Bryan to become a participant in the order. Nor
is there any showing that Judge Clayton took part in the
matter. A discussion in conference of the judges as to the
granting of an injunction pending an appeal before it was
applied for does not supply what is needed to give efficacy
to such order by a single judge. Compliance with the statute requires the assent of the three judges given after the
application is made evidenced by their signatures or an
announcement' in open court with three judges sitting
followed by a formal order tested as they direct. Notice
of application for the injunction to opposing counsel
should be required except in extraordinary circumstances.
We have no proper evidence of the participation of the
three judges in the injunction here and therefore grant the

CUMBERLAND TEL. CO. vr. PUB. SERV. COMM. 219
212

Opinion of the Court.

motion to set it aside as void and made without jurisdiction.
The appellees ask that if we conclude to -set aside the
injunction, we entertain a motion to grant one now to
preserve the status quo. The fact that a majority of the
three judges of the District Court denied the interlocutory injunction suggests the want of merit in the application here. We, of course, appreciate that notwithstanding a denial of an injunction on its merits, a court
may properly find that pending a final determination of
the suit on the merits in a court of last resort, a balance of
convenience may be best secured by maintaining the
status quo and securing an equitable adjustment of the
finally adjudicated rights of all concerned through the
conditions of a bond. Hovey v. McDonald, 109 U. S. 150,
161; Equity Rule No. 74. But the court which is best
and most conveniently able to exercise the nice discretion
needed to determine this balance of convenience is the
one which has considered the case on its merits and, therefore, is familiar with the reiord. Records in cases like
this are often very voluminous. 'Such is the record in this
case. Without abdicating our unquestioned power to
grant such an application as this, and conceding that exceptional cases may arise, we are generally inclined to
refer applications of this kind to the court of three judges
who have heard the whole matter, have read the record,
and can pass on the issue without additional labor. That
was the course taken by this Court in Southern Ry. Co.
v. Watts, 259 U. S. 576. A similar order will be made here.
The action of the District Court thus constituted, however, will not revive or vitalize the order of injunction
granted .ly Judge Foster; for that was void, and the
parties a'ected by it must be left to such course as they
may be aavised. We are not now called upon to construe
or determ:'ine the validity or effect of the bond takei in
that proceeding.

220

OCTOBER .TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

260 U. S,

The orders in this Court will be two:
First." The motion of appellees is granted and the
order of injunction granted by Judge Foster when allowing the appeal is set aside as without jurisdiction.
Second.,. The application to this Court for an injunc-.
tion maintaining the status quo is referred to the District Court constituted of three judges for its determination.
'The costs on this motion willbe taxed to the appellant.

UNITED-STATES v. MINNIE ATKINS, ET AL.
NANCY ATKINS ET AL. v. UNITED STATES, MINNIE FOLK, NE ATKINS, ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
- Nos. 45, 46. Argued October 11, 12, 1922.-Decided November 20,
1922.
An act of the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes in enrolling
a uame as that of a Creek Indian alive on April.1, 1899, amounted,
,when duly approved by -the Secretary of the Interior, to a judgment in an adversary proceeding, establishing the existence of the
individual and his light to membership, and is not subject to be
attacked by the -Unitd States in a suit against those wlo claim
his land allotment, in which the Government, alleges that the
person enrolled never existed and that the enrollment was procured by fraud on the Commission and resulted from gross mis:
tike of law and fact. P. 224.
268 Fed. 923, affirmed.

APPEALS from i decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court in a suit broughtby the United States upon the grounds of fraud and-mistake to cancel an ,enrollment. on the Creek tribal roll
and'an allotment cerfificate and patent issued thereunder,

