BALTO. & OHIO R. R. v. UNITED STATES. 565
561

Counsel *for Parties.

The land had been for many years treated by the officials
of the Government as having been conveyed by the Pitts
patent. The defendants were innocent trespassers within
the rule laid down by this Court in United States v. St.
Anthony R. R. Co., 192 U. S. 524, 542. Moreover, the
case is governed in this respect by the more liberal rule
of the Louisiana Civil Code (Article 501), as interpreted
by the decisions of the highest court of that State. Mason
v. United States, ante, 545.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is affirmed.
BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM TlE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 99. Submitted November 16, 1922.-ecided January 2, 1923.
1. An action to recover money paid as stamp taxes under the Act of
May 12, 1900, as amended June 30, 1902, can not be maintained if
no claim for redemption or allowance was made to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue within the two-year period prescribed
by the act. Rev. Stats., ยง 3226. P. 567.
2. A request to the Commisiioner-for an informal ruling on the taxability of particular deeds, after which stamps were affixed in accordance with the ruling and without-protest, held not a claim
for abatement or refund. P. 567.
56 Ct. Clms. 279, affirmed.

from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing appellant's petition on demurrer.
APPEAL

Mr. George E. Hamilton, Mr. John F. McCarron and
Mr. R. Marsden Smith for appellant.
Mr. golicitor General Beck and Mr. Alfred A. Wheat,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, for the United
States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 II. S.

MIl. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The appellant brought an action in the Court of Claims
against the United States to recover the sum of $55,158,.00, alleged to, have been illegally exacted as stamp
taxes upon thirteen deeds of conveyance made and delivered to appellant by its subsidiary companies. The
deeds were without valuable consideration and were executed for the sole purpose of transferring legal title to
enable appellant to mortgage the property conveyed. On
February 11, 1915, before the -delivery of these deeds,
appellant exhibited three of them to the Commissioner
of 'Internal Revenue and asked 'for a ruling, thereby
making what it alleges was a claim in abatement. Th6
Commissioner held that the Stamp Tax Act applied and
the appellant, without protest, affixed to the thirteen
deeds the requisite amount of stamps.
Four years later the Commissioner, in construing a
similar .act of 1918 held that "where no valuable consideration passed, stamps were not required on conveyances."
Appellant ;thereupon filed with the Commissioner a
claim for refund of the taxes paid which was rejected because barred by the statute' of limitations.
. Appellant now alleges that its claim for a refund constitutes an amendment of its original so-called claim in
abatement. The Court of Claims sustained a demurrer
to -appellant's petition alleging the 'foregoing upon the
ground that the original request to the Commissioner for
a ruling was not a claim either for abatement or refund,
but that the claim for a refund was in- effect first made
in 1919, and, therefore, that the Comnissioner's ruling
was right.
The Act, of May 12, 1900, c. 393, 31 Stat. 177, as
amended by the Act of June 30, 1902, c., 1327, 32 Stat.
506, provides in part:

BALTO. & OHIO R. R. v. UNITED STATES. 567
565

Opinion of the Court.

"That the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, subject
to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, may, upon receipt of -satisfactory evidence of the
facts, make allowance for or iedQem subh of the stamps,
issued under authority of law, to denote the payment of
any internal-revenue tax, as may have been spoiled . . .
or in any manner wrongfully collected ....
Provided
further, That no claim for the redemption of or allowance
for stamps shall be allowedl unless presented within two
years after the purchase of said stamps from the
Government."
By ยง 3226, Rev. Stats., no suit can be maintained in
any court for the recovery of any internal revenue tax
alleged to have been erroneously or illegally collected
until appeal has been made to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, as provided, by law, and the decision of
the Commissioner thereon has been had.
The preliminary request to the Commissioner for an
informal ruling was in no sense a claim for abatement or
refund. Appellant affixed the stamps to the deeds without protest and after that no effort was made to. secure
redemption of or allowance for the stamps until long after
the two-year period had expired.
On the facts alleged in the petition the Court of Claims
could not have done otherwise than sustain the demurrer.
Rock Island, Arkansas & Louisiana R. R. Co. v. United
States, 254 U. S. 141.
The judgineni of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.

