OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
Per Curiam.

366 U. S.

LURK v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF. APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT.

No. 669.

Argued May 4-5, 1961.-Decided May 29, 1961.

Petitioner applied to a Federal Court of Appeals for leave to appeal
in forma pauperis from his robbery conviction, on the ground, inter
alia, that it was unconstitutional because his trial in a Federal District Court was presided over by a retired judge of the Court of
Customs and Patent Appeals, who had retired before 1958. Leave
was denied by the Court of Appeals without opinion. Held: The
judgment is reversed and the case is remanded on the authority of
Ellis v. United States, 356 U. S. 674.
Reversed and remanded.

Eugene Gressman argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
Oscar H. Davis argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General Cox, Assistant Attorney General Miller, Beatrice Rosenberg and
Philip R. Monahan.
By special leave of Court, Francis M. Shea argued the
cause for the Judges of the Court of Claims, as amici
curiae. With him on the brief was Richard T. Conway.
Bennett Boskey filed a brief for Mark Coppedge, Jr., as
amicus curiae, urging reversal.
PER CURIAM.

The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and
the case is remanded to that court. Ellis v. United
States, 356 U. S. 674.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, whom MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE STEWART join, dissenting.

In my view Ellis v. United States, 356 U. S. 674, on
the basis of which the case is sent back to the Court of

LURK v. UNITED STATES.
712

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

Appeals, does not fit the facts and circumstances of this
case.
In support of his contention that he was wrongfully
denied the right to appeal in forma pauperis, petitioner
presents for our consideration two grounds for reversal
of his conviction of robbery in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. The first
contention, concerning the admission at his trial of
allegedly prejudicial evidence, is so lacking in merit as
to be plainly frivolous. It would not justify an appeal
in forma pauperis. But petitioner also raises a jurisdictional question, viz., whether he could constitutionally
be tried by a court presided over by a retired judge of
the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals. This question, therefore, would have warranted review by the
Court of Appeals.
Solution of this problem will call into consideration a
number of subsidiary questions. What are the characteristics of an Article III court? Is the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals an Article III court? If so,
when did it become such a court? Assuming arguendo
that the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals has been
an Article III court only since 1958 (when Congress
enacted legislation conferring that status), what is the
bearing of this fact-on the.status of a judge Who retired
from the court prior to that time?
These are not questions on which, with all due respect,
a lower court can be of effective assistance to this Court.
They do not involve the evaluation of evidence or the
application of rules of local law or special familiarity and
experience with the materials and the underlying considerations on which judgment must be based. On the con-trary, the constitutional history and the cases upon which
the decision ultimately must turn are the special concern
of this- Court. Indeed, the questions posed would be
entirely suitable for certification to this Court by a lower

714

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

366 U. S.

appellate court. See 28 U. S. C. ยง 1254. Cf. United
States v. Mayer, 235'U. S. 55. Furthermore, the administration of justice in the federal courts demands a speedy
disposition of this dispute. Until it is settled, assignment of retired judges to help clear dockets in federal
courts under a litigious cloud will be hampered by
uncertainty.
Nothing could be more obvious than that the Court
of Appeals, no matter how it may decide the question
now put in its keeping, will have it only temporarily.
The inevitable final -destination of the case is this Court.
Decision here should not be delayed by wastefully timeconsuming remand to the Court of Appeals of a question
that is already before us.

