LOUISIANA v. N. A. A. C. P.

293

Syllabus.

LOUISIANA
GENERAL,
FOR

THE

PEOPLE

EX REL.
ET AL.

GREMILLION, ATTORNEY
v. NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

ADVANCEMENT

OF

COLORED

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 294.

Argued April 26, 1961.-Decided May 22, 1961.

The State of Louisiana sued in a state court to enjoin the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People from doing
business in the State because of its failure to comply with a state
law requiring certain types of organizations to file annually with
the Secretary of State lists of their officers and members. That
suit was removed to a Federal District Court and appellees sued
there for a judgment declaring unconstitutional that statute and
another requiring each nontrading association to file annually an
affidavit that none of the officers of any out-of-state association
with which it is affiliated is a member of any Communist, Communist-front or subversive organization. The cases were consolidated,
and, after a hearing on affidavits and oral argument, the District
Court entered a temporary injunction that denied relief to the
State and its officers and enjoined them from enforcing the two
statutes in question. Held: The judgment is affirmed. Pp. 294-297.
(a) It is not consonant with due process to require a person
to swear to a fact that he cannot be expected to know or alternatively to refrain from a wholly lawful activity. Pp. 294-295.
(b) The case is in a preliminary stage, and it is not now known
what facts will be disclosed in further hearings before the injunction becomes final; but, if it be shown that disclosure of the Association's membership lists results in reprisals and hostility to
members, such disclosure may not be required consistently with
the First Amendment, made applicable to the States by the Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. N. A. A. C: P. v.
Alabama. 357 U. S. 449; Bates v. Little Rock, 361 U. S. 516.
Pp. 295-297.
181 F. Supp. 37, 'affirmed.

William P. Schuler, Assistant Attorney General of
Louisiana. and M. E. Culligan argued the cause for appellants. With Mr. Schuler on the briefs were Jack P. F.

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
Opinion of the Court.

366 U. S.

Gremillion, Attorney General, CarrollBuck, First Assistant Attorney General, and George Ponder, former First
Assistant Attorney General.
Robert L. Carterargued the cause for appellees.
him on the brief was A. P. Tureaud.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

With

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
One of the suits that is consolidated in this appeal was
instituted in 1956 by the then Attorney General of
Louisiana against appellee, the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People, in a Louisiana
court and sought to enjoin it from doing business in
the State. It was removed to the federal court.1 Thereafter NAACP sued appellants in the federal court asking for a declaratory judgment that two laws of Louisiana were unconstitutional. A three-judge court was
convened (28 U. S. C. § 2281) and the cases were consolidated. After a hearing (on affidavits) and oral argument,
the court entered a temporary injunction that denied
relief to appellants and enjoined them from enforcing
the two laws in question. 181 F. Supp. 37. The case is
here on appeal. 28 U. S. C. § 1253. We noted probable
jurisdiction. 364 U. S. 869.
One of the two statutes of Louisiana in question prohibits any "non-trading" association from doing business
in Louisiana if it is affiliated with any "foreign or out
of state non-trading" association "any of the officers or
members of the board of directors of which are members
of Communist, Communist-front or subversive organizations, as cited by the House of Congress [sic] un-American Activities Committee, or the United States Attorney." 2 Every nontrading association affiliated with an
also State v. N. A. A. C. P., 90 So. 2d 884.
La. Rev. Stat., 1950, § 14:385 (1958 Supp.).

1 See
2

LOUISIANA v. N. A. A. C. P.
293

Opinion of the Court.

out-of-state association must file annually with Louisiana's Secretary of State an affidavit that "none of the
officers" of the affiliate is "a member" of any such organization.' Penalties against the officers and members are
provided for failure to file the affidavit and for false filings.
The NAACP is a New York corporation with some
forty-eight directors, twenty vice-presidents, and ten
chief executive officers. Only a few reside or work in
Louisiana. The District Court commented that the
statute "would require the impossible" of the Louisiana
residents or workers. 181 F. Supp., at 40.. We have received no serious reply to that criticism. Such a requirement in a law compounds the vices present in statutes
struck down on account of vagueness. Cf. Winters v.
New York, 333 U. S. 507. It is not consonant with due
process to require a person to swear to a fact that he
cannot be expected to know (cf. Tot v. United States,
319 U. S. 463) or alternatively to refrain from a wholly
lawful activity.
The other statute I requires the principal officer of
"each fraternal, patriotic, charitable, benevolent, literary,
scientific, athletic, military, or social organization, or
organization created for similar purposes" and operating
in Louisiana to file with the Sedretary of State annually
"a full, complete and true list of the names and addresses
of all of themembers and officers" in the State. Members
of organizations whose lists have not been filed are prohibited from holding or attending any meeting of the
organization. Criminal penalties are attached both to
officers and to members.
We are told that this law was passed in 1924 to curb the
Ku Klux Klan, but that it was never enforced against
any other organization until this litigation started; that
when the State brought its suit some affiliates of NAACP
3 La. Rev. Stat., 1950, § 14:386 (1958 Supp.).
4

La. Rev. Stat., 1950, §§ 12:401-409.-

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
Opinion of the Court.

366 U. S.

in Louisiana filed membership lists; and that after those
filings, members were subjected to economic reprisals.
181 F. Supp., at 39. The State denies that this law is
presently being enforced only against NAACP; it also
challenges the assertions that disclosure of membership
in the NAACP results in reprisals. While hearings were
held before the temporary injunction issued, the case is in
a preliminary stage and we do not know what facts further hearings before the injunction becomes final may
disclose. It is clear from our decisions that NAACP
has standing to assert the constitutional rights of its
members. N. A. A. C. P. v. Alabama, 357 U. S. 449,
459. We deal with a constitutional right, since freedom of
association is included in the bundle of First Amendment
rights niade applicable to the States by the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Id., p. 460;
Bates v. Little Rock, 361 U. S. 516, 523. And where it
is shown, as it was in N. A. A. C. P. v. Alabama, supra,
462-463, that disclosure of membership lists results in
reprisals against and hostility to the members, disclosure
is not required. And see Bates v. Little Rock, supra,
523-524.
We are in an area where, as Shelton v. Tucker, 364
U. S. 479, emphasized, any regulation must be highly
selective in order to survive challenge under the First
Amendment. As we there stated: ". . . even though
the governmental purpose be legitimate and substantial,
that purpose cannot be pursued by means that broadly
stifle fundamental personal liberties when the end can
be more narrowly achieved." Id., 488.
The-most frequent expressionsof that view have been
made in cases dealing with local ordinances regulating the
distribution of literature Broad comprehensive regulations of those First Amndment rights have been repeatedly struck down (Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444;
Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147; Cantwell v. Connecti-

LOUISIANA v. N A. A. C. P.
293

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring in the judgment.

cut, 310 U. S. 296), though the power to regulate the
time, manner, and place of distribution was never
doubted. As stated in Schneider v. State, supra, 160161, the municipal authorities have the right to "regulate
the conduct of those using the streets," to provide traffic
regulations, to prevent "throwing literature broadcast in
the streets," and the like. Yet, while public safety,
peace, comfort, or convenience can be safeguarded by
regulating the time and manner of solicitation (Cantwell
v. Connecticut, supra, 306-307), those regulations need
to be "narrowly drawn to prevent the supposed evil."
Id., 307. And see Talley v. California,362 U. S. 60, 64.
Our latest application of this principle was in Shelton
v. Tucker, supra, where we held that, while a State has
the undoubted right to inquire into the fitness and competency of its teachers, a detailed disclosure of every
conceivable kind of associational tie a teacher has had
probed into relationships that "could have no possible
bearing upon the teacher's occupational competence or
fitness." Id., 488.
At one extreme is criminal conduct which cannot have
shelter in the First Amendment. At the ,ther extreme
are regulatory measures which, no matter how sophisticated, cannot be employed in purpose or in effect to stifle,
penalize, or curb the exercise of First Amendment rights.
These lines mark the area in which the present controversy lies, as the District Court rightly observed.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

and MR. JUSTICE STEWART concur

in the result.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, whom MR. JUSTICE CLARK

joins, concurring in the judgment.
One of the important considerations that led to the
enactment of the Norris-LaGuardia Act, 47 Stat. 70,

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
FRANKFURTER, J.,

concurring in the judgment. 366 U. S.

limiting the jurisdiction of the District Courts to grant
injunctions in labor controversies, was that such injunctions were granted, usually by way of temporary relief,
on the basis of affidavits. I am of the view that the issues
that arise in controversies like the present one are likewise more securely adjudicated upon a foundation of oral
testimony rather than affidavits. At all events, I am
dubious about a fixed rule, such as that which is apparently in effect in the District Court for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, barring oral testimony-subject to
the usual safeguards of cross-examination-in proceedings
for a temporary injunction. I assume that oral testimony
will be available in a proceeding to make the temporary
injunction permanent.
In this understanding I concur in the judgment of the
Court.

