JANUARY TERM, 1843.

JoHN LLOYD, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. GEORGE S. HOUGH.
The action of assumpsit for the use and occupation of lands and houses, existed in Virginia anterior to the cessi6n of the District of Columbia to the
United States.

But this action is founded upon contract, either express or implied, and will
nnt lie where the possession has been acquired and maintained under a different or adverse'title, or where it-was tortious-and. makes- the holder a trespasser.

THis casc was brought up, by 'writ-of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the- District of' Columbia, holden
in and for the county of Alexandria..
The facts-in the case, and bills of exceptions, are stated in the
opinion of the court4 to whichthe reader is referred.'
Semmes, for the plaintiff in error.
Neale, for the'defendant.
,Semmes, for the plaittiflf raised th following points.
First bill of- exceptions.-There was error in the opinion and
instructions of the court.
1.Because' ttie instruction was not given upon the whole of
the .evidence of the witness, Isaac Robbins, but upon only part,
which he gave upon cross-examinationby the defendant in error.
2. Because the court allowed parol evidence of title to real
estate to go to the 'jury.
3. Because in the opinion and instruction they gave on this
portion of the evidence, the court directed the jury,.if,
they believed the testimony therein stated, they. "must" find for the lefendant.
Second bill of exception.-The court ought to have instructed
the jury, that if they believed the evidence therein stated to be
frue, the plaintiff, being the fee- simple owner of the tenement,
could recover on the implied contract as stated in the second.
count of the declaration, without any proof of an iotual entry,
into the premises on the part of the plaintiff, or acknowledgment
on the part of the"defendant that he considered the plaintiff his
landlord, or without: any proof that the defendant had actual
.notice of the legal and fee simple title of the plaintiff to the
premises. VOL. I.-2o

SUPREME COURT.
Lloyd v. Rough.

Third bill of exception.-Evidence ought to have been admitted t6 show the notoriety of Lloyd's claim and title, tending,
with other circumstances, to bring, the knowledge of it home to
fhe defendant.
Fourth bill-governed by same principles as second.
On the right of the jury to weigh evidence, he cited Greenleaf, p. 292, 445,446, 568; -1 Call, 161; 2 Mad. 478.
- That an action will lie on an implied promise, 16 East, 104;
I Levins, 179; 2 Campb. 18; 1 Campb. 466. Debt lies for use
and occupation, 6 T. R... 62; 4 Day, 228.
Neale, for the defendant, cited several authorities to show that
interest could not be recovered upon rent in .arrear; and to prove
that this action would not lie where -there was no privity of contract, cited 1 Esp. 57, 59, 61 ; 2 Nott and McCord, 156; 3 Serg.
and Rawle, 500; 6 06nn. Rep. 1; Chitty on Contracts,. (3d Am.
ed. by Troubat,) 106; 2 Tuck. Com. book 3, c. 1,.p. 19,20;
2 Campb. 1.1, 12.; 1 Campb. 4664 Buller N. P. 139.
As to the court -directing the jdry they must find for' the defendant, 5 Peters, 197; 14 Peters; 327; 1 Cranch, 300.; 4 Cranc h,
71; 4 Leigh, 114; 1 Wash. 5, 6; 5 Rand. 145, 194.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause is brought before this court upon a writ.of error to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia. :The-questions for consideration here, arise upon the following statement. The plaintiff in error instituted in the Circuit
Court for the -Districtof Columbia, an action of. assun.psit against
the defendant for.the use and occupation-of a house in the town
of Alexandria. The declaration contains two counts;-the first
dclaring upon an express agreement between the parties for the
occupation and rent, and the second counting upon-an occupation
by the defendant by the permission-of the plaintiff, and upon a
promise in consideration thereof. The accoint filed with the declaration claims an annual rent of $175, from the 1st of January,
1826, to the 1st of January, 1839, inclusive, with interest after
the expiratioii of eadh year. Upon the abovre declaration, there
was a judgment by default, and a jury being empannelled upon
a -writof inquiry assessed damages -against the defendant to .the

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

155

Lloyd -v. Hough.

full amount of the plaintiff's demand for rent and interest. This
verdict the court on motion of"the defendant set aside; annexing
to its order the condition, that the defendant should not plead the
statute-of limitations-; and issue.being joined between the par-,
ties on the plea of non-assumpsit,a jury sworn to try that issue
on the loth of May,'1841, returned a vdrdict for the defendant;
and thereupon the court gave judgment against-the plaintiff with
costs.

At the trial instructions to the jury were prayed, on behalf
both of plaintiff and defendant, and exceptions taken to the
rulings of the court in reierence to those instruotions.
The first bill of etceptions tafes. that the defendant, havingoffered to prove by competent and credible witnesses.that during
the entire period -of his occupation of the premises, he had
remaining thereon property sufficient to answer the rent, had the
plaintiff chosen to distrain or sue for the same; he thereupon
prayed the court to instru.ct the jfiry, should they believe from
the evidence, that there had always been upon the premises,
while occupied by the defendant, property and effects of his sufficient to have satisfied the rent, then that the plaintiff, failing or
neglecting to sue or distrain for those rents, was not entitled in
this action to recover interest on the rent in arrear whatever it
might be, from a period earlier than the date of the writ sued out
in this cause. But the court refused'the instructions so prayed
for, to which refusal the defendant excepted.
In the second bill of exceptions it is stated that the defendant,
by cross-examination of Isaac Robbius, the plaintiff's' witness,
proved that in the spring of .1820, defendant entere(I the premises
as tenant, from year to 'year, under a parol demise from said
Robbins as trustee of John Swayne, an insolvent debtor, and at
the annual rent of $175, and continued to occupy the premises
under said demise, paying the rent as it became due to Robbins,
as trustee of Swayne, till the prin'g of 1824. That Robbins, in
character of trustee of Swayne, paid a portionof the rents collected of the defendant to A. C. Cazefnove, arid a part of them to
the plaintiff, but without-the knowledge. of-the defendant: that
since the spring of 1824, the defendant had paid no rent to Robbins, assigning as a reason for refusing to pay, that the collecto
of the port of Alexandria. had forbidden such paymhent: that the

SUPREME COURT..
Llo-yd v. "Hougli

defendant was still the occupant of the premises of- which the
plaintiff in this cause had never, tor his knowledge, taken actual
possession: that Robbins' resided in Alexandria and had so resided for the last thirty-seven years: that the defendant also read
in evidence a deed from Jonathan Scholfield and wife, to A. C.
Cazenove, bearing date on the 13th. of June, 1814, and duly
recorded in Alexandria county, -which deed (made a part of the.
exceptions) conveyed the premises occupied by the defendant.
That upOn these proofs the defendant prayed the court to instruct
the jury, hould they believe that .the defendant originally entered; and used and occupied the premises by a parol demise
thereof -from Robbins, as trustee of Swayne, in 1820,-and, as
tenant of Robbins, paid'-him the rent until 1824, after which
period Robbins ceased to .collect the rent for the reason above
stated, although the defendant continued to use and occupy the
premises from 1824, and still occupied them; -and that the defendant did not hold and occupy the premises either tuider a written
or parol demise from the plaintiff prior or subsequently to, his'
holding under Robbins, or prior t&the institution of this suit, but
that the defendant held and occupied the" premises exclusively
under the original parol demise from Robbins as trustee as aforesaid, and that the defendant had no notice of any title in the
plaintiff to the premises beyond what might be presumed from
the fact then shown in evidence, that a deed had been made for
the.premises from Robert I. Taylor to the plaintiff and had been
admitted to record, that then the jury must find for the defendant, Which instruction the court accordingly gave, and the plaintiff excepted.
By the third bill 'ofexcepiions it is recited in substance that the
plaintiff having offered- in evidence a deed to him for the premises,
dated March the'lOth, 1817, from Robert I. Taylor, trustee in a
deed from onathan Scholfield. and wife, conveying the same
property'to said Taylor on the 26th of June, 1814, (both which
deeds are parts of this exception,) and having farther proved by.
Isaac Robbins that from the year 1820 to the year 1324, the defqndant used and occupied the premises in .the declaration menfioued under a verbal reriting from Robbins, 6laiming a6 trustee
of S'wayne under the insolvent law, and. that said -renting by
Robbins was without the knowledge or consent of the plaintiff,

JANUARY

TERM,

1843.

.167

Lloyd v. Hough.

(no title having been shown by the-defendant in Swayne-.or in
Robbins claiming as his trustee under the insolvent law,) and
that Robbins collected th6 rent of the premises from 1820 to 1824
inclusive, claiming as lessor of the defendant, and as trustee of
Swayne ; that he had paid over a portion of the rent thus collected to A. C. Cazenove, and a portion of it to the plaintiff, who was
the owner of the fee'imple under the deed from Taylor, of March
the loth, 1817; the witness not knowing whethbr.the defendant
knew of the disposition so.made of the. rent collected of him, and
that hei Robbinsi.had not claimed rent for the premises from the
defendahtsnceApril-, 1824, having been informed that defendant
had been forbidden by the collector of.the customs of the port of
Alexandria, to pay .tent to any one, other than the United States,
and not having shown that the -defendant had, at any time, paid
rent.either to the collector or the United States.
Whereupon, the.plaintiff prayed the court to instruct. the jury,
should they believe- the evidence aforesaid, that then the plaintiff- hid made out such a case as entitled him to rdcover on the
second count,-for the'use and occupation of the premises, for such
time as the plaintiff should prove that the defendant had used and
occupied the same, after the 15th day of April, 1824, by permis- sion.0f'the plaintiff. This instruction the court also refused to-give,'
being of opinion that from the evidence so stated, it was not competent for the jury to infer'that such occupation by the defendant
.was by the peimission of the plaintiff, to which opinion and refusal the.plaintiff excepted..
Fourth bill of .exceptions.-The plaintiff, offered to prove that
the claim of the plaintiff to the pretises~for the rent of.which
this suit was instituted, was a subject of general notoriety in the
neighbourhood about the" year 1820 and since, which being objected, the counsel for-the plaintiff insisted he had a right to ask the
question objeleted to, it being introductory to another question 'designied to b1tilg home to the defendant knowledge of the fact, that.
the plaintiff, claimed, the premises used and occupied by the dtfendant during -the time he o.used and.occupied them. The,
court refused to permit the question, to which. refusal the'plaintiff excepted.
By -the fifth afid last bill of exce.ptions it appears.that the plain-tiffnmoved the following instructions: Thatif -tejury should b60

158

SUPREME COURT.
Lloyd v. Hough.

lieve from ihe evidence stated in the preceding bills of exception in this cause, that there was a deed from Jonathan Scholfield
and wife (said Scholfield .being Admitted to have been at the time
seised of a legal estate in fee of the premises) to Robert I. Taylor, which deed conveyed the fee in the premises, for the use and
occupation whereof this suit was brought, and if the jury should
further believe that Taylor by a deed, subsequent thereto, and
set out in the plaintiff's second bill of exceptions, conveyed the
said premises to the plaintiff and his heirs, then, by the legal
operation of the deed from Taylor to the plaintiff, there was such
a possession transferred to the rse thereby limited and conveyed,
as dispensed with .proof on .the part of the plaintiff, that he had
actual entry on, and possession )f; the-premises; and that the said
deed gave to thd plaintiff such a legal title thereto, and possession
thereof, as could not be divested by a leasing of said premises tc
the defendant by Isaac Robbins, a stranger, so as to deprive the
plaintiff of his remedy against the defendant, tenait of the premises, occupying and using them, though originally leased to him
by said Robbins without the plaintiff's 4onsent; which instruction
the coiiri refused to give, and the plaintiff excepted.
Although it has been deemed necessary to an accurate description and correct understanding of the points in the case, to state
the several biHl-ef exception in -the record, yet it is obvious that
the four bills sealed at the instance of the plaintiff, and making
the second, third, fourth, and fifth in the ordei of the proceedings,
may be embraced within the same view, as they all relate to the
establishment of one and the same conclusion, viz., the necessity
of establishing an agreement either express or implied by law,
for the payment of rent by the defendant to the plaintiff.
. In the argument of this cause, the counsel for the plaintiff has
supposed himself called on to anticipate an objection to the remedy
by action o assumysit, for use and occupation of lands and
'houses, as not having existed in Virginia anterior to the cession
of the District of Columibia to the federal government. Such an
objection is regarded without just foundation, this remedy having
been declared by the Supreme Court of Virginia to be always a
part of the jurisprudence of that. state, and having been likewise
recognised in her legislation, not as a remedy creatbd by. statute,

but ap one enlarged and favouied, by making it a transitory in-

JANUARY TERM,- 1843.

159

Lloyd v. Hough.

stead of a local action. Vid. Sutton v. Mandeville, I Munf. 407;.
Epp9s v. Cole, 4 Hen. and Munf. 161; Sessions Acts, February,
1816, c. 15, s. 6; *Tate's Dig. 465, s. 28.
But whenever the action of- assumpsit for use and occupation
has-been allowed, it has been founded and would seem necessarily
to be founded upon contract either express or.implied. The very
-term assrumpsitpresupposes a contract. Whatever, then, excludes
all ideaof a contract, excludes, at the same time, a remedy whicl
can spring from contract only, which affirms it, and seeks its enforcement. To maintain the action for use and occupation, therefore, there must be established the relation of landlord and tenant,
* r holding by the defendant under a knowledge. of the plaintiff's
title or claim and under circumstances which amount -to an ac-:
knowledgment of, or acquiescence in, such title or claim, and an
agreemient or permission on the part of the plaintiff. The action
will not -lie where the possession has been acquired and maintained under a different or adverse title, or where it was tortious
and makes the holder a trespasser.
In Birch v. Wright, 1 T. R. 387, Buller, Justice, declares I"that
the action for use -and occupation is founded in contract, and unless thts be a-contract express or implied, the action could not be
maintained, as was held by Lord Mangeld in the case cited- at
the bar, of Carmur v. Mercer, which whs tried about two years
ago." The same principle is ruled in Smith v. Stewart,-6 Johns..
46:.. In the ca~e .of Henwood v. Cheeseman, 3' Serg. and Rawl,,
500, it is-said by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, -If'
the defendant occupied. land by consent and permission of the
plaintiff, the jury may presume a promise to pay a reasonable
rent i" again, "the action for use and occupation, is fiunded on
privity .of contract, not on privity o estat..' In 2 Nott 'and
McCord's Reports,. 156, in the case'of Ryan v. Marsh, the law is
thus laid down: "It was argued that a contract might be im:"
plied, and certainly as long as the character of the act done by th"
defendant was -doubtful, a contract might' be implied; Ut when
it is admitted that the possession was tortious,. every clharacteristic of contract was excluded. No action for- use and occupation
will lie, when possessi6n has been adverse and tortious, for, such"
excludes the idea of a contract, which, in all cases of this actior, .
must be express or implied."

-

160

SUPREME COURT.
Lloyd v. Hough.

Authorities upon this point might doubtless be multiplied., We
will add two others to'those already cited, viz. the cases of Stockett V. Watkins's administrators, 2 Harr. and Johns. 326; the
opinion of the court on pp. 338, 339; and of Stoddert v. Newman, 7 Harr. and Johns. 251. The principles ruled in the authorities 'above referred to, appear to be strictly applicable to the case
under consideration, and decisive of its fate. Upon an examination of the testimony, introduced by the plaintiffs, as set forth in
.his four bills of exception, -it cannot fail to.be perceived, that itImports throughout no proof of a contract between the plaintiff
and defendant, of a holding by the latter under the former, of any
acquiescence in, or knowledge of title, in the plaintiff or of permission by him for the occupation of the defendant. So far from
establishing these requisites for sustaining the plaintiff's dbmand,
it excludes each and all of them. This evidence. proves beyond
dispute, a possession and holding by the defendant under an
agieement with Robbins, as trustee of Swayne, an insolvent
debtor, payment of rent to this trustee in pursuance of such
agreement, until a claim was interposed on behalf of the United
States, as creditors of the insolvent debtor; it further proves a
failure or forbearance by the plaintiff to assert any interest or
right to the subject, anterior to the year. 1839, about the time of
the institution of the plaintiff's action, and sq far ad a negative is
capable of proof, a total ignorance on the part of,the defendAnt
.of any right of the plaintiff, either to the rents or to the subject
from which they were to is§ue. * Upon the above view of the evidence 'as disclosed in the second, third, fourth, and fifth bills of
exceptions, we hold the opinion of the'Circuit Court to be correct; it is therefore affirmed.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript, of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria, and was
argued by counsel.. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said
Supreme Court in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed,
with costs.

