JANUARY TERM, 1843.

95

City of-Mobile v. Emanuel et al.

That all possible diligence should have been used by the
Louisville, he cited Story on Bailments, 334 3 Pardessus, 79,
1 652; 1 Wash. C. C. R. 142; Stope et al. v. Retland, 4 Martin's La. Rep. (new series,) 399; Martin et al. v. Blythe,'
1 McCord, 360.
The court being equally divided, the judgment of the Circuit
Court was affirmed.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of ihe record
from the Circuit Court of the United States f6r the eastern district
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On'consideration
whereof, it is. now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, tiat the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be
and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

MAYOR AND ALDERMEN OF *THE CITY OF MOBIAE, PLAINTIFFS, V.
J. EXANUEL AND G.*S. GAINES, DEFENDANTS.
The case of the City of Mobile v. Hallett, 16 Peters, 261, examined and confirmed.
Under the exception contained in the act of Congress of 1824, no title passed
to the city of Mobile, where the land was in the possession of a party claiming to hold it under a Spanish grant which had been confirmed by the United
States.

Txis case was brought up by writ of error, from the Sapreme
Court of the state of Alabama, under the twenty-fifth section of
the judiciary act of 1789.
The facts in the case were these:
On the 26th of September, 1807, the. Spanish governor of
Florida granted to John Forbes a tract of land immediately
adjacent to what is now the city of Mobile, and indeed constituting a part of it. The grant was founded upon, and confirmatory
of, an older one issued to Richardson in 1767, by the British
government, thei in.possession of the country. The land was
upon the west side of the river Mobile. In the document issued

96

SUPREME

CO'URT.

City of Mobile v. Emanuel et al.
by the surveyor-general, it is said to be "bounded on the east by
said river;" and in that issued by the intendant, to be "terminated
by the bank of said river on the east side :" in both, there' is a
reservation of a "free passage on the bank of the river."
On the 2d of March, 1819, Congress passed "An act to enable
the people of the Alabama territory to form a constitution and
state government, and for the admission of such state into the
tUnion, on an equal footing with the original states," by the sixth
section of which it was enacted, "That the following propositions
be and the same are hereby offered to the convention of the
said territory of Alabama, when formed, for their free acceptance
or rejection, which, if accepted by the convention, shall be obliAfter enumerating many
gatory upon the United States."
articles, the section concludes with this: "and that all navigable
waters within the said state shall forever remain public highways,
free to the citizens of said state and of the United States, without
any tax, duty, impost, or toll, therefor, imposed by the said state."
By-the original plan of the town a street was. laid off, called
Water street, on the margin of the river, running nearly north
rnd south, which was afterwards filled up, and by the improvement the water, at high tide, was confined to the eastern edge of
the street.
On the'.26th of May, 1824, Congress passed "An act granting
certain lots of ground to the corporation of the city of Mobile,
and to certain individuals of said city," which is as follows:
1. "That all the right and claim of the United States to the
lots known as the hospital and bakehouse lots, containing about
three-fourths of an acre of land, in the city of Mobile, in the
state of Alabama, and also all the right and claim of the United
States to all the lots not sold or confirmed to individuals, either
by this or any former act, and to which no equitable title exists
in favour of any individual, under this or any former act, between high water-mark, and the channel of the river, and be
tween Church street and North Boundary street, in front of the
said city, be and the same are hereby vested in the mayor afid
aldermen of the said city of Mobile, for the time being, and their
successors in. office, for the sole use and benefit of the said city
forever.
2. "That all the right and claim of the United States to so

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

97-

City of Mobile v. Emanuel et al.

many of the lots of ground east of Water street, and between
Church street and North Boundary street, now known as waterlbts, as are situated between the channel of the river and- the
front of the lots known under the Spanish government as witerlots, in the said city of Mobile, whereon improvements have
been made, be and the same are hereby vested in the several
proprietors *andoccupants of each of the lots heretofore fronting
on the 'river Mobile, except in case's where such proprietor or
occupant has alienated his right to any such lot now designated
as a water-lot, or the Spanish government has made a new grant
or Qrder of survey for the same during the time at which they
had the power to grant the same; in which case the rights and
claims of the United States shall be and is hereby vested in the
person to whom such alienation, grant, or. order of survey was
made, or in his legal representative.
"Provided, that nothing in this act contained shall be construed
to affect the claim or claims, if any such there be, of any individual or individuals, or of any body politic or corporate."
7 vol Laws of the United States, 318; 1 vol. Land Laws,
ed. 1838, 398.
On the 8th of July, 1835, the mayor and aldermen of the city
of Mobile brought an action of trespass to try title against
Emantel and Gaines in the state Circuit Court of Alabama,
claiming several lots bounded on the west by Water street, and
running eastward to the channel of the river.
On the trial of the cause, the jury, under the instructions of the
court, foift,the defendants "not guilty" of the trespass. The
court chargea the jury "that if the place in controversy was,
subsequent to the admission of this state into the Union, below
both high and low water-mark, then Congress had -no right 'to
grant it; and if defendants were in possession, the plaintiffs could
not oust them, by virtue of the act of Congress.
"That the grant to Forbes extended to high water-mark, and
that if the place claimed was between high water-marl and the
channel, in front of the grant, and had been reclaimed by the
defendants; then the plaintiffs cdtild not recover in virtue of the
act of Congress, and this, notwithstanding the reservation of the
*right of way specified in the confirmation of the grant to
Forbes."
.VOL. .-13
I

98

SUPREME COURT.
City of Mobile v. Emanuel et aL

Upon this charge a bill of exceptions, was founded, and the
case carried to the Supreme Court of the state of Alabama,
where the judgment of the court below was affirmed.
It is-necessary to refer to the opinion of the Supreme Court
of the state of Alabama, in order to understand the ground
upon which the dissentient opinion of Mr. Justice Catron is
placed.
The Supreme Court of Alabama did not decide the first point
raised in the bill of exceptions, viz., "that Congress had no right
to grafit the land to the city of Mobile." But being- of opinion
that the grant to Forbes conveyed to him the intervening space
between high water-mark and the channel of the river, (covering
the property in dispute,) and thus precluded the plaintiffs from
ever recovering it; and being moreover of opinion, that a judgment ought not to be reversed for a misdirection of the judge to
the jury, if it appears that the party complaining could iot have
been injured, that court waived all examination into the correctness of the first point, and contented itself with affirming the
judgment of the court below.
Test, for the plaintiffs in error.
Sergeants, for the defendants.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause is brought to this court by a writ of error, to the
Supreme Court of Alabama.
An action of trespass to try the title to a certain lot or piece of
ground in the city of Mobile, was commenced by the plaintiffs
against the defendants, in the Circuit Courr of the state. Issue
being joined, a jury'were empannelled, who rendered a verdict
of not guilty. As the right of the plaintiffs was asserted, exclusively, under an act of Congress, and the decision being against
that right, the plaintiffs, having excepted to certain rulings of the
court on the trial, prosecuted this writ of error, under the twentyfifth section of the judiciary act of 1789.
The bill of exceptions states that it.was proved the defendants
were in possession of the premises 'described in the declaration,
at the time the suit was brought.
. An-act of Congress, entitled "An act, granting certain lots of
ground to the corporation of the city of -Mobile, and to certain

JANUARY TERM, I13.

99

City of Mobile v. Emanuel et al.

individuals of said city," passed 20th May, 1824, was read: also
"A resolution of the mayor and aldermen of the city of Mobile,
passed the 23d day of April, 1834, in the following words : ' Resolved, that the map of the city as now shown to the board, be
accepted and approved; and it is further resolved that the names
of the streets be the same as heretofore established.'"
It was also proved by the plaintiffs .that the map referred to
was one published by Goodwin and Haise, a copperplafe copy
of which was offered in evidence; a copy of such parts of said
map as is necessary to refer to is annexed.
It was also proved that there never had been a street in Mobile,
known as North Boundary street. And also, that the premises
in question were situate, in May, 1824, between Church street,
south of Adams street, and below high water as well as low
water-mark and the channel of the river. It was also proved
that the premises were north of St. Louis street, as laid out in
said map, and that in 1824, Water street did not extend to St.
Louis street, and that at that time buildings were few and scattered above St. Louis street.
The defendant offered in evidence a grant from the Spanish
government, and proved that they claimed title to the premises
under that grant.
The court charged the jury that, if the place in- controversy
was, subsequent to the admission of this state into the Union,
below both high and low water-mark, then. Congress had no
right to grant it; and if defendantswere in possession, the plaintiffs could not oust them, by virtue of the act of Congress. That
the grant to Forbes extended to high water-mark, and that if the
place claimed was between high water-mark and the channel, in
front of the grant, and had been reclaimed by the. defendants,
then the plaintiffs could not recover in virtu of the act of Congress, and this, notwithstanding the reservation of the right of
way specified in the confirmation of the grant to Forbes."
It appeared that on the 9th January, 1767, the English government, being then in possession of the country, had granted the
Ihnd in controversy to William Richardson-; aid that a grant of
the same land was made to John Forbes and Co., the assignees
of Richardson, by the Spanish authority, the- 26th September,
1807. In the British grant the land "1xas bounded east by the

100

SUPREME COURT.
City of Mobile v. Emanuel et al.

river Mobile," and by the Spanish "by the bank of the river,"
"leaving a free passage on the bank," &c.
The case was removed by writ of error from the Circuit Court
to the -Supreme Court of the state, in which judgment was
affirmed.
The first section of the act of 1824, referred -to in the bill of.
eyeeptions, vests ".in the mayor and aldermen of the city of Mobile, for the time being, and their successors in office, for the sol'e
use and benefit of the city, iforever, all the right and claim of-the
United States to ail the lots not sold or confirmed to individuals,
either by that or any former act, and to which no equitable title
exisis in favour of an individual under that or any other act, between high water-mark and the channel of the river, and between
Church street and North Boundary street, in front of the city. '"
And the second section of the act "excepts from the operation
-of. the law, cases where the Spanish government had made a
new grant -or order of survey for the same, during the time at
which they had the power to grant the same; in which case, the
right and claim of the United States shall be and is hereby
vested in the person to whom such alienation, grant, or order of
survey, was made, or in his legal representative."
In principle this case is similar to that of the City of Mobile v.
Hallett, 16 Peteis, 261. In that cause the court say, "From the
bill of exceptions, it appears, that the defendant was in- possession of the land in controversy under a Spanish grant, which was
confirmed by the United States; and that the land extended to
the Mobile river. It was then within the exception in the act
of 1824, and no right vested in the plaintiffs. We think, therefore, that the instruction of the Circuit Court to this effect, was
right." The same language is equally applicable to the cas&
uider consideration. And it appears that the judgment of the
Circuit Court was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Alabama,
on the ground that " there was no vacant space between high and
low water-mark; all having been sold and confirmed to Forbes,"
under his Spanish: grant.
The Spanish grant being an exception in the act, under which
the plaintiffs claim, the instructiofi of the Circuit Court in favour
of the defendant was correct. The judgment f the Supreme
Court of Alabama is affirmed.

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

10f

City of Mobile'v. Emanuel et al.

Mr. Justice CATRON.dissented.
The premises in controversy lie in front of the city of Mobile,
and are claimed by the corporation, by virtue of the act of Congress, of May 20, 1824.' They. lie both below higlh and low
water-mark.
The court charged the jury that, if the place in controversy
was subsequent to the admission of this state into the Union,
below both high and low water-mark, then Congress had no
right to grant it, and. if defendants were in possession, the plain-tiffs could not oust them, by virtue of the act of Congress.
That the grant to Forbes extended to high water-mark, and
that if the place claimed was between high water-mark, and the
channel, in front of the grant, and had been reclaimed by defend-.
ants; then the' plaintiffs could not rdeover in .virtue of the act
of Congress, and this, notwithstanding the reservation of'the
rights of way specified in the confirmation of the grant to Forbes.
To all of which charge the counsel of the plaintiffs excepted.
The jury found a general verdict of not guilty. As Alabama
was admitted into the Union, December 14, 1819, the first instruction. was conclusive of the plaintiffs' title. On the admitted fact,
that tle land lay under the water in 1824, the court pronounced
the act of Congress void.
The second instruction depends on the fact, "whether the defendant had reclaimed the land in front of the grant of Forbes."
There is no evidence in the record that he had-done so; and all
the evidence purports to have been set ouLt.
A writ of error was prosecuted to the Supreme Court of Alabama. That court simply affirmed the judgment of the Circuit
Court: and from that affirmance a writ of error was prosecuted
to thib 2ourt,.by the corporation of the city-of Mobile, under the
twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act. One error assigned in the Supreme Court of Alabama, was,
"That the charge' of the circuit judge denies, that the United
States had right and power to grant the premises in question." '
On the general affirmance, can this court take jurisdiction and
reverse, because the first intrtiction was erroneous. In the case
of the same plaintiffs against Eslaval 16 Peters, 246, the majority of the court held, that the opinion of the Supreme Court of
Alabama certified as part of the record, was "no part of it.

102

SUPREME COURT.
City of Mobile v. Emanu'el et al.

Speaking of the opinion, the court says: "Their opinion constitutes no part of the record, and is not properly a part of the case.
We must look to the points raised by the exceptions in the Circuit Court, as the only questions for our consideration and decision."
And .so this court held, in even a stronger case, (Gordon v.
Longest, 16 Peters, 103,) where there had been a general affirmance of the judgment below, by the Supreme Court of Kentucky.
In Eslava's case, I thought the opinion of the Supreme Court
of Alabama formed part of the record: in that case, as in this,
the opinion was found in the paper book; but a majority of the
court ruled it out, as no part of the record; to which decision I
-submit, of course.
Looking only to the points raised by the exceptions in the
Circuit Court, and we find it established with a plainness ,admitting of no doubt, that Alabama claims to hold :as her own:
and does actually hold, by force of her judicial decisions, all the
lands within the state, flowed by tide water: and that this claim
is founded, on an implied cession of the lands under fide water,
*by the United States to Alabama, as a consequence of the sanction given by Congress to the state constitution. The disastrous
results-of this assumption on part of the state courts of Alabama,
I endeavoured to point out,.(so far as pressure of Circumstances
would permit,) in my opinions in the cases of these plaintiffs
against Eslava and Hallet, 16 Peters, 247 and 263.
That the United States had the undoubted title before the
adoption of the constitution of Alabama, has never been denied
by any one; and that the state acquired title by that event has
not been proved, nor can it be, as I think: nor is it perceived
how the qubstion can be avoided in the cause before us, unless
we look beyond the record. I therefore believe the judgment
should be reversed because there was error in the first instruction.
For my reasons I refer to the opinions in the cases of Eslava and
Hallet. To these I -- ill add, that it is: impossible for this court
to follow the decisions of the Supreme Court of Alabama,
without overruling the decision in Pollard's heirs v. Kibbie,
14 Peters, 353. William Pollard claimed a square" of land below
high water-mark fronting the city of Mobile: the claim was
founded originally on a Spanish concession, made in 1809. This

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

103

City of Mobile .v. Emanuel et aL

was merely void, as was held in Foster and Elam v. Neilson,
2 Peters, 254, and in Garcia v. Lee, 12 Peters, 511. By the 2d
sec, of the act of 1824, the land was excepted from its operation
and did not pass to the city of Mobile. 14 Peters, 364, 365, 366.
The title to the square claimed by Pollard therefore remained in
th. United States until it was granted to his heirs, by a private
act of Congress, of 1836, and a patent founded on.the act, dated
in 1837. ,This court maintained the title, and a recovery was
had on the act of 1836, and the patent from the government.
If the act of 1824 is-void, because Congress had no power to
grant the lands below the flow of the tides; so is equally, and as
certainly, the act of 1836, and the patent founded on it.
Forbbs owned the land, in front of the land granted to Pollard's
heirs: Forbes's grant extended to high water-mark; was dated
in 1802 ; and was undisputed. This court held in effect that it
was bounded, and could not extend by implication beyond the
high W-ater-mark. So is the undoubted construction of grant's for
lands fronting tide waters. A grant of lands on each side of an
arm of the sea, and embracing it, does not pass the land under.
the water by general words; there must be special words of grant,
showing plainly the land covered with water, was intended to be
granted: without such explicit words of grant, the high lands only
pass. Such is the settled doctrine of this court. Martin v. Waddel, 16 Peters, 367. Forbes therefore could not claim as riparian
owner, the land granted on his front, to Pollard: to hold otherwise would overrule the decision of Martin v. Waddel.
-In any aspect this controversy can be presented, it falls within
the decision of Pollard v. Kibbie: that case inust be overruled,
if the doctrine of the courts of Alabama is maintained.
ORDER.

-This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Supreme Court of the state of Alabama, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said
Supreme Court in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed,
with costs.

