JANUARY TERM, 1843.
McKenna v. Fisk.

lumbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was
argued by c6unsel. On consideration whereof, it is Pow here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs; and that this cause be and the same is hereby
remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to award a
venire facias de novo.

BERNARD

McKENNA, PLAINTIFF IN

ERROR, V.

CHARLES B.

FIsK,

DEFENDANT.

After pleading the general issue, it is too late to take advantage of a defect in
the writ, or a variance between the writ and declaration.
Actions of trespass, except those for injury to real property, are transitory in
their character.
Where the writ mentions a trespass with force and arms upon the storehouse
of the plaintiff and a seizure and destruction of goods, it covers a transitory
as well as a local action.
In transitory actions, a venue is laid to show where the trial is to take place.
It is a legal fiction, devised' for the furtherance of justice, and cannot be
traversed.
In such actions, such a venue is good without stating where the trespass was
in fact committed, with a scilicet of the county in which the action is brought.
Tn the absence of statutory provisions, the courts in the Districtf of Columbia
must apply the principles of the common law to such actions, the pleadings,
and" he proofs.

Ti rs case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the .United States for the District of Columbia andcounty of Washington.
I the trial of the cause in the court below, the whole of the
evi ence offered by the plaintiff was shut out by a decision of
the court, and the question was solely upon the correctness of
this opinion.
The w-it was as follows:
The United States of America, to the Marshal of the District of
-Columbia, greeting:
We command you, that you talce Charles B. Fisk, late of Washington county, if he shall be found within the county of WashVOL. 1.-31
X

242

SUPREME COURT.
McKenna v. Fisk.

ington, in your said district, and him safely keep, so that you have
his body before the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, to
be held for the county aforesaid, at the city of Washington, on
the fourth Monday of'November next, to answer unto Bernard
McKenna, in a plea, wherefore, with force and arms, &c., at the
county of Allegany; in the state of Maryland, to wit, at the
county of Washington, he broke into the storehouse of the said
Bernard, and seized, took, detained, and destroyed the goods and
chattels, and articles of household of the said Bernard, then and
there found, and being of a large value, and other wrongs to the
said Bernard then and there did, against the peace, dignity, and
government of the United States, &c. Hereof fail not at your
peril, and have you then and there this writ.
Witness, Win. Cranch, Esq., Chief Judge of our said court at
the city of Washington, the 1st day of May, Anno Domini, one
thousand eight hundred and forty.
Issued the 27th day of May, 1840.
WM. BRENT, Clk.
The declaration was as follows:
Nar.
Washington County, Districtof Columbia, to wit:
Charles B. Fisk, late of the county of Washington aforesaid,
yeoman, was attached to answer unto Bernard McKenua, in a
plea wherefore, with forde bLnd arms, &c., at the county of Washington aforesaid, he broke into the storeho.use of the said Bernard,
and seized, took, detained, and destroyed the goods, chattels,-and
articles of household of the said Bernard, then and there found,
and being of a large value, and other wrongs to the said Bernard
.then and there did, against the peace, dignity, and government
of the United States, and to the great damage of the said
Bernard.
And thereupon, the said Bernard, by Brent and Brent, his at.
torneys, complains, that the said Charles, heretofore, to wit, ori the.
day of September, in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred
and thirty-nine, at the county of Washington, in the District of
Columbia, with force and arms, &c., seized, took, detained, and
destroyed the goods and chattels, to wit, one thousand gallons
of spirituous liquors of different kinds; a large quantity of coffee
and of tea; various clothing -ready made for sale; two hundred
bushels of Indian corn; all the promissory notes and accounts of

JANUARY

TERM, 1843.

243

McKenna v. Fisk.

sundry persons due to the said Bernard, to the amount of at least
$400; all the furniture, bedding, and other articles in said storehouse; and also the shantee, -or storehouse, in which said goods
and chattels then and there were found; the said shantee or storehouse being a temporary building erected by said Bernard, and
to be removed by him, and not beingpart of, or attached to, the
freehold or real; all of said goods and chattels, bills, bonds, and
accounts belonging to the said Bernard, then and there foun*d;
,and being of a large value, to wit, of the value of $2000, and
carried away and destroyed the same, and converted the same to
his own use, and other wrongs to the said Bernard then and there
did, igainst the peace, government, and dignity of the Utiited
States, &c. And also, for that the said Charles, to wit, on or
about the - day of September, 1839, 'with force and arms, &c.,
at the county of Washington, in the District of Columbia, broke
and. entered a certain other shantee or temporary storehouse
of the said Bernard, situate and being in said county of Washington, and then. and there made a great noise and disturbance
therein, for a long space of time, and then and there forced and
broke open, broke to pieces, damaged, and destroyed divers, to
wit, bottles, barrels, hogsheads, jugs, and demijohns, containing
one thousand gallons of spirituous liquor of different kinds, of, and
belonging to, the said Bernard, and broke to pieces, destroyed,
damaged, and spoiled divers, to wit, one thousand pounds of coffee; two hundred pounds of tea; one hundred suits of readyz.
made clothing; two hundred bushels of Indian corn; sundrr
promissory notes, bonds, bills, and accounts due to said Bernard
from sundry persons; and also, sundry planks, timbers, shingles,
and oiher materials in the construction of a certain shantee, also
belonging to the-said Bernard, then and there found, and of great
value, to wit, of the Value of $2000, and other wrongs to the said
Bernard then and there did, against the peace,.governmeilt, and
dignity of the United States, &c.
Aid also, during the time aforesaid, to wit, on the day anct
year aforesaid, at the county aforesaid, seized and took divers
o'ther g6ods and chattels, to wit, one thousand gallons of spirituous liquors of different kinds; a large quantity of coffee and tea;
two hundred bushels of Indian' corn; $400 in amount of promissory notes, bonds, bills, and accounts due to said Bernard by

SUPREME COURT.
McKenna v. Fisk.

different persons; sundry ready-made clothing; and also a certain shantee, all of the goods and chattels, promissory notes,.bonds,
bills, and accounts of the said Bernard, then and there found, and
-being of great value, to wit, of the value of $2000, and damaged,
spoiled,-and destroyed the same, and other wrongs to the said
Bernard then and there did, against the peace, government and
dignity of the United States. By means of ivhich said several
premises, he the said Bernard saith, he is worse, and hath damage of $4000, and therefore he brings suit, &c.
BRENT AND BRENT, for plaintff.
John Doe and Richard Roe, )ledges, &c.
And the bill of exceptions was as follows:
Plainliff's Bill of Exceptions.
Bernard McKenna
v.

Chdrles B. Fisk.

At the trial of this cause, the plaintiff, to support the issue on
his part joined, offered to give evidence by a competent withess,
tending to prove that in the summer of the year 1839, the defend-,
ant, with a large force of armed men, came to the shantee, or
storehouse, of the plaintiff, in Allegany county, in the state of
Maryland, a place not within the jurisdiction of this court, and
entered into the same, and .then and there seized, took, and- carried away the goods and chattels stated in the declaration, and at
the same time offered to prove that the said shantee or storehouse was erected by the plaintiff for the.purpose of carrying on
his trade in merchandise on the line of the Chesapeake and Ohio
canal, iu said county, at, or near a place called Fifteen Mile Creek;.
and that, by the usage and practice on the said line of said canal,
said shantees were considered'temporary buildings, and could be
'removed or sold at the will ahd pleasure of the persoh erecting
them; and that the said shantee of the plaintiff was a frame house
and had posts in the ground.
And farther offered to give evidence, at the same time, to show
the value of said goods and chattels and shantee, at the time of
such taking and- carrying away and destruction thereof by the
defendant and others, to be more than $1000; but the court
would not allow the plaintiff to giye such offered evidence, or any
part thereof, to the jury, but refused to permit the, same to be

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

245

McKenna v. Fisk.

given; to which decision and refusal of the court, the plaintiff
excepts, and this his bill of exceptions is signed, sealed, and enrolled, this 28th day of December, 1841.
[L. s.]
W. C ANCH,.
JAS. S. M OtSELL.

Test:

[L. S.]

W. BRENT, Clerk.

Brent and.Brent, for the plaintiff in error.
Bradley and Coxe, for the defendant.
Brent, for plaintiff. .If there be a variance between the wit
and declaration, advantage can only be -taken of it by plea in
abatement. 2 Wheat. 55. First and third counts relate to personal
property.; second. count charges an entry, but also injury to the
personalty. Precedents in 2 Chitty's Pleading, 864, and 1 Evans's
Harris, 524; cited also Comberback, 324. There is no misjoinder, 1 Chitty 'on Pleading, 394, edition of 1819i ; cited alsoi
1 Duruf. and East, 479; 1 "Cowp. 171; case in Cowper since
overruled, but not as to the question of pleading.. Distinction bet~veen transitory and local actions, 1 Cowp. 177, 179; 1 Strange,
"646. In 4- Durnf and East, 503, there was a count. for asportation of goods, bui plaintiff nonsuited, because there was no proof.
1 Brock. Rep. 208; 1 Carth. 131; . Williams's Sauind. Rep. 72,
note ; 2 Peters, 145, where a building erected-for-purposes of trade
is said not to be.real estate;- 1 Saunders's Plead. 415 -' 2 Saund.
Rep. 74 (a); Rep. Temp. Hard. 121.
Bradley, for defendant, cited" 3 B..C. 393; 1 Chitty s Pl. 438;
2 Wilson, 394. After party has appeared, the writ is dead. 1 Bos.
and Pul. 647. Suppose declaration good; can it be sustained by
proof of- an injury committed in Maryland? 1 Tauht. 379. This
is essentially an action of trespass quare clausumfregit. 2 Saund.
Pl. and Ev. 858, marginal page; 1 Chitty's Pl. 21.
Coxe, on same side, insisted that this was essentially an action
of trespass quare elausum freqit, and that the injuries laid were
merely aggravation. Case in 2 Peters only decided the interest.
between landlord and.tenant, and not that the latter was unable
to bring trespass for an injury to his possession-.
B nii. sen., in conclusion. . Only the second count refbrs to
the storehouse. the first abd third are for injuries to the -personalty. -The seqqfid is copied exactly from Eva ns's Harris.

246

SUPREME COURT.
McKe-nna v. Fisk.

Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of -the court..
The declaration in this case contains three counts. It is alleged
in the first and third, that the defendant, with force and arms, in
the county of Washington, seized, took, detained, and destroyed
the goods and chattels belonging 1o the plaintiff, and also the
shantee or storehouse in which the goods were found, of the
value of $2o0. The only difference in the counts is in the specifichtion of the goods destroyed. In -the second count, the defeudant is charged with having, with force and arms, in the
county of Washington, broke and entered a certain. other shantde
or temporary storehouse of the plaintiff, situate and being in the
dounty of Washington.The defendant pleaded not guilty, and issue was joined on that
plea.
The plaintiff, on the trial, in support of his case, offered evidence to prove, that the defendant, with a large force of armed
men came to the storehouse or shantee of the plaintiff, in Allegany county, Maryland, entered into the same, and took and carried away the goods and chattels stated in the declaration, &a.,
and other evidence was offered to show the value of the goods.
The court refused to permit the evidence to be given to the jury.
Upon an exception to this ruling, the case is now before this court.
Tt was first urged in argument, that as the original writ in tlie
case declared that the defendant with force and arms, &c., broke
into the storeh6use of the plaintiff, &c., it was such a declaration
'of the nature of'the complaint, which the defendant was required
to answer, that it must be considered as the gist of each count,
and that there was such a variance between the counts and the
writ that it would abate the writ. Admit that this fault exists,
and that the nature of the plaintiff's demand must be mentioned
in..the writ, that the defendant may know before he appears in
court the kind of complaint he is required to answer, and that
the declaration afterwards filed, or the writ, or both, shall be deficient in some legal requisite, or shall contain irregularity, informality, or mistake, which would abate the writ, the defendant
is not here in a situation to avail himself of the fault. He has
pleaded not guilty. This plea refers to the counts and not to the
writ. It puts the plaintiff to prove the material allegations in
his declaration, and the defendant assumes by it to cuntest them.

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

247

McKenna v. Fisk.

To allow, then, a defendant, after the general issue has been
pleaded, to avail himself of any defect or mistake in the writ, or
variance or repugnancy between the count and the writ, would
be, not to. try the cause at issue, but would have the effect to
take it from the jury and to place it before the court, upon a
point of pleading which has not been pleaded, and which is unconnected with the merits of the cause. Such mistakes, either in
the writ, or in a variance between the count and the writ, must
be taken advantage of by a plea in abatement. And if the mistake or fault is apparent on the face of the declaration, such as a
of
misstatement of the cause of action, it will be a good, cause
Dig. Abatement, G, I, s;'
demurrer. 3 Black. Com. 301; Com.
Wilfes, 410; 1 Show. 91; 1 Salk. 212; Duvall and Craig, 2
Wheat. 45, 55. The case, then, is not in a condition' to enable the
defendant to avail himself of the objection. But is there any
such variance in this case. We think not. The writ mentions a
trespasswith force and arms upon the storehouse of the plaintiff, and the seizure and destruction of goods. This puts the defendant in possession of the complaint against him, or what he
will be required to answer before he appears in court. It is but
the commencement of the suit, and is sufficient, if it advises the
defendant of the cause of action, without those particulars which
must be set out in the declaration, which, when filed, gives the
defendant an opportunity to use any of those defences or pleas
to which lie may be entitled by the rules of pleading.
It was also urged that the venue laid in each of the counts was
so imperfect'that the evidence offered could not be received to support either of them. -That it could not be received under the
second count,.for that was quare clausum fregit in the county
of Washington, iind the evidence proved a local trespass, within
another jurisdiction or sovereignty; and that it could not be
received ufder the first and third counts; -because, though they
might be counts, for transitory causes of action, it was necessary
to lay a venue where the trespass was committed with a scilicet,
to let in the evidence at any other place of trial. The evidence
offered as to the local count was certainly not coampetent; but
that is because the venue is local, and cannot be changed into
any other county than where the trespass to the realty was done,
and never can be carried out of the sovereignty in which the

SUPREME COURT.
McKenna v. Fisk.

land is. But it .is an established rule, that in transitory actions a
venue is only necessary to be laid to give a place for trial. Such
a venue is indispensable, for without it would not appear in what
county the trial was to take place, nor could a jury be summoned
to try the. issue. Com. Dig. Pleader, C, 20 ; 1 Cowp. 176, 177;
5 Term Rep. 620; 2 Lev. 227; Bacon's Ab. Venue, C; 3 Term
Rep. 387. The venue for trial is a legal fiction, devised for the
,furtherance of justice, and cannot be traversed. So thht, if A becomes indebted to B, or commits a tort upon his person or upon
his personal property in Paris, an action in either case may be
maintained against A in England, if he is there found, upon a
declaration alleging a cause of action to have occurred in an
English county, in which the action'is laid, without taking notice
of the foreign place. 1 Cowp. 177-179. Lord Mansfield said:
But as to transitory actions, there is not, a co]our of doubt
but that any action which is transitory may be laid 'in any county
'in England, though the matter arises beyond the seas. Mostyn v.
Fabrigas, 1 Cowp. 161." In Doulson v. Matthews and another,
4 D. and East, 503, (a case in all its particulars like this,) which
was an action for entering the plaintiff's house in Canada and
expelling him, and in which there was a count for taking away
his goods, Lord Kenyon nonsuited the plaintiff because the
first count was local, and because he had not supported his second
count by proof. Buller, Justice, also said: It is now too late for
us to inquire whether it was wise and politic to make a distinction Ibetween transitory and local actions: it is sufficient for the
.coulfts, that the law has settled the distinction, and that an action
quare dlausum fregit is local. We may try actions here, which
are in their nature transitory, arising out of a transaction abroad;
but not such as are in their nature local. In RaTael v. Verelst,
'2W. Black. 1055, which was a trespass committed in the dominions
of'a fdreign prince, De Grey, Chief Justice, said: Crimes are, in
their nature local, and the jurisdiction of crimes is local. And so
as to the rights of real property, the subject being fixed and immovable. But personal injuries are of a transitory nature, and
sequuntur forum rei. And though in all declarations of trespass it is laid contra pacem regis, yet that is only matter of
form and not traversable. The same doctrine in respect to local
and transitory actions has been repeatedly affirmed in the courts

"ANUARY .TERM, 1843.

249

McKenna v. Fisk.

of the states of this Union. IStra. 646; 2W. Black. 1070; lCowp.
176; 4 Term Rep. 503-507; Cowp. 587; 6 East, 598, 599; Com.
Dig. Action, 177;"1 Cowp. 161,.177, 178, 184, 344; 2 H. Black.
145, 161; Co. Litt. a, n. 1; 3 Term Rep. 616; 7 Term Rep. 243;
1 Saund. n. 2; Glen v. Hodges, 9 Johns. 67; Gardner v.Thomas,
14 Johns. 134. It then appears from out books, that the courts
in England have been open in casesg of trespass other- than tres.-pass uponreal property, to foreigners as.wll as to subjects, and
td foreigners--against foreigners when found in England, for tres'iasses'committed within the realm and out of the realm. or
within or without, the king's foreign dominions. - And it also appears from the authorities which hake, been cited, that in a transitory action of trespass, it is only nec.ssary to lay a venue for a
place of trial, and that such venue is good without stating where
the trespass. was in fact committed, with a-scilicet of the county
in which the action is brought.
The courts in the District of Columbit.have a like jurisdiction
in trespass upon personal property with the courts in,Engaid"
and in the states of this'Union, and in 'the absence of 'tatutory
provisions, in the trial of them must apply the same common
law principles which regulate the mode of bringing such actions,
the pleadings, and the-proof. It is our opinion, that the exception
taken by the plaintiff to the ruling of the court, in respect to:the
evidence excluded, must be sustained; and we direct the cause to
be remandeforfurther proceedings.
ORDE1.

This cause'qam on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the ICirchit Court of the United States for the District of
Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, andc was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said
Circuit Court in this cause be and .the same is hereby reversed,
with costs, and that this cause be and tfie same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with- directions to award a
venire facias de novo.
VOL. .- 2

