JANUARY

LESSEE OF SARAH I.

P'ERM, 1843.

JEWELL AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.

BENJAMIN JEWELL AN4D OTHERS, DEFENDANTS.

The declarations of a. deceased member of a family that the parents'of it never
were married, are admissible in evidence whether his connection with that
family was by blood or marriage.
The acts and declarations of theparties being giren in evidence on both sides,
on the question of marriage, an adyertisement announcing their separation
and appearing in the principal commercial newspaper of the place of their
residence immediately atter their sep;ration, is part of-the res gesta, and admissible. in evidence. Whether or not it was inserted by the party, and if it
was, wlat-were his motives, are questions of fact for the. jury.
If tt written contract between the parties be offered in evidence, the purport of
which-is to show that. the parties lived together on another basis than marriage, and the opposite party either denies the authenticity of the paper or
alleges that.it was obtained by fraud.; the question, whether there was a marriage or not, is still open to the jury upon the whole of the evidence.
Upon the two questions, 1st. Whether, "if before any sexual connection between.
.the parties, they, in the_.,resence of her family and friends, agreed to marry,
and did afterwards live together as man and wife," it was A legal marriage
and the -tie indissoluble. even by mutual consent; and, 2d. Whether, ":ifthe
contract be 3nade per verbs de presenti, and remains without cohabitation, or
it Inade per verba de futur, and be followed by consummation,"t amounts'
to a valid marriage, which the parties (being competent as to age and.con.
sent) cannot dissolve, and is as equally binding as if made in fade ecdesiea;
the court can express no opinion,.being equally divided.
THis case was brought up,-by writ uf Verrbr, from tle Circuit
Court for the district of South Carolina..
The facts which were not denied were few; nearly all the
evidence being of a contradictory -character. All this evidence
was br6ught to the notice of this court, in the argument, in consequence of the refusal of the court below to. grant the third instruction Prayed for by the plaintiffs, which instruction will bd
stated, hereafter.
The admitted facts were these:
About the' year 1794 or 1795, Benjaimin. Jewell became acquainted with Sophie Prevost, a.young girl, who, With her family,
had shortly before emigrated frim-the West Indies to Savannah.
They lived together and continued to do so for many years. They
resided but a short time in Savahnah, then removed -to Barnwell,
iu South Carolina, and.-finally' to Charleston. During this time,

220

SUPREME COURT.
Jewell's Lessee 'et aL v. Jewett et al.

many childien were born, who-vere reared in the house~where
their parents lived, the mother passing by 'the name of Mrs.
Jewell. I.n the year 1810, they separated by 'mutual consent,
after executing the following paper.
"Articles of agreement between Benjamin Jewell and Sophie
Prevost, and receipt of Sophie Prevost, dated 1810 and 1811.
"Articles of agreement entered into this 4th day"of December,
1810; Benjamin Jewell on the one part, and Sophie Prevost on
the other.
"Whereas, the said Benjamin Jewell and Sophie Prevost have
cohabited for.several years past, and have had eight'children, but
are now willing and desirous to separate ana live asunaer3 on
certain terms and conditi6ns hereinaftef specified: Now this instrument of writing witnesseth, that the said B. Jewell and Sophie Prevost do agree henceforward to live separate. and asunder.
"The said B. Jewell, on his part, consents and engages that
the said Sophie Prevost shall have under her sole and absolate
control, and.free from all restraint or control by the said B. Jewelf, the following children, viz.: Juliana, DanieI afnd Washington,
each hild havibg its clothing. The said Saphie"Prevost, on hr
part, engages and consents, that the said B. Jewell shalI have
under his sole and absolute control and free from all restraint or
control by the said Sophie Prevost, .he 'following children,.viz.:"
Benjamin, Joseph, Hannah, Hetty, and Delia, with their clothing.
The said Sophie is to pay all tie expenses of clothing, education,
and maintehance of the children above allotted to her; and the
said Benjamin Jewell -is to pay all the expenses of clothing, education, and maintenance of the children allotted to him; and
moreover engages to pay for one year's schooling, viz., the sum
of $40 for the child Juliana, in order to'complete her schooling.
"The said Sophie engages not to disturb the said Benjamin, in
respect to the management of the children allotted to him, nor in
any manner control or interfere with them. And the said Benjamin engages in like manner in respectto those children assigned
to the said Sophie.
."And in consideration of this sepatation and consent to live
.asunder, the said Benjamin engages to pay to the said Sophie
Prevost the sum of $3000; an~l to give her a bill of salo of the
.fellow Jesse, the girl Harriet i the wench Nalicy, with her three

JANUARY TERM. 1843:
J1ewell's Lesse.

i21

et al. v. Jewell et al.

children, Charlotte, Maryj and Charles; also, the following articles
of furniture, (here'follows a.list offurniture ;) and -in consideration of the above, on the part of said Benjamin Jewell, the said
Sophie Prevost doth hereby release and discharge the said Benjamin Jewell from all claims and demands whatsoever. In witness
whereof, the parties to these presents have set their hands, this
4th of December,'1810.
BENJSAMIN JEWELL,
"W. L. SMITH.

SOPHIE PREVOST.'

(Note. The signature of W. L. Smith in the original paper is
written with pencil.)
It was admitted that. Sophie Prevost gave- sundry receip. fd-"
the cash and furniture.mentioned in the above agreement.
It was furiher admitted, that in June, 1813, Benjamin Jewell
was married in Richmond, Virginia, to Sarah Isaacs, by' the regular minister of the Hebrew congregation, according to the rites
and ceremonies oosQrved by the Jews, soon after which they removed to the state of Louisiana.
In 1818, Sophie Prevost married a map by the name of Storne,
contihnuing to reside -in Charleston.
In 1328, Benjamin Jewell died, intestate,, ia Louisiana;:.and.
his widow and children livigg there, brought an ejectment against"
his childreh in Charleston, to recover a house and lot, of.which
the latter were in possession.
The whole question turned upon the validity of the -first mafriage; there being, no controversy about the validity of the second, in case Jewell, at the time of contracting the second makriage, had not a wife living..
To support the first" marriage, it -was given in eidence by Sophie Prevost, (who had released her interest in the property in
dispute,) and by others, that at the time of the marriage-she and
her family had recently arrived from the West Indies; that she
wvas very young; that they brought with them some negroes of
whom'Jewell received three as her portion; that, in consequence
of her being b Catholic and Jewell a Jew, the-ceremony of' marriage between them was performed by a magistrate named White.
in the presence of her family and other persons; that she .was
entirely ignorant of the Engli~h language;, that 'she lived with
Jewell as his wife, in his house, and uylder his name-; that they
removed to Barnwell district in South Carolina, Nivheie also she
T2

SUPREME COURT.
Jewell's Lessee et 'a. v. Jewell et al.

associated with the neighbourhood as his wife; that they then
removed to Charleston, where Jewell kept a clothing store; that
she attended to the" concerns of the shop and family as Mrs.
Jewell; that the, children ,vere circumcised -according to the Jewish laws, and that none but legitimate children are so; that she
1,06, she executed
was recognised in society as his wife; that, ini
Jewell
had mortgaged,
prop.erty
which
of
dower
in
some
a release
and that such release .was in the form which the law prescribed
for wives; that according to. the general opinion among Hebrews,
a marriage, in the scriptural sense, between a Christian .and-a
Jewess is not legal; but that the Jewish law considers a connection
between a Hebrew man afid a Christian woman, as concubinage;
that it is the duty of a Je.wto obey the laws of the cointry in
which he lives; that, if.a divorce b-. obtained accdrding to their
law, by mutual consent, it is not considered unlawful to marry
again; that the man writes a paper to the effect that th'e woman
is at liberty to marry again, and the act on the part of the woman
is her receiving it and assenting to it.
The evidence offered by the plaintiffs in the suit below; to
rebut the idea fhat a marriage had ever taken place between
Jewell and Sophie Prevost was, in the first place, the following
paper:
" Savannah, 10th March, 1796.
"Received of Benjamin Jewell, the sum of five hundred dollars, in full for the cause of action which I brought against himr
on a prom'ise of marriage; which sum of five hundred dollars, I
acknQwledge to be in'fuill compensation, and from which I do
Yelease and exonerate the said Benjamin Jewell of all actions,
demands, or engagements, whatsoever, from the beginniiig of
the world to the present day. '[The remaining part of .the
paper is characterized by the court as gross and indecent, and
the Reporter does riot think prope.r to insert it. Its purport
was to recognise a continuance, of the conhection on another
basis than marriage.]

SoRHI. PROvOsT.

"Witness,
HARRIs, GEo. J. HULL."
It was alsb given in evidence by the plaintilTs- that the above
paper was recorded in the clerk's office of the Stiperior Couri for
Chatham county, (the county in which Savannah is situated,) in

"CHARLES

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

223

Jewel's Lessee et al. v.-Jewell et al.

the month of A.ugust after its date, on the cath of Mr. Harris,
one of the subscribing witnesses. The handwriting of Mr.
Harris, waJo was a distinguished counsellor at law in Savannah,
as well as that of Hull, the other subscribing witness, who was a
dephity marshal of Georgia; was proved by a judge and bir one
of-the members of the Savannah-bar. It was also givei in evidence that Charles Harris was of the highest standing and character; was a distinguished-man in the state, and understood and
spoke- French fluenly. No other part, of the paper was in his
handwriting except the -words "witn es s, Charles Harris."
It x~as -also given in evidence by the plaintiffs, that upon an
examination of the minutes of the courts, where the record of
magistrate still remains, the name of White, who wds said to
have performed the marriage deremony, did not appear as a jus-"
lice of the'peace, in Savannah, in the year 1796, or at any time
previous.
It was also given in evidence by the plaintiffs, that Jewell and
Sophie Prevost-were not considered to be married, by one Bokbot,
the clerk 6f Jewell, or by the persons with whom he associated.
It was further given in evidence on behalf- of the plaintiffs, by
the Rev. Mr. Poznanski, the officiating minister of the. Hebrew
congregation in Charleston, that'if 4 Jew -hag a child by a person
who is nota Jewess, the rite of circumOision may be performed,
and that it is not necessary (for circumcision) that the child should
be legitimate.
To -rebut all this evidence, the'defendants gave testimony, by
Sophie Prevost or Jewell, that she never signed the paper, purporting to be a releas6 of all damages,&c., or any paper of the
kind, and -th.t she never was acquainted with either .Harris or
"Hull; and by R. W. Poler, th. clerk of the court, that aldermen
of the Cdmmoi C6uncil of Savannah werd ex offlcio justices of the
peace, for all purposes, within the towdi and hamlets of Savannah,
but that he did not know whether or not White was an alderman
in the years 1794, 1795, or 1796.

There were two bills of exceptions taken in the court below;
the first of which related to the admissibility of certain evidence
which the court rejected; and the-second to the instructions
prayed to be given to the jury, and refused by the court, as also
to the instructions actually given.

224

SUPREME COURT.
Jewell's Lessee et al. ;v. Jewell et al.

The first bill of exceptions is as follows, viz.The plaintiff, to sustain his action, proved the marriage of
Benjamin Jewell, on the 30th June, 1813, with Sarah Isaacs, one
of the lessors; the geisin of Benjamin Jewell; his death; and
that the other lessors of the plaintiff are the issue of that
marriage.
The defendants, to defeat the plaintiff's action, and prove
themselves the heirs at law of Benjaiin Jewell, examined
Sophie Storne, who testified to a prior marriage between her and
Benjamin Jewell; and that he held her out as his lawful wifeand that eight children were born during, the time they lived
together; and offered in evidence, to sustain .their defence; the
'testimony on the part of the defendants contained in the schedule
.annexed to this- bill of exceptions. To rebut which evidence,'
the plaintiff offered the deedS nd papers annexed to this bill of
exceptions, signed by Sophie Storne, by the name of Sophie Prevo.t, and gave evidence that, the said-Benjamin and Sophie
separated in December, 1810; and then offered in evidence, the
declarations of one Simons, the deceased husband. of, one of the
defendants, that his wife's mother was not married.to her father;
which evidence, the court overruled, and the plaintiff excepted
-thereto. And the plaintiff further offered in evidence a file of the
Charleston Courier for the year 1811, and showed that the -manuscripts or originals, from which the paper of that day was published, are lost or mislaid; and that the Charleston Courier was
then the leading comniercial paper in Charlest6n, where the parties lived, and offered to read from the file the following notice,
as published on the 22d January, 1811, and for three successive
weeks from that time, viz."NOTICE." The subscriber forbids all persons from giving credit to .Mrs;
Sophie Prevost, on.his account, as he will pay no debis whatever
she may contract.
(Signed,)
"BENJAMIN JEWELL."

But the court refused to allow the evidence to be read; to
which ruling of the court the plaintiff excepted.
Second bill of exceptions :-And at-the triq of the said cause,
after the parties had produced the evidence in the schedule hereto

JANUARY TERM; 1843.
Jewell's Lessee

et al. v.,Jewell

225

et al.

annexed, the plaintiffs desired tile said justices to instruct the
jury, as follows:
1. That if Sophie Prevost and Benjamin Jewell agreed to live
in concubinage, and, under that agreement, co habitel .togqther,
the connexion is not matrimony, althoiigh they passed themselves
off, to other perisons, as man and wife.
2. That if,
Benjamin Jewell and Sophie Prevost asserted, contrary to the fact; that they were married; when, in reality, they
had agreed to cohabit- without marriage, such assertion will not
change the nature of their connexion so as to legitimate- the
children that were the produce of that unibn.
3.. That if the jury do not believe that Benjamin Jewell and
Sophie Prevost were married by a magistrate in Savannah, in the
year "1796, or before that time, then there is no evidence of a
marriage before them, on which they can find the defendants to
be the legitimate heirs of Benjamin Jewell.
4. That if the said Benjamin and Sophie were living in concubinage in 1796,,under the" agreement produced in evidence, and
continued to cohabit together afterwards, such cohabitation.will
not amount to marriage, notwithstanding their representations to
th rd persons, unless there was a distict agreemefit between
them to rescind the former agreement, and to stand to each other
thenceforward in the relation of husband and wife. And ,that
if such new agreement be relied on, it ought to be established by
satisfactory proof, and cannot be inferred from common reputation.
. That if there was a. promise. of marriage, followed by
sexual intercourse betwien-Benjamin Jewell and Sophie Prevost,
and she afterwards sued him for breach of marriage promise, or
received a sum of money in satisfaction of the injury done fier
by refusing to marry her, the promise is thereby released, and the
promise and subsequent intercourse do not constitute the parittes
man and wife.
6. .That'a promise to marry at a future time, followed by cohabitation, does not constitute marriage, though the promise beaccepted at the time when it was made.
And the defendantg prayed the justices to instruct the jury:
1. Tiat if they.believe that before'any sexual connexion between Miss Prevost and Benjamin jewell, Mr. Jewell and Miss
'VOL. I.-29

226

SUPREME COURTJewell's Lessee et al. v. Jewell et al.

Prevost, in the presence of her family and his friends, agreed td
marryiand did afterwards live together'as man and wife, the tie
was indissoluble even by mutual consent.
2. That if the jury-believe a riarriage was celebrated in Savannah by a magistrate, the moment the celebration was over,
the contract was perfect aid indissoluble.
•3. That even if the paper signed in Savannah in March, 1796,
Was signed .bySophie Prevost, and was .so signed when she was
unmarried, still it was iot an indissoluble coniract, but one which
the parties were at full liberty to cancel-and retract. And that
the constaitt admission by both parties that they were man and
wife,-their reception in society, his calling her to renounce hez
dower, are evidence to authorize tie jury to draw the conclusion
that Mr.Jewell and Sophie Prevost had concluded and agreed to
become and live together as lawful husband and wife prior io
1810; and if so, the separation does not affect 'the- right of the
children of that marriage; they are legitimate.
And the said jusiMes refused the third instruction prayed by the
plaintiffs. And as to the sixth instruction prayed by the plaintiffs, the said.justices instructed the jury, that "if the contradt be
made per verba de presenti, and'remains without cohabitation,
or if. made per verba de jutiro,and be followed by constimmafion, it amounts to a valid marriage, and which the parties (being
cdmpetent as to age and consent) cannot dissolve; and it is
equally binding as if madd in facie cclesih." 2 Kent's Com.
86, 3d'.edlt. To which refusal and' instruction the plainiffs
except. And the said Justices'gave the first instruction prayed
by.the defendants, to which the plaintiffs also except.
Gore and Lcqar4 attorney-general, for the plaintiffs in error.
Hunt, for defendants.
The following were the points relied upon on the part of the
plaintiffs in 4rror .
1. That the- dedlatations or Simons ought to have been admitted in evidence.
2. That the xclusiori of -the notice in the newspaper was
error.
-3.That Mrs.-Storne was clearly incompetent as a witness, if
her testiiony. ws-true, she liaving been the wife of JewelL She

JANUARY
-

TERM, 1843.

227

Jewell's Lessee et al. v..Jewell et al.

was also interested .in the eveilt of the cause. (Thispoint, liowever; was not in the bill of exceptions, and was not discussed.)
4. That the instructions asked for by the. plaintiffs, and refused by the court, ought to have been givei.
5. That there was error in the instruction given.at the request
of the defendants.
Coxe, for plaintiff. in error, entereid- into a particular examinatiori of the teitimony all of which wag before the tourt, in consequence of the refusal ot'the court below to grant the third instruction prayed, by the plaintiffs, which was, '€that if the jury
did not -believe that Benjamin -lewell and Sopliie Prevostwere married by'a magistrate in Savannah in the year 1796, or
before that time, then there was no evidence of a marriage before
them."
This investigation, as also that of the -counsel "who argued the
case.subseqr.ntly, is omitted in the report.
, As.to the admissibility'of Simons's declaiations. I Stark. 59,
(2 Eng. Com. Law, 293;) 1 Maule and Seliv. 636; 1 Stark. 69,
(2 Eng. Con.: Law, 299;) 10 East, 282; 13 Yes. 140; 1 Peters,
328.
.'As to the admissibility -of the publication in the newspaper,
.2 Stark. 66,165,166, (3 Eng. C6m. Law., 247, 296.) That gazette
is good eyidence td prove public notice, 10 Cond. Ch. Rep. 217.
As to what constitutes marriage, Dalryimple v. Dalrym ple.,'
4 Condensed Ecclesiastical Report's, 85, 488, 489 ;.4 Bac. Abr.
title "Marriage;" Easterly q. Easterly, Dyer, 305; Bac. Abr.
pl. 60; Bulle's N. P. 101,102; 3 Dane's Abr. 294,299; IS Johns.
349.i 7 Wend. 51;. 10 Watts,'158, 161, 162.
Hunt, for defendants.
* As to what constitutes marriage, Bracton, b. 1;' p. 4; c. 5,.s.7;
Swinbhrne on Espousals, 198, also. "5,.6,7,' 2,'224, 226, 227,
234; Tayldr -on Civil Law, 254, 258, 268, 277,.279 - "l Milton's
Paradise" Lost, as to the ceremony which took .place on the first
marriage; 4 MfcCord,'256'; 18 Johns. 347; 4 Johns. 53;' 2 Bla.
Rep. 877; 1 Dow's Rep. 176, 181;. Moore, 170; -Manisript
Cases. in South .Carolina, StrongfelIov v. Strongfelh.n also Billings v. Billings, decided .by Chancellor Harper; 1 Price's Rep.
83; 6 Mod. 172; '1 Dow's Rep;'189,

228

SUPREME COURT.
Jewell's-Lessee et al. v. Jewell-et aL.

As to the admissibility of the newspaper evidence, case of the
Bekkeley Peerage, 4.Camp. 401.
As to 'Simons's declarations ; no time or circumstances are
mentioned when they were made, and he does not testify to general reputation.
Legar6, for plaintiffs.
As to Simdns. His ddclarations were against his interest. Old
coats of arms, tombstones, &c. all now admitted. 1 Peters, 337;
13 Ves. 514; 'Cowp. 591, 594; 2 Russ. and Mylne, 147, 156;
2 .eond. Ch. Rep. 431 Greenl. on Evidence .159.
As to the newspaper,.7-Peters, 100; Pothier, 295, 296; 6 East,.
192; 2 Russ. and Mylne, 435.
As to what constitutes marriage, 6 Serg. and Rawle, 333;
10 Johns. 226, analogous cases of partnership; 2 Barn. and Ald.
387; 18 Johns. 348; 4 Johns. 52; 2 Dow, 462; Cunningham v.
Cunningham, 2 Dow, 504; North v. Valek, Dudley's Ch. Rip.;
6 Binney, 405; 2 Dane's Abr. 302; 2 Cowen's Phillips, 354,
-collection of cases; 'Alderson v. Clay, 1 Stark. Rep. 405, (2 Eng.
Com. Law, 445;) 2 Stark. on Evidence, 590, 688; Kelly v. Jackson, 6 Peters, 622, 62; Greenl. on Evidence, 39; 4-Hag. Ec. Rep.
519; "Dalrymple v. Dalrymple was a clear case of verba in ,presenti;"" acc ipio te."
As to the proof offered that none but the legitimate children
of the Jews are circumcised5 Gen. xvii. 9.
On the general subject of marriage, Planrke's History of Christian- Society, vol. 1; Pothier, 5, 30, 38, 39'; Swinb. 27,231,227;
Collins v. Jethro, 6 Mod. i55; 3 Dane's Abr. title "Marriage," 301,
that the canon law was never adopted in this country; Brown v.
United States, 8 Cranch, 110; 3 Dall. 281.; 2 Bibb's Rep. 343.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of ejectment brought by the plaintiffs in error
against the defendants, to recover a -house and lot in the city of
Charleston, in South Carolina. The plaintiffs claim to be the lawful wife and cfiildren of .Benjamin Jewell, deceased, who, it is
admitted, died intestate and seised of the premises in question.
The defendants also claim to be the lawful children of the same
Benjamin Jewell, by Sophie Storne, who, before her marriage,.was
named Sopbie Prevost, who is still living and has conieyed all

JANUARY TERM, 1843.
Jewell's Lessee et a l. v. Jewell et al.

her interest to her children, and the rights of the parties depdnd
altogether upoh'the validity of this marriage.
At the trial in the Circuit Court, the verdict and judgment being,
.infavour of the defendants, the case is brought here by a writ of
error, stied out Iy the 'laintiffs.
The questions before this court appear in the two bills of exceltion taken by the plaintiffs. The. testimony as set forth in the
record is voluminous, and in many instances contradictory. But
a very brief 'statement will show -the point§ of law which have
been brou'ght here for revision, and it'is unnecessary to encumber
the case with the mass of testimony which was offered to' the
jury by the respective parties, in order to prove or disprove themarriage in controversy..
The plaintiffs proved the-marriage of Benjamin Jewell, on the
30th of June, 1812, with Sarah isaacs, one of the lessors ; and that
the other lessors of the plaintiff are the issue of that marriage..
The defendants, in order to show that they, and not the plaihtiffs, were the heirs at law of Benjamin Jewell, examined Sophie
Storne, who stated that she was married to Benjamin Jewell, a't
Savannah, in Georgia, in .1794 or 1795,by a magistrate whose
name she did not recpllect, in the presence of sdverar witnesses
that the said Jewell was a Jew, and the witness a Catholic; that
her motherwould not consent that she should be married accordJewell would not consent to be
Jtat
ing to the Jewish form, and
married according to their form, aiid on that account they were
married by a magistrate; that they lived together as man and wife
many years, and that the -defendants -are the issue of that marriage; that they at length separated, and she having heard that
Jewell was married'again, thought that she also bad a right to
marry, and. accordingly married a certain Joseph Storne, with
whom she lived.some years, and who is since dead. Various acts
and declarations of the parties, and the general reputation in the
pla'es*where they lived, were also offered in evidence on the par
of the'defendants, to prove that the said Jewell and Sophie had
IVed together as man" and wife, and had constantly-acknowledged
and spoken of each other as such..
To rebut this e-fidepce, and to show-that the connection of the
parties was merely concubinage, and not marriage, several instru-'
ments 6f writing, alleged tb have been. executed by them' at dif-

23&0

SUPREME
Jewell's Lessee

COURT.

et al. v. Jewell et al.

ferent times, were offered in evidence on the part. of the plaintiffs, and also various acts of the parties and the general reputation in the places where they 'lived.
After this evidence on the part of the plaintiffs and defendants
had been given to the jury, the plaintiffs *offered the declarations
of one Simons, (the deceased husban d of one of the defendants,)
that his wife's mother was not married to her father. It was objected to by the defendants,,and rejected by the court..
The plaintiffs also further gave in evidence that the separation
took place in Charleston, in the month of December, 1810, where
it was admitted that the parties had been living together for
many years; and then produced a file of the Charleston Courier
for the year 1811 i and proved that the manuscripts or originals
from which the paper of that day was published are lost or mislaid; that it was at that time the learding commercial paper in
Charlestqn; -and thereupon offered to read from the file the following notice, as published on the 22d of January, 1811,.and for
three successive weeks from that time, viz.:
'"

NOTICE.

"The subscriber forbids all person's from giving credit to Mrs.
Sophie Prevost on his account, as he will pay no debts whatever
she may contract.
BFN.Tmix JEWELL."
But the court refused to allow the evidence to be read; and these
two points of evidence form the subject of the first exception.
The'second exception brings up the question as to what constituted a legal mariage in Georgia and South Carolina, in one
.or the other of xihich states the parties had always lived from
the time of their original connection'. Seieral instructions were
asked for onboth sides, some of which would appear not to have
been controverted; and the points before'this court will be better
understood, bf excluding all the prayers on both sides which do
not form a part of the exception, and are therefore not now the
subjects of review in this court. The exception is copfipeid to
the third andsixth instructions asked for by the plai'ntiffs, and to
the first asked for by the def'endants. They are as follows:
3. That if the jury do not believe that Benjamin Jewell and
Sophie Prevost were married by a magistrate in Savannah, in the
year 17-96, ,or before that time, then there is no evidence of a

JANUARY TERM, 1843.
Jewell's Lessee et

231

l. 'v. 'Jewell et.al.,

marriage before them, on which they can.find the defendants to.
be the legitimate heirs of Benjamin Jewell.
6. That a promise to marry at a future time, followed by co:
habitation, does not constitute marriage, though the promise be
accepted at the time when it was made
Defendaift's prayer. 1st. That if the jury believe that before
any sexual connection between Sophie Pre~iost and Benjamin
Jewell, they, in the presence of her family, and his friends, agreed
to marry, and did afterwards live together as man and wife, the
tie was indissollble even by mutual consent.
Whereupon the court gave the instruction requested by the defendant, and ref'used the third instruction asked for by the plain-,
tiff; and upon the 'sixth.directed the jury that if the contract be
made per.verba de presenti, aird remains without cohabitation,
or if made per veiyba de futuro,, and be followed by consummation, it amounts to a" valid: ma1riage, and which .the parties
(being competent as to age and consent) cannot dissolve i and
it is equally bindijg.as if made in facie ecelesim.. To this refusal
and instruction the-plaintiff excepted.
We proceed to examine the questions p resented by these exceptions in the order in which they are stated.
Tie first poiht in the first exception is upon the rejection of
the declarations of Simons, the deceased husband of one of the
defendants. It is true that Simons cannot be presumed to have
known of his own personal knowledge the particular fact of
which he wa's speaking; and he mfust have made the statement
upon inforhnation derived from bthers. . He does iot appear to
have named the person from Whom he obtained His inforniafion,nor to have stated that his knowledge was derived from the ge-neral -understanding and reputation in his wife's family.' But
the knowledge of events of this description most generally exists
in every family, and hence the declaratiqns of one of its mdmbers is admissible, although he does not:mention the source from
which he derived his information; and such declarations are
equally admissible whether his connection with the family is by
blood ormarriage. In the case of Vowles 7. Young, 13 Yes. 140.
testimiony precisely similar-to that now offered was ieceived; and,
we thinlk the declarations of Simons ought to have-been admitted.
and that the Circuit Court eried in rejecting them.

232

SUPREME COURT.
Tewdll's Lessee et a]. v. Jewell et al.

The second point in this exception 'was upon the admissibility
of the advertisement in 'the Charleston. Courier; and upon this
point also weve differ in bpinion with the Circuit Court.
It was adtmitted that the parties had cohabitedtogether. for -a
long time, and that.the defendants were the issue of that intercourse-; and in order to prove that their mother *as married to
Jewell, the aets and declarations of the parties during their cohabitation were offered it evidence by the defendants, (and were
unquestionably admissible,) to prove, that" during that time she
was. acknowledged and treated by Jewell as his lawful wife.
Acts and aeclarations were also offeredl on the part of the plaintiffs, to prove the contrary. The separation took place in December, 1810, in Charleston, where the parties had-livea together for
nlany-years,, and this- advertisement appeared in the principal
commercial paper of the place in the January following. It was
"offergd by the plaintiff, like theacts and declarations above mentioned, on his Part to rebut the testimony which had been given
by the defendants; and this advertisement would manifestly have
been admissible on the same rules of evidence, if it had appeared
while the parties were'still living together or at the moment of
separation. And although they had parted a short time before
the -publication, yet it followed so immediately afterwards, that il;
must. be regarded as'a part of the res gesta, and as one of the
circumstances connected with the separation and previous cohabitation. Whether it was insetted by Jewell or not; and if it
was, what were -his motives for so- doing, are questibns for- the
consideration of, the jury and not for the court. The*plaintiff
had a right to'show the fact that such an advertisement.did appear- at, the time mentioned, and it was with the- jury to detedmine the degree of vWeight,, if any, to which this fact was entitled,
taking into .,consideration all -the, circumstances under which it
appeared.
As relates to the points contained in the second exception, we
think the court were right in refusing the third instruction
requested by the plaintiffs. In ordei to explain the question
intended to be raised by'this prayer, it is proper to. state, that' in
addition to the testimony of Sophie Storne, herein before mentioned, certain acts and declarations of the parties, which it is not
necessary to set forth at large, were given in evidence by the de-

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

233

Jewell's.L~ssee et al. v. Jewell et al.

fendants, by other witiesses, to prove that the parties were
married at Savannah, aboup the time -mentioned by Sophie
Storne, and before they cohabited together. The plaintiff, on the
contrary, in order to prove that they -were not married, and that
she went to live with him as his concubine, offered in evidence a
paper, purporting to be-signdd by the parties, and dated March
the 10th1 1796, by which there was an open and-plairi agreement
on her part to become the mistress 'of Jewell. The paper is
gross and indecent in its -language, and-it is unnecessary to state
more particularly its contents. The third instruction asked for
by the plafitiff is founded upon the assumption that this paper
is genuine, and insists that if the marriage did not take place
before its date, then the intercourse began under this agreement,
and their subsequent cohabitation niust be presumed to hav6
been of the same description, unless an actual marriage afterwards was proved. But the answer to the argument is, that the
authenticity of the paper is denied by the defendants, who contend that it was fabricated by Jewell, or, if signed by Sophie,
that she was entrapped and deceived, and ignorant of its contents.
The question,'therefore, is open to the jury, upon the whole evidence, to determine upon what terms and inwhat character the
connection originally began; and' the evidence offered by the
defendants, that they lived together for so many years as maln
and wife, and treated and spake of each other as such, are cer-.
tainly admissible to show that a marriage had taken place between them at some time or other, and whether before or after
the date of the paper could not be material.
The regidue of the instructions contained in this exception all
involve the question as to what constituted marriage, at the time
of this coh6.bitation, by the laws of Georgia and South Carolina.
The q'uestion has, of course, no concern with the nature .and
character of the union of man and wife in 'a religious point-of
view. But regarding it (as a court of justice must do) nerely
as a civil contract, and deciding in what form it ought to haire
been celebrated in order to give the- parties the legal rights of
property which belong to the husband or the wife, and to-render
ihe issue legitimate, the Circuit Court held, and so instrudtecl the
jury, that if they believed that, before any sexual conhexion between-the parties, they, Inthe presence of her family and friends,
U2
VOL. I.-SO

234

SUPREME COURT.
fBank of the'Metropolis v. New. England
Ba'nk.

agreed to inarry, and did afterwards live together as man and wife,
the tie was indissoluble even by mutual consent. And that if
the contract be made per verba depresenti, and remains without
cohabitation; or if made per verba de futuro, and be followed
by consummation, it amounts to a valid marriage, and which the
parties (being competent as to age hnd consent) cannot dissolve;
and that it is equally binding as if made in fiacie ecelesiw.
Upon the point thus decided, this court is equally divided; and
no opinion can therefore be given. Upon the questions, however,
contained ih th6 first .exception, the judgment of the Circuit
Court mast be'reversed, and a venire de novo awarded.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of
-South Carolinas and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be ard the
same is hereby reversed, with, costs, and that this cause be and
the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to award a venire Jaciasde novo.

THE PRESIDENT AND DiREcTosts OF THE BANK OF THE METROPOLIS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. THE PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS, AND
COMPANY OF THE NEw ENGIAND BANK, DEFENDANTS.
*Whenthere ha-e been, for seyera years.mntual and extensive dealings between
two banks,.and an account current kept between them, in which'they mutually
credited each other with the proceeds of all paper remitted for collection,
when received, and charged all-costs of protests, postage, &p.; accounts.regularly transmitted from the one to the other and settled upon these principles;
and upon the -face 6f the paper transmitted, it always appeared to be the
-property of the respective. banks, and to be remitted by each of them upon
its own account; there is a lien for a general balance of account upon the
aper thus transmitted, no matter who miy be its real owner.

T-nis dase was brought .up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court for the District of Columbia.

