JANUARY 'TERM, 1 I3.

197

Ellis et al v. A am. of Taylor.

tion of the equitable bar, by laipse of time: we hold, therefore,.
that the Circuit Court.propexly dismissed their bill, and we actordingly, affirm the decree of that court.
ORPER.-

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of' the United States for the district of
Indiana, and was, argued by counsel. .'Onconsideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and-decreed by this court, that the decree
of the said Circuit Court inthis cause-be and the.same is hereby
affirmed, with costs.

THoMAs E.

ELLIS, JONATHAN M.

H'ILL) DANIEL ROPER' AND

* BETHEA, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. THOMAS

OF MONTR&viLE

D.

TAYxos't

T. B.

JqNES, ADMINISTRATOR

DECEASED-.

The law of the state of Alabama,-passea in lS:l, c. 26, s. 5, which autho 1" 6
securities to require of the dreditor forthwith to put the bond, &c.in suit,
agaifst the principal, and absolves, the security unless the creditor commences suit aniduses due diligence to.'collect the.debt. from ,thQ principal,
dods noi include a case where the parties (principal and security) unite in a
joint and several sealed bill.,

THxs .case was brought ulrby-writ of error'from the Circuit
Court of the Uifited- States for the. southern district of Alabama.
Ot 'the 16th'of January, 1837, the plaintiffs in error executed
thd following bill.
"~~O
Wileox Ox
C , lla., JanuaY, 16, 1837
Twe ie. months-after di-te, we of either of us promise to pay
Montraville D Tdylor, or bearer; the sum of fiv thousdnd dollars, value received 'of him, ds witness our hands and seals.
THOMAS E. ELLIS,
[L. S.]
[L. S.]
M..HILL,
JONATHAN
[L. s.]
'A Ropnrt,
T. B. BETHEA,

[L. S.]

At"some time'after the date and 'delivery of the above bill,
Taylor, the'. obligee., died intestate, and Thomas Jones, a -citizen
of the state, of North Carolina, became his administrator.
R,2.

198

SUPREME COURT.
Ellis et al. v. Adm. of Taylor.

-

In November, 1839,.Jones brought suit against all the obligors
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district
of Alabama. The defendants were returned "not found ;" but
the suit being renewed to March term, 1840, they were all served
,with process except Hill, who was never reached,
Bethea and Roper severed in their pleas from Ellis. The latter
pleaded usury, and that he. had only received $400Q for'the bill.
Bethea and Roper pleaded that they were only sureties, but their
plea nzt being sustained, a jury was emparinelled, who found a
verdict against the whole three, for $4000. As far as Ellis was
concerned, there was no appeal, and the only question before this
court was upon the validity of.the pleas of Bethea and Roper.
In order to understand these pleas, it is necessary to refer to
the laws of Alabama.
The act, of 1821, c. 26, s. 5, (found in Aikin's Digest, 2d ed.,
title "Securities," s. 6, p. 385,) is as follows:
"When any. person or persons shall become bound .as'security.
or'securities, by. bond, bill, or note, for the payment 6f money or
an' other article, and shall apprehend that his or their principal
or principals is or are likely to become insolvent, or to migrate
.0om this state without previously discharging any such bond,
bill, or note, it shall be lairful for such security or securities in
every such case, (provided an action shal have accrued on such
.bond; bill,, or note,) to' require, by notice in -writing, of his or
theiW creditor or creditors, forth with, to put the bond, bill, or note, .
by which he or -they may be" bound ,as security or: securities, as
aforesaid, iii' suit; and unless the creditor, or creditors so required'
to put such bond, 'bill', or note in suit, shall in areasonable time
conimence an action on such bond) bill, or note, and proceed with
.due diligence in the' ordinary.course of law, to recover judgment
for, and by execution to make, the amount due by such bond,
'.bill, or note, the creditor or'creditors, so failing to' comply with
the requisition of suchi security or securities, shall thereby forfeit
the rilht which he ,orilfiey 6therwise would have had, to demand
and receive of such'security or-securities, the aumount which may
be due by such bond, bill,-or note."
Bethea and, Roper filed two pleas; the. first of which alleged
that they.were sureties'; that Ellis'alone received the consideration for the bill'; 'that 'the intestat6 knew' this; that Iuntil the-

1ANUARY TERM,. 1843.

199"

Ellis et al. v. Adm: -of .T.aylor,
,1839, Ellis was solvent, in good credit, and had
day of
day. of July"
property sufficient to pay thedebt; that on the
1838, in the lifetime of the intestate, they gave notice that he
was required to institute -suit against Ellis; that by reasonable
diligence, he-could have collected the debt from the principal;
that the intestate did not and would not pr6secute his demand
within a reasonable time thereafter, but did not sue *until the
commencement of this suit; and that Ellis had become insolveni.
.The second plea stated the same, in substance, with the addition-that the notice, given to the intestateirequiring him to sue, was
-

in writing.
To these pleas a replication was put in, averring, that in the
single bill sealed with the seals df the defendants, Bethea and
Roper. did, jointly and -severally -with the said Ellis, promise to
pay; and thereby admitted themselves as'principals. in the said
note; and that they ought not to be permitted to aver- that they
.are sureties and not principals, nor that they had no interest. in
the consideration thereof, because -of the admission and promise
in the bill aforesaid.
*To this replication there was -a demurrer, and a joinder in
demurrer.
The judgment of the court was, That -the replication was sufficient in law, and that the demurrer should be overruled; frpm
which .judgment.Bethea and Roper brought the case up, by writ
of error..
for the plaintiffs in error.
R
B. Jo/hn't
* Jones, for the appellee.
JoKnson's point was, that the law of Alabama authorizes such
a defence as was made by the plea, without regard to the foim
which the obligation sued upon may assune, when, in fact, the
relation of piincipaland.security exists; or, at least, so allows it,
if such fact is known to thle creditor.
It is averred in the pleadings, that the intestate knew that they
were sureties, and that they gave notice to the administrator to
proceed against'the principal, which notice. was given :in writ,ng. In 1 Stewart, 11,. the plea was the same as in this' case;
replication that the notice was. not in. writing; on demurrer,
deciaed in favour of the- defendant. 4 Porter, 232, is suppbsed

200

SUPREME COURT.
Ellis et -al. v. A&m. of -Taylor.

to overrule the above, but it is shoWn .not to do so by- 9 Porter, 334.
The statute is a cumulative, remedy, and it is' iherefore only
necessary to aver the facts neglect and insolvency. The law is
the same in New York. See 13 Johns. 174.
As to the second plea:. The statute (Aikin's Dig. of Laws of
Alabama) requires three .things.
1. 'There shall be a note, &c., fbi the payment of money.
2. That notice hall be given to the holder;
3. That there must be a neglect on his part.
It is admitted here that the pleas contain all these averments,
but the replication says that- the.: obligation - being' joint and
several., all were pfincipals; and the .qu6stion is, whether, the
instiument being under seal, the fact 6f suretiship can be inquired
into. Is the statute applicable to.cases where the fact of sureti-"
:ship does not appear on the face of -the instrument?
Generil rule ', that p~rol evidence is not admissible to. vary
written contract; but there are exceptions, one of which is,
, where two"-pArties are bound, but one is only surety. 2 Stark.
This being the law, the act
ed. of 1834, p. 773, title ":Surety."
did not intenjd to shut it out, for it meant tohenefit the surety,
and n ot. the- creditor. The first; second; and third 'sections all
show.this.. By -the ac. of 1811, c. 1, s. 2, (same Digest, 164,)
parol evidence must be admitted, or the iheriff could not comply
.- ith the act. See also act'of 1827, c. 27. The eases sustain
this. I Stewart; 13 Johns. (above cited;)' 5 Porter, 443; and
3 Stewart, 9, 160.
JonesT, forappellee, maintained, that the xeplication, though but
" re-avermnt of what sufficiently. appears in the declaration and
on the face. of the cause of action itself;wyas a good 'answer to the
plea;'and-was'pfoperly sustained on demurrer: that the plea
itself was bad on general demurrer, and he was, for that reason,
entiiled to judgment on the demurrer.
Case in 13 Jbhnspn stands on special, ground; the bolder of the
-note had promised to sue the principal. King v. Baldwin, 2 Johns."
Ch. Rep. 552-554, lays down the rule with great clearfiess, that
if the creditor, gives time to principal by a positive act, it dis-'
vharges the surety. 'But it must he by a positive act. See 10

JANUARY- TERM, 1843.

.201

'Ellis et al. v. Adm. of Taylor.

Peters, 257; 3 Wheat.. 52.0;. 7 Peters, 126. Plea defective, because does not say. tor how long a time the creditor neglected
to sue principal; what is reasonable time is a question of law,
and the time must be stated.
Law.says where a person is b6und as surety: but this case .is
not so; he is: bound as principal. Starkie refers to the case of
co-obligors, and not that of bbligee against obligor. The case in
9 Porter iswhere one Was bound expressly as'surety. Statute is
a penal one.
Johnson, in reply.
1s Johnson only re-affirms 7 Johnson,-which carried-out the
English doctrine. 13 Johnson cited with approbation in Sprigg
v. Bank of Mount Pleasant; 10 Peters, 266. Statute not pehal,
but remedial. In 1811 began to protect surety, but did not carry
it far enough. They substituted a legal presumption of mischief
for actual proof, by making notice conclusive. Nothing in the
act to require suretiship'to be apparent on the face of the instrument.. It is adm.'itted that after surety has paid the debt, he :may
,enter, up judgment against the principal: did legislature then,
intend surety to be sued before he should have any relief? In
Alabama, all contracts are several as well as joint, and therefore
all would be shut out.
Not an open question, 3 Stewart, 9, 160; in 1830 where a bill
of surety was dismissed, because he bad a defe'nce at law by
giving notice to the creditor and did- not avail himself of it.
*9 Porter says statute is a cumulative remedy.
Jones refers the Court to -United States v. Bradley, 5 Petcrs, 264.
The court being equally divided, the judgment of the court
below was affirmed.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from.thp Circuit Court of the United 'States for the southern district of Alabama, and was argued by counsei. On consideration
Vhereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this: court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be and the
same is hereby affirmed, with cosfs and damages at the rate of
six per centum per annum.
VOL. L-26

