SUPREME COURT.

W LLIAzi T, MOCLURG, JORN C. PARRY, AND ENObH J. HIGBY,
PARTNERS, DOING BUSINESS UNDER THE"FI10 OF MCCLURG, PARRit,
AND HIGBY, ASSIGNEES OF JAMES HARLEY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,
v.. LAWRENCE KINGSLAND,
PARTNERt,

IsAAc LIGHTNER. AND .JAXES CUDDY,

DOING BUSINESS UNDER THE FIRI

OF ,KINGSLAND, LIGHT-

NER, AND CUDDY, DEFENDANTS.

If a person employed in the manufactory of another, while receiving wages,
makes experiments at the expense and in the manufactory of his employer;
has his -wagesincreased in consequence of the useful result of the experiments; makes the article invented and permits his employer to use it, no
'compensation for its use being paid or demanded; and then obtains a patent,
these facts will justify the presumption of a license to use. the invention.
,Sudh an unmolested and notorious use of the invention prior to the application
for a patent, will bring the case within the provisions tif the 7th section of the.
act ot 1839, c. 88.
The assignees- of a patent-right take it subject to the legal consequences of the
t .previous acts of the patentee.
The '14th. and 15th-sections of the act -of 1836, c -57, prescribe the rules which
.must govern on the trial of actions for the violation of patent-rights; and these
seation's are operative, so far 'as they are applicable, notwithstanding the
' patent may have been granted before the passage of the .act of 1836
any newly invented machine, manufacture, or composition of matThe words, f'
Ser," in the 7th section of the act of 1839, have the same meaning as "invention',' or "thing patented."

THis-case was brought up by writ of- error from the Circuit
oCourt 'of the United States for. the western district of Pennsylvania.
The facts are sufficiently stated in the opinion of the court.
The*bill of'exdeptions which was taken on the trial below was
as fQllovs : .
And the plaintiff thereupon excepted to certain -parts of the
instructions so given by the court to the jury, which instructions
so excepted to are hereinafter set foith, to wit:

"It has, however, been urged by the plaintiff's counsel that the
right to the continued 'use is restricted to the 'specific machine,
manufacture, or-cbmposition of matter so made or purchased,' so

that a defendant is protected no farther than in the case of the
invention (for which this patent was granted) prior to the application, and is liable. to damages if-he makes any rolls byHarley's
.plan afterwards.

JANUARY TERM, "1843.
McOlurg et al. v. Kingsland et al.

"We, therefore, feel bound to take the words, ' newly invented
machine,' in the act of.. 1839, manufacture, or.composition of
matter and such invention, to mean the invention patented, and
the words 'specific machine,' to refer to the thing originally
invented, where-of the exclusive right is procured by patent,
but not to any. newly discovered improvement to an existing
patent.
"The use of the patent must be of the same specific improvement originally invented, as was before the application used by
any person Who had purchased or constructed the machinery on
which he operated to produce the effect described in the specificatiori; but when such-person confines the future case to the specific mode, method,, manner, and process of producing the described effect, it it by the words and true meaning of the lair,
without liability to the iiventor or other person interested in the
invention, so construed; and by thus protecting the person who
hhs.engaged the use of ai invention before the application for a
patent, the great object of the patent laws, as declared in the 4th
section -of the act of 1837, will be consimmated; that is, to protect the rights of the public and ' of patentees in patented inventions and improvements.' 4 Story, 2547. A different construction
would make it )neoessary to carry into all the former laws the
sam .literal exposition of the various terms used to express the
same thing, and thereby changing the law according to every
change of phraseology, make -it a labyrinth of inextricable confusion.
"Our opinion, therefore, is, that the defendants have a right to
the continued use of the improvement patented to Harley; the
facts of the case, which are not controverted, have. equal 'effect
with a license, and the evidence brings the defendant under the
protection of the act of 1839, by the unmolested notorious use
of the invention before the application for a patent. Nothing
has been shown -on the part of the plaintiffs to counteract the
effect of this prior use; as-assignees of Harley, they stand in his
place as to right atid responsibility; they took the patent, subject
to the legal consequences of his previous acts, and cotinecting
these with the want of an assertion of d right, to the use by the
defendants of the invention patented, till this suit was brought in
September, 1835, protects them from liability.

204

SUPREME .COURT.'
McClurg et al. v. Kingsland et al.

"In our opinion, your verdict- ought to be for the defendants.
Veidict accordingly, and judgment for defendants."
-Dunlap, on behalf of the plaintiffs in error, contended that the
court below had erred in charging the jury.
1. That the facts justified the presumption of a license or grant
to use the invention, and that defendants were Drotected thereby,
independent of any act of Congress.
2. That the words, "specific machine," in the 4th section of
the act of :1839, referred to the invention itself, and that the authority to use it before the patent cariied the right to continue to
make and use it after the patent had issued.
.Mr.
Justice'.BALDWIN'delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes here on a writ of error to the Circuit Court
-fof the western district of :Pennsylvania, in an action brought by
the plaintiffs, assignees of James Harley, agaifiit the. defendants,
for the infringenent of a patent granted to .Harley for an improvement in the . iode of casting chilled rollers and other metallic cylinders and cones, in which judgment.was rendered for
the defendants. On the trial it appeared in evidence that it had
long been a desideratumi to find out some mode by which ironrollers or cylinders, could be so cast that when the metal was
introduced into the mould it should cause a swyrl or rotatofr
motion, by which the flog or dross would be thrown into the
epntre. instead of the surface of the cylinder. By the old mode,
the 'metal was conveyed from the .furnace-to the mould through
a gate, or pipe, placed in a'horizontal'or porpendicular direction.
The mode alleged to have been invented by Harley is thus described in the specification annexed to the patent. "The. tube or
tubes. or passages called gates, through which the. metal. to be
conveyed int6 the moulds shall not enter the mou.ld perpehdicu.'
larly at the. botfom, but slanting, or in a, direction apptoaching to
a tangent of the cylinder, or if -the gates enter the moulds horizontally or nearly so, shall not enter in the direction of the axis
of i 16 cylinder, but in a tangent form, or inclining towards a tangent of the cylinder."
This-was the thing patented, consisting solely in changing the
direction of the tube, which conv yed the metal to the mould,

JAN UA:RY TERM,'.'1843.

205

McClurg- et al. v. Kingsland et aL

from a horizontal or perpendiculiar position to an angular one-;
it produced the desired effect and was highly useful.
The novelty 'of the invention was much contested at the.trial,
but as the ease -turned on -ot.her points, that became "in"immaterial question ; as the case comes before usi on exceptions to the
cha'rge of the court, which assumed that Harley was the original
and-true inventor of the improvement, and put the case to the
jury on the following facis, which. were- in full prpf, in nowise
cohtradicted, and admitted fo,be true.
That.Harley was employed by the d6fendants at'their -foundry
in Pittsburgh, receiving wages Trom'them by-the week; while so
employed, he claimed to have.invented the improvement patented,
and after several unsuccessful experiments-made a.-successful one
in October, 1834; the experiments-Niere made in the defendants'
foundry; and wholly at their expense, while Harley was receiving his wages, which.were increased on account of the iseful
result. Harley continued in their employment on wages until
Janua*ry or. February,. 1835, during all which time' he made
rollers -for them; he often spoke about procuring a patent, anid
prepared more than one set of papers for the purpose; made his.
application the 17th February, 1835, for a patent; it was granted>
on the 3d of March, assigned to the plaintiffs on the 16th of
March, pursuant to an agreement made in January.
While Harley continued in the defendants' employment, he proposed that they should take out a patent and purchase his 'ight,
which they declined; he made' no demand on them for any conpensation for using his improvement nor gave them any notice
not to use it, till, on some misunderstanding on another subject,
he gave them such notice, about the. time of his leaving- their
foundry, and gter making the agreement with the plaintiffs Wvho
owned a foundry in Pittsburgh, for an assignmeitto them of his
right. "The defendants continuing- to make rollers on Harley's
plan,. the present action was brought in October, 1835, without
any previous notice by them. The court left it to the jury to decide what the facts of the case were; but if they were as testifled, charged that they would fully justify the presumption of a
license, a special privilege, or grant to the defendants -to use the
'invention; that the facts amountedto "-a consent and allowance
of such use," and show such :a consideration.as would support

206

SUPRE.ME COURT
Mclurg.et al. v. Kingsland et al.

an express license or grant, or call for the presumption of' one to
meet the justice of the case, by exempting .them from, liability;
having:equal effect With a license, and giving the defendants a
right to the continued use of the invention. The court also
charged the jury, that the facts of the case, which were not controverted, brought it within the provisions of the 7th section of
the act of 1839, by.the unmolested, notorious. use of the invention, before the application for a patent by Harley, and that nothing had been shown by the plairtiffs to counterat the effect of'
this prior use. That as assignees of Harley the plaintiffs- stand
in his place, as to right and responsibility; they took the assignment of the patent, subject to the legal donsequences of his previous acts, and~connecting these with the absence of an assertion
of a right adverse tb the defendants use till this suit was brought,
protected the defendants from liability for any damages therefor.
The exceptions to the charge were confined to these two points,
-which constitute the only subject for our consideration. Whether
these exceptions -are well taken or not, must depend on the law as
it stood at the emanation of the patent,'together with such changes
as have been since made; for though they may be retrospective
in their operation, that is-not a sound objection to their validity;
the powers of Congress to legislate upon the subject of patents
is'plenary by the terms of the Constitution, and as there are no
restraints on it§ exercise, there can be no limitation of their right
to modify them.at their pleasure, so that they do not take away
the rights of property in existing patents.
When the patent to Harley was granted, and this suit brought,
the acts of" 1793 and 1800 were the tests of its validity, but the
21st section of the act of 1836 repealed all existing laws on the
subject, of patents, with a proviso, that all suits brought before
may be prosecuted in the same manner as if that act had not
been passed, " excepting and saving the application to any such
action, of the provision of the 14th and 15th sections of this act,
so far as theI may be applicable thereto." This repeal, how.ever, can have no effect to impair the right of property then
existing in a patentee, or his assignee, according to the wellestablished principles of this court in 8 Wheat. 493; the patent
must therefore stand as if the acts of 1793 and 1800 remained in
force; in other respects the 14th and 15th sections of the act of

JANUARY

TERM, 1843.

207

McClurg et al. v. Kinj1and et al.

.1836 prescribe'the ruies which must govern' on the trial.ofzbtions"
•for the -Violation of patented rights, whether granted before or
after its passage.
in Pennock v. Dialogue, this court heldyin 18.29, c That if ain
inventor makes his'discovery publiclooks on, and permiti othe$rs
freely to use it, without objection or assertion of cldim -tb,the.
invention,,of 'which the.'public .'might take notice; he abandons
the inchoate right to Ihe exclusive use of the invention, to-which
a patent would have. entitled him, had'it been applied for, before
such use, and that it makes no difference in the principle, that the
article so publicly used, and afterwards patented, was. nade by 'a
particular individual who .did so by the private permission 6f the
inventor." 2 Peters; 14, 15; S. P. Grant b. Raymond,'6 Peters,
248, 249; Shaw v. Cooper, 7 Peters, 313-323.
On this construction of the acts of .1793 and 1800, Uarley's
patent wouldhave been void, on the' dvidence'in' this case.' Such
seems to have been the sense of Congress, as-expressedin ,the
act of 1832, which authorized the issuing a new patent, when.an
original one was in'valid by accident, inadvertence,' or mistake,
and without'any fraudulent, intent, by reason of the terms of the
3d"section of*the act of 1793. not having been complied.with,
.,Prpvided, however, that such new patent so granted. shall.in all
respects be liable to the same matters of objection and'-defence
as any original patent, granted -under the said first-mentioned
act. That no public use or privilege of the invention so patented,
derived from or after the grant of the original patent, either under
any special license of the inventor, or'without the consent of the
patentee- that there shll be .free public use thereof, shall, in any
manner prejudice the right of recovery for any use or violation
,of his invention. after the*grant of such new patent, as aforesaid."
4 Story, 2301.
This .act is an affirmance of the principles laid down -bythis
court in the three cases before. referred to,' and tds the exceptiQn
to the proviso is limited to an use of .the invention .under a spe-"
cial license of the inventor after the grant of the original patent,
it leaves the use prior-to the application for such patent clearily
-bbnoxious to the principle established in 2 Peters, 14,-15, whereby
the -patent would become void.
The same conclusion follows fromh the 15th sction ot the act

SUPREME COURT.
McClurg et al. v. Kings-ian-d et al.

of 1836, which declares, that'if the thing patented "had been in
pilblic use, or on sale, with, the consent and allowance of the
patentee, before the application for a patent," judgment shall be
rendered' for the defendant with costs. 4 Story, 2511. The case
before us is one of this description: the defendants use the invent
tion of Harley for four months before his application for apatent;
this' use was public, and not only with his express consent and
allowance, but he himself made the rollers on the plan he invented
during those months, from the time when he had ascertained the
utility of his invention.
It would, therefore, be no strained,-if not the fair construction
of this act, if under such and the other circumstances in evidence
in the cause, the court had charged ihe jury, that if they believed
the witnesses, the patent subsequently obtained was void. The
Circuit Court, however, did- not go so far: they held that the defendants might continue to use the invention, without saying that
the public night use it, without liability to the plaintiffs, in which
we think there was no error in their direction to the jury; that they
might presume a license or grant from Harley, or on the legal
effect'of the uncontroverted evidence as to the right of recovery,
by the plaintiffs, or on the construction of the acts of 1793, 1800,
1832, and 1836..
The remaining exception is to the charge of the court below,
on the effect of the' 7th section of the act of 1839, which is in
these words:'' That every person or. corporation who has, or
shall have purchased or constructed any newly-invented machine,
manufacture, or composition of matter, prior to the application by
the inventor or discoverer of a patent, shall be held to possess
the right to useand vendto others to be used, the specific machine,
manufacture, or composition of matter, so made or purchased,
without liability therefore to the. inventor, or any other person
interested in such invention; and no-patent shall be held ilivalid
by reason of such purchase, sale, or use prior to the application
for a patent as aforesaid, except on proof pf abandonment of such
invention to the public, or that such purchase, sale, or prior use
has been for more than two years prior to such application for a
patent." Pamphlet Laws, 1839, 74, 75.
The object of this provision is evidently twofold; first, to prbtect the person who has used the thing patented, by having pur-

JANUARY

TERM, 1843.

McClurg et al. v. Kingsland et at.

chased, constructed, or made the machine, &c., to which the invention is applied, from any liability to the patentee or his assignee.
Second, to protect the rights, granted to the patentee,'against any
infringement by afiy other persons. This relieved him from the;
effects of former laws and their constfctigos by this court, unless in case of an abandonment of the invention, or a continued
prior use' for rhore than two years before the application for a
patent, while it puts the person who has had such prior use on
the same footing as if he had a special.license from the inventor
to use .his invention; which, if givefn before the application for a
patent, would justify the continued use after it issued without
liability.
At the trial below, and here, the plaintiff's counsel have contended, that this act cannot apply to the present case, inasmuch.
as the protection it affords to the.person who had the prior use,
is confined to the' specific- machine,.&c., and does not extend to
such use of the invention, or. thing patented, if it does not consist of a-mach*ine, &c., as contradistiriguished from the new inode
or manner in which an old machine or its parts operates, so as to
produce the desired effect; but we think that the law does not
admit of such construction, whether we look at its words or. its
manifest objects, when taken in connection with former laws,
and the decisions of this court in analogous cases.
The words "such invention" must be referred.back to the' preceding part of the sintence, in order to ascertain the subject-matter.to which it relates, which is none other than the newly-invented machine, manufacture, or composition of matter constituting
the thing patented; otheiwise these words become senseless
when the invention is-not strictly of a machine, &c. N6w, in;the.
present case, we find the invention consists solely in. the angnlar
direetion given to -the tube through. which the metal is. conducted
into the" cylinder in which the roller is.cast. Every part of the
maclfinery is old, the roller itself is no part- of the iniven'lion, and
cannot be the machine, manufacture, or composition of "matter
contemplated by Congress, ndr dan the word 4.specifie'P -have any
practical effect unless itis applied to the thing patented,whatever
it mity be, Without making a distinction lbetw'een a machine, &c:,
and the mode of producing a useful, result by the mere direction
given to one of the parts of-an'old machine. Such a construction
VoL. I.-27
s2

SUPREME COURT.
McClurg .et al. v. Kingsland -et al.

is not justified by the language of the law, and would defeatboth of its objects. 'If it does. not embrace the case before us,
the consequence would be that the useof the invention, under
the circumstances in' evidence, would, according to the decision
in 2 Peters, 14,'15, invalidate the patent; for if the act operates
to save the avoidance of the patent; it must, of cons.equence, protect the -person who uses thd inveition before the application
-for a patent. Both objects must be effected, or both must fail,
as both parts of the act refer to .the same thing; and the same
state of things, as affecting the person using the newly-invented
machine, or the. thing patented, as well as the" inventor.. Had
the Words "invention," or "thing patented," been used instead
of machine, &c., there could have been. no room for doubt of the
application of the act to the present case; abd by referrilig to the
phraseology of the. different acts of Congress denoting the invention, it is apparent that, though there-is a difference in the words
used, there is none as to their meaning or reference to the same
thing. Thus we find in the 14th section of the act of 1S36, relating
'tosuits for using "the thing whereof the exclusive right is secured
by any patent," in the 15th, "his' invention, his discovery, the
thing patented," "that which was in fact invented or discovered
"the invention or discovery for which the patent issued," "that
of which he was the first inventor." In the 1st section of the
act of 1837. "any patent for aiay invention, discovery, orjnprove-.
mc'nt," "inventions and discoveries;" in the 2d section, 4'the invention.;" in the 3d, "invention or discovery ;" in' the 4th, "patented inventions and improvements ;" in the 5th, "the -thing as
originally invented." •4-Story, 2510, 2511, 2546.
We, therefore, feel bound to take the words "newly-invented
machine, manufacture, or composition of natter" arid "such invention,".in the act of 1839, to mean the "invention patented,"
and the words " specific machine," to refer to "the" thing as originally invented," whereof the right is secured by patent ; but
not to any newly-invented improvement on a thing once p.atented.
The use of the invention before an appli.cation for 'apatent must
be the specific improveinent then invented and used/by the person who had purchased, donstructed, or used the .machine. to
which the invention is applied: so construed, the objects of the
act of 1839 are, accomplished ; a different construction would

JANUARY

TERM, 1843.

211

Connor v. Bradley pt ux.
make it- necessary to carry into all former laws the same literal
exposition of'the various terms used to express the same thing,
and fhereby changing the law according to every change of nere
phraseology, make it a labyrinth of inextridable confusion.
We are, therefore, of opinion that there is no error in the charge
of the court below, and that its judgment be affir'med.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the 'transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the western district
of Pennsylvania and was argued by counsel. On cousideration
whereof, it is ndv- here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said 'Circuit Court in this cause be and the
same is hereby affirmed, with costm.

MARY ANN CONNOR, V. HENRY BRADLEY AND MARY, 111S WIFE.
rn.an action of ejectment, if the plaintiff count upon a lease to himself -from a
person whom the evidence shows to have been .dead at the time, it is bdd.
It is a settled rule at common law, that where a right of re-entry.is claimed on
the ground of forfeiture for nonpayment of rent, there must be proof of a
demand of the precise sum due at a convenient time before sunset, on the
day when the rent is itue, upon the land, in the most notorious place of it,
even though there be no person on th land to pay.
In proceeding under the statute of,4 Geo. 2, it must be alleged and proved, that
there was no sufficient distress" upon the premises on some day or period
between tlhe time at which the rent felt due and the day of the demise; and
if the time when, according to the prdofs, there was not asufficient distress
upon the premiaes, be -ubsequent to 'the day of the demise, it is bad.
THis case was brought up by writ of error, to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Columbia and county of
Washington.
The case"was this:
In 1807, William Prout, living in the city of Washington, and
being the owner,.in fee, of d lot .in said city, made a lease of a
part ofit to Joseph B. Parsons, for the term of ninety-nine years,
renewable forever.
It was in' the usual form and contained
the hsual covtenants, (with the exception of the one hereafter

