JANUARY TERM, 18M.

CHARIES

MCKNIGHT, APPELLANT,

V. LAWENCE

B. "TAYLOR,

TRUSTEE, &C.

There-must be conscience, good faith, and reasonable diligence, to call into
action the ppwers of.a court of equity.
In matters of account, where they are not barred by the act of limitations,.
cQurts of equity refuse to interfere, after a considerable lapse of time;from
considerations of public policy, and from. the difficulty of. doing entire justice,.when the original transactions have become obscure by time, and theevidence may be lost.

THis was an appeal from the equity side -of the Circuit Court
of*the United States for the Distiict of Columbia, holden in and
for the.county of. Alexandria
The facts in the case are fully stated in the opinion of. the
court, to which the readdr is referred.
Semmes and Jones, for.the appellant.
4ee and ffradZey, for the appellee.
Semmes, for the appellant, contended that the decree of the
court below was. erroneous, and should be reversed for -the fol.owmg,:among other reasons.
1. Because there is no equity in.the bill or supplemental bill,
andno case made for the interference of the court.
2. Because it decrees debts to be paid which the record shows
has-already been paid.
3. Because it decrees the debt mentioned in the schedule as
that dile to Thomas.Janney andtCo., to be paid tb Jbhn Lloyd, who
claims by virtue of various assignments named in said decree.
4. Because it did not allow the appellant, a lien onar pro rata
dividend out of the trust fund for the debts paid off, and assigned
for .his use, as shown: in the record.
5. Because the court should have presumed payment of the
debts, in the absence of- all evidence- showing them still due, after
the great lapse of time, or, if the oourt believed them still unpaid,
they should have presumed an. abandonment of the claims by the
creditors from their laches and the lapse of time ; and therefore
erred in.decreeing-relief to claimants whose demands were stale,
and who bad knowingly, slept upon-their rights.
VOL. L-21
o2

162

SUPREME COURT.
McKnight v. Taylor.

6. Because the court should, for like reason, have presumed a
performance of the covenant contained in the deed of trust executed between the appellant and Robert 1. Taylor, for payment
of the schedule debts-a release of the same, or that it was
abandoned or extinguished.
7. Because, if the said covenant was any part of the grounds
or foundation-of their decree, the court erred in decreeing upon
it in favour of parties between whom and the covenantor there
was no privity; or, if there was any sudh privity, then, because
the covenant was a personal matter, disconnected from the trust,
and upon which the remedy was by action at law; and more
especially as there was no prayer in the bill for an enforcement
of the covenant.
8. Because, if it was right under the circumstances to give any.
relief at all, the eourt should have decreed only theprincipal of
the debts found due, and should, on account of the laches, have
refused to allow any interest, on .the principle on which the account
of profits was denied in Acherly v.%Roe, 5 Ves. 565; or, upon
the principle of Pickering v. Lord Stamford, 2 Yes. jr. 272, 581,
interest should have been allowed only from the filing of the
bill; the plaintiffs having gone into equity for general relief, and
not for an enforcement of the covenant in the deed, on which
there was full remeay at law..
On the subject of the lapse of time, he cited 5 Leigh, 350;
6 Wheat. 481; 4 Johns. 1; 9 Peters, 416; 5 Leigh, 381; 7 Johns;
556j 2 Nott and McCord, 360; 9 Leigh, 393; 2 - ldwin, 477;
Cowper, 1Q9.
Bradley, for appellee.
As to lapse of time: there was a covenant between McKnight
and Taylor, the consideration -of which was the forbearance of
creditors'to sue, and they did 'forbear. " 3 Swanston', 417. As to
the presumption of payment: it is not well settled whether'it is
a matter of fact or law. Hughes v. Edwards, 9 Wheat.; same
case in Cond. Rep. 654, 655; Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheat.
152 same ca e in'Cond.'Rep. 55, 56. See also, 10 Leigh, 284.
J.ones,.-for appellant.
A decree must.follow the equity of the bill, bdt the court below
h.s not done it. Hellary v. Waller, 12 Vesey, .settles the rule

JANUARY TERM,- 1843.
MoKnight v. Taylor.

that a court of equity vill put itself in the position, of a court
and' jury. The trustee, here, had full legal power to sell without
coming to equity, and courts act on different principles when
called upon to lend their aid, than when acting regularly. Ambler, 645. The creditors, generally, do not answer or take any
notice, but appear to have abandoned the claim. Only one acts.
This, circumstance ought to be coupled with the staleness of the
demand.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the decree of. the- Circuit Court of the
District of Columbia, for the county of Alexandria, sitting in
chancery.
It appears from the record, that the appellant Charles
McKnight, by deed bearing date the 29th day -of September,
1813, conveyed to Robert L Taylor, certain real property described in the deed, situate in the town of Alexandria, upon trust,
to permit the appellant to occupy the same, and to receive the
rents and profits without account, until a sale shorid become necessary, under the terms of the deed ; and if he, the said Charles
McKnight, should not on ,he 1st day of April, 1818, have paid
the several creditors named in a schedule, annexed, to the deed,
the debts therein mentioned with interest, then the said Robert L
Taylor should, on -notice of such. default from any one of the
said creditors or his representatives, proceed to sell the- said pro-.
perty, or so much thereof as might be necessary, for cash at
public auction, after giving three weeks notice of the time and
-place of sale, by advertisement in any paper published in Alexandria, and after defraying the reasonable expenses of sale, discharge the aforesaid debts with all interest due thereon.
The bill in this case was filed in August, 1837, by Robert L
Taylor, the trustee above mentioned, ar.d after setting forth the
deed of trust, proceeds to state that Thomas Janney and Co.
(who are named as reditors in the $chedule) had assigned the
debt.due to them, to Joseph Janney in triust for the payment' of
their creditors; and that Joseph Janney, under a provision inthe
diped.of assignment,.afterwards -transferrMd the same to George
Johnson, in trust ?or the same purpose; and that the complainant
had -been required by the said George Johnson, and by certain

164

.SUPREME

COURT.

McKnight v. Taylor.

other creditors named inthe schedule, (hut who are not named
in the bill,) to-sell the premises, so as .aforesaid conyeyed to him
in execution of the trust; that the debts mentioned in the schedule were due fromi MoKnight, the appellant, and John Stewart,
who had been trading under the firm of McKnight and S.tewart,
and .that no part of any of them had been paid. The bill further
states that bWfore the execution of this deed, the -appellant had,
on the, 30th of A'pril, 1808, conveyed a part of the same premises
to a certain Jacob Hoffman, in order to secure Thomas Janney,
against his responsibility as endorser on' two notes discounted at
the Bank of Alexandria and the Bank of Potomnae; and that
the said notes hid' been long before paid, although the property
had not been re-coidveyed to the appellant:' that McKnight was
giving out that tie debts in the schedule had beei all paid, aid,
threatened to withhold possession if the trustee-proceeded to sell
"under the deed, and that from these declarations of the appellaht,
and the outstanding legal title, the sale could not be made without injury to the interests'of the parties concerned, without the
aid of the Court of Chancery; and prays proce"ss against the
heirs of-Hoffman, (he -being dead,) and against McKnight and
Stewart, and all of the creditors named in the schedule; and,
among the rest, against George Johnson, in order that they may
be compelled to appear and answ, the. several matters charged
in thebill. A supplemental bill was afterwards filed, in order to
make additional parties, and for other purposes; but in the view
which the court take of this subject it is unnecessary to state its
contents. The creditors secured by the deed of trust are eleven
in number, their respective claims varying irr amount: the lowest
being $85 72, and the higlhesi-S1227 19. The trustee, Robert .
Taylor, is himself one, and the debt due -him stated to be $21-.54.To this bill Hugh -Smith, one of the creditors, whose debt'was
$151, answered, saying merely'that his claim is still due.
James Carson, another of the creditorf" whose claim .was
$85 72, answered and admitteathat he had been paid.
The heirs of Ioffman also answered, and admitted that the
notes intended to be secured by the conveyance.to their'father,
had been -paid;.and submit themselves to such decree as -the
court may deem just.
:The answer of lthe appellant, sr.-far as-it is material to set fqrth

JANUARY TERM, 1.843.

165

McKnight v. Taylor.

its contents, states that the claim of Thomas Janney and Co.
which was $1022 69, was due upon open account, and that the
respondent was eiititled .tda deduction of considerably more thian
$ O for money overpaid by mistalie on the settlement. of. a
former account, but thiat he cannot-find-a memorandum in writing
to establish it, which he knows did once exist; and that after the
'execution of the deed of trust he transferred to Thomas Janney,
on account of this debt, the note of a certain Jonathan Mandyille, for $467 08, due, on the 20th of January, 1815, which, from
what .Janner himself afterwards told him, he believes to haver
-been paid;'.and in respect to this Item, his answer is responsive
-to .the bill He also specifies several creditors whose. claims he
states 'that.he has pdid, and among them the trustee,. Robert I.
Taylor, and he sets forth. the manner in which he satisfied that
debt. ' Some of the creditors mentioned 4n the schedule are not,
however, named in his answer; and he mentions three whom he
admits that he has not paid, and makes th6 same- admission as to
the small balance which would be due to Thomas Janney and
Co.., after deducting the credits claimed by him as above stated;
but he does not adiit that these debts are yet. due, and insists'
,that there is every ieason to believe that they were paid by his
former partfier, Stewart, who was equally liable with hiinself;'or,
if not paid, that it was owing to the negligence and laches of the"
creditors in not proceeding against him; the respondent alleging
that St ewart, after the dissolution of the partnership with him,
removed to Martinsburg, in Virginia, ab6ut the yea 1812, *here
he carried on a prosperous business until his death in 1825, and
was fully able to pay these debts if the dreditors had used proper
diligence to recover them; and he relies upon the lapse of time
as a good defence upon principles of equity against this proceeding.
There is a'general-replication -to .this answer; and it appears
in evidence' that upon the dissolution of the partnership' of
M9cKnight afid Stewart, in 1812, a notice of it'was published in
the n6wspapers, stating that McKnight was authorized to collect
the debts and settle the business of the concerri.
And'a witnesswas also examined on the, part of tine complainant, who states,,
* ihatfrom a perfect knowledge of the pecuniary situati'n of Stewart, from 1812, until his death,,he knows .that he was -insolvent-

166

SUPREME COURT.
McKnight v. Taylor.

when he removed from Alexandria to Martinsburg, and that he
continued and died insolvent; that he had no property he could
call his own, and out of which an old debt of $100 or $200
cbuld have.been made.
It also appears in evidence, that Thomas Tanney- and Co., on
the 30th of April, 1823, assigned all their effects and claims to
Joseph Janney, in trust to pay their debts. That by virtue of a
provision contained in this deed of assignmen, Joseph Janney
afterwards, on the 10th of August, 1829; renounced the further
execution of the trust, and transferred all the'prop'ertF and claims
that remained .n. his bands to George Johnson, in trust for the
sane purposes fof which they had" been conveyed to him. And
on the 14th of Tovember, 1837, after this till was filed, Johnson
sold and assigned all the effects and claims which he then held as
trustee of Thomas Janny and Co., to John Lloyd, of Alexandria;
and on the same day executed a power of' attorney in his favour,
authorizing him to receive whatever might be recovered in ihis
suit, or on any other claims of Thomas Janney and Co., and to
compromise and settle them in any manner he might think proper. The consideration paid by Lloyd is"not stated, nor indeed
does it appear by the assignment, that any consideration whatever was paid. The deed of assignment merely states that Johnson had sold these effects and claims to Lloyd, and authorizes
him to collect, compromise, and settle them.
The -bill was taken pro confesso against all of thie creditors
wvho had n6 t appeared and answered, and the Circuit Court proceeded on final hearink to decree that. the appellant should pay
'the full amount of the debts'mentioned in the schedule, with
interest, by a certain day specified in the decree, except those of
Joseph Janney, John Leo, and James Carson, which were admitted to have been paid; and in default of payment by the day
linited in the decree, the property was directed to be sold and
the proceeds'applied to discharge the aforesaid debts.
This is the case in its material parts, as presented in the recor&.
The oinission of the creditors to- appear 'and answer, upon which
the bill as against them was taken-pro confesso, was not, of course,
rpgarded by the Circuit Court as. establishing their claims. The
decree, we presume, proceeded upon the ground that the creditors
mentioned in the schedule were entitled to the aid of the court

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

167

McKn'ight v. Taylor.

to enforce the payment.of the whole amount originally admitted
to be due, unless the appellant could show by legal proofs that
the debt had'been since discharged.
Now, of the eight creditors in whose -favour the decree was,
made, five of them seem to have-takeh no concern in these proceedings, and for. aught that appears in the re.cord, may not have
known that it was pending; certainly there is nothing to show
that they ask or desire the interposition of-the court in the manner
sought for by the bill. Of the remaining three, one has answered
and stated that his claim is still due,'but does not ask for a sale,
nor say any thing that sanctions, on his part, the proceedings of
the trustee; and the trustee himself does not ground the bill upon
his own claim, nor allege its nonpayment as the foundation of the
suit, but places it entirely upon the notice and request of George
Johnson and other creditors, and his own duty upon such an application to proceed to sell aceording to the provisions in the' deed
of trust. But,,although the application is alleged to be made by
other creditors, as well as George Johnson, yet no other creditor
has appeared to claim the execution of the trust; and, as they
were all made defendants and called to answer, and have refused,
or neglected to appear, the bill under the provisions of the. deed
must be regarded as founded exclusively uponthe application of
the creditor named in it; and as instituted and conducted without
the co-operation or request of any other creditor.
In relation to this claim, it appears' that nineteen years and
three months were suffered to elapse, before, any application was
made for the executioi of the tfust by which it had been secured.
No reason is assigned for this.delay; nor is it alleged to have
been occasioned in' any degree by obstacles-thrown* in -the way
by the appellant. As. the record stands, it would seem to hae
been the result of mere. negligence an-d laches. The original
creditors were in business ten years after the deed was made,
and five years after the expiration of the credit which it gave to
McKnight and Stewart. 'And as theyk became insolvent in 1823,
it must be presumed that in the last-mentioned period -they were
themselves pressed for money. The property is, situated in the
town of Alexandria, where the laws.of Virginia have been adopt.ed hy Congress; and the trustee, under these laws, had an undoubted right to sell, upon the applicti6n of any creditor, as soon

168

SUPREME COURT.
McKnight. v. 'Taylor

as default was made, without asking the'interposition of the Court
of Chancery. Such delay, under such 6ircumstances, by the original creditors, followed by fourteen years more by the assignees
who afterwards had charge of this claime, can perhaps hardly be
accounted for without suppcrsing that this debt had been nearly;
if not altogether, satisfied in the manner suggested in the answer
of the appellant. If, indeed, the suit had been postponed a few
months longer, twenty years would have expired, and in that
case,,according to the whole current of authorities, the debts in the
schedule would all have been presumed to be paid. But we do
not found our judgment upon.the presumption of payment. For
it is not merely on the presumption of payment, or in analogy to
the statute of limitations, that a court of chaucery refuses to lend
its did to stale demands. There must be conscience, good faith,
"ani reasonable diligence, tocall ifito action the powers
of the
Court. In.matters of account, where they are not barred by the
act of limitations, courts of equity refuse to interfere after a considerable lapse of time, from considerations of public policy, and
trom the difficulty of doing entiriejustice when the original.transactions have become obscure- by time, and. the evidence may be
lost. The rule upon this subject must be.considered. as settled
by the decision of this court in the case of Piatt v. Vattier, 9 Peters,;
.416; and that nothing.can call a. court of eharcery into activity
but conscience,.good. faith, and reasonable diligence and where
these are wanting, the court is passive and -does nothing; and
therefore, from the beginning. of equity jurisdiction, there was
-always a limitatjon jof suit in that court,.
Itcertainly cannot be said that there, has been any thing 'ile
reasonable diligence by any of-tho creditrg in the case before us;
and at this distance of times when- many. of the parties-originally
concerned are dead,.we. snoul4'hardly, do justice between them
if we required the appellant to. pay. the whole amount statedt.
the schedule, unless he can establish the credits he claims by legal
proofs. In fact, but bne of the creditor§ appears to have called
for this proceeding, or to- have sanctioned the institution 'f this
suit ana -the party' who now holds that .claim and seeks to enforce "it, has'obviously no equitable :ground upon wbieh 'he can
ask for a relaxation of the rile in his favour. When the assignment was made to him he Jnew it was a -disputed claim in actual

JANUARY TERM, 1843.
Bell etal.

169

v. Bruen.

litigation at the time, which had been allowed to sleep for almost
twenty years, and for which'it does. not even appear that he paid.
And as-to all of the creditors
any valuable consideration.
named in the schedule, they had originally an easy and simple
remedy in their own hands, to be used or not'at their own pleasure; and if they have suffered it t6 be lost by the lapse of time,
their own negligence can give them-no right to call into action
the powers of the Court of.Chancery.
The decree of the Circuit Court must therefore be reversed,
and the bill dismissed with-costs.
-. ORDER.

This cause came on*to be heard *on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the- United States for the District of

Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria, and
was argued by 'counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and decreed by this -court, that the decree of the'said Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is .hereby re-.
versed,'with'costs; and that this cause be and the same is hereby
remanded to the -said. Circuit Court, with directions to dismiss-

the bill of the complainant with costs.

1isrs C; BELL AND ROBERT GRANT, PLAINTiFFs IN "ERROR, V. MAT-"

THXAs BREN.
A letter of guarantee, written in the United States, and addressed to a house in
England, must be construed according io-the la'ws of that country.
Extrinsic evidence'may be used to ascertain the true impori of such an agreement, and its construction is matter of law for the court. 'In bonds, with conditions 'or the 'pertormance of duties, preceded by recitals,
the undertaking, although general in -its terms, is limited by the recital.
Commercial letters are not to be construed upoi the sarie- principles as bonds,
but ought to receive a fair and reasonable interpietation according to the
true import of the terms; to what is fairly to be presumed to have been the
•understanding of the parties; and the presumption is to be ascertained from
the fa6ts' and circumstances accompanying the entire transaction.
The court will not*express an opinion upon a-matter of defence which.was not
-brought to the consideration of theicqurt below.

VOL. .-

22

P

