THE DECISIONS
OF THE

SUPREME COWTP OF THE

ITED STATES,

AT

JANUJARY TERM,. 1843.

WILLIAM H.

WILLIAMS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JAMES ASH,

DB-

FENDANT IN ERROR.

Mrs. T. 'Greenfield, of Prince George's county, Maryland, bequeathed to her
nephew, Gerard T: Greenfidld, certain slaves, with a proviso in her will,
"that he shall not carry them out 6f the state of Maryland, or seg them to
any one; in either.of which events, I will and desire the said. negrdes shall
be free for life." After the decease of the testator, in 1839, G; T.-Greenfield
sold one of the slaves, and a petition for freedom was thereupon filed in the
Circuit Court of Washington county. The legatee continued to reside in.
Prince George's county, for two years after the decease of the testatrix, during
which time the appellee was sold by him, and he afterwards removed to the
state of Tennessee, where he had resided, before-the death of the testatrx.
The Circuit Court instructed the jury, that by the sale, the petitioner became
free. Held, that the instructions of the Circuit Court were correct.
A bequest of freedom to a slave, under the laws of Maryland, stands on the
same priiidples with a bequest over to a third person. A bequest of freedom
to a slave is a specific legacy.
The bequest of the te. tatrix of the slave to her nephew, under the restrictions
imposed by the will, was not-a restraint or alienation inconsistent with the
right to the property bequeathed to the legatee. It was a conditional limitation of freedom, andtook effect the moment the negro was sold.

IN error to the Circuit -Court of the United States for the
county of Washington, District of Columbia.
NOTs.-The report of this case was accidentally ohatted by the late reporter,
and thiS report has been furnished by him.

VOL. I.-I

A

1

2

SUPREME COURT,
Williams v. Ash.

In the Circuit Court of the county-of Washington, James Ash,
a negro, presented. a petition, stating that he was entitled to-his
freedom, and that he is held in custody. and confined in the private jail of William H. Williams. He prayed a subpcsna to
James H. Williams, and that he may have .afair trial on his
petition.
Mr.-Williamns appeared to the subpoena, and denied the title of
the petitioner to his freedom.
Issue was joined on the pleadings,-and the jury found a verdict for the petitioner, and that he was free and discharged fromthe service of Williams.
To the opinion of the court on the trial, a bill of exceptions
was tendered by the counsel for Mr. Williams. The bill of
exceptions stated, that on the trial th'e defendant produced, and
gave in evidence to the jury, the last will and testament of Maria
Ann T. Greenfield; and it was admitted that the said testatrix
died at the county of Prince George's, in the state of Maryland,
soon after the date of said will, in the year 1824; -that upon her
death, Gerard T. Greenfield, the executor named in. the will, duly
proved the same in the Orphans' Court of said county, where the
slaves and property left by the testatrix were, and took letters
testamentary as such executor.
.Thepetitioner is one of the slaves named and demised" in that
clause of the will, which- is in the Words following, to Wit:
4 I also -give and bequeath to my nephew, Gerard Ti Greenfield, all my negro slaves, namely: Ben, Mason, James Ash,
Henry, George, Lewis, Rebeeca, Kitty, Sophia, Mary Elizabeth,
Nathaniel and Maria; also, Tony, Billy, Betty, and Anne, pro*vided he shall not carry, them out of the state of Maryland, or
sell them to any one; in either of which events, I will and desire
the said negroes to be free for life."
The petitioner was a slave born, and the property of the testatrix at the time of her death; that the said G. T. Greenfield,
upon the death of said testatrix, took possession of the petitioner
and the other slaves devised to him, and held the same-as his
slaves so devised to him, from that time till the 18th day of December last, when, before the institution of this suit he sold the
petitioner to the defendant: that G. T. Greenfield at the time of
the date of said will, and ever since, resided in the state of Ten-

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

S

Williams v. Ash.

nessee, with an interval of between two and three y~ars, that he
sojourned.after the death of the testatrix, in Prince George's
county, for the purpose of settling his business. Thereupon the
court was- of ophiion, and instructdd the jury, that by the fact of
such sale of the petitioner the estate or property in the petitioner
so devised to said G. T. Greenfield ceased and determined; and
the petitioner thereupon became entitled to freedom as claimed
in his said petition: to which opinion and instruction of the
court, the defendant by his counsel excepted.
Jqdgment was rendered .for the -paintiff, and the defendant
prosecuited this writ of error.
*farbury,forthe plaintiff in error.
.Bradley,for the defendant.
*Marburycontended, that as to the first question presented
on the bill of exceptions, whether Mr. Greenfield took an absolute estate, by the terms of the will, in the .property bequeathed
-to him. A devise of personal estate in general terms, without
woids.of limitation, vests in the legatee the absolute property-in'
the thing -bequeathed. If a testator says, "I give all -my personal estate-to A. B.," without other Words, A. B. will 'take the
absolute estate in all the personal property of- wlich the testator
may die possessed.
The language of the will, in the case before the court, is as
general, comprehensive, and effective, for the purpose of passing
the whole estate, as language can be; and gives to the legatee
the'whole estate, subject only to the restriction of the right of
alienation.
There is here no limitation of the estate-no intention expreised to confine the legatee to an estate for life in the slaves,
or to give him a mere. personal benefit by the bequest.
Admitting the validity of "the restriction, if he should neither
remove the negroes or sell them, at his death they will go to his
representatives, to be distributed among his next of kin, if'he
should die intestate; and to his legatee, if he should make a
testamentary beqxesL
It has been suggested that this very restriction will operate to
limit the legatee to an estate for life; that it shows that it was
not intended he should have the absolute power and control'over
the negroes. But a restriction on the right to sell never has been

4

SUPREME COURT,
Williams v., Ash.

'construed into a limitation of the estate of the devisee, when
the language of the will passed the fee.
The proviso is a restriction on the right of alienation. The
property is given to the legatee absolutely, with a condition annexed, that he shall not sell; a condition which is repugnant to
the nature of the estate, and therefore void. Co. Lit. 206 b,
223 a.
If there be a limitation over, on the breach of such condition,
it does not alter the case. The condition itself being void, the
estate limited upon it must be void also.
What is a conditional limitation, but an estate which is to vest
on a certain condition, or the happening of a certain event, by
which a preceding estate is to be divested ? If, then, the condition on which the preceding estate is to'be divested, be unlawful
and repugnant, and therefore void, the preceding estate cannot
be divested; can a man be deprived of his estate by refusing to
do an unlawful thing, or by 'doing that which the law' autho~zes
him to do with his own? Bradley v. Peixoto, 3 Vesey, 324;
'2 Caines's Reports, 348.
It will M'e contended, on the part of the defendant in error,
that there is something in the nature of the. property which is
the subject of this devise, that requires the application of a rule
of law different from that which would be applied to a case
arising on the title or ownership to any other kind of:property
Negroes, by the laws of Maryland; are property precisely as
money in, the -funds, or household effects. "Thejus disponendi
in the master is as absolute in the one case as in the other.
How -shall the court decide in favour of the freedom of the slave,
without at the same time, and in the same 'judgment, deciding
the right of property, as claimed? Mima Queen v. Hepburn,
7 Cranch, 295.
If, on the'bieach "ofthe condition not to sell, the testatrix had
given the property in, the negroes to a third person, the limita-"
tion over would have, been declared void; because such a
restriction would be on a condition repuignant and void.
But here is a bequest of freedom, on the same repugnant cpnclusion. How is it to take effect, without denying to the master
that control over the negroes which he is by law entitled to exercise over them, and ivhich he might exercise over any other

"ANUAR' TERM, 1843.

5

Williams v. Ash.

property in like circumstances, without subjecting himself to a
forfeiture.
There fs a class of cases in which it has been held that a testator may restrain the alienation of the interest given by the
will, and limit the estate over in the case Qf alienation, whether
voluntaf'y or involuntary. This class of cases originated- in the
case of Dommett v. Bedford, 3 Vesey, 149. The principle of
this case has become a general rule of law, in the following
cases.- 13 Vesey" 404, 429; 3 Swanston, 505; 5 Mod. 515;
6 Maddox, 482.

In this class of cases, the estate is vested in trustees; and it is
provided that the interest or income shall be received by.the trustees, and a certain .portion thereof be paid- at- certain periods to
the legatees, unless they become bankrupts, or make voluntary
assignments of the amounts respectively settled in, said cases;.
whereupon, in-each case, the annuity is to cease, and the estate
is devised over. Such bequests are held .to be short of a lifeestate, and to be intended for the mere personal benefit of the
legatee.
.The cases belonging to this class differ mateially from. that
under consideration. - In them the title'to the estate is in trustees;
in the legatee of the annuity, there is nothing but a right to
receive payment of a sum 6f money, until the happening of a
given event-his becoming bankrupt, or voluntarily parting with
the right to receive it. The annuiitant takes only a life-estatethe gift was merely for his personal benefit.
By the.will in this case the legatee took to himself the absQlute property in the negroes bequeathed. The enjoyment of
them is not-limited to a mere personal benefit The property
does not cease at his death, but wilL pass to, his representatives,
to be disposed of, or distributed according to law.
Bradley, for the defendant.
This is a will. The intention of the testatrix to be gathered
from all the parts of the will, is to be effected, if it can be, without- contra'vening some settled principle-of law. :Smith v. Bell,
Peters, 75, and the-cases cited...
.
What estate did Gerard take? What effect had the exportation and. sale?
There are two bequests, one of property in the slaves, to Ge-

6

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v

Ash.

rard', supposed to be absolute; another of freedom to the slaves,
upon the happening of either of two events, defeating the first
devise, and therefore limitingit. If these events are repugnant
to the devise to Gerard, does that prevent their happening? If
they happen, must they not give rise to the devise over?
The intent of the testatrix is clear. She meant to give Gerard
a qualified, not an absolute estate, and to limit it to the happening of the event she has prescribed.
The bequest of freedom is not a cbndition annexed to the estate of Gerard; it is a conditional limitation of that estate, contingent, until the event occurs, but becoming absolute so soon as
that has happened. Preston on Est's., 40; Feam. on Remain.
11, 14, 16.
It might be void as a bare condition, as to Gerard; yet good as
ax limitation, as to the slaves.
She meant to give to the slaves a higher and nobler bequest.
W'hat is it? Property? The same interest she had given to Ge'rard? The same estate or power? If so, how is it to be estimated? By what law to be controlled?
Freedom is not to be valued. Lee v. Lee, 8 Peters, 48. A
question of freedom is superior to any question of property.
Allen v. Wallingsford, 10 Peters, 583. It is a question deserving
the favour of eourts. Fenwick v. Chapman, 9 Peters, 476. Isaacs
v. -Randolph's Executors, 6 Rand. 652.
Ii construing the will, we must look to the subject-matter of
both devises. The first relates to property, the second to freedom, and yet both relate to the same subject. And what i it?
Is it merely property? They are slaves; but they are human
beings. They may acquire freedom by implication. Mullen v.
Hall, 5 Harris -and Johns; 190; Legrand v. Darnell, 2 Peters, 664.
They ate recognised as persons in the Constitution of the United
States, art. 1, sect. 9, par. 1 ; sect. 2, part 3 ; art. 4, sect. 2, par. 3.
They are so recognised by courts of justice. The law of common carriers does not apply to them. Boyce v. Anderson, 2 Peters, 155. Humanity forbids the separation of mothers from infant children, and the court will not sanction it. Fitzhugh aud
wife v. Foote and others, 3 Call. 13.
If, then, the chatacter of 'the bequest over be different from
that given to Gerard-superior to property-not to be valued-

JANUARY TERM, 184.

7

Williams v. Ash.

deserving the favour of the courts, of a wholly different nature;
and the intent of the testatrix in regard to this bequest over be
clear, shall that intent be defeated by rules adopted solely for the
regulation of property ? Is there any preeedent controlling this
court?
It is conceded she might have given to Gerard a life-estate,
and freedom to the slaves upon his death. . She could then certainly have granted a less estate, and have made this to depend
up'on a certain or uncertain event.. Then it is immaterial how
this event is brought about, by the acf of Gerard, or operation
of law.
She might have given a life-estaie in the usufruct, to be terminated by his aliening during his life, and remainder to the slaves.
Dommett v. Bedford, 6 T. R. 684; Brandon v. Robinson,
18 Vesey, 429; Yarnold v. Morehouse, 1 Russ. and Mylne, 364;
Legget v. Lear, 2 Sim. 479; 4 Russ. and Mylne, 690.
Did she intend to give Gerard during his life any thing more
than the usufruct ?
If she has so expressed herself, that this restraint upon alienation amounts to a limitation of the previous estate, and-there is i
devise over, it is not necessarily so repugnant as to be void, but
may be carried into effect. Wilkinson vi Wilkinson, 3 Swan.
515; Coop. C. C. 259; 2 Wils. C; C. 47.
She has so expressed herself, and it was her clear intent. Besides, upon this question of intent, we must look to the relation
of the parties. The first taker is her nephew. She meant to
aid himbut it must be in her own manner, by his taking a qualified estate to be -held in vlaryland. The others are her slaves,
grown up around her, to whom she is attached-for whom she
intends, as far as possible, to provide protection. She knows the
laws, climate, customs under which-they have" been protebted,
and grown-she does not know whither they may be carried.
-'She leaves them to the charge of this nephew, submolo, qualifying and restraining his power over them. There is a great
primary intent pervading the whole will, ain intent controlling
the rights conferred on Gerard, and that is the protection and
preservation of these objects of her bounty, in what she thinks
the best condition for them. Is this intent opposed by any settled
principle of law?

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v. Ash.

It is said the law in regard to slaves, and the rules of evidence
in cases of freedom are the same as in all cases of personal property,*and the case of Mima'Queen, 7 Cranch, 290, is relied on
as sustainihg this position. We deny it. The whole point of
that case is as to the admissibility of hearsay evidence to prove
a specific fact. We agree that the rules of evidence are and
must be the sami, and we invoke the aid of that principle. We
apply it to ascertain the intent of the testatrix.
Bat are the laws of personaf property applicable? Upon
what principld? Upon what adjudicated case? What laws?
Shall we go to England? 'To her system of villanage, as it once,
existed, in the only part of her political or judicial frame which was
ever supposed to bear the least analogy to this. Trace out the
analogies and see how few they are. In'what do they resemble
each other? Even under that condition, such acase as this could
never have arisen. We can get no aid from her jurisprudence.
Shall we go to the laws of the several states? Our search
would be equally vain here. The right which is held in a slave
is so modified by statutory provisions, by local cauises,.by custom,
by the common law, by the social condition, and by the lbeal and
political position of each stite, that we can derive no important
aid from them. It is emphatically a subject of peculiar regulation: But wherever we do fina the right-to manumit, we find
this cardinal point, that suits for freedom are to be favoured, pervading and controlling the judicial .decisions.
The laws of personal property are not applicable.
Colour, in a slaveholding state is' a badge of slavery. It is
not so where slavery does not exist.. Accompanied by possession
in the former state, it is evidence of litle. An adverse possession
of a slave for a period corresponding with the statute of limitations gives title in a slave. Hardeson v. Hays, 4 Yerg. 507; Partee
v.Badget, 4 ,Yerg. 174; Brent v. Chapman, 5 Cranch, 358 ;
Shelby ,v. Guy; 11 Wheat. 361; Garth's Executors v. Barksdale;
5 Munf. 101 ; Carter v. Carter,. 5 Minf. 108 ; 1Newby v. Blakey,
3 Hen. and Mun. 57; Smart v. Baughj 3 J. J. Marsh. 363.
But no length of possession, however open,.notorious, and absolute, can prevail against a claim of freedom, where the claimant
can trace back his descent from a free .maternalancestor. Rawlings v. Boston, 3 Harris and McHen. 139; or'.if he can show

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

9

Williams v. 'Ash.

an acquired right to freedom, perfected in himself.- Hunter v.
Futener, I Leigh, 172, and cases cited.' Burke v. Negro Joe,
6 Gill and Johns. 136.
By statutory provisions in Maryland, they are regarded as
iesponsible and intellectual beings, as "persons" capable of contracting. In some cases they are entitled to trial by jury. Maryland Act, 1751, ch. 14, sect. 4. They may contract. 1715,
ch. 44,'sect. 11. They may discharge the very responsible office
of pilots. 1788, ch. 33.
If, then, the laws of personal property apply, to what extent
do they so apply?
Considered merely-as personal property, they are subject to all
the laws regulating that species of property; they may be the
subject of contract, pass by gift or will, deseend, or be taken in execution. Their gains-belong to their owner; they can make no
contract with third parties,- without the owner's assefit, and none
with their ow.ner, and the issue of the woman is part of: the use,
the property of the person to whom the mother belongs, for tie
time being., i Har. and McH. 160, 352; 1 Har. and Johns.
526; 6 Har. and Johns. 16, 526.
Considered as human beings capable of acquiring, under-the
laws, rights paramcunt to all individual claims, and t6 be controlled only by the sovereign in the state, fromi the exercise of
which they'have been rightfully debarred by law, they acquire
a higher dignity:
In their former character they are to be considered as property.
But here the very question is, are they property? To determine
this, shall we assume that the laws of property apply, and by those
laws determine their character, and a right immeasurably above
them? Can property take property? Can a maji be indicted
for inurder'of property? Can property be entitled to a'trial by
'jury, or commit a crime, or acquire a right? Yet all this may be
d6ne by a negro;. and they all imply a reasoning faculty, a con.science, an immortal spirit, in which there can be no property.
We must look'to the laws of Maryland. The statutes there
give them power to take freedom by devise, to take effect immediately, or at a remote period, after a term of years or a lifeestate. Act '1796 and 1809. The decisions of the courts of
Maryland are in-favour of this capacity. The statutes direct two
VOL. I.-2

10

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v. Ash.

modes of emancipation; by will or deed. The courts have extended it to implied manumission, as in Dolly Mullens case, and
to adverse possession or length of time, as in Negro Joe v. Burke.
Where, then, the intent of the testator clearly appears to secure
to them liberty on the happening of an event, which has happened ; or where a doubtful form.of expression is used, which, in
regard to mere personal property, migt amount to a condition
repugnant to the bequest, and thus be void, yet in favour of
liberty, and having, a regard to the subject of the bequest and
the right intended to be conferred, the court -will construe, the
will according to the intent, and take this to be a .limitation of
the estate..
Agiin. T.he intent of the testatrix is to give freedom to the
slaves, unless they can be held in Maryland upon the terms she
has herself declared. Now if they cannot be so held in slavery,
what is to be the effect? They are free.
Again. It has been said that restraint upon alienation is vo'id.
Yet'in an executory devise this restraint-o.exists, and has' never
been disputed. Moffat v. Strong, 10 Johns. 12, Cordle v. Cordle,
6 Munf. 455.
'But, -it is saidif the devise of freedom is to depend upon the
happening of the event mentioned in the will, the first estate
must.vest, and'then the condition is Void. Not so. It does not
necessarily follow. - Stainham and Bell, Lofft: 455; Avelyn v.
Ward, 1 Ves. sen. 420; in which last case the court says, if by
any means the conditional limitation is removed, the devise over
will take effect. See also Simpson v: Vickers,. 1Y"
es. 341, and
particularly Doe ex dem. Smith. v. Hance, 6 Halstedi 244, 252254.

-

Suppose the estate of Gerard to have vested. What was its
exteot and limitation? It was not intended to be absolute. The
power to give or prevent freedom was not devised to him.
That was already, exercised.
He had a qualified property.
Slavery is the property which one man has in the labour of anothpr,.and the right to the custody and such limited use of the
person of ihat other, as the particular laws allow- The power
of the master is subordiiate to the law of the land,'and in some
cases he is allowed by that law to. give freedom in Maryland in
presenli or irzfuturo. If the niaster once exercises this author-

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

11

Williams v. Ash.

ity, itis irrevocable , the subject of it can never be reduced again
to the condition of a slave, unless by legislative provision.
Now if any right in, or power over a thing granted be reserved
to the grantor,'or devised to a third person, the person taking has
but a qualified or limited estate, it is not absolute. The grantor
or devisor, may annex to this qualified or limited estate, conditions
by which it may be terminated at a period short of that to which it
would otherwise run. The effect must be to give rise, in case of
a devise over to the new estate, if there be one devised, or the
property must revert. It cannot be that the tenant of the particular estate shall have the power to defeat the other and'usurp
the whole property to himself. Is not this the case here?
Without the proviso, the words'are as absolute as in the case
of Smith v. Bell, 6 Peters, 74. But the proviso must operate to
restrain the gefieral words in the same manner as the devise over
of the remainder in that case. She could grant a life-estate, with
freedom to take effect at its expiration, the life-estate to be forfeited
upon the happening of an event, and the devise over to take
effect. d fortiorishe might make this life-estate to depend upon
his keeping them in his own possession and in the state of Maryland. The uncertainty of the eVent can make no diffexence. 'It
has'happened.. The happening of the event is during a single
life, and, therefore, not too remote. We rhaintain, theri, that this
is not a naked condition annexed to an absolute estate and repugnant to it, and therefore void, but is a contingent limitation'
of a particular estate, with a devise over of a faculty or estate of
the highest dignity and most absolute character, to take effect on
the happening of a .contingent event by which the particular estate.
was to be terminated, which event must occur during the lifetime
of a person in being, and the event has happened. As to the
distinction between a naked condition, and. a conditional limitation, see Taylor v..'Mason, 9 Wheat..329, &c., and particularly
Smith v. Hance, 6 Halsted, 244; et 8eq.
But, is a condition in restraint of alienation necessarily void?
and are there not cases where it amounts to a limitation? The
true distinction is, that where such a condition amounts to a
limitatioa of the precedent particular estate, with a devise over, it
is good. Doe d. Duke Norfolk v. Hawke, 2 East, 481; ana
i.
Wilkinson v. Wilkinson, 3 .Swans. 515.

12

SUPREME

C'OURT.

Williams.v. Ash.

The reason-of the rule. is obvious, it is to prevent perpetuities,
and therefore the jus disponendi in an absolute estate is. not to
be taken away, but even this may be qualified. Litt. sec. 361;
Shep. Touch. 129; Gill v. Pearson, 6 East, 173; S. C. 2 Smith,
295. This last case is a clear case of a fee simple, with a condition terminating it. If the power of disposal is notabsolutely
taken away, the condition restraining it may be good. 4ackson
v. Shutz, 18 Johns. 175, and 'cases cited; McWilliams- v. Nisby,
2 Serg. and Rawle, 507. Here he might at any time have disposed of his interest-to the 'slaves themselves, by releasing it.
The case of Bradley v. Piexoto, as stated in the report, does not
warrant the exposition of it in the opinion of the Master of the
Rolls. We do, not controvert his law, for if the gift was absolute
of.both principal and dividends, that case cannot illustrate this.
If it was noi absolute, the case is wholly inconsistent with Wilkinson v: Wilkinson; Branden v. Robinson ; Dommett v. Bedford;
Legget v. Lear, &c. already cited, and particularly Bird v. Hudson, 3 Swans. 342.
We are considering.a will. The intent is to govern. Every
intent is to be effected if possible. The primary intent is to prevail. The particular intent was to give the nephew a qualified
estate. The primary intent was to. afford protection and security
to'the slaves. The restraint 'upon the nepliew does not take
away all power of-alienation. The execution of every intent
does 'not contravene any settled principle of law. The event to
determine the estate of the first taker is not too remote.
Besides it is a case in favour of liberty, to be attained by the
instruments, and in'the mode pointed out by the-statutes; a case
involving one interest of the highest dignity, and depending on
the happening, of an event to terminate another interest of. less
-importance.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEy delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought here by writ of error, from the Circuit
'Court of the District of Columbia, for Washington county, and
carhie.before that court upon a petition for freedom. It appeared on the trial, that the petitioner was the property
of Mary Ann T: Greenfield, of Prince 'George's county, in the
state of Maryland, who died in'1824, having first duly made her

JANUARY TERM. 1843;

18

Williams v. Ash.

last will and testament, whereby among .other -things sh6 bequeathedthe petitioner, with sundry other slaves, to her nephew,
Gerard T. Greenfield, with a proviso in the following words:
"Provided he shall not carry them out of the state of Maryland,
or sell them to any one; in either -of*which events I will and
devise, the said negroes to be free for life," and she appointed
her said nephew her executor.
Upon the death of the testatrix, Gerard T. Greenfield took possession of the petitioner and the otherslaves bequeathed to him,
and held them from that time until December, 1839, when he
sold the petitioner to the defendant; and the petition for freedom
was filed shortly after the sale. At the time of the making of
the will, and ever since, Gerard T. Gieenfield resided in the state.
of Tennessee; with an interval of between two and three years,
during which he sojourted in Prince George's county, after the
death of the testatrb, for the purpose of settling his business.
Upon this evidence, the Circuit Court instructed the jury, that
-by,the fact of such sale-of the petitioner, the estate or property
in the petitioner so bequeathed to Greenfield, ceased and determined, and he therefore became entitled to his freedom.
Under this direction 6f the court, -the verdict was in favour
of the petitioner.
By the laws of Maryland, as they stood at the date. of this
will, and at the time of the death of the testatrix, any person
his .slave to
might, by deed, of last will and testament, dclare ..
any
pa'rtieular
or
at
be free after any giren period of'service,
age, or upon the performance of any condition, or on the event
of any contingency.
This right is recognised in the act of Assembly, of 1809, ch. 171.
-The contingency upon which the petitioner was to become
free must, by the terms of the .will, have happened. in the lifetime of Gerard T. Greenfield; and if-he had died without selling
him, or conveying' him out of the state of Maryland, the petitioner would have continued a slaire for life. The event, therefore, upon which he was to become free was not too femote.
It is said, however, that this was a restraint on alienation inconsistent with the right of property bequeathed b' the will.
But if, instead of.giving freedom to the slave, he had been bequeathed to some third person, in the event of his being sold,-or

14

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v. Ash.

removed out of the estate by the first taker, it is evident upon
common law principles, that the limitation over would have been
good. 2 East, 481. Now a 'bequest of freedom to the slave
stands upon the same principles with a bequest over to a third
person. It is 'said by the chancellor of Maryland, 2 Bland's
Chancery Rep. 314, that the bequest of freedom to a slave is a
specific legacy, and undbubtedly this is its true legal character.
And if a bequest over'to a third person would not be regarded
as an unlawful restraint upon alienation, there can be no reason
for applying a different rule where the bequest over is freedom
to the slave. In the one case, the restriction on alienation ceases
as soon as the devise over takes effect; and in the other, the
right of property ceases upon the happening of the contingency,
and there is nothing to alien. ,
We think that the bequest in the 'vill was a.conditional limitation of freedom to the petitioner, and that it took effect the moment he was sold. The judgment of the Circuit Court must
therefore be affirmed.

*GEORGE W.

HAMMOND,

HAMMOND,

DECEASED,

DDMINISTRATOR
AND

OTHERS,

LEWIS, EXE 'UTOR OF LAWRENCE
ACTING EXECUTOR OF GEN.

DE DONJS NON OF THoAs
APPELLANTS,

v.

LORENZO

LEWIS, DECEASED, WHO WAS THE

GEORGE WASHINGTO7, APPELLEE.

In the distribution of the estate of a deceased person, an assignment, to one of
the ,distributees, of a mortgage which is for a: greater sum than his distributive share, does not make him responsible to the executors for the difference between his share and the nominal amount of the mortgage, in case the
mortgaged premises sell for less than the amount of his share, where the
distributee has, with proper diligence, and in good faith, subjected the mortgaged property to sale, and has not bound himself absolutely for the nominal
sum..secured by the mortgage.
In7 the progress of the cause. G. W. Hammond also died, and his administratrix became a party; but the suit having been an amicable one, this did notdelay 'the proceedings. It is mentioned only because sometimeb the one and
sometimes the other is spoken of 'as the person interested.-

