JANUARY TERM, 1839.

WILLIAM

B.

STOKES, PLAINTIFF ,IN ERROR, VS.

ORACIS W.
TONSTALL, DEFSENDANT IN ERROR.

SAL-

In an action against the owner of a stage coach used for carrying passengers, for an injury
sustained by one of the passengers by the upsetting of the coach, the owner is not liable,
unless the injury of which the plaintiff complains was occasioned by the negligence or
want of proper skill or care in the driver of the'carriage, in which he and his wife were
passengers: and the facts that the carriage was upset, and the plaintiff's wife injured, are
prima facie evidence that there was carelessness, or negligence, or want of skill on the
part of the driver; and throws upon the defendant the burden of proving that the accident was not occasioned by the driver's fault.
It being admitted that the carriage was upset and the plaintiff's wife injured, it is incumbent on the defendant to prove that the driver was a person of competent skill, of good
habits, and in every respect qualified, and suitably prepared for the business in which he
was engaged ; and that he acted on this occasion with reasonable-skill, and with the utmost
prudence and caution : and if the disaster in question was cccasioned by the least negligence, or want of skill, or prudence 'on his, part, then the defendant is liable in the action.
If there was no want of proper skill, or care, or caution on the part of the dnver of a stage
coach, and the stage was upset by the act of the plaintiff or his wife, in rashly and improperly springing from it, then the defendant is not liabl6 to an action : but if the want 'of
proper skl or care of the driver placed the passengeis in a state of peril, and they had at
that time a reasopable ground for supposing that the stage would upset, or that the driver
was incapable of managing his horses, the plaintiff is entitled to recover; although the
jury may believe from the position in which the stage was placed by the negligence of
the Afriver, the attempt of the plaintiff or his wife to escape may have increased the peril,
or even caused the stage to upset; and although they may also find that the plaintiff and
his wife would probably have. sustained little or no injury if they had remained in the
stage.
If the driver was st person of competent skill, and in every respect qualified and suitably
prepared for the business ift which he was engaged, and the accident was occasioned by
no fault or want of skill or .care on his part, or that of the defendant or his agents, but
by physical disability s ising from extreme and unusual cold, which rendered him incapable for the time to do his duty; then the owner of the stage is not liable in -an action for
damages, for an iajury sustained by a person who was a passenger.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the district
of Maryland.
The defendant in error, Francis W. Saltonstall, in September, 1836,
instituted an action for the recovery of damages against Richard C.
Stockton and William B. Stokes, owners of a line of stages for carrying passengors from Baltimore to Wheeling; Mr. Saltonstall and
his wife hav'ing on the 6th day of December, 1836, been passengers
in the stage, when, by the carelessness, unskilfulness, and default of the driver, the stagewas upset; by reason of which Mrs.
Saltonstall had her hip fractured, and several other bones of her
body broken, and was otherwise greatly cut, bruised,'and iniured, so
that her life was endangered.
By an agreement between the counsel fbr the plaintiff and the defendant's no objection was to be tiken to the nonjoinder of other
petsons as defendants, who were also owners or interested in the
line of stages, when the injury complained of in the action occurred;
and the plaintiff might recover in this -OtiQxt any danrages which
VOL. XI.1-0

182

SUPREME COURT.
[Stokes m. Saltonstall.]

night be recovered in an action by himself and wife, or by himself
alone.
Richard C. Stockton having died after the institution of the suit, it
was proceeded'in against William B. Stokes, who survived him.
The, cause was tried-before a jury, and a verdict was given for the
plaintiff, under the instructions, of the Court, for seven thousand dol-.
lars. On this verdict the Court gave a judgment for the plaintiff.
The counsel for the defendant tendered a bill of exceptions to the
opinion of the Court; and he afterwards prosecuted this writ of
error.
The bill of exceptions stated, at large, the evidence given on the
trial of the cause.
The evidence of the witnesses for the plaintiff, taken under a commissio. to New Orleans, and examined on the trial, stated, that at
the last change of horses, before the accident, the passengers generay remarked that the driver seemed to have drank too much to
go on. Mr. Saltonstall, the plaintiff, went to the agent, or the person avowing himself as such, and who was acting in that capacity,
and 'eported to him the observation made by the passengers; the
agent replied that the driver was all straight, and that the appearance of his being intoxicated-was entirely owing to his having driven
during the night previous, which had been excessively cold. When the
stage arrived at about two miles from Bevansville, the passengers
felt the stage strike against a mound or ridge on the right side of
the road. Mr. Saltonstall on obser ing this, immediately jumped
out, as was believed, with the intention of stopping the horses; Mrs.
Saltonstall attempted to follow her husband, but fell to the ground
at the very instant the stage upset, and. it fell directly on her. The
upset took place on Sunday afternoon, the 5th day of December, at
about four o'clock in the afternoon. It was broad daylight. The
plaintiff's wife was dreadfully injured; shewas taken up-and carried
to a log-house in the neighbourhood. The irijury was occasioned
by the falling of the stage on her body.
A witness stated that the road was perfectly level, and in good
travelling order. There had been ice, but it had been so beaten
dbwn that there was only a little remaining on the sides of the road.
The- centre was free from it. The road was not considered
dangerous or difficult. The driver was believed to be intoxicated,
and his intoxication was increased by his drinking with a man on
the seat along side of him.. This belief was produced by his reckless
.nd irregular manner of driving, which called for repeated remonstrances from the passengers, and which were wholly unattended to;
and for his pparent stupid and drunken manner of conduct after the
upset. He was totally unfit for any thing; he could not, or would
not answer a question, nor afford the least possible assistance.
The injuries sustained by Mrs. Salstonstall were proved by the
surgeons and medical attendants, and they were such as to make it
impossible, or too dangerous to attempt to move her from the log
hut, from the time of the accident, the sixth day of December4 until

JANUARY TERM, 1B39.

18$

[Stokes w. SaltontaL]

the eighteenth day, of December, when she was carried to Bevans.
ville, where she reruained until the eighteenth day of May following. In. July of the same year, she was in Philadelphia, still in a
state of great suffering, and using crutches.
The plaintiff also, proved, by Mr. Ludlow, who was a passenger
in a stage which arrived after:the accident, that the road was perfectly good, and was one on which a stage would not be likely to
upset. The witness went to the driver, and had some conversation with him. The defendant's counsel objected to.the statements
of the ariver being admitted in evidence; but the Cburt declared
them to be admissible; to which the counsel for the defendant excepted. The plaintiff then further proved by Mr. Ludlow, that he
asked the driver how the accident happened,' when he stated he
had upset fifty coaches, and he did not believe the woman.was as
much hurt as she said she was.
The testimony offered by'the defendant, was intended to show
the capacity and sobriety of the driver, and that the road was icy,
difficult, and dangerous; and that the upsetting of the stage might
be accounted for by the slippery and icy condition of the road. The
evidence fbr the defendants, it was contended, proved that had the
wife of the plaintiff remained in the stage,' no injury would
have resulted to her. the other passengers were not materially
bruised. - The defendant also proved, that the coach and harness
were properly made, and of sufficient strength; and that the horses
were good and steady.
The defendant's counsel prayed the Court to instruct the jury in
sixteen different prayers. 'Among those were the'following:
1. If the jury shall believe from the evidence in the cause, that
the injury to the plaintiff's wife was occasioned solely by the overturning of the coach, and by its falling upon her; and that such
overturning was occasioned by the act of the plaintiff and his-wife,
or either of them, in leaping from, or otherwise in leaving the said
coach; and shall further believe, from the evidence in the cause,
that at the time of such leaping from, or of such leaving said coach,
there did not exist any certain peril, nor any immediate danger of
personal injury, nor any reasonable cause of apprehension of impending danger by remaining in the coach; then the plaintiff is not
entitled to recover upon the issue joined in this case, in respect to
the said injury suitained by his wife; even if they-,also believe
from the evidence in the cause, that the driver was guilty of carelessness, negligence, and misconduct, in placing the coach in the
particular place and situation in which it was at the time of such
leaping from, or leaving the coach.
2. If the jury shall believe from the evidence in the cause, that
the injury. to the plaintiff's wife was occasioned solely by the overturning of the coach, and its falling upon her; and that such overturning was occasioned by the act of the plaintiff and his wife, or
either of them, in leaping from, or otherwise in leaving the coach,

184

SUPREME COURT.
[Stokes vs. Saltonstall.]

and shall further believe from the evidence in the cause, that such
leaping from, or such leaving the coach, was not under the actual
circumstances an act of prudent precaution for the purpose of selfpreservation; nor such an act as a person of ordinary care, pru,
dence, or resol~ition would have adopted, under the actual circumstances, even if they shall believe from the evidence, that such
leaping from, or such leaving said coach, was under the existence
and incitement of actual alarm and apprehension of supposed impending danger; then the plaintiff is not entitled' to recover upon
the issue joined in this cause, in respect of said injnry sustained by
his said wife.
3. If the jury shall believe from the evidence -in, the -cause,
that the injury sustained by the plaintiff's -wife was occasioned
solely by the overturning of the coach, and by its falling upon her;
and that such overturning was occasioned by the act of the plaintiff
and his said wife, or by the act of either of the'i, in leaping from,
or otherwise in leaving said coach; and shall further believe, from
the evidence in the cause, that such leaping from, or leaving of said
coach was not effected with proper caution and prudence, under the
actual circumstances, as well in reference to the situatioi. in which
the said plaintiff and his wife, (if the overturning was occasioned by
the act of both,) were placed ; or, if such overturning was occasioned only by the act of one, in reference to the situation of such
one of thdm, by whom such overturning was occasioned, was
placed; as also in reference to the situation in which said coach
was placed in position, with respect to the ground on which it
stood, and otherwise, then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover, in
respect to said injury to his said wife.
4. If the jury shall believe from the evidence in the cause, that
the injury to the plaintiff's wife was occasioned solely by the
falling of the coach upon her, and that she was then outside of the
coach and on the ground; and shall further believe, that at the time
she leapt from, or left the coach, she knew, or believed, that it was
overturning, or about to overturn, and leapt from, or left it for that
cause, and that she designedly alighted ou the ground in the directio)n in which the coach was overturning, or about to overturn; that
then, su~ch her act was a rash and imprudent act, and the defendant
is not responsible upon the issue joined in this cause for the injury
which she, so sustained; even if the jury shall, at the same time,
believe that such overturning was occasioned by the fault or negligence of the driver.
5. If the jury shall find, from the evidence, that the plaintiff's
-wife, if she had remained in the coach, would not have been materially injured by the overturning of the same; and shall iAid from
all the evidence in the cause, that *adiscreet and prudent person,
under the circumstances in which she was'placed, as disclosed in
evidence, would have, and ought to have, remained in the coach;
and that she placed herself imprudently, and indiscreetly, and rashly

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

185

(Stokes vs. Saltonstall.]

in the way of incurring the actual injury which she sustained, that
then the defendant is not liable, upon the issue joined in this case,
to answer in damages for such injury.
6. If the jury shall believe from the evidence in the cause, that the
plaintiff and his wife, or either of them, by leaping from the coach,
or leaving the same, contributed in fact, to produce the happening
of the injury to the plaintiff's wife, which she actually sustained;
and shall further believe, that in so leaping from, or leaving the
said coach, the same was done unnecessarily and indiscreetly, or
imprudently, or raslly, incautiously, or without ordinary care, that
then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover in respect of said injury:
even if the jury shall believe that the driver was guilty of gross
negligence and misconduct; and was partly, or even mainly, the
cause of the happening of such injury.
16. That the prima facie evidence of negligence arising from the
fact of the upsetting of the coach, and the injury to the plaintiff's
wife, is rebutted by the proof of the fact, if the jury so believe
from the evidence, that the defendants had a first-rate coach, a competent set of horses, and good and proper harness, and a competent,
prudent, and careful driver at the time of the accident; and that
then the buiden of proving negligence is thrown upon the plaintiff.
The plaintiff also offered prayers to the Court for instructions to
the jury.
All the rayers offered by the, defendant and the plaintiff were
rejected by the Court, and the Court instructed the jury :
1. That the defendant is not liable in this action unless the jury
find that the injury of which the plaintiff complains was occasioned
by the negligence or want of proper skill or care in the driver of the
carriage, in which he and his wife were passengers: and the facts
that the carriage was upset, and the plaintiffs wife injured, are
prima facie evidence that there was carelessness, or negligence, or
want of skill, on the part of the driver; and throws upon the defendant the burden of proving that the accident was not occasioned by
the driver's fault.
2. It being admitted that the carriage was upset and the plaintiff's wife injured, it was incumbent on the defendant to prove that
the driver was a person of competent skill, of good habits, and in
every respect qualified and suitably prepared for the'business in
which he was engaged: and that he acted on this occasion with
reasonable skill, and with the utmost prudence and caution; and if
the disaster in question was occasioned by the least negligence, or
want of skill, or prudence on his part, then the defendant is liable
in this action.
3. if the jury find there was no want of proper skill, or care, or
caution on the part of the driver, and that the stage was upset by
the act of the plaintiff or his wife, in rashly and improperly springing from it, then th6 defendant is not liable to this action; but if the
want of proper skill or care of the driver placed the passengers in
a state of peril, and they had at that time a reasonable ground for
Q2

24

SUPREME COURT.
"Stokes . SaltnstaU.]

supposing that the stage would upset, or that the driver was incapapable of managing his horses, the plaintiff is entitled to recover ;
although the jury may believe, from the position in which the stage
was placed by the negligence of the driver, the attempt of the plaintiff or his wife to escape may have increased the peril, or even
caused the stage to upset; and although they may also find that the
plaintiff and his wife would probably have sustained little or no
injury if they had remained in the stage.
• 4. If the jury shall find that the driver was a person
of competent skill, and in every respect qualified and suitably prepared for
the business in which he was engaged, and .that the accident was
occasioned by no fault, or want of skill or care on his part, or that
of the defendant or his agents, but by physical disability, arising
from extreme and unusual cold, which rendered him incapable for
the -time to do his duty; then the defendant is not liable in ,this
action.
The defendant excepted to the refusal of the prayers offered by
hi'n, and to the instructions given by the Court to the Jury.
The case was submitted to the Court, in printed and written
arguments, by Mr. Schley, for the plaintiff in error; and by Mr.
Johnson, for the defendant.
Mr. Schley, for the plaintiff, submitted to the Court the following
points and authorities:
When Mr. Ludlow was under examination, he stated that,
shortly after the accident happened, he went up to the driver and
had some conversation with him. The defendant, by his counsel,
objected to the admission in evidence of the statements of the
driver: the Court overruled the objection, and the defendant excepted. The plaintiff then proved, by Mr. Ludlov, "that he asked
the driver how the accident happened, when he stated that he had
upset fifty coaches, and he did not believe the woman was as much
hurt as she said she was." This conversation, it will be observed,
took place after the accident had occurred. If it can be considered
as the driver's account of the manner in which the accident occurred, it is still but his representation of a past occiiryrenee, and he
ought to have been called as a witness to testify. "But the statements were not even made in reference to his conduct in the particular transaction, but in relation to what he had donton former
occasions; and when, for aught that appears, he was not in the serv'ice of the defendant. If the fact had been established by competent testimony, that this driver bad upset fifty coaches, it would
have been pregnai., evidence, before the jury, of his want of skill
as a driver; and if his statement to Mr. Ludlow was 'admissible
evidence to establish this fact, it tended strongly to prove his want
.of competent skill. The position assumed- by the appellant, is, that
the declaration of the driver to the witness," that he had upset fifty
coaches," was not admissible and competent evidence for any purpose whatever.

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

187

[Stokes vo. Saltonstall.]

The defendant's first 'prayer is based on the hypothesis that the
jury would find, from the evidence, that the immediate and proximate cause of the overturning of the coach was the act of the
plaintiff or his wife, or both, in leaping from or leaving the coach;
and that, at the time of leaping from or leaving said coach, there
did not exist any certain peril, nor any immediate danger, nor any
reasonable apprehension of impending danger by remaining in the
coach.
This prayer was framed with reference to the instruction of Lord
Ellenborough, in Jokies vs. Boyce, 1 Starkie's Rep. 393, 2 English
Com. Law Rep. 482;. and the language of the prayer was adopted
from the language of his Lordship. It concedes that the defendant
is liable for the negligence of the driver. It further concedes that
even if the proximate cause of the injury was the act of the plaintiff or his wife, or both, the defendant was ,,ill liable, if there was
want of skill, or if there was negligence or misconduct on the part
of the driver ; provided that such want of skill, or negligence, or
misconduct of the driver, produced a state of case which placed the
plaintiff and his wife, or either of them, in a situation of certain
peril or, immediate danger, or as was sufficient to create a reasonable apprehension of impending danger. But the prayer assumes
the law to be that, in case the act of the party injured was the
proximate cause of the injury, the defendant is not liable merely
because there was default on the part of his driver, unless that default conduced to produce the injury; that is, unless there was a
natural and reasonable connexion between the default of the driver,
asthe cause, and the injury, as the consequence ; and that natural
and reasonable connexion is assumed to be such as Lord Ellenborough has defined in the case above cited. In Story's Commentaries on the Law of Bailments, 377, the learned commentator, citing
the case from Starkie, says: " And the liability of the coach proprietors will be the same, ilthough the injury to the passenger is
caused. by his own act, as by leaping from the coach, if.there is
real danger, and it arises from the careless conduct of the driver."
The 2d, 3d, 4th, and 5th prayers were all framed with reference
to the language of the instruction in the case of Jones vs. Boyce.
It will be obseived that the several prayers were not intended to
deny, in toto, the plaintiff's right of action; but were limited to the
particular ,injury incurred by the plaintiff's wife, by reason of the
imprudence, carelessness, unreasonable alarm, or rashness of the
plaintiff or his wife, imputed by the hypothesis of each respective
prayer.
On the subject of reasonable apprehension of- impending danger,
some analogy may be found in the chapter "-On Cruelty," in Paynter on Marriage and Divorce; and in the quotations from distinguished writers on the civil law, which will be found in the notes to
that chapter.
The 6th prayer asserts, as a proposition of law, that if the plaintiff or his wife, or either of them, contributed, in fact, to produce

188

SUPREME COURT.
[Stokes vs. SaltonstalL]

the injury, by leaping from the coach unnecessarily or rashly, incautiously or without ordinary care, that then the plaintiff is not entitled
to recover in respect of said injury. The position is, that in case of
mixed fault, the action will not lie; that the law will not speculate
whether the fault of the defendant alone, without the concurrence
of the fault of the plaintiff, would or would not have resulted. in in'ury to the plaintiff; but that it is an answer to the action, in respect
of any injury sustained, if it appears that the plaintiff aided in producing such injury. He must be himself blameless, before he can
impute blame to another.
In cases of collision, it has been frequently so adjudged. Butterfield vs. Forrester, 11 East, 60. Flower vs. Adam, 2 Taunton, 314.
Pluckwell vs. Wilson, 5 Carr. and Payne, 375. Luxford vs. Large,
5 Carr. and Payne, 421. Williams vs. Holland, 6 Carr. and Payne,
23. Turley, vs. Thomas, 8 Carr. and Payne, 104. Woolf vs. Beard,
8 Carr. and Payne, 373. Bridge vs. the Grand Junction Railway
Co., 3 Meeson and Welsby, 244. Vanderplank vs. Miller, Moo. and
M., 169. Harlow vs. Hammiston, 6 Cow. 191. Smith vs. Smith,
2 Pick. 621.

Lane vs. Crumbie, 12 Pick. 177.

Now, this case, it is true, was not a case of collision. But in the
cases cited, the gist of the action was negligence, and so it is in this.
The case of Jones vs. Boyce was a case of a coach proprietor. It
is true that the passenger carrier is bound "for the utmost care and
diligence of very cautious persons." Story's Law of Bailments,
379. But if an injury is produced by the concurrent fault of both
parties, by what legal alchymy can we analyse the result, for the
purpose of discovering how much of the injury was produced by
the fault of the defendant or his agent, and how much by the fault
of the plaintiff; or whether, in fact, the injury would have resulted

at all, but for the fault of the plaintiff? The defendant is liable, in
damages, for the consequences of the driver's negligence or want of
skill; but unless the effect can be apportioned, he may be made
liable for what was really a consequence of the plaintiff's own
fault; and how can it be apportioned? In the case of Hill vs.
Waner, 2 Starkie's Rep. 377, 3 Eng. Com. Law Rep. 390, where
there was negligence in the agents of both parties in taking down
a party wall, it was ruled that "it was not competent to the plaintiff to attach that blame to the defendant which was the common
blame of both."
The 1.6th prayer assumes that it is incumbent on the plaintiff to
prove negligence. It concedes that proof of the facts of the overturning of the coach and the injury are prima facie evidence of negligence, and throws upon the defendant the onus of proving, not that
the accident was not occasioned by the driver's fault, as ruled by the
Court in their final instructions, but that the coachman was a person
of competent skill in his business, that the coach was properly made,
the horses steady, &c.-Story's Law of Bailments, 375, and the cases:
there cited. The injury may have been the result of inevitable accident, arising from the state of the road, or from the physical ina-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

189

[Stokes vs. Saltonstall.]

bility of the driver, caused by extreme and unusual cold; or it may
have been occasioned by the fault of the plaintiff, or by the fault of
the driver, or by mixed fault. The plaintiff, it is insisted, is bound to
prove negligence, however slight, in order to maintain the action.
Now, if the event itself is to be evidence of negligence,itwouldbe right
to vary the -rule, and say that the defendant was bound to prove that
there was no negligence. In the cases cited in the Court below,
the breaking down resulted from some supposed negligence in preparation ; but when it is satisfactorily shown that the driver isa person of competent skill, that the horses and coach, &c., were properly
provided, it is shown that there was no want of due preparation for
the journey. If, ii travelling on a level road, a wheel comes off, or
an-axletree snaps, it is strong prima facie evidence of negligence in
preparation ; but mere proof of.the breaking down, without showing
the proximate cause of the breaking down, (as the coming off of,the
wheel, or the snapping of the axletree,) is not prima facie evidence
of negligence. In our case, the mere overturning is ruled to be
evidence of negligence, but the proximate cause of the overturning
is not established. It was an open question upon the evidence.
Upon this distinction, it is conceived that the instruction is not warranted by the cases; and that the burden of showing "that the accident was not occasioned by the driver's fault," was improperly
thrown upon the defendant; and. that it was at least, rebutted by
the hypothesis assumed in the 16th prayer.-Vide Lane vs. Crombie,
12 Pick. 177, and the cases cited, per curiam.
Mr. Johnson for the defendant.
The exec- tion to the statement of the answer of the driver to Mr.
Ludlow, was made before the evidence was given. The exception
should have pointed out the part of the evidence which was objectionable, and not having done this it must be overruled. This is a
familiar rule. But the evidence was proper. It cannot be denied
that the reckless and heartless declarations of the driver to Mr.
Ludlow, with his other conduct, as proved by other witnesses;
made while Mrs. Saltonstall was suffering the most severe agony,
were proper testimony to go to the jury in aggravation of the damages.
The following propositions are sustained by authorities.
1. For the sufficiency of the stage coach with reference to defects
visible, or not visible, under ordinary examination, the carrier is responsible. 1 Carrington and Payne, 414. Sharp vs. Grey, 9 Bingh.
457.
2. The breaking down, and consequently the upsetting of the

stage coach, unexplained, is prima facie evidence of negligence.
Christie vs. Griggs, 2 Campbell, 79.
3. When there is danger in any particular part of the route, it is
the duty of the driver of the stage to state its full extent to the passengers. Dudley vs. Smith, 1 Campbell, 167.
4. If a passenger is, by the negligence or want I'oskill of the

190

SUPREME COURT.
[Stokes vs, Sfdtotmsl.

driver, or- by the iqsufficiendy, of the carriage, in such a state of peril
as to render an enort to escape from ity an act of prudence, and if in
escaping he is injured, the owner of the stage is responsible. Jones
vs. Boyse, 1 Stark. Rep. 393.
Mr. Justice BARBOUJR delivered thle opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error 'to a judgment of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the fourth circuit, and district of Maryland.
It was an action on th case, brought by the defendant in error,
against the plaintiff in error, and Richard C. Stockton, to recover
damages for an injury sustained by his wife, by the upsetting of a
stage coach in which she Niras a passenger, and of which said Stockton and Stokes were the proprietors. The suit was brought in the
name of Saltonstall alone; but there is in the record an agreement
signed by the counsel of the parties, stipulating, amongst other things,
that the plaintiff might recover in it, any damages which might be
recovered in an action by himself and wife, or by himself alone.
The declaration alleges that the injury complained of, was caused
by the negligence and want of skill of the driver, then in the employment of the said Stockton and Stokes, and engaged in driving
their coach, in which the plaintiff's wife was a passenger at the time
she :reeived the injury. In the progress of the case, Stockton, one
of the defendants, died, and his. death having been suggested upon
the record, the case proceeded against Stokes. He pleaded the Leneral issue of " not guilty," on which issue was joined.
At the trial, the defendant took a bill of exceptions to the ruling
of the Court; from-which it appears, that he asked the Court to give
to the jury sixteen several instructions, and the plaintiff asked of
the Court two instructions; all of which, as well those asked by the
defendant, as by the plaintiff, the Court fefused. But-the Cohirt did
give the jury the four following instructions, to wit:
1. That the defendant is not liable in this action unless the jury
find that the injury of which the plaintiff complains was occasioned
by the negligence or want of proper skill or care in the driyer of the
carriage, in which he and his wife were passengers: and the facts
that the carriage was upset, and the plaintiffTs wife injured, are
prima facie evidence that there was carelessness, or negligence, or
want of skill on the part of the driver, and throws upon the defendant the burden of proving that the accident was not occasioned by
the driver's fault.
2. It being admitted that the carriage was upset, and the plaintiff's wife injured, it is incumbent on the defendant to prove that the
driver was a person of competent skill, of good habits, and in every
respect qualified, and suitably prepared for the business in which he
was engaged; and that he acted on this occasion with reasonable
skill, and with the utmost prudence and caution; and if the disaster
in question was occasioned by the least negligence, or want of
skill, or ,prudence on his part, then the defendant is liable in this
action.

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

191

[Stokes v. Saltonstall.)

3. If the jury find there was no Want of proper..kil, or care, or
caution on the part of the driver, and that the stage was upset by
the act of the plaintiff or his wife, in rashly and improperly springing
from it, then the defendant is not liable to this action: but if the
want of proper skill or care of the driver p acbd the passengers in a
state of peril, and they had at that time a reasonable ground for
supposing that the stage would upset, or that the driver was incapable of managing his horses, the plaintiff is entitled to recover;
although the jury may believe from the position in which the stage
was placed by the negligence of the driver, the attempt of the plaintiff or his wife to escape, may have increased the peril, or even
caused the stage to, upset; and although they may also find that the
plaintiff and his wife would probably have sustained little or no in,jury if they had remained in the stage.
4. If the jury shall find that the driver was a person of competent
skill, and in every respect qualified and suitably prepared for the
business in which he was engaged,- and that the accident was occasioned by no fault or want of skill or care, on his part, or that of the
defendant or his agents, but by physical disability arising from extreme and }lnusual cold, which rendered him'incapable for the time
to do his duty; then the defendant is not liable in this action.
Under thesl instructions, he plaintiff obtained a verdict for seven
thousand one hundred and thirty dollars, for which the Court rendered a judgment in his favour; and from that judgment this writ of
error is taken.
We consider it altogether unnecessary to notice any ot the instructions asked for by the defendant, and which the Court refused to
give, because those which they did give cover the whole ground;
and therefore, it depends upon their correctness whether the judgment is to b&affirmed. or not.
We think that the Court laid down the law correctly in eactr and
all of these instructions. It is certainly a sound principle that a
contract to carry passengers differs from a contract to carry goods.
For the goods, the carrier is answerable, at all events, except the act
of God, &ndthe public enemy. But although he does riot warrant
the safey of the passengers, at all events, yet his undertaking and
liability as to,them;'go to this extent: that he, or his agent, if, as
in this case, he acts by agent, shall Possess competent skill; and that
as far as human care and foresight can go, he will transport them
safely. The principle is in substance thus laid down in the case of
Christie vs. Griggs, 2 Campbell, 79.
So it is also in the case of Aston vs. Heaven, 2 Espinasse's Rep.
533, where it is said, that coach owners are not liable for injuries
happening. to passengers, from accident, or misfortune, where there
has been no negligence, or default in the driver; that the action
stands on the ground of negligence, but that a driver is answerable
for the smallest negligence.
The principle is thus laid down in 2 Kent's Commentaries, 466:
"The pronrietors of a stage coach, do not warrant, the safety qf

192

SUPREME COURT.
1Stokeer vs. Saltonstall.]

passengerg in the character of cornmon carriers; and they are not
responsible for mere accidents to the persons of the passengers, but
,only for the want of due care." What the author understood to be
due ca:re, will .appear from this consideration, that in support of his
proposition, he'refers to the two-cases which we 'nave just cited.
In Story on Bailments, many cases are collected together upon
this 'subject, in pages 376-7, as illustrative- of the principle, which
is by that author laid down in these words: "If he (that is, the
driver) is guilt r of any rashness, negligence, or misconduct, or is
unskilful, or deviates from the acknowledged custom of the road,
the proprietors will be responsible for any injuries resulting from

his actz. Thus, if the driver drives with reins so loose that he cannot govern his horses, the proprietors of the coach will be answerable. So if there is danger in a part of the road, or in a particular
passage, and he omits to give due warning to the passengers. So,
if he takes the wrong side of the road, and an accident happens
from want of proper room. So if, by any incaution, he comes in
collision with another carriage."
To which we will add the further
example: wherever there is rapid driving, which, under the crcumstances of the case, amounts to rashness. In short, says the
author, he must in all cases exercise a sound and reasonable discretion in-travelling on the road, to avoid dangers and difficulties; and
if he omits it, his principals are liable.
The only case which is recollected to have come before this Court
on this subject, is that of Boyce vs. Anderson, 2 Peters, 150. That
was an action brought by the owner of slaves, against the proprietor of a steamboat, on the Mississippi, to recover damages for the
loss of the slaves, alleged to have been caused by the negligence
or mismanagement of the captain and commandant of the boat.
The Court distinguished slaves, being human beings, from goods;
and held, that the doctrine as to the liability of common carriers for
mere goods, did not apply to them, but that in respect of them, the
carrier was liable only for ordinary neglect. The Court seem to have
considered that case as being a sort of intermediate one between
goods and passengers. We think, therefore, that any thing said in
that case, in the reasoning of the Court, nust be confined-in its ap.plication to that case; and does not affect the principle which we
have before laid down. That principle, in our opinion, fully justifies
the first and second instructions given by the Court; except that
part of those instructions which relates to the onus probandi: and
-although we think this portion of the instructions as well founded,
in justice and law, as the other, yet it rests upon a different ground.
The first part has relation to the liability of. the defendant, the
second, to the question, on whom devolves the burden of proof.
If the question were -one of the first impression, we should,
upon the reason and justice of the case, adopt the principle laid
down by the Circuit Court. But although there is no case which
could have th6 weight of aulhority in this Court, we are not without a decision in relation to it The very. poiut was decided in

JANUARY TtRM,,1;3.9.

193

£Stokes ft Saltonstall

2 Camp. 80; where it is said by Mansfield, Chief Justice, that,
he thought the plaintiff had, made a 'prima facie case. by provi, '
his going 9n the coach, thb accident, and the damage 4e,ld sUT_fered.
It is objected,.howevQr, in the printed argument which has been.
laid before u!, that althdngh the facts of the overturning of.the
coach, and the inurey-sustained, are prinia facie evidence of negligence, they did aot throw uppn the defendant the burden of proving
that such overturning and injury were not occasioned bythe driver's
default, but only that the coachman was 'A person of cpnp.etent
skill in his business; that thp, coach was pfoperly made, the tiorsps
steady, &c.
Now, taking that portioti of the first and second instructions
which relates to the burden of proof together, we updorstand them
as substantially amounting to what the objection itself seems o
concede to be a proper ruling, and what we consider to be the law.
For although, in the first, it-is said, that these facts threw upon the
defendant the burden of pToving that -the accident was npt occasioned by the driver's fault; yet, in the second, it is declared, that
it was incumbent-on the defendant, in order to meet the plaintiff s
prima facie case, to. prove that the driver was a person of competent skill, of good habits, and in eveyy respect qualified, and suitably prepared for the business in which he was engaged; and that'
he acted on the occasion with reasonable skill, and with the utmost
prudence and caution.
This affirmative evidence, then, was pointed out by the Court
as the means of proving what was in terms stated in the form of a
negative proposition before, that is, that the accident was not occasioned by the driver's fault. . The third instruction also announces
a principle, which we think stands supported by the soundest reason; and we should, therefore, adopt it as being. correct, if it were
altogethe'r a new question.
But this, too, is in -accordance with the doctrine of Lord Ellenborough, in 1 Starkie's Cases, 493, in which he says, that toenable
the plaintiff to sustain the action it is not necessary that he should
have been- thrown off the coach; it is sufficient if he were placed
by the misconduct of the defendant, in such a situation as obliged
him to adopt the alternative of a dangerous leap, or to remain at
certain peril; if that position was occasioned by the fault of the
defendant, the action may be supported. On the other hand, if the
plaintiff's act resulted from a rash apprehension of danger, which
did not exist, and the injury which he sustained ic to be attributed
to rashness and imprudence, he is not entitled to recover.
The instruction which we are now coflsidering is framed in the
spirit of the principle which we have just stated, and we think it
wholly unexceptionable.
The fourth instruction which was given to the jury was in favour
of the defendant; now plaintiff in error,, and, therefore, need not be
VOL. XIII.-R
25

1.4

SUPREME COURT.
[Stokes vs. SaltonstaUI.]

considered. Upon the whole, we thirfk that there is no error in
the judgment. It is, the4 efore, affirmed with costs.
This cause came on to~be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with
costs and damages at the rate of six'per centum per annum.

