JANUARY TERM. 1839.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANT, VS. MosEs.E. LEVY, APPELt.EE.
A grant by'Governor Coppinger, of fourteen thousand fivp hundred acres of land, in East
Florida, part of thirty thousand acres, granted in consideration of services to the crown
of Spain and the officers of Spain, which had been surveyed by the appointed officer,
confirmed.
The Court refused to allow a survey of land to be made to make up for a deficiency in the
survey of fourteen thousand five hundred acres, in consequence of part of the land included therein being covered with wata, and being marshes. Even if a survey had not
been made under the concession, it would not be competent for the Superior Court of
East Florida, or for the Supreme Court, to designate a new location varyiDg from the
original conbession, as any such variation would. be equivalent to a new grant.

APPEAL from the Superior Court of East Florida.
Moses E. Levy, a citizen of the United States, presented a petition to the judge of the Superior Court of East Florida, on the 18th
day of May, 1829, claiming title to a tract of land containing fourteen thousand five hundred acres, situated in East Florida,being
part of thirty thousand acres originally conceded to Fernando de la
Maza Arredondo, in full property, by Governor Don Jose Coppinger,
on,the 14th day of March, 1817, in consideration of services rendered by him to the government and offiqers of Spain; which fourteen thousand five hundred acres became, by sundry mesne conveyances, .theproperty of the petitioner.
The petition states that. there is at the place designated in the said
concession for the location of the said fourteen thousand five hundred acres of land, a considerable portion of the land covered by
water, and consisting of marshes; which, if included in the survey
of the said land, would.,be "acomplete loss of so much land'as is
covered with water, or as consists of marshes.
. The petitioner avers, that by the concession in this case, he is entitled to fourteen thousand five hundred acres of land, exclusive of
land covered by water and of marshes; and that by the custom,
practice, and usage of the Spanish government in East Florida,
where it happened that at the place designated for the location
of the land granted, there was found to be a part of that which
would necessarily fall within the survey according to the calls of the
grant, covered with water, or consisting of marshes, though included
within the boundaries of the survey, it was excluded from the quantity surveyed for the party; and the whole of land clear of such
water and, marsh, called for by the grant, was surveyed and secured
to the party entitled to the benefit thereof. He therefore prays that
such directions, for the survey of the said fourteen thousand five
hundred acres of land may be given, as he is justly entitled to by
the aforesaid concession and the said usage' practice, and custom of
the Spanish government in East Florida.
The petitioner states that since the purchase of said lands by him,
he has at very great expense and trouble made a settlement on the
lands, at a place thereon called Hope Hill; and that he has erected
11

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States vs. Moses E. Levy.]

houSes and buildings of various descriptions on the land, and has
cultivated a considerable portion thereof, and made other beneficial
imnyrovements thereon.
The answer of the District Attorney of the United States'denies,
unojpg otrier things, that it was the usage and custom in East Flopla:b have the quantity of land covered by water, or such as is
found t~ Pe a marsh, replaced by surveys of other land; and'insists'
'that-the petitioner having procured and accepted a royal grant for
foul nen thousand five hundred reres, made according to tl e sAurvey
unctvr the original concession, he is estopped from settivig tru such
usage or custom, if the same existed.
Tha answer also insists that the Court has no power or authority
to direct a survey of the said fourteen thousand five hundred acres
of laud,-in accordance with any such suppo0ed usage or custom , if
it could be shown that any such usage or custom ever existed
The F&perior Court confirmed the, grant for fourt,, tbnxiiand
five'hliudred acres, according to the survey, and rejetct the'eiaim
to have the quantity of land contained in the grant surveyed, excluding land 'overed with water and marshes.
The United States appealed from this decree:
The case was submitted to the Court, by Mr. Grundy, Attorney
General of the United States.
Mr. Justice WA-riNE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This-is an appeal from the Superior Court of East Florida.
The appellee, after alleging that he, claims title to a certain tract
or parcel of land, containing fourteen thousand five hundied acres,
situated in East Florida, being a. part of a large body consisting of
thirty thousand acres, originally granted in full and absolute property, on the 24th day of Marvh, 1817, to Fernando de la Maza
Arredondo--that he. had purrchased the same after the said fourteen
thousand five hundred acres were located awd surveyed; he further
alleges, that a considerable portion of the land bought by him, is
covered by Water, and consists of marshes, and "that by the custom, practice, and usage of the.Spanish governrpent, in East Florida,
where it happened that at the place 0'esignated for the location
'of the land granted, there was found to be a part of that-Which
would necessarily fall within the survey according to the calls of
the grant, covered with water, or consisting of marshes, though included within 'the boundaries of the survey, it was excluded from
thequantity surveyed for the party; and the whole of land clear of
such -water ond marsh, called for by the grant, was surveyed and
secured to the party entitled to the benefit thereof." He then
prays that such directions for the survey of the said 14,500 acres of
land may he given by the, Court, as he is entitled to, by the aforesaid concession, and the said usage, practice, and custom of the
Spaish government , in East Florida. Andl he concludes his 'petitioni with a prayer, that the validity of his title to the aforesaid tract
of land, may be in'quired-into and decided by the Court.

JAN'UARY TERM, 1839.

83

[The United States vs.Moses E. Levy.]

The Court decides his claim to be good to the 14,500 acres, according to its survey, designating particularly the identity of the land
by reference to the survey of Don Andrew Burgeon, who waa the
surveyor appointed to survey the; oncession to Arredondo, and it

decrees, that the prayer of appellee, to have the said fourteen thousand five hundred acres of land surveyed to him, excluding laud
covered with water and marshes-be rejected.
This Court affirms the decree of the Court below. It thinks thai
the -laimant failed to establish Dy..any evidence in the cause,. the
existence of any such custom or practice in the government of East
Florida, in regard to land covered by water, and coioisting of
marshes; and if such a custom or practice can be proved -o exist,
it cannot be applied to any concession carried into an actual grant
according to a survey made and returned by the officer, or person
appointed to make such survey. Such are the facts in this ,case.
The survey was made by Burgeon, the governor having appointed
and qualified him for the purpose ; and the grant is made bv a recital of Burgeon's survey. It is this survey also, which the"Court
below decrees in favour of the claimant, and which it is to be particularly understood this Court affirms. But' this Court thinks it necessary to say further, in affirming the decree of the Court below ;
rejecting the claim of the petitioner to have fourteen thousand five
hundred acres of land surveyed to him, excluding land covered
with water and marshes; that even though the survey had not been
made, it would not be competent to the Court below, or to this
Court, to designate a new location, varying from the original concession, as any such alteration on a concession would be equivalent
to a new grant. See the case of the United States vs. Huertap,
9 Peters, 171.
The acts of Congress by which these cases are subjected to judicial investigation and judgment, give no such power to the Courts.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of -th record
from the Superior Court for the district of East Florida, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is adjudged and
decreed by this Court, that the decree of the said Superior Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, in all respects, affirmed,

