SUPREME COURT.

WILLIAM MELMOYLE, FOR THE USE OF ISAAC S. BAILEY, VS. JOHN
J. COHEN, ADMINISTRATOR OF LEVY FLORENCE.
Although a judgment in the Court of a state is not to be regarded in the Courts of her sister
states as a foreign judgment, or as merely prima facie evidence of a debt to sustain
an action of debt upon the judgment, it is to be considered only distinguishable from a
foreign judgment in this; that by the first section of the fourth article of the Constitution, and by the act of May 26, 1790, sect. 1, the judgment is conclusive on the merits,
to which full taith and credit shall be given when authenticated as the act of Congress
has prescribed.
When the Constitution declares that full faitl and credit shall be given in each state to
the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings of every other state, and provides that
Congress may by general laws prescribe the manner in which such acts, records, and
proceedings shall be proved', and the effect thereof, the latter clause, as it relates to judg.
ments, was intended to provide the means of giving to them the conclusiveness of judgments upon the merits, when it is sought to carry them into judgments by suits in
the tribunals of another state. The authenticity of the judgment, and its effect, depend
upon the law made in pursuance of the Constitution; the faith and credit due to it
as the judicial proceeding of a state is given by the Constitution, independently of all
legislation.
By the law of' Congress of May 26, 1790, the judgment is made a debt of record, not
examinable upon its merits; but it does not carry with it into another state, the efficacy
of the judgment upon property, or upon persons to be enforced by execution
To give
it the force of a judgment in another state, it must be made a judgment there; and can
only be executed in the latter as its laws may permit.
rhe plea of the statute of limitations, in an action instituted in'one state on a judgment
obtained in another state, is a plea to the remedy; and consequently, the lex fbri must
prevail in such a suit.
Prescription is a, thing of policy growing out of the experience of its necessity ; and the
time after which suits or actions shall be barred, has been from a remote antiquity fixed
by every nation, in virtue of that soiereignty by which it exercises its legislation for all
persons and property within its jurisdiction.
There is no constitutional inhibition on the sttes, nor any clause in ihe Constitution from
which it can be even plausibly inferred that the states may not legislate upon the remedy
on suits on the judgments of other states, exclusive of all interference with their merits.
A suit in a state of the United States, on a judgment obtained in the courts of another state,
must be brought within the period prescribed by the local law, the lex fori, or the suit
*will lt barred. The statutq of limitations of Georgia can be pleaded to an action in that
"state, founded upon a judgment rendered in the state Court of the state of South
Carolina.
Ift the payment of the debts of a testator, or intestate in Georgia, the judgment 'of another
state, whatever may have been the subject matter of the suit, cannot be put upon'thr
footing of judgments rendered in the state; and it can only rank as a simple contract
debt in the appropriation of the assets of the estate of a deceased person to the payment of debts.

ON a certificate of division between the judges of the sixth Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Georgia.
William .M'Elmoyle, a citizen of the state of South Carolina,
suing for the use of Isaac S. Bailey, also a citizen of that state,
presented a petition in 1835 to the Circuit Court of the United
States, for the district of Georgia, stating that Levy Florence had
died intestate; and having before his death resided in the state of
South Carolina, he had obtained a judgmtent against him in the
Couirt of Common Pleas for the city of Charleston, for $968 -7, on
a promissory note, on the 16th day of February, 1822, which re-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

313

[M'Elmoyle vs. Cohen.]

mains-unsatisfied; an exemplification of which judgment in due
form was exhibited to the Court with the petition.
The defendant, a citizen of Georgia, to which state Levy Florence removed after seven years from the rendition of the judgment,
and in which state he resided at the time of his death, pleaded the
statute of limitation of the state of Georgia; which the plea alleges
limits such actions to five years from the cause of action: and he
afterwards pleaded that there is no statute of the state of South
Carolina which limits suits upon judgments therein to any paticular
time, nor is there any statute of limitations in that state applicable
to judgments, but that a statute was passed by the legislature of
Georgia, on the 7th day of December, 1805, which provides and
declares that all actions of debt on judgment obtained in Courts other
than the Courts of Georgia,shall be cormence&and prosecutedwithin
five years from the rendition of such judgments, and not afterwards;
and that for seven years after the rendition of the judgment on
which the suit is brought, Levy Florence was a resident and citizen
of the state of Georgia, and no suit on the judgment was cornmenced against him, nor for two years after the defendant, John J.
Cohen, had been the duly qualified administrator of the said Levy
Florence. the defendant for further plea states that he has not funds
of the estate of Levy Florence sufficient to pay the whole of the
udgment, and to pay the otherdebts claimed as due from the estate.
Upon the trial of the cause the following questions occurred,
upon whicoi the opinions of the judges were opposed; and the same
were certified to the Supreme Court.
1st. Whether the statute of limitations of Georgia can be pleaded
to an action in that state, founded upon a judgment rendered in the
state of South Carolina?
2d. Whether in the administration of assets in Georgia, a judgment rendered in South Carolina, upon a promissory note, against
the intestate when in life, should'be paid in preference to simple
contract debts?
The case-was submitted to the Court on printed arguments by

Mr. Longstreet for the plaintiff; and by Mr. King for the defendant.
Mr. Longstreet, for the plaintiff.
Two questions are raised in this case:
1. Can the statute of limitations of Georgia be pleaded to an,
action founded on a judgment in South Carolina?
2. If it cannt be, is that judgment a debt of higher dignity, in
the administration of assets in Georgia, than a simple contract
debt ?
Both' questions seem to have been virtually decided by the Supreme Court of the United States.
The first was certainly settled by te case of Mills vs. Duryee, 7
Cranch, 481. It was there ruled that no plea could be urged
against a judgment from a state Court, duly authenticated, but the
VOL. XIII.-2 D
40

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Elmoyle vs. Cohen.]

plea of nul teil record. If this be true, it is but changing the terms
of the same proposition to say that the statute of limitations Fannot
be pleaded to an action founded upon such a judgment. The question there was, as it is here, a question of pleading. Mr. Justice
Story, in delivering the opinion of the Court in that case, says,
"Congress have declared the effect of the record, by declaring what
faith and credit shall be given to it. It remains only, then, to inquire, in every case, what is the effect of a judgment in the state
where it is rendered? Let us make the inquiry, and the answ.er
will be found in the concessions of the parties, that the effect of this
judgment, in South Carolina, would be to silence the plea of the
statute of limitations.
The doctrine of Mills vs,. Duryee was aiterwards confirmed by
Hampton vs. M'Connel, 3 Wheat. 234. Mr. Chief Justice Marshall
there says, "The judgment of a state Court should have the same
credit, validity, and effect, in every other Court of the United Sthtes,
which it had in the state where it was pronounced; and whatever
pleas would be good to a suit thereon, in such state, and none
others, could be pleaded in any other. Court in the United States."
Accordingly it was again decided that nil debet could not be pleaded
to the suit then in question.
IThe same decision had been long befbre made in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Pennsylvania, Armstrong v. Carson's executor's, 2 Dall. 302 ; and it has beei repeated
by the judges of the highest Courts in each of the several states.
In Mortcn and Co. vs. Naylor, 1 Hill's South Carolina Rep. 439,
the very question now before the Court was adjudicated. It was
ruled in that case, that the statute of limitations of South Carolina
was not a good plea to an action upon a judgment from a sister
state. It cannot be necessary to multiply authorities upon this
head.
What, then, is the doctrine of these cases ? It is; that the judgment of a state Court carries with it into every state all its original
attributes, energies,, and incidents ; that it goes forth armed with th6
powers of the Court that pronounced it, and clothed with the author-,
ity of the laws under which it was pronounced; that it is at home
whithersoever it goes, through the whole length and breadth of the
Union; that, in relation to judicial proceedings, the states are not
foreign to each other. Less than this cannot be extracted from the
fourth article, first section, of the Constitution, and the .act of Congress, made in pursuance of it. By that article, the states reciprocally pledged themselves to each other, that they would ,repose
implicit faith in the records of every state; that they would accreditthem, receive them, admit them, acknow;edg them to be true.
There is hardly a Court in the Union (it is believed not one) that
has as high authority as this, for pronouncing its own judgments
conclusive. The states have generally contented themselves with
organizing their several departments of government, allotting to
each its respective powers, and leaving, the consequences of. this

JANIARY TERM, 1839.

315

[M'Elraoyle vs. Cohen.]

allotraent to the deductions of common sense or common law. Thus,
to ascertain the force and effect of a judgment of a state Court,
within the limits of that state, we appeal to the common law; and
there we find that such a judgment imports absolute verity.- But,
in order to ascertain the force and effect of judgment of one state
when carried into another, we appeal to the lex scripta-the paramount law ; and there we learn that it is entitled to" full faith and
credit." Are these terms less comprehensive or, less impressive
than "absolute verity?" Proceed they from a fountain less sacred?
Is it possible, then, to urge any thing against such judgments, wrhich
will not apply with equal force to all judgments?
The letter of the Constitution is not n*re pointed to the purpose
of this argument, than the reason and spirit of it. The framers of
that instrument foresaw that there would be a perpetual change
and interchange of citizens between the several states. They had
confederated a number of bodies politic; they had secured-to each
a similar form of government; they had placed over all, in some
respects, a controlling, and, in all respects, a protecting power.
They, had, therefore, sundered some of the strongest ties that bind
man to his native land, and left him free to choose a climate congenial to his constitution, and an occupation suited to his taste or
habits, without forfeiting the protection of his Own laws. To have.
incorporated no provision in the Constitution which would prevent
men, thus circumstanced, from eluding the operation of a judgment,
by a simple change of residence, would have argued a blindness in
the sages who framed that instrument, that might be better imputed
to any other body of men that ever lived. And if they have done
no more than authorize suits to be instituted upon the judgments in
question, subject to all defences that might have been setup to the
original action, the fourth article and first section of the Constitution
is but a deathless memorial of their folly; for all this might have
been done, and would have been done, from a principle of comity
between the states, without any law to that effect. It is done by
all civilized nations. If they have only authorized suits to be instituted upon such judgments, leaving it with the states to regulate the
defences to such suits, they have done no more, in effect, than to
declare that suits may be prosecuted in the several states, if the
states choose to permit them to be prosecuted. Very different the
conduct of those profound statesmen. They declared that "full
faith and credit should be given in each state to the records, &c. of
every state." To obviate all difficulties, the Constitution proceeds:
"And Congress may, by general laws, prescribe the manner in
which such acts, records, and proceedings shall be proved, and the
effect thereof." This makes perfect the law upon this subject. Now,
no one can withhold from the judgment of a state Court unlimited
credence, without violating the Constitution; no one can resist its
operation, without becoming instantaneously impotent. All must
give the judgment a helping hand, to*the accomplishment of its ends;
and those who will not, 'immediately lose all power over it, and

316

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Elmoyle v8. Cohen.]

hither it comes, to more impartial guardians. There can be no impairing its force by embarrassing restrictions and limitations; no
overriding it by state legislation; no degrading it by lowering its
dignity, or elevatingz the character of conflicting claims. It continues unchangeably the same, until it is satisfied. It is, therefore,
just as secure as human power could make it; and it is wonderfUl that
human wisdom could have provided for it suchadmirable safeguards.
But it is said that the states mty prescribe the time within which
their own judgments shall be enforced; and surely they may do as
much in relation to the judgments of another state. And to this,
Gulick vs. Lodger, 1 Green's Rep. 70, and Jones vs. Hook's administrator, 2 Randolph's Rep. 303, are cited.
A glance at these cases will satisfy the Court that neither of them
called for a serious consideration of the point in question. The plea
in both was obviously unsustainable in point of fact; and consequently it became unnecessary to bestow upon it grave deliberation.
It is true, that the judges in both say, that the statute of the state in
which the suit is instituted must control the plea; and it is also true
that the- suits in those cases were both upon judgments: but the
manner in which the point in question was disposed of, and the au..
thorities cited to it, show that the Courts had given it no reflection.
To reason from the power of a state over the judgments of its
own Courts, to its power over the judgments of a sister state, is just
as unsafe as it would be to reason from the power of a state over
its own citizens, to its power over foreign ministers; from its power
of taxation, to its power of laying tonnage duties; from its power
of contracting, to its power of making treaties; In short, it is reasoning.from a retained to a renounced power. States may do what
they please with their own judgments, simply because they have retaixied the right to do so. They cnnot do the same thing with judgment of the sister states, because they have relinquished the right to
do so. How is it possible to reconcile the power of imposing terms
and restrictions upon these judgments by the states, with the power
gpiven to and exercised by Congress of determining their force and
effect in every statd? They are absolutely incompatible.
Let us take an analogous case, in which we will not be so apt to
be misled by old and familiar rules of pleading. Congress has
.power to establish uniform bankrupt laws. This power is very
analogous to that conferred on Congress by the fourth article, first
section, of the Constitution. The one was given for the protection
of the debtpr, the other for the protection of the creditor ; the one
to establish a uniform rule for the recovery of demands, the other to
establish a uniform rule for resisting demands ; and both, for having
a general law that all could know and understand. If Congress
should exercise its power of regulating bankruptcies, the analogy
would be still more striking; for it would certainly place the debtor
under the protection of some judgment or decision of a Court or of
commissioners, the record of which would be made evidence everywhere. Now, suppose this to be done, would it be competent for

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

317

[M'Elmoyle vs. Oohen.]

the legislatures of the several states to place the bankrupt under
terms, in pleading his discharge?
To this question we have the answer of this Court. It was for a
long time doubted whether the mere grant to Congress of the power
to make bankrupt laws did not exclude the states from the exercise
of any power over' the same subject. In the case of Green and
Sarmiento, 3 Wash. C. C. R., Judge Washington decided that it did.
In the cases of Sturges and Crowningshield, 4 Wheat., and Ogden
and Saunders, 12 Wheat., this Court decided that it did not; but
with more dissenting voices than are to be found to any decision
ever made by this Court, the number of judges considered. But in
the first case the counsel on both sides admitted, and in the last two
all the judges either took it for granted or expressly'declared, that
if Congress had legislated upon the subject, there would have been
an end to all state legislation upon it. It is asked, where is the difference in principle between that case and this?
But it is said that the plea in this case opposes nothing to the record. It admits the original validity of the judgment, but says that
by presumption of law it has been satisfied.
All this, the plea of nil debet admitted in Mills vs. Duryee. The
defendant did not deny that a'judgment had been obtained; that it
had been fairly obtained ; and that it had liever been satisfied: but
he contended that it had lost its force by his change of residence, as
it is said this has, by lapse of time. But this Court overruled the
plea.
-By"presumption of" what "law" is the judgment satisfied ?
The law of Georgia. But where does Georgia get the authority to
pass a law that shall in any manner affect a judgment of South
Carolina? She confided this authority to Congress ; and Congress
has said that the law of Sokith Carolina shall govern it everywhere.
It is idle, therefore, to argue from the harmony of two laws, one of
which can have no operation, whether good or bad.
Again, it is answered, that the argument would make it the duty
of the Courts of Georgia to issue execution upon the judgments of
South Carolina; would give them a lien upon property in Georgia z
and would require adminfistrators to distribute intestates' effects,
according to the laws of South Carolina.
As to the first branch of the objection, it has been answered by
this Court in Mills vs. Duryee.
As to the second: a judgment which binds property in South Carolina, ought to bind it everywhere. t is thought the law of Congress goes thus far. Why do mortgages made in one state, bind property in another ? Because the lex loci governs the contract, and
the states cannot impair the obligation of contracts. Why should
judgments bind property in like manner? Because the lex loci
(under the act of Congress) governs judgments, and the States cannot impair their force.
As to the third: the argument leads to no such conclusion. Giving
2D 2

sR

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Elmoyle v8. Cohen.]

to the judgment the same force and effeet which it would have in
South Carolina, does not involve the consequence that the statute of
distributions oi that 9tate must be executed in Georgia, for several
reasons. 1. That statute could operate only on effects of a deceased
F erson ; and Florence was in life while he r~mained in South Carolna. It could apply only to the effects of one who died in South
Carolina. It could operate only upon the administrator appointed
in that state. 2. The judgment could claim'no priority in the order
of payment bi Florence's administrator, because Florence was not
dead when the judgment w4s obtained. 3. The order of distribution isnot an effect of the judgment, but is the result of an independent provision of law; which might, or might not, benefit the
judgment creditor upon the contingency of the debtor's dying before
theItjudgment
was satisfied.
is not disputed
that, as a general rule, the validity of pleas is
to be determined by the law of the place where the suit is brought,
and not by the law of the place where the action originated, But
in this instance, the state of Georgia has suri;end6red her right to
ontrol the pleadings to Congress, who have forbidden the plea here
urged. The law of Congress is, therefore, the law of the place
where the suit is instituted.
If all the Courts of the United States are bound to consider a
judgment in one state as conclusive in every other; if before all
Courts of justice in the Union such a judgment is a domestic judgment, and nothing will be heard against it which goes to divest it
of that character ; surely an executor or administrator will not be
permited to degrade it. The cases referred to have been generally considered as putting judgments in one, state upon a footing
with judgments in every other; -as transforming them, in ,other
words, into domutic judgments. 3 Story',s Com. 509. Story's
Confl. Laws, 509. Clarke's Administrator vs. Day, 'Leigh, 172.
Wyman vs. Mitchel, 1 Cow. R. 319. Are they domestic judgments
for one'purpose, and not for another? Domestid judgments in Court,
and
judgments out of Court?
Inforeign
England,
debts take rank in the course of admii.-stration, according to the character which the Courts of justice give them.
Thus, in Walker vs. Wilter, 1 Doug. 1, and Dupleix vs. Dekrovin,
2 Vern. 540, it was determined that foreign judgments were merely
simple contract debts. Accordingly, Williams cites these authorities to show that they are to be so considered in the course of administration. 2 Williams' Ex. 658. The Supreme Court have decided that a judgment in one state, is to be considered as domestic
juidgment in eyery other. May not this authority be appealed to, to
show what is its rank in the order of administration ?
Had the Legislature of Georgia expressly declared that judgments
in the sister states should, to all intents and purposes, be considered
as domestic judgments, there can be no doubt that they would then
be admitted upon a parity with domestic judgments in the distribution of assets. But Georgia has confided to Congress the power of

JANUARY TERM, 1830.

319

iM'Elmoyle vs. Cohen.]

making this declaration, and Congress has made it. Must not the
-consequences be the same ?
By the laws of Georgia, debts of a deceased person are to be paid
in the following order: debts due by him as executor, administrator
or guardian, Price Dig. p. 161, sec. 5; funeral expenses, and other expenses of last sickness, ibid. 157; charges of probate, or letters of
administration; judgments, mortgages, and executions, the eldest
first; rent, bonds, and other obligations; and lastly, open, accounts.
Promissory notes are not mentioned in these acts ; but the act of
1799, Prince, 211, declares that "all bonds and other specialties and
promissory notes, and other liquidated demands, &c., whether for
money or other thing, shall be of equal dignity, and shall be nego-"
tiable by endorsement," &c. The judges of the state of Georgia
have held, withcut a dissenting voice, it is believed, that this act places
promissory notes on a footing with bonds and other specialities, in
the order of distribution. The term "equal dignity' could not be
satisfied without such a decision.
Now, the record in this case shows, and the case stated shows,
that the judgment here sued on was, founded on a promissory note.
Were the note here then alone it would be considered a debt by
speciality. And can it be possible that it is degraded by being carried into jitdgment ? If the judgment be considered only a simple
contract d,6ebt, this follows as a necessary consequence.
The note, as has been often ruled, has been extinguished'by the
judgment. It wpuld be a good defence to a suit upon it, that a
judgment has been rendered upon it in South Carolina. Hughes
vs. Blake, 1 Mason, 515. Green vs. Sarmiento, 3 Wash. C. C. R.
17. 1 Pet. C. C. R. 74. Field vs. Gibbs et al. 1 Pet. C. C. R. 155.
Denison vs. "Iyde, 6 Conn. R. 508. These decisions presuppose the
judgment to be of higher dignity than the note; but if, as is contended, the judgment actually degrades the note, the position of the
plaintiff is peculiarly unfortunate. His note is placed forever beyond
his reach, and his dignified judgment is worthless.
In Toller's Law of Executors, 4th American edition, with notes.
by Ingraham, p. 262, there is a note of a case in point, to this question, though no reference can be made to the book that contains it;
indeed, it seems doubtful from the note to the case, whether it has
ever been reported. There it was held that judgments of' a sister
state stand upon a footing with judgments in Pennsylvania, in the
course of administration. In Andrews vs. Montgomery, 19 Johns. R.
162, it was ruled that assumpsit would not lie in one state upon a
judgment in another, because such a judgment is not a simple contract debt, but a debt of record. Here the question is settled in
terms, but not more effectually in principle, than by the decisions
of the Supreme Court already cited.
• It can hardly be considered as settled, even in England, that a foreign judgment is not conclusive between the parties to it and privies.
Martin vs. Nichols, 3 Simons, 45:3., 5 Cond. Eng. Ch. Rep. 198, and
note to that case; Story's Confl. Laws, 506.

320

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Elmolye vs. Cohen.)

To have one rule of pleading for citizens of Georgia, and another
for citizens of other states ; to give creditors of the state an advantage over creditors of another state in the distribution of assets, is to
violate the second section of the 4th article-io the Constitution, which
declares that "the citizens of each state shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several states."
""The intention of'this clause was to confer on the citizens of each
state a general citizenship; and to communicate all the privileges and
immunities which the citizens of the same state would be entitled to
under like circumstances." ,3 Story's Com. 675.
Mr. King for the defendant:
The plaintiff's counsel evidently mistakes the force and application of the authorities upon which he relies. The case of Mills vs.
Duryee, 7 Cranch, 481, decided nothing but a question of pleading,
which depended on the "faith and credit" to be attached to the
judgment, as evidence. Nil debet was a bad plea, because it contradicted the record, against which nothing could be averred. The
defendant did owe, unless he could avoid the debt by some special
plea perfectly consistent with the original debt. The plea of limitation, admits the truth of the record. The case of Hampton vs.
McConnel, 3 Wheaton, 334, is only a short confirmation of the
principle of the case cited. Though the language of the judge is
more general, he clearly intended to decide nothing but the case
before him, which was precisely similar to Mills vs. Duryee, and
involved no other question but the "faith and credit" due to the
judgment as evidence, which decided the validity of the plea.
The case in 2 Dallas is a similar case; and though the authority
of all these cases, and others to the same point, is fully admitted, yet
their application to this case is denied. We propose to make no
issue with the plaintiff that would falsify his record. We give to
that all the faith and credit to which it is entitled in the Courts of
Carolina. We give to it the dignity of the highest record proof. The plaintiff would have a right to insist on the same favour for
his record, if barred by limitation laws in both states.
The case most in point, cited by the plaintiff, is the case of Morton
& Co. vs. Naylor, in I Hill's South Carolina Reports, 439. This is
the only case of the kind to be found; and its authority is much
weakened from the fact that the point decided (so far as authority
in this case) was not necessarily before the Court. The only question there was as to the character of the debt: on that depended the
application of the statute of limitations of South Carolina to it. In
giving it its proper dignity, it was decided that there was no statute
of limitations of South Carolina which, in terms, applied to it. The
decision was right in its results, but too general in its reasoning on
points not necessarily embraced in it. The judge says, "it would
seem that, when authenticated, a recovery in another state should
be regarded, for all purposes of evidence, as if the case were trying
in the Court where the judgment was recovered." But when the

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

321

[M'Ehlmoyle vs. Cohen.)

judge, from-such premises, came to the conclusion that no defence
or plea could be insisted on, which would not have been good in
the state where the judgment was rendered, he contradicted the decision in 4 M'Cord, 278, to which he referred, with approbation ;
a great variety of de. pns on the subject of lien, distribution,
judgments of discharge under local insolvent laws; and, in fact,
overturned the fundamental principles governing the application of
the lex fori, not only recognised by this Court, but in the tribunals
of nearly or quite all the states of the Union. It is a singular fact,
that after this broad position laid down by the judge, he does not
dissent from the decision in 4 M'Cord; which, in the distribution
of assets, places such judgments on a footing with simple contract
debts. If, after a distribution on such principles, the defendant were
to plead plene administravit to an action on the judgment, would the
only questi6ri be whether such a plea would be good: in the 'Courts
of the state where the judgment was rendered? It would be a
waste of time to point out, by references and illustrations, wherein
the broad position, unnecessarily assumed in this case, is incon-o
sistent with established principles and adjudged cases. Judge Harper, in concurring, showed his usual sagacity in saying, "I concur
in the result."
Under the judiciary act of 1789, the acts of limitations of the several states form a rule of decision in this Court, (3
Peters, 277;) and the statute of limitations is';
clearly a, law of the
forum. Ibid., and Story's Conflict of Laws';, 68, and 482, &c.
In the case of the Bank of the United States vs. Donnelly, 8
Peters, 372, the Court says: "Remedies are to be governed by the
laws of the country where the suit is'brought."
"The nature, validity, &c., of the contract may be admitted to
be the same in both states; but the mode by which the remedy is to
be pursued, and the time Within which to be brought, may essentially differ."
"The laws of Virginia must govern the limitation of suits in its
own Courts."
The same principle is established and enf6rced-with much clearness by the Court, in 2 Massachusetts Reports, 84, and 17 Mass.
Rep. 55; where it is shown that the encroachment upon the lex
fori insisted on, is altogether inconsistent with the necessity and convenience of every state, in controlling remedies in its own Courts.
It is there decided, that though the statute of limitations of New
York, where the parties resided, and where the debt was contracted,
had barred the remedy, yet, when resort was made to the Courts of
Massachusetts, the statutes of the latter state govern the. remedy.
Here the remedy is enlarged by a change; in other cases it may
be ontracted: but no other principle :can be admitted, "otherwise
great confusion and irregularity Woald be 'introduced in judicial
proceedings," as properly remarked by Mr. Chief Justice Parker,
in 13 Massachusetts Reports, 4.
It was never the intention, nor, fairly interpreted, is it thb effect
of the Constitution materially to .interfete with the essential attri41

322

SUPREME COURT.
[M'flmoyie w. Cohen.]

butes o the lex fori, so necessary to the administration of justice
in every state.
By one clause, no raw can be passed impairing the obligation of
contracts; yet, if the validity of the contract be recognised according
to a fair 'interpretation of it, the good faith intended to be enforced
by this clause is secured; and an act:of limitation'of the state where
the antion is brought governs the remedy, though in that state the
obligation, in one sense; may be much impaired by it; so -the benefits of the clause securing full faith and credit in each state, to the
iecords olf every other state, are 'fully enforced, when we 'admit
them'as incontrovertibly true, or allow them-to sustain, all the averments proved by them in the Courts where obtained. This may be
done without infringing upon the right of every state to regulate
thi. remedy by any limitations, not inconsistent with this deference
for the record of a sister state.
There can be no differelice whatever in the application of the lex
fori to aqtions brought on judgments, and actions brought on any
other demand, except upon 'lie mere question of'proof. The record
'proves itself, instead of requiring other aids'to verify it; but, when
thus established, te state in which a remedy is. pursued on it, is released from all further constitutional obligationto respect it, and the
lex fori fully applies. toq it. Accordingly, in Gulick vs. Lodges, 1
Green's Reports, 70, ii an action upon a judgment obtained in
Pennsylvania, Justice Ewing says: "We need make no inquiry into
the Srules for the limitation of actions in the state of Pennsylvania,
where this judgmeft was obtained, since remedies are to be pursuedi' &c. Yet-this judge sustained throughout the decisions cited
by the plaintiff's counsel, that the judgment was conclusive of
every thing verified by it.
In the daso 'of Jones'vs. Hook's administrator, 2 Randolph Rep.
303, the Court of appeals of Virginia held, that, in "action of debt
on a judgment obtained in North Carolina,. the statute of limitations in'North Carolina was nb bar; but that the act of limitation of
Virginia, if applicable, governed the 'remedy. The case receives
.additional weight'by being cited with approbation by the Court in
the case of The United'States Bank vs. Donnelly, above cited.
' It cannot be necessary to pursue this branch of the subject. The
doctrines of the plaintiff's counsel, would truly introduce "confusion
and irregularity into judicial proceedings," altogether intolerable;
and force upon the state Courts as many different measures of justice as there are states in the Union. No representative of an e~tate
could-ever safely settle an estate and obtain letters dismissory. The
'state law limiting the time within which all claims shopld lie presented, would amount to nothing; unless there should be a similar
law applicable to said judgments in other states, which woufd justify a similar protection against'the judgment in the Courts in the
states where the judgment was obtained. To the authorities before
cited; the decision of Judge Holt, judge of the Superior Court for
the Middle Circuit of Georgia, on this vety claim, sustaining the d6-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

323

fM'Elmoyle vs. Cohen.1

fendant fully on both pleas. will only be added. The record copy
of this decision, provided-far this Court, has become mislaid.
Confidence in the first plea will. induce but. limited attention to
the second. If the plea be good, there is an end of the case. If
the plea -be bad, the principle which condemns it would send the
plaintiff to Carolina for his law of priority;, for no' plea upon the
laws of priority in the state of Georgia would be good, "unless a
similar plea could be pleaded in Carolins." The absurdity of such
a proposition needs no comment. "The right of priority is extrinsic, and rather a personal privilege, dependent on the law of the
place where the property lies, and where the Court sits which is to
decide the tause." Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, 5 Cr. 289. The
plaintiff's counsel seems sensible of this, and therefore repudiates
the laws of Georgia in the one case, but adopts them in the other;
though both are equally leges fori.
The authorities cited by plaintiff's counsel on the second plea, are
not applicable. If the debt were not barred, it should claim under
the laws of Georgia; and the question is, what rank it would hold.
Does it rank as a domestic judgment?
The Courts of Georgia
have uniformly held not; and so did the Circuit Court, as will be
seen from the statement of Judge Cuyler. The same decision has
been made in South Carolina, Cameron vs Murtz, 4 M'Cord Rep,
278. The plaintiff's counsel says this decision is inconsistent with
the cases in 7 Cranch and-3 Wheaton. Judge Noti did not think
so; for he expressly recognises those decisions. He also says that
the decision in, Carolina would now be different, as it is virtually
overruled by the case of Morton and Naylor. Judge O'Neale did
not think so, for he seems to agree with it; and says, "that case does
-not touch the question to be decided in this :" and seems to think it
also consistent with the decisions in 7 Cranch and 3 Wheaton.
The plaintiff's counsel, then, in sustaining himself on the, second
plea, has to discredit the only authority that sustains him on the
first.
if, in the marshalling of assets and payment of. debts in Georgia,
under the ,laws of that state, this claim rank -as a domestic judgment,-it must be on the principle of lien, and would claim priority
,according to age. Thus, a demand discredited by the strongest presumptions, not upon the records of- the stateI and of which the people of the state could have no notice, would take precedence of
judgments and mortgages recovered and recorded according to its
own laws.
The Constitution never imposed such absurdity and injustice upon
the states. The most that can be, possibly, claimed'for a judgment
not barred under the laws of .Georgia,js to rank it as a "liquidated
demand1" that will require no other proof than an authentication
under the act of Congress.
'The second section of the fourth article of the Constitution has
no application. The limitation acts on the subject matter of the suit,
without regard to the citizenship of the parties interested,

324

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Ehnoyle vs. Cohen.]

There is no hardship in allowing t6 each state to -Introl remedies
in their own Courts, with the admitted modifications; whilst endless confusion and injustice would arise from a refusal of this po-wer.
The lex loci contractus, and lex fori, forever remain with the contracting parties, in the state where the contract was made. Bank
of the United States vs. Donnelly. But, if they resort to the Courts
of other states; they must subject themselves to the laws of the
forum, which may extend or contract their remedy. The framers
of the Constitution had confidence in the judgments of all the state
tribunals, and therefore they extended to them "fhll faith and
credit." They had confidence, also, that the remedies provided in
each state would be reasonable, and they therefore mainly left them
as they were. But the construction insisted on by the plaintiff's
-counsel would overrule the lex fori of one state, by the lex fori of
another; for his argument Would have been the same, if all the
parties had lived in Georgia, and the debt had been contracted
there.
Mr. Justice Wayne delivered the opinion of the Court.
This cause has been brought to this Court, upon a certificate of
division of opinion between the judges, of the sixth Circuit Court,
upon the following points.
1. Whether the statute of limitations of Georgia can be pleaded
to an action in that state, founded upon a judgment rendered in the
state of South Carolina?
2. Whether, in the administration of assets in Georgia, a judgment rendered in South Carolina, upon a promissory note against
the intestate, when in life, should be paid in preference to simple
contract debts?
Uponneither of these points does the Court entertain a doubt.
Upon the first of them, we observe, though a judgment obtained in the Court of a state is.
not to be regarded in the Courts of
her sister states as a foreign jidgment, or as merely prima facie evidence of a debt to-sustain -an action upon the judgment, it is to be
considered only distinguishable from a foreign judgment in this,
that by the first section of the fourth article of the Constitution, and
by the act of May 26th, 1790, section 1, the judgment is a record,
conclusive upon the merits, to which full faith and credit shall be
giRen, when authenticated as the'act of Congress has prescribed.
It mu'st be obvious, when the Constitution declared that full faith
and credit shall be given in each state to the public acts, records,-and
judicial proceedings of every other state, and provides that Congress
may, by general laws, prescribe the manner in which such acts,
records,-and proceedings shall be proved, and the effect thereof,
that the latter clause, as it relates to judgments, was intended to
provide the means of giving to them the conclusiveness of judgments upon the merits, when it is sought to ;arry them into judgments by'suits in the tribunals of another state. The authenticity
of a judgment and its effect, depend upon the law made in pursu-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

325

[M"tlmoyle v. Cohen.]

ance of the Constitution; the faith and credit due to it as the
judicial proceeding of a state, is given by the Constitution, indb-'
pendently 6f all legislation. By the law of the 26th of May,
1790, the judgment is made a debt of record, not examinable
upon its merits; but it does not carry with it, into another tate,
the efficacy of a judgment upon property or persons, to be enforced by execution, 'To give it the force of a-judgment in another state, it must be made a judgment there; and can only be executed in the latter as its laws may, permit. It mist be conceded,
that the judgment of a state Court cannot be enforced -out of the
state by an execution issued within it. This concession admits the
conclusion, that under the first section of the fourth article of the
Constitution, judgments out of the state in which they are rendered,
are only evidence in a sister state that .the subject matter of the suit
has become a debt of record, which cannot be avoided but by the
plea of nul teil record. But we need not doubt What the framers
of the Constitution intended to accomplish by that section, if we reflect how unsettled the doctrine was upon the effect of foreign judgments, or the effect, rei judicato, throughout Europe, in England,
and in these States, when our first confederation was formed. On
the Continertt it was then, and continues to be, a iexed question, determined by each nation, according to its estimate of the weight of
authority to which different civilians and writers upon the laws of
nations are entitled. In England, it was an open question, having
on both sides her eminent equity, common law, and ecclesiastical
jurists. It may still be considered, in England, a controverted question, so far as jurists and elementary writers on the common law are
concerned; though the adjudications of the English Courts have now
established the rule to be, that foreign judgments are prima facie
evidence of the right and matter they purport to decide.
In these states, when "colonies, the same uncertainty existed.
When our revolution began, and independence was declared, and
the confederation was being formed, it was seen by the wise men
of that day, that the powers necessary to be given to the confederacy, and the rights to be given to the citizens of each state, in all
the states, would produce such intimate relations between the states
and persons, that the former would no longer be foreign to each
other in the sense that they had been, as dependent provinces; and
that, for the prosecution of rights in Courts, it was proper to put
an end to the uncertainty upon the subject of the effect of judgments obtained in the different states. Accordingly, in the articles
of confederation, there was this clause: "Full faith and credit shall
be given in each of these states to the records, acts, and judicial proceedings of the Courts and magistrates of every other state.?' Now,
though this does not declare what was to be the effect of a judgment obtained in one state in another state, what was meant by the
clause may be considered as conclusively determined, almost by contemporaneous exposition. For when the present Constitution was
formed, we find the same clause introduced into it with but a, alight
VOL. XIII.-2 E

"6

YSUPREME COURT.
[M'Elmoyle vs. Cohen.]

variation, making it- more comprehensive; and adding, "Congress
may, by general laws, prescribe the manner in which such acts, records, and proceedings shall be proved, and the effect thereof:" thus
providing in the Constitution for the deficiency which experience
had sh6wn to be in the provision of the confederation ; as the Congress under it could not legislate upon what should be the'effect of
a judgment obtained in one state in the other states. Whatever
difference of opinion there may have been as to the interpretation
of this article of the Constitution in another respect, there has been
none as to the power of Congress under it, to declare what shall be
the effect of a judgment of a state Court in another state of the
Union. Here, again, we haive contemporaneous legislative interpretation of the first section of the fourth article of the Constitution;
for by the act of 1790, May 26th, it was declared, " That the said
records and judicial proceedings, authenticated as aforesaid, shall
Lave such faith and credit given to them in every Court within the
United States, as they have by law or usage in the Courts of the
state from whence the said records are or shall be taken. What faith
and credit, then, is given in the states to the judgments of their
Courts? They are record evidence of a debt, or judgn ents of record, to be contested only in such way as judgments of record may
be; and, consequently, are conclusive upon the defendant in every
state, except for such causes as would be sufficient to set aside the
judgment in the Courts of the state in which it was rendered. In
other words, as has been said by a ommentator upon the Constitution; ",If a judgment is conclusive in the state where it is pronounced, it is equally conclusive, everywhere, in the states of the
Union. F,re-examinable there, it is open to the same inquiries in
every otber state." Story's Com. 183. It is, therefore, put upon the
footing of a domestic judgment; by which is meant, not having the
operation and force of a domestic judgment beyond the jurisdiction
declaring it to be a judgment, but a domestic judgment as to the
meriti of the claim, or subject matter of the suit. When, therefore,
this Court said, in Mills vs. Duryee, 7 Cranch, 481, "If it be a record, conclusive between the parties, it cannot be denied; but bythe
plea of nul teil record," this language does not admit of the interpretation that a plea, not denying the judgment, but which resists it
upon the ground of a release, payment, or a presumption of payiment,
from the lapse of time, whether such presumption-be raised by the
common law prescriptioh, or by a statute of limitation, may not be
-pleaded, any more, th'ah where this, Court, in Hampton vs. M'IConnel, 3 Wheat6n, 234, says: "The judgment of a state Court should
have the same credit, validity, and eflct, in every other Court of
the United States, which it had in the state Court where it was pro.
nounced; and that what6ver pleas would be good to a, suit thereon
in such 'tate, and none others, could be pleaded in any Court in the
United States," is intended to exclude such defences as have just
been stated, or such as inquite into the jurisdiqtion of the Court in
whlih the judgment was given, to pronounce it,
as the right 'of the

JANUARY TERM, es9
[M'Elmoyle m. COh

321

]

state itself to exercise authority over the persons or the subject matter'. It has been well said, "The Constitution did not mean to
confer a new power of jurisdiction, but simply to regulate the effect
of the acknowledged jurisdiction over persons and things within the
state." Story's Corn. 13.
. Such beinF the faith, credit, and effect, to be given to a'judgment
of one state in another, by the Constitution and the act Of Congressm,
the point under consideration will be determined by settling what is
the nature of a plea of the statute of limitations. Is it a plea that
settles the right of a party on a contract or judgnent, or one that
bars the remedy? Whatever diversity of opinion there may be
among jurists upon this point, we think it well settled to be a plea
to the remedy; and consequently that the lox fori must prevail.
Higgins vs Scott, 2 Barn. and Adolp. 413. 4 Cowen R. 528, note 10.
Id. 530. Van- Ramsdyk vs. Rane, 1 Gajis R. 371. Le Roy, vs.

Crowninshield, 2 Mason R. 351. British Linen Corn, vs. Drummend, 10 Br. and Cresw. 903. De La Vega vs, Veanna, I
Barn. and Adolph. 284. De Couche vl. Savalier, t, Johns. Ch.

Gulick vs.
R. 190. Lincoln vs. Battalle, 6 Wend. R. 475.
Lodes, Green's New Jersey Rep. 68. "3 Burge's Com. on Col. and
The statuth of Georgia is, "that actions of
For. Laws, .883.
debt ,onjudgments obtained in Courts, other than the Courts of this
state, must be brought within five years after the judgment obIt would be strange, if in'the now rell understood rights
tained."
of jiations to organize their judicial tribunals according to their
notions, of policy, it should be conceded to them in every. other
respect than that of prescribing the time within which suits shall be

litigated in their Courts. Prescription is a thing of policy, growing
out of the experience of its necessity; and the time after which
suits or actions shall be barred, has been, from a remote antiquity,
fixed by every nation, in virtue of that sovereignty by which itexercises its legislation for all persons and property within its jurisdiction. This being the foundation of the right to pass statutes of prescription or limitation, may not our- states, under our system, exer-.
cise this right in virtue of their sovereignty ? or is it to be conceded.
to them in every other particular, than that of barring the remedy
upon jidgments of other states by the lapse of time? The states
use this right upon judgments rendered in their own Courts; and
the common law raises the presumption of the payment of a judgmeit after the lapse of twenty years. May they not then limit thetime for remedies upon the judgments of other states, and alter th§q
common law-by statute, fixing -a less or larger time for such presumption, and altogether barring suits upon such judgrernts, if they
.shall not be brought within the time stated in the statute ?. It certainly will not be contended that judgment creditors of other states
shall be put upon a better footing, in regard to a state's right to
legislate in this particular, than the judgment creditors of the state in
which the judgment was obtained. And if this right so exists, may
it not be exercised by a state's restraining the remedy upon the

SUPREME COURT.
rM'Elmoyle ws. Cohen.]

judgment of another state, leaving those of its own Courts unaf.
fected by a statute of limitations, but subject to the common law
presumption of payment after the lapse of twenty years. In other
words, may not the law of.a state fix different times for barring the
remedy in a suit upon a judgment of another state, and for those of
its own-tribunals? We use this mode of argument to show the unreasonableness of a contrary doctrine. , But the point might have
been shortly dismissed with this sage declaration, that'there is no
direct constitutional inhibition upon the states, nor any clause in the
Constitution from which it can be even plausibly inferred, that the
states may-not legislate upon the remedy in suits upon the judgments of other states, exclusive of all interference with their merits.
It being settled that the statute of limitations may bar recoveries
upon foreighjudgments; that the effect intended to be given under
our Constitution to judgments, is, that they are conclusive only as
regards the merits; the common law principle then applies to suits
upon them, that they must be brought within the period prescribed
by the local law, the lex fori, or the suit will be barred.
Counsel have relied, to establish a contrary doctrine, upon MarJow vs. Naylor, Hill's South Carolina Rep. 439. But that case was
obviously decided upon a misconception of the learned judges of the
decision of this Court in the case of Mills vs. Duryee, 7 Cranch,
481.

It is, therefore, our opinion, that the statute of limitations of
*Georgia can be pleaded to an action in that state, founded upon
a judgment rendered in the staie of South Carolina.
The second question upon which the judges were divided in this
case isi wJether a judgment rendered in South Carolina, upon a
promissory note, against the "intestate when in life, should be paid
in preference to simple contract debts. The law of Georgia provides that all debts of an equal degree shall be discharged in equal
proportions as far as the assets of an intestate will extend ; and that
no preference shall be given amongst creditors in equlal -'degree.
.Prince's Laws of Georgia, 152, sec. 8. And the order prescribed for
the payment-of debts of any testator, or intestate, by executors and
administrators, is, "debts due -by the deceased as executor, administrator, or guardian ; funeral and other expenses of the last sickness;
charges of probate and will, or of the letters of administration;
next, debts due to the public; next, judgments, mortgages, and executions, the eldest first; next, rent; then, bonds or other obligations;
and, lastly, debts due on open account: but no preference whatever shall be given to creditors in equal degree, where there is deflciency in a~sets, except in cases of judgments, mortgages that shall
be recorded, from the time of recording, and executions lodged in
the sheriff's office, the eldest of which shall be first paid; or in
those cases where a creditor may have a lien on any part of the
estate." We first remark upon this- question, that it was decidedsome years since, (as is reported to, us by the present district judge,)
in the Circuit CoOdrt of the United States 'for the!district of Georgia,

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

329

[M'Elmoyle vs. Cohen.]

the question being, "whether judgments obtained in other states
take precedence of simple contract debts," that in the administration
of insolvent estates in Georgia such judgments take no precedence.
Case of Ten Eyck vs. Ten Eyck. We believe, from inquiry, for we
have no published decision in point, from the Courts of Georgia; that
the judges of her superior Courts hold the same opinion. In Cameron vs. Admrs. of Wurt , 4 M'Cord's Rep. 278, it is decided, that in
marshalling the assets of an insolvent estate, a judgment recovered
in another state only ranks as a simple contract. The decision is
correctly placed upon the footing that the first section of the fourth
article of the Constitution has effected no change in the nature of a
judgment.' "It only provides, that as matter of evidence it shall be
entitled to full faith and credit. But if the decisions in the cases of
Ten Eyck vs. Ten Eyck, and Cameron vs. Wurtz, had not been as
they are, and the point was now before us as an original question,
we would come to the same conclusion. The legislature of Georgia
does not certainly, in terms, put judgments of other states, in the'payment of decedent's debts, upon the footing of judgments of her own
Courts. The term judgments is used, and no preference can be
given to creditors in equal degree. If, however, equality in the
degree of judgment creditorship, is qualified by seniority; and if, of
executions lodged in the sheriff's office, the eldest is to be the first
satisfied'; the law of Georgia gives the order in which judgments shall
be paid. That order depends upon date, execution, arid the execution having been lodged in the sheriff's office. In case of conflict
then between judgments or executions, it is to be decided by record
evidence to be obtained from the Courts in the state ; and so far
as a right of seniority can be given by the execution being lodged
in the sheriff's office, the judgment of another state can never have
this privilege. It can have no right to an execution, in Georgia;
and any execution issued upon it, is in the state in which it was rendered. No one will contend that it could be placed with the sheriff,
to be enforced, or to be put in competition with those issued upon domestic judgments. -Here then is a case in which the judgment of
another state would be excluded by the terms of the. law, which we
think indicates the intention of the legislature not to place such a
judgment upon the footing of domestic judgments in the administration of assets. But a more conclusive reason against any such extension occurs to us. By the law of Georgia all the property of the
defendant is bound from the signing of the first judgment; all judgment obtained at.the same term of the Court bearing equal date, if.
they are entered and signed in the clerk's office at ari time within
four days after the adjournment of the Court. Prince's Dig. 211.
If then the judgment of another state is to be brought in upon the
footing of a domestic judgment in the administration of the assets
of testators and intestates, then this consequence'may ensue; that
a judgment of another state, having no lien upon property, may
take preference by the death of a defendant over domestic judgments,
having the first lien during his life; because the law says the eldest
Q

2

42

SUPREME COURT.
(M'Elmoyle vs. Cohen.]

judgment must be first satisfied. Such a right, and exclusion of
right, could never have been intended by the legislature of Georgia
to be conferred by the death of an individual. It is not necessary
to pursue this inquiry further. We therefore think, in the payment
of debts, of a testator or intestate, in Georgia, that the judgment of
another state, whatever may be the subject matter of the suit, cannot be put upon the footing of judgments rendered in that state, and
that it can only rank for that purpose as a simple contract debt.
As to the wish intimated by counsel,'in the conclusion of his
reply, that this Court would express its opinion, whether the statute
limiting the time withinwhich suits are to be brought upon the
judgments of another state is in force, we cannot comply with it; as
it is a question not comprehended in the division of opinion certified
to this Court.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the recorct
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of
Georgia, and on the points and questioans on-which the judges of the
said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which were certi-fled to this Court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of Congress in
such cases made and provided, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this Court, first: that the
statute of limitations of Georgia can be pleaded to an action in that
state, founded upon a judgment rendered in the state of South Carolina : -and, secondly, that in the administration. 6f assets in Georgia,
a judgment rendered in Soutr Carolina, upon a promissory note
against the initestate when in life, should not be paid in preference
to simple contract debts., Whereupon it-is ordered and adjudged by
this Court, that it be so.certified to the. said.Circhit Court.

