JANUARY TERM, 1839.

Tun

OCEAN INSURANCE COMPANY, PLAINTIFUS IN ERROR, VS.
WILLIAM POLLEYs, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

The settled construction given by the Supreme Court to the 25t4 section of the judiciary
act of 1789, is, that to bring a case within the reach of that section, it must appear on
the face of the record of the state Court, either by express terms, or by clear and necessary intendment, that the question of the construction of a clause of a statute of the
United States, did actually arise in the state Court; not that it might have arisen or
have been applicable to the case; and that the question was actually decided ; not that it
might have been decided by the state Court against the title, right, privilege, or exemptioh, set up by the party. If, therefore, the decision made by the state Court upon the
face of the record, is entirely consistent with the construction of the statute contended for
by the party appellant,' no case is made out for the exercise of the appellate juiisdiction
of the Supreme Court.
In the exercise of the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court on the decisions of state
Courts, the Supreme Court is not at liberty to resort to forced inferences and conjectural
reasonings, or possible, or even probable suppositions of the points raised and actually decided by those Courts. The Court must see,,plainly, that the decision was either directly
made of some matter within the puriew of the 26th section of the act of 1789 ; or that
the decision could not have been such as it was, without necessarily involving such
matter.
It is to the record, and to the record alone, that the Supreme Court can resort to ascertain
its appellate jurisdiction, in cases decided in the Supreme or Superior Court of a state.
A policy of insuraoce n a vessel sailing under a register which has been obtained without
conforming to the requisitions of the laws of the United States relative to the registry
and enrolling of vessels of the United States is not void; and an action may be maintained
on such a policy to recover a loss sustained by the assufed. The policy may not have
been designed to aid, assist, or advance any unlawful purpose; and was a lawful contract
in itself, and only remotely connected with the use of the certificate of registry. There
are cases in which a contract may be valid, notwithstanding it is remotely connected
with an independent illegal transaction ; which, however, it is not designed to aid or
promote. Suppose a vessel had been actually forfeited for somc antecedent illegal act,
are all contracts for her future employment void; although there is no illegal object in
view, and the forfeiture may never be enforced 1

IN error to the Supreme Judicial Court of the state of Maifte.
The original action was assumpsit on a poiicy of insurance, dated
July 17, 1833, upon the .schooner called the Mary, and owned by
said Polleys, for the term of one year, commencing on the l1th of
said July-sum insured $3,000. The schooner during the said
year, on June 10, 1834, was totally lost. The general issue was
pleaded.
It appeared on the trial, that a stoop was built in 1816, and was

enrolled by the name of the Sophrotia, and was again enrolled in

the customhouse, in Portland, by the same name, March 24th, 1822.

That schooner Mary was built upon the keel, floor timbers and
naval timbers of the said sloop Sophronia, and the size enlarged
nearly twelve tons, and the name of the Mary given to her after
being so elarged, and that this was known to the defendants at the
time of executing the policy; and that the certificate of Mark
Leavit was procured by said Polleys, and presented to the customhouse to obtain the enrolment of the schooner Mary, without any
fraudulent intent to deceive or defraud, but with a fair and honest
intention, as the jury believed. But that the enrolment of the sloop
VOL. XIII.-O

158

SUPREME COURT.
[The Ocean Insurance Company vs. William Polleys.]

Sophronia was not first surrendered and delivered up at the customhouse before the issuing of the enrolment of the Mary, which was
On the 3d day of June, 1833.
The counsel for the original defendant, on the trial, objected to
the admission in evidence of the enrolment of June 3, 1833, as
contrary to the laws of the United States; but the judge overruled
the objection, and it was admitted: and the counsel further insisted
that schooner on the voyage in which she was lost, was sailing under circumstances rendering her liable to forfeiture for a
violation of the laws of the United States, and that therefore, a
policy on a vessel pursuing such a voyage was not valid, or legal
and binding; but the judge also overruled this objection as insufficient to bar the action. The cause was thereupon submitted to the
jury, who returned a verdict for the original plaintiff.
The defendant prosecuted this writ of error. The case was
argued by Mr. Fletcher for the plaintiffs, and by Mr. Webster for
the defendant.
For the plaintiff, the following points were submitted.
1. That the certificate of enrolment of the schooner named in the
policy of insurance, enrolled by the name of the Mary, was procured
by said Polleys but a short time before the commencement of the
year for which she was insured, knowingly in direct violation of the
statute of the United States then in full force; of which statute he
was bound to take notice.
2. That the enrolment of said schooner thus procured by said
Polleys, by a new name, was entirely illegal, and whblly null and
void.
3. That said Polleys, by not delivering up the original certificate
-of registry, incurred a penalty of five hundred dollars ; and by being
rng-stered by a new name, the schooner lost her national character, and could no longer be deemed a ship or vessel of the United
States.
4. That said certificate of enrolment was knowingly used for
the schooner on the voyage upon which she was lost during the
year for which she was insured, she not being then actually entitled to the benefit thereof. That such use of said enrolment was
illegal, and a direct violation of the- twenty-seventh section of the
act aforesaid; and the schooner was thereby rendered liable to forfeiture.
5. That a policy of insurance on a vessel prosecuting a voyage
under a false and unlawful enrolment and certificate thereof, and
in violation of a statute of the United States, in the manner aforesaid, is not a 'binding contract; and cannot be enforced in a Court
of law.
6. That the said certificate of registry being a void, useless, and
illegal 'document, the schooner while sailing under its-pretended
sanction, was not sea-worthy; and that the implied warranty of seaworthiness was on that account violated.

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

159

[The Ocean Insurance Company vs. William Polleys.)

Mr. Fletcher, for the plaintiffs in error, said, that on the question
whether this Court had a right to entertain jurisdiction of this writ
of error, to the Supreme Judicial Court of Maine, all the cases were
collected in the opinion of this Court, in the case of Crowell vs. Randal, 10 Peters.
To give the Court jurisdiction under the 25 section of the judiciary act of 1789, by which a writ of error is authorized to the Supreme Court of the state, the 'plaintiff must claim some privilege or
exemption under an act of Congress, which has been denied to him
by a misconstruction of the act. There is no necessity that the
claim shall appear on the face of the record; if it appear that, unless
by a misconstruction of the act, the Court could not have made the
decision, or given the judgment complained of.
The record in the case before the Court, shows more than is required by the decisions of this Court. The counsel for the defendants
in the State Court, now the plaintiffs in error, objected to the admission of the enrolment of the vessel insured, in evidence, as the enrolment was contrary to the laws of the United States, and the vessel
was liable to forfeiture.' A vessel sailing in violation of the law of
the United States, could not be insured by a valid policy. The
record shows that this position was denied, and thus the jurisdiction
exists in this Court.
The law applicable to the facts of this case is clear and explicit.
By the act of Congress of December 31, 1792, 2 Laws U. S. ch.
146, when a ship or vessel is altered or increased in burthen, or
changed from one denomination to another, she must be registered
anew, but by iie same name, and the original register must be delivered up; a penalty of five hundred dollars is imposed for the violation of this provision of the law: and by the twenty-seventh
section of the act, using a register, falsely or fraudulently obtained,
if used knowingly, forfeits the vessel. The act of February 8, 1792,
puts coaoting vessels under the same regulations as those provided
by the act of December .31, 1792, "concerning the registering and
recording of ships and vessels."
By a circular letter from the Secretary of the Treasury, providing for the execution of these laws,
the collector is prohibited licensing, or enrolling, or registering a
ship or vessel, unless her previous register is delivered up.
The registering of vessels has been required by all commercial
nations. The object of those regulations is the encouragement of
ship building, and to prevent frauds on individuals. 3 Kent's Commentaries, 139. The conduct of the defendant in error was contrary
to the policy of the law, and in violation of it. No justification is
offered for this act : and it is certain that if the collector had known
the proceeding, he would not have given the register. By the register, a character was given to the vessel to which she was not
entitled. She was, in fact, liable for foreign duties.
What are the legal consequences of such proceeding ? These
are stated in the points submitted to the Court. The schooner was
entitled to a register as the Sophronia, not as the Mary; the register

160

SUPREME COURT.
[The Ocean Insurance Company

V8.

William Polleys.]

oiiginally granted to her should have been delivered up to be cancelled, and when registered anew, her enlarged capacity, and the
other alterations which had been made in her, should have been
stated. The defendant in errorwas answerable for those violations
of the law: and he cannot be permitted to recover on a contract
growing out of this conduct.
There is a penalty of five hundred dollars imposed for these violations of the law. Imposing a penalty is equivalent to an express
prohibition of the act for which the penalty is imposed.
Knowingly using a false register subjects the vessel to forfeiture.
Knowing, as meant by the statutes, is a knowledge of the facts, and
does not require a knowledge of the law. In a former act of Congress, "fraudulently using" a false register, was the language of the
statute; but the act of 1792, contains the term "knowingly." Cited;
Carthew's Rep. 252. 1 Kent's Commentaries, 467. 1 Binney's Rep.
10. 5 Barn. and Ald. 335.
The contract not being binding, cannot be enforced in a Court of
law. 1 Kent's Commentaries, 291. The'Mary WVas constantly violating the laws of the United States. Every voyage was such a
violation, and no policy of insurance could protect her in such proceeding. 12 East, 303. 1. Bos. and Pull. 272. 1 Marshall on Insurance, 52. 6 Mass. Rep. 101. 1 Emerigon, 542, ch. 12, sec. 14.
2 Bos. and Pull. 35. 2 Douglas's Rep. 467. 7 Terni. Rep. 187.
I Taunton Rep. 241. The Julia, 1 Cranch, 181. The Aurora, 8
Cranch, 203. The Hiram, 1 Wheat. 440. 15 Johns. Rep. 25.
12 East, 200. 17-Mass. 258. 2 Bos. and Pull. 370. 1 Maule and
Selwyn, 593.
The implied warranty of sea-worthiness was violated by the vessel sailing with false papers. The loss from another cause has no
influence on this principle. The vessel was insured as the Mary,
when her real name was Sophronia. This is a breach of warranty.
Cited, 6 Mass. Rep. 220. 7 T. Rep. 105. 4 Taunton, 373. 3 'Kent's
Commentaries, 257. Marshall on Insurance, 221.
Mr. Webster, for the defendapts in error, objected to the jurisdiction of the Court. It does not appear that any statute of the'United
States was misunderstood. ' Suppose the Court had said the vessel
is fbrfeetd, but the insurance is valid; does this give jurisdiction?
The enrolment, although imperfectly made, was in evidence. Has
the Superior Court of Maine decided on the effect of an act of Congress ? This does not appear, because one of the parties has a defende connected with the statute. It does not give this Court jurisdiction to revise the decision of the Court befbre which the defence
was made. If the state Court have decided wrong on the facts,
yet it does not appear the statute has been misinterpreted.
The enrolment, although irregularly obtained, was a legal paper.
The parties could be visited by a penalty, but this was not a forfeiture of the vessel. To maintain that a contract made for the protection of the property of the owner of such a vessel is void, it must

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

161

[The Ocean Insurance Company v8. William Polleys.]

be shown that, by the manner of obtaining the enrolment, the party
was deprived of any and all property in the vessel; or that -he
contract was made in aid of an illegal act. The case agreed exempts the assured from all fraud.
The contract of insurance was legal. It had nothing to do with the
act of the owner in obtaining an enrolment. It stood separate and
apart from all the former transactions. It was not like a contract
of insurance on a vessel carrying an enemy's license, where the license makes the property enemies' property.
In reply to the cases cited by the counsel for the plaintiff in error,
Mr. Webster said, they all established that the contract was itself
unlawful. In su~h a case, a Court of law will give no assistance to
enforce such an agreement.
But the acts of Congress did not make the forfeiture of the vessel, under such circumstances, absolute, even if any forfeiture could
be enforced. Proceedings against her were necessary. The government could alone enforce the law, and until this was done, the
sailing of the vessel was lawful. The power to remit for any peialty or forfeiture, under such circumstances, is given by the
statute. Thus, until the government had fully manifested its claim,
and had refused a remission, no one could allege any thing against
the vessel.
The Marywas a registered vessel of the United States, and had a
right to protection as such. If a revolt had been committed on board
of her, it would have been punished. If she had been attacked by a
foreign military force, the government of the United States would
have interfered. Cited, 13 Pickering's Rep. 518. 15 East, 364. 4
Taunton, 589. 13 Mass. Rep. 589. 6 Greenleaf's Reports, 68.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Judicial Court of the state
of Maine. The original action was assumpsit on. a policy of insurance, dated the 17th of June, 1833, whereby the Ocean Insurance
Company insured three thousand dollars on the schooner Mary,
owned by Polleys, at sea or in port, for the term of one year, commencing the risk on the 11th of July, 1833, at noon, and ending the
I1th of Juiy, 1834, at noon. The schooner was totally lost by the
perils of the sea on the 10th of June, 1834, while the policy was in
force. At the trial, on the general issue, it appeared in evidence thai
a sloop was built in 1816, and enrolled by tLe name of Sophronia,
and was again enrolled in the customhouse in Portland, by the
same name on the 24th of March, 1822. The schooner Mary was
built upon the keel, floor timbers, and naval timbers of the said sloop
Sophronia, the size was enlarged nearly twelve tons, and the name
of Mary was given to her after beifig so enlarged; and this was
known to the Insurance Company at the time of executing the policy.
A certificate of one Mark Leavit was procured by Polleys, and
presented to the customhouse to obtain an enrolment of the schooner
Mary, without any fiaudulent intent to deceive or defraud, but with
21
02

162

SUPREME COURT.,
[The Ocean Insurance Company vs.William PoIleys.]

fair and honest intentions, as the jury believed. But the enrolment
of the Sophronia was not first surrendered and delivered up at the
customhouse before the issuing of the en'rolment of the Mary, on
the 3d of June, 1833. Upon these facts, which appear upon the
bill of exceptions taken at the trial, the counsel for the Insurance
Company objected to the admission in evidence of the said enrolment of the Mary of the 3d of June, 1833, as contrary to the laws
of the United States; but the' Judge who sat at the trial overruled
the objection, and the enrolment was admitted. The same counsel
further insisted that the said schooner on the voyage on which she
was lost, was sailing under circumstances rendering her liable to forfeiture for a violation of the laws of the United States; and that
therefore a policy on a vessel pursuing such a voyage, was not
valid, or legal and binding. But the said Judge also overruled this
objection as insufficient to bar the action. Other points arose at the
trial, upon which, however, it is unnecessary for us to dwell; because they are in no shape cognizable by this Court in the exercise
of its appellate jurisdiction over the judgmentsand decrees of the
state Courts, under the 25th section of the judiciary act of 1789, ch.
20. The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, (Polleys,) which was
confirmed by the whole Court; and judgment passed thereon accordingly for him.
Two questions have been argued before us. The first is, whether
upon the face of the record any case is made out for the exercise
of the appellate jurisdiction of this Court under the 25th section of
the act of 1789, ch. 20. The next is, whether the state Court has in
fact misconstrued the laws of the United States, upon the points in
controversy at the trial to the prejudice of the Insurance Company.
In our judgment it is wholly unnecessary to consider the last
question, because we are of opinion that upon the face of the record
no case is shown for the exercise of the appellate jurisdiction of this
Court. The only clause of the 25th section of the judiciary act of
1789, ch. 20, conferring this appellate jurisdiction, which is applicable to the -)resent case, is, that where there is drawn in question
in the state Court the construction of a clause of a statute of the
United States, and the decision of the state Court is against the title,
right, privilege or exeffnption set up or claimed by either party, under
that clause of the statute ; the settled construction of this Court is,
that to bring any case within the reach of the 25th section, it must
appear upon the face of the record of the state Court, either by express terms, or by clear and necessary intendment, that the question
did actually arise in the state Court, not that it might have arisen,
or have been applicable to the case; and that the question was actually decided, not that it might have been decided by the state
Court, against the title, right, or privilege, or exemption set up by
the party. If therefore the decision made by the state Court is upon
the face of this record entirely consistent with the construction of the
statute contended for by the party appellant, no case is made out for
the exercise of the appellate jurisdiction of this Court.

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

163

[The Ocean Insurance Company vs. William Polleys.]

Let us now apply this doctrine to the circumstances of the present
case. The first objection was to the admission of the enrolment of
the Mary as evidence to the jury upon the ground that it was "contrary to the laws of the United States ;" meaning, undoubtedly, that
it was obtained contrary to the requirements of the act of Congress
concerning the registering and recording of ships or vessels, pagsed
on the 31st of December, 1792, ch. 45. That act, in the 14th section,
provides, among other things, that when any ship or vessel which
shall have been registered pursuant to the act, shall be altered in
form or burden by being lengthened or.built upon, or from one denomination to another, by the mode or method of riging or fitting, the
ship or vessel shall be registered anew by her former name; otherwise she shall cease to be deemed a ship or vessel of the United
States: and upon her being registered anew, the former'certificate
of registry is to be delivered up to the collector: and if not so delivered up, excipt where it is destroyed or lost or unintentionally mislaid, the owner is made liable to the forfeiture of five hundred dollars. Now, it is observable, that the present policy cbntains no
warranty or representation of the national character of the Mary;
and therefore the only assignable reason for offering the new enrolment, (as it is called,) meaning the new certificate of registry, in evidence was to establish the ownership of the vessel to be in P61leys.
For this purpose it was clearly admissible, however irregularly or
wrongfully this enrolment may have been obtained at the customhouse. The Couirt, might,•'therefore, very properly have admitted
the paper in evidence for this purpose, and, for aught that appears
on the record, actually did so, without in the slightest degree contesting that it had been obtained contrary to the laws of the United
States. In this view, as-a matter of'evidence proper for the consideration of the jury on the question of ownership, it is clear, that the
decision does not fall within the appellate jurisdiction of this Court,
under the 25th section of the act of 1789, already referred to.
Then as to the other point. The objection made by the counsel for
the Insurance Company was, that the schooner (Mary,) on the voyage on which she was lost, was sailing under circumstances rendering her liable to forfeiture for a violation of the laws of' the United
States ;.
and that therefore a policy on a vessel pursuing such a voyage was not valid, or legal and binding. But the Judge also over-i
ruled this objection, as insufficient to bar the action. The objection
was founded on the 27th section of the ship registry act of 1792, ch.
45, above referred to; which declares, that if any certificate of registry or record shall be fraudulently or knowingly used for any ship
or vessel not then actually entitled to the benefit thereof, according
to the true intent of this act,.such ship or vessel shall be forfeited to
the United States 'with her tackle, apparel, and furniture. The objection then, as insisted on by the counsel for the Insurance Company, involved two distinct propositions. The first was, that the
schooner was sailing on the voyage under circumstances which rendered her liable to forfeiture. The sec6nd was, that the policy on

164

SUPREME COURT.
[The Ocean Insurance Company a. William Polleys.]

her was therefore void. Now, the first might have been most fully
admitted by th6 Court, and yet the second have been denied, upon
the ground that the policy was a lawful contract in itself, and only
remotely connected with the illegal use of the certificate of registr 4;
and intho respect designed to aid, assist, or advance any such illegal
purpose. We all 'know that there are cases where a contract may
be valid, notwithstanding it is remotely connected with an independent illegal transaction, which, however, it is not designed to aid or
promote. The case of Armstrong vs. Toler, 11 Wheat. R. 258, presented a question of this sort, and was decided in favour pf such a
contract. But cases might easily be put, where the doctrine itself
would admit of a far more simple and easy illustration. Suppose
the Mary had been repaired in port, and the shipwrights had known
the circumstances under which she had obtained the new certificate
of registry; would they in consequence of such knowledge alone,
have lost their title to recover for their own work and labour ? Suppose a vessel had been actually forfeited by some antecedent illegal
aot, are all contracts for her future employment void; although there
is no illegal *object in view, and the forfeiture may never be enforced ?
In order to bring the present case within the jurisdiction of this
Court, it must clearly appear on the face of the record that the state
Court did decide against the construction of the laws of the United
States, insisted on by the Insurance Company : for if the Court did
decide in favour of that construction, and yet held the policy valid
upon other grounds consistently with that decision, we have nothing
to do with thelatter point, and have no right to inquire, whether it
was a just application of the general principles of commercial law, or
not. Now, so far is it from appearing on the face of the record, that
the state Court decided against the construction of the laws of the.
United States, insisted on by the Insurance Company; that the contrary may be fairly inferred from the language of the Court in overruling the objection.

The objection was overruled as

"

insufficient to

bar the action;" that is, the action on the policy was still maintain-able, notwithstanding the Mary "was sailing under circumstances
rendering her liable to forfeiture for a violation of the laws" of the
United States.
In the exercise of the appellate jurisdiction of this Court over the'
decisions of state Courts, we are not at liberty to resort to forced
inferences and conjectural reasonings, or possible or even probable
suppositions of the points raised and actually decided by those Courts.
We must see plainly that the decision was either directly made of
some matter within the purview of the 25th section of the act of 1798 ;
or that,the decision could not have been what it was without necessarily involving such matter. In the present case we can arrive
upon the record at no such conclusion. The consequence is, that
the cause must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
We have been furnished with a copy of the opinion of the learned
Judges in the state Court in this very case and we are gratified in

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

165

[The Ocean Insurance Company vs. William Polleys.]

finding that it abundantly confirms the deductions Which, we have
drawn from the r~cord. But it is proper to add, tha't that opinion,
if it had been otherwise, could not have had any influenee upon our
present opinion; since it constitutes no part of the record; and it is
to the record, and the record only, that we can resort to- ascertain
our appellate jurisdiction in cases of this sort.
The writ of error is accordingly dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

