SUPREME COURT.

THE UNITED STATES VS. JAMES

E. HARDYMAN.

The defendant was indicted for receiving treasury notes of the United States, stolen from the
United States mail. The indictment, in one of the counts, described oine of the treasury
notes as bearing interest annually of one per centum. A treasury note was offered in evidence, bearing interest at one M. per centum; and parol evidence was offered to show
that treasury notes, such as the one offered in evidence,'were received by the officers of
the, go;ernment as bearing interest, of one mill per centm per annum, not one per.
centum per annum. The Court held thatTreasury notes issued by the authority of the act of Congress passed on the 12th of October, 1838, are promissory notes within the meaning of the act of Congress of 3d March,
1825.
The letter M, which appears on the face of the note offered in evidence, is a material part
of the description of the note.
It would be proper to receive parol evidence for the purpose of explaining the meaning
of the letter M, and proving the practice and usage of the treasury department and
officers of the government and others, lawful receivers of similar treasury notes; in order
to show thereby the meaning intended to be attached, and actually attached, to the
letter M by the treasury department and others; and that by such 'meaning the said
treasury note bears one mill per centum interest,-and not one per centun, interest.
When a note is given payable in foreign coin, thevalue of each coin in current money
must be averred; and under such averment evidence of the value may be received.

ON a certificate of division in opinion from the Circuit Court of
the United States for the eastern district of Virginia.

James E. Hardyman Was indicted in the Circuit Court of the
eastern district of Virginia, for buying, receiving, and concealing
treasury notes of the United States, knowing them to have been
stolen. The treasury notes were alleged to have been stolen from
the mail of the United States by Winston, a negro man, or by persons unknown. Winston-was at the same time indicted for robbing
the mail of the United States, of ten treasury notes. The indictment
contained four counts, charging the defendant with receiving treasury notes, bearing interest at one per centum, and at five per centum
per annum.
The defendant moved the Court to quash the indictment, upon
the ground that the papers described in the said indictment are not
promissory notes under the act of Congress approved on the 3d day
of March; 1825, under which the prisoner is indicted; and the act
of Congress, approved the 12th day of October, 1837, by virtue of
which the said notes were issued, describes them as treasury notes,
and does not provide, nor does any other act of Congress provide
any penalty for stealing these notes from the mail of the United
States, or receiving them, knowing them to be stolen ; and upon this
motion the Court being divided in opinion, the said indictment was
not quashed.
The Attorney for the United States, further proceeding in the
case, offered as evidence to the jury, a treasury note for fifty dollars,
payable in one year, bearing interest at the rate of one M. per
centum.
The counsel for the accused moved the Court to exclude it front

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

117

[The United States tw. James E. Hardyman.]
the jury as evidence, upon the ground that itedoes not answer the
description of any one of the notes set forth in the indictment, as it
bears interest after the rate neither of five per-centum nor of one per
centum, but bears an interest after the rate of one mill per centur, as
signified by the letter "M" after the word "one" upon the face of the
said note: and to sustain inis motion, the defendant proved, by the
collector of the port of Richmond, that he received notes such as that
above described, as notes bearing interest after the rate of one mill
per centum, and not one per centum, and the government so received them from him; and the letter M aforesaid was understood
to signify and be'intended to mean mill: and also proved that the
Secretary of the Treasury had issued, as far as the said collector,
and another witness who derived his impression from the Treagurer
of the United States, and the officers of the government, knew and
believed, no treasury note bearing interest after the rate of one per
centum. Upon this motion the Court was also divided in opinion,
not being satisfied that the note did appear by its face to bear in*
terest after the rate of one mill, and not being satisfied that it was.
competent to the defendant by parol evidence to explain any word
or letter upon the face of the s'aid note, so as to show what its meaning was, either by resort to any definition of it, or to the exposition
of it by the practice of the treasury department, and the officers of
the government and the public; and, therefore, that it was 'not competent to the defendant sQ to explain the letter M aforesaid, which
appears on the face of the said note, and of which no notice is taken
in the indictment, for the purposes of showing that by that letter the
makers of the said note intended to fix the rate of interesl at one mill
per centum. And thereupon, upon the motion of the accused, and
with the consent of the Attorney for the United States, the 'Court
adjourned to the Supreme Court of the United States for its decision,
the following questions, viz.:1. Are the treasury notesissued by authority bf the '.act of Congress passed on the 12th day 6f October, in the year 1838, promissory notes within the meaning of the act of Congress, approved on
the 3d day of March, 1825, under which the prisoner is indicted;
and is there a sufficient averment in the indictment in this cause
of the stealing and receiving of such treasury notes ?
2. Is the letter "M," which appears upon the face of the notei
offered as evidence, a material part of the description of the note ?
3. Would it be proper to receive parol evidence for the purpose
of explaining the meaning of the said letter M, and proving the
practice and usage of the treasury department and officers of the
government and others, lawful receivers of similar treasury notes,
in order to-show thereby the meaning intended to be attached, and
actually attached to the said letter M by the treasury department
and others; and that by such meaning the said treasury note bears
one mill per centum interest; and not one per centum interest ?
The case was submitted to the 'Court by Mr. Grundy, Attorney
General of the United States.

178

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v8. James E. Hardymam]

Mr. Justice MLEAIN delivered the opinion of the Court:This case comes before this Court on a certificate of division of
opinion of the judges of the Circuit Court, for the eastern district
of Virginia.
The defendant was indicted under the 45th section of the postoffice law, for buying, receiving, and concealing certain promissoly
notes called treasury notes, which he knew had been stolen from the
mail of the United States. And, among others, one of the notes
was described in the indictment, "as a promissory note called -a
treasury note, for the payment of fifty dollars, with interesf at the
rate of one per centum," &c.
On the production of the note in evidence, it was found to be accurately described in the indictment in all parts which were attempted
to be described, except on the face of the note; instead of the above
words of "with interest at the rate of one per centum," &c., the
words were, "with interest at the rate of one M per centum."
And the counsel for the defendant moved the Court to exclude
the note from the jury, for the variance; and to sustain this motion,
the defendant proved, by the collector of the customs at Richmond,
that he received notes, such as the one described, as notes bearing
interest after the rate of one mill per centum, and not one per
centum; and that the government so received them from him.
And the judges being divided on this motion, as also on a motion
to quash the indictment, on the ground that the notes set forth in
the indictment were not promissory notes, within the act of Congress, the following points were certified for the decision of this
Court.
1. Are the treasury notes issued by.authority of the act of Congress passed on the 12th day of October, in the year 1838, promissory notes within the meaning of the act of Congress, approved on
the 3d day of March, 1825, under which the prisoner is indicted;
and is there a sufficient averment in the indictment in-this cause, of
the stealing and receiving such treasury notes.
2. Is the letter "M," which appears upon the face of the note offered as evidence, a material part of the description of the said note ?
3. Would it be proper to receive parol evidence for the purpose
of explaining the meaning of the said letter "M," and proving the
practice and usage of the treasury department and officers of the
government and others, lawful receivers of similar treasury notes,
in order to show thereby the meaning intended to be attached, and
actually attached, to the said letter M by the treasury department
and others; and that by such meaning the said treasr-y note bears
one mill per centum:interest, and not one per centum interest.
As to the first 'point, we entertain no doubt that the notes. described in the, indictment, are promissory notes wlithin the act of
Congress under which the indictment is framed. They contain a
psomise to pay money by the United States, and they'are substantially and technically embraced by the law. And we think the
averment, though not very technically expressed in the indictment,

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

170

[The United States vs. James E. Hardyman.]

that ,the defendant received the notes, knowing them to have been
stolen from the mail, is sufficient.
We think also, that the letter M, which appears on the face of
the note, is a material part of it. It limits the interest on the note
to one mill per centum, instead of one per centur, as stated in the
indictm6nt.
The indictment does not profess to set out an exact recital of the
note, but merely to give such a description of it, as to make it
evidence in the case. And this is all that the law requires. But
the description, as far as it goes, must be accurate, so as to identify
the note. Any suibstantial variance between. the note described,
and the one offered in evidence, must be fatal to the prosecution.
In this respect the rules of pleading are the same in criminal as in
civil proceedings.
If the note in question had been given by an individual, and an
action of assumpsit had been brought on it, the declaration must
have described it accurately; and by-a proper averment shown themeaning and effect of the letter M, on the face of the note. And
so where a note is given payable in foreign coin, the value of such
coin, in current money, must be, averred; and under such averment,
evidence of the value may be received.
This treasury note mig'ht, perhaps, have been described in the
indictment with sufficient certainty, without stating the rate of interest which it bears ; but if this part of the note be described, it must
be done accurately. And: this might have been done by copying
the words of the note, including: the letter M. It would not have
been improper, though not essential, after the recital, to aver the
meaning and effect of the letter M; and then proof would be required to "sustain the averment.
We think, under the circumstances of the case, that parol proof
may be received to show the meaning and effect of the letter M, as
inserted in the body of the note; and if such evidence hall establish a substantial variance between the note described in the indictment and the one offered in evidence, it must be fatal to the
prosecution, whether such evidence be submitted to the decision of
the Court or to the jury, under the instruction of the Court.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit'Couirt of the United States for the eastern district
of Virginia, and on the points and questions, on which the judges.
of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which ivere
certified to this Court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of Congress in such case made and provided, andwas argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this Court, 1st.- That
the treasury notes issued by authority of the act of Congress,
passed on the twelfth day of October, in the year 1838, are promissory notes, within the meaning of the act of Congress approved
the third day of March, 1825, under which the prisoner is indicted;
and- that there is a sufficient aVertnent in the indictment in this

t8o

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States vs. .ames E. Handyman.]

cause of the stealing'and receiving such treasury notes. 2d. That
the letter "M," which appears upon the face of the note offered as
evidence, is a material part of the description of said note. And,
3d. That it would be proper to receive parol evidence for the purpose of explaining the meaning of the said letter M, and proving
the practice and usage of the treasury department -and officers of
the government and, others, lawful receivers of similar treasury
notes; in order to show thereby the meaning intended to be attached
and actually attached to the said letter M by the treasury department and others, and that by such meaning the said treasury note
bears one mill per centum interest, and not one per centum interest.

