JANUARY TERM, 1839.

THE BANK OF THE"UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V&. GEORGE W.
PETER AND OTHERS, APPELLEES.
it is awell settled principle in equity, that a judgment creditor, where he is compelled to pay
off prior encumbrances on land to obtain the benefit of his judgment, may, by assignment,
secure to himself the rights of the encumbrances; and the same, rule applies, where a
junior mortgagee is obliged to satisfy prior mortgages. He stands as the assignee of such
mortgages, and may claim all the benefits under the lien that could have been claimed
by his assignor. But the effects of this principle may be controlled by acts of the parties.

ON appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
county of Washington in the District of Columbia.
This case was argued by Mr. Sergeant and Coxe, for the appellants, and by Mr. Key, for the appellees.
Mr. Justice M'LEAN deliveredI the opinion of the Court.This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court, for the
District of Columbia.
The facts out of which the controversy arises are substantially as
follows:
At April term, 1822, the Union Bank, of Georgetown, recovered
two judgments against George Peter, amounting, exclusive of costs,
to the sum of seven thousand nine hundred and thirty-four dollars.
On the 9th April, 1824, George Peter executed a deed of trust to
Thomas Peter and Robert P. Dunlop, which was supposed, at the
time, to include all the real property owned by George Peter within
the District of Columbia. The conveyance was made in trust, to
indemnify Thomas Peter, who had become the endorser of George
to a large amount. A great number of debts were enumerated in
the deed, and among others, one to the Bank of the United States
of twelve thousand dollars; which were designed to be paid in whole
or in part, by the sale of the property included in the deed of trust.
The judgments of the UniQn Bank, above stated, were not embraced by the deed of trust.
Before any act was done under this deed, Dunlop relinquished
the trust to Thomas Peter, his co-trustee.
On the 19th May, 1824, the Bank of the United States recovered
a judgment of five thousand dollars against George Peter, as endorser or drawer with John Peter.
-InSepteffiber, 1829, the property conveyed in trust was-sold, by
Richard Smith, cashier of the branch Bank of the United States;
who had been appointed by Thomas Peter, with the consent of the
creditors, to act as agent in the premises. The nett proceeds of the
sale, deducting certain charges, were $37,285 90, an amount insufficient to discharge all the debts.
The judgments of the Union Bank, though not included in the

124

SUPREME COURT.
[The Bank of the United States vs. George W. Peter et al.]

deed of trust, constituted a lien 9n all the real property of George
Peter in the -district ; and in order to give unencumbered titles to
purchasers at the above sale, Richard Smith, with the consent of
the creditors and Thomas Peter, paid those judgments out of the
proceeds of the sale; but satisfaction was not entered upon the
record. The payment was stated to be for the use of the Bank of
the United States ; and writs of scire facias have been brought to
revive the judgments.
It hving been discovered that the trust deed of the 9th April,
1824, did not include all the property of George Peter within the
district; on the 1st October, 1829, he executed another deed of
trust to Thomas Peter, for ten lots in the city of Washington, which
were required to be sold, and the proceeds'applied in -paying certain
judgments against George Peter as drawer, and Thomas Peter as
endorser. One of the judgments specified was obtained by the
Bank of the United States. And on 7th May, 1830, another deed
of trust was executed by George Peter to Thomas Peter, including
the above ten lots and one other lot in the city of Washington.
This deed was designed to remedy some, defect or informality in the
first deed for the ten lots, and to convey one other, lot; the same
judgments are recited as in the first deed, and the same trust declared.
These eleven lots were sold by Richard Smith, in October, 1829,
and May, 1830, for $5280 70.
In 1834, Thomas Peter died, and this proceeding is carried on by
his executors; who, with George Peter, filed their bill stating the
above facts, and praying that Richard Smith and the Bank of the
United States be decreed to pay over the proceeds of the sale of the
eleven lots, in their possession, to the creditors named in the trust
deed of 9th April, 1824. This application 9 made on the ground
that as the judgments of the Union Bank Were a lien upon the
eleven lots, and were paid out of the trust funds, the trustee, in
behalf of the creditors and himself, has a right, in equity, to th6
proceeds of the sale of these lots, under'the lien of the judgments.
. This claim is resisted by the Bank of the United States, on the
ground that the judgment obtained by the bank for $5000, in May,
1824, long before the execution of the deed of trust for these lots,
constituted a lien upon them, after the discharge of the judgments
of the Union Bank. There were other judgments against George
Peter, rendered in May, 1824, whichwere not provided for in the
trust deed of April, 1824, and which claim a proportionate interest
with the Bank of the United States, in the lien on the eleven lots.
This claim is not resisted by the Bank of the United States, which
claims out of the proceeds of the sale of the eleven lots, as its dividend, the sum of $2428 62.
And the question in this controversy is, whether the proceeds of
the sale of the eleven lots shall be paid to the creditors named in
the deed of trust of the 9th April, 1824- to the Bank of the United

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

125

[The Bank of the United States vs. George W. Peter et. al]

States, on their judgment, and on the other judg'inents of ,May,
1824, under which the lien is set up; or to the creditors named in
the trust deeds of these lots of 1829 and 1830.
Although the bill in this case, in its specific prayer, does not ex,
tend beyond an application of this fund under the. first deed of trust;
yet there are- certain- agreements and admissions pn the record,
which authorize the Court to make a final decision in the case.
It seems that a satisfaction has not been entered on the judgments of the Union Bank, although they have been paid in full.
The entry that this payment was made for the use of- the -Bank of
the United States, can have no effect favourable to the Bank, on the
present question. Under the trust deed, the Bank of the United
States had but a common interest with the other creditors named,
in discharging or controlling the lien of these judgments. And it
is on the discharge of this encumbrance by the trustee, out of the
trust fund, that he sets up the right in equity, in behalf of himself
and the creditors named in the deed, to be subrogated to all the
rights of the-Union Bank as plaintiffs in the judgments.
. It is a well settled principle in equity, where a judgment'creditor,
who is compelled to pay off prior encumbrances on land to obtain
the benefit of his judgment, may, by assignment, secure to himself
the-rights of the encumbrances. And the same rule applies where
a junior mortgagee, to save his lien, is obliged to satisfy prior mortgages on the same estate. He stands as the assignee of such mort,
gages, and may claim all the benefits under the. lien that could have
been claimed by is assignor
But the effect of this principle is controlled in the present case,
by the subsequent acts of the parties.
If the lien of the judgments of the Union Bank had been unconditionally extinguished, the lien of the judgment of the Bank of
the United States, and the other judgments of the same date, Would
have attached to the eleven lots; but this effect has also been controlled by the acts of the parties.
The judgments of the Union Bank were not paid until January,
1830. So that prior to this time, on no principle could the lien of
these judgments be held to be extinguished. And before this time
the trust deed was executed.
This deed was executed on the 1st Octobbr, 1829,and it contains the
following recital: "Whereas, the said George Peter is indebted to the
president, directors, and company of the Bank of the United States;
to the president and directors of the Union Bank of Georgetown;
and to the president and directors of the Farmers' and Mechanics'
Bank of Georgetown, in divers large sums of money, for which the
said George Peter gave his several promissory notes, payable to thesaid Thomas Peter, and by him endorsed to the said banks, upon
which notes, judgments have been obtained," &c. And the lots
are conveyed to Thomas Peter in trust for the payment of the. above
judgments; and were sold in October, 1829, and May, 1830, by
Richard Smith, agent for the trustee and the creditors named in the
L2

126

SUPREME COURT.
[The Bank of the United States vs. George W. Peter et a]

deed. He was cashier of'the branch Bank of the United States,
at Washington, and represented the interests of the bank in the
proceeding.
From these facts it appears, that before the judgments of the
Union Bank were satisfied, and consequently before there was any
pretence that the lien of these judgments on these lots was extinguished, with the consent and approbation of all the parties interested, the deed of the !st October, 1829, was executed.

That this

arrangement was made with the approbation of the Bank of the
United States, is clear from the face of the deed, and the agency of
Smith in selling the property.
Except by virtue of the trust deed, Smith had no right to sell the
property; and acting as he did for the creditors named in the deed,
among which the Bank of the United States was prominent, it is
too late for the bank, after the sale, to disavow his agency.
The contingent lien of the bank on the eleven lots, by virtue of
its judgment, in May 1824, does not seem to have been considered
by the- bank or the trustee, When the trust deed was executed as of
any value. It depended entirely on the unconditional extinguishment of the lien under the judgments of the Union Bank.
It is contended, that as the judgments of the Union Bank were a
lien upon all the real estate of George Peter in the district, that
the Court would have directed executions on these judgments to
be levied on the property of Peter, other than the eleven lots; so as
to have left them to be sold under the judgment of the Bank of the
United States. And that the same rule should now prevail.
The answer to this is, that before the judgment of the Rank of
the United States was rendered, the first deed of trust was executed,
which embraced all the property- of Peter in the district, except the
eleven lots. That this deed was valid, and that the rule would
have been applied as between the lien of the Union Bank and the
grantee of the first deed of trust, but not as to subsequent liens.
Here are the judgment lien and the trust deed, covering the same
property, except the eleven lots, which are covered by the judg.
ments, but not by the deed. The judgment of the Bank of the
United States created no lien. Under such circumstances, the
Court, could not have postponed either the lien of the Union Bank
or the rights under the deed of trust, in behalf of the judgment of the
Bank of the United States; but would have directed that the eleven
lots should be sold, under the judgments of the Union Bank.
This -would have been the correct rule under these conflicting rights; but the case turns on the deeds of trust of 1829 and
1830, which conveyed the title, subject only to the prior lien of the
judgments of the Union Bank. And this was done with the consent
of the agent of the Bank of the United States., We think this consent, as shown in the deeds, and the sale of the eleven lots, cQnnected
with the facts of the case, goes to establish the trust deeds; and that
the proceeds 9f the sale of these lots must be paid over on the judgments specified in the deeds according to their respective priorities.

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

127

(The Bank of the United States vs. George W. Peter et al,]

As the decree of the Circuit Court is not in accordance with this
view of the case, it must be reversed; and the case sent down for
further proceedings.
This cause came on to :be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is adjudged and
decreed by this Court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed; and this cause be
remanded to the said Circuit Court for further proceedings to be
had therein in conformity to the opinion of this Court.

