JANIJfRY TFRM 1839.

WILLIAM A. BRADLEY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, vs. THE WASIIINGTON,
ALEXANDRIA, AND GEORGETOWN STEAM PACKET COMPANY, DE-

FENDANTS IN ERROR,
The plaintiff in error had, by an agreement in writing, hired a steamboat to be put "on the
route" from Washington, in the District of Columbia, to Potomac creek, until another
steamboat, then building should be prepared, and be put "on the route." .The plaintiff
in error was the contractor for carrying the mail of the United States, which was carried
in a steamboat to Potomac creek; except in winter, when'the-navigation of the river Po-.
tomac was ititerrupted by ice, when the mail w s carried by land. The steamboat so
hired was employed in carrying the mail. The ice prevented the use of the steamboat;
and the owners claimed, under the contract, the hire of the boat during the time her
employment was thus interrupted. The Circuit Court refused to allow parol evidence
to be given to'show the purpose for which the steamboat was employed, and to explain
the meaning of the terms used in the contract, and of other matters conducing to show
the meaning of the contract. The Court held that the evidence was admissible.
It is a principle recognised and acted upon as a cardinal rule by all courts of justice, in the
construction of contracts, that the intention of the parties is to be inquired into; and, if
not forbidden by law, is to be effectuated.
Extrinsic evidence is not admissible to explain a patent ambiguity, that is, one apparent on
the face of the instrument; but it is admissible to explain a latent ambiguity, that is, one
not apparent on the face of the instrument, but one arising from extrinsic evidence ; that
is but to remove the ambiguity by the same kind of evidence as that by which it is created.
Extrinsic parol evidence is admissible to give effect to a written instrument, by applying it
to its proper subject matter, by proving the circumstances under which it was made,
whenever, without the aid of such evidence, the application could not be made in the
particular case.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for Washington
County, in the District of Columbia.
This was an action on the case, brought in the Circuit Court, on
the 24th December 1834, by the defendants in error. The claiin of
the plaintiffs was for two thousand seven hundred and sixty-five
dollars, alleged to be due on the 7th day of February, 1832, for the
hire of.the steamboat Franklin, before that time -let and delivered by
the plaintiffs to the defendant, now the plaintiff in error.
The cause was tried in 1838, and the jury, under the directions
of the Court, found a verdict for the plaintiffs. The defendant tendered a bill of exceptions to the opinion of the Court, on-the matters
in controversy, which was duly signed and sealed. The Court
entered a judgment for the plaintiffs, according to the verdict ; and
the defendant prosecuted this writ of error.
The bill of exceptions stated, that the plaintiffs gave in evidence
and read to the jury the following paper, dated 19th November,
1831, signed by William A. Bradley, as follows :
"I agree to hire the steamboat Franklin, until the Sydney is
placed on the route, to commence to-morrow, 20th instant at ($35)

thirty-five dollars per day, clear of all expenses, other than the wages
of Captain Nevitt.
" 19th Nov. 1831."
H212

W. A.

BRADLEY,

90

SUPREME COURT.

[Bradley vs. The Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Steam Packet Company.]

"On the part of the Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown
Steam Packet Company, I agree to the terms offered by William A.
Bradley, Esqr. for the use of the steamboat Franklin, until the Sydney is placed on the route to Potomac creek; which is thirty-:five
dollars per day, clear of all -xpenses, other than the wages of Capt.
Nevitt, which are to bt paiq. oy our tompany.

"W.

GUNTON,

President.

"Washington City, Nov.- 19th, 1831."

"Pisn y THOMpSON, Esqr.

" Wahington City, Dec. 5th, 1831.
SIR--I will thank you to advise the president and directors
of Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Steam Packet Company,
that, the navigation of the Potomac being closed by ice, we have
this day commenced carryifhg the mail by-land, inder our winter
arrangement ; and have therefore no further occasion for the steamboat Franklin, which is now in Alexandria in charge of Capt. Nevitt.
The balahice due your companyfor the use of the Franklin, under
my contract with Dr. Gunton, will be paid on the presentation of a
bill and receipt therefor. With great respect,
Your obedient servant,
W. A. BRADLEY.
"PISHEY THOMPSON, Esqr. Present."
DEAR

In reply to this letter the president of the Steam Packet Company
wrote to the defendant as follows:" Washington, Dec. 6th, 1831.
"SIR-Your letter of the 5th instant to Mr. Pishey Thompson,
has been this afternoon submitted to the board of directors of the
Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Steam Packet Company,
at a meeting holden for the purpose. After mentioning that the
navigation of the Potomac is closed by ice; and that you had commenced carrying the mail by land, under your-winter arrangement,
you have therein signified you have -no further occasion for the
steamboat Franklin, and that she was then in Alexandria in charge
of Captain Nevitt.
"The agreement entered into by you, contains no clause making
its continuance to depend on the matters you have designated; but,
on the contrary, an unconditional stipulation to "hire the Franklin
until the Sydney is placed on the route :" and I am instructed to inform you that the board cannot admit your right to terminate the
agreement on such grounds, and regard it as being still in full force,
and the boat as being in your charge.
"However disposed the board might have been to concur with
'you in putting an 'entl to the agreement, under the circumstances
you have described, if the company had not been already in litigation with you and your colleague, for the recovery of a compensation for the use of the Franklin under another contract, to the strict
letter of which a rigid adherence is contended for on your-part, not-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

91

(Bradley vs. Thee Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Steam Packet Company.]

withistanding it had undergone a verbal modification; the board
could not but recollect this,-and be ifluenced thereby,
Yours, respectfully,
W. GUN. qN, President."
"WM. A. BRADLEY, Esq."1
The plaintiffs also proved that the s(famboat Sydney was in Baltimore in November, 1831, andcontinued there until tlhe 26th of
January, 1832; and that she left there and irrived in the Potomac,
and was put "on the route" to Potomac Creek on the 6th of February of that year. She had not been able to start from Baltimore
until the 25th January, 1832. The plaintiffs claimed the hire of
the Franklin from the 20th of November, 1831, to the 6th day of
March, 1832, at thirty-five dollars per day.
Th6 defendant, to support the issue on his part, offered to prove,
by competent witnesses, that for several years immediately preceding the date of the contract, he had been, and was still, contractor for the transportation of the United States mail from Washington to Fredericksburg; that the customary route of said, mail
was by steamboat from Washington to Potomac Creek, thence by
land to Fredericksburg, in which steamboat passengers were also
usually transported on said route; that during all that time the defendant had used a steamboat belonging to himself on said route;
that he also kept an establishment of horses and stages for the transportation of said mail all the way by land from Washington to
Fredericksburg, at seasons when the navigation of steamboats was
stopped by ice; and had been obliged, for. a considerable portion of
every winter during tie time he had been so employed in the transportation of the mail, to use his said stages and horses for the transportation of the mails all the way by land to Fredericksburg; in the
mean time laying up his steamboat. That just before the date Of
said contract, the defendant's own steamboat, usually employed as
aforesaid on said route, had been disabled. and the defendant was
at the time about completing a new boat, called the Sydney; which
had been built at Washington, and sent round to Baltimore for the
purpose of being fitted with her engine, and other equipmentp necessary to complete her for running on said rolute; and that she lay
at Baltimore, in the hands of the workmen there, at the date of said
contract; that on the morning of the 5th day of Decembar, 1831,
Captain Nevitt, the commander of -the said steamboat Franklin, refused to go on the said route of the defendants to Fredericksburg, in
consequence,of the ice then forming in the river, unless he was di..
rected to do so by the plaintiffs; that application was then made to
Doctor Gunton, the president of the company, and he directed the
said captain to proceed as required, and obey the orders of the defendant ; that the said captain did then proceed on the said route,
and returned as far as Alexandria, where he stopped, and sent up
the mail by land; and, although required to do so by .the agent of
the said defendant, he refused to come up to the city of Washington with the boat, in consequence of the ice which had formed Wn

92

SUPREME COURT.

[Bradley vs. The Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Steam Packet Company.]

the river; and that said boat fay'at Alexandria, frozen up in the
harbour, from that time till the 5th February, 1832 ; that at the
same time the navigation of the Potomac river became obstructed
as aforesaid, the navigation at and from Baltimore became also obstructed from the same cause, and the said steamboat Sydney was
also frozen up in the basin at Baltimore, before she had been completely equipped with her engine; that at the time she was frozen
up, she wanted nothing to complete her eqipment but the insertion
of two pipes, a part of her efngine, which pipes bad been mide, but
not then put in place, the completing of which would not have re.quired more than two days, and the boat would have been in complete order for being sent round to Washington, and put upon said
route; but the ice having interposed, it was deemed by the workmen, and those in charge of the boat, that the insertion of said pipes
ought to be postponed till the navigation was clear; 'that in January,
1832, the said pipes were inserted, and the said boat being completely equipped for her voyage, left Baltimore for Washington, as
soon as the state of the ice made it practicable to attempt that
voyage; was again stopped by the ice, and obliged to put in at Aitnapolis, whence she proceeded to Washington as soon as the ice
left it practicable to, recommence 'and accomplish the voyage, and
arrived at Washington on the 6th February, 1832, and was, the
next day, placed by defendant on said route; that during the whole
of the period from the first stopping of the navigation as aforesaid,
until the said 6th February, the defendant had abandoned the said
ro'tt to -Potomac -creeki and. prosecuted the hind route from Washington to Fredericksburg.
2. That it was known to and understood by plaintiffs, at the time
the contract in question was made, and was a matter of notoriety,
that as soon as the navigation should be closed by ice, the United
States mail from Washington to Fredericksburg would have to be
transported all the way by land carriage, instead of being transported by steamboat to Potomac creek, and thence by land to
Fredericksburg ; and that the said steamboat Franklin would not be
required by defendant, and could not be used under said contract
wh~en the navigation should be closed.
3. That it was conmunicated to the plaintiffs by defendant, or his
agent, before the time of making said contract, that the defendant intended to keep said steamboat in use under said contract, so long as
the navigation remained open, and no longer.
To the admissibility of which evidence the said plaintiffs by their
counsel objected, and the Court refused to permit the same to go to
the jury; but, at the instance of plaintiffs, gave the following instruction, viz. :_
That if the jury shall believe, from the evidence aforesaid,.that
the said defendant did, on the 19th day of November, 1831, write
to said plaintiffs the §aid-paper of that date, bearing his signature,
and that said plaintiff did accept the same by the said paper of the
sama date, and that said defendant and plaintiffs did respectively

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

93

[Bradley vs. The Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Steam Packet Company.]

write to each other the papers bearing date the 5th and 6th of December, 1831, and that the said steamboat Sydney did in fact first
arrive in the Potomac rivei on the 6th February, 1832, and was
placed on the route to Potomac creek, mentioned in the said evidence, on the 7th February, 1832 ; that then the said plaintiffs are
entitled to recover, under said contract so proved as aforesaid, at the
rate of thirty-five dollars per diem, from the said 20th November,
1831, to the said 6th of February, 1832, both inclusive.
To which refusal, by the Court aforesaid, to admit the evidence
so offered by the, said -defendant, a5 also to the granting by the
Court of the said instruction aforesaid, so prayed for by the said
plaintiffs, the said defendant by his counsel excepted.
The case was argued by Mr. I. H. Bradley and Mr. Jones, for the
plaintiff in error; and by Coxe for the defendants.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error maintained that the evidence
offered on his part, and rejected by the Circuit Court, ought to have
been admitted, and that it imported a 'full defence to -the action ;
and that the terms of the instruction from the Court to fhe jury were
in other respects erroneous and untenable, upon the data assumed
in the instruction itself.
The hiring of the Franklin was from'day to day. The contract.
was made under the known: circumstances of the case; and was so
understood by all the parties to it. The purpose for which the boat
was hired was to convey the mail, for the conveyance of which the
p1aintilt -in error ua&-the aotractcx and it.had reference to two
circumstances, viz.: one expressed, that the Syciney snouid be in a
condition to be placed on the'r6ute, for which it was known she
was preparing; the other, equally well understood, that the interruption and prevention of the running of the'steamboat, by the ice
in the Potomac, would oblige the eontractor to convey the mail by
land; in which ease, as the boat could no longer be used, the hiring
would cease.
The evidence offered by the Plaintiff in error, was to explain, not
to contradict the written contract. It was to show what the'route
fox which the boat was employed was; and that the plaintiff could
only use the boat while the river-was navigable. It was to show
that after the river was closed, the mail was transported by land.'
Such evidence is admissible by the rules of law. Cited 1 Mason's
Rep. 10. 4 Campbell's Nisi Prius. 8 Term Rep. 379. 382. 3 Dal.
Rep. 415. 5 Wheat. 326. 8 Johns. Rep. 116. • 19 Johns. Rep.
313. 2 Barn. and Aid. 17. 11 East, 212. 2 Bos. and Pull. 503.
10 East, 555. 2 Camp. 627.
According to reason, and analogous cases, there can be no doubt
of the propriety and legality of the evidence. We are to look at
the terms of the contract, and to the usage of the business in which
the Franklin was to be employed. She was to be used iu carrying
the mail; and it must have been known that when she could no
longer carry the mail, she would not be employed. The preven-

94

SUPREME COURT.

t[Brad~ey vs. The Washington, Alexandria, "nd Gcorgetown Steam Packet Company.]

lion li ,riausesnot within the control'of either party, would excuse
both,from the perfbrmance of the contract.
lie who hires, is to have the enjoyment and use of the thing hired.
If the hiring is for a specific purpose, the purpose must be accomplished. In this case the hiring was for a public, notorious purpose; and it was well known and well understood, that on certain
events occurring, the Franklin would be no longer employed.
.Was it an engagement which was to depend for its determination
solely on theSydney's being placed on the route. This would have
compelled the plaintiff in error to pay for the Franklin to the end
of time, if the Syadney had been burned, or had not been capable of
proceeding on the route. The length to which this position, would
extend proves its error.
Coxe, for the defendants in error, contended, that the :engagement
to hire the Franklin, was to continue until the happening of a particular event; until the Sydney should be fit to take her place on the
route. The suspension of the performance of the boat, could be
but temporary; and this was one of' the contingencies to which the
plaintiff in error had subjected himself by the contract. There is
nothing to distinguish this case from the case where an embargo has
interposed to suspend the voyage of a ship,
' The evidence was properly excluded. The contract was express, plain, and simple; and did not require the testimony. No
difficulty existed as to the meaning of the terms used in the agreemeint. ",The route," was well ,understood., It was not a mail
route only, but it was used by the plaintiff in,error for the conveyance of passengers; and this was one pf the objects of the contract.
It was on these principles the Circuit Court proceeded in the case.
Mr. Justice BARBOUR delivered the opinion of the Court.This case is brought before us by a writ of error to a judgment
of the Circuit Court of the. District of Columbia, for the county of
Washington.
It was an action of assumpsitf brought by the defendants in error,
against the plaintiff in error, to recover a sum claimed for the hire
of the steamboat Franklin.
The claim was founded upon a written contract, concluded between the parties, by the following correspondence :-On the 19th
of November, 1831, the plaintiff in error wrote to the defendants
in error, a note, of which the following is a copy: "I agree to hire
the steamboat Franklin until the Sydney is placed on the route, to
commence to-morrow, 20th instant, at ($35) thirty-five dollars per
day, clear of all expenses other than the wages of Captain Nevitt.
W. A. Bradley."
i
To this note, W. Gunton, as president of the company, replied
on the same day, in the following words: "On the part of the
Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Steam Packet Company,
I agree to the terms Offered by William A. Bradley, Esq., for the

JANUARY TERM, 1889.

95

[Bradley vs. The Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Steam Packet Company.1

use of the steaui boat Franklin, until the Sydney is placed on the
route to Potomac creek, which is thirty-five dollars per day, clear
of all expenses, other than the wages of Captain Nevitt, which are
to be paid by our Company."
Upon the trial qf the cause, on issue joined, upon the plea ot non
assumpsit, a bill of exceptions was taken by the defendant; from
which it appears that the plaintiffs in the Court below, having
given in evidence the correspondence already stated, further-gave
in evidence, a note, signed by William A. Bradley, dated December the 5th, 1831, addressed to Pishey Thompson, requesting him
to advise the, president, and directors of the Steam Packet Company, that the navigation of the Potomac being closed by ice, they
had that day commenced carrying the mail by lapd, under their
winter arrangement; and had, therefore, no further 6coasion for the
steamboat Franklin, which was then in Alexandria, in charge of
Captain Nevitt; and offering to pay the balance due for the use of
the Fianklin, on the presentation of a bill, and receipt therefor; and
also a letter from W. Gunton, addressed to Wm.A. Bradley, dated
the 6th December, 1831, in which, after stating that the letter of the
fifth, from Bradley to Thdmpson, had been submitted to the board
of directors of the company, he informed him, that the board
could not admit his right to terminate his 'agreement, on the grounds
which he had stated in his note to-Thompson; and that they regarded it as being still in full force, and the boat as being in his
charge. The plaintiff also proved, that the steamboat Sydney was
not placed on the route until thq.7th of February, 1832 ; that the
Sydney belonged to the defendant, and that she was not finished so
as to be al, to start from Baltimore, until the 25th of January.
And thereupon, the plaintiffs claimed the hire of the steamboat
Franklin from. the 20th of November, 1831, to the 6th of February,
1832, seventy-nine days, at thirty-five dollars per day; allowing,
credit for three hundred and fifty dollars, paid by the defendant, and
leaving a balance of $2,415.

It appears from the bill of exceptions, that after the plaintiff had.
closed his evidence, the defendant, amongst other things, offered to
prove, that he for several.years had. been, and then was, contractor
for the transportation of the mail, from Washington to Fredericksburg; that the customary route of said mail was by steamboat
from Washington to the Potomac creek, thence by land to Fredericksburg, and that passengers were also transported on that
route; that he kept an establishment of horses and stages, for the
transportation of the said- mail all the way by land from Washington to Fredericksburg, at seasons when the navigation of steamboats
was stopped by ice; and had been obliged for a considerable portion of every winter, during the time he had been so employed in
the transportation of the mail, to use his said stages and horses, for
the transportation of the mail, all the way by 1nd to Fredericksburg, in the mean time laying up his steamboat; that just before
the date of the contract, the defendant's own steamboat, usually

96

SUPREME COURT.

[Bradley vs. The Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Steam Packet Company.]
employed on said route, had been disabled, and the defendant was
at the time, about completing a new boat called the Sydney, which
had been built at Washington, and sent round to Baltimore for the
purpqse of being fitted with her engine and other equipments; that
in January, 1832, the Sydney, being completely equipped, left Baltimore for, Washington, as soon as the state of the ice made it practicable to attempt the voyage, was stopped by ice, and obliged to
put in at-Annapolis, whence she proceeded to Washington, as soon
as the ice left it practicable; arrived at Washington on the 6th of
February, 1832, and was an the next day placed by defendant on
the route; that on the 5th of December, 1831, Captain Nevitt, the
commander of the Franklin, refused to go on the said route of the
defendant, in consequence of the ice then formning in the river, unless he was directed to do so by the plaintiffs ; that upon, application
to the' president of the company, he directed the captain to proceed
as required, and obey the orders of the defendant; that the captain
did then proceed on the route, and returned as far as Alexandria,
where he stopped, and sent up the mail by land, and although required by defendant's agent, refused to come up to Washington with,
the said boat, in consequence of the ice which had formed in the
river; and that the said boat lay at Alexandria, frozen up in the
harbor, from that time to the 5th of February, 1832; that it was
matter of notoriety, and known to and understood by the plaintiffs,
at the time the contract in question was made, that as soon as the
navigation should be closed by the ice, the United States mail from
Washington to FrederiCksburg would have to be transported all
the way by land carriage, instead of being transported hy steamboat to Potomac creek, and thence by land to Fredericksburg ; and
that the steamboat Franklin would not be required by defendant,
and could not be used under said contract, when the navigation
should be closed.
•The Court refused to permit the evidence thus offered by the dofendaht to go to the jury. And- then, on the motion of the plaintiffs, instructed, the jury, that if they believed from the evidence,
that the defendant wrote to the plaintiffs the paper of the 19th November, 1831, and that the plaintiff accepted the offer, by the same
date, and that plaintiffs and defendant respectively wrote. to each
other the papers bearing date the 5th and 6thDecember,1831,and that
the steamboat Sydney did in fact first! arrive in the river Potomac
on the 6th February, 1832, and was placed on the route to Potomac
creek, on the 7th of February, 1832, that, then the plaintiffs were
eiffitled to recover, under the contract so proved, at the rate of
thirty?-five dollars per diem, from the 20th of November, 1831, to
the 6th of February, 1832, both inclusive.
The questions then arising upon this record, are: first, whether
the Court erred in refusing to permit the evidence offered by thV
defendant to go to the juiry? And, secondly, whether they erred
in giving the instruction to the jury which they did give, at.the in"stance of the plaintiffs?

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

97

[Bradley vs. The Washington Alexandria, and Georgetown Steam Packet Company.]

As to the first question. It is a principle recognised and acted
upon by all Courts of justice, as a cardinal rule in the construction
of all-contracts, that the intention of the parties is to be inquired
into; and if not forbidden by law, is to be effectuated. But the
law has laid down certain rules, declaring by what kind of proof
in any given case this intention is to be ascertained.
Amongst these rules, a leading one in relation to written con-.
tracts, to which class the one in question belongs, is this: That extrinsic evidence is not admissible to explain a patent ambiguity;
that is, one apparent on the face of the instrument: but that it is
admissible to explain a latent ambiguity; that is, one not apparent
on the face of the instrument, but one arising from extrinsic evidence ; for this is but to remove the ambiguity by the same kind of
evidence as that by which. it is created. The rule thus stated seems
to be in itself quite plain and intelligible, and yet much difficulty
has arisen in its -application. The illustration most usually given of
the operation of this rule in the admission of extrinsic evidence, iq
that of a description of a devisee, or of an estate, in a will, where
it turns out that there are two persons, or two estates, of the same
name and description. These, however, are put, not as measuring
the extent of the rule, but as exemplifying its application; and all
other cases within the scope of the princ iple are, in like manner,
open to explanation, by the same kind of evidence.
Accordiugly it is laid down, in a very accurate writer on the subject of evidence, 3 Starkie,1021, that extrinsic parol evidence is admissible to give effect to'a written instrument, by applying it to its
proper subject matter.
Let us examine some of the many cases which have been decided
upon the subject of the admissibility of this evidence, in relation to
written instruments.
In the first place, wherever there is a doubt as to the extent of
the subject devised by will, or demised, or sold, it is matter of extrinsic evidence to show what is included under the description, as
parcel of it. Accordingly, in 1 Term Rep. 701, Buller, Judge, said,
whether parcel or not, of the thing demised, is always matter of
evidence. So where a grantor in a deed described the premises, as
the farm on which he then dwelt, this was held to be a latent ambiguity, which might be explained by evidence aliunde; and evidence was admitted, that a particular piece of land, claimed under
the deed, was at the time of the grant in a state of nature, unenclosed, and separate from the rest of the farm, and that the grantor
remained in possession, and occupied it as his own till his deathto show that it was notwithin the grant. 4 Day's Rep.-265., "
In 8 John. ,116, the case was this: A, by a written contract,
agreed to receive of B sixty shares of the Hudson Bank, on which
ten dollars per share had been paid, and to deliver B his note for
$667, and ..pay him the balance in cash, and also to pay five per
cent. advaiie 'It was decided that this was a case of latent ambiguity, and f'
he. nominal value of each share being fifty dollars, parol
VoX. XI1.-1
13

98

SUPREME COURT.

[Bradley vs. The Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Steam Packet Company.]

evidence was admitted, to show whether the five per cent. advance
was to be paid on the sum paid in, only, or on the nominal amount.
In 2 Leigh, 630, the principle is laid down by the Court, that
parol evidence is not admissible to vary, contradict, add to, or explain a written agreement ; but in cases of equivocal written agreements, the circumstances under which they were made may be
given in evidence to explain their meaning. In the case of Birch vs.
Depeyster, 1 Starkie's Cases, 210, the charter party stipulated, that
the captain should receive a specific sum, in lieu of privilege and
prinage, and the question was) whether the terms of the contract
excluded all right on the part'of the captain to use the cabin for
the carriage of goods, on his own account. Gibbs, Chief Justice,
saidl:, evidence may be received to show the sense in which the mercantile part of the nation use the term privilege, just as you would
look in6 a dictionary to ascertacin the meaning of a word; and it
must be taken to be used by the parties in its mercantile and established sense.
So where a charter party stipulated that a freighter should pay a
certain siBm. per pound, &c., British weight; it was held, that as the
word weight had two meanings, gross and neat, this was such a
latent ambiguity as to warrant the introduction of parol testimony.
1 Nott and M'Cord, 45.-. .
In the case of Peish vs. Dickson, I Mason's Rep. 11, it is said
by the judge, that if by a written contract, a party were to assign
his freight in a particular ship, it seemed to him that parol evidence
might be admitted of the circumstances under which the contract
was made, to ascertain whether it referred to goods on boaad the
ship, or an interest in tha earnings of the ship; or in other words,
to show in what sense the parties intended to use the term.
Nor is this principle at all confined to mercantile contracts; for in
Robertson vs. French, 4 East, 130, Lord Ellenborough, speaking on
this subject, said, that the same rule which applied to all other instruments, applied also to a lolicy of insurance. The admission of
this -kind of, proof has been carried to a great extent too, with a
view to a correct construction of wills. -In the case of Shelton's
executors vs. Shelton, 1 Wash. Rep. 56, it is said, that to discover
the intention of a testator, parol evidence may be admitted of his
circumstances, situation, connection with the legatees, and his transactions between the making of his will and his death. And this
same doctrine is advanced by the same Court, in 3 Hen. and
Mun. 283.

We will close this reference to cases with that of the Mechanic's
Bank vs. The Bank of Columbia, 5 Wheat. 326.' In that case, it
was held by this Court, that where a check was drawn by a person
who was the cashier of an incorporated bank, and it appeared doubtful upon the face of the instrument whether it was an official or a
private act, parol evidence was admissible to show that it was an
official act; and accordingly, many facts and circumstances were
given inI evidence, to prove in What character it was drawn..

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

99

[Bradley vs. The Washington, Alexandria, and Gqorgetown St"an Packet CorMey.]

The cases which we have thus collected together from amongst
the very many which exist, will serve to show in how many aspects
the question of the admissibility of extrinsic evidence in relation to
written contracts has been presented and decided; and in how many
forms, according to the various circumstances of the cases, the principle which we have been considering has been applied. Some,
times it has been applied to deeds, sometimes to wills, and sometimes to mercantile and other contracts. In some cases it has been
resorted to to ascertain which of several persons was intended; in
others, which of several estates. In some, to ascertain the identity
of the subject; in others, its extent. In some, to ascertain the meaning of a term, where it had acquired by use a particular meaning;
where it admitted
in others, to ascertain in what sense it was used,wasthe
same. To
of several meanings. But 'in all the purpose
ascertain by this medium of proof the intenti6n of the parties, where,
without the aid of such evidence that could hot be done; so as to
give a just interpretation to the cbntract.
Without attempting to do what others have said that ri'ey were
unable to acdomplish; that is, to reconcile all the decisions on the
subject; -we think -that we may lay down this principle as the just
result. That in giving effect to a written coptract, by applying it
to its proper subject matter, extrinsic evidence may be admitted to
prove the circumstances under which it was made; whenever, With.:
out the aid of such evidence, such application could not be made in
the particular case.
With this principle in view, we proceed to inquire whether the
evidence offered by the defendant, in this case, ought to have been
received by-the Court.
Now -lkidthe evidence been redeived, it would have disclosed the
following state of facts. That the route mentioned iinthe contract,
was one on which the plaintiff in error transported passengers, and
also the mail: that the steamboat Sydney, mentioned in the contract, was designed to perform this service; and that the Franklin
was wanted for the same purpose: that the Sydney was then at
Baltimore, for the purpose of teing fitted with her engine and equipments: that although the -transportation of passengers and the mail
was carried on, by the plaintiff in error, in a steamboat, whilst the
river was open; yet, when the river was closed. by ice, so that navi,
gation was obstructed, the plaintiff in error then transported passengers and the mail all, the way over land to Fredericksburg: that
when the river was thus obstructed, the plaintiff in error could not,:
and did not, use a steamboat: and that all these facts were known,
to the defendants in error.
We think that this evidence ought to have been received, because
it would have tended to show, by the circumstances under which
the contract was made, what was the intention of the parties:; and, in
the language of the rule which we have laid down, that the contract,
without its-aid, could not be applied to its proper subject matter.
The terms. used in the written contract are, "6for the use of the

100

SUPREME ! COURT.

(Bradley vs. The Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Steam Packet Company.]

steamboat Franklin, until the Sydney is placed on the route to Potomac creek." It is contended, that this amounted to a stipulation
to keep the Franklin in use until the Sydney was placed on the,
route; no matter what length of time may have elapsed before that
was done. Suppose that the Sydney had been accidentally consumed by fire -the day after the hiring of the Franklin, the effect of
this construction would be, to make that hiring coextensive in point
of time with the existence of the Franklin, in a condition for use;
although it is obvious that a temporary hiring only Was in the contemplation" of the parties. Again, suppose the plaintiff in error had
sold the Sydney, and bougjit another boat, and put that other on the
route; the construction contended for would lead to the result, that
the hire of the Franklin would still have continued to have gone on,
indefinitely. If this were so, it must be upon the principle that it
entered into the contemplation of the parties, as a material term of
the contract, that the plaintiff in error should keep the Franklin in
use;not until he ceased to want it by having a steamboat to take its
place, but until the identical steamboat Sydney, and no other, should
take its place. We think that the evidence offered, and rejected by
the Court, would have shown why reference was made to the Sydney being placed on the route; that is, because she-was expected
to be ready for use in a very short time. It would have shown
further, that the defendants in error knew the service for which their
boat was wanted; what was the nature of that service; that whenever the river was obstructed by ice, the Franklin would not be
wanted, because it could not be used, and because then another
mode of transportation was resorted to. From all this it would
have been competent to infer, that the words, "until the Sydney is
placed on the route," were not intended to fix that time as the
period to which the hiring was to continue, at all events, and under
all -6irumstances; but as being referred to, because the Sydney was
then expected to be ready for use in a very short time; and so soon
as she could be used, the Franklin would not be wanted, even although there should be no obstruction to navigation by ice. And,
moreover, it would have been competent to infer, that as the defendants knew why the Franklin was wanted; for what service she, was
wanted; the character of that service, that is, that it would cease
when she could not be used, by reason of the river being closed
with ice: that, therefore, the real intention of the parties, to be
derived from the written contract and the parol evidence taken together, was, a hiring and letting to hire, for so long a time as the
boat could be used, that is, until the navigation was obstructed;
subject to being terminated at any previous time, when the Sydney
was ready to take her place. We think that the rule of law, which
admits extrinsic evidence for the purpose of applying a written contract to its subject matter, justifies its admission, beyond the mere
designation of the thing, or, corpus, if we may so express it, on
which the contract operates, and extends so far as to embrace the
circumstances which accompany the transaction; when, without the

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

101

[Bradley vs. The Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Steam Packet Company.]

aid of those circumstances, the written contract could not be applied.
to its proper subject matter.
This principle is illustrated by the cases which we have before,
referred to. TAke, for example, the case cited from 1 Mason, 11.
That was assumpsit for a balance alleged to be due on consignments. In that case, parol evidence was received of the circumstances under which a contract was made, which contained this
clause relating to the plaintiff's goods, viz., "On which goods' Mr.
D. (the d~fendant in the case) has advanced me $5,833, for which
amount he will hold for reimbursement, on the amount and net proceeds of the sales of said goods, which are only considered answerable, for said amount advanced, as per our agreement ;" for the pur-'
pose .of showing, whether it was intended to waive any personal
claim on the plaintiff, and to restrict the defendant's security,. for the
repayment of the advance, to the goods only; or was meant merely
to exempt the goods of the shippers, on freight, from being included
as a security for the advance on the plaintiff's goods.
So we have seen, in the case from 2 Leigh, 630, the proposition
is stated, in terms, that in equivocal written agreements the circumstances under which they were made may be given in evidence, to
explain their' meaning; and, accordingly, in that case, the judges
rely upon the circumstances as disclosed by the parol evidence, in
comexion with a written promise of indemnity, in deciding on its
legal effect.
We could suggest many cases which we think would illustrate
this principle, and prove, that from the mnecessity of the case, and
consistently with the rules of law, the circumstances under which a
written contract is made, must be open to proof by extrinsic evidence, in order t6 ascertain the intention of the parties, and thus
correctly interpret it. Suppose that during the late war, a person
had been engaged, by contract, to transport munitions of war to the
army; that, for that purpose, he had hired a steamboat of another,
and had signed a written agreenent, by which he engaged to take
good care of the boat; suppose that, whilst he was engaged in this
transportation, the boat had been destroyed by the enemy, as it
might rightfully have been by reason of the hostile character impressed upon it; that, thereupon, a suit had been brought by the
person who let it to hire, upon the stipulation toi take good-care of
the boat. Can it be doubted, that it would have been competent
for the defendant to have proven, that he was a contractor with the
government to transport munitions of war; that he had hired the
boat for that express purpose; and that these facts were known to
the other party, so as to show the intention and understanding of
the parties as to the kind of danger to which the boat wotild unavoidably be exposed, -inperforming the very service for which it
was hired.
We will state only one case more, founded on the suggestion of
Mr. Chief Justice Ellsworth, in a note to 3 Dallas, 421. Suppose a,
12

102

SUPRfEME

UOU

[Baolley vs. The Washington, Aixandria, and Geoietown fteaM Pwket Company.]

inan signs a written agreement iii these words, viz., -"I will take
your ship John." May not the party, as the Chief Justice asked, go
beyond the note, to explain,.by existing circumstances, the meaning
of the word take; which, accordingly as the circumstances might.
be one Way or another, might equally embrace a purchase or a
charter party?
All the cases which we have cited, in which extrinsic evidence
has been received, and, those which we have supposed, in which we
think that it would be- admissible, proceed -on one principle only,
and can only be justified upon that principle. And that is this: that
the rule which admits extrinsic evidence, for the purpose of applying a written contract to its proper subject matter, extends beyond
the mere designation of the thing on which the contract operates;
and embraces within its scope the circumstances under which the
contract concerning that thing was made; when, without the aid of
subh extrinsic evidence, such application of the written contract to
its proper subject matter could not be made. Hence Mr. Starkie,
in his third volume on evidence, 1021, after having laid down the
principle, that extrinsic parol evidence is admissible to give effect to
a written instrumenit, by applying it to its proper subject matter;
adds, "and also as ancillary to the latter object, (that is, the application to its proper subject matter,) for the purpose, in some instances, of explaining expressions used in a peculiar sense, and of
annexing customary incidents," &c. ,
Let us take a case under each branch of this rule; and by this
exemplification, we shall more dearly see the operation of the rule
itself, and the very decided bearing which it has upon this case.
Thh As to the first branch, as to parol evidence f6r the purpose
of eqxptining expressions used in a peculiar sense. Let us take
the case before cited, where the question was as to the legal effect
of a written contract, to receive a stipulated sum in lieu of privilege ant primage.: in other words, what was the meaning of these
terms? Parol evidence was received to show the sense in which
the mercantile part of the nation used the word privilege; and why?
$eCause, the real question was not what was the meaning of the
word privilege in. general if that had been the question, it would
have been a patent ambiguity, and parol evidence would have been
clearly inadmissible: but the real question was, what was the meaning of the wor4 privilege, as used in that contract; it being a word
which had acqtlired in the mercantile world a peculiar meaning,
that meaning must be inquired into, by parol evidence, to get at the
intention of.the parties, as it was a mercantile contract. Thus, it
will be seen, that it was necessary to go into the mercantile sense
of the word, that being the sense in which it was used in the case
stated; in order to,apply the written contract to its proper subject
matter. Accordingly, Mr. Starkie, in his book on evidence, 1033,
otates that to be the reason why evidence is admissible to prove the
special and peouliar sense iA which a word, is understood.

JA.ARY TERM, 1839.

103

(Bradley w. The Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown 8team Packet Company.]

Now, let us take a case to exemplify the second branch of the
rule, as to annexing customary incidents. The case of Senior vs.
Armitage, will illustrate the second branch of 'this: rule, that of the
admission of parol evidence, to annex customary incidents. In that
case it was held, that a custom for an away-going tenant to provide
work and labour, tillage and sowing, and all materials for the
same, in his away-going year, the landlord making him a reasonable compensation, is not excluded bk an express written agreement between the landlord and tenant, which is consistent with such
a custom. Now, here proof of the custom was considered as necessary to apply the -contract to its proper subject matter. So in the
two cases which we have supposed of the steamboat, and the ship;
we think the extrinsic evidence which we have mentioned would
be admissible, because the question would not have begn the meaning of the stipulation to take proper care of the boat, in the one
case, and to take the ship in the other .in the general sense of these
expressions; but what was the meaning of proper care,-as to that
steamboat, and of the word take, as to that ship, under the circumstances which attended the respective contracts concerning them:
neither a steamboat in the one case, nor a ship in the other, was the
proper subject matter of the contract, but each of them, in connexion, with its accompanying circumstances; in other words, that
steambodt, under the circumstances under which it was hired; and
that ship, under the circumstances under which it was taken.
And so in the case before 'is, upon the same principle, the subject
matter of the contract was not merely the steamboat Franklin, but
the steamboat Franklin under the circumstances under which it
was hired. ,The parol evidence then, in this case, was admissible;
because without its aid, the written contract could not be applied
to its proper subject matter: and, therefore, it was proper to prove
the circumstances attending the transaction. Having thus stated
our opinion to .be, that evidence ought to have been received to
prove the facts stated in the bill of exceptions on the part of the
defendants ;..it follows as a consequence, that the Court below erred,
in giving to the jury the instruction which they did give, at the instance of the plaintiffs in the Circuit Court.
We think, therefore, that the judgment is erroneous, and must be
reversed with costs. And a venire facias de.novo is awarded; with
instructions, that upob the next trial, the Court shall receive- parol
evidence, to prove the facts stated in the bill of exceptions, to have
been offered to be proved by: the defendant, at the former trial:
except the fact of the communication made to the plaintiff, by the
defendant, or his agent, before the time of making the contract, that
the defendant intended to keep the steamboat Franklin in use under
the contract, so long as the navigation remained open, and no
longer: and with the further instruction to the Court, not "to give
the jury the instruction stated in the exception to have been Riven
at the former trial.

SUPREME COURT.
(Bradley vs. The Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Steam Packet Company.]

Mr. Justice THOMPSON.
I have not been able to concur in the opinion of a majority'of the
Court in this case. I admit, in the fullest extent, the rule, that
parol evidence is admissible to explain a latent ambiguity. But I
cannot perceive any ambiguity in the contract in this case, requiring the application of thit rule. The contract is dated the !9th of
November, 1831, and was for the hire of the steamboat Franklin,
to be placed on the route from Washington to Potomac creek, until
the Sydney should be placed on the route ; and to commence on
the day after the date of the contract, at the rate of thirty-five dollars per day, clear of all expenses, other than the wages of the captain, which were to be paid by the company. The only question
in the case is, as to the admissibility of the parol evidence offered
on the trial. I think it was properly rejected -by the Court.
What~ver related to any conversations, or negotiations on the subject, previous to the consummation of the contract, were merged in
the final conclusion of the, contract; according to the well-settled
rule of law. And whatever passed between the parties, after the
contract was concluded, was also inadmissible; bec'ause it tended to
vary the contract, and substitute another for that which.had been
concluded between them. The contract was for the use of the
Franklin, without any specified limitations as to time, It was to
continue until the Sydney was placed on the route. The Sydney
was owned-by Mr. Bradley, and Was at the time the contract was
entered into, at Baltimore, for the purpose of being fitted with her
engine, and other equipments necessary to complete her. The
time, therefore, for which the Franklin was to be employed, depended entirely upon the Sydny's being placed upon the route. And
this was at the election of Mr. Bradley: the boat was his, and the
repairs or equipments were under his directions, and could not be
hastened by the owners of the Franklin; and they had it not in
their power, to put an end to the contract, but were bound to
keep their boat ready for the use of Mr. Bradley, until the Sydney
was placed on the route. It is not at all probable from the date of
the contract, about the middle.of November, that either prty anticipated the freezing of the river so early as it did; or some provision
would have been made in the contract for such event. The loss resulting from such an unexpected and temporary obstruction by
the ice, ought to fall on the party who is chargeable with the delay
in placing the Sydney on the route-and that was Mr. Bradley.
The boat was his; and the placing her on the route was at his election, and of -course at his risk.
Mr. Justice CATRON.

The contract given in evidence to sustain the action below is free.
from any ambiguity on its face; and the question is, can oral evidence be resorted to-first, to raise an ambiguity, by showing thew
objects of, and cirtumnstances that lead to, the contract; and second.
to explain the ambiguity created by the oral evidence ,

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

105

[Bradley vs. The Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Steam Packet Company.]
I thiik no such ambiguity, by extrinsic andinferior evidence can
be created, thereby to open the contract to explanations and additions inconsistent with its-face.
Nor caff oral evidence be called in to explain the ambiguity inferred from the circumstances and unexpressed intentions, in reference to which the parties are supposed to have contracted. Their
entire meaning is taken to be in the Writing. 3 Stark. Evid.
999, 1000.
By this means new and independent stipulations are sought, as I
apprehend, to be added, dehors the written agreement, varying its
terms plainly expressed; so that it may be made to operate different
ways, according to the explanatory evidence. This case well-illustrates. the effect of the doctrine. Had the ice not closed the 'river,
thedi Mr. Bradley would have had no excuse: this is matter of
proof. Had the Sydney not been repaired, then he would have had
no excuse: This. is also matter of proof. Had the steamboat eompany established that they in previous winters took their boat, the
Franklin, out of the Potomac, after the ice formed in this-river, and
run her in other waters, not subject to ice; and that Mr. Bradley
prevented them from taking the usual course until the boat was
frozen up in the river; then all equity and justice would have been
on the side of the plaintiffs below. Hence-the rights of the parties
on another trial will not depend on the written contract; but it will
operate according to the oral proof, and the conditions thus inserted
into it. *Itis clear, the oral evidence, and not the writing, must produce the definite effect.
I hold, nothing can be added to a written agreement, unless there
be a clear subsequent, independent agreement, varying the former;
but not where it is matter passing at the same time with the written
agreement,
Truly, where the terms of the written instrument are clear, oral
evidence is used to point the application to this or that subject matter. It acts in aid of the written 'tlstrulnent, to give it the intended
application; not to add to its terms, b7 inserting new conditions and
limitations in, the contemplation of the parties, and to be inferred
from extrinsic circumstances, existing, when the agreement was
made.
To control its construction by oral proof of the objects of the contracting parties, and the purposes of the contract,-would lead to the
dangerous result of construing every writing not by its face, not by
the language employed; but by matters extrinsic, variant in each
case, as human' testimony should make it: the construction, of necessity, to be determined by the jury, and not by the Court, whose
usual pfavince it is to construe written agreements.
The controlling extrinsic circumstance invoked as an element to
construe the-contract before the Court, is, that the boat Franklin was
hired to carry the mail; and that so soon as the ice prevented her
from running, it must be inferred the object of Mr. Bradley (at the
date of the contract) was, to surrender the boat, and carry the mail

106

3UPREME COURT.

[Bradley va, The Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Steam Packet Company.]

in stages. As to this, the agreement is wholly silent, and the oral
proof may contradict the assumption; -if sO no ambiguity will be
raised by the proof, as a foundation for further explanation. Suppose it to be proved that the intention of the plaintiff in error was
to carry passengers; and to have the entire transportation on the
Potomac, at the opening and close of the session of Congress: and
that he was willing to poy the priceper day for the Franklin, for
the sake of the monopoly, and the power to increase the fare ;-that he bought out a rival, risking the chances of the season, and
the number of passengers: Or suppose it be proved that Mr. Bradley had (at the date of the agreement) taken his horses off of the
stage line, and had no reliance to carry the mail but this boat-and
,pat e designed to keep her until he supplied her place, even should
the river cloe for a time. In these events the written contract
would be construed to mean, as the oral evidence proved Mr. Bradley intended when he made it.- He had the jowcr to retain the
Franklin as long as he chose to keel) the Sydney out of the river;
throughout the whole spring and summer of 1832-and may have
so intended, had the winter been an open one, and the' river not
obstructed.
If Mr. Bradley had the power to elect according to a reserved intention,'and put an end to the agreement; so had the other side, on
a similar reservation, not expressed, but to be inferred from circumstances existing at the time, and in reference to which the parties
are supposed Ao have contracted.
I think'no oral proof could be let in to raise an ambiguity, nor to
explain it- when raised; and that in this case, as in all others, the
parties must abide by their agreement, fairly made, and plainly ex..
pressed.
Mr. Justice STonY.

I had not intended to express any dissent from the opinion of the
Court in this case. But as my silence might now,under the circumstances, lead to the conclusion that I concurred in that opinion,
I wish to state that I concur in the opinions delivered by my Brothers, Catron and Thompson, and for the reasons given by them.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued
b aunsel: - On consideration whereof it is ordered and adjudged
bjr this Court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be,and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs; and that this
cause be, and the: same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to award a venire facias de novo.

