JANUARY TERM, 1839.

DwGWIS

AND COMPANY vs. EDwAR,

B.

205

CHURCH.

The plaintiffs in an action on the second set of a foreign bill of exchange, which was protested for non-acceptance, with the protests thereto attached, can recover, without producing the first of the same sbt, or accounting for its non-production.

ON a certificate of division from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Mississippi.
This was an action of assumpsit founded on the second of a
foreign bill of, exchange, by the endorsee against the endorser, for
non-acceptance. The plaintiffs declared upon the "second" of the set
of exchange, which "second of the set" was protested for nonacceptance; and the same, with 'the protest thereto attached, was
read in evidence to the jury. Whereupon a question arose, whether the plaintiffs could recover upon the said second of exchange,
without producing the first of the same set, or accounting, for its
non-production; upon which the judges were opposed in opinion.
Whereupon the same was ordered to be certified to the Supreme
Court of the United States.
The case was sifbmitted to the Court, on a printed argument, by
Mr. 0. Hoffman, for the plaintiff. No counsel appeared for the
defendant.
Mr. Hoffman stated:The only question that arises is, whether the plaintiff can recover
upon the second of exchange, without producing the first of the same
set, or accounting for its non-production.
These bills are so many securities for the same debt, and so
drawn for convenience, and to avoid accident. Where one is paid,
the one so paid has dischdrged the duty of the whole, and the others
cease to have legal existence. They contain this very condition on
their face; and show that each has a full operation, dependent only
upon the rest not having discharged their office.
If one is sufficient to present, so as to authorize the holder to demand payment, it would seem to follow, as a matter of course, that
that which gave the right to demand payment or acceptance would
be sufficient to support an action for non-payment or non-acceptance.
If the presentation of one is sufficient to create a liability, that one
must be sufficient to support an action founded on such liability.
Whatever gives the right, must be enough to sustain the remedy.
Not a single case has been found where the objection has been
taken or decided by the Courts, although the books abound with
cases where the objection would have applied. The only exception
to the general rule that either one of the set can perform the office
of all the set is, that the particular bill protested must be the one
declared upon and given in evidence, in order to save the drawer
or endorser from, liability to the person who may ha interfered,
VOL. XIII.-S

SUPREME COURT.
[Downes et al. vs. Church.)

supra protest, for his honour. Chancellor Kent says: "If several
parts, as is-usual, of a bill of exchange be drawn, they all contain a
condition to be paid, provided the others remain unpaid, and they
collectively amount to one bill, and a payment to the holder of either
is good, and a payment of one of a set is payment of the whole.
"The drawer or endorser to be charged on non-acceptance or
non-payment is entitled to call for the identical bill or No. of the set
protested, before he is bound to pay, and it would be sufficient to
produce it at the trial or account for its absence; as, without it, he
might be exposed to claims from some bona fide holder or person,
who had paid it, supra protest, for his honour." 3 Kent's Com. 109.
The same doctrine was still more strongly recognised by the
Court in Kenworthy vs. Hopkins, 1 Johnson's Cases, 107; which
case the Court will find cited and commented upon in Wiles vs.
Whitehead, 15 Wendall, 527.
In this latter cise, the Court decided that the set actually protested
must be produced in a suit brought by endorsee against endorser,
to guard against a subsequent claim by an acceptor, supra protest.
The Court say "that the identical bill protested must be presented.
"It is true, as a general rule, that payment of one of the set. is
payment of-the whole; but if the drawer or endorser is entitled to
call for the identical bill dishonoured, before he is obliged to pay it;
the omission to do so would subject him to the charge of negligence,
and make him accountable to any person who had accepted it for
his honour.
"His security, therefore, requires that he should be allowed to
call for the bill protested, before a recovery is permitted to be had
against him."
There is a dictum in Starkie, that "in case of foreign bills drawn
in sets, both the sets should be produced." 2 Starkie on Evidence,
142. But no authorities are cited to support this, and it is in hostility to the reasoning of the authorities to. which I have referred.
Mr. Justice STOnY delivered the opinion of the Court:This is the case of a certificate of division of the judges of the
Circuit Court, for the district of Mississippi. The action was assumpsit, founded on the second part of a foreign bill of exchange, by
the endorsee agaihst the endorser for non-acceptance. The plaintiffs declared upon the second of the set of exchange, which second
of the set was protested for non-acceptance) and the same, with the
protest attached thereto, was read to the jury. Whereupon a question arose, whether the plaintiffs could recover upon the said second
of exchange without producing the first of the same set, or accounting for its non-production; upon which question the judges were
opposed in opinion. And the same has been accordingly certified
to this Court under the act of Congress.
We are of opinion that the plaintiffs are entitled to recover upon
the second of the set without producing the first, or accounting for
its non-production. No authority has been referred to which is

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

207

[Downes et al. vs. Church.]

exactly in point, nor are we aware that the question has ever been,
judicially decided. Mr. Starkie, in his work on Evidence, (part iv.
p. 228, 1st edit. has said, "In the case of a foreign bill drawn in
sets, both the sets should be produced." But for this proposition
he has cited no authority. The question, must, then, be decided
upon principle. The object of drawing a foreign bill in sets is for
the convenience of the payee, or other holder, to enable him to forward the same for acceptance by different conveyances, and thus to
guard against any loss, by accident or otherwise, which might
occur if there were but a single bill. But froma the very frame of
the set, if cne is paid or discharged by the acceptor, or other party
liable on, it, he is ordinarily discharged from the others; since each
par't contains a condition, that it shall be payable .only when the
others remain unpaid. Now, when one of the set is protested for
non-acceptance, and due notice is given to an endorser, and on the
trial of an action brought against him by the endorsee, the same bill
of the set on which the protest is made is produced, that is prima
facie proof of his being responsible thereon. Either of the set may
be presented for acceptance, and, if not accepted, a right of action
presently arises upon due notice against all the antecedent parties to
the bill, without any others of the set being presented; for it is by
no means necessary that all the parts should be presented for acceptance before a right of action accrues to the holder. Under 'such
circumstances, it is properly a matter of defence on the other side,
to show either that some other bill of the set has. be.en presented
and accepted, or paid; or that'it has beei presenited at an earlier

time and dishonoured, and due notice has not been given; or that
another person is the proper holder, and has given notice of his title
to the party sued; or that some other ground of defence exists
which displaces the prima facie "title made out by the plaintiff. The
law will not presume that the other bills of the set have been negotiated to other persons, merely because they are not produced. And
the endorser is not put to any hazard or peril by the non-production
of them; since, like the acceptor, if he once pay the, bill, without
notice of any superior adverse claim, by a negotiation of another
of the set to another party, he will be completely exonerated. On
the other hand, great inconveniences might arise from compelling
the plaintiff to produce the other parts of the set, or to account for
their non-production ; as he might not be able satisfactorily to prove
that they had not been negotiated, or that they had been lost. In
short, if the plaintiff, before he could recover, were required to produce or to account for all the parts of the set, he would be obliged,
in every case where the bills had been transmitted by different conveyances aLroad, to arm himself with proofs of every stage of their
route and progress, until they should come back again into his hands,
as preliminaries to his right to recover upon their being dishonoured.
Such a requirement would create most serious embarrassments in
all commercial transactions of this sort; and instead of bills drawn
in sets being a public convenience, they would be greatly obstructed

208

SUPREME COURT.
[Downes et al. vs. Church.]

in their negotiability, since the rights and the remedies of the holder
might be materially impaired thereby. We are therefore of opinion,
that the question upon which the judges of the Circuit Court were
opposed, ought to be answererl in the affirmative; and we shall
send a certificate to the Court accordifigly.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Mississippi, and on the point and question on which the judges of the
said Circuit were opposed in opinion, and which was certified to
this Court for its opinion, agreeably to the acts of Congress- in such
case made and provided; and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this, Court, that the plaintiffs
in this case could recover upon the second of a foreign bill. of exchange, which was protested for non-acceptance with the protest
thereto attached, without producing the first of the same set, or accounting for its non-production. Whereupon it is. ordered and
adjudged by this Court, that it be so certified to the said, Circuit
Court 'accordingly.

