JA.NUARY TERM, F83g.

415

CHARLES L. WILLIAMS.VS. THE SUFFOLK INSURANCE COMP4N.

The government

of the United States having insisted, and continuing to inat, throuit'ts
"egular executive authority that the Falkland islands do not constitute any part, of the
dominions within, the sovereignty of Buenos Ayres, and that the seal fisheryat those
islands is a trade free and lawful to the citizens of tho United States, and, beyond the
competency of the Buenos Ayres government to regulate, prohibit, or punish; it is not
competent for a Circuit Court of the United States to inquire into, and ascertain by other
evidence the title of the government of Buenos Ayres to the sovereignty.of the Feelauad
islands.
When the executive branch of the government, which is charged with the foreign ielations
of the United States, shall, in its correspondence with a foreign nation, assume a fact in
regard to the sovereignty of any island or country, it is conclusive on the judicial department.
Where a vessel, insured on a sealing voyage, wa6 ordered by the government of Buns
Ayres not to catch seal off the Faikland islands, and having continued to take seal there
the vessel was seized and condenmed, under the authority of the government of Buenos
Ayres; the government of the United States not having acknowledged, but having denied
the right of Buenos Ayres to the Falkland islands; the insurers were liable to pay for the
loss of the vessel and cargo: the master, in refusing to obey the orders to leave the island,
having acted under a belief that he was bound so to do as a matter of-duty to the
owners, and all interested in the vdyage, and in vindication of the right claimed by the
American government. The master was not bound to abandon the voyage under a
threat or warning of such illegal capture.

ON a certificate of division from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Massachusetts.
This was an action brought by the plaintiff, a citizen of the.state
of Connecticut, against the Suffolk Insurance Company of B6ston,
Massachusetts, to recover a loss, on part of the schooner Harriet,nd part of her cargo, they having been insured by the defendants.
There was a similar action against the defendants to recove-losses
sustained on the., schooner Breakwater and her cargo. Both the
cases were brought from the Circuit Court of Massachusettg, on
certificates of division of opinion of the judges, of the Circuit Court.
The cases were stated in the record as follows -"These were actions of assumpsit on policies of insurance, dated
the 19th of August, 1830, whereby the plaintiff caused to be inisuried
by the defendants for nine per cent. per annum premium, warranting twelve per cen t . ' lost or not lost,' forty-nino hundred and nineteen dollars on fifteen sixteenths of schooner Harriet, and eighteen
hundred and seventy-five dollars on board said vessel, at and from
Stonington, Connecticut, commencing the risk on the 12th day of
August, instant at noon, to the southern hemisphere, with liberty
to stop for salt at the Cape de Verd islands, afid to go round Cape
Horn, and to, touch at all islands, ports, and places for the purpose
of taking seals, and for information and refreshments, with liberty
to put his skins on board of any other vessel or vessels until she
returns to her port of discharge in the United States; it being understood that the value of the interest hereby insured, as it relates
to this insurance, is not to be diminished thereby. It is understood
and agreed; that if the Harriet should not proceed'south-easterly Qf

SUPREME COURT.
CWilliams vs. The Suffolk Insurance Company.]

Cape Horn on a voyage towards the south Shetland islands,, and
there be no loss, then the premium is to be six per centum per
annum, the assured warranting only nine per cent.: vessel valued
at five thousand dollars; outfits valued at two thousand dollars,
"'There was a similar policy underwritten by the defendants for
the plaintiff on the same day, for the like voyage in all respects, of
thirty-five hundred dollats, on the schooner Breakwater, and two
thousand dollars on outfits on board, at the- same premium; the
vessel being valued at thirty-five hundred dollars, and the outfits at
two thousand dollars, upon which, also, an action was brought.
"The declaration upon each policy averred a total. loss, by the
seizure and detention of one Lewis Vernet and other persons, pretending to act by the authority of the government of Buenos Ayres,
with force andarms.
"The causes came on to be heard together, by the Court, upon
certain facts and statements agreed'by the parties; the parties agreeing that the verdict should be rendered by. the jury for the plaintiff,
and for the defendants; according to the opinion of the Court upon
the matters of law arising upon those facts and statements; and
the cause was argued by C. G. Loring for the plaintiff, and by
Theophilus Parsons for the defendants. It appeared from these
facts and statements, that both of the vessels insured were bound
on a sealing voyage, and proceeded to the Falkland islands in pursuance thereof; and were there both seized by one Lewis Vernet,
acting. as governor of those islands, under the appointment and
authority of the government of Buenos Ayres. The Harriet was
seized on the 30th of July, 1831, and was subsequently carried by
the captors to Buenos Ayres; where certain proceedings were had
against her inthe -tribunals, and under the sanction of the government of Buenos Ayres. She has never been restored to the defendants, but has been condemned for being engaged in the seal trade
at the Falkland islands.
"The Breakwater was seized at the islands, on or about the 18th
day of August, 1831, and was afterwards re-captured by the mate
and crew, who remained on board; and was by them brought home
to the United States; and after her arrival was libelled for salvage in
the district Court of Connecticut district, and salvage was awarded
of one-third part of the proceeds of vessel and property.
"Copies of the orders and decrees of the Courts of Buenos Ayres
respecting the seal fisheries, of the appointment, of Vernet as
governor, of the Falkland islands, of the proceedings against the
Harriet, of the correspondence of the American government with
the Buenos Ayrean government, relative to the jurisdiction of the
Falkland islands; were produced and read, de bene esse, in the
case."
The following )ints and questions occurred in the case, on
which the judges oi the Circuit.Court were divided in opinion; and
they were stated and ordered to be certified to, the Supreme Court to,
be finally decidec :-

JANUARY TERM. 1830.

447

[Williams V. The Suffolk Insut'unce Company4.

1. Whether, inasmuch as the Americaa gosAnment has insisted
and does still insist, through its regular executive authority, that-tho
Falkland islands do not constitute any p rt of the dominiohis within
the sovereignty of the government of Auenos Ayres, and that the
seal fishery at those islands is a trade free and lawful to the citizens
of the United States, and beyond the comp'tency 9f the Buenos
Ayrean government to regulate, prQhibit,,'or punish,- it is competent
for the Circuit Court in this cause, to inquire into and ascertain by
other-evidence, the-title of said government df Buenos Ayres to the
sovereignty of the said Falkland islands; and if such evidence satisfies the Court, to dehide against the doctrinesand cla'Ms set up and
supported by the Ameican government on this subject ; or whether
the action of the American government on this iubject i 'bitofing
and conclusive on this Court, as to whom the sovereignty of those
islands belongs.
2. Whether, if the seizure of the Harriet, by the authority oi mtie
Buenos Ayrean government, for carrying on the seal fishery at the
Falkland islands, was illegal and contraryito the law of nations, on
account of the said islands not being within the territorial sovereignty
of the said Buenos Ayrean government, and tne master ofthe Harriet had warning from the government of the said islands under the
government of Buenos Ayres, that he should seize the said Harriet
if she should engage in the seal fishery, and after such warning, the
$aster of the 'Harriet engaged in such seal fishery, and the Harriet
was illegally seized and condemned therefor, the loss by such seizure
and condemnation was a loss for Which the plaintiff is entitled to
recover in this case ; if the master of the Harriet acted, in engaging
in such seal fishery bona fid6, and with a sound and reasonable discretion, and under a belief that he was bound so to do, as a matter
of duty to his owners, and all others interested in'the voyage, and
in the vindication of the rights recognised and claimed by the American government; of whetler he was bound by law to abandon
the voyage under stich a threat and warning of such illegal seizure.
The case was submitted to the Court by Messrs, C. G. Loring
and E. G. Loring for the plaintiff; and -by M Parsons for the
defendants.
The printed argument for the plaintiff contained a full statement
of the case.
Mr. Parsons, for the defendants, contended,1. That the Malvinas are rightfully in possession of Buenos
Ayres; and that historical evidence, and established principles of the,
law of nations show this to be so.
2. That however this may be, the Courts of this country will not
decide this question against Buenos Ayres, unless authorised to do
so by a formal act of our government: Buenos'Ayres being a nation
friendly to us, claiming the Malvinas, ccatainly under colour of right,
and claimiog and exercising that dominion for many years.
53

SUPREME COURT.

418

[Williams vs. The Suffolk Insurance Company.]

3. That there is no such act of our government. An American
sloop of war, (the Lexington, captain Duncan,) arriving at Buenos
Ayres, soon after the seizure of the Harriet and Breakwater,-proceeddd to the Falklands, and broke up the establishmentlby violence.
The government of Buenos Ayres comoplained urgently of this, and
a correspondence ensued, wherein our Consul, and our Charge
d'Affaires at Buenos Ayres, and our Secretary of State, took a part;
but the question remains unsettled between the countries ;-and,
4. By the constitution of this country, it is of vital importance
that our Courts call nothing an act of the government but one
which passes through the forms of the Constitution, and has the
force and sanction of regular enactment. No analogies drawn from
European nations (if any there be) can apply; because the Judiciary
holds no such place, and is intrusted with no such duties in other
nations.
It would seem difficult to doubt, from the historical evidence, and.
the plain principles of territorial and international law, that the
ancient government of Spain, and the government of Buenos Ayres
as their successor, had a right, as owners of thg' islands and the
coast, to regulate the fisheries thereon, and within a reasonable distance of their shores, and that the decrees actually passed are therefore justifiable by the laws of nations; and, consequently, fishing in,
violation of those decrees is an illicit and prohibited trading within
the policy. It follows inevitably that a seizure for that cause is not
protected by the policy, though the condemnation may be informal.
If it be said, that the trespassers upon these islands and their fisheries appear to have been notified and threatened before, and then
permitted to transgress with impunity, and that punishment for the
offencewas therefore unlawful; there is surely an obvious and sufficient answer to this. It is, that after mild means had been carried
so far as to prove them ineffectual, more positive measures were
resorted to. This is a plain and fair statement of the whole case
upon this point; and if the whole testimony were examined, and
the indisputable facts of the ease considered, they would fully con'firm this view. Will the Court then say that forgiveness, with re-.
mewed prohibition and caution, impliesperpetual forgiveness? That
if the first offence, or any single offence, be pardoned by a nation,
or one of its authorities, it shall never be lawful again to punish the
offence; how offen soever it be repeated, or howsoever aggravated
the circumstances by which it-is attended? It can hardly be expected that such a principle as this can receive the sanction of this
Court; for it seems not more repugnant to law and justice, than to
mere humanity.

Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court:Two -actions were commenced by the plaintiffs against the defendant, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the state of
Massachusetts, on policies of insurance dated 19th August, 1830;
whereby the plaintiffs caused to be insured by the defendants, for

JANUARY -TERM, 1839.

419

[Williams vs. The Suffolk Insurance Company.]

nine per centum per annum premium, warranting twelve per centum
lost or not lost, forty-nine, hundred and nineteen dollars on fifteensixteenths of schooner Harriet; and eighteen hundred and seventyfive dollars on board said vessel, at and from Stonington, Connecticut,-commencing the risk on the 12th' August'instant at noon, to the
southern hemisphere; with liberty to stop fcr salt at the Cape.de
Verd islands, and to go round Cape Horn, and to touch at all islands,
ports and places, for the purpose of taking seals, and for informationand refreshments;. with liberty to. put -his skins on board of any
other vessel or vessels, until she returns to her port of discharge in
the United States : it being understood that the value of the interest
hereby intured, as it relates to this insurance, is not to be diminished
thereby, &c.
On the same day there was a similar policy of thirty-five hundred
dollars on the schooner Breakwater; and two thousand dollars on
outfits on board, at the same premium, &c.
And on the trial the following points were raised in the case, on
which the opinions of the judges were opposed, and on which the
case is certified to this Court,
1. Whether, inasmuch as the American government has, insisted,
and does still insist, through its regular executive authority, that the
Falkland islands do not constitute any part of the dominions within
the sovereignty of the government of Buenos Ayres; and that the
seal fishery at those islands is a trade free and lawful to the citizens
of the United States, and beyond the competency of the Buenos
Ayres government to regulate, prohibit, or punish; it is competent
for the Circuit Court-in this cause, to inquire into, and ascertain by
other evidence, the title of said govefnment of Buenos Ayres to the
sovereignty of the said Falkland islands; and if such evidence satisfies the Court, to decide against the doctrines and claims set up. and
_supported by the American government on this subject: or whether
the action of the American.-government on this subject is binding
and conclusive on this Court, as to whom the sovereignty of those
islands belongs..
2. Whether, if the seizure of the Harriet by the authority of the
Buenos Ayrean governmentJor carrying on the seal fishery at the
Falkland islands, was illegal and contrary to the law of nations, on
account of -the said islands not being within the territorial sover ignty of the said Buenos Ayrean government; and the master of the
Harriet had warning from the governor of the said islands under
the government of Buenos- Ayres, that he should seize the saidi
Harriet if she should engage in the seal fishery; and after such
warning the master of the Harriet engaged in the seal fishery, and
the Harriet was illegally seized and condemned therefor; the loss by such seizure and condemnation was a loss for which the plaintiff is entitled to recover in this case, if the master of the Harriet
acted. in engaging in such seal fishery bona fide, and with a sound
and reasonable discretion, and undei a belief that he was bound so
to do as a matter of duty to his owners and all others interested in

420

SUPREME COURT.
[Williams vs. The Suffolk Insurance Compapy.]

the voyage; and in the vindication of the rights recognised and
claimed by the American government: or whether he was bound
by law to abandon the voyage under such a threat and warning of
such illegal seizure.
As the fact is stated inthe first point certified, that there is a controversy between this government -and that of Buenos Ayres,
whether the jurisdiction is rightful, which is assumed to be exercised
over the Falkland islands by the latter.; and that this right is asserted on the one side and denied by the other, it will not be necessary to look into the correspondence between the two governments
on the subject.
To what sovereignty any island or country belongs, is a question
which often arises before Courts in the exercise of a maritime jurisdiction; and also in actions on policies of insurance.
Prior to the revolution in South America, it is known that the
Malvinas, or Falkland islands, were attached to the vice-royalty of
La Plata, which included Buenos Ayres. Arid if this were an open
question, we might inquire whether the jurisdiction over these
islands did not belong to some other part, over which this ancient
vic&royalty extended, and not to the government of Buenos
Ayres: but we are saved from this inquiry by the attitude of our
own government, as stated in the point certified.
And 'can there be any doubt, that when the executive branch of
the government, which is charged with our foreign relations, shall
in its corresp9ndence with a foreign nation assume a fact in regard
to the sovereignty of any island or country, it is conclusive on the
judicial department? .And in this view it is not material to inquire,
nor is it the province of the Court'to determine, whether the executive be right or wrong. It is enough to know, that in the exercise
of his constitutional functions, he has decided the question. Having
done this under the responsibilities which belong to him,' it is obligatory on the people and government of the Union.
If this were not the rule, cases might often arise in which, on the
most important questions of foreign jurisdiction, there would be an
irreconcilable difference between the executiVe and j'udicial departments. By one of these departments, a foreign island or country
might be considered as at peace with the United States; whilst the
other would congider it in a state of war. No well regulated
government has ever sanctioned a principle so unwise, and so destructive of national character,
In the cases of. Foster vs. Neilson, 2 Peters, 253. 307, and Garcia
vs. Lee, 12 Peters, 511, this Court have laid down the rule, that the
action of the political branches of the government in' a matter that
belongs to them, is conclusive.
AId we think in the present case, as the executive, in his message, and in his correspondence with the government of Buenos
Ayres, has denied the jurisdiction which it has assumed to exercise
over the Falkland islands; the fact must be taken and acted on by
this Court as thus asserted and maintained.

JANJARY TERM, 1839.

421

[Williams vs. The Suffolk Insurance Company.]

The decision of the first point materially affects the second, which
turns upon the conduct of the master.
If these islands are not within the jurisdiction of the Buenos
Ayrean government, the power assumed and exercised by Governor
Vernet was unauthorized, and the master was not bound to regard
it. He was not necessarily to be diverted from the objects of his
voyage., and the exercise of rights which belonged ip common to the
citizens of the United States by an unauthorized threat of the
seizure of his Vessel. He might well consider the prohibition of
Vernet as influenced by personal and sinister motives, and would
not be enforced. If the principle were admitted, thai the assured
were bound to regard every idle threat of any individual who might
assume to exerise power, as in this case, it would be most injurious, and in rnany cases destructive, to commeroial rights.
The inquiry is, whether the master, under all the circumstances
of the case, acted in good faith, and with ordinary prudence.
If he acted fraudulently, he was guilty of barratry; and the underwriters are discharged.
In 4 Taunton, 858, Mr. Justice Gibbs, in giving the opinion of
the Court, lays down the true rule. "The'master," says he, "being
asked why he had not British colours and British papers, said, I
cannot have them, because I have not a British register. He stands
on his strict rights. He says, I will do nothing to endanger my
owners; I am a neutral, and I have a right to enter your port. The
master really tommunicated the true facts of the case when she was
searched; and says, I cannot go off, because of my charter-party
The other says: Then I will seize you. We think, then, each party
stands on his strict ights; and we are now to consider the strict
point of law, not the question whether it would have been more
prudent for him to go to Tercera, but whether he acted bona, fide."
And so in the-present case, the question is not whether the master of the Harriet would, not have acted with more prudence had he
yielded to the inhibition of Vernet; but whether, in placing himself
upon his strict rights, he did not exercise a proper discretion.
He Violated no regulation which he was bound to respect. In
touching at the Falkland islands, for the purpose of taking seal he
acted strictly within the limits of his commercial enterprise; and did
not voluntarily incur a risk which should exonerate the insurers,
It was the duty of the master to prosecute his voyage, and attain
the objects of it, for the benefit of his owners: and, idf
doing this,
he was not bound to abandon the voyage by. any threat of illegal
seizure. We think, therefore, that the underwriters are. not discharged from liability, by the conduct of the master, as stated in the
second point.
The other case depending upon the same principles, the same
certificate will be affixed to that case.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the district of MasVOL. XIII.-2 N

422

SUPREME COURT.
(Williams vs. xrhe Suffolk Insurance Company.]

saelmsetts, and on the points and questions on which the judges of
the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which were
certified to this Court for its opinion, agreeably-to the act of Con- gress in such case made ad provided, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this Court, 1st, That,
inasmuch as the American government has insisted and still does
insist, through its regular executive authority, that the Falkland islands do not constitute any part of the dominions within the sovereignty of the government of Buenos Ayres, the action of the American government on this subject is binding on the said Circuit Court,
as to whom the sovereignty of those islands belongs. And, secondly:
That the seizure and condemnation of the Harriet was a loss for
which the plaintifi' is entitled to recover in this case, under the circumstances as stated in the second point certified. Whereupon, it
is ordered and adjudged by this Court that it be so certified to the
said Circuit Court, accbrdingly.

