SUPREME COURT.

JOHN WILCOx AND

OTHERS, VS.

CRESTER HUNT AND OTHERS.

In the District Court of Louisiana, the defendant pleaded the plea of reconvention, which
is authorized by the Code of Practice of Louisiana. The District Court, on the motion
of the plaintiffs, ordered the plea to be stricken off. The Code of Practice of Louisiana
was adopted in Louisiana, by a statute of that state, passed after the act of Congress of
the 26th May, 1824., regulating' the practice of the District Court of the United States
for the eastern district of Louisiana; and the practice according to that code had not
been adopted as part of the rules of practice of the District Court, when the plea was
stricken off. Held, that the plea was properly stricken out.
Where a deed of trust was made to secure the payment of certain promissory notes, in an
action upon the deed the notes may be read in evidence to prove the amount of. the
debt intended to be secured by the deed, without the notes having been assigned by the
payees to the plaintiffs, the trustees-in the deed.
The general rule is, that the allegations in the answer or plea in an action, and the proof,
must agree. Where there were no averments in a plea, to authorize the proof offered
by a defendant, it was properly rejected by the Court.In Louisiana, when a contract having subscribing witnesses to it is proved to have been
made out of the state, the state Courts presume the witnesses reside at the place
where the contract was made, and are not subject to process issued out of those Courts.
They therefore allowed secondary evidence to prove the contrqct. This being the settled
doctrine of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, the District Court of the eastern district of
Louisiana properly admitted evidence of the handwriting of the witnesses to a deed of
trust, which had been executed out of Louisiana, to go to the jury.
There is a material difference between the laws of New York and those of Louisiana, in
relation to the dignity of instruments in writing. -Contracts made before a notary and
two witnesses, called authentic acts, are, by the laws of Louisiana, elevated above all
others. A contract under seal does not appear to be of greater dignity in J ouisiana than
one without seal; and those who sue in the Courts of that state-must abide the consequences of these rules. The validity and interpretation of contracts are to be governed
by the laws of the country where they are made; but the remedy must be according to
the laws of the country whore'the suit is brought.

IN error to the District Court of the United States, for the eastern
district of Louisiana.
Mr. Justice M KiNnEYa
delivered the opinion cf the Court:This case comes netore this Court upon a writ of error to the
District Court ot the United States, for the eastern district of
Louisiana.
The defendants in error commenced their suit by petition in the
Court below, upon a deed, of trust executed by Wilcox, one of the
plaintiffs in error, in the state of New York ; by which he covenanted, among other things, to pay to the defendants in error the
sum of twenty-fiVe thousand two hundred and six dollars and eight
cents, being the amount of certain promissory notes, mentioned and
enumerated in said deed of trust, payable to several persons in the
city of New York. Others, to wit, James B. Hulin, Alfred Hennen,
and E. V. Joprdain, were made defendants to the znit, for the -purpose of subje6ting money in their hands, belonging to Wildox, to the
payment of the debt sued for, according to the mode of proceeding
in Louisiana. Wilcox pleaded a general denial, and the plea of re-

Qonvention, claiming damages of the plaintiffs below for breacles

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

S79

[Wilcox etal.
vs. Hunt ot al.]

on their part of the covenants in the deed of trust, to be set off
against the amount sought to be recovered against him.
At the trial the Court ordered the plea of reconvention to be
stricken out, to which Wilcox excepted. This plea is authorized by
the Louisiana Code of Practice, which 'was adopted by statute subsequent to the passage of the act of Congress of the 26th of May,
1824, regulating the practice in the District Court of the United
States, for the eastern district of Louisiana, and which at the time
of the trial had not been adopted as a rule of practice of that Court.
It being a plea not authorized by-the rules governing the practice
of the Court, it was properly, stricken out.
Three other bills of exceptions were taken at the trial to the
rulings of the Court. By the first, it appears, the plaintiffs offered
to prove the signatures of the defendant Wilcox, and of the plaintiffs to the deed sued on. The defendant, Wilcox, objected to this
evidence; because it appeared by the deed that there were two
subscribing witnesses to it. But the Court overruled the objection,
and admitted the evidence, upon the ground that, as the deed was
executed in the state of New York, it was fairly presumable that
the- subscribing witnesses resided there . and which was a sufficient
reason for letting in secondary evidence to prove the execution of
the deed. When a contract is proved to have been made out of the
state of Louisiana, having subscribing witnesses to it, the state
Courts presume that the witnesses reside at the place where the
contract was made, and are not subject to the process of the Court.
They therefore allow secondary evidence to prove the execution of
the contract. 7 Martin's Rep. N. S. 542. 8 Martin's Rep. N. S.
379. 12 Martin's Rep. 539. This being the settled doctrine of the
Supreme Court of Louisiana, the Court below very properly permitted the evidence to go to the jury.
But it is contended by the plaintiff's counsel here, that the contract having been made in the state of New York, it ought, in all
respects, to be governed by the laws of that state. There is a material difference between the laws of Nev York and those of Louisiana, in relation to the dignity of the instrument sued on, in the
Court below. Contracts made before a notary and two witnesses,
called authentic acts, are by the laws of the latter state elevated
above all others. A contract under seal does not appear to be of
greater dignity there than one without seal. 'And those who sue in
their Courts must abide the consequences of these rules. The
validity and inter F , tation of cont racts are to be governed by the
laws of the coitntry where they are made-; but the remedy must be
according to the laws of the country where the suit is brought. 8
Peters' Rep. 361.
By the second of these bills of exceptions it appears the plaintiffs
offered to read- the notes included-in the deed of trust, as evidence
of the amount of debt due from the defendant Wilcox; to which he!
-objected, because they had rot been assigned to the plaintiffs by the
payees. The'objection was overruled by the Court, and the notea

380

SUPREME COURT.
[Wilcox et al v8. Hunt et al]

read to the jury. If the action properly lay upon the deed of trust,
to which there appears to have been no objection-iade, it wag
proper that the notes, which were included in the deed and made a
part of it, should'have been read to the jury. The third and only
remaining exception is, to the offer on the part of the defendant to
prove, under the plea of general denial, a violation of the contract
sued on, by the plaintiffs, before -he commencement of the suit; and
a failure, on their part, to comply with itg stipulations. This evidence was objected to by the plaintiffs, and excluded from the jury
by the Court. The general rule is, that the allegations in the answer
or plea and the proof must agree; and as there were no averments
in the plea to authorize the proof, it was pl'operly rejected by the
Court. From the best consideration we have been able to give to
this case, it seems to us there is no error in the record and proceedings of the, District Court. The judgment is therefore affirmed with
costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of.the record
from the District Court of the United States for the eastern district
of Louisiaina, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the
said District Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed,
with costs and damages at. the rate of six per centum per annum.

