SIJPRRME COURT.

WILLIAM

R.

SMITH, APPELLANT, VS.

Guy

RICHARDS, APPELLRE.

A bill was filed in the Circuit Court of the southern district of New York, praying that a
contract fo1 the purchase and sale of a portion of a tract of land in Goochland county, in
the state of Virginia, .n which there was a gold mine, should be rescinded. The purchaser alleged fraudulent misrepresentations as to the gold mine; and other arts of the
seller, by which he was induced to make the purchase. , The Court affirmed the decree
of the Circuit Court of the southern district of New York, by which the contract was
ordered to be rescinded.
.It is an ancient and well established principle, that whenever suppressio veri, or suggestio
falsi occur, and more especially both together, they afford sufficient ground to set aside
any release or conveyance.
The party selling property must be presumed to know whether the representation which
he makes of it is true or false. If he knows it to be-false, that is fraud'of the most positive
ti nd; but if he does not know it, then it can only be from gross negligence: and in contetoplation of a Court of Equity, representations tbhunded on a mistake resulting from such
hegligence is fraud. The purchaser confides in them upon tho assumption that the owner
knows his own property, and truly represorfs it. And it is immaterial to the purchaser
whether the misrepresentation proceeded from mistake or fraud. The injury to him is
the same whatever may have been the motives of the seller. The misrepresentations of
the seller of property, to authorize the rescinding a contract of sale.by a Court of equity,
must be of something material, constituting an inducement or motive to purchase; and by
which he has been misled to his injury. It must be in something in which the one
party places a known trust and confidence in the other.
Whenever a sale is made of property not present, but at a remote distance, which the seller
knows the purchaser has not seen, but which he buys upon the representation of the
seller, relying on its truth, then the representation in effect amounts to a warranty: at
least the seller is bound to make good the representation.

ON appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
southern district of New York.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the Court. It was
argued by Mr. Patton and Mr. Webster, with whom was Mr. Botts,
and'Mr. Ogden, for the appellant; and by Mr. Berry and Mr. Crittenden for the appellee.
In the Circuit Court for the southern district of New -York,a bill
was filed by Guy Richards, for the purpose of rescinding a contract
made by the appellee with William R. Smith, for the purchase of a
part of the Goochland gold mine in the state of Virginia, the contract being alleged to be fraudulent. It was agreed by the counsel
for the parties, that a decree should be entered in the Circuit Court,
pro forma, against the complainant; and accordingly, on the 22d
of April, 1837, a decree was entered, rescinding and annulling the
contract in relation to the purchase of the Goochland mine, ordering
that it be given up to 6aid Guy Richards ;l that the appellant Smith
repay all moneys advanced by said Guy Richards upon said contract, and upon the promissory notes made by complainant and de-

livered to the defendant, so far as said notes had been paid by complainant, &c. From this decree an appeal has been prayed and
allowed to this Court.
The counsel for the appellant insisted that the decree was eroneous and ought to be reversed, and the bill dismissed.

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

7

[Smith w. Richar&.]

" 1. Because the said tomplainant has wholly failed to prove that
the representations and description of the Goochland mine alleged
in the bill to be unfair and untrue, are other than fair, accurate, and
just descriptions and representations; and that on the contrary
thereof, the proofs in the cause show that the representations, declarations, and descriptions made and given of said mines so faras
the same are complained of in said bill, were and are true, just,'and
faithful.
2. Because the opinions and estimates made by the appellant of
the value of said mine and of its richness and great worth, and
which are alleged* in the bill to have been false, exaggerated, and
deceptive, And made for the purpose of defrauding and deceiving
the co.mplainant3 were not only his real, honest, and bona .fide opinions, but were such as he was well warranted in entertaining and
expressing.
3. Because, even if the Court should be of opinion that the estimates of the value and richness of the mine and vein, expressed by
the appellant, were exaggerated and extravagant; he is in ilo matiner at law or in equity responsible for such exaggerated and unfounded statements as to the value and richness of said mine, and its
veins or deposites of gold.
. 4. Because, even if all the descriptions of said mine, and all the
declarations made in regard to it by said complaint, as set forth in
said bill as untrue, inaccurate an.d erroneous, were so in fact; it
would not be competent, either at law or in equity, to rescind the
contract which had been executed for the purchase Rnd salo of the
property, unless it had been proved that the appellant knew that
such descriptions and declarations were inaccurate, erroneous, and
false.
5. Because, so far from the plaintiff having succeeded in showing
any sucea knowledge, the testimony dlearly proves, that the appellant
did believe, and had just reason to believe that his idescriptions of
said mine, and representations of itA value, were stricty and literally
true, just, and accurate.
6. Because, it is distinctly and expressly admittedl by , the complainant, and proved by the testimony, that certain specimens or
washings of gold ore, forwarded by the appellant Smith to Nathaniel
Richards, and alleged to have been taken from said Goochland
mine, .and exhibited to him as fair samples of said mine; were exceedingly rich in particles of gold, and gave every indication that
the mine from which they were taken, if the said specimens 'were
proper and fair' samples 9f such mine, must be very abundant in
gold, and of great intrinsic value. And it is clearly and conchisively
shown that the said specimens were really and fairly taken from
said mine5 in a way and manner to ensure their being fair'and
proper samples of the mine; and that many other specimens had
been taken from it by others before Smith wasiriterested in or knew
any thing of said mine, of equal richness With the specimens forwarded to Nathaniel Richards by him.

28

SUPREME COURT.
[Smith w. Richards.)

7. Because, even if the proofshould be considered as having established that the cuts, searches, examinations, and explorations made
since, the purchase by the complainants and others from the appellant, have demonstrated that the mine is not as valuable as the indications warranted Smith to believe, or even that the property is
wholly worthless as a mine, (and it is by no means admitted, that
such examinations have been sufficiently extensive or well conducted to justify such conclusions,) yet that the appellant is not responsible for such failure of the mine to realize the expectations
justly founded upon the indications of value and richness which
existed at the time of, and before the sale; whether the disappointment has resulted from the veins giving out, being intercepted by
rock; or whatever cause of the like kind. Such contingencies and
disappointments are always to be hazarded in every kind of speculative adventure'; and adventures in gold mining have never been,
ii any country, remarkable for exemption from them. And the
appellant in this case did not undertake to insure against them by
any act or expression. On the contrary, it is proved, that the complainant and those whQ united with him in the purchase, were fully
-alive to the risks a ' hazards attendant upon all gold mining adventures and speculationsi and were emphatically admonished of
these hazards, when the appellant exonerated himself from responsibility for their occurrence, by the explicit declaration, made at the
time of the contract, that he sojd the mine for what it is, gold osnowballs.'
8. Because, the property being expressly sold with all faults
('for what it is, gold or snowballs,') accordingly to the settled rules
of law applicable to such a contract, the vendor cannot be made
responsible for any defect in the quality of the thing sold, or for any
misdescription, known or unknown to the said vendor; unless it
also appear that he committed positive fraud, by rosorting *to some
means of concealing the defects 'and misdescriptioh, and by artifice
and contrivance prevented the purchasers from discovering them."
The counsel for the appellant, in support of the third point, "that
even if the Court should be of opinion,-that the estimates of the
value and richness of the mine and vein, expressed by th6 appellant,
were exaggerated and extravagant, he is in no manner at law or in
equity responsible for such exaggerated and unfounded statements
as to the value and richness of said mine, and its veins or deposites
of gold." The following authorities were cited. Sugden, Law of
Vend. 2. Chandler vs. Lopus, C. Jac. 4. 1 Rollis, Abr. 801, (pt.)
16. Harvey vs. Young, Yelverton, 21, (b.), and notes to the American edition. Fenton vs. Browne, 10 Ves. 144. 1 Salk. 211.
Risney vs. Selby, S. C. 2 Lord Raymond, ,1118 Sugden, Law of
Vend. 4, in note Amer. edit. of 1828. Kinnard vs. Lord Dean, 1
Coll. Dec. 332. Roswell -vs. Vaughan, Cro. Jac. 1.26. 'Sherwood
vs. SdIlmon, 2 Day's'Reports. Davis vs. King, 1 Starlde, Rep. 61.
Whitefield vs. M'Leod, 2 Bay. 380-384. 1 Levinz. 102. Pollarcd
vs. Lyman, 1 Day, 156.

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

29

[Smith w. Richard&.]

In support of the fourth proposition, that " even if all the descrip4,
tions of said mine, and all the declarations made in regard to it by:
said complainant, set forti in the said bill as untrue, inaccurate,-and
erroneous, wee so in fact, it would not be competent either at law
or in equity to rescind the contract which had been executed for.
the purchase and sale of the property, unless it had been proved
that the appellant knew that such descriptions and declarations were,
inaccurate, erroneous, and false."
The counsel for the appellant cited, first; cases showing the distinction between the degree of unfairness and proof of fraud, required to authorize a Court of equity to refuse specific performance,
and that necessary to justify a rescission of a contract. Ellard vs.
Lord Landaff, 1 Ball and Beatty. Cathcart vs. Robinson, 5.Peters"
Rep. 276. 10 Ves. 292.
2. Cases showing that the rule, caveat emptor, prevails in England, New York, and Virginia, both as to real and' personal pro
perty ; and that to rescind a contract there must be actual fraud and
intentional misrepresentation.
a. That in sales of real estate the rule applies even as to title, viz..
Roswell vs. Vaughan, Cro. Jac. 196. Pollard vs. Layman,, 1 Day,
156. Hitchcock vs. Giddings, 41rice,135. Velverton,21. (b.) Notes,
American Ed. Commonwealth vs. M'Clehahan, 4 Rand. 482. Ches,
terman vs. Gardiner, 5 John. Ch. R. 29. Abbott vs. Allen, ib. 523.
As to defects of quality or misdescription, there can be no rescission or responsibility upon the vendor, unless there be a warranty-.
fraud, or intentional misrepresentation. Parkinson vs Lee, 2 East,
314. Sands vs. Taylor, 5 John. R. 395. Duke of Norfolk vs. Wortly,
1 Camp. 337. Seixas vs. Wood, 2 Caines' Rep. 48. Oldfield vs.
Round, 5 Ves. 508. Dyer vs. Lewis,'7 Mass. 284. Legge vs.
Croker, 1 Ball and Beatty, 506.
,As to the eight point, " that the property being express]i sold
,,with all faults, (for what it is, gold or snowballs,) according to the
settled rules of law applicable to such a contract, the vendor cannot
be made responsible for any defect in the quality of the thing sold,
or for any misdescription, known or unknown to the said vendor;
unless it also appears that he committed positive fraud, by resorting
to some means of concealing the defects and misdescription, and by
artifice and contrivance prevented the purchasers from discovering
them."
The counsel for the appellant cited Oldfield vs. Round, 5 Ves. 508.
Baglehole vs. Waltens, 3 Camp. 154. Schneider vs. Heath, 3 Camp.
506. Pickering vs. Dowsop, 4 Taunt. 779. Sherwood vs. Salmon,
2 Day. Tucker vs. Cocke, 2 Rand. 57. Green's opinion, 65. Vernon
vs. Keegs, 12 East, 632. 5. C. 4 Taunt. 48.
Mr. Berry and Mr. Crittenden, for the appellee, insisted that the
description of the property sold was materially false in the particulars set forth in the brief of the appellee; that the false description

so

SUPREME COURT.
[Smith vs. Richards.)

was given by the appellant, with the-design to deceive, and that he
adopted measures to, conceal the matters of false description; and
contended that even if the contract of the parties could be construed
a sale6 with all faults, that'the case came within the principles decided in the case of Schneider vs. Heath, 3 Camp. 506.
-But they contended that the contract was not to be construed a
sale with all faults; and referred to Pickering vs. Dowson, 4 ,Taunt.
779.

If so, they contended that the sale was fraudulent and ought to be
set aside, on the authority qf adjudged cases; and cited Boyce's executors vs. Grundy, 3Peters,210. 1Merev. 26. Donalson vs. Weakley
et al. 3 Yerger's Rep. 178. Sherwood vs. Salnon, 5 Day's Rep. 439.,
They further contended that if the false representations should be
considered as made .by mistake, that being so in matters which
formed the inducement to the contract on the part of the appellee,
a. Court of equity ought to relieve by rescinding the contract: and
cited 1 Story's Eq 202. 204. McFerran vs. Taylor, 3 Cranch, 270.
Glassell vs. Thomas, 3 Leigh, 113. Chamberlane vs. Marsh, 6 Mun.
283. Pearson vs. Morgan, 2 Bro. Chan. 389. Allen vs. Hammond,
11 Peters, 63. Calvery vs. Williams, 1 Ves. Jr. Hitchcock vs.
Geddings, 4 Price, 133. Lowndes vs. Law, 2 Cxe's Cases, 363.
Mr. Justice BAnOUR delivered the opinion of thQ Court.
This case comes before us,-by appeal from a decree of the Circuit
Court for the southern district of New York.
I1was a suit in equity, brought by the appellee against the appeilant, to set aside., a contract for fraud.
It appears that in December 1832, a tract of land, embracing a
gold mine, called the Goochland mine, lying in the county of Goochland, Virginia, was purchased by the appellant, one-third for himself, and two-thirds for Nathaniel Richards, of the city of N9w
York, at the price of about $14,000. In May, 1833, the appellant
sold 6ne-half of his third to Nathaniel Richards, for $15,000. In
June, 1833, he sold five-sixths of the other half to the appellee and
others, at the rate of $45,000 for the-whole of that half.
The interest which the appellee acquired in this property, was
one-eighth part of one-sixth, at the price of $5,625; as evidence of
which he received from Nathaniel Richards, who acted as the appellant's agent in making the sale, a writing dated July 4th, 1833,
Acknowledging the receipt of. the purchase money, in cash and
severat3otes of hand. This paper described the property thus sold
and bought, as one-eighth part of one-sixth of four hundred and
fifty-six acres of land, and of one hundred acres purchased of David
Moss, the deeds bearing date 17th of May, 1833; both parcels lying
in the county of Goochland, and state of Virginia, and called the
Goochland mine.
It declares that the receipts (that is of the cash and notes) entitle
(Oi y Richards (the appellee) to the one-eighth portion of one-sixth

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

31

[Smith vs. Richards.]

part of said property; and it assumed that form, .as the paper
shows, because the title to all was in Nathaniel Richards, although
one-sixth paft belonged to the appellant.
In the same'paper is contained the following provision: "It is
hereby expressly understood and agreed to by the said Guy Riol'
ards, that he is to contribute his full proportion of any expenses
already incurred, or which may be incurred hereafter on the said
premises, in searching for or developing any mine, .or mines, in the
erection of buildings, the purchase of machinery, and any, other
expenses, for the above general object, which I may deem necessary. Signed by Nathaniel Richards."
This is the contract which the bill seeks to set aside; it alleges,
that the appellee was induced to make it by.various representations
and declarations of the appellant, especially those contained in certain letters, particularly referred to in the bill, written by the appellant to Nathaniel and Charles H. Richards, which the bill charges
to have been false, fraudulent and deceptive, and made for the purpose of deluding and deceiving the appellee and other persons, and
inducing them to purchase at an exorbitant and unconsci6nable
price, and by specimens of washings of said gold- mine, which
were exhibited to the appellee, as fair specimens and- samples f the
Goochland mine, which the'bill charges Were not fair samples; and
that the appellant knew that they were not fair samples, and that
he caused them to be exhibited to the appellees as fair specimens
and samples of said mine, for the express purpose of defrauding him,
by inducing him to purchase a part of his interest in said mine, upon
the faith of qaid specimens, as well as the false, fraudulent, and de-'
ceptive repesentations. The bill further charges, that one of the
letters of the appellant to Nathaniel Richards, dated January 21st,
1833, containing a description of the Goochland mine, was rqad to
him, and the specimen exhibited to him, at the express request of
the appellant, by Nathaniel Richards, in the month of June, 1833,

a short time before his purchase.
It further.charges, that the appellant hada represented to the appellee, that lie was well skilled in the business of mining, having
been employed in that business in South America; that he understood the directions of veins in a mine, and the cost and expense of
extracting gold from the foreign materials, by which it is surrounded, and in which gold is most usually found. That the Virginia Mining Company, relying upon the fitness of the appellant
for the business aforesaid, and his skill in the principles'qnd process
of mining, employed hi.n as their agent; and that during the whole
time of the negotiations and representations concerning the Goochland mine, he was the agent of the Virginia Mining Companiy
That the appellee never was at the Goochland gold fi-ine, nor did
he ever -visit the tract of land in which it was represented by the
appellant to be situated; but that inthe months of June and July,,
1833, believing the appellant to be a man of strict honour, honesty,
truth, and veracity, lie reposed the most implicit faith in his decla-

32

SUPREMt COURT.
[Smith vs. fichards.]

ration§ with regard to said gold mine, and .relied exclusively upon
his representations, especially his letter of the 21st January, 1833,
to Nathaniel'Richards, and his several letters to Charles H. Richards,., as containing accuiate,- fair, and correct descriptions of the
Gooehland mine.
The bill therk proceeds to charge certain specific nIiisrepresentations in the following particulars, to wit:
1st. That thd6re .,'ire not, and never have been, any vdins of gol,4
whatever in tle Goochland mine, and that that fact was well
known to Smith, at the tinp when he wrote, the letters, and made
the representations before- stated; and that neither one h ndred nor
any other nttnber of feet, on a vein in said mine, was or were, at
the date of the letter from the appellant to Nathaniel Richards, or
at any other time, opened or developed.
2dly. That so far froijo there being rich veins of gold in the mine,
as the appellant in the last mentioned letter (that is, as we understand it, of the 21st of January, 1833, to Nathaniel Richards) assertea. that there were cuts, and searches which had recently, and since
his purchase been made, at the said mine in various directions, and
no veins (f gold whatever could be discovered: and that the purchasers thereof, including the appellee, had bedmr compelled, after
many searches, sinking shafts, making cuts and experiments, and
expending a great deal of money in the enterprise, to abandon the
search after gold in said mine; to dismiss their Workmen, and give
up the project of mining altogether.
3dly. Ihat there are, and were at the time of the appellant's
representations in relation to said mine, fine particles of gold to be
found on the premises, included within the bounds of the Goochland
mine. But that such particles are and were so minute, so few, and
so mixed up with sand and other foreign substances, that the cost
of extracting the gold'from such materials would far exceed the
value of the gold when extracted: and that the four hundred and
fifty-six h cres, and the one hundred acres of land specified in the
receipt of Nathaniel Richards, before stated, are utterly worthless
as a gold mine; and the appellee's interet Lherein is of no value
whatever.4thly. That the specimens of washings of said gold mine, exhibited'to the appellee and others, by the order and direction of the
apkllant, as fair specimens and examples of said gold mine, are
not, and were not at the time when they were forvarded by the
appellAnt to Nathaniel Richards, fair samples, or specimens of said
mine; and the appellee expresses-his belief that they, were not
taken from the Goochland mine.
5thly. That.the Goochland premises do not contain veins of gold,
nor any considerable deposites of gold; nor are they rich in gold,
or of any value whatever, for any purpose of mining, either for
gold, or any other metal.
The answer of the defendani, in various parts of it, utterly and
IMaquIlifiedly denies any intention or purpose to deceive or delude.

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

33

(Smith v8. Richards.]

the appellee, or that he had ever.done, or permitted to be -done, any
thing to produce that effect. It denies that he ever made any inflated represeatations, or false descriptions. of the mine, to induie
any person to give an inordinate price for his interest therein. It
insists that in the letter of the 2lst January, 1833, to Nathaniel
Richards, his object was to give a trnfe and accurate account of the
Goochland mine, so far as the facts could be ascertained by his own,
observation and from the information of others on whom he could
rely; and that in those addressed to Charles H. Ritards, no fact
was stated as being known to him, which was untrue so far as facts
are given, in reference to the Goochland mine; and that as well in
the before mentioned letter to Nathaniel, as in those to Clarles H.
Richards, as far as opinions were expressed they were honestly
entertained, without any intention, motive, or purpose to deceive
the appellee, or any person whatever. It insists that the specimens
of gold ore sent by him to Nathaniel Richards were fair samples
of the mine ; and denies that these specimens were directed by him
to be exhibited to the appellee, or any other person, with a design
of deceiving or defrauding any person to whom they might be
shown.
It insists, in general, that in all the statements he ever made, at
any time, to any person concerning the Goochland mine, whether
in writing or verbally, so far as facts were given within his knowledge, they were strictly true; so far as the information derived
from others was given he believed, it to be true; and so far as his
opinion has been expressed on the subject of the GQochland mine,
such opinion. was honestly entertained, without any interest, m, ve,
or view, directly, or indirectly, to deceive the appellee. or any other
person. It insists, that there are and were veins of gold in the
Gooehland mine, and that from personal examination, before any
representation was made, he knows that the Goochland mine contains veins of gold of extraordinary richness, and of great intrinsic
value. It insists that, at the time he wrote the letter to Nathaniel
Richards, there were an hundred feet or upwards, according to
his best-judgmnt, developed on the veijn in said mine.
, The answer admits, that the appellant may have been informed
by Nathaniel Richards, that he had shown or read the letter of the
21st January, 1833, to the appellee and others, but at what timne. he
is unable to state : that he was informed by CQh.rle~s, t Richards,
that said letter had been read to him and others, including the appellee, before the purchase made by him and them of his interest in
the Goochland gold mine: that he had been informed, and believes
it to be true, that 'about the 'month of June, 1833, Nathaniel Richards did exhibit to the appellee and ethers the specimens or washings of gold ore, forwarded by the. appellant, as specimens of,the
Goochlan I mine, and its productions of gold: that in June, 1833,
the appellant wrote several lettets to Charles H. Riohards: that in
describing the Goochland mine in those letters he used language
of a very decided character, as being the very richest mine in Vir5

SUPREME COURT.
[Smith vs. Richards.]

ginia, or in the United States: that the appellant esteemed himself
well skilled in the business of mining, and that the appellee relied
on such skill -in making the purchase: that during the whole time
of the negotiation and representations concerning the Goochland
mine, he was employed as the agent of the Virginia Mining Company: that the appellee did not visit the mine, or the tract of land
an which it was, before he bought an interest therein : that the negotiation for the purchase of the mine was carried on principally
through Nathaniel and Charles H. Richards: that he believes the
appellee, when he purchased an interest in: the gold mine, fully
believed the declarations and representations and letters of the appellant to be true, so far as he may have been informed thereof; and
that he purchased an interest therein in the full reliance that whatever this defendant had said, declared, or written on the subject of
the Goochland mine,,was strictly true; but does not admit that the
appellee purchased solely on the faith of his representations, declarations, and letters.
Having thus stated the material allegations in the bill, and as well
the denials as the admissions in the answer, we are enabled to see
what the questions are which we are called upon to decide. But,
before we state them, we will present, in a condensed form, those
parts of the representation, the alleged falsehood of which constitutes the gravamen of the appellee's bill. In the letter from the appellant to Nathaniel Richards, under date of January 21st 1833, in
which he professes to give an account and his views of the Goochland mine, amongst other things, he states that there has been upwards of one hundred feet on the vein developed, which prov-s to
be very rich indeed, much richer than any thing yet, discovered in
the United States; and the quanty ot the gold surpasses any heretofore discovered in any country: that the surface is rich in gold. In
regard to the formations in which the ore is found, he s ys-It is
quite wide, a distance in one place of twelve feet has been cut, and
the veins are disseminated throughout the whole formation, in
threads of from two to six inches wide, and in many have several
concentrated together; at another point it has been found to be
several feet wider: and that there is ore from this mine that will,
without doubt, give several hundred pennyweights of gold to the
hundred pounds. This letter was written after the appellant had,
as he himself says, mado a careful personal examination of the vein
as far as it had been developed, which he oay, was for a distance
of one hundred feet lengthwise.
On the lth of June, 1833, the appellant wrote to Nathaniel
Richards, requesting him to show all the specinens, washings, plat,
and description of the mine, to Guy, (the appellee,) and others.
This letter and. these specimens, washings, &c. were shown to the
appellee in compliance with this request. The representations in
relation to the mine, then, consist, in part, of the statements above,
extracted from the letter of the 21st of January, 1833, which was
shown or read to the appellee; and, in part, of the.specimens, wash-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

35

[Smith v8. Richards.]

ings, &c. exhibited to him at the appellant's request, whilst a negotiation was going on between the appellant and Charles H. Richards,
for the purchase of the appellant's interest in the mine, for himself
and others, of whom the appellee was one, and but a very short
time before the purchase was made.
The first question in order is, were these representations true or
untrue .
We have examined the evidence in the record on both sides, with
mucl care. And we think it unnecessary to go into a detailed examination and comparison of that evidence here, inasmuch as it would
extend this opinion to a useless length. We, therefore, will only
state the conclusions of fact at which We have arrived. They are
these :
We think it not true, that there was one hundred feet developed
on the vein, which proved to be very rich indeed. We do not mean
to say, that a continuous exposure of the vein for one hundred feet
was implied by the uise of the term developed; on time contrary, we
are of opinion, from the evidence, thatthe sinkhin-safts, or making
cuts, at intervals, for that distance, would satisfy the meaning of this
expression, and that we think was done. But we mean to say, that
although there was a small quantity of ore found in-part of this vein,
which was rich, yet in any one of the pus it was relatively a small
proportion-; that in some there was but little, and in one, we think
the weight of evidence is, that there was none at all.
We think it not true, that the surface was rich in gold.
We think it not true, that the formation was at any point twelve
feet wide, or that the veins were disseminated throughout the whole
formation, in threads of from two to six inches wide, and in many
had several concentrated together.
We think it not true, that there was ore from that mine, that
would give several hundred pennyweights of gold to the hundred
pounds. We will not say that there might not be a small piece
•selected which would yield at that rate: but we think that this representation was calculated to produce the impression, and justify
the belief, that an hundred pounds of ore might be gotten together,
Which would produce several hundred pennyweights of gold. Any
other interpretation of this language would, in our opinion, imp te
to the. appellant the grossest deception.
We think that the specimens and washings which were forwarded
to Nathaniel Richards were not fair samples of the mine:
The only proper purposes for which they could have been exhibited, was to enable purchasers to form an estimate of thd richness
of the mine: tl, appellant, therefore, in our opinion, ought to have.
caused to be exhibited, either specimens of the richest and poorest
quality, so as to show the extremes, or some of an average quality.
knowing that the persons to whom he requested them' to be exhibited, and an igst them the appellee, had never seen the mine.
Any other c 4q, under the circumstances, could not fail to produce
6f its value.
a false estim

36

SUPREME COURT.
[Smith s. Richar&I.]

Having come to these conclusions in relation to the facts of this
case, the next inquiry in order is, what is the law of the case?
it is an ancient and well established principle, that whenever suppressio ven; or suggestio falsi occur,. and more especially both together, they afford a sufficient ground to set aside any release or
conveyance.
This ancient principle, thus expressed with so much sententious
brevity, is laid down in terms somewhat more comprehensive, and
having a direct bearing on the present case, by a modern text
writer on equity.
In I Maddock's Chancery, 208, it is thus stated. If, indeed, a
man, upon a treaty for any contract, make a false representation,
whether knowingly or not, by means of which he puts the party
bargaining under a mistake upon the terms of bargain, it is a frauc,
and relievable in equity. The doctrine thus laid down is almost in
the very words used by the chancellor, in thq case of 'Nevilld vs.
Wilkinson, 1 Brown's Chan., Cases, 546, with the exception of the
words, whether knowingly or not; and the part of the proposition
embraced by these words, is founded upon the case of Ainslie vs.
Medlicot, 9 Vesey, 21, which fully sustains Mr. Maddock. In
this latter case the following strong language is used. "No doubt,
by a representation a party may bind himself just as much as by in
express covenant. If, knowingly, he represents What is not true, no
doubt he is bound. If, without knowing that it is not true, he takes
upon himself to make a representation to another, upon the faith of
which that other acts, no doubt'he is bound; though his mistake
was perfectly innocent."
But the doctrine is laid down with more .iomprehensiveness and
precision, by a still more modern writer on equity; who gives us, in
the form of distinct propositions, what he considers the result of the
various cases on the subject, and marks, with particularitr, the modifications which belong to it.
In 1 Story's Equity, 201, 202, it is thus stated. "Wherd the party
intentionally, or by design, misrepresents a material fact, or produces
a false impression, in order to mislead another, or to entrap or cheat
him, or to obtain an undue advantage of him; in every such case
there is a positive fraud, in the truest sense of the terms; there is
an evil act, with an evil intent; dolum malum, ad circuinveniendum. - And the misrepresentation may be as well by deedsor acts, as by words; by artifices to mislead, as by positive ascertions."
Whether the party thus misrepresenting a fact, knew it to be false,
or made the assertion without knowing whether it were true or.
false, is wholly immaterial; for the 'affirmation of what one does not
know, or believe to be true, is equally in morals and law, as unjustifiable as the affirmation of what is known to be positively false.
And even if the party innocently misrepresents a fact by mistake, it
is equally conclusive; for it operates as a surprise and imposition on
the other party. Or, as Lord Thurlow expresses it, in Neville vs.

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

37

[Smith ye. Rihars.]

Wilkinson-," it misleads the parties dontracting, on the subject of
the contract."
The author of the treatise last cited thus states the modifications
of the doctrine:
The misrepresentation must be of something material, constituting
'an inducement, or motive- to the act, or, omission of the other, and
by which he is actually misled t6 his injury.
In the next place, the misrepresentation must not only be in something naterial, but it must be in something, in regard to which the
one party places a known trust and confidence in the other. It must
'not be a mere matter of opinion, equally open to both parties 'for
examination and inquiry; and where neither party is presumed to
trust to the other, but to rely on his own judgment.
The doctrine of these text writers is illustrated by the cases in
the books, some of which present very strong applications of it; for
it is held to extend not only to the parties to the contract, but also
to -others, who, from gross negligence, are guilty of misrepresentation. Thus, for example, in the case of Pearson vs. Morgan, 2
Brown's Ch. Cases, 385, where A, being interested irf an estate in
fee, which was charged with R8000 in favour of B, -was applied to
by C, who was about to lend money to B, to know whether the
;8000 was still a subsisting charge on the estate. A stated that it
was, and C lent his money to B accordingly. It appeared, afterwards, that the charge had been satisfied :yet.it was held that the
money lent was a charge on the lands in the hands of A's heirs, because he either knew, or ought to have known the fact of satisfaction, and his representation was a fraud on C.
Of a similar character was the case of Hobbs vs. Norton, 1 Ver.
136, where one entered into an agreement for the purchase of an
annuity, charged on the lands of a.third person; and was encouraged
in the course of the transaction by the latter, who suggested his own.
title, and it afterwards appeared, that such title was of a nature to
have enabled the owner to avoid the annuity.; yet he was, as to the
purchaser, held under an obligation to confirm it.
Cases of this class present the principle in its strongest aspect; because in these cases, the parties making the representation were
bound by it to prevent a loss t othiers, although tl.t'y themselves
derived no advantage from it; whereas, in those instances in which
the parties to the contract made the representation, they would receive benefit to the amount of thne loss which-the misrepresentation
would produce to the'other party, who acted on the faith of it; if
the Court did .ot relieve against' it.
This principle has been adopted in' the Courts of our 9wn country. In Fulton's executors vs. Roosevelt, 5 John. Ch. Rep. 174, the
case was this: Fulton was induced by the representations of Roosevelt, that he had discovered a valuable coal mine on the bank of the
Ohio river, to contract for the purchase of a tract of land, stated by
Roosevelt to embrace the mine; and besides giving to Roosevelt
$44oo. Fulton covenanted to nav.him 1.000 annually, for twenty

38

SUPREME COURT.
(Smith vs. Richards.]

years; but the annuity was to cease, if, after the mine was faithfully worked by Fulton, it should not produce at least $12000, &c.
And the land was accordingly conveyed to Fulton. It appeared
that there was no coal mine within the boundaries of the land conveyed; although there was coal adjoining it, in the bed of the river,
which was navigable, deep, and rapid: but the working of the mine,
if practicable, would be very hazardous, expensive, and unprofitable. The contract on the part of Fulton was held to be founded
in mistake and misrepresentation; and Roosevelt was perpetually
enioined from bringing any suit against Fulton, to recover the annuity agreed to be paid him.
In that case the chancellor says: whethier the deiendant made the
statements in his letter to Fulton through mistake, or under the delusions of his own imagination, or by design, I am not able to say.
It is sufficient for, the decision of this case, that the representations
are'not supported, but are contradicted by proof, and that the claim
of the annuity, upon such a state of the case, is unconscientious and
unjust. And this decree was affirmed in the Court of errors,
2 Cowen, 129.
In the case of McFerran vs. Taylor & Massie, in this Court,, in
3 Cranch, 281, the Court, after remarking that there was a material
misrepresentation, and that the defendant had contended that it originated in mistake, not in fraudsay: from. the situation of the parties, and of the country, 'and from the form of the entry, it was reasonable to presume, that this apology is true in point of fact; but
the Court does not conceive that ,the fact will amount to a legal justification of the lierson who has made the misrepresentation. He
who sells property, on a description given by himself, is bound to
make good that description; and if it be untrue in a material point,
although the variance be occasioned by a mistake, must still remain
liable for that variance.
The principles of these'cases we consider founded in sound morals
and law. They rest upon the ground-that the party selling property
must be presumed to know whether the representation which he
,makes of it is true or false. If he knows it to be false, that is fraud
of the most positive kind; but if he does not know it, then it ca.A
only be from gross negligence : and in contemplation of a Court of
equity, representations founded on mistake, resulting from such
negligence, is fraud. 6 Ves. 180.,189. Jeremy, 385, 386. The purchaser confides in it, upon the assumption that the owner knows his
own property, and truly represents it; and, as was well argued in
the case in Cranch, it is immaterial to the purchaser whether the
misrepresentation proceeded from mistake or fraud. The injury to
him'is the same, whatever may have been the motives of the seller.
We will next inquire' whether the misrepresentation in this case
comes up to the rule which has been laid down. In the first place,
it must be of matters Qf fact; and it has been arguded'by the appellant's counsel, that the letter of the 21st of January, 1833, did not
profess to state matters of fact, but to express opinions. It is cer-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

39

[Smith vs. Richards.]

tainly true, that matters of opinion between-parties dealing on equal
terms, although falsely stated, are not relieved against; because they
are not presumed to mislead, or influence the other party, when each
has equal means of information. But we consider the representation in this case not the expression of opinion, but the statement of
facts. The appellant, in giving a description of a mine in Virginia,
which he desired to be exhibited to the appellee in New York, says,
that one hundred feet on the vein had been developed, which proved
to be very rich, much richer than any thing yet discovered in the
United States. That the surface was rich in gold; that the formation was quite wide, and in one place twelve feet; that the veins
were disseminated throughout the whole formation, in threads of
from two to six inches wide; and that there was ore from the mine
that would without doubt give several hundred pennyweights of
gold to the hundred pounds.- Now, as to one of these statements,
beyond all question it is a matter of fact; we mean the one which
describes the width of the formation and veins.
Having made a personal examination, he declares the formation
to be wide, gives the actual width in one place, and then the width
of the veins, in terms not of conjecture, but of the most positive
assertion. He gives their dimensions by feet and inches. This statement, then, comes up to the standard of mathematical certainty.
And even in regard to the others, he does not profess to speak of
them from conjecture, but speaks of them as they are, without qualification. Take, for example, this :-The surface is rich in gold.
Not that he thinks it will turn out to be rich, but that it is rich. It
was argued, that there was no standard by which to decide what
quantity of gold would justify calling it rich. There is none by
which it can be decided with mathematical certainty: but the law
does not require it. Suppose that a seller was to describe to a distant purchaser, a tract of land as being rich, and it were proven to
be poor, or very poor. Can it be that a Court of equity would not
give relief in such a case? The certainty in the one case is as great
as in the other ; and the misrepresentation as to richness must be
proven ineach case, by the evidence of those who understood the
quality of the one or the other.
In the next place the misrepresentation must be of something
material, constituting an inducement or motive to the appellee to
purchase, and by which he has been actually misled to his injury.
Now, in our opinion, that is emphatically tb- case in the suit
before us. The mine, we think, not only constituted a motive, but
the sole motive to the purchaser: he was induced to purchase an
interest at a high price, in that which has turned out to be worthless; and he has, therefore, been misled greatly to his injury.
It must, in the next place, be in something in which the one party
places a known trust and confidence in the other.
Nothing could be ktr6ger than the confidence herd, because the
appellee had never seen the mine, and the appellant knew it; the
appellee had seen the letter of description and specimens, and the

40

SUPREME COURT.
(Smith vs. Richards.]

appellant knew that he had ; the appellee confided iii the truth of
the appellant's representation, and his skill in mines, and in mining
operations, and the appellant knew that he did.
But it has been earnestly contended at the bar, that whatever
might be the effect of misrepresentation in cases in which there
was -nothing to countervail it;, that in this case, at least, it cannot
avail the appellee, on account of the particular character of the
contract.
The purchase of an interest in the gold mine was made through
the agency of Charles H. Richards, acting for himself and others,
and amongst them, for the appellee. Richards, by his letter of the
18th June, 1833, to the appellant, amongst other things, said, "But
after all the above named gentlemen (amongst whom was the appellee,) had seen your letter, we concluded, at any rate, we would
look at the samples of ore, and have, done so, and your letter describing the premises to N. R. (Nathaniel Richards,) he read to us.
The ore is rich beyond dispute; but how much there is of it, remains to be seen. In regard to the extent of the irine, and its
richness, we must, of course, rely on your judgment."
The appellant in his letter of the 21st of June, 1833, in reply to the above
letter of Charles H. Richards, speaking of' the gold mine, says: "I,
however, sell it for what it is, gold, or snow balls; and I leave it to
you te decide, whether you will take it at my price, or not."
It is
said that the contract having been copcluded, upon the basis of this
correspondence, the purchase was one, with all faults; that is in
effect, that the seller was absolved friom all liability, by reason of
any representation which he had -made, in relation to the mine.
In support of this proposition, several cases have been cited at
the bar: let us examine them.---The case of Baglehole vs. Walters,
3 Camp. 154, was this: The defendant being about to sell a vessel,
the subject of the suit had printed particulars 'of sale, of which a
copy w~s delivered to the plaintiff, in the following words: "For
sale, the good brig Iris, burthen per register 208 tons ; will carry 17
keels of coal and glass, or 300 loads of timber: has lately delilivered a cargo of sugar from the West Indies, in excellent condition - is well found in all kind of stores, which are in good condition. Hull, masts, yards, standing and running rigging, with'all
faults, as they now lie."
The plaintiff purchased two-thirds of the
shfp, which defendant conveyed to him in the common form. The
plaintiff, undertook to prove, that at the time of the sale, the ship
had several secret defects in her; that these were known to the defendant; a.nd, that lie did not disclose them to the plaintiff. And he
relied upon a previous case of Mellish vs. Motteaux, Peake's Cases,
215, in which Lord Kenyon had held that the seller off a ship is
bdund to disclose to the buyer, all latent defects known to him; observing that the terms to which the plaintiff acceded of taking the
ship with all faults, and without warranty, must be understood to
relate only to those. faults which the plaintiff could have discovered,
or which the defendants were unacquainted with. But Lord Ellen-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

41

[Smith vs. Richards.]

borough, disapproving of the doctrine of the case above cited; held
that where a ship is sold with all faults, the seller is not liable to an
action, in respect of latent defects which he knew of without disclosing at the time of the sale, unless he used some artifice to conceal them from the purchaser.
In the same volume of Campbell, 505, a case is reported of
Schneider and another vs. Heath, which was tried before Mansfield,
Chief Justice; the opinion expressed by the Chief Justice is founded
in so much good sense and justice, that we should have felt disposed, in a conflict of authorities, to have adopted it, even if it had
not been, as, in the sequel of this opinion, we shall show it was,
subsequently recognised and acted upon by the Court. The
opinion is in these words: "The words,' that is, With all faults as
they lie, "are very large to exclude the buyer from calling upon the
seller for any defect in the thing sold; but if the seller was gull y
of any positive fraud in the case, these words will not protect him.
There might be such fraud, either in a false representation, o 'in
using m6ans to conceal some defect. I think the particular is
evidence here, by way of representation; that states the hull to be
nearly as good as when launched, and that the vessel required a
most trifling outfit. Now, is this true or' false? If false, it is a
fraud, which vitiates the contract. What was the fact? The hull
wag worm-eaten, the keel was broken, and the ship could, not be
rendered seaworthy, without a most expensive outfit. The agent
tells us he framed this particular, without knowing any thing of-the
matter. But it signifies nothing, whether a man represents a thing
to be different from what he knows it to be, or whether he makes a
representation which he does not know at the time to be true or
false, if in point of fact it turns out to be false.'2 As it appeared in
the case that means had been taken, fraudulently, to conceal the defects in the ship's bottom, the case may not be an authority in
favour of the opinion above quoted; yet it serves to show that the
doctrine on this subject was not then settled. About the time that
this last case was decided, the case of Pickering vs. Dowson, reported in 4 Taun. 779, was decided in the Common Pleas. That
also was the sale of a ship, with all faults. A copy of the particulars was delivered by the seller to the buyer, which, amongst
other things, represented the ship as being copper fastened, and as
having recently undergone a thorough repair. It was proven that
the ship was not copper fastened, and that the defendant knew she
was leaky. The Court adhered to the doctrine of Lord Ellenborough, in. Baglehole vs. Walters, and held that the seller was not
responsible. Now, it will be observed, that all these cases were
cases of ships, where the thing which was the subject matter of the
contract was in such situation that the buyer had a full opportunity to inspect and examine the truth of the representaiion; and
this we take to be the ground of decision in them. Th6 meaning,
says Heath Justice, in Pickering vs. Dowson, of selling with all
faults, is, "that the purchaser shall make use of his eyes and unD2

SUPREME COURT.
[Smith v. Richard.]

This implies, in.
derstanding to discover what Iaults there are."
our opinion, that the thing must be in such situation as to enable
him to make use of his eye-s and understanding; and accordingly,
in that case, "the full opportunity of the purchaser to inspect and
examine the'truth of the representation," is included in the marginal
note of the case, as one of the terms of the proposition which exempts the seller from liability.
Now we think that this case is strikingly contradistinguished
from. that in the most important particular; that in this the purchaser had not full opportunity to inspect and examine. It is true,
that it would have been in the purchaser's power to have travelled
some hundreds of miles to Virginia, to examine the mine ;.so it was in
the case which has been auoted from Johnson's Chancery Reports ;
but the Chancellor does not even intimate an idea that it was necessary for him to do so: so also in the case of Sherwood vs. Salmon, 5 Day's Reports, 439, the purchaser might by extraordinary
diligence have examined the land; but the Court, in refecrence to
this very subject, say, that whe-e, from the remote situation of the
land, or any other cause, a contract is madQ for the sale of land,
without viewing it, there is the same reason that, the seller should
be responsible for a false affirmatiol- respecting its quality, as for
any other fraud.
We think we may safely lay down this principlje, that wherever a
sale is made of property not present, but at a remote distance, which
the seller knows the purchaser has, never seen, but which he buys
upon the representation of the seller, relying on its truth, then the
representation, in effect, amounts to a warranty ; at least, that the
seller is bound to make good the representation. No part of the
Nasoning of the cases which we have been reviewing applies to
such a case ; they proceed upon the idea, that where the subject of
the sale is open to the inspection and examination of the buyer,
it is his own folly and negligence not to examine. Chancellor Kent,
iii the second volume of his Commentaries, 484, 485, has justly said,
that the law does not go to the romantic length of giving indemnity
against the consequences of indolence and folly, or a careless indifference to the ordinary and accessible means of information. We
think that this imputation cannot be made with any propriety
against the appellee. The subject of the purchase was several hundred miles from him; he had never seen it; the seller knew that
he had never seeam it; in this situation he made a representation,
both by description in his letter, and by the exhibition of specimens;
the appellee bought upon the faith of that representation, the appellant knowing that the appellee had read the letter and seen the
samples: finally, the appellee had a double confidence in the appellant; first, in his integrity, and secondly, in his skill in mining;
and the appellant admits his belief that the appellee had this double
confidence in him.
If, under these circumstances, the seller were not bound by his
representation, we know not in what cases we ought to apply the

JANUARY T7ERM, 1839.

43

[Smith vs. Richards.]

well-kilown and excellent niaxim, "ides servanda est," We have
now compared the cases, and upon principle, have shown, that they
do not apply to this. But we will conclude our opinion, by referring to a case, later than all those which we have been examining,
the reasoning of which is conclusive, as we think,. in favour of the
view which we have taken. It is the case of Shepherd vs. Kain,
5 Barn. & Al. 240. It was a case for the breach of warranty, as
to the character of a ship. The advertisement for the sale of the
ship described her as a copper fastened vessel; but there were subjoined these words: "The vessel, with her stores as she now lies,
to be taken with all faults, without allowance for any defects
whatever." It appeared at the trial, that the ship when sold, was
only partially coper fastened, and that she was not what was
called in the trade, a copper fastened vessel. It appeared also, that
the plaintiff, before he bought her, had a -full opportunity to examine" her situation.
The Court said, the meaning of the advertisement must be that
the seller will not be responsible for any faults which a copper fastened ship nay have. Suppose a silver service sold with all faults,
and it turns out to be plated; can there be any doubt that the
vendor would be liable? With all faults, must mean, which it may
have consistently with its being the thing described. Here, the ship
was not a copper fastened ship at all ; and therefore the verdict was
right. This case decides, that even where the plaintiff had a full
opportunity of examination, the term, all faults, did not exempt the
seller from liability for any defect but what was consistent with itq
being the thing described; and, in effect, that the description
amounted to a warranty. In the case before us, where the appellee
had no-opportunity for examination, (and in that respect the case is
much stronger in his favour than the one just cited,) the terms of the
sale, in our opinion, lnt upon the appellee no hazard or risk, but
those which were consistent with the mine being such as it was described; that those terms in no degree exempted him from liability
for misrepresentation ; but if the mine had been such as described,
then that they would have exempted him from any liability for
failure in its anticipated produce.
It may be, that the appellant made the representation under the
influence of delusion; but it is sufficient, to decide this case, for usto know that the representation was untrue in material parts of it.
The decree of the Circuit Courtis affirmed with costs.
Mr. Justice STORYr dissenting.In this case I have the misfortune to differ from a majority of my
brethren. The bill seeks to set aside and rescind an executed contract, upon the ground of gross premeditated fraud, the contract
being confessedly one of great hazard and founded in speculation.
The answer fully and pointedly denies every allegation of fraud,
and insists upon the most perfect good faith. The decree, by rescinding the contract, affirms the material charges of fraud stated in

44

SUPREME. COURT.
[Smith vs. Richardsq

the bill. After a careful consideration of the evidence in the xecord,
these
my opinion is, that there is- no just foundation for, or proof
charges. I do not propose to' review the evidence, though .tOke a
verydiffrent view of it from what has been expressed in the opinion doWered by mybrother Barbour; andthere are, many facts
and circumstances, which have struck my mind with great force,
which, I regret to find, are not deemed of equal importance by
my brethren. I am -not willing, by my silence, to sanction imputations upon the appellant, which cast so deep a- shade upon
his character, which the record showafitts hitherto been without
stain or reproach. In my opinion, th6 ,appellant stands acquitted
of fraud, the victim, if you please, of a heated and deluded imagination, indulging in golden dreams; but in this respect he is in the
same predicament with the appellee, and none other.
Mr. Justice M'L.EAN dissented, stating that he agreed altogether
with Mr. Justice Story.
Mr. Justice BALDWIN dissented, both, as to the facts, and the law
as stated in the opinion of the Court delivered by Mr. Justice
Barbour.
On appeal from the 'Circuit Court of the United States for the
southern district of New York. This cau1se came on to be heard on
the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United
.States for the southern district of New York, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, it is adjudged and decreed by
this. Court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

NOTE.-LThe counsel for the appellant afterwards presented a
petition, praying for a re-hearing of this"case, but the Court unanimously overruled the application.

