SUPREME COURT.

CHARLES KING,

APPELLANT,

VS.

HEIR S AT IAW OF GEORGE

JOSIAS

KING,

THOMPSON

DECEASED,

AND

OTHERS,

APPELLEES.

A bill was filed claiming a specific performance of an alleged contract to convey a house
and lot in Georgetown, for the benefit of the wife of the complainant, the complainant
having expended a large sum of money in improving the property, in the expectation
that it would be conveyed as required by the bill. The Court not considering that sufficieht evidence of an agreement tQ convey the property was given, ordered that the property shouW be sold, and out of the proceeds*that t advances made by the complainant
should be repaid. The property sold for a sum far less than the amount expended.
Held that the balance unpaid after the sale, was not a debt due by the estate of the father
of the wife, and could not be claimed of his representatives.

ON appeal for the Circuit Court of the United States of the District of Columbia, for the county of Washington.
In December, 1822, the appellant filed in the Circuit Court, a creditor's bill in the usual form, against the appellees, praying for the
sale of the real estate of George King, deceased, in aid of his personal estate. It appeared that George King had died intestate, and
insolvent, in 1820; and with the assent of the defendants a decree of
sale of his real estate was nade in January, 1823. - Under this decree sales were made, reported, and confirmed; and in March, 1831, a
final sale of all the real estate was made except a house and lot on
Civil alley in Georgetown,which sale, on the claim of Josias Thompson and wife, was set aside in April, 1831. ]As the sales were made,
audits of the accounts of the estate and-the claims were made from
March, 1.827, to March, 1836. On the last report of the audito.r
coming before the Court, Alexander Caldwell, administrator of
Josias Thompson, who had become deceased, exhibited to the Circuit Court a claim against George King for a dividend out of the
assets of his estate; and on his motion the auditor's report was recomniitted.
The record made the case of George King's heirs and others, appellants, vs. Josias Thompson and wife, 9 Peters, 204, a part of this case.
Josias Thompson and wife, in the case referred to, had claimed of
the heirs of George King, that the house and lot on Civil. alley in
Georgetown'should be conveyed to them, alleging that an agreement
to that effect had been made with them in his lifetime by George
King, Josias Thompson having married the daughter of George
King; and in consideration of this agreement, Josias Thompson had
laid out four thousand dollars in buildings and improvements on the
lot. The Court not being satisfied upon the evidence that a decree
for the conveyance of the property should be made, ordered that a
sale of the property should be made, and that the proceeds should
be first applied to repay to Josias Thompson the sum of four thousand dollars laid out on the same, and that the balance should be
paid over for the benefit of the creditors of George King.
Under this decree the property was sold, and it produced the sum

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

129

Charles King vs. Josias Thompson et al.]
of eight hundred and twenty-seven dollars, leaving of the sum
expended by Josias Thompson, three thousand one hundred and
dollars, unpaid.
.seventy-three
In April, 1837,
the administrator of Josias Thompson claimed
from
the estate of George King a dividend, on the sum of four thousand
dollars, the amount laid out on the house and lot, being two thousand six hundred and-twenty-six dollars, less the sum of eight hundred and twenty-seven dollars, the proceeds of the house and lot.
This claim was made on the allegation that Josias Thompson was
a creditor of George King to the amount of four thousand dollars,
by the expenditure of that sum on the house and lot; and that he
was entitled to come in and have, on that amount, an equal dividend
with the other creditors of the estate of George King, deducting the
proceeds of the property in Georgetown.
The Circuit Court made a decree allowing to the administrator of
Josias Thompson the amount claimed by him; and the defendants
prosecuted this appeal.
The case was argued by Mr. Clement Cox for the appellant, and
by Coxe for the appellees.
Mr. Cox for the appellant insisted:
1. That the decree in,9 Peter's Rep. 2Q4, does not operate as an
estoppal of the exceptions, the issues in this case being different.-I
Starkie on. Evidence, 202; Collinson vs. Owens, 6 Gill; and Johns. 4.
11.
2. That otherwise the exceptions in- the Circuit Court were well
taken, and ought to have been allowed. He cites, in support of the
1st exception taken below, 9 Peter's Rep. 204; Briscoe vs. King,
Cro. Jas. 281: and in support of 3d exception, Strike vs.,M'Donald
and Son, 2 Har. and Gill, 181; Harwood vs. Rawling's Heirs, 4 Har.
and John. 126; Duvall vs. Green, lb. 270.
As to the first point. The parties in this case are different from
those before this Court in the case in 9 Peters. These are creditors
of George King; and as that was a proceeding for a specific performance of an alleged contract with George King, to which these cred-itors could not be parties, the decree of the Court could not be ai
estoppal.
In that case no claim of indebtedness was raised or presented4
against the estate of George King. It was commenced and prosecuted on the allegation that the property on which the money had
been expended, had been promised to the wife of Josias Thompson,
the daughter of George King; and its sole purpose was to obtain a
conveyance of the property.
There was no contract made with George King, upon which the
money was expended by Josias Thompson, for the benefit of George
King; and this Court will not see in the case any thing to found a
contract of this nature. The whole object of the proceeding in the
case in 9 Peters -has been obtained. The complainant in that case
17

130

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles King vs. Josias Thompson et al.]

has drained the whole of the proceeds of the sale of the house and
lot.
The claim of Josias Thompson was complete, such as it was at
the death of George King in 1820; 'and until 1837 no assertion is
made by Josias Thompson or by any one for him, that the estate of
George King was indebted to him. In his lifetime, Josias Thompson made no claim; it was left to his administrator to present and
assert it. It is at an end, by force of the statute of limitations.
A mortgage does not imply a personal obligation for the payment
of any portion of the debt which the property mortgaged may not
produce by a sale. The saving in a mortgage is for the benefit of
the mortgagor, Briscoe vs. King, Cro. Jas. 281.
Coxe for the appellees contended that the decree of the Circuit
Court was right. It was founded on the report of/the auditor, who
it is to be presumed had full evidence of the facts on which the report is founded.
The lien on the house and lot for advances made by Josias Thompson, was established by the decree of the Court in the case in, 9
Peters. The balance, beyond what the house and lot would produce by a sale, was a debt due by the estate of George King. The
claim of the administrator of Josias Thompson is in full accordance
with the principles established by this Court, in its decision in 9 Peters.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the Court.
In 1812, Thompson married the daughter of King, who, being a
man of considerable estate, offered to give Thompson a house and
lot in Georgetown, then in a dilapidated state, if Thompson would
repair the premises so as to make them a comfortable residence;
King saying, he intended the property for his daughter, the wife of
Thompson.
Thompson accepted the offer, went into possession, and expended
in repairs and improvements, four thousand dollars.
About 1816, Thompson claimed to have the property conveyed
to him by King, who refused; but offered to vest the title in trust
for Thompson's wife. Thompson made several alterative propositions ; one amongst others, that the house and lot should be valued
as of the date when it was put into his possession; and that he
would pay the amount over to XKing, and take a title; which proposition the latter accepted: or, offered to convey a part of the lot,
including the house, to Thompson, and another part to Thompson's
wife. Under these circumstances, Thompson continued to occupy
the.premises for a time, and afterwards removed from, and rented
them.; King setting up no claim to have the property returned to
him.
In 182 0, he died, and the title descended on his heirs. King, at
his death, was largely indebted, say 36,000 dollars, and much over
the means of payment; his creditors filed a bill to have satisfaction

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

131

[Charles King vs. Josias Thompson et a].]

of their demands, out of the real as well as personal estate: and
the trustee appointed by the Circuit Court to sell the property,
amongst other lands, sold that claimed by Thompson. The latter
filed his bill to avoid the sale, and for a specific performance against
King's heirs, the trustees of the creditors, &c.; the record in which
cause, as reported in 9 Peters' Reports, is, by the exceptions and
an agreement, made a part of this proceeding.
The creditors denied the existence of the title set up by Thompson; claiming the house and lot as subject to King's debts, and went
tp issue. The Court -below decreed specific performance, from
which the defendants appealed to this Court, where the decree
below was reversed. But Thompson having an alternative prayer
in his bill, claiming priority of the general creditors of King, in the
form of a lien on the property, to the value of the improvements
he had put upon it; this Court held, that although there was not sufficient evidence to authorize a decree for title, still Thompson had,
by the rules of a Court of Equity, a lien for the money expended
on the improvements: and the cause was remanded with a mandate
that the property should be, advertised and sold, and the proceeds
of the sale be applied: first, to the satisfaction of the money expended by Thompson in making the improvements; "and the balance, if any, to be paid over for the benefit of the creditors of
King."'
The property was accordingly sold, and brought little more than
800 dollars, leaving upwards of 3000 dollars unsatisfied.
The trustee of the creditors of King's estate, from time to time,
made various sales and reports; and at April term; 1837, reported
that Alexander Caldwell, the administrator of Thompson, (then deceased,) had presented as a debt due from the estate, the balance not
refunded to Thompson by the sale of the house and lot. The other
creditors resisted the claim, as forming no demand on the estate;
and insisted Thompson's remedy extended only to the property improved and fixed with the lien, by the decree of the Supreme Court.
But the Circuit Court overruled the exception, and adjudged that
Thompson's administrator should come in for an equal dividend
with the general creditors.
From this order the creditors appealed. Thompson, by his bill
to subject the house and lot, claimed a priority of lien, and had it,
allowed to him, in exclusion ofthe general creditors; he proceeded.
against the thing, and did not set up any personal demand extending beyond the lien, against 'the other estate of King: and we are
clearly of opinion none exists. And therefore order, that so much
of the proceeding in the Circuit Court, as allowed the administrator of Thompson to come in with .the general creditors of King,
to receive a dividend founded on said claim, be reversed; and that
the cause be remanded for further proceedings.
This cause Lcame on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United $fates, for the District of Co-

132

SUPREME COURT.
[CharI~s King vs. Josias Thompson et al.]

lumbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is adjudged and decreed
by this Court, that so -much of the decree of the said Circuit
Court in this cause, as allowed the administrator of Thompson
to come in with the general creditors of King, to receive a dividend
founded on his claim, be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with
costs; and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to
the said Circuit Court, for further proceedings to be had therein, in
conformity to the opinion of this Court.

