JANUARY TERM, 1839.

JOHN F. STEIN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, VS. WILLIAM BOWMAN AND
OTHERS, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

Certain German documents were offered in evidence by the plaintiff, in the District Court
of Louisiana, for the purpose of using such parts of them as contained depositions which
related to the pedigree of the plaintiff, which were overruled by the District Court, on the
ground that they were not duly authenticated. By the Court:'In the case of Church vs.
Hubbart, 2 Cranch, 187, this Court held, that the certificate of a consul, under his consular seal, is not a sufficient authentication of a foreign law to make it evidence; it not
being one of his consular flnctions to grant such certificates. And also, that the proceedings of a foreign Court, under the seal of a person who styles himself the Secretary
of Foreign Affairs in Portugal, is not evidence. On the principles of this case, the Circuit Court very properly rejected the depositions offered. The certificate and seal of the
minister resident for Great Britain, from Hanover, is not a proper authentication of the
proceedings of a foreign Couwt, or of the proceedings of an officer authorized to take
depositions. It is not connected in any way with the functions of the minister. His certificate and seal could only authenicate those acts which are appropriate to his office.
The only mode in which depositions can be taken in a foreign country, is under a commission.
No rule is better established than that a party cannot be a witness in his own case.
The objection tothe competency of a party to a suit as a witness, does not arise so much
from the small pecuniary liability to the payment of the costs, as from that strong bias
which every party to a suit must naturally feel; and this influence is not the less dangerous, if the party be unconscious of its existence. Every individual who prosecutes or
defends a suit, is, in the nature of things, disposed to view most favourably his own side
of the controversy, and, with-no small prejudice, the side of his adversary. To admit a
party on the record, under any circumstances, to be sworn as a witness in chief, would
be attended with great danger. It would lead to perjuries, and the most injurious consequences, in the administration of justice.
From necessity, in cases of pedigree, hearsay evidence is adtoissible. But this rule is
limited to the members of the family, who may be supposod to have known the relationship which existed in the different branches. The declaration of these individuals,
they being dead, may be given in .evidence to prove pedigre. And so is reputation;
which is the hearsay of those who may be supposed to have known the tact,
handed
down from one to another; evidence. As evidence of this description must vary with
the circumstances of each case, it is difficult, if not impracticable, to deduce from the
books any precise and definite rule on the suoject.
It is not every statement or tradition in a family that can be admitted as evidence. The
tradition must be from persons having such a connexion with the party to whom it relates,
that it is natural and likely, from their domestic habits and connexions, they are speaking the truth, and that they could not be mistaken.
-The declarations offered as evidence were made subsequent to the commencement of the
contioversy, and, in fact, after the suit was commenced. It would be extremely dangerous'to receive hearsay declarations in evidence respecting any.matter, after the controversy has commenced. This would enable a party, by ingenious contrivances, to manu.
facture evidence to sustain his cause. It is therefore, essential, when declarations are
offered as evidence, that they should have been made before the controversy originated ;
and at a time and under circumstances when the person making them could have no
motive to misrepresent the facts.
It is a general rule, that neither husband nor wife can be a witness for or against each
other. This rule is subject to some exceptions, as when the husband commits an offenc,
against the'person of his wife.
The husband and wife may be called as witnesses in the same case, and if in their statement
-of facts they should contradict each other, that would not destroy the competency of
either. It would not follow from such contradiction, that either was guilty of perjury.'
And in some cases, the wife may be a witness under peculiar circumstances, where the
husband may be interested in the question, and, to some extent, in the event of th.
cause.

210

SUPREME COURT.

[John F. Stein am.William Bowman et al.]
The wife bannot be a witness to criminate her husband, or to state that which she has
learned from him in their confidential inteirourse. The rule which protects the domestic
relations from exposure, rests upon considerations connected with the peace of families;
and it is considered that this principle does notfaford protection to the husband and wife,
while they are at liberty to invoke it or not, at their discretion, when the question is pro.
pounded ; but it renders them incompetent to disclose facts in evidence in violation of the
rule. The husband being dead, does not weaken the principle. It would seem rather to
inctease than lessen the force of the rule.
To sustain a claim to the admission of the deposition of a witness in evidence, the affidavit of a person who represented himself to be the agent of the plaintiff, stated that the
witness had left Louisiana before the commencement of the suit, and ascended the Mississippi,.with the intention of going to Ohio; and that since then, the person who made
the affidavit had not heard from him, although he had made inquiries. By the Court :
This does not amount to that degree of diligence which the law requires to introduce
wcondary evilehce.

IN error to the District Court of the United States for the eastern
district of Louisiana.
hI the District Court of the eastern district of Louisiana, on the
eighth day of April, 18316, Johann Frederick Stein, an alien and a
subject of the King of Hanover, presented a petition, stating that he
was the sole and lawful heir of Nicholas Stein, or sometimes called
Nicholas Stone, who had died some time- before, in the' parish of
St. Tammany, in the state of Louisiana. The petition prayed that
William Bowman, who had been appointed curator of the estate
of the deceased Stein, by the proper tribunal, should be decreed to
account for the estate and effects received by hinm, and to deliver to
the petitioner the property of the succession which had not been
sold, and to pay to him the amount in his hands.
The answer of William Bowman, the curator, denied that the
petitioner, Johann Frederick Stein, was the, heir or related to the
deceased Nicholas Stein, or Stone; and averred that the claim was
interposed to vex and harass the respondent, and the true heirs of
Nicholas Stein.
Afterwards, Andreas Stein, residing in the kingdom of Hanover,
presented a petition to the District Court, stating that in April, 1834,
he had applied to the Court of Probate, of New Orleans, claiming,
the succession to Nicholas Stein, as the heir of the deceased, and
that by the unjust interference of Johann Frederick Stein, he had
been prevented recovering the same.
Subsequently, Johann Stein, Anna Sophia Stein, wife of Mathias
Ahreus, and Luer Stein, a minor, assisted by his curator or trustee,
and by his guardian, all of the kingdom of Hanover, filed their
petition in the Circuit Court, stating that they are the only heirs of
Nicholas Stein, and that in 1835 they had instituted a suit against
William Bowman, which suit is still pending. They aver that the
claim of Johann Frederick Stein is fraudulent, and-thathe is not the
heir of Nicholas Stein, as he alleges. They pray leave to introduce in
the suit, and state that William Bowman is a mere stakeholder.
William Bowman afterwards filed a petition in the District Court,
setting forth that individuals belonging to three different families,
the petitioners, pretend to be the nearest relations of the late Nicho-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

211

-[John F. Sein vs. William Bowman et aL]

las Stein, and to be entitled to his estate; and he asks, as he is only
a stakeholder, that the parties contesting the- claims of each other
may be called in to take cognizance of this suit, and defend him
against it.
The petitioner, Johann Frederick Stein, put in a general replication to each of the petitions of intervention.
The case was, on the application of William Bowman, referred
to a jury, and on the 3d of March, 1837, it came on for trial; and
the jury found a verdict for the defendant.
On the trial of the cause, bills of exceptions were signed by the
Court to the decisions of the Court, on points arising during the trial
of the cause.
The affidavit of John Rist was laid before the Court,.statingthat
he had made diligent inquiry for Francis Stuffle, whose deposition
was taken 'in the cause in the parish Court, between the plaintiff
hnd Bowman; "that be was unable to find him, and had been informed,'and truly believed he was dead; this information had been
derived from those who knew him."
The deposition also, stated, that Nicholas Mouzat, whose testimony was taken in the same cause, left Louisiana before the commencement of this suit, and ascended the Mississippi with the intention of going to the state of Ohio ; that he had not since heard
from him, although he had made inquiries for him.
The deposition of Francis Stuffle was then offered in evidence
by tthe plaintif and was admitted by the Court ; to which the defendaint excepted.
The defendant called the wife of Francis Stuffie, he being dead,
to prove that her husband had been bribed by John Rist to give
evidence in the case; and also to prove he had frequently told her
he knew nothing of the plaintiff, or of Nicholas.Stein. The plaintiff objected to the admission of the witness; but the Court allowbd
her to be sworn, and she gave her testimony. The plaintiff excepted.
The plaintiff then offered in evidence certain German documents,
to prove the pedigree of the petitioner, which were rejected by the
Court, as not being sufficiently authenticated; and to this rejection
the plaintiff excepted.
The depositions which were taken, and which, were -in the Ger,man language, were not signed by the deponents; and at the end
of each deposition, it is stated that each of the witnesses assented
to the same. A magistrate 'of the place certifies to this fact; and
this is attested under his seal by the "Royal British Hanoverian
Landrostey ;" and his signature is attested under his seal, by the
"Royal British Ianoverian Minister Residentis.",
The defendant, William Bowman, ivas, during the trial, admitted
as a witness by the Court, to testify as to the merits of the controversy. The plaintiff excepted to his admission.
The Court refused to admit Stultz as a, witness for the plaintiff,

212

SUPREME COURT.
(John F. Stein w. William Bowman et aLl

to prove that he had been in Hanover the preceding summer, and
there heard from many old persons of whom he inquired, that the
plaintiff was the brother of Nicholas Stein. The witness stated
that he had gone to Germany for the purpose of taking a deposition: the Court were of opinion, that the depositions of those persons
should have been taken.
The plaintiff prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was submitted to the Court, in printed arguments, by
Mr. Crittenden, for the plaintiff in error; and by Mr. Garland for
the defendant.
Mr. Crittenden, for the plaintiff in error, stated that:
The plaintiff, J. F. Stein, insists that the Court erred in all the
.opinions and decisions excepted on his part, and has prosecuted a
writ of error, to reverse the judgment rendered against him.
• A decision by this Court, on all the questions presented by these
bills of exceptions, will probably be necessary to the proper final
disposition of the case in the Court below, and, therefore, they are
all insisted upon, and submitted to this Court. If the single object
was merely a reversal of the judgment, it is supposed that errors
obvious and sufficient for the purpose are made manifest by the bills
of exceptions.
From the first exception, it appears that the Coirt permitted Bowman, the defendant, to become a witness ih his own case; and, in
the second, that a woman was permitted to violate the sacred confidence and intimacy of married life, by giving testimony to betray
and criminate 'her deceased husband. The law condemns it.
Starkie on Evidence, vol. ii. part 4, page 70.5, &c., and 709, &c.
,Mr. Garland, for the defendant in error.
Nicholas Stein, generally called and known as Nicholas Stone,
died in the parish of St. Tammany,. Louisiana, in the year 1833,
leaving an estate estimated to be worth about twenty-five thousand
dollars. In October 1833, Bowman, one of the present defendants,
was appointed by the proper tribunal, curator of the estate, and
took upon himself the administration.
The plaintiff alleges that Nicholas Stein died without leaving
either legal ascendants, descendants, or collaterals, except himself;
and that he is the only brother and sole heir. That the term allowed
by. law to Bowman to administer the estate has expired, and he is
entitled to the whole of it. He therefore asks for an account and
payment of the amount that has been received.
Bowman denies positively that the plaintiff is the brother or any
relation of Nicholas Stein, deceased; and says that his claim to the
estate is unfounded and frandulent, and intended to defraud, vex,
and harass him and the real heirs.
Andrew Stein intervenes in the suit, and alleges he is the nearest
of kin, and sale heir of Nicholas Stein, and claims 'the estate

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

213

(John F. Stein vs. William Bowman et al.]

and that he has instituted a suit in one of the state tribunals, to wit,
the Probate Court of the parish of St. Tammany, to recover it;
which suit was then, and is now pending.
Johann Stein, Anna Sophia Stein, wife of Mathias Ahreus, and
Luer Stein, a minor, also intervene in the suit; and say they are the
only heirs of Nicholas Stein, and claim the estate.
In answer to all these petitions, Bowman, the defendant, answers, that he is merely a stakeholder; that he has three suits pending against him to recover the same property, to wit, the case now
on trial, and two suits in St. Tammany.
The plaintiff and appellant answers the two petitions of intervention, and take issue with the parties named in them, as to their
claims to be recognised as heirs.
Nicholas Stein, it appears from the testimony, came to the United
States about thirty years previous to his death, from the kingdom
of Hanover. After his arrival, he never heard from any of his
relations, or did he ever have any intercourse with them, except
writing one letter, which is ip the possession of ore of the interpleaders, addressed to him as a brother.
The recoxd shows that a man named Rist (who is a gambler in
Louisiana) is the person who is prosecuting this claim in the name
of the plaintiff and appellant. We allege it is fraudulent, and is
attempted to be sustained by perjury; and that Rist is the party
really interested.
It also very satisfactorily appears that a suit was instituted in 1834,
by the appellant, or rather by Rt, in his name, in the Probate
Court of the parish of St. Tammany, against the appellees, to recover this same property. This was in the parish where Nicholas
Stein had resided many years previous to his death, and where all
the circumstances rAating to his affairs were known. That suit
was decided against the plaintiff on the merits. He took an appeal
to the Silreme Court of the state, where every point taken in the
inferior Court, and decided upon in the course of the trial, was
affirmed; but that tribunal set aside the final judgment on the
merits, without giving any reason for so" doing, and entered up a
judgment of nonsuit. The cause was tried by a jury, and after an
investigation of three days a general verdict was rendered in favour
of the defendant, on the 4th of March, 1837.
On the 11th of March, 1837, the plaintiff, in an' informal manner,
moved the Court for a new trial, on various grounds; which motion
was rejected, because not asked for within the delay prescribed by
law and the rules of the 'Court. It will not be denied, that so far as
all questions of practice are involved, that the laws of the state of
Louisiana, and the decisions of its Courts, are to govern, in the
Courts of the United States. 7 Laws United States, p. 315.
in this case a new trial cannot be awarded, and the cause remanded, even if the Court should be of opinion there was error in
the decision of any of the points made in the District Court; be-

214

SUPREME COURT.
[John F. Stein vs. William Bowman et al.]

cause the appellant has abandoned or lost the right he may have
had to have his case revised or examined in that way. A new
trial being one of the modes prescribed by law of having a judgment revised or re-examined, if the party does not avail himself of
it in the manner and within the time directed, he can no more
have that benefit than 'he could that of ahn appeal, if he had not
taken it within the time and in the manner directed by law.
Louisiana Code of Practice, articles 556, 557. 4 Martin's Reports,
N. S. 532.

The manner of applying for a new trial, and the time within
which the application must be made, is specially and particularly
described; and the appellant has not complied with the law in a
single particular. - Louisiana Code of Practice, articles 558, 559,
560, 561.

Taking it for granted that the Court will not remand the cause,
it must be examined on its merits; and it is submitted whether
there are sufficient grounds to set aside the verdict of the jury, and
reverse the judgment. The law of the case is very plain, if the
plaintiff has sustained his allegations by proof Is he the sole relative in the ascending, descending, or collateral line to Nicholas
Stein, deceased? .If he is, there is an end of the question. Is there
enough on the record to satisfy the Court that he is, even admitting
all the evidence rejected in the Court below ? -It is not sufficient
the plaintiff should show he is a brqther; but before he can claim
the whole estate he must show the father and mother of Nicholas
Stein are dead. If both or either of them are alive, the brother
cannot inherit the whole estate; because in Louisiana ascendants
inherit as well as brothers and sisters. Ascendants are what are
called forced heirs, and like descendants, cannot be disinherited,
even by testament, but for cause. Fathers or mothers do not entirely exclude brothers or sisters, br their descendants; but, before
these last can inherit solely, they must show no forced heirs are
living.

Louisiana Code, articles 883. 899. 907, 908. 1491, 1482.

12 Martin's Reports, 390.
As to the plaintiff's first bill of exception, it is not necessary to
say any thing. It is taken to the admission of Bowman's affidavit,
offered for the purpose of affecting the jurisdiction of the Court;
and as the Court afterwards decide that the exception to :the jurisdiction was made too late, there is' no necessity for it, unless the
Court shall consider it in connexion with the defendant's third bill
of exception.
'The second bill of the plaintiff is taken to the rejection of certain
documents in the German language. These are the same papers
that were offered in evidence in the first suit of the Probate Court,
rejected by it, and that decisioi affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the state of Louisiana. It is sufficient to refer to that decision.
La~iisiana Reports, vol.-, page -,.and the decisions therein referred to.

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

215

[John F. Stein vs. William Bowman et al.]

The plaintiff's third bill is to the admission of Bowman as a witness, The bill does not specify any particular objection, whioh it
certainly ought to do, and the Court is left to conjecture the ground
of exception. No objection to the defects in the bill are intended to
be waived; on the contrary, we insist on all the legal exceptions to
it. It is supposed the objection to Bowman is that he is a party on
the record. But the Court will recollect he has no personal interest
in the case. He is a mere stakeholder, ready to deliver any property
or money he has in possession to whoever is legally entitled to 'receive it. The plaintiff has never been recognised as an heir. If he
had been, and then Bowman refused to pay over, the case w'uld be
different.
As to tle
of heirs and their rights, before and after,
the Court is respectfully referred to Louisiana Code, articles -;
Louisiana Code of Practice, articles Nos. 1000-1004, and the
amendment at page 348.
Bowman is not individually liable for costs, until the plaintiff
shall be recognised as heir, and he has put him in delay ; until then
he is the representative of all persons interested, and the costs are
paid out of the estate. As a stakeholder, Bowman is a competent
witness.
The plaintiff's fourth bill is to4he rejection of Stultz as a witness.
The Court was certainly correct in rejecting his testimony. The
cases in which hearsay testimony is admitted are all specified. They
are exceptions to a general rule, and the counsel for the appellant
must show tha't this is one of the exceptions. It will be difficult, it
is believed, to convince the Court that/the authority referred to will
authorize the reception of the evidence of this witness. The persons
whose declarations are to be stated are alive. It is, besides, shown
to the Court that the plaintiff or appellant has alleged that he, had
documentary evidence of his being the heir, and that he offered it
in evidence, but it was rejected, because not presented in a legal
shape. Ancient boundaries and pedigree may sometimes be proved
by tradition, and the commoni understanding of old persons; but
affinity and the relationship of collateral heirs do not: come within
the rule.
The plaintiff's fifth bill is to the admission of Mrs. Stupfel, or
Stuffie, to testify as a witness. There is no known law, that prohibits man and wife from giving testimony in a cause between
third persons, or prohibits the wife from contradicting the husband, or proving any other facts she may know. She cannot
testify for or against him in a suit in which he is a party, or interested.
The plaintiff's sixth bill of exception is to the rejection of a deposition of a witness named Mouzat, which had been taken under a
commission issued in the suit, in the probate Court, and which the
plaintiff wished to read as evidence in this suit, on the pretext that
Mouzat was absent, and could not be found. The judge was not
.recognition

216

SUPREME COURT.
[John F. Stein v8. William Bowman et al.]

satisfied of his absence; it was not pretended he was dead. It does
not appear any effort was made to procure his attendance. or have
his-deposition taken.
The plaintiff's seventh bill of exception, is to the refusal of
the Court to award a new trial, or to permit a motion for it,
and the grounds to be filed. The district judge'was certainly
correct in his opinion. By the rules of the Court, the time had ex-.
pired, id the motion was not made in the manner or the time
prescribed by'law. Louisiana Code of Practice, articles Nos.
557-561.

If in conformity with this opinion, that the Court cannot send the
cause back for a. new trial, and it shall proceed to investigate the
merits, it will not perhaps be necessary to decide on any of the defendants' bills of exceptions. But if the Court slould determine to
send the cause back, contrary to expectation, or should it be considered necessary in the investigation, it is not intended to waive
any legal ground -taken in them.
The first exception of the defendants is to the reception by-the
district judge of a document called a deposition de bene esse, of a
person called Henry Munget. It is not taken by the authority of
any Court, nor is any notice given to the defendants of its being
taken. As to the first ground taken in the bill, see Louisiana Code
of Practice, articles 424-431, &c.; also, amendment, page 156. As
to the second and third grounds, it iq not necessary to prodluce authorities. The fourth .is settled by the decision given in the Supreme
Court of Louisiana, in this ease, already referred to.
The defendant's second exception is to the admission of the deposition of Francis Stupfel, or Stuffie. As to first and third grounds,
it is sufficient to refer ftgain to the. case between these parties in
the Supreme Court of Louisiana. As to the second a reference is
made to Code of Practice, articles 430-1-435, &c.
The verdict of the jury has negatived every allegation of the
plaintiff that he is a brother or heir of Nicholas Stein, deceased; and
it is presumed the Court will not disturb it.
Mr. Garland also submitted an additional printed argument.
'He stated, that as to the .plaintiff's third bill of exception, he
would refer the Court to Martin's Rep. N. 9. vol. iv. p. 21 ; and also
to page 72 of the same volume, and 10 Martin, 637, as applicable
to the point undet consideration, and to'several others in the case.
The Court are asked to attend particularly to what Bowman states
in his affidavit: it is, that Rist is the real party, having purchased
all the rights of Stein, the plaintiff, and he could prove it by witnesses who are named in the affidavit, who were afterwards introduced, and actually did prove it. The facts stated by Bowman
having been proved by other lgal testimony, the bill ought not - to
be noticed. 5 Martin's Rep. 2.13.
Bowman is competent to testify as to the identity or relationship
of Stein, the plaintiff, in a case where several are claiming the pro-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

217

[John F. Stein vs. William Bowman et all

perty in his possession. It is a matter of no concern to him who is
recognised as the heir. He has to pay to whoever shall recover.
The costs are paid out of the estate. His commissions, as curator.
are neither increased nor diminished, nor-has he any interest in the
event of the suit which will disqualify him. The case would be
different were a stranger claiming something of the curator as a
debt, or if he were claiming a debt, or the benefit of a contract.
The effect of his evidence then, would be to increase or diminish
the amount of the succession, and, consequently, the compensation
of the curator. Bowman is the legal agent of all the heirs, or those
claiming as such, until s5me one is recognised as heir according to
law. To test the competency of Bowman, the Court have only to
examine whether he will directly gain or lose any thing by the
event of this suit. -2 Martin's Rep. N. S. 333; 4 N. S. 539; 3 N. S.
11 ; also, 166.
The question raised by the plaintiff's fifth bill of exception is,
whether the widow of Francis Stuffle can testify to what her deceased husband told her previous to his death; which statement
would go to discredit his evidence. She is certainly a competent
witness to testify in the case, and the plaintiff must show such
questions as are propounded ought not to be answered. Has he done
so? By answering the question, would she criminate her husband,
subject him to any penalty or action of any kind? Clearly not, for
hs is beyond the reach of any legal proceedings. No breach of
confidence is involved, nor do the relations exist; in which it is the
object of the law to preserve harmony, by preventing the husband
or wife from testifying as to what one tells the other. The authority cited by the counsel does not go the length that is contended. It is hoped the Court will examine it particularly, and
reference is made to the second English edition of Starkie on Evidence, vol. ii. 401, 402, and the authorities there cited.
In the case of the King vs. the inhabitants of All Saints, Worcester, the Court evidently intended to narrow very much, if not
entirely contradict the positions previously taken, which Starkie
says were certainly too extensive and indefinite. The only effect
of the evidence of Mrs. Stuffle would be to cast a reflection upon
the memory of her deceased husband. During his lifetime she
might have been called to prove what might have disgraced him,
and he might have been compelled to answer himself a question
that would have had the. same effect. 1 Starkie, second English
edition, pages 167 to 172, inclusive.
The Court were also referred to the opinion of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana, in a suit between the same parties, decided on
the 21st of March, 1836.
Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.This case was brought originally in the District Court of the
Unitqd States for the eastern district of Louisiana; and on the
trial certain exceptions were taken to the ruling of the Court by the
VOL. XIII.-T
28

218

SUPREME COURT.
[John F. Stein v8. William Bowman st il.]

plaintiff, and which he now brings before this Court on a writ of
error.
The action was brought by petition, in the form peculiar to the
Courts of Louisiana, to compel the defendant to render an account
as curator of the estate of Nicholas Stone, or Stein, deceased.
The plaintiff represents himself as an alien, and as the only heir
at law of the deceased.
Some time after the defendant had answered the petition, Johann
Stein, and others, filed their petition of intervention, denying the
statements in the plaintiff's petition, and representing themselves to
be the true heirs of the deceased.
The cause was submitted to a jury; and on the trial, to sustain
his case, the plaintiff offered in evidence certain German documents,
for the purpose of using such parts of them as coniained the depositions which related to the pedigree of the plaintiff; which were
overruled by the Court, on the ground that they were not duly
authenticated. .And this constitutes the first exception.
Several depositions appear to have been taken, but none of them
were signed by the deponents. At the close of them it is stated:
"After the preceding depositions were read to the deponents, they
gave their assent to them and approbation.
[Seal.]
(Signed) R. V. D. Busseke.
Seen, for attestation of the preceding signature, of the Royal
Amtsvagtey Burgwedel.
Luneburg.
Royal British Hanoverian Landdrostey.
[Seal.]

Ruemern."

To which is added:"The subjoined signature of the Royal Britannic Land Bailiwick
at Luneburg is hereby attested.
Hamburg, Sept. 19th, 1834
Royal Britannic Hanoverian Minister Residentis.
Im Ausftrage by authority.
G. W. Kern."

[Seal.]
In the case of Churen vs. Hubbart, 2 Cranch, 187, this Court held
that a certificate of a consul under his consular seal, is not a sufficient authentication of a foreign law to go in, evidence; it not being
one of his consular functions to grant such certificates. And also
that the proceedings of a foreign Court, under the seal of a person
who styles himself the Secretary of Foreign Affairs in Portugal, is
not evidence.
On the principle of this case, it would seem that the Court very
properly rejected the depositions offered.
The certificate and seal of the minister resident from Great Britain
in Hanover, is not a proper authentication for the proceedings of a
foreign Court, or of the proceedings of an officer authorized to take

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

219

(John F. Stein vs. William Bowman et all

depositions. It is not connected in any way with the functions of
the minister. His certificate and seal could only authenticate those
acts which are appropriate to his office.
The authority to take the depositions by the person before whom
they were taken no where appears; and it is not shown that the
Royal Britannic Hanoverian Land Bailiwick, Ruemern, was authorized to attest, as he has done, the signature of R. V. D. Busseke.
If tha attestation of the signature, and right of the person who
administered the oaths, were duly certified under the seal of a
responsible officer, whose appropriate duty it was to give such certificate, it might be received, so far as the authentication goes, as
prima facie evidence, though not under the great seal of the state. It
may be proper, however, -to remark, (though the point was not
raised in the Court below,) that if the authentication had been sufficient, the depositions would have been inadmissible, they not
having been taken under a commission; which is the only mode by
which depositions in a foreign country can be taken.
In the course of the trial, Bowman, the defendant, was admitted
as a witness by the Court; and, being sworn, gave evidence to the
jury respecting the merits of the case. And to this decision of the
Court, overruling the objection made, the plaintiff also excepted.
No rule is better established, than that a party, in an action at
law, cannot be a witness in his own case.
In the case of Scott vs. Lloyd, 12 Peters, 149, this'Court said,
"The decision in 1 Peters, C. C. R. 301, where the Court held a
party named on the record might be released, so as to constitute
him a competent witness, has been cited and relied on in the
argument." "Such a rule," the Court remarked, "would hold out
to parties a strong temptation to perjury; and we think it is not
sustained either by principle or authority."
Bowman was a party on the record, was curator, as represented;
and was prifna facie liable for the costs of suit.
But if there eould have been a release for the costs executed, or
the money to cover the costs had been paid into Court, his competency would not have been restored.
The objection to his competency does not arise so much from the
small pecuniary liability to the payment of costs, as from that strong
bias which every party to a suit must naturally feel. And this
influence is not the less dangerous, if the party be unconscious of its
existence. Every individual who prosecutes or defends a suit is, in
the nature of things, disposed to view most favourably his own side
o'f the controversy, and, with no small degree of prejudice, the side
of his adversary. We think, therefore, to admit a party on the
record, under any circumstances, to be sworn as a witness in chief,
would be attended with great danger. It would lead to perjuries,
and the most injurious consequences, in the administration of justice.
We think, therefore, the Court erred in admitting Bowman as a
witness.

220

SUPREME COURT.
[John F. Stein vs. William Bowman et al.]

The next exception of the plaintiff arises from the rejection of
Stultz as a witness, who was introduced to prove that he had been
in -anover, in Germany, "last summer ;" and there heard, from
many old persons of whom he inquired, that the plaintiff was the
brother of Nicholas- Stone, deceased.
And this Court have no doubt that this evidence was properly
overruled by the District Court.
From necessity, in cases of pedigree, hearsay evidence is admissible. But this rule is limited to the members of the family, who may
be supposed to have known the relationships which existed in its
different branches. The declarations of these individuals, they being
dead, may be given in evidence to prove pedigree; and so is
reputation, which is the hearsay of those who may -be supposed to
have known the fact, handed down from one to *another, evidence.
As evidence of this description must vary by the circumstances of
each case,, it is difficult, if not impracticable, to deduce from the
books any precise and definite rule on the subject.
"It is not every statement or tradition in the family that can be
admitted in evidence." The tracation must be from persons having
such a connexion with the party to whom it relates, that it is natural and likely, from their domestic habits and connexions, that they
are speaking the truth, and that they could not be mistaken. 1 Philips, 174. 2 Dallas, 116.
The declarations proposed to be proved by the witness, do not
appear to have been made by members of the family, oT by persons
who had such connexions with the deceased as to have a personal
knowledge of the facts stated. And these persons, for aught that
appears, are still living; and their depositions might be taken.
On both these grounds, the evidence was inadmissible. But there
is another ground on which the opinion of the District Court can be
sustained, and it is proper to state it.
The declarations offered as evidence were made subsequent to
the commencement of this controversy, and, in fact, after the suit
was commenced.
It would be extremely dangerous to receive hearsay declarations
in evidence respecting any matter, after the controversy has commenced. This would enable a party, by ingenious contrivances, to
manufacture evidence to sustain his cause. By interrogatories propounded in a cautious manner to unsuspecting individuals, he might
elicit the answers he most desired.
It is therefore essential, when declarations are offered as evidence,
that they should have been made before the controversy originated,
and at a time, and under circumstances, when the person making
them could have no motive to misrepresent the facts. 4 Camp. 409.
,Case of the Berkley Peerage.
The plaintiff having read the deposition of Francis Stufle, deceased, in evidence, the defendant called the wife of the deceased
to prove, as stated in the bill of exceptions, that her husband had
been bribed by John Rist to give evidence in that case, and also to

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

22

[John P. Stein vs. William Bowman et al.]

prove that he had frequently told her he knew nothing of the plaintiff, or of Nicholas Stone deceased. The plaintiff objected to the
swearing of the witness, but the Court overruled the objection, and
permitted the witness to give evidence. To this opinion the plaintiff excepted.
It is a general rule that neither a husband nor wife can be awitness
for or against the other. Co. Lit. 6, h. Hawk, b. 2, ch. 46, s.70.
Gilb. Ev. II. Bull. N. P. 286. Fitch vs. Hill et al. II Mass. 286.

This rule is subject to some exceptions; as where the husband
commits an offence against the person of his wife. I Hale, P. C.
301. Hawk. b. 2, c. 46, s. 77. Bull. N. P. 287. 1 Bl. Corm. 413.
The wife may exhibit articles of the peace against her husband.
Bull. N. P. 287.
The husband and wife may be called as witnesses in the same
case, and if in their statement of facts they should contradict eaeh
other, that would not destroy the competency of either. It would.
not follow, from such contradiction, that either was guilty of perjury.
And in some cases, the wife may be a witness, under peculiar
circumstances, where the husband may be interested in the question,
and, to some extent, in the event of the cause. 8 East, 203. Gilb.
Ev. 139.
In the case of the King vs. Cliviger, 2 Term, 268, the Court
held that a wife should not be called in any case to give evidence
even tending to criminate her husband. Mr. Justice Grose, in that
case, observed, "In all the books which treat of evidence, there are
certain technical rules laid down, which are highly beneficial to
the public, and ought not to be departed from. Some of these
relate to husband and wife; and we find the general rule as to them
to be founded, not on ground of interest, but of policy, by which
it is established that a wife shall not be called to giye testimony in
any degree to criminate her husband. And Lord Holt says, that
she shall not be called, indirectly, to criminate him. And the rule
seems to have governed all the decisions from that time to the present."
In the case of the Executrixes of Stead vs. Pritchett, 6 Term R.
680, the Court said, "Rateliff is one of the plaintiffs on the record;
he has, therefore, an interest in the cause, and that cannot be prejudiced by any act, or by the evidence of the wife."
In the case of Aveson vs. Kinnaird, 6 East, 192, the counsel asserted in the argument, that the declarations of the wife could not
be permitted as evidence to show that her husband had been guilty
of fraud, or in any manner to criminate him. And he contended that
the rule of law was general, and extended even to cases where the
wife was afterwards divorced from her husband. Lord Ellenborough, assenting to the rule, observed, "that goes on the ground,
that the confidence which subsisted between them at the time, shall
not be violated in consequence of any future separation."
And his Lordship observes, in the same case, "It is sound doo,
T2

222

SUPREME COURT.
[John F. Stein v8. William Bowman et al.]

trine, that trust and confidence between man and wife shall not be
betrayed."
In this case, however, the Court permitted the declarations of the
wife to be given in evidence, as to the bad state of her health about
the time the policy of insurance on her life was executed, the action
being founded on such policy.
The above case of the King vs. Cliviger has been somewhat considered in the Court of King's Bench, in the case of the King vs.
Inhabitants of All Saints, in Worcester; and the Court seemed to
think that the rule laid down in that case was too large and genera.
But, at the same time, they observed, that the rule in the case of
the King vs. Cliviger, admitting it to its utmost extent, did not
exclude the evidence in the case then -under discussion. Philips
Ev. 69.
It has been said, that on the grounds of state policy, the wife is
a competent witness against her husband in case of treason. Bull.
N. P. 289. 1 Brownl. 47. Bac. Ab. Ev. A. 1. But it has since
been settled that the wife is not bound to discover the treason of the
husband. 1 Brownli. 47.
The law does not seem to be entirely settled how far, in a collateral
case, a wife may be examined on matters inwhich her husband may
be eventually interested. Nor whether in such a case, she may not
be asked questions as to facts, that may, in some measure, tend to
criminate her husband, but which afford no foundation for a prosecution. The decisions which have been mae on these points, seem
to have been influenced by the circumstances of each case, and they
are somewhat contradictory. It is, however, admitted in all the
cases, that the wife is not competent, except in cases of violence
upon her person, directly to criminate her husband; or to disclose
that which she has learned, from him in their confidential intercourse.
Some colour is found in some of the elementary works for the
suggestion that this rule, being founded on the confidential relations
of the parties, will protect either from the necessity of a disclosure ;
but will not prohibit either from voluntarily making any disclosure
of matters received in confidence ; and the wife and the husband
have been viewed, in this respect, as having a right to protection
from a disclosure, on the same principle as an attorney is protected
from a disclosure of the facts communicated to him by his client.
The rale which protects an attorney in such a case, is founded on
public policy, and may be essential in the administration of justice.
But this privilege is the privilege of the client, and not of the attorney. The rule which protects the domestic relations from exposure, rests upon considerations connected with the peace of families.
And it is conceived that this principle does not merely afford protection to the husband and wife, which they are at liberty to invoke
or not, at their discretion, when the question is propounded ; but it
renders them incompetent to disclose facts in evidence in violation

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

223

(John F. Stehi vs. William Bowman et al.]

of the rule. And it is well that the principle does not rest on the
discretion of the parties. If it did, in most instances it would afford no substantial protection fo pergons uninstructed in their rights,
and thrown off their guard and embarrassed by searching interrogatories.
In the present case the witness was called to discredit her husband; to prove, in fact, that he had committed perjury; and the
establishment of the fact depended on his own confessions. Confessions which, if ever made, were made under all the confidence
that subsists between husband and wife. It is true the husband
was dead, but this does not weaken the principle. Indeed, it would
seem rather to increase than lessen the force of the rule.
Can the wife, under such circumstances, either voluntarily, be permitted, or by force of authority be compelled to state facts in evidence,
which render infamous the character of her husband. We think,
most clearly, that she cannot be. Public policy and established
principles forbid it.
This rule is founded upon the deepest and soundest principles of
our nature. Principles which have grown out of those domestic
relations, that constitute the basis of civil society; and which are
essential to the enjoyment of that confidence which should subsist
between those who are connected by the 'nearest and dearest relations of life. To break down or impair the great principles which
protect the sanctities of husband and wife, would be to destroy the
best solace of human existence.
We think that the Court erred in overruling the. objections to this
witness.
The next exception by the plaintiff arises from the rejection of
the deposi *-n of 'Mouzat, which had been taken in the case of the
parties in the parish Court.
To lay the foundation for reading this deposition, John Rist, who
represents himself to be the agent of the plaintiff, swore that the
witness left Louisiana before the commencement of this suit, and
ascended the Mississippi, with the intention of going to Ohio; and
that since then he has not heard from him, although he has made
inquiries.
This does not amount to that degree of diligence which the law
requires to introduce secondary evidence, and such was the deposition offered.
The plaintiff might have taken out a subpoena, the return of
which, not served, would have been better evidence that the wit-,
ness'was not within the judicial distric. We think, therefore, that
the Court did not err in rejecting the deposition.
For the errorg above specified, the judgment of the District Court
must be reversed; and the cause sent down for further proceedings.
Mr. Justice BAIDWIN dissented.

224

SUPREME COURT.
[John F. Stein vs. William Bowman et al.]

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the eastern district
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged, by this Court, that the judgment of
the said District Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed with costs; and that this cause be, and the same is hereby,
remanded to the said District Court for further proceedings to be
had therein, in conformity to law and justice, and the opinion of
this Court.

