JANUARY TERM, 1839.

THE COLUMBIAN INSURANCE COMPANY OF ALEXANDRIA, PLAIN.
TIFFS IN ERROR, vs. ASHBY AND STRIBLING AND OTHERS, DEFEND
ANTS -IN ERROR.
The brig Hope, with a cargo, bound from Alexandria, in the District of Columbia, for
Barbadoes, insured in Alexandria, was assailed, while standing down the Chesapeake
bay, by a storm which soon after blew to almost a hurricane. The vessel was steered
towards a point in the shore for safety, and was anchored in three fathoms water; the.
sails were furled, and all efforts were made by using the cables and anchors to prevent her
going on shore. The gale increased, the brig struck adrift, and dragged three miles; the
windlass was ripped up, the chain cable parted, and the vessel commenced driftng again,
the whole scope of both cables beiag paid out. The brig th~n brought up below Craney Island, in two and a half fathoms water; where she thumped or struck on the shoals.
on a bank, and her head swinging round brought her broad side to the sea. The cap..
tain finding no possible means of saving the vessel and cargo, and preserving the lives.
of the crew, slipped her cables, and ran her on shore for the safety of the crew and
preservation of the vessel and cargo. The vessel was run far up on a bank, where after.
the storm she was left high and dry, and it was found impossible to get her off. The
lives of all the persons were saved.; the whole cargo of the value of $5335, insured for
$4920, was taken out safely, and the vessel, her tackle, &c., were sold for $256. Held,
,that tho insurers of the' cargo were liable for a general average.
The question of contribution cannot depend upon the amount of the damage sustained by.
the sacrifice of the property, for that would be to say, that if a man lost all his property,.
for the common benefit, he should receive nothing; but if he lost a-part only, he should
receive full compensation. No such principle is applied to the case of good' sacrificed,
for the common safety ; why then, should it be applied to the total bs of the ship for
the like purpose? It is the deliverance from an immediate impending peril, by a common
sacrificei whL.h constitutes the essence of the claim. It is the safety of the property,,
and not the voyage yvhich constitutes the foundation of gelieral average.
A consultation by the captain with the officers of tlte vessel, before running her on shore,
with a view to her preservation, and that of, the passengers and cargo, may be highly
proper, in cases which admit of delay and deliberation, to prevent the imputation of'
rashness and unnecessary stranding by the master. But if the propriety and necessity
of the act, are otherwise sufficiently made out, no objection can be made to it.
The freight of a vessel, totally lost by being run on shore for her preservation and that ofthe crew and cargo, ought to be allowed to the owner of the vessel as the subject of'
general average, the cargo of the. vessel having been saved by the stranding..

IN error to the Circut- Court of the United Sttes, for the county
of 'Alexandria, in the District of Columbia.
This was an action instituted in the Circuit Court of the United
States, against the Columbian Insurance Company, for the purpose
of ascertaining whether the plaintiffs, Ashby and Stribling, and
Peter Hewit, were entitled to recover against the cargo of the bri"
Hope,.for a contribution for an average loss. The Columbian Insurance Company were the underwriters on the cargo; and an
agreement was made- between the parties to the cause, before the
trial, that "without regard to form, the real question between them
,should be contestel." Under this. agreement the cause was tricd,,
and the jury found the following special verdict.
"We, of the jury find, that on the 27th day of May, 1825, the

brig.Hope sailed from Alexandria on a vavage ,t6 Barbadoes, that

332

SUPREME COURT.

[Columbian Insurance Company vs.'Ashby and Stribling at al.]
on the said vessel standing down the Chesapeake bay, the weather
became thick and foggy, and that it appearing in the then state of
the weather imprudent to proceed to sea, the captain kept away for
Sewall's Point, for the purpose of making a harbour, wherg he anchored, with the best bower anchor in three fathoms water; that all
sails were furled, and a good scope of cable paid out, the wind
then blowing very fresh from the north-east; that at ten o'clock, P.
M., on the 3d day of June, he let the small bower anchor under
foot, and payed oat the best bower anchor until both cables bore a
strain; that the gale still increasing, the kedge anchor was let go;
that about midnight, the vessel struck adrift; that then the whole
scope of the cables were paid out till they all bore a strain, when
she fetched up; that the gale continued on the following day to increase, and the sea being very heavy, at, one o'clock she struck
adritt again and dragged three miles, when she brought up; that
the gale then increased to almost a hurricane, she ripped up the
windlass, parted the chain cable, and commenced drifting again, the
whole scope of both cables being paid out. That she then between
eleven and twelve o'clock brought up about three quarters of a
inile below Crancy Island in two and a half fathoms water, amongst
and in sight of a number of other vessels, that'she then thumped
or struck on the shoals on a bank, and her head swinging around to
the westward, brought her broadside to the wind and heavy sea;
that the captain, in this situation, finding no possible means of saving the vessel or cargo, and preserving the, crew, !slipped his cables,
and ran her on shore 'for the safety of the crew and preservation of
the vessel and cargo, that the vessel run far upon the bank, where,
after the storm) she was left high and dry, and it was found impracticable to get her off.
.' We find that the plaintiffs in this action were the owners of the
said brig; the value of the said brig was $3000; that one-third part
of the brig had been insured by the said Columbian Insurance Company; that no insurance had been effected for the remaining twothirds. We further find, that the' whole of the cargo on board said
brig was of the value of $5335, of which, the said Columbian Insurance Company insured $4920. We further find, that the cargo
was afterwards taken out safely, and that the vessel, her tackle, &c.,
were sold for the sum of $256 40. If, on the matter aforesaid, the
law be for the plaintiffs, then we find for the plaintiffs, and assess
their damages to the sum of fifteen hundred dollars; and if' the law
be for the defendants, then we find for the defendants."
In August, 1825, the Circuit 'Court gave judgment in favoni of
the plaintiffs, for $1249, and the defendants prosecuted this writ of
error..
The cause was argued by Mr. E. J. Lee, and Mr. Jones, for the
plaintiffs in error; and by Mr. Semmes, and Coxe for the defendants.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error contended,

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

333

(Columbian Insurance Company vs. Ashby and Sttibling et al.]

1st. That the plaintiffs in the Circuit Court, have not shown such
a case as authorized any verdict against them.
2d. That the special .verdict does not find such facts as authorize
the judgment of the Circuit Court.
3d. If the defendants are liable at all for an average loss, the
plaintiffs have already, in their action on the policy upon the vessel,
obtained judgment for $2000; which including the amount of the
sales of the vessel makes $2256 40, being more than the amount
insured on the vessel, and the average loss, as. reported by the auditor.
4th. That the facts which were proved by the survey and depositions in the suit .on the policy. on the vessel, form a. part of the
special verdict in this case. If they do, then the judgment of the
Circuit Court ought to have been for the plaintiffs in error; of if the
evidence in the record of this case is uncertain, then, for this reason,
the verdict ought to be set aside.
The Court having considered the agreement made before the trial,
as excluding all the points presented on the part of the plaintiffs in
error from examination, except the question of the liability of the
plaintiffs in error as the insurers on the, cargo of the brig Hope, for
an average contribution for the loss of the vessel, the arguments on
that -question are alone given.
Mr. Lee and Mr. Jones contended, that the maritime -law imposed on the owners of the cargo no obligation to contribute, unless
the vessel was saved. The total loss of the vessel exempted the cargo
from 6o tribution. Cited 9 John3. Rep. 9. Phill. on Insurance, 339.
It is admitted that whatever the master of a vessel, in distress,
does for the general benefit of the whole, is binding on all interested, and all are responsible for his acts. Cited Lex Mercatoria.
Stevens on Insurance. 2 Wash. C. C. R. 299. 2 Serg. and Rawle,
331. But in this case, the acts of the master were not of this character; and a very important part of the duty imposed upon him by
the perils to which he was exposed, was omitted. He did not consult the officers of the vessel, befote the vessel was run on sho6re.
There must be shown an inevitable necessity, for the stranding of
the vessel; and that the same was the sole cause of the saving of
the vessel and cargo; to create an obligation by the cargo to contribute; and the special verdict should have found all the facts. The
facts are not found, but the evidence of the facts. The verdict only
says, that the captain finding the existence of the necessity ran the
vessel on shore. It is denied that the cases cited by the counsel for
the defendants in error are authority in this Court. The principle of
the maritime law is, that the running the vessel on shore must be
for the common benefit of all the property, both the vessel and the
cargo; and this cannot be done by the al olute loss of the vessel.
The captain had no authority to do an act of this kind. The sacrifice cannot be made for the benefit of what is absolutely and totally
destroyed by it. The sacrifice must not be for the vessel, the cargo

834

SUPREME COURT.
[Columbian Insurance Company is. Ashby and Stribling et al.]

or the passengers, but for all; and it must be so far successful as that
part shall be saved by it.
We must look to the Roman Code for the principles which are to
decide. this question. It must be decided by principles of public
law. Cited, 9 Johns. Rep. 9, and the cases referred to. The authorities are clearly in favour of the case there decided; and a great
many of the authorities in the English writers concur on the question.
All the law upon this question is derived from the Rhodian law;
and by that law the salva navi is indispensable to create the liability
for the contribution by the cargo for the injury done to the vessel.
The saving of the vessel is essential. Cited, Holt on Shipping, ch. 7;
Consolato del Mare by Boucher; Molloy's Commercial Law.
It is all-important that the question presented by this case shall be
decided, and that the law of average shall be uniform in the United
States. Different rules should not prevail in the states of the United
States. A resort to the first principles of the maritime law, and
ascending to the fountains of the co-le, will alone enable the Court
to come to a decision which will have this influence and effect.
Mr. Semmes and Coxe for the defendants, contended, that the
.4pecial verdict in the case shows that the running the vessel ashore
was a voluntary stranding and loss of the brig for the preservation
of the vessel, crew and cargo; and that such stranding and loss of
the brig, the cargo being saved, entitles the defendants in error to recover of the owners of the cargo (or of the underwriters, their substitutes) contribution as for a general average.
Mr. Semmes for the defendants in error.
This is the case of a special verdict, finding all the facts in evidence
which are material to the question bef6re this Court. The facts
found are briefly these: That the brig Hope, on a voyage from
Alexafidria to Barbadoes, was assailed by a violent storm while
proceeding down Chesapeake bay in-order to get out to sea; that
she was for several days pressed, by the fury of the winds and waves,
and to prevent drifting on a lee shore, all her anchors were, at different times, let go and the cables paid out until they all bore a strain.
That while in this situation the violence of the storm increased until
the destruction of the vessel, crew., and cargo seemed inevitable.
Finding-there was no hope if he remained at anchor, certainly none
if he' attempted to breast the fury of the storm, and that nothing
remained for him but the last resort of running the vessel on
shore in order to save all or something, the captain resolved on this
desperate step. According]y, the vessel, then riding at anchor, the
captain slipped his cables and ran he-rashore, in the words of the
special verdict, "for the safety of the crew and the preservation of
the vessel and cargo."
The vessel ran high and dry, and it was
found impracticable to get her off. She proved a total loss; and the
crew and cargo were saved. The cargo was reshipped in another

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

S95

[Co lumbian Insurance Company w. Ashby and Stribling at al.]
vessel; and the owners of the vessel now are suing the underwriters
on the cargo for contribution to an average loss of the Vessel. and
freight, because of a voluntary sacrifice of that vessel and freight
for the benefit of all; the result'being the preservation of the cargo.
The act was done calmly -and voluntarily for the common safety.
The question now to be determined is, whether the part saved (the
cargo) shall contribute to the parts lost, (the vessel and freight,) in
general average.
The question presented to this Court is one of great importance
to the commerdal world. It has never been settled by the tribunal
of highest resort in any country,'and now, for the first time, comes up
for final adjudicatiQn. The maritime writers'of Europe have held
opposite and confliting opinions. Bynkershoek, Jacobsen, Valin,
Voet, and Browne, have maintained the doctrine for which the-defendants in error are now contending. Emerigon, Stevens, and Huberus stand nearly alone on the opposite side. The marine.ordinances
of the European states have been uniform in their provisions: those
of Antw6rp, Konigsberg, and Friezeland, have been for the doctrine
we support. The Ordonanza de Bilboa has embodied the same just
and enlightened view, taken by Bynkershoek and the other writers
and ordinances named;, while to the, Rhodian law, as handed down
to us-by the civilians, though containing n6 -express provision for the
case, we look for the foundation and .the reason of 'our rule. The
Courts have been, in conflict likewise. The marine judges of Amsterdam decided against the contribution, in such a case; but the fallacy of their judgment has been ably exposed by Bynkershoek. The
question has never come directly before any Court, under the jurisdiction of , Teat Britain. In this country the Supreme Court of
New York have decided against the contribution. , The Circuit
Court of the United States for the third circuit; and the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania have determined in favour of it. The Cburt
below awarded a judgment of contribution on this special verdict;
the present writ of error -has been prosecuted, and this Court are
now to pronounce and say, which is the better and the juster rule.
. The law of Rhodes,"De jactu," established theprinciple of average,
in cases of jettison of part of the cargo for the safety of' all, The
provision is express in xespect to jettison, but no other case is named.
The expression of one case will not, however, exclude others from
coming within its reason. The case put in the Rhodian law is by
way of example or illustration, aiid not as implying that average is
exclusively confined to cases of jettison. 'To show this clearly, we
need only resort to the authority of, Emerigon and his followers.
With ILsolitary and almost ludicrous exception they admit that if a
ship be voluntarily stranded, when in peril at sea, when chased by
an enemy or by pirates, for the common safety, and be subsequently
gotten off and proceed on her voyage, then, that the cost of 'repairs
shall affordl a claim to the ship owners for a general average.' If the
ship be partially destroyed there 'shall be an average; if the loss be

336

SUPREME COURT.
[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Ashby and Stribling et al.]

total, there shall be none. Such is the doctrine of Emerigon, and of
the Supreme Court of New York.
Stevens in his work on Average, p. 36, has gone further, and denies the average in cases of partial damage to the ship, as well as of
total loss. He admits the law to be against him ; he admits the
uniform practice at Lloyds to be against him, as well as the opinion
of eminent members of the'English bar. We may pass him by, and
content ourselves with those who admit the 'contribution in cases of
partial loss. Now, it is from the Rhodian law that the' advocates of
this latter doctrine draw their authority. Let us go back to the great
and fundamental principle of average established by that law, and
see if it does not support a broader and more equitable construction.
To afford a case for applying the doctrine of average, the loss sustained must be a voluntary loss.for the common safety, when all are
in imminent peril; and there must be a saving of some part thereby.
The part saved shall contribute to the part lost. If goods are'thrown
overboard in a storm for the purpose of lightening the vessel, and
she and the remaining goods are saved, all shall come into contribution for the part lost; nemo debet locupletari aliena jactura. If
damage be done voluntary to a ship to effect a jettison, as by cutting
her sides, or, the masts or rigging are cut away in a storm to lighten
the ship, these losses are subjects of a general -average contribution.
So, the doctrine of our oppoients in cases of a voluntary stranding,
where the ship is got off, with partial damage.' But if the ship is
totally lost, they say there shall be no contribution. Do not the
reason and the equity of the rule as to average, apply as clearly and
forcibly to cases of a total loss as to cases of a partial loss? Where
is the ground for drawing a distinction?, If a distinction be drawn
as contended for, it involves its advocates in this glaring inconsistency and injustice; that where a party has suffered a voluntary
minor evil for the benefit of another, that other shall contribute to
his loss out of the benefit resulting; but if, perchance, the voluntary
suffering encountered should reach beyond a certain limit, and the
sufferer should lose every thing, he risked, then he is unworthy of
any compensation. Where there is a small equity, there shall be
relief; where the equity is increased tenfold, there shall be none.
S'uch is the doctrine of the plaintiffs in error. Itremains for those
who draw the distinction to show the necessity and the reason of it.
.itis contended that the captain should have consulted with his
6fficers and crew before stranding the vessel, aid that the special
verdict does not find this fact. It has long since been conclusively
settled that such previous consultation and deliberation are not necessary. Sims vs. Gurney and Smith, 4 Binney, 513.
It is likewise held on the other side, that even if there should be
contribution for the vessel in this case, there should be none for the
freight. There is no foundation for this objection. The freight follows the fate of the vessel; if the vessel be lost, the freight is also

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

637;,

[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Ashby and Stribling et al)-

lost. If there was any merit in the voluntary stranding of the vessel whereby she was lost, the same merit attaches in respect to
freight; for that was destroyed by the self same voluntary act.
Mr. Semmes referred to the following authorities :--2'Kent's Com.
191. Marsh. on Ins. 535 et seq. Da Costa vs. Newnham, 2 Term.
Rep. 407. The Copenhagen, 1 Rob. Adm. Rep. 494. Walden vs.
Leroy, 2 Caines, 263. Henshaw vs. Marine Ins. Co., 2.Caines 274.
Jacobson's Sea Laws, 346. 348. 350. 2 Bro. Civ. and Adm. Law, 199.
Bynk. Quast. Im. Priv. b. 4, ch. 24, tit. de jactu, 424. 2 Magelis,
200. Voet, Com. ad Pand. 690. Valin, 168. 1 Emerigon, 602.
612. 615. Sims vs. Gurney and Smith, 4 Binney, 513. Gray etal.
vs. Waln, 2 Serg. and Rawle, 229. Gaze et al. vs. Reilly, 3 Wash.
C. C. Rep. 298, Story's Abbott, 342. 349, note. Bradhurst vs.,'Col.
Ins. Co.,9 Johns. Rep. 9. 3 Kent's Com. 233. Stevens on Average,
36. Eppes vs. Tucker,.4 Call. 346. 4 Peters, 139. 11 Serg. and
Rawle, 69.
Mr. Justice SToNY delivered the opinion of the Court.This is the case of a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, for the county of Alexandria. There are many
irregularities in the proceedings on the record; but as, in our judgment, they are all waived or cured by the agreement of the counsel
spread upon the record, which is, as to the matters in controversy
in the suit, conclusive upon the parties, and constituted the basis of
the proceedings at the trial and of the special verdict -on which the
judgment was given for the original plaintiffs in the Court below, it
is unnecessary to discuss their intrinsic force or validity. The main
question in the case is, whether the voluntary stranding of a ship in
a case of imminent peril, for the preservation of, the crew, the ship,
and cargo, followed by "a'total loss of the ship, constitutes 4 general
average, for which the property saved is bound to contribution.
We say that this is the main question, because the special verdict
finds that there was' a voluntary running on shore of the brig Hope;
that there was no other possible means of preserving the crew, the
ship, and the cargo; that the running ashore was for this express
olject; and that; after the storm was, over, the brig was left high
and dry, and it- was found impracticable to get her off: so that the
facts are sufficiently precise and full to present the question of
general average in its most simple and comprehensive form. Accordingly our attention will, in the first instance, be addressed to the
consideration of it.
Upon this question the maritime jurists of continental Europe are
not entirely agreed in opinion; and our own jurisprudenbe presents
conflicting adjudications. It .becomes,-the duty of this Court, therefore, to examine and weigh these opposing opinions, and to ascertain, as far as it may, the true principle which ought to govern us
on the present occasion.
It' is admitted oft all sides, that the rule as to general average is
derived to us from the Rhodian la*, at promulgated and adopted in
VOL. XIII.-2 F
$

338

SUPREME COURT.
[Columbian Insurance Companywv8. Ashby and Stribing et al.]

the Roman jur.3prudence. The Digest states it thus. If goods are
thrown overboard in order to lighten a ship, the loss incurred for the
,sake of all shall be made good by the contribution of all. Lege
Rhodia cavetur, ut si levandc

navis. gratia jactus mercium factus

est, omnium contributione sarciatur, quod pro omnibus datum est.
Dig. lib. 14, tit. 2, c. 1. That the case of jettison was here understood to be put as a. mere illustration of a more-general principle, is
abundantly clear from the context of the Roman law, where a ransom paid to pirates to redeem the ship is declared to be governed by
the same rule. Si navis a piratis redempta sit-omnes conferre debere. Dig. lib. '14, tit. 2, c. 2, s. 3. The same rule was applied to
the case of cutting away or throwing overboard of the masts or
other tackle of the ship to avert the impending calamity; Dig. lib.
14, tit: 2, c. 3, c. 5, s.2; and the incidental damage occasioned
thereby to other things. Without citing the various passages from
the Digest which authorize this statement, it may be remarked that
the R6man law fully recognised and enforced the leading limitations
and conditions to justify a general contribution, which have been
ever since steadily adhered to by all maritime nations. First, that
the ship and cargo should be placed in a common imminent peril;
secondly, that there should be a voluntary sacrifice of property to
avert that peril; and, thirdly, that by that sacrifice the safety of the
other property should be presently and succ6ssfully attained. Hence,
if there was no imminent danger or necessity for the 'sacrifice, as if
the jettison was merely to lighten a ship too heavily laden by the
faijlt of the master in a tranquil sea, no contribution was due. See
Abbott on Ship . p. 3, ch. 8, s. 2, 1 Emerig. Assur. ch. 12, s. 39,
art. 7. p. 6104. lb.,s. 40, p. 60i5. So, if the ship was injured or disabled in a storm, withbut any voluntary sacrifice; or if she foundered or was shipwrecked without design, the goods saved were not
bound to contribution. Dig. lib. 14, tit. 2, c. 2,'s. 1. 1b. c.7. 1
Emerig. on Assur. ch. 12, s. 39, p. 601-603. On the other hand, if
the object of the sacrifice, was not attained; as if there was a jettisQn to prevent shipwreck, or to get the ship off the strand, and in
either case it was not attained, as there was no deliverance from the
tbmmon peril, no contribution was due. Dig. lib. 14, tit. 2, c. 5, c. 7.
1 Emerig. ofi Assur. ch. 12, s. 41, p. 612, p. 616. The language of
beDigest upon this last point is very expressive. Amissm navis
damnum collationis consortio non sarcitur'per eos, qui merces suas
naufragio liberarunt-nam hujus .cquitatem tunc admitti placuit,
cum, jactus remedio ceeteris in communi periculo, salvA, nave, consultum est. It is this language, which seems in a great measure to
have created the only doubt among the commentators as to the
extent 'and operation of the rule; some of them having supposed
that the' safety of the ship (salva nave) for the voyage, was in all
cases indispensable to fodnd a claim to contribution; whereas others,
with far more accuracy and justness of interpretation, have held it
to apply as a mere illustration of the general doctrine, to a jettison,
made in the particular case, for the very purpose of saving the ship

.JANUARY TERM, 1839.

330

[Columbian, Insurance Company vs.Ashby and Stribling et al]

and the residue of the cargo . In truth, the Roman law does not
proceed upon any distinction as to the property sacrificed, whether
it be ship or cargo, a part or the whole; but solely upon the ground
that the sacrifice is voluntary, to avert an imminent peril; and that
it is in the event successful by accomplishing that purpose. And,
.therefore, Bynkershoek has not hesitated to declare the general
principle to be, that whatever damage is done for the common bener
fit of all is to be contributed for by all; and that as this obtains in a
'variety of cases, so especially by the Rhodian law it obtain's in
cases of jettison. Generaliter placere potest, damnum pro utithate
communi factum, commune esse, utque in varns specie!us id obtinere aliunde constat, sic ex lege Rhodia, cum maxime obtinet in
jactu. Bynker. Quest. Priv. Juri. lib. 4, ch. 24, introd.
These remarks seem proper to.be made in order to meet-the suggestions thrown out at the argument, with reference to the actual
bearings of the Roman law on the question before the Court; and
they may also serve in some measure to explain the true principles
by which the question ought to be decided.
In examining the foreign jurists, it will be found that there is far
less disagreement among them than has been generally supposed.
All of them that have come within our own researches, or those of
counsel, admit that a voluntary stranding 6fthe ship constitutes a case
of general average, if there is not a total loss of-the ship. Emerigon
in one passage lays down the doctrine in the following broad language. "It sometimes happens that, to escape from an enemy or,
to avoid an absolute shipwreck, the ship is run on shore in a place
which appears the least dangerous. The .damage suffered on this
account is a general average, because it has been done for the common safety."
I Emerigon Assur. ch. 12, s. 13, p. 408. And for
this he relies upon the Consolato del Mare, upon Roccus, Targa,
Caseregis, and'Valin. It is true that in another place he says,
"The damages which happen by stranding are a simple average for
the account of the proprietors ;" citing the French ordinance: and
then adds, "But it will be. a general average if the stranding has
been voluntarily made for the common safety, provided always that
the ship be again set afloat; for if the stranding be followed by
shipwreck, then it is, save who can."
1 Emerigon Assur. ch. 12,
s.'13', p. 614. And he then refers to the case of jettison, where the
ship is not saved thereby, in which case there is no contribution.
Emerigon Assur. ch. 12, s. 13, p. 616. Now the analogy between
the two cases is far from being so clear or so close as Emerigon has
supposed. In the case of 'he jettison to avoid foundering or shipwreck,-if the calamity occurs, the object is not attained. But in the
case of the stranding, whatever is saved, is saved, by the common
sacrifice of the ship; although the damage to her may have been
greater than was expected. Surely the question of contribution
cannot depend upon the amount of the damage sustained by the
sacrifice ; for that would be to say, that if- a man 1st all his property for the common benefit, he should ieceive nothing; but if he

340

SUPREME COURT.
[Columbian Insurance Company v8. Ashby and Stribling et al.]

lost a part only he should receive full compensation. No such principle is applied to the total loss of goods sacrificed for the common
safety : why then should it be applied to the total loss of the ship

for tie like ' purpose? It may be said-that unl6ss the ship is got' offthe voyage cannot be performed forthe'cargo ; -and the. safety and
ptosecution of the voyage are essential to entitle the owner to aecontribution. But this principle is nowhere laid down in the foreign
authorities; and certainly it has no foundation in the Roman law.
It is the deliverance from an immediate impending peril, by a common sacrifice, which constitutes the essence of the, claim. The
Roman law clearly shows this; for by that law it was expressly
declared, that if by.a jettison in a tempest, the ship was saved from
the impending peril, and afterwards was submerged in another
place, still contribution was due frem- all the property which might
be fished up, and saved from the calamity. Sed si navis, que jntempestate jactio mercium unius mercatoris, levata est, in alio loco
submersa est, et aliquorum merces per urinatores extract.T sunt,
,data mercede, rationem haberi debere ejus, cujus merces in naviga,
tione levandw navis causa jactoo sunt ab his, qui postea suae per urinatores servaverunt. Digest, lib. 14, tit. 2, 1. 4, s. 1. Boucher Instit. an Droit Maritime, (1S05,) p. 449. Abbott on Shipp. part 3,
ch. 8, s. 13. And, besides, in a case like that now before us, the
cargo might be transshipped in another vessel, and the voyage be
successfully performed. But, in truth, it is the safety of the property, and, not of the voyage,_ which constitutes the true foundation
of general average. If the whole cargo were thrown overboard to
insure the 9afety of the ship, the voyage might be lost ;,but nevertheless the ship must contribute to the jettis6n. Why, then, if the
ship is totally sacrificed for the -safety of the cargo, should not the
same rule apply? Suppose a ship, with a cargo of cotton on board,
is struck by lightning and set on fire, and it becomes indispensable
for the salvation of the cargo to sink the ship on a rocky bottom,
and she is thereby totally lost-would not this constitute a case of
contribution? Suppose a cargo of lime were accidentally to take
fire in port, and it became necessary, in order to save the ship, that
she should be submerged,"and the cargo was thereby totally lost,
'but the ship was saved With but a trifling injury; would it not be a
case of contribution ?
As far as we know, Emerigon stands alone among the foreign.
jurists, in maintaining the qualification that it is necessary to a general
average that the ship should be got afloat again after a voluntary
stranding. Valin certainly does not support it; for he only states,
that if to avoid a total loss by shipwreck or capture, the master runs
his vessel ashore, the damage which he shall suffer on that account,
and the expenses and the charge of putting her afloat again, are general average; and he gives th6 reason, because all has been done for
the .common safety. 2 Valin, Com. 168. Ib. 205, 207, 209. See,
also, 2 Bell. Con p. 589, 3 edit. 1826. Beyond all doubt, Valin is
correct in this statemnt; but then he was merely discussing the

JANUARY TERM,. 1839.

841

[Columbian nsurance Company w. Ashby and Striblink et al3

pbint, whether the expenses of getting the ship afloat was, when
she was got off, a subject of general average; and not the point;
whether, if the ship was totally lost, the whole lbss was not a general average. His reasoning was diverse intuitu.
On the-other hand, the Consolato del Mare, one of the earliest
and most venerable collections of maritime law, lays down the general rule, without any such qualification. Consolato del Mare, ch.
192, 193; Boucher, Consult de Ia Mer, 'ch. 195, 196, s. 487-494;
as also does Roccus, in his Treatise de NVibus et Naut. Roccus
de Nay. et Naut. n. 60. Indeed, it may be found stated in the same
general form in the Roman law, where it is said, without referring
to the manner and extent of the damage, that the whole damage
voluntarily done to the ship for the common good, must be borne
by a common contribution. Sed si voluntate vectorum, vel propter
aliquem metum id detrimentum factum sit, hoc ipsum sarciri oportet.
Dig. Lib. 14. tit. 2, c. 2, s. 1, c. 3, 1. 5, s. 1. And Vinnius in his commentary, after speaking of an involuntary shipwreck, in which case
there shall be no contribution, adds; that the damage suffered by a
sacrifice made for the good of all, to avoid a common danger, is tW
be made good by the contribution- of all. Vinnius Packiamu id
Legem Rhodiam, c. 5. Voet, in his commentary on the Digest, is far
more explicit, and -asserts, that if the ship is voluntarily run on
shore for the common safety, and thus has perished, the goods being
saved, contribution is due. Voet ad Pand. lib. 14, tit. 2, s. 5. Bynkershoek has treated the, very question in his usual clear and luminous manner. After citing a decision of-ccrtain maritime judges of
Amsterdam, who held that if a cable of the ship was voluntarily cut
to avert a peril, and thereby the anchor as well as the cable was
lost, contribution should not be made for the anchor, becausd there
could not be said to be a voluntary jettison-; and who, also, for the
like reason, held, that if the ship was, run on shore and lost, the
goods should not contribute, because there could be no contribution
unless the ship was saved, (quia nihil contribuitur, nisi salvr nave-)
he expressed his pointed disapprobation of the decision, saying, that
it exhibited very little acuteness, for in all such cases the goods cannot otherwise be saved, and the peril compels us to the act; and
the safety of the ship, in case of a jettison, is not otherwise sought
than, the ship being saved, the goods may thereby be saved: and,
therefore, the goods saved, and the damage occadioned thereby,
ought to be subject to contribution. And he accordingly holds, that the
loss of the ship, like the loss of her tackle, is to be deemed a general average, wherever she is sacrificed by a voluntary stranding for
the general safety; insisting that this doctrine is fully supported by
other authorities cited by him. The doctrine of the Amsterdam
judges upon the principal point before them, has been utterly repudiated by all maritime nations in later times, as it seems to have had
no foundation in any antecedent adjudications. See Cleirac Us et
Coutumes de Ia Mer, art. 21-23. Indeed, there are early positive
ordinances of some of the maritime states, which positively provide
2 F2

•342

SUPREM,

COURT.

[Columbian Insmrance Company v8. Ashby and 1tribling etal.]

for the very case of a total los of the ship by a voluntary stranding
as a general average; (as, for example, the ordinance of Konigsburg,) and others in which it'is riot usually, if not necessarily, implied. See 2 Magens, 200, &c. It deserves consideration, also, that
the modern maritime writers, Jacobsen, Benecke, and Stevens, all
admit this is to be the result of the foreign jurisprudence and ordinances. Jacobsen Sea Laws, by Frick, b. 4, ch. 2, p. 358. Benecke
on Insur. 219-221. Stevens on Average, 33, 34, edit. 1824. See
2 Bell's Com. p.589, 5th edit. 1826. Stevens, also,,notwithstanding
his own opplosition to th?. rule, admits that it appears to have been
the practice at. Lloyd's, as far back as the time of Mr. Weskett;
and that recent opinions of eminent counsel in England, taken qn
the very point, fully admit- and confirm it. Stevens on Average,
33-35, edit. 1824. Dr. Browne, in his Treatise on the Civil and
Admiralty Law, adopts the same opinion, saying, "It has been disp ted whether, when a ship was voluntarily
run ashore and lost,
but the cargo saved, it should contribute, because the rule was that
no contribution took place when the ship was lost. But it was
truly held that thM rule would be absurdly applied to a case where
the ship was grounded purposely to save the merchandise, and that
with success."
2 Browne's Civil and Adm. Laws, 199
From this review of some of the leading opinions in foreign jurisprudence, brief and impdrfcct as it is, it seems to us that the
weight of authority is decidedly in favour of the present claim for
general. average.
In respect to domestic authorities, we have already had occasion
to intimate that there are conflicting adjudications. In Bradhurst vs. The Columbian Insurance Company 9 Johns. Rep. 9,the
Supreme Court of New York held that where, a ship is voluntarily
run ashore for the common good, and she is afterwards recovered,
and performs the voyage, the damages resulting from this sacrifice,
are to be borne as a general average. But that where the ship is
totally' lost, it is not a general average. The ground of this opinion, as pronounced by Mr. Chief Justice Kent, seems mainly to have
been, that this was the just exposition of the Rhodiani and' Roman
law, and that the weight of authority among foreign jurists clearly
supported it. With great respect for the learned Court, we have
felt ourselves compelled to come to an opposite conclusion as to the
truc interpretation of the Roman text, andof the continental jurists.
We agree with the learned Court, that when a ship is voluntarily
run ashore, it does not, of course, follow that she is to be lost. The
intention is.not to destroy the Ahip, but to place her in less peril, if
practicable, as well as the cargo. The act is hazardous to the ship
ad cargo, but it is done to escape from a more pressing danger;
such as a storm, or 'the pursuit of an enemy, or pirate. But, then,
the act is done for the, common safety; and if the, salvation of the
cargo is accomplished therehy, it is dijicult to perceive why, because
from inevitable calamity -the damage, has exceeded" the intention or
e*pectation of the parties, the whole sacrifice should be borne by

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

343

[Columbian Insnranoe Company wi.
Ashby and Stribling et al.]

the ship owner, when it has thereby accomplished the safety of the
cargo. If one mast is cut away, and thereby another mast is unexpectedly and unintentionally also carried away by the falling of
the former, it has never been suppoed .that both did not come into
the common contribution. If, in the opening of the hatches, and the
jettison of some go6ds to lighten the ship, other goods are unexpectedly and unintentionally, but accidentally, injured or destroyed,
it has never been doubted that the latter were to be brought into
contribution, to the extent of the loss or damage done to them. It
is not like the case of saving from a fire, tamquam ex incendio
save who can. But it is'like the saving of the cargo from destruction by fire, by the scutling and submersion of the ship.. Upon
principle, therefore, we cannot say that we are satisfied that' the
doctrine of the Supreme Court of New York can be maintained;
for the general principle certainly is, 'that whatever is sacrificed
voluntarily for the. common good, is to be recompensed by the commQn contribution of the property benefited thereby.
But the same question has coine" before other American Courts;
and has there, with the full authority ofthe New York decision before
them, received a directly opposite adjudication. Our late brother
Mr. Justice Washington, than whom few judges had a clearer
judgment, or more patient spirit of inquiry, had the very point before him in Caze vs. ReiUy, 3 Wash. 'Cir. C. Rep. 298; and after
the fullest argument,, and the most 'extensive research into foreign
jurisprudence, he, pronounced an opinion that there was no difference between the case of a partial and that of a total loss of
the ship, by a voluntary stranding, and that both constituted equally
a case of general average. The Supreme .Court of Pennsylvania
had a shopt time before, in Sims vs. Gumey, 4 Bin. Rep. 513;
adopted the same doctrine; and again in Gray vs. Waln; 2 Serg.
and Rawle, 229; upon a re-argument of the whole matter, with all the
subsequent lights which could be brought 'before it, adhered to that
opinion: and this has ever since been the 'established law of that,
Cotirt. We have. examined the reasoning in these opinions, and
are bound to say that ithas our unqualified assent: and we follow
without hesitation the doctrine, as well founded in authority and
supported by principle, that a voluntary stranding of the ship, followed by a total loss of' the ship, but with a saving of the cargo,
constitute when designed for the common safety a clear ease of
general average.
Having disposed-of the main question, it now remains to say a
few words as to somie minor points suggested at the argument.
In
the first place, as to the objection, that here the stranding, does not
appe-, to nave been made after a consultation with the officers and
crew, and with their advice. There is no weight in this objection.
A- consultation with the officers may be highly proper in cases
which admit of delay and deliberation, to repel the imputation of
rashness and unnecessary stranding by the master. But if the propriety dnd necessity of the act are otherwise sufficiently made out,

344

SUPREME COURT.
[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Ashby and Stribling et al.)

there is an end of the substance of the objection. Indeed, in many
-if not most of the acts done on these melancholy occasions, there is
little time for deliberation or consultation. What is to be done must
often, in order to be successful, be done promptly and instantly by
the master, upon his own judgment and responsibility. * The peril
usually calls for action and skill, and intrepid personal decision,
without discouraging others by timid doubts or hesitating movements. The very point was decided in Sims vs. Gurney, 4 Bin.
Rep. 513, upon ground entirely- satisfactory. And it has been well
remarked by more than one maritime jurist, that too scrupulous an
adherence to forms on such occasions, has justly a tendency to excite suspicions of fraud. Targa has stated, that in all hii experience
of sixty years, he never knew of but five cases of regular jettisons,
all of which were .suspected of fraud, because the forms had. been
too well observed. Abbott on Shipp. pt. 3, ch. 8, sec. 3. 1 Emerig.
Assur.
12, sec. 40, p. 605.
. The ch.
only other remaining
point is, whether freight ought to have
been brought into the account, either as a part of the loss, or of the
contributory value. The Auditor's -Report which was adopted by
the 'Court, allowed the freight as a part of the loss, and also of the
contributory value. It is perfectly clear that if a part of the loss,
the freight ought also to contribute. And it seems to us, that as by
the loss of the ship, the freight was totally lost for the voyage, it
was properly included in the loss, and as a-sacrifice by the ship
owner fpr the common benefit. The goods, if reshipped in another
vessel must be presumed to be so for a new and correspondent
freight to be borne by the ship owner or the shipper, according as
the one or the other should Peek te perform the entire voyage for
his own benefit. The ship owner could only earn the original
freight by a transshipment; and if he abandoned that intent, the
shipper must enter into a new contract and enterprise with others.
InIthe case of Caze vs. Reilly, -3 Wash. C. C. Rep. 298, although
the obljection as to freight was saved, it was abandoned at the argument. In the case of Gray vs. Waln, 2 Serg. and Rawle, 229,
the freight lost was expressly allowed in the general average. No
other objections have been taken to the Auditor's Report, or his adjustment thereof; and therefore upon the other particulars of that
adjustment we give no opinion.
Upon the whole our opinion is that the jiidgment of the Circuit
Court ought to be affirmed, -with costs.
This cause camejon to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Ciicuit Court-of the United States, for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration wheiof, it-is ordered and adjudged
by this Court, thatthe judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the kme is hereby, affirmed with costs and damages
at the rate of six per centum per annum-

