JANUARtY TERM, 1839.

BARRINGTON ANTHONY, MARSHAL OF THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, vs. CRus BUTLER, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

A mortgage wasexecuted by D. G. as the agent of the Union Steam Milt Company, conveying to the mortgagee certain lands in Rhode Island, with a wpollen mill and other
buildings, with the machinery in the mill. D. G. was, and had been the general agent
of the company, and as such, had ,made all purchases and sales for the company, and the
mortgage was executed by him, with the consent and authority of the personswho at
the time of its execution were members of the company. The machinery, and other
movables, had been taken in execution by the marshal of Rhode Island, under ar'execution issued on a judgment obtained after the mortgage against the company. The
Court held, that although. the mortgage was not valid as the deed of the corporation, it
Vras sufficient to convey a title to the mortgagee in the machinery; and that he could
maintain an action of replevin for them against the marshal.
The mortgage was recorded by the town clerk of the place, where the property was, he,
being the proper officer to record such instruments, under the statute of Rhode Island.
He kept two books, in one of which he recorded mortgages, which included real estate; hnd in the other, mortgages upon -ersonal property only. The mortgage in this
case, was first recorded in the book kept for recording mortgages on real estate. And he
gave a certificate, "lodged in the town clerk's office to record, November 20, 1837, at 5
P. M., and recorded same day, in the record of mortgages in East Greenwich, book
No. 4," &c. The Court held that this certificate was properly received in evidence, in
the Circuit Court.
It is a well settled rule, though a Very technical one, that one partner cannot bind his capartners by deed. And it is equally well settled that one partner may 'ldspose of the
personal property of the firm. One partner may bind his copartner by deed, if he is
present, and assent to it. The seal of one partner, with the assent of the copartner,
will bind the firm.
Where a statute requires that mortgages, on personal property shall be recorded in a book
to be specially kept for the purpose, and says nothing as to the book in which mortgages
on real and personal property shall be recorded, and in the conveyance the personal
and real property, is so blended as to be inseparable; to require a double record would
seem to be an unreasonable construction of the statute. The record of the mortgage in
the book kept for recording mortgages on real estate, is within a fair construction of the
Rhode Island statute.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States, for the district
of Rhode Island.
The-defendant in error, Cyrus Butler, in 1838, instituted an action
of replevin against Barrington Anthony, the marshal of the United
States, for the district of Rhode island, to recover from him certain
machinery, and articles used in the manufacture of goods, which
had been the property of the Union Stuam Mill Company, and
which were claimed by the plaintiff, under a mortgage alleged to
have been executed to him by the Union Steam Mill Company,ion
the 20th of November, 1837, to secure to him the payment of sixteen thousand four bundred- and fifty-nine dollars, loaned to the
company, Jy Cyrus Butler.
The defendant in -the Circuit Court, the marshal of the district of
Rhode Island, ordered the taking of the goods under an execution.
issued out of the Circuit Court of the United States for that district,
on a judgment against Daniel Greene, William P. Salisbury, and
Rufus W. Dickinson; which execution had been so levied upow

424

SUPREME COURT.

[Afthony vs. Butler.)
the gpods as of aid Greene, Salisbury, and Dickinson, for the purpose
of satisfying tne debt and costs.
The cause was tried, before a jury, in November, 1838, and a
verdict, and judgment were rendered for the plaintiff. The defendant prosecuted this writ o error.
The matters, of law arising in the case were presented on a bill
of exceptions, taken by the counsel for the defendant on the trial.
The bill of exceptions stated' that the plaintiff in support of his
title to the articles named in the replevin, produced a certain deed
dated 20th November, 1837, executed by one Daniel Greene, as
agent for the Union Steam Mill Company, the said company being
a corporation, conveying the property of the company, the articles
reentioned in the replevin included, to the plaintiff on mortgage; and
proved the execution.of the deed, and produced the act of the legislature of Rhode Island, incorporating the company, and produced
the record of the corporate proceedings of the company, having
duly proved the paid proceedings. The execution, of the deed of
20th No -ember, 1837,,was in the following form. "Union Steam
Mill Company, Daniel Greene, [L. s.]" The plaintiff also produced
and read in evidence, a deed dated 18th May, 1837, from William
P. Salisbury to Daniel Greene, by which all the property of said
Salisbury, in the Union Steam Mill Company, was conveyed to'
Daniel Giaefie. The plaintiff also proved that Daniel Greene was,
and had been agent, from the time of the formation of the company;
and that t c deed to the plaintiff was executed by him, by, and with
the consent and authority of the company.
'The plaintiff insisted that the deed of Daniel Greene was the corporate deed of the Union Steam Mill Company, and .conveyed to
him the articles mentioned in the replevin; and he further insisted,
that if it was not their corporate deed, it was sufficient to convey a
valid title to the property to him, inasmuch as the said deed was
made and executed by, and with the consent of those, who at the
time werp members of the company; and that Daniel Greene, as the
general agent of the, company, was authorized to convey the articles
named in the plaintiff's writ.
The defendant objected to the deed as inoperative, the Union
Steam Mill Company having had no corporate existence atthe time it
was executed ;and the Court decided that the corporate existence was
pnot so proved as to allow the deed to be given in evidence, as the
deed of the corporation; but if inoperative, as the corporate deed, it
was sufficient and competent to. convey the articles in the replovin
to the plaintiff. To this opinioni the defendant, excepted.
The defendant also objected to the deed, as it did not appear to
have been recorded according to the la\v of Rhode Island regulating
the recording of mortgages on personal property, prior to the defendant's levy on the goods.
On the back of the deed was the endoxsement of the town clerk
of the place where the property was situated, stating that the deed
had been "lodged in the town clerk's office, to record, November

JANUARY TERM 1.839.

425

[Anthony vs. Butter.)
20, 1837, at 5 o'clock, P. M., and recorded same day in the r eord
of mortgages in East Greenwich, book No. 4,,pages 49 0 and 51."

The town clerk is the proper recording officer, by the laws of Rhode
Island
The defendant's counsel objected to fl sufficiency of the certificate as evidence that the deed was duly recorded, and produced
evidence that there was a book kept by the town clerk, in which
mortgages-, of personal property only, were recorded; and other
mortgages, which included real estate, were recorded in other books
kept in the office; and after recording the deed in the book of mortgages of'real estate on the 20th November, 1837, the -deed was
taken by him to the office of the town clerk, on the 14th November, 1838, and was recorded in the book kept for mortgages on personal property. The Court decided that the certificate was sufficient
evidence that the said deed was duly recorded. The defendant excepted.
The case was submitted to the-Court on printed arg- ments, by
Messrs. Pearce and Turner, and Mr. Atwell, for the plaintiff in error;
and by My. Ames, Mr. Tillinghast, and Mr. Green, for the defendant.
For the plaintiff in error it was argued.-The coumsel for the,
plaintiff in error say the deed in question is either the deed'of the.
party executing it, or it is no deed. Two of the necessary incidents
to a deed, says Lord Coke, (2 Thomas' Coke Lit. 272,) are a person
able to contract, and by a sufficient name. In the deed offered in
evidence by the defendant iii error, in the Circuit Court, the grantor
is a corporator, described as such, and using thie name and style of
the corporation.
Individuality is an attribute of corporations as well as of natural
persons. Dartmouth College vs. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 636. 1
Kyd on Corp. 15. 4 Serg. and Rawle, 356. The distinction between those bodies and natural persons, is distinctly marked. 1.
Corporations are limited in their powers by the terms of their creation. Beatey vs. The Lessee of Knowles, 4 Peters, 152. 2. By the
personal irresponsibility of their members. The United States
Bank vs. The Planter's Bank, 9 Wheat. 90-7. 2 Serg. and Rawle,
311. 9 Mass.,Rep. 355. 15 Mass. Rep. 505. 16 Mass. Rep. 9.
The interest of corporators in the capital stock of a corporation
is different from that of ordinary co-partners. Wood et. al. vs. Dummer et al. 3 Mass. Rep. 38.
The deed was made as the conveyance of the. corporation, and
was so received by the grantee. If there was no such corporation
in existence, the persons voting and acting as corporators had no.
legal powers, and there.was no one :competent to act as a grantor in
the deed.
The deed is made, and intended as made, not by persons acting
in their natural capacities, and as distinct individuals, under the ge2N2
54

426

SUPREME COURT.
[Aothony vs. Butler.]

neral laws of the land; but by persons acting under the artificial
characters of corporators, with the limited and restricted rights and
powers conferred upon them by their charter of incorporation. If
then the party by whom the deed is supposed, from its language
and evident intent, to have been made and executed, had no legal
existence-was not in, esse; by what rule of law is it that the
deed can be held to enure to the grantee as a deed of another
person, possessing a distinct individuality, and different legal attributes?
The maxim "quando quod ago, pon valet ut ago, valeat quantum
valere potest," under which Courts give to deeds a legal effect, different from the technical effect of the words of the instrument itself,
does not apply to this case ; because that rule is only applied to the
character of the estate intended to be granted, in order to effectuate
the intention of the parties, and not to-the character of the parties
themselves. 4 Cruise Dig. 298-303, and cases there ditd.
The deed cannot be the deed of the copartnership, and thus
enure to the benefit of the grantee; because it is under seal, and is
executed by one partner only in the name of the whole, and without
a special authority for the purpose under the seal of the corporation.
Harris vs. Jackson, 7 Term. Rep. 207. 4 Term Rep. 313. Their
subsequent assent to it was as corporators, and not as copartners.
At the trial, it did not appear that the deed had been recorded
prior to the levy on the property, according to the act of the general
assembly of Rhode Island, passed February 1, 1834.
This statute is remedial in its character, and was intended by the
legislature to remedy the mischief occasioned by the rule of law
as expounded by the Courts, that possession by the vendor of personal property, (if such possession was consistent with the deed,)
was not evidence of fraud. The construction of such a statute
should be liberal, to prevent the mischief; or, as said by Lord Coke, the
judges shall put such a consttuction on a statute as may redress the
mischief, guard against subtle inventions and evasions for the continuance of-the mischief, pro privato commodo, and give life and
strength to the remedy, pro bono publico, according to the true intent
and meaning of the law. Heyden's case, 3 Rep. 7. Pierce vs. Hoppin, 1 Strange, 253. The full result contemplated by this statute cannot be reached, without the record is made in the manner pointed
out in the acL. The manner of record is, therefore, an essential part
Qf,thelaw. See State Laws, 835.
The certificate of the town clerk was not in itself sufficient evidence
that the mortgage in question had been recorded, in conformity with
the provisions of law ; because the expression "book of mortgages,"
sed in said certificate, was ambiguous in its character, and might
refer to mortgages of real estate, as well as to personal property.
This ambiguity being explained by evidence, it isapparent that the
actual record was not made in conformity with the form prescribed
6y the statute, to wit, in a book to be kept by the town clerk, for
the especial purpose of reeordin& therein mortgages of personal

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

427

[Anthony vo. Butler.]

property. This form is imperative. 2 Inst. 388. 1 East, 64. 'It is
of the essence of the statute, -nd therefore imperative. 1 Burr.
447. And it is not directory only, for it makes void the mortgage,
when not recorded. Rex vs. Bunningham, 8 Barn. and Cres. 29.
Although it is the duty of the clerk to record the mortgage, yet
the party claiming under it is affected by the misfeasance or nonfeasance of that officer in the performance of his duty., Johnson vs.
Stagg, 2 Johns. R. 510. Beekman vs. Frost, 18 do. 544. Frost vs.
Beekma'n, same case, 1 Johns. C. R. 288. The New York statute is
in its terms like the Rhode Island statute. 18 Johns. R. 553.
The subsequent record of the mortgage in the proper book, under
date ot the 14th Nov. 1838, was made after the levy by the marshal, and was consequently' void as to that levy.
That record cannot relate back to the time when the deed was
lodged to be recorded, (Nov. 20, A. D. 1837,) for the statutes of
Rhode Island make a manifest distinction between mortgages of real
and personal property; making the first valid as to subsequent purchasers when recorded or lodged to be recorded, and the second valid
when recorded only. Laws of Rhode Island, 202 and 835. And
it is the further policy of the' state of Rhode Island, that no deed,
when once left to be recorded, shall be taken from the office of the
clerk until the same shall have been by him duly recorded. Laws
of R. L-878.
For the defendant in error, it was contended, by Messrs. Ames,
Tillinghast, and Green, that the deed of Daniel Greene, of 20th November, 1837, executed by Greene as the agent, and in behalf of the
company, was fully competent to convey the articles in contest between the parties to this suit. The Circuit Court decided that as
the legal existnDce of the corporation was not'shown, it was not
proved to be the deed of the corporation; but as the property con.
veyed -was that of the individuals represented by Mr. Greene, and
the deed was made with the individual approbation of the owners,
it was sufficient. This decision was correct. The individuals composing the corporation were in partnership, transacting business as
partners, when the charter Was granted. By the charter, the property vested in the corporation; and each of the corporators are
made individuRlly liable for the corporate debts. Mr. Greene was
the agent beforp and after the charter was granted.
If the Union Steam Mill Company were not a corporation, they
were a copartnership. If the property ift
question did not belong
to them as a corporation, it belonged to them as. a copartnership.
This copartnership acted by an agent, and always had so acted.
The deed in quesfon was executed by this agent, with the-assent
of all the copartners.
The deed in form purports to be executed by the corpoation;
but if in law there was no corporation, and the property in qufestion
was held by the corporators as copartners, still the deed is compe,
tent, as their individual act, to convey the property.

428

SUPREME CO.URT.
[Anthony vs. Butlef.]

It is not material whether the company held the property as a
copartnership, or as a corporation. If the deed was executed by
the agent of the company, with the assent of all the stockholders or
copartners, they are bound by it. If they, or an attaching creditor,
could be allowed to set up their title as copartners against the present deed, the charter would become an instrument of the grossest
fraud. They hold themselves out to the defendant in error as a
corporation, and as such, owning the property in question, and having legal authority to convey the same to him by deed of mortgage.
Upon the faith of these representations, the defendant in error parts
with his money, and takes his mortgage. He is then told that the
parties who made the mortgage in the character of corporators, were
copartners ; and that, as they owned the property as partners and not
as a corporation, he takes nothing by his deed.
It is not necessary to pass personal property that the conveyance
shall be by deed. It may pass by an ordinary bill of sale, or bill of
parcels. In this case, the transfer of the gob ds by sale was made
by Daniel Greene, and this mortgage was assented to expressly by
every member of the company. Cited, Strod vs. Wyse, 7 Conn. R.
214. Coe vs. Talcott, 5 Day's Rep. 88.
There is a large class of cases, in which deeds not being competent
to effectuate the intent of the parties in the form in which they have
been drawn, have been construed to operate in another way in,
order to effectuate that intent. Thus it has been decided that a deed
which was intended to operate as a lease and release, or bargain'
and sale, but could not take effect in that manner; should operate
as a covenant to stand seized. 4 Cruise Dig. p. 299, sec. 31. A
deed intended to operate as a bargain and sale, but which was void
for want of a pecuniary consideration, has been held to operate as
a confirmation. Ibid. sec. 32. See also Roe vs. Tranmer et at.
2 Wilson Rep. 15. Wallis vs. Wallis, 4 Mass. Rep. 135. Marshall
vs. Fish, 6 Mass. Rep. 24. Cox et al. vs. Edwards, 14 Mass. Rep.
491. 1 Hen. Black, 313. Vere vs. Lewis, 3 Term Rep. 182. Gibson vs. Hunter, 2 Hen. Black. 187.
It is said by, the plaintiff in error, that if the: Union Steam Mill
Company had no corporate existence, there was no grantor to the
deed. This would be allowing a party to take advantage of his
own fraud. A corporate deed is the forih in which the owners of
the property chose to convey it, and they are bound by such a deed
in the same mariner that they would have been had they chosen, to
convey it under assumed names. If a man executes a bond or any
other instrument under an assumed name, he is bound by it in the
,same manner as if he had executed it in his true name,
The next question is, was the deed sufficiently recorded?
The plaintiff in error objects that this mortgage deed should have
been recorded in a book for the record of mortgages of personal
property only. This question depends on the true construction of
the act of the assembly of Rhode Island, passed January, 1834.
The defendant in error contends that this statute. does not apply,

JANUARY TERM, 1839

429

[Anthony vs. Butler.]

to a mortgage, comprehending real and personal estate; the personal
being incident to and connected with the real, both the real and
personal forming an entire estate. By such a deed the personal
would pass as incident to the real, without being mentioned. If A.
conveys his cotton mill to B., the machinery in the mill will pass as
much as the mill itself, or' the land on which it stands, or the dams
and flumes which belong to the mill, if it be ,a water mill. See
Whitney vs. Oluey et al. 3 Mason Rep. 280. Gennings vs. Lake,
Croke Car. 168. Boocher vs. Samford, Croke Eliz. 113. Yates vs.
Clincard, Croke Eliz. 704. Doe vs. Collins, 2 Term Rep. 498.
The mortgage to the defendant in error was "of all the machinery
in the said factory." The construction of the law relative to recording mortgages, which is claimed by the plaintiff in errorwould make
this deed essentially'different from what was intended by the parties
to it. It was a mortgage of real estate, carrying with it, as appurtenant to the real'estate, the machinery in the mill. The mortgagor
has, by the law of Rhode Island, three years after the mortgage is
-foreclosed to redeem. The defendant in error could not have taken
the personal property out of the mill and sold it.
Under the mortgage the defendant could take no possession of
the property, but as an incident to the mill.. This possession of the
property was only as stch an incident; and if an ejectment were
br6ught, the machinery would be recovered as an incident to the
mill.
If, then, the estate conveyed by the mortgage, personal as well
as real, is redeemable as real estate; if the general rights and obligations of the parties to this mortgage, be the rights and obligations
of the parties to a mortgage of real estate, the defendant in error
contends that it is not to be recorded as a mortgage of personal property, under the act of January5 1834.
The object of the act was.to give notice of the existence of the
incumbrance. That object is answered by a record in one boQk, as
well as by a record in two. To require a double record to be made
in the same office, would be requiring the performance of an idle
ceremony; which would be no benefit to those who are entitled to
notice,, and failure to perform which would subject an innocent
mortgagee to the loss of his property.
The defendants in error contend that'the provisions of the recording act are only directory to the town clerks-and the law is complied
with by the recording of the deed in the town clerk's office. If recorded in the office of the town clerk, it is all-sufficient.
The town clerk is' the keeper of-the records, and he of course
knows where to find the record of any instrument. He alone has
a right to search them, at the expense of a party inquiring. It is
for him to iaake such arrangements for the recording of papers, as
will give him the best means of making an accurate search. Cited
as to the construction of statutes, in the manner contended for by
the counsel for the defendant in error, Rex vs. Loxdale, 1 Bury.
447. Rex vs. Sparrow, 2 Strange, 1123. Rex vs. The Inhabitants

430

SUPREME COURT.
[Anthony vs. Butler.]

of Bunningham, 8 Barn. and Cres. 29. Beverley vs. Ellis, 102.
Brackenridge vs. Todd, 3 Mpnroe Rep. 54. The defendant in error
also contended, that according to the true c6nstrwtion of the act,
the mortgage was properly recorded in the record of mortgages of.
personal property. The book of mortgages of real estate is wholly
unknown to the registry laws of Rhode Island. The law does not
contemplate mortgages of real estate to be recorded in one book, and
absolute deeds in another. It makes no distinction between them;
nor ,bet\veen mortgages, and any other conveyance of real estate.
The defendant in error further contends, that the certificate of the
town clerk is conclusive evidence of the fact§ therein stated.
He alone is the recording officer. He alone is entitled to the
custody of the records; and he alone is the certifying officer. See
Laws of Rhode "Island, 878. He certifies the day and the hour
when the mortgage was. left for record. His certificate of, this
fact, and of the fact that the record has been made, cannot be contradicted. CitedTracy vs. Jenckes, 15 Pickering's Rep. 465. Frost
vs. Beekman, 1Johns. Chan. Rep. 288.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error, in reply, aenied that a deed
or any other conveyance, purporting to be executed by a corpora.
tion, and using such terms as are proper to convey property, could
be taken as the joint deed of these individual corporators. Nor
could such a deed be made to operate as a joint deed of the individuals, on the ground that the corporators had committed a fraud
by holding themselves out as capable of making such a deed,
Nor could the deed operate as an estoppel.
An
Co. Lit. 352a.
An estoppel does not bind a stranger.
e stoppel does not bind mere strangers, or those who claim*by title
paramount the deed. It does not bind persons claiming by an
adverse title, &c. Carver vs. Astor, 4 Peters, 83.
Simply recording a mortgage in the town clerk's office in any
book, would not in the judgment of the general assembly have
accomplished this object; because, in practice, the records in the
town clerk's office are open at all convenient hours to public inspection; are searched, as matter of right, by every freeman and
freeholder; and the town clerk himself is not exclusively entitled to
their perusal, although when called upon to search the same, he is
by law entitled to certhin fees. We believe this practice to be common to every state in the Union. The legislature were well aware
of its existence in Rhode Island; and in passing the act in question,
they manifestly intended that the record of mortgages of personal
property should be so made that every person interested might know
with certainty where to look for it. If it were not so, where was
the necessity of prescribing the mode and place of record? If the
town clerk had the .exclusive right to search/the records, and the
community were dependent on him solely for information as to
their contents, why the necessity of directing him as to the place
wherp to make the record?

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

431

[Anthony vs. Butler.]

In conclusion, the statute of February, 1,34, is a remedial statute;
the whole must be construed together in order to effectuate the
remedy provided, and prevent the mischief contemplated by the
statute: and the deed in question was not recorded prior to the
levy by the plaintiff on error on the articles named in the writ of
replevin of the defendant in error, in conformity with the provisions
of said statute.
Mr. Justice MLEAN delivered the opinion of the.Court.
This case is brought before this Court by a writ of error to the
Circuit Court of Rhode Island.
The defendant, Cyrus Butler, commenced an action of replevin
against the plaintiff in error, for various articles of personal property
specified in the writ of replevin, and claimed by him under a mortgage dated the 20th day of November, 1837. The defendant had
taken possession of the' prdperty, by virtue of an execution directed
to him as marshal, on a judgment against the mortgagors.
On the trial,.ceftain exceptions were taken to the rulings of the
Court, which bring the question.,Q decided before this Court.
The mortgage was executed by one Daniel Greene, as the agent
of the Union Steam Mill Company, said company being a malufacturing corporation, conveying to the plaintiff below certain lands,
with a woollen mill and other buildings, with the machinery in said
mill; &c. And the incorporating act and several acts amendatory
thereto were read in evidence. And also a deed from William P.
Salisbury to the said Greene, dated the 18th May, 1837, conveying
all his interest in the real and personal property of the Union Steam
Mill CompanAnd it was proved that Daniel Greene, who executed the deed first
aforesaid, was, and had been from the time of the formation of said
company, the general agent, and, as such, had made all purchases
and sales for the company and that the deed was executed by him
with the consent and authority of said company: and also by and
with the consent and authority of the persons who, at the time of
theThe
execution
thereof, were members of said company.
Court decided
that the said corporation was not so proved
as to entitle the dejed to be read to the jury as the deed.of the'said
corporation; but that the deed was good to convey a valid title to
the articles named in the writ of replevin. To this decision the
counsel for the defendant excepted.
And it was further objected to said deed, that it did not appear
that the same had been recorded prior to the defendant's levy ol
the articles by the writ of replevin, in conformity to the statute on
the subject. The counsel for the plaintiff produced and read to the
Court an endorsement on the back of said deed, signed by the clerk
of the town of East Greenwich, in the words and figures following,
to wit: "Lodged in the town clerk's office, to record, Nov. 20th,
1837, at 5 o'clock P. M., and recorded same day in the records of
mortgages in East Greenwich, book No. 4, &."1

432

SUPRE ME COURT.
[Anthony vs. Butler.)

It was proved that the said clerk kept a book in which all mortgages df personal property only were recorded-; and all other mortgages, which included real estate, were recorded in other books kept
in the office. After the deed was recorded, it was taken away by
the plaintiff below; and afterwards, on the 14th November, 1838,
was returned by him tQ said office, when it was recorded in the book
kept for mortgages of personal property. And the Court decided
that said certificate was sufficient evidence that the deed was duly
recorded. To which decision the .defendant excepted.
The above exceptions present two points for examination.
1. Whether the mortgage deed was valid,
2. Whether it was duly recorded.
To the decision of the Court, that the evidence did not show that
the stockholders had organized themselves under the act of incorporation, so as to enable them to execute a corporate deed, there was
no exception. This ruling of the Circuit Court is not, therefore,
brought before this Court.
The deed of mbrtgage purports to "beexecuted'by the corporation.
The Union Steam Mill Company is the name of the corporation;
and on the face of the deed, the company is stated to have been le.gally incorporated. Daniel Greene, as the agent of the company,
and in its name, signed the deed, and affixed to it the seal of the
corporation.
And the counsel for the plaintiff in error insist, that this mortgage
can only be operative as the deed of the corporation. That if it be
not the deed of the corporation, it is no deed. And that in no sense
can it be considered the deed of the stockholders of the Union
Steam Mill Company, as partners; independent of the act of incorporation.
This, it is said, would be giving a different effect to the deed from
that which was intended by the parties who executed it. They
bind themselves as corporators, and convey, as such, the property of
the corporation ; and to hold that the deed binds them in any other
capacity, or conveys the property in any other, would not only%essentially vary the terms of the deed, as clearly expressed upon its
face, but it would be a fraud against the creditors'of the company.
And it is also insisted, that thd deed, being under seal, and executed by only one of the partners, cannot bind the company.
From the record it appears that this company did business before
the act of incorporation was passed, and that Daniel Greene acted
as its agent. And that after the deed of William P. Salisbury, conveying to the, company all his interest in the property, in May,
1837, Daniel Greene and R. W. Dickinson composed the stockholders of the company. And it appears, after they assumed their corporate functions, much formality was observed in the record of their
proceedings.
I Greene acted as chairman and Dickinson as secretary: motions were
made, and, as it would seem, were unanimously decided. A special
meeting of the stockholders was called, on the subject of executing

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

433

[Anthony v8. Butler.]

the mortgage, by a formal note, addressed by R. W. Dickinson, as
clerk, to Daniel Greene, a4d another to himself.
In their business proceedings, generally, as well as' in the execution f the mortgage, these individuals assumed to act as a corporation. But they were not authorized to act in this capacity. This
fact must be taken as granted, at least so far as the decision of the
present case.
And here a question arises, whether the acts of these individuals,
in their assumed character as corporators, are void. May they hold
themselves out to the world as entitled to certain corporate 'privileges, when they were not so entitled.; and, afterwards avoid their
contract on this ground ? This would be a somewhat new, and cer-.
tainly a most successful mode of practising fraud. It would be
enabling a party to take advantage of his own wrong.
As the present controversy- involves only the right to the personal
property named in the'deed of mortgage, it is not necessary to consider the validity of that instrument beyond the effect it has an tbiso
property.
It is a well settled rule, tbough a very tbchnical one, that one
partner cannot bind his copartner by deed And it is equally well
settled, that one partner may dispose of the personal property of
the firm.
In this case, had an absolute sale and delivery of this property
been made by Greene, no one, in the absqnce of fraud, could have
questioned the title of the purchaser. But the mortgage was exe-,
cuted under seal, and Greene, it is alleged, could not bindhis partner by deed.
That these individual§, not being responsible on their contracts as
a corporation,or liable as copartners, is too clear to admit of 'doubt.
The property of the company, both real and personal, was vested
in them ; and they controlled. its entire operations
The mortgage deed was executed on the 20th of November, 1837.
And it appears from the record, that Greene and Dickinson, unanimously resolved, that the mortgage should be executed by Greene
as agent of the corporatioh. And it was accordingly executed on
that day.
Now that one partner may bind his copartner by deed, if he be
present and assent to it,:is a well established principle.
The signature and seal of Greene are affixed to the mortgage;
and tha't this vas done with the assent of his copartner, Dickirison,
'is unquestionable. But was Dickinson present at the execution of
the mortgage, and did he then assent to it? We think tle..factsin
the record will warrant such a conclusion. The resolve of the
partners to give the nmortgage, and the execution of it, bear the same
date; and may well be considered the same transaction. This
seems to be-the fair result of the facts stated, and must be received
as prina facie evidence of the due execution of the deed.
These facts are liable to be rebutted by any one who questions
the validity of the deed.
Vol. XIII.-2 0
5

SUPREME COURT.
[Anthony v8.Butler.]

All 1hose parts of the deed, which refer to the corporation, including the corporate seal, may be rejected as surplusage, which do not
vitiate it. They are considered as merely descriptive, and being
-false in fact, can have no effect on the deed.
The seal of one partner to a deed, with the assent of the copartner, will bind the firm.
From these considerations we think the Circuit Court did not err,
in receiving the mortgage deed in evidence,; treating it as a valid
instrument; as it respects the rights involved in this suit.
2. Was this mortgage duly recorded? By an act of the legislature of Rhode Island, passed at the January session, 1834; entitled
"an act to prevent fraud in the transfer of personal property," it is
provided, that no mortgage of personal property, except as betweep
the parties, shall be valid; unless possession accompany the deed, or
it be recorded in the office of the towri clerk. In the second section
it is-made the duty of the clerk to record such mortgages in a book
kept for that purpose.
It appears from the evidence, that the town clerk kept a book in,
his office in which he recorded all mortgages of personal property;
and 4ll other mortgages which included real estate, or real. estate
and personal, were recorded in other books kept in said office, in
one of which this mortgage was recorded. And the question is,
whether such a registration is sufficient under the statute.
The object of the recording act is to give notice to subsequent
purchasers. The statute undoubtedly requires the clerk to .record
mortgages for personal property only, in a book kept for that purpose. This being the requirement of the law, to which the clerk
strictly conformed, there could be no uncertainty in searching the
record for a personal mortgage.
But it seems- that the statute did not expxessly provide, in what
book 4, mortgage like the one under consideration, for both real and
personal property, should be recorded. And it appears that it was
the usage of the office, to record such mortgages in the book which
contains mortgages for real estate.
Now if this be insufficient, nothing short of recording such a
deed in both books, could be held a cor. liance with the.statute.
And can this be necessary? The conveyance of the personal and
real property is so blended in the mortgage, as to be inseparable.
To require a dolible record would seem to be an unreasonable construction.,Df the statute, as it cannot be necessary to effectuate its
object. Both records axe kept in the same office, and by th6 same
person; who performs the duties of the office, and must always be
well acquainted with its usage. Any inquiry of the clerk for the
record of a mortgage like the one under consideration, would as
certainly lead to it, under the Isage as if it were recorded in both
.books.
If this mortgage had been recorded in the book for personal
mortgages,the same strictness as now contended fbr might be urged

JANUARY TERM, 1839.,

435

[Anthony va. Butler.]

against such record book, as it would not then be kept exclusively,
for personal mortgages.
We think that this mortgage has been recorded in a book kept,
though not exclusively, for the purpose of recording -mortgages
which convey real and personal property; and that it is within a
fair construction of the statute.
We think also, that the Circuit Court did not err, in deciding that
the certificate of the clerk was, sufficient evidence that the mortgage deed was duly recorded. The judgment of the Circuit Court,
not being erroneous, is affirmed with costs.

