JANUARY TERM, 1839.

Ex

PARTE, IN THE MATTER OF'DUNCAN N.

HENNEN.

The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, residing in the fourth Circuit, who, under the act
of Congress of 1802, ch. 31, holds the Court at the August term, has not power to grant
a rule for a mandamus, or a rule to show cause why &mandamus shall not issue. Such
a rule doeg not fall within the description of cass ennumerated in the act of Congress, for
the action of the Court, et the August term.

AT the August term. 1838, of the Court, Duncan N. Hennen filed
a petition fdr a mandanmus to the Honourable Philip K. Lawrence,
judge of the District Court of the United States for the eastern
district of Louisiana, requiring the said judge to restore Duncan N.
Hennen to the office of clerk of the District Court.
Coxe, of counsel for the petitioner, filed and read the petition
which was addressed to the Chief Justice and associate justices of
the Supreme Court; setting forth that on the 21st day of February,
1834, the petitioner was appointed clerk of the District Court of the
United States in and for the eastern district of Louisiana, by the
Honourable Samuel H. Harper, judge of the District Court, and a
commission was given to him appointing him to the said office.
The petitioner states that the appointment was accepted, and the
same was recorded on the minutes of the District Court on the day
of the appointment, and the oath of office, and a bond was given by
the petitioner, with sureties, in conformity with the provisions of the
statute in such case made and provided, for the faithful performance
of the duties of the said office; all of which was, also entered on
the minutes of the Court.
The petitioner further states, that Duncan N. Hennen entered on
the duties of the Office of clerk of the District Court for the
eastern district of Louisiana, and held the same, and continued to
perform the duties thereunto appertaining "methodically, promptly,
skilfully, and uprightly," to the satisfaction of the said District
Court, and of the parties suitors in the said Court. That by virtue
of' the appointment, and of the provisions of the statute in such
case made and provided, the petitioner was, also, from the period
of the organization of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
said district of Louisiana, in like manner, the clerk ,of the said Circuit Court, and performed all, the duties appertaining to said office ;
and during the period aforesaid, the petitioner, in like manner,
received the fees and emoluments of office belonging to the same.
The petitioner further states, that he so continued to perform the
said duties, and to receive the said embluments, and in all respects
to hold and occupy said offices, until on or about the 18th day of
'May, in the year 1838, when he received a communication from the
Honourable Philip K. Lawrence, then and now the judge of the
said' District Court of the United States for the eastern district of
Louisiana, in the following terms :29

226

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.J

'

" New Orleans, May ISt, 1838.
DEAR SIR :-The object of this comnmnication is to apprize you

of your iemnoval from the office of clerk of the United States District
Court of the eastern district of Louisiana, and of the appointment
of'Mr. John Winthrop in your place.
" In taking this step, I desire to, be understood as neither prompted
by any unfriendly disposition towards you personally, nor wishing
to cast the slightest shade of censure on your official conduct.
"On the cpntrary, whether it will afford you any gratification to
be thus assured or not, I avail myself of the occasion to declare to
you, that my most ardent wishes respecting you are for your entire
success and prosperity in life. I consider it due to myself to have
made this declaration; and a sense of justice to you demands that I
should do what lies in my power to repel any unfavourable inference that might be drawn from your dismissal from the office of
clerk, in regard to the manner ir which the duties of the office have
been discharged by you. On this subject, the situation in which I
have been placed during the last two years and upwards, has afforded me the means of speaking advisedly; and I am happy in
beinig able to testify, as I now do unreservedly, that the business
of your office, during that period, has been conducted methodically,
promptly, skilfully, and uprightly.
"In appointing Mr. Winthirop to succeed you, I have been purely
actuated by a sense of duty and feelings of kindness towards on6
whom I have long known, and between whom and myself the closest
friendship has always subsisted. I cannot but consider his claims
to any benefit in my power to confer, as of a paramount character;
and as his capacity to fill the office in questilon cannot be disputed,
I feel triat I am not exercising any unjust preference in bestowing
on him the appointment. I am, very respectfully, &c.
"P. K. LAWRENCE,
"United States Judge, District of Louisiana.
"To D. N. HENNEN, Esq."
The petitioner proceeded to state, that on the 18th day of May, 1838,
Judge Lawrence executed and delivered to John Winthrop a paper
purporting to be a commission appointing him clerk of the District
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana;
and that Mr. Winthrop, under and by virtue ot that commission,
claims a right to hold the said office, and does, in fact, to a certain.
extent, exercise the duties appertaining thereto; and he is by Judge
Lawrence recognised as the only legal clerk of the District Court,
and receives the fees and emoluments of said office. He has obtained possession of the records, minutes, and documents of the
office, and he claims to exercise all the duties of clerk of the District
Court; and he and Judge Lawrence prevent the petitioner from
performing anyj of the duties of clerk, or receiving the fees and
emoluments belonging to the office.
The petitioner. further stated, that on the 21st day of May, 1838,

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

227

[Ex p rte Duncan N. Hennen.]

the Circuit Court of the United States for the eastern district. of
Louisiana met, according to law, when the Honourable John
M'Kinley, one of the associate justices of the Supreme Court of the
United States, and the said Judge Lawrence, took their seats on the
bench as judges of the Circuit Court; and the petitioner and John
Winthrop severally presented themselves, each claiming to be rightfully and lawfully the clerk of the Circuit Court; and the matter
was argued by counsel for each of the said claimants. The judges
differed in opinion on the question of right; and being unable to
concur in opinion, neither of the said parties was admitted to act as
clrk, or recognised by the Court as being the rightful clerk; and -no
business was or could be transacted, and the Court adjourned.
The petitioner further represents, that he is advised, and verily
believes, that he was legally and in due form appointed the clerk
of the said District Court, and by virtue thereof became lawfully the
clerk of the said Circuit Court; and he has never resigned the said
office, or been legally removed from the 'same, and he is rightfully
entitled to hold and exercise the same, and to receive the fees and
emoluments to the same belonging; and that-he is illegally kept out
of the said office of clerk of the said District Court, and prevented
from performing the duties thereof, and from receivifig the fees and
emoluments attached to the same, by the illegal acts and conduct
of the said Philip K. Lawrence, judge as aforesaid, and bf' the said'
John Winthrop, claiming to hold the said office by some pretended,
but, as the petitioner is advised and believes, illegal and void appointment or commission, from said Judge Lawrence.
The petitioner further states, that the judges of the said Circuit
Court continue to differ in opinion as to the legal rights of the petitioner and said John Winthrop to said offices, so that no one does
or can perform the duties of said office of clerk of the Circuit Court
aforesaid; and that the suitors in this Court are thereby delayed,
and the administration of justice therein wholly suspended, and the
appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the United States
over the judgments and decrees of said Circuit Court is wholly
suspended, and incapable of being exercised.
All these evils are stated to be remediless in the ordinary procoedings- before the District and Circuit Court, and can only be terminated by the interposition of this Court, by its extraordinary pro-i
cess of mandamus. The petitioner therefore prays, that a writ of mandamns may be awarded to be directed to the Honourable Philip K.
Lawrence, judge of the said District Court of the United States for
the eastern district of Louisiana, commanding him that he forthwith restore the petitioner to his office of clerk of said District Court
of th, United States for the eastern district of Louisiana; or -for a,
rule on the district judge, to show cause why such a writ of mandamus shall not be awarded.
Mr. Chief Justice Taney, then holding the August term of the
Supreme Court, ordered that a rule on Philip K. Lawrence, district
judge as aforesaid, should be awarded, requiring him to show cause,

SUPREME COURT
[Ex pate Duncan N. Hennen.]

at the following January term of the Supreme Court, why a mandamus should not be awarded, to the district judge, as prayed for;
with leave to any party interested in the premises to move for a
discharge thereof on or before the return day, the second Saturday
of the term. Notice of this rule was required to be served on the
district judge, and on John Winthrop, Esq.
Before the return 'of the rule, Mr. Gilpin, of co'unsel for John
Winthrop, Esq., moved the Court to discharge the rule granted by
Mr. Chief Justice Taney, at the August term of the Court; on the
ground that the Couirt held at that time had not authority to make
such a rule. He stated the readiness of Mr. Winthrop to meet the
question raised by the proceedings; and proposed that there should
be substituted a rule, to be now granted by'the Court, of the same
tenor with that made at the August term; and that the same should
be returnable on the second Saturday of this term.
This proposition was accepted by the counsel of the relator, and
approved by the Court.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the following opinion, on the
motion of Mr. Gilpin:
At the August term of the Supreme Court, held by the Chief
Justice or Judge for the fourth circuit, according to the act of Congress of 1802, a motion was made for a rule on the judge of the
District Court of the United States, for the eastern district of
Louisiana, to show cause why a mandamus should not issue, commanding the said judge to restore Duncan N. Hennen to the office
of clerk of the said DistrictCourt.
It appeared from the depositions and other evidence laid before
the Court at that term, that Duncan N. Hennen, the relator, who
had been for several years clerk of the District Court,' had been
recently removed from office by the district judge, and John Winthrop appointed in his place; and a letter from the judge to the
relator was produced, stating that the removal had not been made
on account. of any misconduct on his part, but merely from the desire of the judge to make provision for Winthrop, who was his
personal friend, and well qualified for the office. It also appeared,
that at the meeting of the Circuit Court, which took place shortly
afterwards, the presiding judge of the Circuit Court was of opinion
that the removal was not authorized by law, and that Hennen was
still the clerk of the District Court, and consequently, by virtue of
the acts of Congress, was alsb the clerk of the Circuit Court; that the
district judge, however, adhered to his opinion, that Winthorp was
lawfully appointed by him, and the Court being thus divided, neither of the claimants could be recognised, as clerk; and that the
whole business of the Circuit Court was therefore continued over,
and that no process could now issue from the Court until this controversy should be settled.
Upon this evidence, the rule to show cause was granted, return-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

29

[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.)

able to the Supreme Court, on Saturday, the' 26th of January, with
leave to the district judge to move to discharge the rule, even before the return day above mentioned.
A motion was now made to discharge the rule, upon the ground
that the judge of the Fourth Circuit, sitting alone at the August
term, had, not the power to lay the rule. The Court stopped the
counsel, in support of the motion, and the Chief Justice said :-The
Court do not desire an argument on the subject. When I granted
the rule, 1 stated that I strongly inclined to the opinion that. I had
no power to lay such a rule, in any case, at the August Term; and
it is due to the counsel for the relator to say, that he acknowledged
his own doubts when he brought the subject before the Court. But
as the question was an important one, and might again occur; I
thought it proper that it should be settled by the -judgment of the
Court at its regular session, and not by a single judge. I therefore
laid the rule, because it was the only mode in which I could bring
the subject before the Court for decision. We have conferred together since we assembled for the present session, and we are unanimously of opinion that such a rule cannot be laid at the August
term; that the act of 1802, ch. 31. (2 Story's Laws U. S. page 854,)
gives the power to the judge of the Fourth Circuit, at that term,
"to make all necessary orders touching any suit, action, appeal,
writ of error, process, pleadings, or proceedings, returned to the said
Court, or depending therein ;" but that a rule to show cause why a
mandamus should not issue, does not fAll within the description of
cases enumerated in the act of Congress: and that the judge of the
Fourth Circuit, when sitting at the August term, has not, therefore,
the power to grant such a rule in any case.
The rule to show cause must therefore be discharged.

VOL. XIII.--U

SUPREME COURT.

Ex

PARTE, IN THE MATTER

OF DUNCAN N.

HENNEN.

Mandamus. Motion for a rule on the district judge of the eastern district of Louisiana,
to show cause why a mandamus should not be issued requiring him to restore Duncan
N. Hennen t the office of the clerk of the District Court. The petition states the appointment of the relator to the offie of clerk of the District Court, in 1834; the full
and complete performance of his duties as clerk of the Court, until May 1837; the acknowledgment of the fidelity and capacity with- which the duties of the office were
performed, stated in writing by the district judge; and the appointment of another
person to the office, from personal motives, and the influence of friendship, and a knowledge of the capacity of the person appointed to perform the duties of the office. The
petition also states the performance of the duties of clerk of the Circuit Court of the
eastern district of Louisiana, under the appointment as clerk of the District Court, and
the offer to perform those duties after his asserted removal as clerk of the District Court;
and that the judges- f the Circuit'Court being divided in opinion as to his right to exercise the office of clerk, the business of the Circuit Court was entirely suspended.
The appointment of clerks of Courts, properly belongs to the Courts of law; and a clerk
of the Court is one of those officers contemplated by the provision in the Constitution,
giving to Congress the power to vest the appointment of inferior officerF as they think
proper. The appointing power designated by the Constitution, in the latter part of the
second section of the second article of the Constitution, was no doubt intended to be
exoercised by the depatment of the government to which the officer to be appointed most
appropriately belonged.
It cannot be admitted that it was the intention of the Constitution, that those offices which
are denominated inferior offices should be held during life.- In the absence of all constitutional or statutory provision as to the removal of such officers, it Would seem to be a
sound and necessary rule to consider the power of removal as incident to the power of
appointment.
The tenure of ancient common law offices, and the rules and principles by which they are
governed, have no application to the office of the clerk of a District Court of the United
States. The 'tenure, in those cases, depends in a great measure upon ancient usage.
But in the United States there is no ancient usage, which can apply to and govern the
tenure of offices created by the Constitution and laws. They are of recent origin, and
must depend entirely on a just construction of our Constitution and laws: and the like
doctrine is held in England, where the office is not an. ancient common~law office, but
of modern origin, under sone act of Parliament. In such a case, the tenure of the
office is determined by the meaning and intention of the statute.
The law.giving the District Courts the power of appointing their own clerks, does not prescribe any form in which this shall be done. The power vested in the Court, is a continuing power; and the mere appointment of a successor would, per se, be a removal of
the prior incumbent; so far at least as his rights were concerned.
The Supreme Court can have no control over the appointment or removal of a clerk of the
District Court; or entertain any inquiry into the grounds of the removal. If the judge
is chargeable with any abuse of his power, the Supreme Court is not the tribunal to
which he is answetable.

THE Court having decided that the rule granted at the August
term of the Court, held by Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, should be
discharged; the counsel presented another petition to the Court,
setting forth the same facts as those stated in the petition, the matters of which are set forth i;' the report of the preceding case, with
others.
The additional facts stated in the petition were, that the petitioner
is in the full and undisputed possession of the seal of the Circuit
Court for the eastern district of Louisiana, and of the records of
the said Circuit Cburt.

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

231

(Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.)

That there is now pending in said Circuit Court, a cause in w mch
the petitioner, a citizen of the state of Louisiana, is the plaintiff,
and Rezin D. Shepherd, a citizen of Maryland, is the defendant;
that the value of the property in controversy between petitioner and
,aid Shepherd, exceeds in amount the sum of six thousand dollars in
cash. That in consequence of the disagreement between the judges
of the Circuit Court, and the refusal of Judge Lawrence to allow the
petitioner, the true and lawful clerk of said .Court, to perform the
duties thereof, the petitioner is prevented from proceeding in said
cause; and the petitioner is prevented from bringing the said cause
up to this Court for its final decision.
The petitioner further states, that the judges of the said Circuit
Court continue to differ in opinion, as to the legal rights of the
petitioner and said John Winthrop to the offices of clerk of the
District and Circuit Courts, so that no one does or can perform the
duties of the office of clerk of the Circuit Court aforesaid; and that
the suitors in said Court are thereby delayed, and the administration of justice therein wholly suspended; and the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the United States over the judgments
and.decrees of said Circuit Court wholly suspended, and incapable
*of being exercised.
"All which evils are remediless at and by the ordinary proceeding before the said District or Circuit Courts, and can only be ternuinated and redressed by the interposition of this honourable Court,
by its extraordinary process of mandamus."
The petition prays that the Court, after consideration, will award
a writ of mandamus to be directed to the Honourable Philip K.
Lawrence, judge of the District Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, commanding him forthwith to restore
the-petitioner to his office of clerk of the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
By an agreement between the counsel for the relator and the
judge of the District Court of Louisiana, the questions- presented
to the Court on the petition were argued; the usual notice being
dispensed with.
The motion for a mandamus was argued by Coxe and Mr.
Southard, for the relator, and by Mr. Gilpin and Mr. Jones, for the
District Judge of Louisiana.
Mr. Coxe, with whom was Mr. Southard:The case, which it is proposed to submit to the consideration of
the Court, is one equally novel and interesting. The principles
which it involves are alike important to the r , . ities on the record
and to the public.
It is a case of the first impression; for although on a cursory and
superficial examination, it may be thought to bear an analogy to
others which have been heretofore and elsewhere discussed and
disposed of, a more careful examination will make it perfectly apparent that it i.s now for the first time, in its naked simplicity, pre-

232

SUPREME COURT.
(Ex pdre Duncan X. Nenenm

sented for investigation and decision. At all events, it is, beyond all
doubt, now for the first time exhibited as the subject of judicial
consideration.
The record presents a plain and unembarrassed case. In 1834
Mr. Hennen, the relator, was duly appointed to the office of clerk
of the District Court for -the eastern district of Louisiana. He accepted the appointment, took the oath of office prescribed by law,
and gave a bond with sureties, approved by the judge, conformably
to the provisions of the act of Congress. Of all these facts the
record contains the most abundant evidence.
He continued to hold this office, and to perform its duties " methodically. promptly, skilfully, and uprightly," until the 18th of
May, 1838; when he received from the Honourable Philip K. Lawrence, who then held the office of district judge, the letter which is
contained in the record.
'This letter demands the earnest ,attention of the Court.
1. It purports to be an act of removal of Mr. Hennen from the
office which he held, and the appointment of Mr. Winthrop as his
successor.
2. It contains the highest testimonials to the qualifications of
every kind of Mr. Hennen for the office which he held, and the
fidelity and skill with which he had discharged its duties.
3. It assigns, as the only reason for the exercise of the power
with which he claims to be invested as a public officer, "a sense of
duty, and feelings of kindness towards one, between whom and
himself the closest friendship had ever.existed."
He considers the
claims of his personal friend to every benefit in his power to confer
in the exercise of his official, functions, "as of a paramount character."
This letter, then, raises for the .consideration of the Court three
distinct propositions.
1. That, by law, the district judge possesses the power, acting
ministerially, not judicially, to remove from office the clerk of the
District Court.
2. That he may lawfully exercise this power, at his own absolute
wll, in the case of a public officer of acknowledged merit and undoubted qualifications; in the absence of any act of misfeasance or
nonfeasance.
3. That he may lawfully employ a- power contided to him as a
public officer, for public purposes, as a means of gratifying the calls
of private friendship; And that in the exercise of such an authority,
he recognises the claims of personal fiendship as of a para mount
character.
Such are the doctrines promulgated by the learned judge. How
far they are correct it is for this Court to pronounce. They are at
least new, if they are not equally illegal. They are at least antirepublican, if they be not also uinconstitutional.
1. The only source from which the power which is claimed can
be derived, is the 7th section of the judicial act of 1789, (2 L. U. R.

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

233

[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.]

59,) which provides that the Supreme Court and the District Courts
shall have power to appoint clerks for their respective Courts. It
is a power vested in these Colurts, as Courts. Does it involve, by,
necessary implication, the power of removal.
The power of removal from -office, as an incident to the power
of appointment, has been much discussed as a political question;
from the period of. the first Congress to the present day. Although
by many it is considered as a settled question, it is believed that a
careful examination of the proceedings of that Congress will conduct us to the conclusion, that so far as regards the case at bar, if
any authoritative opinion has been expressed, it is hostile to the
power now claimed.
In the Congress of 1789, the question did arise, whether or not
the President possessed the power of removing from office a head
of one of the executive departments. The debate on that question
elicited the best talents of the able men who then adorned the
House of Representatives. As that debate has been sometimes
erroneously reported, and as frequently misapprehended; it will be
ihportant to give to it a careful attention.
It originated in the House of Representatives, and grew out of a
,clause in the bill which provided for the organization, of an executive department, to be styled the department of foreign affairs. This
bill contained a clause, which provided that the secretaryshould be
removable by the President. It appears to have been discussed in
committee before the debate occurred in the House; and it was,
therefore, not taken up in the House as entirely a new question, but
One to which the attention of members had already been directed.
The debate continued several days; and from the very full and
accurate report recently furnished to the public, (1 Gales and Seaton's Register of Debates, 473,) four entirely distinct opinions may be
perceived to have existed in relation to the subject.
1. That inasmuch as under the Constitution, the Senate were to
participate in appointing to office, it must also have an equal participation in the act of removal. Messrs. White, Sherman, lackson,
Stone, Gerry, and-others, maintained this doctrine.
2. That as the Consfitution did, in terms, provide for the removal
of officers, by the, process of impeachment, for certain specified
causes, removal in any other manner, or for any other cause, was
impliedly excluded. Messrs. Smith and Huntingdon were among
the most prominent who asserted this proposition.
3. That as Congress possessed the power of creating the office, it
was competent for the legislative department to prescribe its duration; and the manner in which, and the power by whom, the officer
might be removed. Messrs. Lawrence, Jackson, Lee, Sylvester,
and others, concurred in this view of the subject.
4. That as an incident to the executive power, and a necessary
means of enabling him to perform his own constitutional duties, the
power of removal belongs exclusively and absolutely to the President, when no other, tenure of office is prescribed. Messrs. Madison,
U2

30

234

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.]

Boudinot, Ames, Sedgwick, Vining, Hartley, Clymer, Benson,
Goodhue, Baldwin, and others, asserted this to be the true -constitutional doctrine.
The decision of the House was finally had upon a motion to strike
out the clause, which in terms conferred the power of removing
upon the President, and inserting a clause which provided for a
substitute for the principal officer, "whenever he. shall be removed
by the President, or in any other case of vacancy." The motion to
strike out was carried by a vote of 31 to 19 ; and that to insert, 30
to 18. 1 Gales and Seaton's Debates, 600, 601. This decision of
the House of Representatives was concurred in by the Senate, by
the casting vote of the vice-president.
A difference occurred in regard to the organization of the treasury
department, between the two houses; and it was finally adjusted
by a species of compromise. The Senate receded from an amendment they had made to the House bill, which struck out the clause
making the secretary removable by the President; and the House
concurred in changing the title which, as originally drafted, designated the treasury as an executive department.
The proceedings of the Senate were at that, period secret, and
therefore there exists no record of the debates in that body. An
examination, however, of the debate in the House, will show that
substantially the decision was:, 1That the power of appointment was a concurrent one, which
the President and Senate exercised concurrently'; and that this did
iot by implication vest the power of removal in these two distinct
authorities, as growing out of the expressly grantedpower.
2. That the power of removal belonged to the President, not
simply in copsequence of his having an agency in the appointment,
but as the executive of the nation, compelled to resort to agents as
the instruments by which lie was to perform his duties; and being
responsible for the conduct of such agents, he must necessarily possess the power of appointment and removal, at his own single
pleasfire.
It is perfectly manifest, then, that these proceedings of the Congress, of 1789, cannot justly be considered as a legislative exposition
of the Constitution, that the power of appointment necessarily implies a power of removal. To'the extent to which the case at bar
would carry this doctrine, these proceedings give it not the least
countenance.
It is equally apparent, that the arguments advanced on that occasion in favour of the executive power of removal, leave the case at
bar untouched. While, therefore, we regard with great respect the
opinions then promulgated by the fathers of the country and of the
Constitution, and are disposed to leave them wholly unquestioned; the
distinction between the question then decided, and that now under
consideration, is widely different.
It is conceded, that in the exercise of a high political power, the
President possesses, and ought to have, a large discretion on the

JANUAftY TERM, 1839.

235

[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.]

subject-of removal. As the executive magistrate of the country, he
is the only functionary intrusted with the foreign relations of the
nation. The secretary of state and foreign ministers are the agents
through whom he performs these duties of his office. He is the commander in chief of the army and navy, and the secretaries of these departments are his agents in communicating his orders and instructions.
Being responsible for the manner in which these high trusts are
executed, he must, from the very nature of things, be at liberty to
employ and dismiss at pleasure those whom he employs as his
agents. The laws, therefore, which create those departments, expressly recognise this relationship and this control. Act of 27th
July, 1789, establishing the department of foreign affairs; act of 7th
August, 1789, establishing the department of war; and the act of
30th April, 1798, establishing the navy department.
Widely different is the relation which subsists between the Court
and its clerk. The latter is in no respect the agent of the former.
His duties are prescribed by law. He gives bond to the United
States for the security of those whose interests may be affected by
his malconduct. The Court which appoints him, is in no sense
responsible to those who may be injured by-his malpractices.
Another palpable difference exists between the cases The President may have occasion to exercise this power of removal summarily, in cases of great public exigency, and as a necessary means
of preserving the country from impending danger or dishonour;
and for causes the disclosure of which before he acted might involve the most serious consequences. Nor does any power exist to
accomplish the same good, and to ward off these dangers, in any
other mode. The Court, however, may arrest a clerk in his career
of misconduct, may enforce obedience to his duties, may punish for
misconduct, may remove for sufficient cause. This may all be done
judicially. This will be again adverted to in the subsequent part
of the argument.
The general proposition was advanced, but as confidently denied
in the debate in 1789, that the power of removal was an incident
of the power of appointment. It may be asserted that there is nothing either in the provisions of the Constitution, or in the principles
of our institutioris, which countenances the doctrine. By the express terms of the Constitution, the judges are independent of the
appointing power. The.President is appointed by electors, who,
having performed their constitutional function, are extinct; and have
no power or right to control the conduct of their appointee, or to
remove him from his high office. Such, also, is the case with the
vice-president. The senators are appointed by the state legislatures,
and such appointment is irrevocable. The members of the House
of Representatives, when once elected, are independent of those
whom they represent. In truth, the principle is nowhere found, except
in the executive department, and in the exercise of political power.
There is nothing in the office of clerk of a Court which requires
the application of this principle to him. A Court, in making such

236

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.]

an appointment, exercises not a judicial, but a purely ministerial
function. Such was the understanding of the respondent himself
in this case. He never would or dared to have assigned as his motive for exercising a judicial power in a particular mode, that it was
done in obedience to the paramount duty imposed on him by the
relations of private friendship. To assign such a reason for a judicial decision, would stamp it with condemnation. In performing this
merely ministerial functioi, he was executing a merely naked power,
I A review of the causes which led to this provision in the judicial
act, will corroborate these views. Courts were to be created co-extensive with the Union. Casualties might occur which would leave
the office vacant, and' the most serious consequences' might result
froni leaving the place unfilled until the President could be notified
of the fact, and make a new appointment. In the country from
which we have borrowed so many of our constitutional and legal
doctrines, the same practice extensively'prevailed. 'It is believed
it generally existed among the colonies. Wherever it did prevail,
the power of appointment was considered as a naked power, which
was exhausted by the act of itself; and then slumbered until another
vacancy awakened it again to life.
• As a general principle of the common law, in ill cases of appointments under powers, the appointment is not revocable unless
expressly made so at the creation of the power. When an appointment is made, the party takes, in contemplation of law, immediately
from him who vreated the power. An officer thus created is the
creature of the law which confers the power of appointment, and
holds as if his name had been specifically mentioned in the statute.
Shower, 523. ]er Gregory, J.
Such powers and such exercises of them, and such results, are
usual and familiar. The marshal or sheriff selects and summons
jurors, but when once they have entered upon the performahce of
their duties, he cannot discharge them. In case of an insufficiency
'of numbers, or the setting aside a verdict,:or their discharge without rendering a verdict, a. new exercise of the authority being required, the power revives.
This general principle has been for a long series of years adopted
in the English law as applicable to all concerned in the administration of justice; to the inferior and ministerial officers, as well as to
the judges. Originally, the king had the appointment of all, for the
Courts were emphatically his Courts. Per Holt, Shower, 528, 529.
The appointing power was. mbsequently vested, in the Courts themselves. Ibid. 130. 2 Inst. 425. But, as was distinctly asserted in
Harcourt vs. Fox, Shower, 532; 535, the person having the power to
make the appointment, having executed that power, hath done with
the business; he hath no more to do with the officer; the clerk of
the peace being in by that constitution which hath limited how the
clerk shall be estated in his office. Ibid. 532. In the case of the
Chief Justice granting offices inhis gift, all that he had to do was to
point out the person who should have the office. Ibid. 535. The

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

237

[Ex ,arte Duncan N. Hennen.]

same great judge conimends the policy of this law: "it seems the
public good was designed, for it was a great mischief to have the
office so easily vacated." Ibid. 534.
In the course of his learned opinion, Lord Holt lays considerable
stress upon other considerations which are equally applicable to the
case at bar. I1 says, "I am the more inclined to be of this opinion,
because I knew the temper and disposition of the parliament at the
time when this act was made; their design was that men should have
places, not to hold precariously or determinable at will or pleasure,
but to have a certain durable estate, that they might act in them
without fear of losing them." He also considered this expression
of the intentions of the legislature as a contemporaneous exposition
of the statute. It will be seen presently how stringent is the application of these principles to the case under consideration.
Second Hawkins, 100, b. 2, c. 10, s. 38, contains this general dictum
in relation to some of the executive officers of the Court: "It seems
clear, that the sheriff or steward having power to place a constable
in his office, has, by consequence, a power of removing him."
For
this, he cites Bulstrode, 174. A reference, however, to the case reported by Bulstrode, shows that the decislon was, that this power
of removal could only be a removal for cause. According tor the
principles of the same law, an officer thus removed without cause,
could be reinstated by the process of mandamus. Bulst. 174. 2
Hawk. 103. So in Massachusetts, it has been adjudged thata power
to appoint a minister at all times, does not carry with it the power to
remove. Avery Vs. Inhabitants of Tyringham, 3 Mass. Rep. 160.
Such were the principles of law, of general policy,and of individual
right, which prevailed when the judiciary act of 1789 was framed;
and a reference somewhat in detail to the proceedings of that Congress will demonstrate, it is believed, the proposition that neither the
judiciary committee who reported the bill, nor the Senate that pAssed
it, nor the House which concurred, dreamed that they were conferring upon the district judge the power to remove the clerk, at his
own mere capricious will.
The bill originated in the Senate. It was reported by the committee on the 12th of June, 1789, and the 22d of the same month
was assigned for the second reading. It was: taken up for consideration on that day, and was the subject for discussion during
several consecutive days. While this bill was under the consideration of the Senate, that for the organization of the department of
foreign affairs was under debate in the'House. That bill was
brought up to the Senate, and a similar motion to that which had
been discussed in the House, was made. The judiciary bill passed
the Senate, o, the 17th of July, before the other was finally acted
upon. On the 18th of July, the question on the President's power
of removal was carried by the casting vote of the vice-president.
The judiciary committee of the Senate consisted of Messrs. Ellsworth, Paterson, Maclay, Strong, Lee, Bassett, Few, Wingate, Carrol, and Izardff.'- In the vote upon the question of the executive

238

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.]

power of removal, they stood: for striking out, Few, Izard, Lee,
Maclay, and Wingate; against it, Basset, Carroll, Paterson, Strong.
It thus appears that of the nine members who reported the judicial
bill, f4te entertained the opinion that the President had not the power
of removing'the secretary of state from office.
With what show of reason can it be inferred, in direct opposition
to the opinions avowed by these gentlemen in that vote, that they

believed that they were conferring by implication upon the judges
of the District Court, the power of removing a clerk. With the
views they had taken of the Constitution, it is impossible to believe
that such a Construction of the law upon which they were employed,
ever suggested itself to them. Experienced lawyers as they were,
could they be supposed to innovate so deeply upon the well established principles of the common law; to change so essentially its
wise provisions; and that this result was to be accomplished by a
remote and questionable implication?
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania has decided that this power
of removal, as incident to that of appointment, has never in this
country been held to exist beyond the executive department; and
does not extend to officers concerned in the administration of justice.
5 Rawle, 203.
It must be apparent, then, that the Court is not called upon to
unsettle or disregard the constitutional doctrines adjudged by the
legislature in 1789. The counsel for the relator have no such
wish or design. Independently of the weight of authority 'which
sanctioned that decision, we are free to confess, that were the question now an open one, we should fully concur in the decision then
made. We cannot beliove that the government could exist a'twelvemonth under a different rule.
Unless, then, we can satisfy the Court that the decision then made
leaves this case wholly unaffected, we bow to that authority. But
in our judgment, the argument of Mr. Madison is conclusive; and
there is every reason to believe, as well from tradition as from the
report of the debate itself, that that -argument was mainly instrumental in bringing about the result. Mr. Madison did not rest his
argument principally upon the ground that the power to remove
was an incident of the power to appoint. He proceeded upon the
principle that the relation of principal 'and agent existed between
the .President and the secretary. That such a power was essential
to enable the former to perform his own constitutional duties. That
'he was responsible to the country for the acts of his agents. That
no other power existed which could guard against the mischiefs and
dangers that might threaten the nation, if one of these high functionaries should become faithless or incompetent.
That argument leaves this question untouched. The clerk is not
in any sense the agent of the Court. The doctrine of responsibility
does not exist. The clerk may be controlled by the judicial -power
of the Court. He may be adjudged, on familiar principles of the
common law, to forfeit his office, by breach of the condition annexed

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

239

[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.]

to it; by misfeasance or nonfeasance. 1 Hawk. 412. He may be
punished by process of attachment, for a contempt in not obeying
the lawful orders of the Court, even under the mitigated law, as it
exists since the act of March, 1831.

8 Laws U. S. 488.

The possession of this ample judicial contiol excludes the idea that
the judge by virtue of the power of appointment, a power ministerial
and not judicial, can remove the clerk at his own will and pleasure.
He can oust himi from office for good cause; there is therefore no
room for implying a power to remove him without cause. He may
eject an officer who is incompetent, who neglects to perform his
duties, or who abuses the trust reposed in him; this takes away the
necessity for vesting in him,by implication, apower of removal: 'Which
if exercised under any other circumstances, or in any other cases,
must involve, as in this case, a flagrant breach of public duty, and a
flagrant abuse of power. Powers are only implied from necessity.
If no cogent reason exists why that which is not in express terms
granted, should yet pass by implication, such a construction is not to
be favoured.
It has been shown that this authority is not conferred upon the
judge in any larger grant, or as a necessary means to perform his
own positive duties, as in the case of the President: that it does not
grow out of the relation of principal and O.gent, as in that case-and
that, without invoking the aid of this strained construction, the superintending power of the Court, acting within its appropriating sphere,
and in conformity with its ordinary rules, is ample for every lawful
or useful purpose : that such a construction is not in analogy to the
principles of our institutions ;-that it is at variance with the wise
and liberal principles of English law, and contrary to the avowed
doctrine of those who drafted the statute under which the power is
claimed. t ,on all these grounds, separately so strong, and in their
joint authority so conclusive, it is submitted that the first pofnt in
the argument is established-that as a ministerial power, growing
out of the authority to appoint, it does notbelong to the district judge.
2. The second point contended for on behalf of the relator is, that
admitting the power of removal to reside in the district judge, yet
the act of removal of Mr. Hennen was not a legal exercise of a legal
authority, but a palpable and gross abuse : that such abuse is per se
illegal and cannot operate to deprive the relator of his office, Or to
confer the rights of office -upon Mr. Winthrop.
In general, the motives which stimulate men to act, excepting so
far as they are apparent in the act itself, are inscrutable to human
ken. The motive is sometimes however worse than the mere act
itself would indicate, as in the celebrated case decided under the
Coventry act; in which one brother, indicted for an assault upon
another with intent to maim and disfigure, had the audacity to defend
himself upon the ground that his intention was to kill.
In the present case, the learned judge, with more frankness than
prudence, in the very act of dismissing the relator, bestows upon him
the highest eulogium, declares him methodical, prompt, skilful and

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Duncan N. Henneam]

uptight, in the discharge of his duties, and assigns as the motive of
his conduct the paramount claims of personal friendship. The question then is distinctly presented, whether, when such objects and
such rpotives are avowed, the act can be deemed a legal and constitutional exercise of power; or whether it be not a gross and flagrant
abuse which invalidates the act.
Such a proceeding as that presented by the record, is a clear violation, by the judge, of his oath of Qffice. He is required by law to
take an oath that he will "faithfully and impartially discharge and
fulfil all the duties incumbent upon him as district judge, according
to the best of his abilities and understanding," 2 Laws U. S. 59, sec.
8. The phraseology of this oath marks clearly the manner in which
he is to execute all the powers confided to him officially.
Here again we may advert with advantage to the debate in the
House of Representatives in 1789. Mr. Lawrence; 1 Gales and
Seaton's Debates .504,. in an early stage of the debate remarked:
"If the President abuses his trust, will he escape the popular censure ?
And would he not be liable to impeachment for displacing a worthy
and able man, who enjoyed the confidence of the people." Mr.
Madison, p. 517, observed : "The danger then consists merely in this,
that. the President can displace from office a man whose merits require that he should be continued in it. What will be the motive
which the President can feel for such abuse of his power, and the
restraints that operate to prevent it ? In the first place he will be
impeachable by the House, for such an act of mal-administration;
for I contend that the wanton removal of meritorious officers would
subject him to impeachment and removal from his own high trust."
Mr. Vining, p. 531, remarked that, "if the President removes a valuable officer, which seems to be the great danger the, gentleman
from South Carolina apprehends, it would be an act of tyranny which
the good sense of the nation would never forget." And Mr. Baldwin, p. 580, pronounces such an act, "an abuse of power."
Not one
gentletnan who participated in the debate dissented from these views.
We hold this to be the sound constitutional doctrine. It is a vital
principle of our institutions. To assert the contrary, is to confound
power with right, and involves the Absurdity of making every exercise of power a rightful and lawful exercise,
The President has the power to interpose his veto upon any act
of Congress: were he, in the exercise of this high function, to avow
his conviction that the law submitt.d to him was just and proper,
'demanded by the wants of the community and the voice of the nation,
and that no constitutional objection could be urged against it, but
that under the impression it might materially affect the interests of
individuals, towards whom he cherished feelings of affection, he had
recognised the paramount claims of private friendship, and vetoed
the bill: who could doubt that he had violated his high trust, grossly
abused the power reposed in him, and merited the severest punishment the violated laws of his country could inflict ?
Did a judge assert the same paramounf influence as furnishing

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

241

[LEx pdrte Duncan N. Hennen.]

him with a motive to award judgment against a party whose legal
rights he at the same time recognised; can a doubt exist that he
would meet with the appropriate recompense?.
This principle extends throughout the entire sphere of official duty;
it is applied by Courts in the administration of private justice. In
M'Queen vs. Farquhar, Lord Eldon,.observes, "it is truly said this
Court will not permit a party to execute a power for his own benefi&
In Lord Sandwich's. case, a father, having the power of appointment,
and thinking one of his children was in a consumption, appointed in
favour of that child; and the Court was of opinion that the purpose
was to take the chance of getting the money as administrator of that
child."
If such an act would invalidate the exercise of a power involving
the pecuniary interests of a citizen, must it not work the same result,
when an individual abuses a public trust confided to his hhnds from
considerations of the general good? Can there result any injury or
wrong- from carrying out, in every case, the pure principles of private
morality and fidelity in the discharge of a trust ?
This doctrine has long been engrafted into the English law. Lord
Coke in his first institute, (1 Thorn. Coke on Litt. 239, 240,) says:
"there be at this day more conditions in law -mnnexed to offices than
there were when Littleton wrote; for example, for pffices in any
way touching the administration of justice, or clerkship in any Court'
of record," &c. "For if any of these officers bargain or sell any of
their offices,,or any deputatidn of the same," &c., "he shall not only
forfeit his estate, but be adjudged a disabled person to have or enjoy
the same office," &c. "T heefore," he concludes the subject, "by
the law of England it is further provided, that no officer or minister
of the king shall be ordained or made for any gift or brokage, favour
or affection, nor that any which pursueth by him or any other, privily
or openly to be in any manner of office, shall be put in the same
office or any other; but that all such officers shall be made of the best
and most lawful men and sufficient: a law worthy to be written in
letters of gold, but moi'e worthy to be put in due, execution. For
certainly never shall justice be duly administered, but where the
officers and ministers of justice be of such quality, and come to their
offices in such manner as by this law is required."
The act then does not depend exclusively for its legality merely
upon the fact that it is within the power which the party possesses.
An abuse of a legal authority is illegal, an abuse of constitutional
power a high misdemeanour. In the opinion of some of the Inost
eminent men our country has produced, the very act which is the
subject of our present consideration constitutes an impeachable offence. ,That conduct which is impeachable, cannot be legal. An
illegal exercise of 'a power is a nullity, and void.
Nor does this doctrine rest merely upon these authorities, venerable
-and respectable as they are. Chancellor Kent, (1 Kent's Com. 288,
289,) recognises the doctrine that for an abuse of the executive trust,
the President is impeachable, and-he considers it as an abuse of his
VOL. XJJI.-X
31

i242

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.1

'authority to violate the Constitution or law of the land. Judge Story,
(.Com. on Const. sec. 788,) speaking of the President, says, ",if he
venture§ upon a system of favouritism he will not Escape censure,
and can scarcely avoid public detection and disgrace." Sec. 789. "It
should never be forgotten that in a republican government offices are
established and are to be filled, not to gratify private interests and
private attachments; not as a means of corrupt influence or individual
profit; but for purposes of the highest public good." In sec. 792,
we are told, that "it is the duty of the President," among other
things "to disregard the importunities of friends ; the hints or menaces of enemies; the bias of party, and the hope of popularity."
Sec. 794. The Courts of the Union possess the narrow prerogative
of appointing their own clerk, and reporter, without further patronage, No intimation is given of the power to remove at pleasure.
In contrast with this narrow prerogative, this distinguished judge
contrasts the. exorbitant power, grown up from a small "seminal
principle" of the postmaster general; of which he says, "the great
anomaly in the system is the enormous patronage of the postmaster
general, who is invested with the sole and exclusive authority t-) appoint and remove all deputy postmasters." Finally, in sec. 798, h(:
adopts to the fullest extent, the opinions of Madison and others a.,
pronounced in 1789; and declares, that "removals from office with
,a view to bestow the office upon a dependant or favourite is an impeachable offence."
Fortified in our positions by this array of authority, we have felt
no hesitation in asserting that the act of removal attempted to be
exercised in this case, is a clear abuse of power, if the authority
indeed exists; is a palpable violation of duty,and subjects the offending party to impeachment, as for a high misdemeanour. If such be
the character of the act, it is in' vain to contend that it can'be valid.
3: Is the remedy by mandamus the appropriate legal remedy?
In White's case, (6 Mod. 18,) an application was made for a mandamus, to restore the party to the place of clerk of the company of
butchers, and the case of an attorney of an inferior Court was cited,
in which the mandamus had been issued, but Holt, Chief Justice, said
that case differs. 1. Office of attorney concerns the public, for it is
for administration of justice. 2. He has no other remedy. The case
thus recognised bears a strong and complete analogy to that at bar.
The office of clerk nearly concerns the administration of justice, and
the party has no other remedy. If any writ of quo warranto would
lie in Louisiana, it must be brought in the 'same Court before the
same judge who has committed the wrong inthe original chse. An
assize is equally out of the question, and is not only obsolete in England, but utterly impracticable here. Mandamus was awarded to
.restore one to the office of steward of a Court. Leet, but from which
he had beek displaced for his affection to thd king. T. Ray. f8., On
motion for a mandamus to restore an attorney, the Court was at
first equally divided; T. Ray, 57; but if was Subsequently allowed;
ilid. 94. In Dighton's case, '. Ray. iS8; 1 Veilt 77; a mandamus

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

243

[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.]

was prayed to restore a town clerk, but refused: because by the
terms of the charter, the town possesses the absolute power of turning him out.L This, however, was thought so monstrous a grievance,
that the Court advised to have the patent repealed. In Dew vs.
'The Judges of the Sweetspring District Court, 3 Hen. and Munf. I;
mandamus was held, after full argument, to be the appropriate remedy to restore a clerk who had been tuperseded by an irregular
appointment. In 3 Devereaux the same point was solem-Ay Adjudged.
If the remedy be appropriate,this is the only tribunal by which
it
ean be awarded. By the provisions of the judicial act, the clerk of
the District Court becomes the clerk of the Circuit Court. The record shows that the associate judge of this Cotirt who presides in
the Louisiana Circuit Court, refused to recognise the validity of the
act of the district judge, or to receive the clerk whom he had attempted to appoint. In consequence of the disagreement of the two
judges, there is no clerk. No business is or has been transacted in
the Circuit Court; the, government and individual suitors are unable
to proceed in their causes; no case can be brought up to this tribunal,
and the whole appellate jurisdiction of this Court is suspended
during this extraordinary state of affairs. Unless this Court interpose, such a state of things must remain,; a mandamus is prayed
to both Courts, and we consider each as a necessary exercise of the
appellate power of this tribunal, and in accordance with the fomer
practice of this Court. Ex parte Burr, 9 Wheat. 529;. Ex parte
Crane, 5 Peters,- 190.
Mr. Gilpin opposed the rule to show cause.
This rule ought not to be granted:
1. Because'the. petitioner is not entitled to the office.
2. Because, if he is entitled to it, a mandamus commanding the
judges of the District and Circuit Courts of Louisiana to restore
him to it, is not the proper mode of ascertaining his right.
3. Because, if he is entitled to it, and if a mandamus is a proper
remedy; yet this Court, under the limitation of its powers by the
Cbnstitution and laws, has no authority to issue that writ in; such a
case and for such a purpose.
I. The office of clerk of a District Court of the United States', is
a public office created by law for a public benefit; its duties are
defined by law; and the mode in which the incumbent is to be appointed, is expressly designated by law. It does not depend on
usage or custom. The Constitution requires (art. 2. sect. 2.) the
mode of appointment to inferior offices to be designated by law.
By the third section of the act of the 24th September, 1789,
(1 Story's Laws, 54,) there is to be a District Court of the United
States in each district, the judge of which is to be called the District Judge. By the seventh section of the same law (1 Story's
Laws, 56,) the District Courts are to appoint clerks for their respective Courts; the clerk for each District Court is to be clerk of the

244

8UPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennefi.]

Circuit. Court.in the same district ; and the clerk is tb take oath and
give bond before he enters on hi ,office. 1y the eighth section of
the act of 26th M,1arch, 1804, (2 Story's Laws, 936,) d District Court
was established in the territory of Orleans, to consist of one jtdge,
' who shall appoint a clerk." 'Bythe third section of the act of 8th
April, 1812, (ZStory's Laws, 1225,) the state of -Lanisiana was
formed into a district, and a District Court established there, the
judge of which "shall appoint a clerk." By the act of 3d March,
1823, (3 'Story's Laws, 1920,) Louisiana was divided 'into an'
eastern and western district, with a District Court for each ; though
the same person was to be judge of both. By the act. of 3d March,
1837, (4 Story's Laws, -,) the eastern district 'of Louisiana is
macie part of the ninth circi it; and it is provided that "the Circuit
Court, and the judges thereof, and the District Court, and the judges
thereof, are to have like powers as in other circuits and districts."
In the year 1837, Judg Lawrence was duly appointed and commissioned as 'district judge for the eastern district of Louisiana. On
the 18th May, 1838, he did, as district judge, appoint John Winthrop
clerk of the District Court for that district, by a commission under
his hand. On the 19th M.Py, 1838, Mr. Winthrop took the oath
and gave the bond-required by law, and entered upon the duties
of the office.
Thus, according to all the provisions of law, Mr. Winthrop is
now clerk of the District Court; and under the seventh section of
the act of 24th September, 1789, is als, ipso facto, clerk of the Circuit Court in the same district.
On what ground, then, does the petitioner claim this office ? It
is this, that on 21st February, 1834, Judge Harper, at that time district judge, appointed the petitioner clerk of the Court. Now, as it
is admitted that no person but,a district judge can appoint a clerk
of the District Court, and as the- appointment made by the present
judge is asserted to be illegal; the conclusion must be that the
appointment of a clerk once made cannot be revoked or superseded by the Court making it. This is the. only ground on which
the petitioner can sustain his right to this office.
This position is denied, because the express words of the law
vest in the District Court the power of appointing a clerk at ony
time; because this appointment is similar in character to others
which are unquestionably superseded by new appointments; and
because every ministerial or executive office, is, ipso facto, terminated by a aew appointment legally made of a competent officer;
unless otherwise provided by express law.
1. By the words of the several acts of Congress, this power of
appointment is vested in the Court, and the judp, efor the time being.
There is no restriction or limitaiion to it. It is neither greater nor
less than other powers vested in the Court or the judge. He "has
power" to appoint a clerk, as he," has power" by the words of the
law to order books to be produt.Yed, to giant new trials, to punish
contempts, or to make rules and regulations. Cannot acts done by

JANUARY TERM, f830.

245

[Ex parte Duncan N. Henen.])

virtue of those powers be revoked or superseded by..a new exercise of the same power? That will not be denied. These powers
are discretionary; to be exercised by the Court and the judge, according to such discretion, at any time; and they may, therefofe,
be so exercised, even though theyshould operate to revoke. or supersede previous acts.' There is nothing which lifnits or restricts
the present judge, because a former one has acted under the same
power.
2. Nor is there any thing in the nature or charactqr of Ihis power
of appointing a clerk, as vested by law in the district judge, which
makes it different from the appointing p6wer vested in other per
sons; and in whose case, it is not denied that its exercise supersedes
a previous appointment. The acts of 1804, 1812, and 1823, which
authorize the district judge to appoint a clerk, also authorize the
President to appoint an attorney and a marshal. It will not be contended that the latter are irrevocable; yet there is no distinction
whatever in the grant of power. An appointment of an attorney
by a former President, does not take from the present executive the
power to appoint a new one: why then should the act of * former
judge restrict the actual incumbent? Either both are.perpetual, or
both may be superseded. In an act passed on-the 3d March, 1831,
(4 Story's Laws, -,) the district judge of Louisiana is "authorized
to appoint an interpreter to the District Court." It will hardly be
contended that such an appointment cannot be superseded by the
Court; yet the power given in that case is no broader than in regard to a clerk.
3. There is nothing in the act of Congress, conferring this
power of appointment, which in terms, forbids its termination
within a limited time: and it is a settled principle, arising out of
the Constitution and laws of the United States, that unless there
be such a prohibition, every ministerial or executive office is, ipso
facto, terminated by a new appointment legally made. The Constitution prescribes the several modes by which appointments to all
offices are to be made; these are by elections, by the President and
Senate, by the President, by the Courts of justice, and by the heaas
of departments. It also designates out of all officers whose appointment is thus provided for, but five classes whose terms shall be
of a certain duration, which cannot be lessened unless by the death,
voluntary resignation, or impeachment of the incumbents. These are
representatives in Congress, who shall hold their office for a term of
two years; the President and Vice-President for four; the senators for
six; and the Judges "during good behaviour." The irresistible inference from this is, that by designating certain officers of whose
terms it absolutely fixes the duration, it meant to lay down no such
rule in regard to any others.
An ambassador to a foreign government, or a secretary of one o
the' executive departments, holds his office under the same general
power of appointment, when vested in the President, as a clerk of
Court does when it is vested in the Court. The Constitution has not
x2

246

SUPREME COURT.

[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.]
made the term of one more nor less independent of the appointing
power than the other. It has annexed to the power of appointment the same rights in'one case as in the other. More properly
speaking, it annexes the same duties. The power of appointment
is a trust to be exercised for the public welfare; it is the duty of the
appointing power to select at any time the person best qualified to
fill the office ; he has no right to avoid its exercise, if he believes it
to be essential to the general good. - The fitness of the officer may
depend on other circumstances than his own merits, as is strikingly
the case with ambassadors or foreign diplomatic agents; with whom
it may often happen that at particular conjunctures, public expediency may require the selection of one man in preference to another,without contrasting their individual merits. The appointing
power is bound to .act upon these causes, so as justly to perform his
trust. If in so doing, he supersedes a previous appointment, or rexmves a previous incumbent, that is an unavoidable result; but it
would afford no excuse for the neglect of a high trust.
Nor does this view of the constitutional duty of the appointing
power go to pardon or excuse any impropriety in its exercise. On
the contrary, by imposing the duty of selecting the proper person
at every time, it places the performance of that duty under more
strict supervision. Wrongfully, or corruptly, or improperly to exercise it, becomes, in this light, an official misdemeanor. Unquestionably, a judge who should be governed by favouritism or cort
rupt motives in performing one btnch of his constitutional functions, would be equally amenable to the laws as if he were so in
discharging another. His responsibility is the same whether he exercises the power to appoint a~n officer, or the power to punish a contempt; to grant a new trial; or to do any other act which under the
laws he ".has power" to do. Misdemeanor in one case would
afford as good ground for impeachment as in the other.
If these positions be true, it then, follows that, under a fair construction of the Constitution, the appointing power, when not limited, is to perform its duties at the time and manner deemed best for
the public good; but strictly responsible to the highest tribunal for
art honest discharge of those duties ; and strictly responsible also, to
private individuals, for so using it, as not to interfere with their
legal rights.,
And such has been the uninterrupted practice under the Constitution for fifty years. Has it ever been doubted, that the President
may recall an ambassador when he chooses, or change the heads of
departments? Is it denied, that the heads of departments may remove or sutiersede the clerks in their respective offices? By what
reasoning, then, could a different practice be sustained in regard to
the Courts of law; when the C6nstitution confers in the same sentence, the same powers upon them as upon the President and the
heads of departments?
So geneirally has this principle been admittedand so uniform has
the practice been,'that out of the innumerable cases in which public

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

247

[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.]

officers have been superseded or removed by a new exercise of the
appointing power, very few have become subjects of judicial examination. Whenever they have been so, this exercise of the appointing power has been judicially recoghised. In the case of the
Commonwealth vs. Sutherland, 3 Serg. and Rawle, 148; and in that
of the Commonwealth vs. Bussier, 4 Serg. and Rawle, 451; the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania decided that the general pbwer
of appointment, vested in the governor, authorized him to remove
an incumbent wherever the time for the continuance of the office
was not fixed. In the case of Bowerbank vs. Morris, Wallace,
119, it is held, that such removal may be made either by express
notification, or simply by appointing another person to the same
office. The case of Avery vs. the inhabitants of, Tyringham,
3 Mass. 160, cited to sustain a different doctrine, arose out of the
long established usage in New England, which regards the relation
between the minister and parish in the light of a contract, to be
limited by express agreement, or if not, only to be dissolved for
some good cause, or by consent of both parties. Even at common
law, a custom for the appointing power to remove ad libitum, where
the term was not fixed, or the incumbent held at will, was always
held to be a good custom. Rex vs. Mayor of Coventry, 2 Salkeld,
130. Rex vs. Wardens of Thame, 1 Strange, 115. Rex vs. Mayor
of Cambridge, 2 Shower, 70.
If a full expression of the legislature of the Union, on this important part of the American Constitution, is to be regarded by
Courts of justice as an authority, we have that also deliberately given,
fully sustaining the right of the appointing power to remove, where
no express provision exists; and declaring that right to be incidental
to the power of appointment. The debate in the House of Representatives, on the bill "to establish the department of foreign
affairs," and the vote on 22d June, 1789, (Journal of Congress, vol. i.
p. 50;) have always been regarded as conclusive in regard to the
opinions of those who framed the Constitution.
The result then is, that Mr. Winthrop being duly appointed, the
petitioner is superseded and removed. H has, therefore, no legal
right to the office to which he asks to be restored.
II. But if he has a right to the office, a mandamus is not the.
proper mod6 of ascertaining it. This is not a case for a mandamus, according to the principles and usages of law.
1. A mandamus can only be issued to a person or inferior tribunal, which the Court issuing it has a right to control, in the particular
instance. It is a high prerogative writ. It is an order from a superior to an inferior tribunal, when the inferior neglects a duty which
the superior is bound to see performed. It is never granted against a
judge of the Court that issues it ; as would be the case here, were
this rule allowed against the judge of the Circuit Court of Louisiana.
It is never granted against a judge of the higher Courts of common
law. In the case of Audley vs. Joyce, Popham, 176, it is spoken
of as a flower of prerogative, vested in the King's Bench, to be

248

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen,]

used in controlling municipal corporations.

In Rex vs. Baker, 3

Burr. 1265. 1267, it is said, that it is to be exercised only when absolutely necessary; and then in virtue of a general supervising
power. In the Rioters' case, 1 Vernon, 175, and again in Lawlor
vs. Murray, 1 Sch. and Lefroy, 75. 79, the Court of Chancery declared they would not presume to issue it to the Chief Justice of the
King's Bench. In Bridgman vs. Holt. Show. Parl. Ca. 117, the
judgesof the King's Bench remonstrated against a mandatory process from the House of Lords, as trenching upon their rights; since
it was compelling the action of those who by the iaw of the land
had a right'to exercise their own judgment. In some instances it
has been issued by a higher Court of record to an inferior one,
directing it to perform some strictly ministerial act; but even these
instances are few in number: and its exercise in common lawcases
is found to be chiefly confined to municipal corporations, Courts of
sessions, and such tribunals. Brooks vs. Ewers, 1 Strange, 113.
Ex parte Amherst, T. Ray. 214. Ex parte Morgan, 2 Chitty, 250.
In Pennsylvania, the Supreme Court, which is one of general
appellate jurisdiction, has refused to say whether it will in any case
issue a mandamus to a Court of Common Pleas. Comnmonwealth
vs. Court of Com. Pleas, a Binney, 273. Commonwealth vs. Court
of Com. Pleas, I Serg. and Rawle, 195. Morris vs. Buckley, 8'
Serg. and Rawle, 11.
In New York, the Supreme Court has indeed assumed a general
supervisory power over other Courts, similar to that of the King's
Bench in England; but even they have seldom, if ever, exercised
this power of mandamus, except in cases of clear ministerial duty,
and chiefly against town offitcers, &c. Sikes vs. Ransom, 6 Johns.
Rep. 279.
Upon these principles, this is no case for a mandamus. There is
neither the high superiority in the one-tribunal, nor inferiority in
the other; nor the evident right of control in the particular case,
which is necessary to justify it. There is no precedent for it in the
judicial decisions of Courts in England, or any of the states; and,
as was said by the Court of King's Bench, in Rex vs. Newtastle, 3
Barn. and Adolph. 252, it ought to be refused, where there is no
precedent for the exercise .of such a power.
2. A mandamus can only be issued to a person, or inferior tribunal, when'the act ordered to be done is ministerial, not discretionary.
In Foot vs. Brown,, 1 Strange, 625, the Court of King's Bench
refused a mandamus to compel a corporation to proceed to an election, because it was discretionary with the corporation. In Giles's
case, 2 Strange,. 881, they said, that where justices of sessions had a
discretionary power, a mandamus would not be granted. In Rex vs.
Gray's Inn, 1 Douglas, 353, a mandamus to compel the benchers
to admit a barrister was refused. In Rex vs. Exeter, 2 East, 462, a
ma damnus to compel the archbishop to admit an advocate of the
Archer's Court was refused. In Rex vs. Gloster, 2 Barn. and Adolph.
163, where the bishop refused to confirm a deputy registrar, who

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

249

[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.]

then applied for a mandamus, the Court of King's Bench said,
"there was no mode of forcing a person, who has a discretionary
power, to exercise it;" and' they added, "Suppose the bishop
returned reasons which we thought insufficient, what course could
we take."
And the cases of Rex vs. Flockwood, 2 Chitty, 251 ; Ex
parte Morgan, 2 Chitty, 250, and Rex vs. Wilts, 2 Chitty, 257, all
show that the Court of King's Bench will never control inferior
Courts in matters of judgment.
The Supreme Court of New York, in Wilson vs., Albany, 12
Johns. Rep. 414, said that, "wherever a discretionary power was
vested in an officer, and he had exercised that discretion, they would
not interfere; because they could not control, and ought not to
coerce, that discretion."
In Gilbert's case, 3 Cowen, 59, the, same
Court refused a mandamus to require the Court of Common Pleas
to strike out certain conditions which it had thought proper to annex
to one of its orders. In ex parte Johnson, 3 Co wen, 371, the same
Court refused to compel the Court of Common Pleas to hear charges
against a justice of the peace.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in Commonwealth vs.
Common Pleas, 3 Binn. 273, said that, "they could not compel an
inferior Court to decide according to the dictates of any judgment
but its own. In Commonwealth vs. Cochran, 5 Binn. 103, they
said they could only direct an inferior Court to act according to the
best of its judgment. In Commonwealth vs. Count Commissioners, 5 Binn. 536, they refused to direct the commissioners to allow
an account. In Commonwealth vs. Clarkson, 1 Yeates, 48, they
refused to direct the commissioners of bankruptcy to. give the bankrupt a certificate, although they thought him entitled to it. In Commonwealth vs. Common Pleas, 1 Serg. and Rawle, 187, they refused
a mandamus to compel the Common Pleas to admit an attorney.
And in Austin's case, 5 Rawle, 03, where a Court of Common
Pleas had struck several attorneys from the rolls, it was necessary
to obtain an act of assembly to give the Supreme Court jurisdiction
over the case.
The Supreme Court of Virginia do not establish a different principle in Dew vs. The Sweetspring's Court, 3 Hen. and Mun. 1-,
cited by the opposite counsel; for there the appointment of the
clerk did not belong at till to the inferior Court. The appointment
was vested entirely in the superior Court; and all the inferior
Court had to do, was to take the security-a duty clearly ministerial.
In Louisiana there are eight District Courts, from which there is
an appeal to the'Supreme Court. The District Courts appoint theii
own clerks; and the Supreme Court-" has power" to issue all manw
dates necessary for the exercise of its jurisdiction over inferior tribunals. I Digest of Louis. Laws, 295. In the case of Winn vs. Scott,
2 Louis. Rep, 89, the Supreme Court said they could not issue a 'mandamus except to aid their appellate jurisdiction. In Louis. College
vs. State Treasurer, 2 Louis. Rep. 395, they refused'to direct a public
officer to do an act relative to which he was invested with discreVOL. XIII.
32

250

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.]

tionary power.

In State vs. Dunlap, 5 Martin, 271, they refused

to direct a district judge, by mandamus, to restore to office a clerk
of the District Court whom he had removed, though they disapproved of the removal.
The Supreme Court of the United States, in U. S. vs. Lawrence,,
3 Dall. 45, said they would not compel a district judge to decide
according to any judgment but his own. In Marbury vs. Madison,
1 Cranch, 171, they said that where an officer was to exercise executive discretion, any application to control his conduct would be
rejected without hesitation. In M'Cluney vs. Silliman, 6 Wheaton,
598, they refused to interfere with a register of a land office acting
within the limits of his office.
The principle,,therefore, is settled beyond question, that where
the inferior tribunal has a discretion, and is to exercise its judgment
in the act to be done, there a mandamus cannot be issued. In the
present case the duty is clearly discretionary: it is one requiring the
exercise of judgment: it is in no.sense ministerial: it is either judicial, if regarded as an act of the Court; or it is executive, if considered as the act of an officer, vested by the constitution and law
with the power of appointment.
3. A mandamus cannot be issued to restore f person to an office
which is not a permanent one-never to an office determinable at
pleasure. In Draper vs. Blaney, 1 Levinz. 291 ; Peppis's case,
Vent.'342 ; and Dighton's case, Vent. 82 ; a mandamus was refused
to restore a town clerk who had been removed-the corporation
being vested with the power to appoint, without any limitation as
to the tenure of the office.
4. A mandamus cannot be issued unless the petitioner has no
other legal remedy.
In Rex vs. Street, 8 Mod. 9a, the Court of King's Bench refused a
mandamus, to direct the old churchwardens to deliver up the parish
books to their successors; because the latter might try their right to
them at lkw on a feigned issue. In Rex vs. Chester, 1 Maule and
Sel. 103, the same Court said they would not grant a mandamus,
where another remedy was open to the parties. In Marbury vs.
Madison, 1 Cranch, 169, this Court said, that a party applying for
a mandamus must be without any legal remedy.
In this case the petitioner can try his right, either by an information in the nature of a quo warranto; or by an action for money had
and received ; or by assize.
I, the case of the People vs. New York, 3 Johns. Cases, 79, it is
held, that a mandamus is not to be granted to admit a person to
office, where another is in by colour of right. The proper remedy,
say the Court, is by an information in the nature of a quo warranto.
In Rex vs. Jothamn, 3 Term, Rep. 575, it was held, that a mandamus
was not to be granted even to restore to office a person previously
admitted; because he could try his right by an action for money had
and received. And the cases of Harcourt vs. Fox, 1 Shower, 516;
Smyth vs. Latham, 9 Brigham, 692; and Avery vs. Tyringham, 3

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

251

[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.]

Mass._Rep. 160, all show that an action of assumpsit for the fees or
salary of an office, is the proper mode of ascertaining the right of the
party claiming it.
The action of assize, though out of use, is in all respects consistent
with our general practice of introducing (somewhat simplified in
form) the direct modes of action established by the common law.
It allows to both parties a trial by jury; gives damages to the injured
party; and restores him to -the office if unjustly deprived of it. The
Supreme Court of New Jersey, in Farley vs. Craig, 3 Green, 218i
recognise it as the proper mode "to recover seisin of an incorporeal
hereditament, and damages for its deprivation." It is invariably
so recognised by the Courts of common law in England. In Webb's
case, 8 Coke, 47, it is held, that a man may have an assize of an,
office, ut de libero tenemento, at common law. In Vaux vs. Jefferen, 2 Dyer, 114, an assize lies to recover the office of philizer in
the
Court of Common Pleas. In Coveney's case, 2 Dyer, 209, the
prerogative
writ was refused, to restore the president of a college
to
his office, because he could have assize at common law. In Rex vs.
Westminster, Comb. 244, a mandamus to admit a 15ailiff was refused,
because he could have assize. In an anonymous case, 6 Mod. 18,
Holt said, that- a mandamus ought not to go where a party could
have assize; and in Rex vs. Baker, 3 Burr. 1268, the same point was
ruled. In Bridgman vs. Holt, Show. Par. Cases, 111, we have a
direct case in point, of an assize brought by a person claiming to be
lawfully clerk of the Court.
It is therefore submitted, that, whatever may be the legal right
of the petitioner to the office he claims, this is not a case in which
a mandamus would be granted according to the principles and
usages of law; because this Court has not such a control over the
inferior Court as to warrant it; because oth'e act complained of was
not ministerial but discretionary; because the office in question is
not a permanent one, to endure for a definite period; and because
the party complaining has other and more appropriate remedies if
he has been unjustly removed.
III. But if the case were one in which a Court, vested with unlimited power, would interfere by mandamus; still this Court, deriving
their authority from the express grant of the Constitution and the
laws founded on it, cannot issue it in such a case.
1: This Court has no power to issue a mandamus to restore a
clerk of the Circuit or District Court, by virtue of its original jurisdiction. That jurisdiction is limited by the Constitution to-cases affecting "ambassadors," "public ministers," and "consuls," and those
"wherein a state is party." This case is neither of these. It is true,
the 13th section bf the act of 24th September, 1789, 1 Story's Laws,
59, did give this Court power "to issue writs of mandamus in cases
warranted by the principles and usages of law ;" but that enactment was solemnly decided in Marbury vs. Madison, 1 Cranch,
176, and in Ex parte Crane, 5 Peters, 193, to be contrary to the
Constitution, as an exercise of original jurisdiction.

252

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parto Duncan N. Hennen.]

2. Nor can it be exercised by virtue of its appellate jurisdiction;
for the restoration of a clerk to office is in no sense an appellate
proceeding. It is held, in Marbury vs. Madison, 1 Cranch, 175,
that an appeal is a resort to this Court "to revise and correct the
proceedings of the Court below in a cause already instituted." In
Wishart vs. Dauchy 7 Cranch, 110, it is said there are two modes
of doing this-a writ of error in common law cases, to re-examine the decision in point of law; and an appeal in civil law
cases, to review the law and fact. In Davis vs. Braden, 10 Peters,
287, it was held, that in order to bring up a division of opinion between the judges of a Circuit Court before this Court, the point on
which they divided must have "arisen on the trial of the case
below." the judiciary act, 1 Story's Laws,' 60,. establishes the
same rule: it confines the appellate jurisdiction of this Court to
appeals and writs of error; and says, too, that these must be from
final decrees and judgments. In the present case, there is no cause
instituted of which the proceedings are to be revised and corrected ;
no decision on a point of law to be re-examined ; no law and fact to
be reviewed; no division of opinion on the trial of .a cause below;
no appeal or writ of error from a final decree or judgment. How
then can this case come within the appellate jurisdiction of the
Court ?
3. Nor is it in any respect necessary to the exercise of the appellate power of this Court, that the petitioner should-be restored to the
office of clerk. There is no writ of error or appeal waiting below
for the want of this officer. There is no allegation that the restoration of the petitioner is required for any such cause. There is a
clerk doing all the business. The mandamu:s is not ought for on
ihis ground; but avowedly for the purpose of trying, in this mode,
the. title to the office. This Court has, in numerous cases, decided
where a mandamus is or is not necessary to the execution of its ap'nellate powers.; in no one of them has it been held to be necessary
in such a case as this. Out of the seventeen applications made to
,is
h Court since its establishment, to issue writs of mandamus, but
four have been granted. The decision of the Court in these four
cases of United States vs. Olmstead, 5 Cranch, 115. Livingston vs.
Dotgenois, 7 Cranch, 577. Ex parte Bradstreet, 7 Peters, 634;
and New York Insurance Company vs. Wilson, 8 Peters, 291 i after
elaborate argument, was, that the Supreme Court would issue a mandamus to a districtJudge, directing him-l. To execute a decree
of his Court.in an admiralty case, where execution had'been delayed
on account of thp extraneous interposition of a state law.. 2. To
proceed to a final judgment, and not stay proceedings indefinitely.
3. To reinstate a suit dismissed on motion, after issue joined; so that
the parties might have a final judgment. 4. To sign a judgment
on the record where it had been previously recovered and recovered
and entered according to the law. The principle established by
these decisions is, that there must be a suit pending in a Court below, and that the act which the inferior Court is required to perform

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

253

[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennren]

must be ministerial in its character, and necessary to the final termination of the cause in that tribunal.
The thirteen cases in which this Court refused applications for
mandamus, are, United States vs. Lawrence, 3 Dal. 42. Marbury
vs. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137. M'Cluney vs. Silliman, 2 Wheat. 3)69.
Ex parte Burr, 9 Wheat. 529. Bank of Columbia vs. Sweney,
1 Peters, 567.- 'Ex parte Crane, 5 Peters, 190. Ex parte Roberts,
6 Peters, 216. Ex parte Davenport, 6 Peters, 661. Ex parte Bradstreet., 8 Peters, 588. New York Insurance Company vs. Adams,
9 Peters, 573. Postmaster General vs. Trigg, 11 Peters, 173. Ex
parte Story, 12 Peters, 339. Poultney vs. Lafayette, 12 Peters, 472.
The principles established in these cases in regard to this writ, are
these: the Supreme Court will never compel an inferior Court, in
which a suit is pending, to do any act relating either to the practice of the Court, or the merits of the case, in regard to which act
the inferior Court is vested with a judicial discretion; even if they
are of opinion that the Court erred in the exercise of their discretion. Nor will the Supreme Court interfere with an inferior Court
in the suspension of its attorneys. Nor will it control an executive
officer in the discharge of an executive function, unconnected with
a pending suit; even if they are of opinion that it was improperly
exercised.
If the rules thus laid down by the solemn decisions of fifty years,
both for allowing and refusing writs of mandamus by this Court, be
applied to the present case; it will be evident that the application of
the petitioner cannot be granted. It has solemnly decided when
this process is, and when it is not necessary to aid the appellate
jurisdiction of the Court: and these decisions absolutely exclude a
case like that now presented.
Whatever, therefore, may be the legal rights of the petitioner, or
however proner a proceeding by mandamus might be, in a Court
less limited in its duties and constitutional functions, it is submitted
that There is nothing in the laws of the land, or in the established
practice of the Supreme Court of the United States, which will
warrant it in compelling a circuit or district judge, by mandatory
process, to appoint a particular individual as clerk of his Court, or
to restore him to that office after be has been superseded or removed.
Mr. Jones, also against the motion, presented the case to the
Court on the abstract, legal power of the district judge to remove
from office a clerk who was the incumbent, and to appoint another
person.
The right to remove is an incident to the power of appointment.
It is essential to the exercise of the power to appoint; and the
power which is given by the law cannot exist without this incident.
If the common law has any bearing on this question, it is very
remote.
The Constitution of the United States, and the laws
made in conformity with the provisions of the Constitution, are esVOL. XIII.Y

254

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.]

sentially different from the common law, as to appointments to
offices, and as to the tenure by which they are held. 2 Black. Commentaries, 36, 37. The law of the tenure of office in England, is
regulated, not-by any principles of ethics, or express provision, but
by immemorial usage. Office is there an incorporeal hereditament,
as a right of way. There is, under the common law, an estate in
an office.
But in the United States this is not so. There is in this country
no estate in any office. No property in an office. Offices are held
for the benefit of the community.in which their functions are exercised. As to the tenure and nature of office in England: cited Coke
Litt. 378a. 4 Institute, 117. Coke.Litt. 2 3 3 b. 2 Institute, 388.
The position in England is, that unless the statute which creates
the office limits its tenure, at the time of the creation ; it is an office
for life, as at the common law. But here no such principles prevail.
The common law does not apply to offices, which are all created by
the Constitution, or by express statute.
It is contended by the counsel for the relator, that the power of
appointment in the United States is a naked power, as at common
law; and that the power is at an end when it has been executed.
This would determine the power after it had been used; and it
could not afterwards be regained. Is it to be held, in the United
States, that the power to appoint to office gives the appointing
power a right to appoint for life only? The English doctrine on
this subject has nothing to do with the laws of the United States,
where such powers are given only by special enactments.
The case cited from 3 Massachusetts Reports, has no application
to the case before the Court. That case decided no more than that
the local laws of the colony of Massachusetts made a settled minister of a congregation a minister for life ; and the new constitution
of question
the State of Massachusetts had not abrogated that law.
The
whether, when a new office is created by an act
of
parliament, or a statute of the United States, it is an office for life or
not, has never been presented for, decision. In this case the question
is presented in its naked simplicity. This question has, recently,
been considered in the Court of Appeals of Virginia. The question
there was on the removal of a district attorney, who is appointed by
the Court. The officer was removed without fault, and the question of the right of removal came before the Court of Appeals. It
was decided that the power was complete.
The goveriment of the United States was brought into existence
in all its proportions and organization, without any of the relics of
the barbarism of the darker ages attached to it. It has many beauties, and some defects. It is a new being starting into life, in all its
regulations and arrangements. It is notlike a statute,which is in abrogation of the common law; but it is independent in itself. It is an
experiment, to be examined by itself. The Constitution provided for
the terms of all offices created by it. This has beenrinterpreted, so
that the power to appoint has, as incident and inherent in it the

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

255

[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.]

power to remove, when thought proper; unless a special provision
has been made to the contrary.
The question is, what are the incidents to the power of appointment? If the power to appoint is given, it must be a continuing
and constantly existing power; and to be exercised at the will of the
person holding it. The term power to appoint, comprehends 'this;
and makes it a continuing power always in vigour.
This has been the course of the government of the United States;
and it has always been considered that an-officer is displaced when
a successor to the office is appointed. This places in full existence
and in a simple form, the power to appoint ; non obstante, that the
office is full at the time of the exercise of the power.
It is contended that the appointment of a clerk of the District
Court is not a judicial act, but is like the power which, under the
Constitution, is given to the President of the United States, and is
identical in its character with that power. The great object and purpose of the counsel for the relator has been to show that the executive of the United States has the power to appoint by the Constitution ; and that the appointment in this case is not given by the Constitution. Cited as to the nature of the power of appointment given
by the Constitution to the President, 5 Marshall's Life of Wmshington, 196.
The discussions in the legislative bodies, soon after the establishment of the government of the United States, did not draw
into question the power of removal, as incident to the power of appointment. The only question then examined was, whether, as the
Senate was a part of the appointing power, the Senate should not
concur as to removals.
The Constitution of the United States declares that the executive
power is in the President; and the limitation of appointments is a
diminution of that power, and it is to be strictly construed. The
President is charged with the execution of the laws; and the grant
of executive power gives 'to the officer all the rights in relation to
the exediftion of the laws that kings or potentates have. This is
derived from the nature of the duties enjoined on the office, and the
obligation to perform them.
'It is now settled and established, and the position is not to be disturbed, that the President of the United States has the power to xemove or displace incumbents, -as he has the power to appoint to
office. This, it is now fully settled, is a portion of the executive
power under the Constitution; and the right to use and exercise it,
in all cases where the tenure of office is not otherwise declared by
the Constitution and laws, is fully and unquestionably recognised.
It is the universal practice to use the power to appoint,.according to
the views and wishes of the person who makes the appointment.
The motives to appoint do not enter into the question of the validity of the appointment.
Suppose a judge to give a decision expressly on the face of it erroneous, as from favour to one'of the parties,.and stating this as the

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.]

inducement to his judgment, and which, according to his opinion,
was against the law; would the decision be reversed in this Court,
because of these reasons of the judge, if the decision was right?
If it whs according to the law, this Court would affirm the judgment. So the motives for the removal of the relator cannot be
inquired into by this Court. The Court can only look at the question
of the power of the judge to remove, without going into a scrutiny
of his motives and conduct.
If there has been corruption in an appointment, the appointment
is not thereby vacated. Suppose a judge convicted of fraud in the
act of appointment, this does not affect its validity. If the President of the United States should be impeached, would his acts as
President be avoided by his conviction ?
Mr. Justice THOMPSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an application for a rule upon the Honourable Philip K.
Lawrence, Jidge of the District Court of' the United States for the
eastern district of Louisiana, to show cause why a mandamus should
not be issued against him, requiring him to show cause why he
should not restore Duncan N. Hennen to the office of clerk of the
said District Court.
The'petition sets forth, that the petitioner, Duncan N. Hennen, on
the 21st day of February, in the year 1834, was duly appointed
clerk of the said Court, by the Honourable Samuel H. Harper,
judge of the said Court. That a commission was duly issued, under
the hand and seal of the judge. That he accepted the appointment,
and gave the bond with sureties required by law, and thereupon
entered upon the duties of the office, and continued to discharge the
same, methodically, skilfully, and uprightly, and to the satisfaction of
the District Court. That by virtue of said appointment, and of the
provisions of the statute in such case made and provided, he was
from the period of the organization of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the said district of Louisiana, in like manner the
clerk of the said Circuit Court; and performed all the duties of said
office. That he continued to perform the said duties, and receive
the emoluments, and in all respects to hold and occupy said offices,
until on or about the 18th day of May, in the year 1838, when he
received a communication from the Honourable Philip K. Lawrence,
then and now the judge of the said District Court of the United
States, for the said eastern district of Louisiana, apprizing hin of
his removal from the said office of clerk, and the appointment of
John Winthrop in his place, And in this communication he states,
unreservedly, that the business of the office for the last two years
had been conducted promptly, skilfully, and uprightly, and that, in
appointing Mr. Winthrop to succeed him, he had been actuated
purely by a sense of duty and feelings of kindness towards one
whom he had long known, and between whom and himself the
closest friendship had ever subsisted. And that, as his capacity to
fill the office cannot be questioned, he felt that he was not exercising

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

257

[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.]

any unjust preference, in bestowing on him the appointment. The
petition further states, that Judge Lawrence did, on or about the
!8th day of. May, in the year 1838, execute and deliver to the said
John Winthrop a commission or appointment, as clerk of the said
District Court for the eastern district of Louisiana; and that he does

to a certain extent execute the duties appertaining to the said office,
and is recognised by the said judge as the only legal clerk of the said
District Court.
The petition further states, that on or about the 21st day of May,
in the year 1838, the Circuit Court of the United, States, for the
eastern district of Louisiana, met according to law; when the Hondurable John M'Kinley, one of the associate Justices of the Supreme
Court of the United States, and the said Judge Lawrence, appeared
as judges of the said Circuit Court, and that the petitioner and John
Winthrop, severally presented themselves, each claiming to be right.
fully and lawfully the clerk of the said Circuit Court; that the judges
differed in opinion upon the said question of right, and. being unable.
to concur in opinion, neither of said parties was admitted to act as
clerks or recognised by the Court as being rightful clerk; and no
business was or could be transacted, and the Court adjourned.
The petitioner claims that he was legally and in due form appointed clerk of said District Court; and by virtue of said appointment
became lawfully the clerk of said Circuit Court. And that he has,
never resigned the said'offices, or been legally removed from the
same, or either of them. But that he is illegally kept out of the said
office of clerk of the said District Court, by the illegal acts and con.duct of the said Philip K. Lawrence, judge as aforesaid, and the said
John Winthrop, claiming to hold the said office under an appointment from the said Judge Lawrence; which he is advised and believes is illegal and void., And prays that the Court will award -a
writ of mandamus, directed to the said judge of the District Court,
commanding him forthwith to restore the petitioner to the office of
clerk of the said District Court of the United States for the eastern
district -ofLouisiana.
The district judge has appeared by counsel to oppose this motion,
alld the facts set out in the petition have not been denied. And the
question presented to the Court is, whether the petitioner has shown
enough to entitle him to a rule to, show cause why a mandamus,
,should not issue. If he has been legally removed from the office of
clerk, there are no grounds upon which the present motion can be
sustained.
By the Constitution of the United States, art. 2, s. 2, it is provided
that the President shall nominate, and by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, shall appoint certain officers therein designated,
and all other officers of the United States, whose appointments are
not herein otherwise pr6vided for, and which shall be established by
law; but the Congress may by law vest the appointment of such
inferior officers, as they shall think proper, in the President alone, in
the' Courts of law, or in the heads of departments. The appointing
y,2

28

SOPREME COURT,
[Ek pano Duncan N. Hennen.]

power here designated, in the latter part of the section was no doubt
intended to be exercised by the department of the government to
which the officer to be appointed most appropriately b lozged. The
appointment of clerks of Courts properly beloigs to the Courts of
iaw; and that a clerk is one of the inferior officers contemplated by
this provision in the Constitution cannot be questioned, Congress,
in the exercise of the power here giver., by the act of the 24th of
September, 1789, establishing the judibial Courts of the United
States,
Story's Laws U.-S.56, s. 7, declare that the Supreme Court,
and the 1District
Courts shall have power to appoint clerks of their
respective Courts; and that the clerk for each District Court shall be
clerk also of the Circuit Court in such di- ict.
When this law was passed, Louisiana formed no part of the UThited
States, and of course had no District Court, to which the act of 1789
would apply. But by the act of the 26th of March, 1804, 2 Story's
Laws, 933, providing for the temporary government of. Louisiana,
a District Court is established; and. the law directs that the judge
thereof shall appoint a clerk for the said district, who shall keep the
records of -the Court, and receive the fees provided by law for his
services. And a like provision-is made by the act of April 8, 1812,
2 Story, 1225, passed. for the admission of Louisiana into the Union.
And by the act of the 3d March, 1837, 4 Story, 2538, extending the
Circuit Court system, and embracing Louisiana in the ninth circuit,
it is declared, that the said Circuit Court shall be, governed by the
same laws and regulations as apply to the other Circuit Courts of
the United States; and the clerks of the said Courts respectively, shall
perform the same duties, and be entitled to receive the same fees and
emoluments, which are by law established fcii the clerks of the other
Circuit Courts of the United States. The clerk of the district Court,
therefore, in Louisiana, became the clerk of the Circuit Court; standing
upon the same footing in all respects as the clerks of the other 'District Courts. His rights or his duties were in no respect changed by
the establishment of a Circuit Court in that state ; except, that the
duties of a clerk of that Court were superadded to those of a clerk
of the District Court. And this was by express proviion of law; and
required no act on the part of the Circuit Court to constitute him
clerk of that Court.
Such then being the situation in which the petitioner stood prior to
the 21st of May, 1838, the question arises whether the district judge
had the power to remove him, and appoint another clerk in his place.
The Constitution is silent with respect to the power of removal
from office, where the tenure is not fixed. It provides, that the
judges, both of the supreme and inferior Courts, shall hold their
offices during good behaviour. But no tenure is fixed for the office
of clerks. Congress has by law limited the ten are of certain officers
to the term of four years, 3 Story, 1790; but expressly providing
that the officers shall, within that term, be removable at pleasure;
which, of course, is without requiring any cause for such removal.
The clerks of Courts are not included within this law, and there is

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

259

[Ex patte Duncn N. Heninen.]

no express limitation in the Constitution, or laws of Congress, upon
the tenure of the office.
All offices, the ienure ofwhich is not fixed by the Constitution or
limited by -law, must be held either during good behoviour, or (which
is the same thing in contemplation of law) during the life of the incumbent; or must be held at the will and discretion of some department of the govenment, and subject to removal at pleasure.
It cannot, for a, moment, be admitted, that it was the intention of
the Constitution, that those offices which. are denominated inferior
offices should be held during life. And if removable at pleasure, by
whom is such removal to be made. In the absence of all constitutional provision, or statutory regulation, it would seem to be a sound
and necessary rule, to consider the power of removal as incident to
the power of appointment. This power of removal from office was
a subject much disputed, and upon which a great diversity.of opinion was entertained in the early history of this government. This
related, however, to the power of the President to remove officers
appointed with the concurrence of the Senate : and the greatquestion
was, whether the removal was to be by the President alone, or with
the concurrence of the Senate, both constituting the appointing power.
No one denied the power of the President and Senate,jointly, to remove, where tyhe tenure of the office was not fixed by the Constitution ; which was a full recognition of the principle that the power of
removal was incident to the power of appointment. But it was very
early adopted, as the practical construction of the Constitution, that
this power was vested in the President alone. And such would appear to have been the legislative construction of the Constitution.
For in the organization of the three great departments of state, war,
and treasury, in the year 17S9, provision is made for the appointment of a subordinate officer by the heid of the department, who
should have the charge and custody of the records, books, and papers
appertaining to the office, when the head of the department should
be removed from the office of the President of the United States. 1
Story, 5. 31. 47. When the navy department was established in the
year 1798, 1 Story, 498, provision is made for the charge and custody of the books, records, and documents of the department, in case
of vacancy in the office of secretary, by removal or otherwise. It is
not here said, by removal by the President, as is done with respect
to the heads of the other departments; and yet there can be no
doubt that he holds his office by the same tenure as the other secretaries, and is removable by the President. The change of phraseology, arose, probably, from its having become the settled and well
understood construction of the Constitution, that the power of removal was Vested in the President alone, in such cases; although
the appointment of the. officer was by ihe President and Senate.
In all these departmeuts power is given to the secretary, to appoint all necessary clerks; 1 Story, 48; and although no power to remove is expressly. given, yet there can be no doubt, that these clerks
hold their office at th will and discretion 'of the head of the depart-

260

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.]

ment.

It would be a most extraordinary construction of the law,

that all these offices were to be held during life, which must inevitably follow, unless the incumbent was removable at the discretion
of the head of the department: the President has certainly no power
to remove. These clerks fall under that class of inferior officers, the
appointment of which the Constitution authorizes Congress to vest in
the head of the department. The same rule, as to the power of removal, must be applied to offices where the appointment is vested in
the President alone. The nature of the power, and the control over
the officer appointed, does not at all depend on the source from which
it emanates. The execution of the power depends upon the authority of law, and not upon the agent who is to administer it. And
lhe Constitution has authorized Congress, in certain cases, to vest this
power in the President alone in the Courts of law, or in the heads
of-departments; and all inferior officers appointed under each, by
authority of law, must hold their office at the discretion of the appointing power. Such is the settled usage and practical construction
of the Constitution and laws, under which these offices are held.
The tenure of ancient common law offices, and the rules and principles by which they are governed, have no application to this case.
The tenure in those cases depends, in a great measure, upon ancient
usage. But with us, there is no ancient usage which can apply to
and govern the tenure of offices created by our Constitution and
laws. They are of recent origin, and must depend entirely upon a
just construction of our Constitution and laws. And the like doctrine is held in the English Courts, where the office is not an ancient
comifion law office, but of modern origin, under some act of parliament. In such a case, the tenure of the offiee is determined by the
meaning and intention of the statute. The case of Smyth vs. Latham,
9 Bing. 672, was governed by this rule. The office in question was
that-of payinaster, appointed under an act of parliament; and the
Court said: -Thisis not an ancient common law office, the tenure of
which is to be governed by ancient usage ; and the question is no
more than an inquiry into the meaning and intention of the statute
itself: and that-by the legal construction of the act of parliament, the
tenure of the office was during pleasure; and that the new appointment was of itself a revocation of the first.
And the same rule has governed the decisions of the State Courts
in this country, whenever the, power of appointment and tenare of
Qffice has been drawn into discussion. The questions ha, e been
governed by the construction given to the constitution and laws of
the state where they arose.
The case of Avery vs-. The'Inhabitants of Tyringham, 3 Mass.
177, falls within this class of cases. The Chief Justice there says,
it is a general rule, that an office is held at the will of either party;
unless a different tenure is expressed in the appointment, or is 'Implied by the nature of the office, or results from ancient 1sage. The
office held by the petitioner clearly falls withiin neithier of these
exceptions, and of course comes within the general rule, tnd is held

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

261

[Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen.]

at the will of either party.

The petitioner would doubtless claim

the right to resign the clerkship if he chose so to do. And the
Court had a right to put an end to it, at its election.
The same principle governed thq Supreme Court of Pennsylvania,
in the ease of Leghman vs. Sutherland, 3 Serg. and Rawle,-145.
The qfuestion there turned upon the construction of the Constitution
and law of Pennsylvania. By the Constitution of '1790, it is provided that the governor shall appoint all officers, whose office is
established by the Constitution, or shal be established by. law; and
whose appointments are not otherwise provided for. And the
Court said, " The Constitution. is silent as to the removal of officers.
Yet it has been generally supposed1 that the power of removal rested
with the governor, except in those- cases where-the tenure was
during good behaviour :" clearly rocognising the principle, that
the power of removal was incident to the power of appointment, in
the absence of all constitutional or legislative provision on the subject. The case of Hoke vs. Henderson, 4 Devereux, 1, decided in
the Supreme Court of North Carolina, is not at all in conflict with
the doctrine contained in the cases referred to. That case, like tne
others, turned upon the Constitution and laws of North Carolina;
and by the express terms of the law, the tenure of the office was
during good behaviour; and was, of course, governed by very different considerations from those which apply to the case now before
the Court.
The law giving the District Courts the power of appointing their
own Clerks, does not prescribe any form in which this shall be done.
The petitioner alleges that he has heard and believes that Judge
Lawrence did, on the 18th day of May, 1838, execute and deliver to
John Winthrop, a commission or appointment as clerk of the District
Court for the eastern district of Louisiana, and that he entered upon
the duties of the office, and was recognised by. the judge as the only
legal clerk of the District Court. And in addition to this, notice
was given by the judge to the petitioner, of his removal from the
office of clerk, and the appointment of Winthrop in his place; all'
which was amply sufficient, if the office was held at the discretion
of the Court. The power vested in the Court was a continuing
power; and the mere appointment of a successor would, per se, be
a removal of the prior incumbent, so far at least as his rights were
concerned. How far the rights of third persons may be affected is
unnecessary now to consider. There could not be two clerks at the
same time. The offices would be inconsistent with each other, and
could not stand together. If the power to appoint a clerk was
vested exclusively in the District Court, and the office was held
at the discretion of the Court, as we think it was; then this Court
can have no control over the appointment or removal, or entertain
any inquiry into the grounds of removal. If the judge is chargeable
with any abuse of his power, this is not the tribunal to which he is
amenable: and as we have no right to judge upon this matter, or

262

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Duncan N. Henn~n.]

power to afford redress if any is required, we abstain from expressing any opinion upon that part of the case.
Th,, motion is accordingly denied.

On consideration of this motion, and of the arguments of counsel
thereupon, had, as well in support of as against the, motion, it is
now here considered, ordered, and adjudged, by this Court, that the
said motion be, and the same is, hereby overruled; and that the
said mandamus or rule prayed for be, and the same is, hereby
denied.

