SUPREME COURT.

JOHN WALKER, APPELLANT, VS. GEORGE PARKER AND OTHERS,
APPELLEES.

The testator devised to'his wife one-third of his personal estate forever, for her own proper
use and benefit, and also one-third of all his real estate, during her lifetim6, and in the

event of her death, all the right in real property bequeathed to her should be, and by the
will is, declared to be vested in his infant son. The testator then proceeded to devise
sundry lots and houses to his mother, his sisters, his brothers, separately, and his son.
These are given to their respective devisees "as their property forever." He then devised the balance of his real estate to his infant son, "forever," believed to be certain

lots specified in the will. Held, that the wife took under the will, one-third of all the
real estate of the testator, during her life, and that his son took a fee simple in one-third
of the property given to the brothers and sisters of the testator, subject to the ddvise to

his mother, and a fee simple in all the real estate, specifically devised to him, subject to
the devise of one-third to his mother, during her life.
The devisee of Gne of the lots devised to him forever, which the Court held was subject to
-the right to one-third in the wife of the devisor, and one-third after her decease, in fee to
the sonof the devisor, cannot, by a proceeding in Chancery, compel a sale of the property
devised, or a partition; without the Court are satisfied it would be for the benefit of the
infant son to make sucs sale, and without the consent of all the other parties interested
in the property.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
county of Washington, in the District of Columbia.
The appellant, John Walker, filed, a bill in the Circuit Court of
the county of Washington, stating that James Walker, late of Washington, by his last Will and testament, had bequeathed to him and to
his then wife, Ann Sophia Walker, since intermarried with George
Parker, one-third of his real estate, during her life, and in the event
of her death, all the right bequeathed to her is declared to be vested
in his infant son, James Walker. James Walker, the son, claims
the right in fee simple, after her death, of the portion of the estate
devised by the testator to his Wife. The testator in a subsequent
part of his will, bequeathed other parts of his estate in fee to other'
personsi and among them to his said infant son, James Walker.
The bill then states the particular estates devised by the will to the
complainant himself, and the others of the family of the testatpr;
and alleges the same to have been devised to them in fee simple,
free and clear of any right of the widow of the testatbr, or of
his son.
Ann Sophia Parker, who was the wife of the testator, James
Walker, and her present husband, George Parker, the bill states,
insist upon .the right of the said Ann to one-third of the lots and
houses bequeathed by the will; and refuse to permit the complainant
to dispose of the same, and claim a right to exact one-third of the
rents thereof, and to have a right to rent the same as they please.
The bill proceeds to state, that the complainant, is advised that
Ann Sophia Parker and her husband, have no right in the lots held
by him under the, will of Jamres Walker, nor has any other perswi
a right to them to his prejudice; but should the .Court think differ-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

167

(John Walker m. GeDrge Parker et al.]

ently, the bill states, that the property cannot be divided without
great injury; and that the complainant is desirous to sell.the lots aiad
property devised to him, and those under whom he holds. The
complainant states, that he is desirous to have the exclusive control
of his own property; and that if the said Ann Sophia has a right
of dower in the property, he asks that the same be assigned to her;
and that the rights of the minor be assigned: and if this cannot be
done, that the property be sold, and out of the proceeds of the sale,
an equivalent be allowed for their interest therein.
The bill asks, that Ann Sophia Parker, and the infant son of the
testator, and his testamentary guardian, be enjoined from setting up
aiiy claim to the property held by him, or to which he is entitled,
under the will of James Walker; and that he may be quieted in
his possession and enjoyment of the premises. The bill also asks
for further and general relief.
The will of James Walker was made on the 17th day of September, 1832, and admitted to probate on the 25th day of September, in the same year.
The material parts of the will are the following:
"I bequeath and give to my dearly beloved wife, Ann Sophia
Walker, one-third of the whole of my personal estate, forever, for
her own proper use and benefit; and also one-third of all my real
estate, during her lifetime; and in the event of her death, all the
right in -real property hereby bequeathed to her shall be, and is
hereby declared to be vested in my dear and infant son, James
Walker.
"I bequeath and give to my dearly beloved brother, John Walker,
forever, all of lot numbered six, in square one hundred and six,
with the two-story brick house, back building, and all appurtenances
thereto belonging.
"I bequeath and give to my dearly belQved brother, Lewis
Walker, forever, lots twenty-three, twenty-four, and twenty-five, in
square numbered one, hundred and six, together with a two-story
brick building, with a basement: story, back building, and all appurtenances thereto belonging, and erected on one or more of said
lots.
"I bequeath and give to my dearly beloved brother, Henry
Walker, forever, lot numbered six, in square four hundred and
three, together with the improvements thereon erected, and appurtenances thereto belonging.
"I bequeath and give to my dearly beloved sister, -Margaret
Peck, lots numbered twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-six, and
twenty-seven, in square numbered one hzundred and six, together
with a two-story frame house erected on lot number twenty-seven,
as her property forever.
"I bequeath and give to my dearly beloved sister, Louisa Ballard, forever, lot numbered four, in square numbered four hundred
and thirty-two, together with the three-story brick house erected
thereon, and all the appurtenances thereto belonging.

168

SUPREME COURT.

[John Walker vs. George Parker et al.1
"I bequeath and give to my dearly beloved -ister, Sarah M'Callion, part of lot numbered eight, in square numbered seventy-four,
together with the frame house erected thereon, as her property
forever.
"I bequeath and give to my dear and infant son, James Walker,
lot numbered twenty-two, in square numbered three hundred and
fifty-two, together with two two-story brick houses, and other buildings thereto belonging, as his property forever.. I also bequeath
and give to my infant son, James Walker, forever, the balance of
Iny real estate, believed to be and to consist in lots numbered six,
eight, and nine- with a house, part brick and part frame, erected on
one of said lots, in square one hundred and sixteen; lots thirtyone, thirty-two, and thirty-three, in square numbered one hundred
and forty, and a slaughter-house erected on one of said lots; lots
numbered eight and eleven, insquare numbered two hundred and
-fifty; and lot numbered twenty-eight, in square numbered one hundred and seven. And further, I bequeath and give to my infant
son, James Walker, one thousand dollars, to be paid out of my personal estate to, and applied, at the discretion of his guardian, hereinafter appointed, for the education of my son, James Walker. The
balance of my personal estate, whatever it may be, I desire shall
be equally divided between my mother, Dorcas Walker, my sister,
Sarah M'Callion, and my brothers, John, Lewis, and Henry
Walker."
The defendants all answered, (including the minor James Walker,
whose answer is put in by George Cover, under a special appointment or-him by the Court to answer for said infant,) and substantially admit the. facts stated in said bill; but they all, with the exception of Peck and wife, aver that the property cannot be divided
without prejudice. and refuse to agree to a sale.
The case being submitted on bill, answers, and exhibits, the Court
dismissed the bill: from which dismissal this appeal was taken by
the complainant.The case was argued by Mr. Brent, Jun., and Mr. Key, for the
appellant; and by Mr. Bradley, with whom was Mr. Red~n, who
submitted a printed argument, for the appellees.
For the appellant, it was contended:
1. That the Court has jurisdiction of this case under the circumstances.
2. That neither the'widow, Ann Sophia, nor the infant, James
Walker, has any right, under the will, in the property devised to
the complainant.
3. That even if the Court shall think the widow has one-third of
each specific-lot devised by the testator, yet the infant, James
Walker, has under the will no greater estate or interest in the complainant's property than a life estate; and that the Court should have
so decided.
4. That, as the bill makes an alternative prayer,,'the Court should

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

169

[John Walker vs. George Parker et al.)

have ordered partition between these tenants in common, if they
are so on a true construction of the will ; or a sale, if a partition
could not be made.
Mr. Brent and Mr. ,Key contended, that the devise in the wilLof
James Walker was of one-third of third of the roal estate in value;
and this was to be made up out of the residuary estate. If it can
be shown that there is a fund which can be made to contribute, it
should be brought in. The principle of law is,that where there is
a charge onthe real estate, the residuary estate is Irst to be taken
to satisfy it; and until this is exhausted, the real estate is not chargeable. Cited, 3 Paige's Chancery Rep. 316. This is a case in which
a Court of Chancery will bring in the residuary estate, in order to
carry into effect the several purposes of the testator.
As to the rights of the infant son of the testator, it was argued,
that he took nothing in the property given to the wife, after her
death. The words "foriver," which are used in the bequests to
others, are not used in the devise to him of the property given to
his mother. Cited, Russel vs. Milner, 4 Eng. Chan. Rep. 549.
564. 2 Harris. and John. 142. "All the right" given by the will
to his son, is all the right in the real estate given ,the widaw.
Under the laws of Maryland, the Chancellor may iri
such,a case as
this, decree a sale of the property. Act of 178.. ch. 72, sec. 12.
Act of 1794, ch. 60, sec. 8. But if the devises of the testator.s wvill
are construed-to give the appellees the estates they claim, the Qomplainant has a right to a partition. A bill for a partition is a matter
of right, when a title is shown in the complainant. Jeremy on
Equity Jurisdiction, 303. Ambler, 236.
It ought not to be considered that it was the intention of the
testator to give one-thiTd of all his estate to his §on. It was A.
large property, and he meafit to give a liberal portion of it to others
of his family.
For the appellees, it was argued:
The widow and infant' son of James Walker contend, that they,
are entitled, under the first devise in his will, to one undivided thfrd
of the whole of his real estates,-the widow, for life, and the son
in fee. The complainant, a devisee of part of his. real estate, denies
the right of the widow and son.
The first difficulty arises out of this denial. The proceeding is
in chancery, under the acts of assembly of 1785, ch. 72, sec. 12, and
1794, ch. 60, sec. 8. The first act authorizes the Court to decree a
sale, where an "infant" has a joint interest or interest in commoih
with any other person,, on its appearing to the Chancellor "that it
will be for the interest and advantage both of the infant and of the
other person to sell," &c. The second act, in the same case, where
an infant is concerned, authorizes a partition. The complainant
denies that the infant in this case has any estate or interest in the
property in controversy.
VOL. XIII.-P
22

170

SUPREME COURT.
(John Walker vs. George Parker et a.]

But it is only where an infant is concerned, that the Court is authorized, by these acts, to decree either partition or sale. Does
the complainant make a case for the action of the Court, Without admitting that the infant has some estate in the premises?
And may not the decree dismissing the complainant's bill, be sustained on the ground of his own denial of the infant's right ?
The 8th sec. of the act of 1786' ch. 45, to direct descents, has no
application. It relates to a case of intestacy, and to the: common
law side of the Court. This is the case of a devise, and the proceeding is by bill on the chancery side of the Court, under the two acts
above mentioned.
The only ground on which an application for a petition can be
made, is that it is for the benefit of all the parties. -This is denied,
and no proof was made to sustain this allegation in the bill.
But the widow and son are entitled to one undivided third of
the house and lots in this suit under the will. The primary
intention 'of the testator is to provide for his wife and son.
With this view, he first carves out of his whole real estate onethird, and gives it, by the first clause of his will, to his wife, for
life; "and in the event of' ier death, all the right in real property
hereby bequeathed to her, shall be-vested in my infant son." "In
the event of her death," means after her death; and the Words
"hereby bequeathed," refer to the real property, and not tO the right
or' estate, given to her. "Right in real property," are words
large enough to pass a fee. Nicholls vs. Butcher, 18 Ves. 193. 16
East, 221. 6 Cru. Dig. 240. Newkirk vs. Newkirk, 2 Caines'
Rep. 345.
The testator then goes on, and gives a particular house and lot to
the complainant; and the residue of his real estate he gives to his
son; first by a specific devise, and then by a residuary clause.
The words of the first devise, disposing of the third in his whole
estate, are clear. Effect must be given to every expression in a
will, if possible. Smith vs. Bell, 6 Peters, 76. Ram. on Wills, 97.
Law Lib. No.
p. 58.
It is said that the devise of that third is inconsistent with the devise to the complainant of the house and lots. The cases of inconsistency put in Cruise (6 Cru. Dig. 164, 408) are, where the whole
of an estate is given to one, and the whole of the same estate is, by
a subsequent clause, given to another. But here the whole of the'
lots claimed by the complainant is not given, first-to the wife and son,
and then to the complainant; one-third only is given by the first
devise to the wife and son, leaving two-thirds to pass, by the second
devise to the complainant.
And this was the meaning of the testator. He intended that his
wife should take one-third, and the complainant all that wag left:
as if he had said that the gift in the second devise shall be subject
to the part of the lots he ha | previously given by the first devise.
It was not necessary he should say expressly, in the latter clause, that

JANUARY TERM, 4839.

171

[John Walker vs. George Parker et aL]

the gift- thereby made *eas to be subject to the gift made by the
former. It is necessarily implied.
. The objection of inconsistency applies, if at all, as forcibly to the
wife as to the son. But can it be doubted that she takes one-third
of the whole of the real estate under the first clause of the first devise? And do not the words of the second clause give that third,
after her death, to the son, with as much clearness as the preceding
words give it to the wife?
Does the wife take one-third in the lots given to the son by the
specific devise in his favour? How can she, if the complainant's
rule of construction is to prevail? Is there any substantial difference in the words of devise? To say that the complainant
shall take the whole of this house and lot, would be to say, that
the wife sh.-l not take one-third of the whole real estate, but-onethird of part only.
Our construction makes the whole will harmonize, and gives operation to every clause. It makes the first devise dispose of onethird of the premises to the wife and son, and the second, of the
remaining two-thirds to the complainant.
Their construction
requires the total rejection and expunging from the will of the
clause in favour of the son. Give the complainant the whole
of these premises, and there would be nothing upon which that
clause could operate. The son would take the lots specifically
devised to him, under the devises in his favour, or as heir at law.
Uhless the second clause of the first devise had been ihserted, the
third of the premises in controversy, given to the wife for life,
would, on her death, have vested in the complainant: It could
be inserted for no other purpose than to intercept that third, and
vest it in the son.
If that clause be a kind of residuary devise, it is so of one-third
only; and the subsequent specific devises would not derogate from
it, so long as there was any thing for those devises to operate on.
Suppose, then, that the wife and son are entitled to one undivided
third part of the house and lots in question; were the Court right
in dismissing the bill? The proceeding is under the two acts of '85
and '94, which authorize a sale or partition, on the Court's being
satisfied that it would be for the interest and advantage of the
infant and other person to sell, &c. The complainant ought to have
proved that fact. In the case of an infant, nothing can be taken for
granted. But the answer denies that it would be for the infant's
interest and advantage to have the house and lots in question
divided and sold; which is responsive to the bill.
There is no proof that the Court could not therefore be satisfied
that it was for the advantage of the infant and other party, that
there should be a division or sale, and could not. so decree.
Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court:
This is an appeal fromia the decree of the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia.

172

SUPREME COURT.
[John Walker vs. George Parker et al.)

The complainant filed his bill, stating that, as devisee of James
Walker, he claims the fee in lot numbered six, in square one hunared and six, with all the improvements thereon, in, tho city of
Washington; and also under a deed from Margaret and James Peck,
lots numbered twenty-one and twenty-two, in the same square,
which lots were devised to the said Margaret in the same -will. And
that the wife of the devisor, since intermarried with George Parker,
claims, under the will one-third of the above property during her
life, and that at her death it shall go to the son of the deceased named
in the will.
And the complainant insists that he is entitled to the whole of the
property, free from the claims of the wife of the devisor or her son;
and he prays that the Court may so decree. But if the Court should
think that he is only entitled to two-thirds of the property, then he
asks a division of it, or that it may be sold, as shall be deemed proper.
The wife of the devisor and her present husband, and the infant
son, by guardian, assert their interest in one-third of the premises in
their answers; and are opposed to a sale or division of the property
because, among other reasons, it would be prejudicial to the interest
of the infant-son and devisee of the deceased.
Almost every part of the. will has some bearing on the question
raised by the complainant.
In his first devise, the testator says, "I bequeath and give to my
dearly beloved wife, Ann Sophia Walker, one-third of the Whole of
my personal estate forever, for her own proper us6 and benefit; and
also one-third of my real estate during her lifetime; and in the event
of her death, all the right in real property hereby bequeathed to her,
shall be, and is hereby, declared to be vested in my dear and infant
soni James Walker."
He then gives to his mother, "forever," a certain lot with its improvements. And then follows the devise to the complainant in
these words: "I bequeath and give to my dearly beloved brother,
John Walker, for ever, all of lot numbered six," &c. The devise of
the two lots to Margaret Peck is, that they shall be "her property
forever."
Several other devises of real property are made in the same form,
to his brothers and sisters ; and then he says," I bequeath and give
to my dear infant son, Jamnes Walker, lot numbered twenty-two, in
square numbered three hundred and fifty-two," &c. "I also bequeath
to him forever, the balance of my real estate, ,believed to be and to
consist in lots numbered.six, eight and nine, in square one hundred
and sixteen, lots thirty-one, thirty-two and thirty-thrge, in square
-numbered one hundred and forty; lots numbered eight and eleven
in square numbered two hundred-and fifty, and lot numbered twentyeight in square numbered one hundred and seven."
It is contended by the counsel for the complainants, that the specific devises to the brothers and sisters of the deceased, show his in-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

173

[John Walker a. George Parker et al.]

tention to give to them the property devised, clear of all encumbrance; and that the devise of the real estate to the widow, must
be satisfied out of the residuary devise to the infant son of the
deceased.
The devises are inconsistent with each other, but they are not entirely so. The whole of any specific property is not devised to each
of two devisees. The devise of one-third of his real estate to his
wife, and at her death to his son, is, to this extent, inconsistent with
the specific devises which follow, and which dispose of all his real
estate.
The devise of the "balance" of his real estate to his infant son,
goes on to describe particularly the property.
From his first devise to his wife, there can be no doubt that the
testator intended to give her what the law allowed her to take.
And it cannot be supposed that by the subsequent specific devises,
he designed to defeat this arrangement. It is equally clear that he
intended, on the death of his wife, that the property devised to her
should go to his, son.
The construction urged, that "all the right in real property
hereby bequeathed to her," shall go to his son, means a life estate
only in one-third of the real property, to the son, cannot be
sustained. The words, "all the right," fairly import the entire
or perfect right, "in the real property given to hia wife." This
reference to the devise to the wife, is descriptive of the extent of
the property to be vested in fee in the son. The right of his, wife
was to terminate at her death, and it would be inconsistent to sup.
pose that the testator would disiiose of the same right, and no more,
to his son.
This devise to his wife and son is a leading devise in the will. It
was first in the mind of the testator, and must limit and control the
other devises. The devises to the son are as specific as th6se to
other persons; and there would seem to be little or no ground for
the construction, that tho devise to the wife must be satisfied out of
the devises to the son. One-third of the entire real estate is given
to the wife, and on her death this third goes to the son; and in the
conclusion of the will certain lots are also specifically devised to the
son. The son, in common with the other devisees, takes the lots
specifically devised to him, subject to the devise of one-third to his
mother, and at her death he takes this third of these lots; and on6third of each specific devise in the will.
This construction gives effect to the different devises of the will;
and it Would seem to be the only mode by which the intention of
the testator can be effectuated. And it is in accordance with that
well settled rule in the construction of wills, which regards the interest of the heir at law.
With the exception of the devises to the wife and son, all the deyises are collateral, and take the property from tb~e line of descent
established by law.
r2

174

SUPREME COURT.
(Jolm Walker vs. George Parker et al.)

If the complainant can hold the lots claimed by him free from the
devise to the wife of the testator, by the same rule every, other devisee in the will must hold in the same manner. And this would
defeat the leading devise, for the entire real estate is specifically disposed of in the will.
If the devise to-the wife be thrown upon the specific devises 'to
the son, it not only violates the rule which it is claimed exempts
the specific devises from this devise to the wife; but supposes
that the testator first devises to his wife and son one-third of his
real estate, and then at the conclusion of' his will gives specifiC
devises to his son, which are intended wholly as to him to annul the
first devise.
This construction would do injustice to the language of the testator, and defeat his intention,
Had the widow taken a life estate under the taw, her interest of
one-third would have extended to every part of the real property
of her deceased husband. And as the devise is made in as general terms as the statute which gives dower, it must,have the same
effect.
This construction of the will defeats the main object of the complainant's bill. But his counsel insists that the part, devised to the
wife should be set off, or the sale' of the property ordered.
The bill does not seem to have been framed with a view to a partition or sale of the estate. Several of the devisees, all of whom are
interested in such a proceeding, are not made parties. And a partition or sale is opposed by the infant son and his mother, as injurious
to his interest. And the rights of the mother and son are so intimately blended. that any proceeding which shall affect the life estate
must affect the inheritance.
A partition or sale of this estate is regulated by the statutes of
Maryland.
The 12th section of the act of 1785, chapter 72,-provides, that
wherd an infant has an interest in lands, and it shttl 'appear to
the Chancellor upon application of any 'of the parties concerned,
and upon the appearance of theeinfant, that it shall be to, the interest.;
and advantage of the infant, to have the land sold; he may order a
sale.
And in the 8th section of the act of 1794, ch. 60, it is provided,
on a similar application and appearance of the infant, as stMed in the
above statute, for a partition, if the Chancellor, "upon hearing mtid
examining al the circumstances, shall think that it witl be for the interest and advantage of all parties concerned," he may order a partition.
In this ease there is no evidence which will enable the Court to
judge whether a sale or partition of the property, would be to the
advantage of the infant and the other parties. And it should hardly
all evidence, should debe expected that this Court, in the absence
theofanswer.
cree either of these alternatives against

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

175

-[John Walker vs. George Parker et al.]

The complainant may be subjected to some inconvenience by
holding the property as tenant in common with th" devisee of the
testator; but it was a condition imposed by the terms of the will.
And this Court, acting under the law of Maryland, cannot remedy
this inconvenience; unless the complainant shall bring himself clearly
within the provisions and policy of that law.
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill is affirmed
with costs.

