THE DECISIONS
OF THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

JANUARY

TERM, 1839.

'CLEMENT WOODWARD, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, VS. JAMES BROWN,
AND SARAH JANE, HIS WIFE, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
Where, by a misprision of the clerk of the Circuit C ourt, the judgment in a case brought
up by a writ of error bad not been entered according to the declaration, the Supleme
Court allowed an amendment to be made by the entry of the judgment, without awarding a certiorari to the Circuit Court. This was done in a case which had been
brought up by a writ of error to the previous term of the Court.
f
It is a well established principle o law, that a tenant cannot dispute the title of his landlord; 'awl where the Marshal of the District of Columbia, having a writ of habere
facias possessionem for the west half pf a lot in the city of Washington, took possession
of the east half of the lot, ar 1 the tenant of the persons who claimed to be the owners
of the lot attorned to the plaintiffg in the writ, such attomment was without authority,
and was void.
A tenant who disclaims his landlord's title is not entitled to notice to quit and deliver up
possession.
In an action ofljectment, the day of the ouster need not be alleged; and it is sufficient if
it is laid after the demise.
Th specific date under a videlicet is not necessary in a declaration in ejectment, and may
be rejected as surplusage: if it 'sufficiently appears on the face of the declaration that the
ouster was after the entry under the several demises.
'The rule is well established, that when the right of entry is by 'ouster of the title of the
wife, the demise may be laid in' the name of the husband, or in the names of the husband and wife.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Co1lnty
of Washington, in thd District of Columbia.
Mr. Brent, for the defendants in error, moved for a writ of certiow
rari to the Clerk of the Circuit Court of the County of Washington,
on the allegation of a diminution of the record of the cause in that
Court. The clerk had, by 'a misprigion, made an error in not entev
according to the declaration.
ipg
the judgment
. Coxe,
for the plaintiff
in- error, objected to the allowance of the
motion. The case came up to the last term of this Court; and it i&,.
now too late to'issue the certiorari asked for. Thd error cannot bp
VOL. XIII.-A

1

SUPREME COURT.
[Woodward v. Brown and wife.]

amended without an application to the Circuit Court for authority
to make the amendment. The clerk cannot therefore send up an
amended record.
• Mr. Brent.-In a writ of error in. the King's Bench in England,
amendments of the record can be made after the writ issued. He
cited 5 Burrow, 2730. 2 Strange, 908.
The Court allowed the amendment to be made in this Court.
The case as stated, in the opinion of the Court, was as follows.
"An action of ejeetment was commenced by the defendants in
error against the plaintiffs, to recover possession of the easternhalf
of lot numbered 2, in square numbered 348, in the city of Washington. Sev6ral distinct demises were laid in the declaration, of different dates and for different periods of time.
"One of the demises was in the name of Jane Stinger, while she
was single, but now Sarah Jane Brown, wife of the said James
Brown; and another in the names of Jame6 Brown and Sarah Jane
Brown, his wife.
"The general issue was pleaded, and the jury found a general
verdict of guilty.
"On the trial the plaintiffs proved, that up to the 22d Nov., 1834,
the defendant was the tenant of Sarah Jane Stinger, who intermarried with the plaintiff Brown in the fall of the year 1835. That
after Nove-ffiber, 1834, he refused to pay rent, and claimed to hold
possession of the premises as tenant of the, Bank of the United
States. That at the time the premises were rented to the defendant
the said Sarah Jane was seized and possessed of the same in fee
simple. And that about the time of his refusal to pay rent, notice
was given to the defendant to quit; and also, afterwards, in January,
1835.
"Upon this evidence the plaintiffs rested their case; and the defendant's counsel moved the Court to instruct the jury, that-they
were not entitled to recover on the evidence, which instruction the
Court refused to give; and the defendant excepted to this opinion
of the Court.
"And the defendant proved, that the deputy marshal, having a
writ of habere facias possessioneti, against the defendant for the
west half of said lot, but supposing the writ to be for the east half,
of which the defendant was in possession, he was required by the
deputy marshal to surrender the possession of the east half of the
lot to the agent of the Bank of the United States; and he did surrender the possession to him, and the defendant agreed to hold possession under the bank. But the Court overruled this evidence, to
which opinion of the Court the defendant also excepted."
The writ of eor was proecuted by the defendant in the Circuit
Court.
The case was argued by Coxe for the. plaintiff in error, and by
Messrs. Brent and Brent for fhe'defendants.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error presented two questions for
the consideration of the Court on the first bill of xceeptio-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

3

[Woodward vs. Brown and wife.]

1st. Whether in case of a tenancy'from month to month, where
the tenant held over after the expiration of the tenancy, and continued so to hold without paying rent for a period of fourteen
months, the notice to quit at the expiration'of the ensuing month be
sufficient.
2d. Whether sach notice as is set forth in the bill of exceptions,
by an agent whose appointment is merely oral, and the notice
verbal, is sufficient.
Ont the second bill of exceptions, the plaintiffs' counsel objected
to the ruling of the Circuit Court, by which the objection of the
defendants in that Court to evidence offered by the plaintiff was
refused.
The defendant, to sustain the issue on his part, produced a competent witness, who testified that, on the 22d day of November,
1834, he, as the deputy marshal of this distriet,went to the premises
mentioned in the said declaration, then in the occupancy of the said
defendant, with a writ of habere facias possessionem against the
said defendant, in company with W. W. Corcoran, the agent of the
Bank of the United States, named as the lessor of the plaintiff in
said writ, and which was supposed by the said parties to comprehend, but did not in fact comprehend, the premises mentioned in the
declaration; that it was then and there represented to the defendant
by the said agent and the marshal, that the latter had such a writ
for said premises, and the said defendant, supposing it to be such a
writ as represented, voluntarily and peaceably surrendered the possession of said premises"to the said agent of the said bank, who endorsed upon the said writ an acknowledgment of the delivery of the
possession of the said lot and premises therein described to him as.
such agent; and afterwards, on the same day, the said defendant
entered into an agreement t6 hold the said premises, in the declaration mentioned, as the tenant of the said Bank of the United States;
and the defendant then offered further to prove, that he, the said
defendant, from the 22d November 1834, held, and still holds, possession of the said premises, under the said agreement last named,
and that the said Bank of the United States then had, and now has,
a good and lawful legal title to the said premises: to the admission
of the said testimony, so offered to be given as aforesaid, the plaintiff, by his counsel, objected, and the Court. sustained the objection,
and refused to permit such testimony to be given.
Messrs. Brent and Brent, for the defendants in error, contended:
L That the possession of the premises, claiming to hold in fee
simple, by the plaintiffs, is prima facie evidence of a fee. Ricard
vs. Williams, 5 Cond. Rep. 238. The bill of exceptions shows the
possession of the plaintiffs below, aWud that they held in fee.
2. Notice to quit is not necessary, when the tenant disclaims.
Catlin vs. Washburn,, 3.Vermont Rep. 25. -Jackson vs. Wheeler, 6
John. 272. Jackson vs. M'Leod, 12 John. 182. Cowper, 621.
Buller, N. P. 96. 1 Wheaton's Selwyn, 585. 5 American Com-

SUPREME COURT.
[Woodward vs. Brown and wife.]

mon Law Cases, 43, 44. 3 Peters, 45. But if, in a case like this,
notice to quit is necessary, it was given,
• 3. The defendant, now the plaintiff in error, being tenant, could
Rot dispute the title of his landlord. Jackson vs. M'Leod, 12 John.
182. 3 John. 223. 504. Blight's lessee vs. Rochester, 5 Cond. Rep.
339. Willison vs. Watkins, 3 Peters, 47. 5 American Com. Law
Rep. 41, 42. 1 Wheaton's Selwyn, 566, 567.
4. The plaintiff in error cannot, by a constructive ouster and attornment, set up an adverse title; and if he could, the attornment,
through mistake, is void. Love vs. Dennis, 1 Harper's S. C. Rep. 70.
1 Marshall, 558. 6 Taunton Rep. 206. 8 Serg. & Lowber, 237.
239. 9 Serg. & Lowber, 10. 13 Serg. &Lowber, 58, 59. 3 Peters',
43. Wilkins vs. Mayor & Co. 6 Harris & Johnson, 533. I Term.
Rep. 760. 3 T. R. 14. 9 T. R. 62. 2 Starkie on Evidence, 532.
. 5. The Bank of the United States cannot be received in this case
to defend the title of the tenant to the plaintiff, in the Circuit Court.
1 Chitty's Plead. 134. 3 Com. Dig. 579. 582. 4 Maul & Selwyn,
347.
6. The demise by Brown and wife is vell laid. 2 Chitty's Pleading, 878, note T.
Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court. After
stating the case :
The counsel for the plaintiffs contend, that the ruling of the Court
was erroneous, and that the declaration is essentially defective.
It appears from the bill of exceptions, that the plaintiffs not only
pro- ed title, but also that the defendant entered into the possession
of the premises under their title, as tenant. These facts being proved,
the Couirt very properly refused to instruct the jury, as stated in the
first bill of exceptions, that the plaintiffs were not entitled to recover.
And there is n6 doubt that the Court properly excluded the evidence stated. in the second bill of exceptions.
The writ of possession, which is admitted to have been issued in
pursuance of the judgment, did not call for the east half of the lot,
of which the defendant was in possession, and the marshal had no
right to change his possession of this lot. And the attornment to
the agent of the bank was voluntary, and without authority. The
well established principle, therefore, that a tenant shall not be permitted to dispute his landlord's title, excludes the defendant from
setting up the title of the bank.
The objection as to the sufficiency of the notice to the defendant
cannot be sustained. 'He had disclaimed his landlord's title and attorned to the bank. ,Under such circumstances he was not entitled
to notice. 3 Peters', 48. 1 Wheat. Selwyn, 585. But if notice to
quit had been necessary, it was given; and, as appears from the bill
of exceptions, all objection to its "sufficiency and legality" was
waived by the defendant.
The declaration, it is insisted, is defective in several particulars.

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

5

(Woodward vs. Brown and wife.]

That thd demises are inconsistent, and that the ouster is alleged two
years before the last demise.
On the part of the plaintiff it is intimated, that as the case is
brought up on bills of exceptions, the defects in the declaration are
not before the Court for consideration. The assignment of errors is
not limited to the bills of exceptions, but may embrace any errors
which appear on the face of the record.
The last demise is stated to have been made in eighteen hundred
and -thirty-six, and the ouster alleged, "by virtue of which said
several demises, the said Richard entered into all and singular the
premises aforesaid, with the appurtenances thereunto belonging, and
was thereof possessed; and the said Richard being so thereof possessed, the said John Doe afterwards, to wit, on the twenty-fourth
day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-four, with force and arms," &c.
The day of the ouster need not be alleged, and it is sufficient if
laid after the demise. 2 Chitt. 881. 1 Wheaton's Selwyn, 590.
In this declaration it is averred, that the plaintiff entered under
the said several demises, and being in possession, °the said John
Doe afterwards, to wit- on, &c. The specific date under a videlicet
was unnecessary, and may be rejected as surplusage; it sufficiently
appearing on the face of the declaration, that the ouster was after
the entry under the several demises.
There is no repugnancy in the several demises laid: one, in the
name of Jane Stinger, was before the marriage, and the last demise
being subsequent to the marriage, it is well laid in the names of the
husband and wife. The rule is well established, that where the
right of entry is by virtue of the title of the wire, the demise may be
laid in the name of the husband, or in the names of both husband
and wife. 2 Chitt. 878.
It is not perceived how the demises as laid in this declaration, can
prejudice the rights of the defendant in an action for the mesne profits. They will enable the lessor of the plaintiff to recover the profits from the time the defendant refused to pay the rent, and this he
is entitled to. Upon the whole, we think there is no error in the
proceedings of the Circuit Court, and the judgment is therefore
affirmed with costs.
A2

