SUPREME COURT.

WILLIAM WALLACE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, VS. CORRY M'CONNrELL,

DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
An action was instituted on a promissory note against the drawer, by which the drawer proaised to pay at the office of discount and deposite of the Bank of the United States at
1N'ashvitle, three years after date, four thousand and eighty dollars, In the deelaration
which set out the note according to its terms, and alleged the promise to pay. according
to the tenor of the note; there was no averment that the note was presented at the bank,
or demand of payment made there. The defendant pleaded payment and satisfaction of
s1 e note, and issue was joined thereont Afterwards, at the succeeding term, the defendAht interposed a plea of puis darien continuance, stating, that four thousand two
hundred and four dollars, part of the amount of the note had been attached by B. and
W. in a state Court of Ajabama, under the attachment law of the state, and a judgment had
been obtained against him forfour thousand two hundred and four dollars and costs, with
a stay of proceedings until the further prodeedings in the case; which remains Undetertned. The plaintiff demurred to this plea, and the Circuit Court sustained the demurrer;
and judgment was given for the plaintiff for six hundred and seventy-nine dollars, the
residue of the note beyond the amount attached, and a final judgment for the whole
amount of the note. Held, that there was no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court.
The aoeeptor of a bill of exchange stands in the same relation to the drawee as the maker
of a note does to the payee; and the acceptor is the principal debtor in the case of a bill,
precisely like the maker of a note. The liability of the acceptor grows.out of and is to be
governed by the terms of his acceptance; and the liability of the maker of a note grows
out of, and is to be governed by the terms of his note; and the place of payment can be
of no more importance in the one case than in the other.
It iq of the utmost importance that all rules relating to commereial law should.be stable and
-uniform. They are adopted for practical purposes, to regulate the course of commercial
transactions. When a note or bill is' made payable at a particular bank, as is generally
the case, it is well known that according to the usual course of business, the note or bill'
is lodged at the bank for collection; and if the maker or acceptor calls to take it up when
i falls
due, it will be delivered to him,,tad the business is closed. But should he not
find the note or bill at the bank, he can deposite his money to meet the note when presented -and should he be afterwards prosecuted, he will be exonerated from all costs and
damages, upon proving such tender and deposite. Or should the note or bill be made
payable at some place other than a bank, and no deposite could be made, or he 'should
choose to retain his money in his own possession, an offer to pay the money at the time
and plke would protect him against interest and costs, on bringing the money into
Court.
In actions on promissory notes against the maker, or on bills of exchange where the suit is
against the maker, in the one case, and the acceptor in the other, and the note o"bill is made
payable at a specified time and place ; it is not necessary to aver in the declaration or
prove on the trial, that a demand of payment was made in order to maintain the actibn.
But if the maker or acceptor was at the place at the time designated, and was ready and
offered to pay the money, it was matter of defence to be pleaded and proved on his part.
The jurisdiction 'of the District Court of the United Staies for the district of Alabama, and
the right of a plaintiff to prosecute his suit, having attached by the commencement of'
the suit in the District Court, that right cannot be taken away or arrested by any proceedings in another Court. An attachment of the debt by the process of a state Court i
after the commencement of the suit in.a Court of the United States, cannot affect the right
of the plaintiff to recover in the suit.
An attachment commenced, and conducted to a condlusion before the institution of a suit
against the debtor in a Court of the United Stated, may be set up as a defence to the suit;
and the defendant would .beprohibited pro-tanto under a recovery had by virtue of the
attachment, and could plead such recovery in bar. So, too, an attachment pending in a
state Court, prior to the commencement of a quit in the Court of the United States, may
be pleaded in abatement. The attachment of the debt in such case in the hands of tbq
defendant, would fix itihere in favour of the attaching creditors and the defendant could.
not afterwards pay it over to the plaintiff. The attaching creditor would in such a case,

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

137

[Wallace vs. M'Connell.]
acquire~a lien on the debt binding on the defendant, and which the-Courts of all other
governments, if they recognise such proceedings at all, would not fail to regard. The
rule must be reciprocal; and when the suit in one Court is commenced prior to proceedings
under attachment, in another Court, such proceedings cannot arrest the'suit.
It seems that a plea of puis darien continuance, is considered as a waiver of all previous
pleas ; and the cause of action is admitted to the same extent as if no other defence hadi
been urged than that contained in the plea.

IN error to the District Court of the United States for the southern
district of Alabama.
The plaintiff in error, William Wallace, was sued in the District
Court of Alabama, exercising the powers of a Circuit Court of the
United States, on the second day of April, 1836, by a capias issued
out of that Court, and returnable on the first Monday of May following. The action was brought on a promissory note, under the
seal of the defendant, for four thousand eight hundred and eighty
dollars, dated May 10, 1832, and payable to the plaintiff or to his
order, at the office of discount and deposite of the Bank of the United
States, at Nashville, three years and two months after date.
At the May term, 1836, of the District Court, the plaintiff filed a
declaration on the note, in debt, alleging the non-payment of the
note, although frequent demands had been made of the drawer. No
demand was alleged to have been made at the office of discount and
deposite of the Bank of the United States, at Nashville.
The defendant pleaded payment, on which issue was joined, and
the case was continued.
At the succeeding term of the District Court, the defendant filed
the following plea: That as to the sum of forty-two hundred and four
dollars, part and.parcel of the sum by the said plaintiff in said declaration demanded, he, the said plaintiff, ought not further to have and
maintain his aforesaid action therefor, against him; because he
saith, -that after the said last. continuance of this cause, that is to say,
after the term of this Court held on the first Monday of May last,
and before the Deceihber term aforesaid, to wit, on the eighth day

of June, in the year 1836, at Mobile, to wit, in the district aforesaid,
one William J. Blocker, John R. Blo 2ker, and Benjamin Homer,
merchants, trading under the name of Horner, Blocket and Co. by
William J. Blocker one of the said firm, in behalf of himself and his
copartner, caused to be sued out a certain writ of original attach..
meat against the said Corry M'Connell, for the sum of forty-two
hundred and four dollars; and which said writ was issued by Benjamin Wilkins, a justice of the peace of Mobile county, on the said
eighth day of June, in the year 1836, and was directed to the sheriff
of Mobile county, and was made returnable to the county Court of
Mobile county, which was held on the second Monday in June, 1836.
And the said defendant further avers, that the said plaintiffs in thle
said attachn.ent, were at the time of suing out the same, residents
of the state of Alabama; that the said Corry M'Connell was a nonresident, and citizen of the state of New York, and that the said plain
tiffs did comply with the requisitesof the statute, in such cases made
M 2

18

138

SUPREME COURT.
[Wallace vs. M'Connell.]

and provided,' by giving bond and seenrity, and filed affidavit,
whereby it is shown that the said jlistic 'and the said county Court
had jurisdiction of the said attachment, and that the said county
Court could lawfully hear and determine the same. And the said
defendant further saith, that in said original attachment, such proceedings were had; that he, the said 'William Wallace was on the
said eighth day of June, 1836, summoned as a garnishee by the sheriff of Mobile county, and required to appear before the said county
Court, and answer, on oath, what he was indelted to said Corry
M'Connell.

And the said William Wallace, defendant, further saith,

that, in obedience to the said summons of garnishment, he, the said
William, did appear before the said county Court of Mobile, at the
said term of the said county Court held on the second Monday in
June, 1836, before the judge of said Court then sitting, and was in
said suit of attachment between the said Homer, Blocker and Co.,
plaintiffs, and Corry M'Connell, defendant, examined on oath, touching his indebtedness to the said Corry M'Connell; whereupon he
did declare on oath, that he did execute to the said M'Connell, the
note for the sum of four thousand eight hundred and eighty dollars,
on which' the said plaintiff in this suit hath declared, that he did
pay, on the said note to said M'Connell, on the "24th day of September, 1833, the sum of three hundred and seventy-two dollars
thirty-four cents, and that the remainder of-said note was due by
said Wallace to said M'Connell, &c. And the said defendant further
saith, that in the said attachment by said Court, at the said June
term thereof, it was ordered that the proceedings against said M'Connell be stayed for six months, and that notice be given to the said
M'Connell of the pendency of said attachment, by letter, directed to
New York.; the said M'Connell being shown to be a resident of the
state of New York. And the said defendant, Wallace, further saith,
that in the said attachment, and upon the said writ of garnishment,
the .said Court at the said June term, then sitting, did make the further
order following, to wit:
It appearing, to the satisfaction of the Court, that William Wallace
has been duly summoned as a garnishee, and he having admitted
an indebtedness to said defendant, to an 'amount greater than the
amount sued for in the above entitled cause, it is considered by the
Court, that said plaintiffs do recover from said garnishee, the sum of
forty-two hundred and four dollars, the amount sued for in said case,
together with the cost thereof, and that all proceedings against said
garnishee be stayed until the final disposition of said case; wherefore the said cause was, in said county Court, at said June term,
continued by said Court, as well against the said M'Connell as
against the said Wallace, till the next term thereof, to be held in due
course of law, that is to say, on the second Monday of February, in
the year 1837. All which said proceedings in the said county Court,
in which the said plea still remains pending and undetermined, are
still in full force, and not reversed, vacated, or otherwise set aside, as
by the record and p.:oceedings in said Court, still remaining of re-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

139

[Wallace vs. M'Connell.]

cord, will more fully and at large appear; and that he, the said defendant, is ready to verify: wherefore, he prays judgment, if the
said paintiffs ought further to have or maintain his said action therefor, against him, this defendant, as to the sum of four thousand
two hundred and four dollars, parcel of the sum by the said plaintiffs above demanded, &c.
The plaintiff at the same term entered a demurrer to this plea of
puis darien continuance, and prayed the Court to render judgment
against the defendant for six hundred and seventy-six dollars thirty
cents, parcel of the debt of four thousand eight hundred and eighty
dollars, the amount of the note, which y the plea was wholly undefended; and as to the said plea of Puis darien continuance, the
plaintiff says that the plea of the defehdant is not sufficient to bar
him from maintaining his action on the said note, &c.
The Court, on the pleadings, gave judgment as follows: "As to
the said sum of four thousand two hundred and five dollars; being
argued by counsel, it seems to the Court that said plea, as to the
said sum of forty-two hundred and five dollars, and the allegations
therein contained, are not sufficient in law to bar the said plaintiff
from having and maintaining his aforesaid action therefor against
the said defendant; whereupon, it is ordered by the court, that
,the said demurrer be sustained; but as to he sum of six hundred
and seventy-five dollars, thirty-nine cents, the residue of said
plaintiff's debt, in his declaration mentioned, this day icame tie
-plaintiff, by his attorney, and the said defendant, being solemnly
called, came not, but wholly made default, as to the said last mentioned sum, whereby the said plaintiff, therein against him remains
altogether undefended. It is therefore considered by the Court, that
the said Corry M'Connell, plaintiff, do recover against the said William Wallace, defendant, the said sum of four thousand eight hundred
and eighty dollars and thirty-nine cents, his debt aforesaid, and also
the further sum of three hundred and ninety-four dollars, the inteest thereon, assessed by the clerk of this Court by way of damages,
for the detention of the same, together with his cost in this cause;
the plaintiff remits to the defendant the sum of three hundred and
fifty-one dollars, twenty-eight cents."
The record of the District Court stated: ,In this. cause the Court
decided that the plea of puis da ien continuance was a waver of
the previous plea pleaded by the defendant: there was no default
of the defendant, further than his abandonment, under the decision
of the Court, of his first plea. In this cause the dofendant moved
the Court to stayr proceedings in the said cause until the final decision of the County Court of Mobile county, upon the attachment
of Homer, Blocker and Co.; which motion was overruled."
The defendant prosecuted this appeal.
The case Was argued by Mr. Key, for the plaintiff in error; and
by Mr. Crittenden, far the deferndat.,

SUPREME COURT.
[Wallace vs. M'Connell.]

For the plaintiff, it was contended,
1. That the demurrer should have been overruled, the matters
pleaded being sufficient under the attachment laws of Alabama.
2. That the judgment, by nil dicit, as to the residue of the debt,
viz, the $675 39, not attached, was erroneous ; inasmuch as it was
covered and defended by the first plea of payment to the whole
debt, which plea was not waived by the subsequent plea, which
only went to part of the debt claimed in the action: parties being
allowed by the law and practice in Alabama to plead any number
of pleas to the same cause of action.
3. That the declaration on the note does not aver that payment
of the note was-demanded at the office of discount and deposite of
the Bank of the United States, at Nashville, where the same was
payable.
Upon the first point, Mr. Key contended that the attachment in
the State Court of Alabama was a bar to further proceeding in the
District Court. If this be not so, the plaintiff in the Court below
will twice recover the amount of his debt from the defendant: once
in the District Court, and again in the State Court! as his debt to the
attaching creditor "Will be paid under the judgment of that Court.
The plaintiff in error had answered to the attachment, that he
owed to M'Connell, the defendant in error, the amount of the
debt ciaimed by the plaintiff in the attachment; and this, by the attachment law of Alabama, fixed his responsibility. But as to the
residue of the note, he continued liable to the plaintiff in the District Court, if liable at all. The District Court decided that the plea
of the attachment was a waiver of the first plea. This Was not so,;
it could operate, only, if it had any operation as to part of it.
. The case of the defendant in error is put on the ground that the
attachment was no bar to the suit in the District court of Alabama.
This would be so, if in the attachment case the garnishee could
plead the existing action in the District Court. This he could not
do. - It was not a. plea to the attachment, that a suit was pending
for the debt attached; and this is the law of Alabama, as it is in all
the states in which attachment laws exist. By the customs of London such a plea would be good; but not so here.
By the attachment laws of Alabama, every thing in the shape of
goods or credits, whether sued for or not, even judgments and money in the hands of the sheriff, may be attached; and:the garnishee
can only defend himself by showing that he had nothing in his
hands, and owed nothing to the defendant in the attachment. No
matter how he owed it, whether sued for or not., Aiken's Digest, 37,
sec. 15, 16, 19.
Nor can the defendant in the attachment suit complain. He has
full notice of this proceeding, and may appear and dissolve .the
attachment; and he has security for the restoration of the property in
a year and a day, should the plaintiff in the attachment have recovered improperly.
In the case before the Court,, the plea of puis darien continuance

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

141

[Wallace vs. M'Connell.]

is said to have overruled the plea of payment, entered to the plaintiff's declarations, and thus makes it apply to the whole of the claim
of the plaintiff; when, in fact, its application was for a sum less than
the amount of the note, leaving the balance, six hundred and
seventy-five dollars thirty-nine cents, undefended. This is founded
upon the supposition that such a plea withdraws the whole defence
originally pleaded. But 'this is not so; the plea has no operation
but to the sum stated in it: and in this case, the attachment had
seized upon four thousand two hundred and five dollars, leaving the
residue of the note sued upon protected from a judgment of the
Court, on the original plea of payment. The case in 2 Wendall's
Reports, 300, fully sustains this position.
* 2. Do not the attachment laws of the states interpose a bar to a
suit commenced before the attachment?
It is important that this question should be considered, and the
principle settled; and-that the property of absent debtors shall be
liable to pay their creditors. Much of the credit which an individual, who is a non-resident, obtains, is'often'derived from the debts
due to him at the place or in the country in which the credit is
given; as they are considered liable, under the attachment laws of
the states, to the payment of his debts. Thus the credit operations
of the country are made safer, and commercial transactions are beneficially extended.
It seems to be considered by the District Court of Alabama, that
the attachment in the State Court could not operate after the. commencement of the suit on the note. But the only question to the
original debtor under the attachment was, do you owe the money?
Aid, no state of thingo, ouch a

a ouit, cr suronty for the defendant

in the attachment, could exempt him from liability for the amount
in his hands.
It is said, it is different in England: this is so to some exten. By
the attachment law, under the customs of London, a debt in suit
cannot be attached. But this is not the law in the states of the
United States. The attachment law of England, under the customs
of London, is peculiar in many of its features; although in some
respects our laws are the same. Customs of London, 265-268. By
that law, debts in suit, debts on judgments, cannot be attached;our
laws give no such exemptions.
It is a settled principle, that the property of absent debtors is liable, by legislation, to the payment of their debts. This is a rule in
almost all the states of the Union; and it will not be disturbed by
the Courts of the United States. Cited, Aiken's Digest of the Laws
of Alabama, 37, Sergeant on Attachment, 161. 2 Dallas, 279.
2 Yeates,. 192. 9 John. Rep. 221. 20 John. Rep. 229-231, 239,
268.

4 Cowan, 521.

1 Peters' C.C. R. 245.

8 Cowan, 311, 315.

1 Harris and M'Henry, 236. 2 Harris and M'Henry, 466. 1 Alabama Rep. 129. 12 Martin's Rep. 68.
Upon these authorities, it is immaterial whether the attachment
was commenced before or after the suit was instituted.

142

SUPREME COURT.
[Walace vs. M'Connell.]

3. It is contended that the plea of puis darien continuance, is
a waiver of all preceding pleas.
This may be admitted, so f6r as the plea goes, but it does not extend 1eyoi~d the matter of the plea; nor is it an abandonment of a
defence which is riot affected by the plea. Where it is pleaded to a
part of the bill sued on, and not to the whole amount of it, the original plea stands for the residue unaffected by the spemial plea.
This must be so, or the grossest injustice might arise; as the defendant, who should desire to avail himself of a just defence to a part
of a debt claimed from him, must give up a defence which woilld
be equally available against another part of it.
The authorities do not sustain the position upon which the decision of the District Court was made. When the plea of puis darien
continuance goes to a part only of the claim, it has no extent to any
other or further part. 1 Alabama Rep. 129. 2 Wetidall, 300.
The last objection is that there is no averment of a demand at the
bank of deposit, at Nashville; and no demand is stated to have lzSeen
made there.
Can an action be maintained without proving that the money
was not tt the bank of deposite, in Nashville, to pay it; and that a
demand was made there in conformity with the note ? It has been
decided that as to the endorser (m a note of this description, it is
necessary to proire such a demand. Smith vs. the Bank of the
United States, 11 Wheat. 171. The same principle should apply in
an action against the drawer.
Mr. Crittenden, for the defendant, said; there are but two..questions in the ce
1. Whether the plea puis darien continuance is a good bar to the
action.
2. Whether that plea was a waiver of the finst plea of payment.
As to the first question, it is insisted, on the part of M'Connell,
that neither the pendency of an attachment, nor condemnation Under
it, if the attachment be issued after the commencement of his suit.
can form any legal defence or har to that suit. And for authority
on this point, reference is made to 3 Wilson, 297-304. Brooks vs.
Smith, 1 Salkeld, 280. Savage's case, 1 Salkeld, 291. 5 Johns.
Reps. 101. 5 Taunton, 558. 4 Durnford and East's Reps. 312.
16 Eng. Com. Law Reps. 78 and 79.
As M'Connell's suit was brought long before the attachment
pleaded in bar of it, it follows, therefore, that the decision of the
Court upon the demurrer to that plea was correct. If the matter
of the plea was available at all, it could only have been pleaded in
abatement. 1-Chitty, 697.
As to the gecond question, we refer to Chitty's Pleading, vol. i.
697, &c., and the cases cited in thb note thereto; and also to the
case of Kenner and Bussard vs. Marshall, 1 Wheaton, 215. In the
case referred to in Chitty, he says: "A plea puis darien continuance,
is not a departure from, but is it waiver of the first plea, and no ad-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

143

[Wallace vs. M'Connell.]

vantage can afterwards be taken of it; nor can even the plaintiff
afterwards proceed thereon."
Upon the whole imtter, therefore, it is confended that the jidgment ought to be affirmed.
Mr. Justice THomPsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.This ease comes up on a writ of error irom the District Court of
the United States for the southern district of Alabama.
The action in the Court below was founded upon a note, which,
although under seal, is considered in Tennessee a promissory note;
and is in the words following:
"Three years and two months after date, I promise to pay Corry
M'Connell or order, at the office of discount and deposite of the
Bank of the'Utited States, at Nashville, four thousand eight hlun
dred and eighty dollars, ninety-nine cents, value received." The
declaratin sets out this note according to its terms, and alleges the
promise io pay at tile office of discount and deposite of the Bank
of the United States, at Nashville; without averring that the note
was presented at the bank or demand of payment made there. The
defendant pleaded payment and satisfaction of the note; atid issue
being joined thereupon, the cause was continued until the next {erm
thereafter. At which time the defendanti interposed,.a plea puis
darien continuance, alleging that the plaintiff, as to the sum of four
thousand two hundred and four dollars, part and parcel of the sum
demanded in the declaration, ought not further to have and maintain his action therefor against him, because that sum had been attached by BI cker and Co., by proceedings commenced by them
against the plaintiff in this cause, under the attachment law of Alabama, in which he was summoned as garnishee. And setting out
the proceedings against him according to the-requirements of that
law, and under whica he was examined on oath; and did declare,
that he executed the note to the said M'Connell, the plaintiff in this
cause, as set out in the declaration; that he had paid on the note
three hundred and seventy-two dollars and thirty-four cents, and
that the remainder of the said note was due by him to said M'Con-.
nell. And the plea further sets out, that under the proceedings on
the attachment, the Court had given judgment against him for four
thousand two hundred and-four dollars and costs; but with a stay
of all further proceedings until the further disposition of the case,
and which remains yet undetermined.
To this plea the plaintiff demurred. And the Court sustained
the demurrer, and gave judgment for the plaintiff for six hundred
and seventy-five dollars and thirty-nine cents, the residue of the
plaintiff's debt in his declaration mentioned, by default; and thereupon gave a final judgment for the plaintiff for the full amount of
the note, four thousand eight hundred and eighty dollars, the debt
aforesaid, and three hundred and ninety-four dollars, the interest
assessed by the clerk, together with his cost. And the plaintiff remits upon the record the sum of three hundred and fifty-one dollars

144

SUPREME COURT.
[Wallace vs. M'Connell.]

and twenty-eight cents; and the questions arising upon this record
have been made and argued under the following objections:
1. That the declaration is bad for want of an averment that the
note was presented, and payment demanded at the office of discount
and deposite of the Bank of the United States, at Nashville.
2. That the matters pleaded of the proceedings under the attachment laws of Alabama, were sufficient to bar the action, as to the
amount of the sum so attached; and that the demurrer ought therefore to have been overruled.
3. That the judgment by nil dicit, for the six hundred and seventyfive dollars and thirty-nine cents, was erroneous.
The question raised as to the sufficiency of the declaration in a
case where the sufit is by the payee against the maker of a promissory note, never has received the direct decision of this Court. In
the case of the Bank of the United States vs. Smith, (11 Wheat. 172.)
the note upon which the action was founded was made payable at
the office of discount and deposite of the Bank of the United States,
in the city of Washington; and the suit was against the endorser,
and the question turned upon the sufficiency of the averment in the
declaration of a demand of payment of the maker. And the Court
said, when in the body of a note, the place of payment is designatedj the endorser has a right to presume that the maker has provided funds at such place to pay the note ; and has a right to require
the holder to apply at such place for payment. In the opinion delivered in that case, the question now presented' in the case before
us is stated: and it said, whether where the suit is against the maker
of a promissory note, or the acceptor of a bill of exchange, payable at a particular place, it is necessary to aver a demand of payment at such place, and upon the trial to prove such d6mand; is a
question upon which conflicting opinions have been entertained in
the Courts in Westminster Hall. But that the question in such case
may, perhaps, be considered at rest in England, by the decision of
the late case of Rowe vs. Young, (2 Brod. and Bing. 165.) in the
House of Lords; where it was held, that if a bill of exchange be
accepted, payable at a particular place, the declaration on such bill,
against the acceptor, must aver presentment at that place, and the
averment must be proved. But it is there said a contrary opinion
has been entertained by Courts in this country; that a demand on
the maker of a'note, or the acceptor of a bill payable at a specified
place, need not be averred in the declaration or proved on the trial;
that it is not a condition precedent to the plaintiff's right of recovery. As matter of practice, application will generally be made at
the place appointed; if it is believed, that funds have been there
placed to meet the note or bill. But if the maker or acceptor has
sustained any loss by the omission of the holder to make such application for payment, at the place appointed, it is matter of defence
to set up by plea and proof. But it is added, as this question does
not necessarily arise in this case, we do not mean to be understood
as expressing any decided opinion upon it, although we are strongly

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

145

(Wallace vs. M'Connell.)

inclined to think, that as against the maker of a note or the acceptor
of a bill, no 'averment or proof of a demind of payment at the
place designated; would be necessary. The. question now before
the Court cannot, certainly, be considered as decided by the case of
the Bank of the United States vs. Smith. But it cannot be viewed
as the mere obiter opinion of the judge who delivered the judgment
of the Court. The attention of the Court was drawn to the question now before the Court; and the remarks made upon it, and the
authorities referred to, show that this Court was fully apprized-of the
conflicting opinions of the English Courts on the question; and that
opinions, contrary to that of the House of Lords, in the case of Rowe
vs. Young, had been entertained by some of the Courts in this country:
and under this view of the question, the Court say they are strongly
inclined to adopt the American decisions. As the precise question is
now presented by this record, it becomes necessary to dispose of it.
It is not deemed necessary to go into a critical examination
of the English authorities upon this point; a reference to the case
in the House of Lords, which was decided in the year, 1820,
shows the great diversity of opinion entertained by the English
judges upon this question. It was, however, decided that if a bill
of exchange is accepted, payable at a particular place, the declaration in an action on such bill against the acceptor, must aver
presentment at that place, and the averment must be proved. The
Lord Chancellor, in stating the question, said this was a very fit
question to be brought before the House of Lords, because the
state of the law, as actually administered in the Courts, is such, that
it would be infinitely better to settle it in any way than to permit'
so controversial a state to exist. any longer. That the Court of
King's Bench has been of late years in the habit of holding, that
such an acceptance as this, is a general acceptance; and that it is
not necessary to notice it as such in the declaration, or to prove presentment, but that it must be considered as matter of defence; and
that the defendant must state himself ready to pay at the place,
and bring the money into Court, and so bar the action by proving
the truth of that defence. On the contrary, the Court of Common
Pleas was in the habit of holding, that an acceptance like this was
a qualified acceptance, and that the contract of the acceptor was to
pay at the place; and that as matter of pleading, a presentment a
the place stipulatcd must be averred, and that evidence must be
given to sustain t iat averment; and that the holder of the bill
has no cause of action unless such demand has becn made.' In
that case the opir~iou of the twelve judges was taken and laid before the House of Lords, and will be found reported in an appendix
to the report of the case of Rowe vs. Young, (2 Brod. and Bing.
180.) In which opinions all the cases are referred to in which the
question had been drawn into discussion; and the result appears
to have been, that eight judges out of the twelve sustained the doctrine of the King's Bench on this question; notwithstanding which
the judgrr nt was reversed
VOL. XIII -N
19

SUPREME COURT.
[Wallace vs. M'Connell.]

It is fairly to be inferred from an act of parliament passed immediately thereafter, 1 aid 2 G. 4, ch. 78, that this decision was not
satisfactory. By that act it is declared that "after the 1st of August,
1821, if any person shall accept a bill of exchange payable at the
house of a banker or other place, without further expression in his
acceptance, such acceptance shall be deemed and taken to be, to all
intents and purposes, a general acceptance of such bill. But if the
acceptor shall, in his acceptanco, express, that he accepts the bill
payable at a banker's house or other place only, and not otherwise
or elsewhere; such acceptance shall be a qualified acceptance of such
bill; and the acceptor-shall not be liable to pay the bill, except in
default of payment, when such payment shall have been first duly
demanded at such banker's house or other place." Bayley on Bills,
200, note.

In most of the cases which have arisen in the English Courts, the
suit has been against the acceptor of the bill; and in some cases a
distinction would seem to be made between such a case, and that
of a note when the action is against the maker, and the designated
place -is
in the body of the note. But there can be no solid grounds
upon which such a distinction can rest. The acceptor of a bill stands
in. the same relation to the drawee, as the maker of a note does to the
payee; and the acceptor is the principal debtor, in the case of a bill,
precisely like the maker of a note. The liability of the acceptor
grows out of, and is-to be governed by the terms of his acceptance,
and the liability of the maker.of a note grows out of, and is to be
governed by the terms of his note ;-and the place of payment can be
of no more importance in the one case than in the other. And in
some of the cases where the point was made9 the action was against
the maker of a promissory note, and the place of payment designated in the body of the note. The case of Nichols vs. Bowes, 2
Canip. 498, was one of that description, decided in the year 1810;
and it was contended on the trial, that the plaintiff was bound to
show that the note was presented at the banking house where it
was made payable. But Lord Ellenborough, before whom the
cause was tried, not only decided that no. such proof was necessary,
but would not suffer such evidence to be given; although the counsel for the plaintiff said he had a witness in Court to prove the note
was presented at the banker's the day it became-due: his Lordship
alleging that he was afraid to admit such evidence, lest doubts should
arise as to its nccesty. And in the case of Wild vs. Renwards, 1
Camp. 425, no, Mr. Justice Bayley, in the year 1809, ruled that if
a promissory note is made payable at a particular place, in an action
again# the maker, there is no necessity for nroing that, it was presented there for payment.
The case of Saunderson vs. Bowes,. 14 East, 500, decided in the
King's Bench in the year 1811, is somet mes referred to as containing a different rule of construction of the same words when used in
the body of a promissory notefrom that which is given to them
when used in the acceptance of a bill of exchange. But it may be

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

147

[Wallace vs. M'Connell.]

well questioned, whether this use warrants any such conclusion.
That was an action on a promissory note by the bearer against the
maker. The note, as set out in the declaration, was a promise to.
pay on demand at a specified place, and there was no averment that
a demand of payment had been made at the place designated. To
which declaration the defendant demurred; and the counsel in support of the demurrer referred to cases where the rule had been applied to acceptances on bills of exchange; but cintended that the
rule did not apply to a promissory note, when the place is designated
in the body of the note. Lord Ellenborough, in the course of the
argument, in answer to some cases referred to by counsel, observed;
those are cases where money is to be paid, or something to be done
at a particular time as well as place, therefore the party (defendant)
may readily make an averment, that he was ready at the time and
place to pay, and that the other party was not ready to receive it ;but here the time of payment depends entirely on the pleasure of the
holder of the note. It is true Lord Ellenborough did not seem to.
place his opinion, in the ultimate decision of the cause, upon this
ground. But the other judges did not allude to the distinction taken
at the bar between 'hat case anid the acceptance of a bill in like
terms; but placed their opinions upon the terms of the note itself,
being it promise to pay on demand at a particular place. And there
is certainly a manifest distinction between a promise to pay on demand, at a given place, and a promise to pay at a fixed time at such
place. And it is hardly to be presumed that Lord Ellenborough
intended to rest his judgment upon a distinction between a promissory note and a bill of exchange, as both he and Mr. Justice Bayley
had a very short time before, in the cases of Nichols vs. Bowes, and
Wild vs. Renwards, above referred to, applied-the same rule of construction to promissory notes where -the promise was contained in
the body of the note. Where the promise is to pay on demand at a
particular place, there is no cause of action until the demand is made;
and the maker of the note cannot discharge himself by an offer of
payment, the note not being due until demanded.
Thus we see that until the late decision in the House of Lords in.
the case of Rowe vs. Young, and the act of parliament passed soon
thereafter, this question was in a very unsettled state in the English
Courts; and without undertaking to decide between those conflictingi
opinions, it may be well to look at the, light iiA which this question
has been viewed in the Courts in this country.
This question came before the Supreme Court of the state of New
York, in the year 1809, in the case of Foden and Slater vs. Sharp,
4 Johns. Rep. 183; and the Court said the holder of a bill of exchange
need not show a demand of payment'of the acceptor, any more than
of the maker of a note. It is the business of the acceptor to show
that he was ready Lt the day and place appointed, but that no one
came to receive the money; and that he was always ready afterwards
to pay. This case shows that the acceptor of a bill, and the maker
of a note, were considered a standing on the same footing with re-

148

SUPREME COURT.
[Wallace vs. MIConnell.]

spect to a demand of payment at the place designated. And in the
case of Wolcott vs. Van Santvoord, 17 Johns. Rep. 248, which came
before the same Court in the year 1819, the same question arose. The
action was against the acceptor of a bill, payable five months after date
at the Bank of Utica, and the declaration contained no averment of a demand at the Bank of Utica; and upon a demurrer to the declaration,
the Court gave judgment for the plaintiff. Chief Justice Spencer,
in delivering the opinion 6f the Court, observed that the question
had been already decided in the case of Foden vs. Sharp: but considering the great diversity of opinion among the judges in the English Courts on the question, he took occasion critically to review the
cases which had come before those Courts, and shows very satisfactorily, that the weight of authority is in conformity to that decision,
and the demurrer was accordingly overruled; and the law in that
state for the last thirty years, has been considered as settled upon
this point. And .although the action was against the acceptor of a
bill of exckange, it is very evident that this circumstance had no
influence upon the decision; for the Court say that in this respect
the acceptor stands in the same relation to the payee, as the maker of a
note does tothe indorsee. He is the principal, and not a collateral debtor.
And in the case of Caldwell vs. Cassady, 8 Cowen, 271, decided in
the same Court in. the year 1828, the suit was upon a promissory
note payable sixty' dais after date at the Franklin Bank in New
York; and the note had not been presented or payment demanded
at the bank: the -Court said, this case has been already decided by
this Court in the case of Wolcott vs. Van Santvoord. And after
noticing some of the cases in the English Courts, and alluding to the
confusion that seemed to exist there upon'the question, they add:
that whatever be the rule in other Courts, the rule in this Court
must be considered settled, that where a promissory note is made
payable at a particular place on a day certain, the holder of the note
is not bound to make a demand at the time and place by way of a
condition precedent to the bringing an action against the maker.
But if the maker was ready to pay at the time and place, he may
plead it, as he would plead a tender in bar of damages and costs, by
bringing the money into Court.
It is not deemed necessary to notice very much at length the various cases that have arisen in the American Courts upon this question; but barely to refer to such as have fallen under the observation of the Court, and we briefly state the point and decision
thereupon, and the result will show a uniform course of adjudication,
that in actions on promissory notes against the maker, or on bills of
exchange, where the suit is against the maker in the one case, and
acceptor in the other, and the note or bill made payable at a specified
time and place, it is not necessary to aver in the declaration, or prove
on the trial, that, a demand of payment was 'made in order to maintain the action. But that if the maker or acceptor was at the place
at the time designated, and was ready and offered to pay the money,
it wa4 inatter of defence to be pleaded and proved on his part.

JANUARY TERM, 1839.
149
,Wallace vs. M'Connell.]
The case of Watkins vs. Crouch and Co., in the Court of Appeals
of Virginia, 5 Leigh, 522, wAas a suit, against the maker and
endorser, jointly, as is the course in that state upon a promissory
note like the one in suit.. The note was made payable at a specified
time, at the Farmers' Bank, at Richmond, and the Court of Appeals,
in the year 1834, decided, that it was ntyt necessary to aver and
prove a presentation at the bank and demand of payment in order
to entitle the plaintiff to recover against, the maker; but that it was
necessary in order to entitle him to recover against thq endorser: ahd
the President of the Court went into a very elaborate consideration
of the decisions of the English Courts upon the question; and to
show, that upon common law principles, applicable to bonds, notes,
and other contracts for the payment of money, no previous demand
was necessary in order to sustain the action, but that a tender and
readiness to pay must come by way of defence from the defendant;
and that looking upon the note as commercial paper, the principles
of the common law were clearly against the necessity of such demand
and proof, where the time and place were specified, though it would
be otherwise where, the place, but nbt the time was specified; a demand in such case ought to be made: and he exained the case of
Sanderson vs. Bowes, to show that it turned upon that distinction,
the note being payable on demand at a specified place. The same
doctrine was held by the Court of Appeals of Maryland in the case
of Bowie, vs. Duvall, .1Gill and Johnson, 175; and the New York
cases, as well as that of the: Bank of the United States vs. Smith, 11
Wheat. 171, are cited with approbation, and, fully adopted; and the
Court put the case upon the broad ground, that 'when the suit is
against the maker of a promissory note,,ayable at a specified time
and place, no demand is necessary,to be averred, upon the principle
that the money to-bepaid is a debt from the defendant, that it is
due generally and-universally, and will continue dub, though there
be a neglect on the part oft the creditor to attend at the time and
place to receive or demand it.! That it is matter of defence on the
part of the defendant to show that he was in attendance lo pay, but
that the plaintiff was not there to receive it; which defence generally
will be in bar of damages only, and not in -brof the debt. The
case of Ruggles vs. Patton, 8 Mass. Rep. 480, sanctions the same rule
of construction. The action was on a promissory note for the payment of money, at a-day and place specified; and ,the defendant
pleaded that he was present at the time and place, and ready and
willing to pay according to the tenor of his promises, in the second
count of the declaration, mentioned, and avers that the plaintiff was
not then ready or present at the bank to receive, payment, and did
not demand the same of the defendant, as the plaintiff in his declaration had alleged: the Court said this was an immaterial issue and
no bar to an action or promise to pay money.
So also in the state of New Jersey the same rule is adopted. In
the case of Weed vs. Houten, 4 Halst. N. J. Rep. 189, the Chief
Justice says:, "The question is whether in an action. by the payee of

150

SUPREME COURT.
[Wallace v8, M'Connell.]

a promissory note payabis at a particular place and not on demand,
but at time, it is necessnry to aver i presentment of the note and
demand of payment by the holder at that place, at the maturity of
the note. And upon this question he says, I have no hesitation in
expressing my entire concurrence in the American decisions, so far
as is necessary for the 15resent occasion; that a special averment
of presentment at the place, is not necessary to the validity of the
declaration, nor is proof of it necessary upon the trial. This rule I
am satisfied, is most conformable to sound reason, most conducive to
public convenience, best supported by the general principles and
doctrines of the law, and most assimulated to the decisions, which
bear analogy more or less directly to the subject.'
The same rule has been fully established by the Supreme Court of
Tennessee, in the cases of M'Nairy vs. Bell, and Mulhovin vs. Hannum,
1 Yerger, Rep. 502, and 2 Yerger, Rep. 81, and the rule sustained
and enforced upon the same principles and course of reasoning
upon which the other cases referred to have been placed. And no
case, in an American Court, has fallen under our notice, where a
contrary doctrine has been asserted and maintained. And it is to
be observed, that riost of the cases which have arisen in this country, where this question has been drawn into discussion, were upon
promissory notes, where the place of payment was, of course, in
the body of the note. After such a uniform course of decisions for
at least thirty years, it would be ivsexpedient to change the rule,
even if the grounds upon which it was originally established might'
be questionable; which, however, we do not mean to intimate. It
is of the utmost importance, that all rules relating to commercial
law should be stable and uniform. They are adopted for practical
purposes, to regulate the course of business in commercial transactions; and the rule here established is well calculated for the convenience and safety of all parties.
The place of payment in a promissory note, or in an acceptance
of a hi of exchange, is always matter of arrangement between
the parties for their mutual accommodation, and may be stipulated
in any manner that may best suit their convenience. And
when a note or bill is made payable at a bank, as is generally
the case, it is well known that, according to the usual course of
business, the note or bill is lodged at the bank for collection;
and if the maker or acceptor calls to take it up when it falls
due, it will be delivered to him, and the business is closed. But
should he not find his note or bill at the bank, he can deposit his
money to meet the note when presented, and should he be afterwards prosecuted, he would be exonerated from all costs and damages, upon proving such tender and deposite. Or should the note or
bill be made payable at some place other than a bank, aud no deposite
could be made, or he should choose to retain his money- in his own
possession, an offer to pay at the time and place, would protect him
against interest and Posts, on bringing the money into Court; so
that no practical inconvenience or hazard can result from the esth-

JANUARY TF RM, 1839.

151

[Wallace vs. M'Connell.]

blishment of this rule, to the maker or acceiltor. But, on the other
hand, if a presentment of the note and dega .nd of payment at the
time and place, are indispensable to the right of action, the holder
might hazard the entire loss of his whole debt.
The next point presents the question as to the effect and operation of the proceedings under the attachment law of Alabama, as
disclosed by the plea puis darien continuance. The plea shows that
the proceedings on the attachment were instituted after the commencement of this suit. The jurisdiction of the District Court of
the United States, and the right of the plaintill to prosecute his suit
in that Court, having attached, that right could not be krrested or
taken away by any proceedings in another Court. This-would produce a collision in the jurisdiction of Courts, that would extremely
embarrass the administration of justice. If the attachment had
been conducted to a conclusion, and the money recovered of the defendant before the commencement of the present suit, there can be
no doubt that it might have been set up as a payment upon the note
in question. And if the defendant would have been protected pro
tanto, under a recovery had by virtue of the attachment, and could
have pleaded such recovery, in bar, the same principle would support a plea in abatement, of an attachment pending prior to the
commencement of the present suit. The attachment of the debt,
in such case, in the hands of the defendant, would fix it there in
favour of the attaching creditor, and the defeidant could not after-.
wards pay it o-ver to the plaintiff. The attaching creditor would, in
such case, require a lien upon the debt, binding upon the defendant,
and which the Courts of all other governments, if they recognise
such proceedings at all, could not fail to regard. If-this doctrine be
well founded, the priority of suit will determine the right. The
rule must be reciprocal; and where the suit in one Court is commenced prior to the institution of proceedings. under attachment in
another Court, such proceedings cannot arrest the suit; and the
maxim qui prior est tempore,.portior est jure, must govern the case.
This is the doctrine of this Court in the case of Renner and Bussard
vs. Marshall, 1 Wheat. 216, and also in the case of Beaston vs.
The Farmers' Bank of Maryland,_-12 Peters, 102; and is in conformity with the rule that prevails in other Courts in this country
as well as in the English Courts ; and is essential to the protection
of the rights of the garnishee; and will aVoid all pollisions in the
proceedings of different Courts, having the same subject matter before them. 5John. Rep. 100. .9 John. Rep. 221, and the cases there
cited. In the case now before the Court, the suit was commenced
prior to the institution of proceedings under the attachment. The
plea was, therefore, bad, and the demurrer properly sustained.
The remaining inquiry is, whether the judgment, by nil dicit, for
the $675, was properly given, after overruling the plea puis darien
continuance. The argument at the bar was, that as the attachment
went only to a part of the debt, the case stood as to the residue upon
the oxiginal plea of payment. The facts disclosed in the plea, puis

SUPREME COURT.
(Wallace vs. M'Connell.]

darien continuance, do not raise the question intended to be presented; for the defence set up in the plea puis darien continuance
goes to the whole cause of action, and leaves no part unanswered.
And it may well be questioned, whether such pleading ought to be
sanctioned, even if the plea, puis darien continuance, went only to
a part of the cause of a~tion. It would introduce great confusion
on the record in the state of the pleadings.
It is laid down in Bacon's Abridgment, (6 Bac. Ab. by Gwillim,
377,) that if after a plea in 'bar, the defendant pleads a plea puis
darien conti'nuance, this is a waiver of his bar, and no advantage
shall be taken of any thing in the bar. And it is added, that it
seems dangerous to plead any matter puis darien continuance unless
you be well advised, because, if that matter be determined against
you, it is a confession of the matter in issue. This rule was adopted
in Kimball -vs. Huntington, 10 Wendall, 679. The Court say,
the plea puis darien continuance waived all previous pleas, and on
the record, the cause of action was admitted to the same extent as
if no other'defence had been urged than that contained in this plea,.
In. the case now before the Court, the oath of the defendant
taken in the proceedings op the attachment, is made a part of the
plea puis darien continuance. And he admits that he executed the
note on which this suit is brought, for $4880. That he had paid
on the note $372 34 ; and that the remainder of.'the note was due
by.him to the plaintiff. And if the $4204 attached could not be
dedueted, the whole debt, according to his own admission, was due,
except the $372 34, set up by him to have been paid; and the plaintiff remits upon the record $351 28, and the judgment will stand
within a few dollars for the amount admitted by the defendant to
be due. And this difference must arise from some error in the mere
calculation, and may easily be corrected.
The judgment of the Court below is accordingly affirmed, with
costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideratipn
whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the said District Court, in this cause be, and the same is
hereby, affirmed, with costs and damages at the rate of six per cent.
per annum.

