JA NUARY TERM, 1839.

M ERIWETHER L.

CLARK, EXECUTOR, AND WILLIAM P.

195

CLARK,

GEORGE R. H. CLARK, AND JEFFERSON KENNERLX CLARk, AN
INFANT UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY-ONE YEARS BY HI. GrUARDIAN AD LITEM AND NEXT FRIEND, THE SAID GEORGE R. H.
CLARK, HEIRS AT LAW OF WILLIAM CLARK DECEASED, APPELLANTS, VS. ANDREW SMITH, APPELLEE.
The colonial charters, a great portion of the individual grants by the proprietary and royal
governments, and a still greater portion by the states of the Union after the Revolution,
were made for lands within the Indian hunting grounds. North Carolina and Virginia,
to a great extent, paid their officers and soldiers of the revolutibnary war by such grants,
and extinguished the arrears due the army by similar means. It was one of the great resources which sustained the war, not only by those states, but by other states. The
ultimate fee, encumbered with the right of Indian occupancy, was in the crown previous
to the Revolution, and in the states of the Union afterwards, ahd subject to grant. This
right of occupancy was protected by the political power, and respected by the Courts,
until extinguished, when the patentee took the unencumbered fee. So this Court and
the state Courts have uniformly held.
The state of Kentucky has an undoubted power to regulate and protect individual rights to
her soil, and to declare what shall form a cloud on titles; and having so declared, the
Courts of the United States, by removing such cloud, are ouly applying an old practice
to a new equity created by the legislature, having its origin in the peculiar condition of
the country. The unappropriated lands of the state 8f Kentucky have been opened to.
entry and grant, at a very cheap rate, which policy has let in abuses. The clouds upon
old titles by the issuance of new patents for the same lands were the consequence; and
the citizens of other states are entitled to come into the Courts of the United States, to
have their rights secured to them by the statute of Kentucky of 1796.
The state of Kentucky may prescribe any policy for the protection of the agriculture of the
country, that she may deem wise and proper. She has, in effect, declared that junior
patents issued for previously granted lands, shall be delivered up and cancelled; with
the addition, that a release of title shall be executed ; and it is the duty of the Courts to
execute the policy.
Where the legislature declares certain instruments illegal and void, there is inherent in the
Courts of equity a jurisdiction to order them to be delivered up, and thereby give effect
to the policy of the legislature.
The state legislatures have, certainly, o authority tp prescribe the forms or modes of proceeding in the Courts of the United States; but having created a right, and at the same
time prescribed the remedy to enforce it, if the remedy prescribed is substantially' consistent with the ordinary modes of proceeding on the chancery side of the Federal
Courts, no reason exists why it should not be pursued in the same form as in the State
Courts. On the contrary, propr'cty and convenience suggest that the practice should
not materially differ when titles to land are the subjects of investigation.
In the state of Tennessee the legislature has provided that the Courts of equity may divest
a title, and vest it in another'party to a suit; and that the decree shall operate as a legal
conveyance. In Kentucky the legislature has declared that Courts may appoint a commissioner to convey, as attorney in fact of litigant parties, and such'shall pass the title;
in both instances binding infants and femes coverts if necessary. The Federal Courts
of the United S:ates, in the instances referred to, have adopted the same practice. for
many years, without a doubt having been entertained of its propriety. It may be said,
with truth, that it is a mode of conveyance, and of passing title, which the states have
the exclusive right to regulate.
The undoubted truth is, that when investigating and decreeing on titles in this country,
the Court must deal with them in practice as it finds them, and accommodate our modes
of proceeding in a considerable degree to the nature of the case, and to the character of
the equities involved in the controversy, so as to give effect to state legislation, and state
policy ; not departing howeer from what legitimately belongs to the practice of a Court
9f Chancery.

196

SUPREME COURT.
(Clark et al.
vs. Smith.]

ON appeal from the Circuit Court of the •United States for the
district of Kentucky.
William Clark, the father of the appellants, filed a bill in the
Circuit Court of the district of Kentucky, praying the Court to compel the defendant to release his pretended title to certain lands in
the state of Kentucky, claimed by him under certain patents obtained from the state of Kentucky, more than thirty years after the
registration of the survey of the ancestor of the complainants, George
Rogers Clark. The possession of the land had continued in the ancestor of the complainant, and in himself, up to the time of the filing
of the bill. The conveyance asked by the bill was sought to be in
conformity with the provisions of the act of the assembly of Kentucky giving jurisdiction to Courts of Equity in such cases.
The Circuit Court was unanimously of opinion that the complainants had established the legal title to the land mentioned in the bill,
under a valid grant from the commonwealth of Kentucky, to George
Rogers. Clark, his ancestor, and that he was in possession of the
same at the commencement of this suit; and that the defendant had
not shown that he had any right or title, either in law or equity, to
the land or any part of it: but the judges of the Circuit Court being
divided in opinion on the question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, to compel the defendant to execute the conveyance prayed
for in the bill, it was not the opinion of the Court (the defendant
having set up and exhibited junior patents from the commonwealth.
of Kentuckyfor the landto himself) that on anyother ground apparent
in the cause, the Circuit Court had jurisdiction, on the general principles which determine the equity jurisdiction of the Courts of the
United States, to grant to the complainants, any other relief. The
bill of the complainants was dismissed; and they prosecuted this
appeal
A printed argument was submitted to the Court by Mr. Crittenden for the appellants. No counsel appeared for the defendant.
The argument of Mr. Crittenden stated:This is a suit in chancery, under the 29th see-on of the act of
1796', (Ken. Stat. Law, 293,) to compel the defendant to release his
pretended claim to the land in question. The complainant derives title
as follows, to wit: Patent to George Rogers Clark, dated 15th September, 1795, founded on an entry on treasury warrants, made 26th
October, 1780, "to begin on the Ohio, at the mouth of the Tennessee river, running down the Ohio," &c. &c., surveyed June 7th,
-1784, and registered June 4th, 1785;.the survey and patent being
for 36,962 acres. The patented George Rogers Clark, afterwards
conveyed to William Clark, by deed dated 28th July, 1803, proved
and recorded in the Cohrt of Appeals in November, 1803.
At the suit of a creditor of he said patentee, the same tract of
land, after the deed to William Clark, was subjected to sale, for
satisfaction of the creditor's demand, and was then again purchased
by George Woc~folk, to whom the, commissioner of the Court

SANUARY TERM, 1839.

197

[Clark et al. s. Smith.]
.(Samuel Dickinson) conveyed it by deed. of the 14th June, 1827;
and Woolfolk, by deed of the lath October, 1827, conveyed to the
said William Clark.
William Clark, thus doubly invested with assurance of title, and
alleging possession of the land, filed 'his bill to compel a release of
the defendant's pretended claims.
The defendant, by his answer, contests Clarks title on various
grounds, and asserts his own claims, which are nothing more than
ninepenny claims, originating within a few years past, by entries
and purchases made with and of the public receiver, under the
laws of Kentucky for the disposal of the lands of the state below
the Tennessee river.
The documentary evidence establishes, beyond question, the legal
title of the complainant. His possession isnot denied by the answer,'
is fully proved by the depositions, and is incontestable.,
The origin of the defendant's pretended claims was between
thirty and forty years after the date of Clark's patent, and about
half a century after Clark's survey was registered in the proper
office of the state of Virginia, from whose laws his title originally
emanated.
Here the case ends. It is necessary to look no further to embrace
its whole merits as a legal controversy; and the conclusion is clear
and obvious in favour of the complainant, both on general principles,
and on the terms of the act of Assembly under which the bill is filed.
In accordance with this are the cases of Starling, &c. vs. Hardin, 2
Bibb. 522 ; and Loftus vs. Cates, I Monroe, 98 ; in the first of which
it is expressly said that, in a contest with those who have no title
originating anterior to the patent, no other evidence of title than the
patent need be produced.
But the defendant has gone altogether beyond those limits, and
proposes to litigate questions that, in our opinion, do not, belong to
or arise in the case. He contends that the land was not subject to
appropriation by Clark's warrants at the date of his entry, and that,
therefore, his claim is null and void.
It will not be denied that the land in question was within the ter,ritorial limits of the state of Virginia, until the separation of Kentricky placed it under the jurisdiction of the latter state. Virginia
had, then, the right to dispose of it according to her policy or pleasure.
By the act of 1779 (1 Litt. 408) her whole unappropriated territory was thrown open for individual appropriation by treasury
warrants, with these only exceptions: that "no entry or location
shall be admitted within the country and limits of the Cherokee Indians, or on the north-west side of the Ohio river, or on the lands
reserved by act of Assembly for any particular nation or tribe of
Indians, or on the lands granted by law to Richard Henderson an
Co., or in that tract of country reserved by resolution of the General
Assembly for tlie benefit of the troops serving in the present war,
and bounded by the Green river, and south-east coast, from the head
it2

198

SUPREME COURT.
[Clark et al. vs. Smith.]

thereof to the Cumberland mountains, with said mountains to the
Carolina line, with the Carolina line to the Cherokee or Tennessee
river, with the said river to the Ohio river, and with the Ohio to the
said Green river, until the further order of the General Assembly."
This was the only restriction upon Clark's right to locate his warrants anywhere within the territorial limits of Virginia. His entries
were made below the Tennessee river, and in the year 1780. They
did not include any part of the excepted territories. Most clearly
they did not interfere with the military reserve. It is true, that after
Clark's entries at the November session, 1781, (1 Litt. 432,) the Virginia Legislature enlarged the military reserve, by adding to it the

country below the Tennessee, including the land now in suit. But
it will scarcely be contended that this act could affect, or was intended to affect, the previously acquired and vested rights of Clark;
while it clearly shows that the legislature considered itself as having
fuall power to dispose of this additiopal reserve; and that without
this reservation the land would have been, and before it was, subject to individual appropriation. The only purpose of the reservation was to exempt it from such appropriation, to which it was then
liable.
The decision in the case of the Superintending Officers vs. Clark,
Hughes's Repts. 39, is a direct adjudication that the land was subject to appropriation by Clark's entries.
Neither in 1779, nor at any time since, has either the government
of the United States, or Virginia, or 'Kentucky, ever recognised the
land now in suit as embraced either by the limits of the Cherokee
Indians, or within the limits of any reservation made by any act of
Assembly, for any nation or Xribe of Indians. At least, we know
of no such recognition. Let the defendant show it. The treaties
with the Cherokee Indians show that they were never considered as
owning the country where this land-lies. (See those treaties, 1 vol.
Laws of. the United States, 322, et seq.) On the contraryy the
Indian title to the country below the Tennessee river was supposed
to be extinguished by the treaty of'1818, made with the Chickasaw
Indians, by Shelby and Jackson, as commissioners.
And, in several acts of the Kentucky legislature, Stat. Law, 1040
and 915, the country below the Tennessee is recognised as land that
was within the" Chickasaw Indian boundary."
The land in question certainly does not lie within Henderson's grant, which is at the
mouth of Green river.
Upon the whole, we conclude that Clark's claims, at the date of
their location, in 1780, were not within any of the limits or territories exempted and excepted from appropriation by the act of 1779;
and, consequently, that the land in question was legally subject to
appropriation, and was legally appropriated by Clark's entries.
But suppose those entries, and survey or surveys, were made
without sanction of law, and upon lands excepted or reserved from
appropriation by them, was it not competent for Virginia aid Kenucky, the successive sovereign owners of the country, to waive any

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

199

[Clark et al. vs. Smith.]

objection to such irregularities? And when afterwards the title,
however irregular in its inception and progress, was consummated,
by patent from the state; is not that, at least, prima facie evidence
of such waiver on the part of the state, and is it not conclusive upon
all persons subsequently acquiring title from the state ? To us it
seems that all these questions must be answered in the -affirmative.
There are numerous decisions by the Court
of Appeals of Kentucky, that certificates for land, granted by commissioners or by
county Courts, are conclusive upon the state, and upon all parties
subsequently acquiring a claim from the state; and that such subsequent claimants cannot impeach or'inquire into the prior certificates. These decisions seem to have a decided bearing upon the
present case; and the principle of them must equally exclude the defendant from questioning or impeaching the patent under which the
complainant claims. The decisions alluded to are so numerous and
well known that it would be idle parade to cite them: it is a well
settled doctrine, too, that one claiming under an entry, &c. originating subsequent to a patent on the same land, cannot avail himself
of any defect or irregularity in the entry or survey of the prior patentee. Ward and Kentoa vs. Lee and Orr, I Bibb, 33; Fitche"s
devisees vs. Bullock, 1 Blibb, 229; and in Hardin's Reports, Greenup
vs. Kenton, 15 ; Patterson vs. Bradford, 105 ; and Jasper vs. Quarles,
469, &c.
But if all these analogies, principles, and precedents should fail us,
we contend that the legislative authority has sanctioned and made
good th3 survey of Clark, whatever defect or objection previously
existed in or to it, or the entry on which it was founded.
It will be seen, by the register's certificate, that the survey was
registered "in the register's office of Virginia," at the time of, and
before, the separation of Kentucky from that state. By the act of
1794, it was enacted by the legislature of Kentucky, "that the -register of this state shall receive and issue grants on all certificates of
survey which were in the register's office of Virginia at the time
the separation twok place, and on which grants have not issued."
Stat. Law, 910.

Acting in the same spirit of sound policy and good faith towards
Virginia claimants, this state, in the year 1811, enacted that all claims,
founded on the laws of this commonwealth, which interfered with
"any survey or grant, surveyed or granted under or by virtue of
any law of Virginia, &c., shall be void," &c. Stat. Law, 915. See,
also, the act of 1792, 1 Litt. 75. 159.
Clark's survey comes completely within the protection and ratification conferred by these statutes.
If a distinction be attempted between the claim of the defendant
and claims on Virginia treasury warrants, on the ground that the
latter were expressly confined to "unappropriated land," it is anQ-ered, first, that these words are mere expletives, used out of
atbundant caution, and that the construction must have been the same,

20

SUPREME COURT.
vs. Smith,]
LClark et al.

if these words had not been used; second, that the ground of the distinction does not, in fact, exist; the act of 1825, sec. 2, p. 1054, Stat.
Law, authorizing the receiver to expose to sale only the "unappro.
priated sections," &c. It is inferred, therefore, that it could not,
have been intended that purchases by private entries should have
been made of any but " unappropriated sections." The whole
country had been sectionized, and it was well known to, and recognised by the legislature that much of it had been appropriated;
and it is but common respect to its justice to suppose that it designed
this as an express and abundantly cautious saving of all individual
rights and claims.
Upon the hearing of the cause in the Court below, the Court, both
judges concurring, were of opinion that the complainant, Clark, had
the legal title to the land in question, and was in the actual possession thereof at the commencement of this suit; and yet the Court refubed to decree the defendant to relinquish his pretended claim,
because of a division of opinion with the judges, as to the jurisdiction of the Court. One of the judges was of opinion th it,
although
the case came completely within the provisions of the act of Assembly
of Kentucky, giving jurisdiction to Courts of equity in such cases,
still that the federal Court could not exercise that jurisdiction; that
its jurisdiction was limited by the "general principles" of the equity
jurisdiction of the Courts of the United States; and that the case not
being embraced by those general principles, the Court could not exercise a jurisdiction created by an act of Assembly of Kentucky. In
consequence of this division of opinionthe complainant's bill was
dismissed; and he has'appealed to this Court, and will insist that the
Circuit Court had- jurisdiction, of the case, and ought to have exercised it by decreeing in favour of the complainant, and that it erred
in dismissing his bill. 7 Peters, 542.
Mr. Justice .CAThON delivered the opinion of the Court.

By patent of the 15th September, 1795, there vas granted to
George Rogers Clark, by the commonwealth of Kentucky, 36,962
acres of land, beginning on the Ohio river, at, the mouth of the Thnnssee; running south 160, east 1280 poles, north 74' , west 3840
poles, north 160, east 1800 poles, to the bank of the Ohio, about thiee
miles below Fort Massac; thence running up the Ohio, with. its
several meanders 4480 poles to the beginning.
The patent is in conformity to a survey of 7th June, 1784, returned to the land office of Virginia; founded on an entry, and an
amendment .thereof,,dated 17th May, and 26th of October, 1780;
made by virtue of various treasury warrants. The entry having
been for 71,962 acres, with liberty to return one or more surveys.
The identity of the land, is entered, surveyed, and patented, is
established beyond doubt, as the survey made by order. of the
Court below, represents it.
William Clark, the complainant, by various W~esne conveyances,
became the owner in fee ef the same;, and, by his tenanti bas

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

201

[Clark et al. vs. Smith.]

been iU possession from 1819, up to the time of filing the bill: the
claim of the Chickasaw Indians, having been extinguished to the
country where the land lies, by the treaty of the 19th of October,
1818; to which time the right of possession was necessarily suspended.
The first exception taken by the answer is, that the patent was
made for lands lying within a country claimed by Indians;, and,
therefore, void.
To which it may be answered, that the colonial charters, a great
portion of the individual grants by the proprietary and royal
governments, and a still greater portion by the states of this Union
after the Revoliltion, were made for lands within the Indian hunting
grounds. North Carolina, and Virginia, to a great extent, paid
their officers and soldiers of the revolutionary war, by such grants;
and extinguished the arrears due the army by similar means. It
was one of the great resources that sustained the war, not only by
these states but others. The ultimate fee (encumbered with the
Indian right of occupancy) was in the crown previous to the Revolution, and in 'the states of the Union afterwards, and subject to
grant. This right of occupancy was protected by the political
power, and respected by the Courts until extinguished; when the
patentee took the unencumbered fee. So this Court, and the state
Courts, have uniformly, and, often, holden. 6 Cranch, 87. 9
Cranch,
By the11.
act of November, 1781, Virginia opened the whole country south of the Tennessee river, for the satisfaction of military.
claims, and excluded the location of treasury warrants; and the
officers and soldiers, through their superintendents, Thomas Marshall and others, caveated George Rogers Clark's claim, praying no
grant might issue to him for the 36,932 acres. The caveat was
filed in the Supreme Court of the district of Kentucky; but because
the judges were interested in the event, the suit was transferred,
pursuant to an act of Assembly, to the Court of Appeals. of Virginia, where it was pending from 1786 to 1791 ; when that Court,
amongst other things, held, "that the dormant title of the Indian
tribes remained to be extinguished by the government, either by:
purchase or conquest; and when that was done, it enured to the
benefit of the citizens who had previously acquired a title from the
crown, and did not authorize a new grant of the lands, as waste
and unappropriated." And the state having succeeded to the, royal
rights, could, appropriate the waste lands within her chartered limits
in the same manner.
2. That by the act of 1779, the, lands south of Tennessee river,
were subject. to be located by treasury warrants ; and that the act
of 1781, for the. benefit of the officers and soldiers, could not have
a retrospective operation so as to defeat General Clark's prior entry,
made according to the existing laws.
The opinion having been'returned to the Court of Appeal of Kentucky, at the October term thereof, 1793, the caveat was dismissed;
26

202

SUPREME COURT.
[Clark et al. vs. Smith.1

and' in September, 1795, General Clark obtained his patent.
Hughes' Kentucky Reports, 39.
The validity of the title of the complainant, is, therefore, not now
open to controversy on these grounds; and such was the opinion
of the Circuit Court. But that' Court being divided in opinion on
the question of jurisdiction, no decree could be made, iu conformity
to the prayer of the bill, and which was disaiissed for this reason.
It seeks to enforce the act of Kentucky of 1796, which provides,
that "any person havi :g both legal title to and possession of land,
may institute a suit against any other person setting up a claim
thereto; and if the complainant shall be able to establish his title
to such land, the defendant shall be decreed to release his claim
thereto, and pay the complainant his costs, unless the defendant
shall by answer disclaim all title to such lands, and offer to give
such release to the complainant: in which case, the complainant
shall pay to the defendant his costs, except for special reasons appearing, the Court should otherwise decree."
The foregoing extract is the twenty-ninth section of an act professedly regulating proceedings in the Courts "- hancery.
Conflicts of title were unfortunately so numerous that no one
knew from whom to buy or take lands .with safety; nor could improvements be made -without great hazard, by those in possession,
who had conflicting claims hanging over them; and which might
thus continue for half a century-the writ of right being limited to
fifty years in some cases; that is, where it was brought upon the
seisin of an ancestor, or predecessor, and to thirty years, if on the
demandant's own seisin. Act of January 1796. During all which
time, the party in possession had no power to litigate, much less to
settle the title at law; for he might be harrassed by many actions
of ejectment, and his peace and property destroyed, although
always successful; by no means an uncommon occurrence. This
evil, it was the object and policy of the legislature to cure; not so
much by prescribing a mode of proceeding, as by conferring a right
on him who had the better title, and the possession, to draw to him
the outstanding inferior claims. It is, in effect, declared that the
junior claimant shall be deemed to hold a trustee for him in possession, and be compelled to release his inferior title by a conveyance, so that the junior patent, for instance, could not be perfected
by possession, and the lapse of time into the better right, (by force
of the acts of limitation;) now reduced in Kentucky, in such cases,
to a seven years' adverse holding. The junior patent, as between
the state and the grantee is a valid title; and if in this instance,
Smith were to hold adverse possession of any one of his thirty-two
tracts, for seven years, he would have the better legal title: and if
the grants of Smith are released to Clark, a holding by him. in
virtue of the release, would have the same effect.
The legislature having declared that he who has the legal and
equitable title, and the possession, may treat the adverse claimant
as a trustee, and coerce a release to himself of the infeVor, elaim;

JANUARY TERM, 1839

203

(Clark et al. vs. Smith.]

of course the statute secures a highly valuable right; which it is
the duty of the Courts to enforce, and which can only be enforced in
a Court of Equity.
Kentucky has the undoubted power to regulate and protect individual rights to her soil, and to declare what shall form a cloud on
titles; and having so declared, the Courts of the United States,
by removing such clouds, are only applying an old practice to a
new equity created by the legislature, having its origin in the peculiar condition of the country. The unappropriated lands of that
state have been opened to entry and grant at a very cheap rate, as
this record shows; which policy has let in the abuse, sought to be
remedied by the bill. That clouds upon old titles, by the issuance
of new patents for the same lands, would be the consequence, was
manifest; and that citizens of other states are entitled to come into
the Courts of the United States, to have the rights secured to them
by the statute of 1796, enforced, we cannot doubt.
But we apprehend, jurisdiction may be assumed by the federal,
equally with the state Courts, upon another ground. Kentucky
may prescribe any policy for the protection of the agriculture of the
country that she may deem wise and proper; she has in effect declared, that junior patents, issued for previously granted lands, shall
be delivered up and cancelled; with the addition, that a release of
title shall be executed: and it is the duty of the Courts to execute
the policy.
Where the legislature declares certain instruments illegal and
void, as the British annuity act does; or as the gaming acts do ; there
is inherent in the Courts of Equity a jurisdiction to order them to
be delivered up, and thereby give effect to the policy of the legislature. 10 Ves. 218. 5 Ves. 604. 2 Yerger's Rep. 524. 1 Maddock's Ch. Pra. 185, and authorities cited.
The sthte legislatures certainly have no authority to prescribe the
forms and modes of proceeding in the Courts of the United Staths ;
but having created a right, and at the same time prescribed the remedy to enforce it, if the remedy prescribed is substantially consistent with the ordinary modes of proceeding on the Chancery side
of the federal Courts, no reason exists why it should not be pursued in the same form as it is in the state Courts; on the contrary,
propriety and convenience suggest, that the practice should not materially differ, where titles to lands are the subjects of investigation.
And such is the constant course of the federal Cout, For instance,
in Tennessee, the legislature has provided that the Courts of Equity
may divest a title, and vest it in another party to the suit; and that
the decree shall operate as a legal conveyance. So in Kentucky,
the legislature has declared that the Courts may appoint a commissioner to convey as the attorney in fact of a litigant party; and that
such deed shall pass, the title: in both instances binding infants
and fernes covert, if necessary. The federal Courts, in the states
referred to, have adopted the same practice for many years, without
a doubt having been entertained of its propriety. It may be said

SUPREME COURT.
(Clark et al. vs. Smith.]

with truth, that this is a mode of conveyance and of passing title,
which the states have the exclusive right to regulate; still the same
statute that conferred the power thus to decree a conveyance, prescribed the mode of proceeding; and had the form of the remedy
been rejected by the Courts of the United States, the right to have
such record conveyance would have fallen with it, as they could
not be separated.
The undoubted truth is, that wnen investigating and decreeing
on titles in this country, we must deal with them, in practice, as
we find them, and accommodate our modes of proceeding in a
considerable degree, to the nature of the case, and the character
of -the equities involved in the controversy; so as to give effect to
state legislation and state policy: not departing, however, from what
legitimately belongs to the practice of a Court of Chancery.
The complainant's case being one coming clearly within the ruies
alluded to; we order that the decree of the Court below be reversed,
and the cause remanded to be proceeded in according to the rights
of the parties.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the District of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it
is adjudged and decreed by this Court, that the decree of the said
Circuit Court, in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed,
with costs, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded
to the said Circuit Court, for further proceedings to be had therein,
in conformity to the opinion of this Court.

