OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

"Win. G. Wilson, of Wilson & Wallis.
"Henry T. Wing, of Wing, Shoudy & Putnam.
"J. Langdon Ward, of North, Ward & Wagstaff.
"Mark Ash, of Alexander & Ash.
"James J. Macklin, of Stewart & Macklin.
"F. R. Coudert, of Coudert Brothers.
"Treadwell Cleveland, of Evarts, Choate & Beaman.
"Lorenzo TJI1o, of Ullo, Ruebsamen & Cochran.
"Lewis Cass Ledyard, of Carter & Ledyard..
"Wm. Allen Butler, of Butler, Stillman & Hubbard."
.MXr. Johs.Murray 3litchell opposing.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE: This is an application on behalf of
John P. Hawkins for leave to file a petition for a writ of
mandamus to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit and to the judges thereof, commanding them to
receive and duly consider certain depositions or further proofs
taken by petitioner on appeal in an action pending in that
court wherein he is t4e libellant and appellee.. The depositions in question were suppressed by the court on motion
and for reasons given.
We cannot by mandamus review the judicial action thus
had in the exercise of legitimate jurisdiction. In re XJorrison,
.petitioner, ante, 14; Ex parte JXorgan, 114 U. S. 174; Ex
yparte Burtis,103 U. S. 238; Exparte Schwab, 98 U. S. 240.
Leave to file the petition is
Denied.

THORINGTO1N v. MONTGOMERY.
ERRR TO THE SUrREM E COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABA

o.l oS0. Submitted January 23, 1893.-Decided February 0, 1893.
The Fifth Amendmeilt to the Constitution operates exclusively in restriction
of Federal power, and has no application to the States.
A controversy as to the good faith of a transaction by which the title to the
property which forms the subject of this litigation was transferred to
the plaintiff-in error is held to involve no Federal question.

THORINGTOlT v. MONTGOAERY.
Opinion of the Court. ,

Tuis was a motion to dismiss or affirm.

The case is stated

in the opinion.
.Mr. W. Mallett P/illips and Mr. f.
motion.

C. Semple for the

Mr. John .M- Chilton opposing.
M.. Cm
court.

JUSTICE

FuLLER delivered the opinion of the

The opinion of the Supreme Court of Alabama in this case
is given in the record, and reported in 10 S. Rep. 634, and
refers to Winter v. City Council of .Montgomery, 79 Alabama,
481; Thoringtom v. .Montgomery, 82 Alabama, 591; and
-Thorington v. X,ontgomery, 88 Alabama, 548.
It appears
that a decree was rendered in favor of the city of Montgomery
and against Mary E. Winter and others by the chancery court
at Montgomery, in August, 1884, for taxes due for previous
years on six lots of land in the city, and a sale directed if the
amount were not paid, which decree was affirmed December
10, 1885; that in October, 1885, certain of the lots were
ordered to be sold for delinquent taxes for the year 1884; and
that in November, 1885, three of the lots were sold under the
decree and bought in in the name of Mrs. Thorington, Mrs.
Winter's daughter, and the taxes for 1884, interest, charges
and costs were paid. On January 25, 1886, Mrs. Thorington
filed a bill in the-chancery court seeking to enjoin the sale of
the three lots, with the others, by-the city, to satisfy the total
sum of unpaid taxes ascertained by the decree. The bill was
dismissed, but on appeal the decree was reversed, and,, the
case having been remanded, the bill was again dismissed. On
a second appeal, the decree was again reversed on the ground
that the effect of the purchase by Mrs. Thorington under the
tax sale was to cut off all prior liens for taxes for the years
preceding 1884; but it was observed in the opinion that if it
were shown that the money with which the lots ,were purchased was not, in fact or legal effect, Mrs. Thorington's, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

that there was collusion or a secret trust for the taxpayer,
then the doctrine of estoppel would not apply. The cause
having again been heard by the chancery court, the bill was
again dismissed, and on the third appeal by Mrs. Thorington
the decree was affirmed by. the Supreme Court, to which
judgment this writ of error was sued out.
We cannot find that any Federal question was raised in the
proceedings in the chancery court. The only error assigned
in the Supreme Court, was that "the court below erred in
rendering the final decree nade by it dismissing appellant's
bill and in overruling objections to testimony." It is stated
in the writ of error that in tie cause "between Sallie G.
Thorington, appellant, and the City Council of Montgomery,
appellee, wherein was drawn in question appellant's right
under Article V of the dmended Constitution of the United
States. to have the testimony of her,- the said Sallie G., which
had been taken under.a duly issued commission in that behalf,
read in her behalf on the trial of the said cause, and the decision was against her right and claim to be so heard, a manifest error hath happened, etc."
The Fifth Amendment operates exclusively in restriction of
Federal power, and has no application to the States', but in
the brief for plaintiff in error it is said- that the Fourteenth
Amendment wa violated in her case in respect of the provision : 1" Nor shall any Slate deprive any person of life, liberty,
or property without due process of law; nor deny to any person within, its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
The controversy seems to have been As to the good faith of
the transaction by which the title to the property was transferred to Mrs. Thorington at the tax iale, it being, contended
by the city that the purchase was a mere device to evade the
indebtedness for taxes, and-that the property was still chargeable with such indebtedness. This was the conclusion of the
chancery court, and its judgment. was affirmed by the Supreme
Court. We find from the record, the opinion of the Supreme
Court and the decision of the chancellor, that at the April
term, 1890, of the chancery court a motion and affidavit on
behalf of plaintiff were filed, April 14, 189'0, for an order to

THORINGTN v. MONTGOMERY.
Opinion-of the Court.

compel the city to produce in court certain testimony alleged
to have been taken. by respondent, "or, if that may not be
consistently and legally done, that reasonable opportunity be
given complainant to further justify her case herein by allowing complainant reasonable opportunity to establish the said
testimony so taken for use in complainant's behalf in this"
cause." The cause was not tried at that term, nor did it
appear that any action was taken on the motion or that the
attention of the court was called to it. The case was submit.
ted to the chancellor, October 15, -1890,at the October term,
and on October 16, when the argument had been nearly completed,, an application was ibade that the submission be set
aside in order that the motion made at the last term of the
court might be considered. It was stated by the chancellor
that at %former time counsel had asked the court' to instruct
the commissioner to return a deposition he had taken, to him,
and the commission to the court as having been improperly
issued, and that the dhancellor instructed the commissioner to
take whatever acti6n as to the deposition he might choose, but
in no event to permit either party to the suit to examine it.
The chancellor held thatthe deposition was taken improperly,
and that it was the right of complainant's counsel to ask the
court that it should not be subjected to the scrutiny of defendant's counsel; but that if it were then before the court it
could not be used for \ny purpose unless in the meantime the
deposition of the witness had been subsequently taken, and
the former deposition should be offered to contradict any of
the statements Inade in the latter. The chancellor added
"It cannot be disputed that if any one desired to take action
in the matter to get the deposition of either of these witnesses
there has been ample time to have done so. The submission
in this cause was made without any application for a continuance in order to get the deposition of these witnesses, one of
whom is the complainant. The complainant has never taken
any steps during*the time this case has been continued from
year to year to get her own or her mother's deposition in the
case. Under these circumstances the motion to set aside the
submission on that ground is denied."

