OCTOBER TERM;I 1892.
Syllabus.

quired and done is tantamount to such transfer; as, where the
value of the owners' interest is paid into court, or secured by
stipulation and placed under its control, for the benefit of the
parties interested." To the same effect, see The City of Norwich, 118 U. S. 468, 502.
In fact, it is stated in the brief for Morrison, that his counsel
',do not doubt that the operation of the limited liability act
cannot be regarded as confined to cases of actual transfer to a
trustee, but must be regarded as extending to cases in which
what is done is tantamount to such transfer; as, when the
-. value of the owner's interest is paid into court, or secured by
stipulation, and placed under its control for the benefit of the
parties interested. But what they contend for is, that' the
value of such interest cannot be regarded as paid into court,
or secured by stipulation, until such value has been judicially
ascertained, after a hearing of the persons interested, and that
only such a judicial ascertainment is equivalent to a transfer
of the'vessel and her'freight to a trustee.
As the District Court. for Massachusetts has jurisdiction in
the premises, we will not prohibit it from proceeding in the
exercise of such jurisdiction. A writ of prohibition will be
issued only in case of a want of jurisdiction either of the
parties or of the subject-matter of the proceeding. In re .Fassett, 142 U. S. 479, 486.
The foregoing views sufficiently dispose of the points urged
-Bothwrits denied.
in behalf of the writ.

STIREETER v. JEFFERSON COUNTY BANK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 8L Argued December 7,1892.-Decided January 3,1893.

A creditor of a bankrupt caused execution to be levied, before the bankruptcy, on goods of the bankrupt to satisfy the debt.. The levy was
afterwards set aside, as an illegal preference within the purview of the
bankrupt act in consequence of knowledge of the debtor's condition by
the plaintiff's attorney. Held, that the creditor was not thereby precluded

STREETER v. JEFFERSON COUNTY BANK.

87

Statement of the Case.
from proving his debt against the bankrupt; and that an endorser of
the note of the bankrupt to the creditor, on which the judgment was
founded, was not discharged from his liability as endorser by reason of
the levy being declared in fraud of the provisions of the bankrupt law,
Rev. Stat., § 5084, and § 5021 as amended by the act of June 22, 1874,
18 Stat. 178, 181.

ON each of the dates, January 21 and February 7, and
February 12, 1877, at the city of Watertown, Jefferson
County, New York, Henry V. Cadwell, James C. Cadwell,
and Lewis A. Cadwell, copartners doing business as such
under the firm name of H. V. Cad well & Co., executed their
promissory note, payable one month from date, to the order
of H. V. Cadwell & Co. at the Jefferson County National
Bank of Watertown, New York, the first two notes being for
the sum of $1000 each, and the third for $750. Each of said
notes was endorsed by the firm in their firm name and by
John C. Streeter, as accommodation endorser, and passed into
the possession of the bank, the defendant in error.
The notes, at their maturity, were presented for payment
where the same were payable, and payment thereof demanded,
which was 'refused; whereupon the notes were duly protested
for non-payment, and notice of such demand, refusa'l and protest, in each instance thereof, was then and there duly given
to each of said endorsers.
On or about the 16th day of March, 1877, the bank commenced an actioni on the three notes in the Supreme Court of
the State of New York against Henry'V. Cadwell, James 0.
Cadwell and Lewis A. Cadwell, and such prbceedings were
had therein that the plaintiff, the said bank, recovered a judgment against the makers of the said notes for the full amount
thereof. In this action the plaintiff in error, John C. Streeter,
was impleaded as a defendant, but no service was made on
him, and he did not appear.' On the same day an execution
on the judgment was issued and delivered to the sheriff of
Jefferson County, who by virtue thereof levied upon the property of the defendants to an amount sufficient to satisfy the
execution.
On the day the said levy was made a petition in bankruptcy

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

was filed in the District Court of the United States for the
-Northern District of New York against the said Henry V.
Cadwell, James C. Cadwell, and Lewis A. Cadwell, upon
which petition the said Cadwells were, on May 1, 1877,
adjudged bankrupts, and an assignee of their property was
appointed. By order of the court the sale, by virtue of the
said execution, of the property so levied upon was enjoined,
and the sheriff was appointed receiver of the estate of the said
bankrupts, and directed to sell the property levied upon by
him, and deposit the proceeds of such sale in the depository
of the said court, subject to the further order of the court;
which sale was made and the proceeds so deposited. The
order also directed that the lien of the judgment creditors, if
there should be such lien, should follow and attach to the
moneys arising from the said sale.
In November, 1877, John C. Brown, the assignee, filed his
bill in equity in the said District Court of the United States,
charging that the said bank, being a creditor of the said
Henry V. Cadwell, James C. Cadwell, and Lewis A. Cadwell,
and having reason to believe that they, the said Cadwells,
were insolvent, did, with the assent, connivance, and procurement of the said Cadwells, and knowing that a fraud 'on the
act of Congress of March 2, 1867, and acts supplementary to
and amendatory thereof, was intended, commenced an action in
the Supreme Court of the State of New York against the said
Cadwells, in which action the said bank obtained judgment
as aforesaid upon the said notes against the makers thereof.
This bill avers that before the filing thereof the assignee
demanded of. the defendant, the said bank, that it surrender
its preference and all claims derived from the judgment to the
property of the said Cadwells, and all liens it claimed to have
by virtue of the said judgment and execution, which the bank
refused, and persisted in refusing to do. The bill alleged that
said judgment and execution were void as against the assignee
.by reason of these acts, and prayed that the said judgments
be decreed to be in fraud of the said bankruptcy laws of the
United States, and void as against the plaintiff and creditors
of the insolvents aforesaid,

STREETER v. JEFFERSON COUNTY BANK.

39

Statement of the Case.

The answer to this bill admits the refusal of the said bank
to surrender its said preference and liens, but denies that it
had knowledge of the insolvency of the said Cadwells at the
time its said action was commenced against them, that said
judgments were obtained with the consent, connivance and
procurement of the makers of the said notes, and that any
fraud was intended upon the bankruptcy laws of the United
States. Other allegations appear in the bill and answer, but
upon them there was no contention at the trial of the cause.
The court being of opinion, from the evidence before it, that
the said bankrupts, in contemplation of insolvency, desiring to
secure their endorsers and the said bank, had decided to do so
by means of judgments and executions; and -thatas the attorneys who brought the actions were the bankrupts' attorneys,
and as the attorneys were under no professional obligations
not to disclose the circumstances and designs of clients who
desired to assist their employef, the said bank should be
charged with all the knowledge possessed by the'said attorneys. The court therefore rendered a decree' in the cause,
adjudging the said judgment and execution void as against
the complainant, the said assignee, and that the money which
arose from the said sale by said receiver belonged to the said
assignee.
The defendant, the said bank to6k an. appeal from this
judgment and decreekto the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern: District of New York, where the action of
the said District Court was affirmed, and judgment of affirmation entered in the said Circuit Court on :March 15, 1881..
Subseqluently, upon an brder. of the said court, the money so
deposited as-aforesaid was paid to the said assignee.
In September, 1881, the Jefferson County National Bank
brought an action in the Supreme Court of the State of New
'York against John C.. Streeter, as endorser on the said notes,
for the respective amounts thereof, averring in its complaint
the protest for non-payment of the said notes .and notice thereof
duly given to the said endorser,, and alleging liability on the
part of the said endorser for their payment. -The defendant,
Streeter, in his answer to said complaint, alleges that by reason

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

.of a fraudulent arrangement between the bank and the makers
of the said notes, by which the bank became a preferred creditor of the same, and by reason of the decree aforesaid of the
said Circuit Court of the United States adjudging such action
of the bank to be void, the bank had, by reason of the provisions of the said statutes of the United States, precluded itself
from all right or claim against the property of the makers of
the said notes, and that all rights and remedies on the part of
the bank and of himself, .the said Streeter, were thereby lost:
and that the defendant was thereby discharged from all liability
to the plaintiff as endorser of said notes.
This case came for trial in the said Supreme Court of New
York, and a jury being waived, was tried by the court and
judgment given for the plaintiff; the court holding that the
bank was not precluded from making a claim against the
property of the makers of the said notes, or from proving its
claim against them as bankrupts, and that the defendant,
Streeter, had not been discharged from liability as endorser on
said notes.
An appeal from this judgment was taken to, the Court of
Appeals of the State of New York, which affirmed the order
of the said Supreme Court. 106 N., Y. 186. On remittitur,
entered June 8, 188, the judgment of the said Supreme Court
,of Appeals was made the order of the said Supreme Court of
'New York.
Thereupon the said John C. Streeter, defendant in the said
action, sued out this writ of error.
.Mr. Watson At. "1ogersfor plaintiff in error.
That the defendant in error in this action procured from the
makers of 'the notes in suit, a fraudulent and preferential judg.
ment, which was forbidden by law, cannot be disputed. That
vas the very issue tried in the United States District and Circuit Courts, and that was the fact that was adjudged in the
,suit between the defendant in error and the assignee of the

makers. It must be accepted and treated as a fundamental

STREETER v. JEFFERSON COUNTY BANK.

41

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

fact in the case. Brown v. Jefferson County Bank, 19 Blatchford, 333.
This fraudulent and unlawful preference has never been surrendered by the bank. On the contrary, it litigated the matter
with the assignee, and was defeated, and- then the fund was
turned over to the assignee. Final judgment was entered
against the bank, and the record does not show that anything
further was done.
The word "surrender," as used in the statute, implies a voluntary giving up by the creditor to the assignee of the preference. Then he may prove his debt. But if he chooses to.
contest the title of the assignee and judgment is recovered
against him, he cannot prove it. Inh re Drummond, 4 Bissell,
149; In 'e Stephens, 3 Bissell, 187.
The bank cannot, under the provisions of the Federal statute,
prove the notes endorsed by the defendant, nor the judgment
recovered upon them, against-the estate of the makers.
It would seem, therefore, that the only contention: that can
possibly arise on that question is as to whether it can prove for
a moiety or at all. For the purpose of the question involved
in this case it is wholly immaterial whether the holder of the
note by reason of its fraudulent act in obtaining a preference
is prohibited from proving its whole debt or a moiety thereof.
The result isjust the same in this case. If the holder has
by its own acts and, dealings precluded itself from proving
against the estate, of the makers one-half the debt, then'it has
released and disclarged his property from all liability to pay
that half; and if the endorser, by the holder's acts and dealings with the makers has lost his right to prove the note, (that
is the whole note and not half of it,) against the estate of the
maker of the note, then it is submitted that the endorser is discharged in law and in equity. The holder cannot impair the
endorser's remedy over against the maker and at the same time
hold him liable on the endorsement, .Phelsv, .Borland,103
,N. Y. 406, It 'is respectfully -submitted, however, that the
bank cannot prove the claim, or even a moiety. In re Stein,
16 Nat. Bank, Reg. 569. Under the first subdivision of Rev.
'Stat, § 5021, it bas been held, that the acts and knowledge

42

OCTOBER TERAT, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of the creditor's attorney who procured the judgment consti
tuting the fraudulent preference, were the acts and knowledge
of the creditor himself. Rogers v. Palmer,102 U. S. 263. In
the case at bar, the attorneys employed by the bank to procure
the judgments against the bankrupts were the bankrupts' attorneys. The attorneys knew the purpose of the judgments, to
wit: to obtain a preference which was a fraud. The knowledge and acts of the attorneys being imputed to the bank,
their knowledge and acts being the bank's knowledge and acts,
the bank was guilty of actu.al fraud.
The plaintiff in error, the endorser of the notes, cannot prove
them agaidst the estate of the maker, as he is prohibited from
proving on the same grounds, and for the same reason that the
defendant in error is. To allow the plaintiff in error to prove
a debt which the defendant in error is prohibited from proving
would defeat the very object of the law. Therefore, in such
case, it must be held that the endorser is discharged from all
liability to the holder of the note. Bartholow v. Bean, 18
Wall. 635; I, re Ayelr, 6 Bissell, 48. The precise question
involved in this case has been decided by the Court of Appeals
of the State'of Kentucky in accordance with the contention of
the plaintiff in error in this case. _Northern Bank of Kaentucky v. Cooke, 13 Bush, 340. See also In re Wilson, 11 Yes.
'410; Brown v. Williams, 4 Wend. 360.; ,Shuttsv. Fingar,100
1N. Y. 543.
It will be seen by the record in this case that the bank not
only obtained a judgment against the makers of the notes, but
-bad, through the sheriff, obtained .a levy on their property
which was sufficient to'pay the debt; but, by its attorneys it
appeared in court and consented to release the property from
the levy of the sheriff, as such, and converted him into an
officer of the Bankrupt Court, and discharged the lien of the
execution. ' This was done without the consent of the endorser, and it is respectfully submitted that, irrespective of
the question hereinbefore discussed, it discharged the endorser.
Without the consent of the bank, the sheriff had no right to
surrender the property upon which he had levied and remand
the funds to another jurisdiction. lVational Bank & Loa'

* "

STREETER u. JEFFERSON1

COUNTY BA NK.

43-

Opinion of the C.ourt.

Co. of Tatertown v. Balbitt, 17 Hun, 447; Ansonia Brass &
*Copper Co. v. Babbitt, 74 N. Y. 395; O'Brienn v. Weld, 92
U. S. 81; Marshall v. Knox, 16 Wall.551; Smitkh v. Mason,.
14 Wall. 419; Ducker v. Rapp, 67 N..Y. 464; see also Gardner v. Oliver Lee & Co.'s. Bank, 11.Ba.rb. 558, and P/e ps v.
Borland,103 N. Y. 406.
. Aside from the questions of surrender and right of the bank
to prove its claim against the bankrupt's estate, it is submitted
the endorser is discharged "byreason of the changed relations
brought about by the acts of the holder of the notes.
(a.) The bank fraudulently procured judgment on the notes,
and when requested so to do, refused to surrender its unlawful
preference. While in this position, by its own wrongful act
it disabled itself from proving.its claim against the bankrupts'
estate, because it could not hold on to its judgment and execution, and proceed in the bankruptcy court at the same time.
Section 5084: bars the way. Nor could the endorser have
taken up the notes and proved them against the bankrupts'
estate. *He could only be subrogated to the rights of the
holder. The time of payment was thus extended, which, by
the unquestioned rule of law as to commercial paper, discharges the endorser. United States Bank v. Batch, 6 Pet.
250; Ducker v. Rapp, 67 N. Y. 464; Pomeroy v. Tanner, 70
N. Y. 547; fartin V. Thomas, 24 Howy.315.
Apy dealing with the principal by the creditor which
amounts to a departure from the contract by which the surety
(accommodation endorser) is bound, and which by possibility
might vary or enlarge his liabilities, operates to discharge the
surety. Ludlow v. Sr ond,2 Caines' Cas. 1; .Millerv. Stewart, 9 Wheat. 680; .United States v. Boecker, 21 Wall. 652.
.Mr. John Lansing for defendant in error.
Mi JUSTcx SnmAs delivered the opinion of the court.
John G. Streeter, the plaintiff in error, contends that the
record discloses, as matter of fact, that the Jefferson County
National Bank, being the holder of certain promissory notes

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

made by the firm of H. V. Cadwell & Co. entered into a collusive arrangement with said firm, who were insolvent at the
time, and who were shortly afterwards adjudged bankrupts,
whereby the bank was, by procuring judgment on said notes,
to obtain an illegal preference over other creditors of the
firm; that, by reason of this collusive arrangement, the bank
disabled itself from proving its claim on these notes against
the estate of the bankrupts, and thereby discharged Streeter,
who was an accommodation endorser, from liability to the
bank.
The assignee in bankruptcy brought an action in the District Court! of the United States for the Northern District of
New York, to test the validity of the bank's judgment, and
it was adjudged by that court that the judgments were void
as against the assignee, and, on appeal, this judgment was
affirmed by the Circuit Court.
The case will be found reported as Brown v. Jeferon
Gounty .NationalBank, in 19 Blatchford, 315.
An examination of that case' discloses that the judgment in
favor of the bank was held an illegal. preference,-within the
purview of the. bankrupt law, because the attorneys employed.
to represent the bank in bringing the suit and obtaining the
judgment had been the attorneys of H. V. Cadwell & Co.,
and, as such, had obtained knowledge of their insolvent condition and of their desire that the bank should obtain a
preference.
The question that was presented to the New York Supreme
Court and the New York Court of Appeals was, whether the
fraud imputed to the bank, arising from the knowledge of its
attorfieys of the insolvent condition of H. V. Cadwell & Co.
at the time the judgments were obtained, was such a case of
fraud as to disable the bank-from proving its claim in bank-

ruptcy, and thus to effect a discharge of Streeter as endorser.
,he provision of section 5081 of the :Revised Statutes of the
Udnited States is as follows:
" Any person whp, since the second day of March, eighteen
hundred and sixty-seven, has accepted any preference, having
reasonable cause to believe that the same was made or given

*

STREETER v. JEFFERSON COUNTY BANK.

45

Opinion- of the Court.

by the debtor contrary to any provisions of the act of March
two, eighteen hundred and sixty-seven, chapter one hundred
and seventy-six, to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy,
or to any provisions of this Title, shall not prove the debt or
claim on account of which the preference is made or given,
nor shall he receive any dividend therefrom until he shall
first surrender to the assignee all property, money, benefit or
advantage received by him under such preference."
Section 5021, as amended in 1874,. (act of June 22, 1874,18
Stat. 178, 181, c. 390, § 12,) is as follows:
"Provided, That the person receiving such payment or
conveyance had reasonable cause to believe that the debtor
was insolvent, and'knew that a fraud on this act was intended
and such person, if a creditor, shall not, in cases of actual
fraud on his part, be allowed to prove for more than a moiety
of his debt, and this limitation on the proof of debts shall
apply to cases of voluntary as well as involuntary bankruptcy."
It is contended, on behalf of the plaintiff in error, that the
bank did not, within the meaning of the law, surrender its
preference, and hence could not prove its claim; and that
the case was one of "actual fraud" on the part of the bank,
which could not, therefore, in any event prove for more than
a moiety of its debt.
To sustain the contention that the bank did not surrender
its preference, it is urged that the bank did not at once, on
demand of the assignee, turn over the goods levied on, but
litigated the matter with the assignee in both the District and
Circuit Courts, and that the proceeds of the executions were
not relinquished until final judgment was entered'against the
bank.
It was the opinion of the state court that as the sheriff,
having custody of the goods seized on execution was, with
the consent of the bank's attorneys, appointed special receiver,
and was ordered to sell the goods and pay the proceeds into
yourt, to await the result of the litigation between the bank
and the assignee in bankruptcy, and that as the proceeds were
finally turned over to the assignee, and thus became subject
to distribution as bankruptcy assets, the transaction amounted

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

to a surrender under section 5084. In so holding we think
the state court was. right.
As the bank did not, at any time, receive any money or
property from the insolvent firm, but pursued only a lawful
remedy in a lawful manner, it was not under any legal obligation to abandon its executions, and to turn over their fruits
to the assignee immediately upon demand. 'We do not perceive that the course of the bank, in resisting the claim of the
assignee by setting up a defence, is subject to'just criticism,
or thereby estopped itself from proving its claim after' the
..assignee had prevailed in his suit.
•fThe endeavor of the bank to maintain its executions would,
if successful, have been for the benefit of the endorser, who
would, in that event, have been the last to complain, and it is
certainly'not apparent why the endorser should be discharged
from his liability by the effort of the bank to legally collect
a debt in his exoneration.
The decision of the state cotirt, that the facts did not make
out a case of actual fraud on the part of the bank, so, as to
deprive it of a right to provefor more than a moiety of its
debt, and thus relieve the endorser of liability, in whole or in
part, seems to be well founded in reason. There was no actual
knowledge'by the bank or its officers that the insolvent firm
'had done anything whatever to facilitate the procurement of
the judgments. There was no giving aild accepting of any
security. There was no finding in the District Court of the
United States of actual fraud.
The state court cites with appr6v41, the case In 'e R.id,
14 Nat. Bank. Reg. 332, in which it was held by Mr. Justice.
Blatchford, then sitting as District Judge, that. a mere fraud
on the bankrupt law, by the acceptance of' a preference, was
not,. in itself, actual fraud-;-and, commenting on this decision,.
the court said: " Such conclusion seems just and equitable.
The bringing of an action by bcreditor in the ordinary mode
of 'procedure in the state courts, and procuring a judgment,
may be, as- in this case, constructive fraud, for which the lien
will be set'aside. But even that will depend upon the further
fact that bankrupt proceedings shall be instituted within the

