ALBUQUERQUE BANK v. PEREA
Statement of the Case.

it at least doubtful whether the barque swung more than one.
This inference is strengthened by. the fiact that the steamer's
screw was left handed, and that a reversal of the engine would
have a tendency to throw her head still more rapidly to port.
Evidently the order to port the steamer was given when the
vessels were so near together that it could have had but slight
effect upon her course.
Upon the whole, it is impossible for is to say that these
findings, while inconsistent with the theory of both parties,
were not supported by the testimony, or that they did not
justify the conclusion that the change. of course of the barque
was made in extremis. The decree of the court below is
therefore
SAffirmed.

ALBUQUERQUE BANK v. PEREA.
APPEAL

FROM THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.

No. 710. Submitted December 14,1892.-Decided January 3,1893.

When a statute requires property to be assessed for taxation at its cash
value, a bill to enjoin the collection of a tax, solely on the ground that
the property of other persons is assessed below its cash value cannot
be maintained by a person whose property is also assessed below that
value.
In order to procure an injunction restraining the collection of a tax, it is
necessary to pay, or offer to pay, such parts of the sum assessed as is
not disputed.

ON November 3, 1888, appellant, as plaintiff, filed its bill in
the District Court of the Second Judicial District of the
Territory of New Nexico, to restrain the defendant, sheriff
and ex officio collector of Bernalillo County, from the collection of the regular territorial, county, and city taxes assessed
and levied upon its property for the year 1888. The ground
upon which the injunction was sought was, generally speaking,
inequality and discrimination in the assessment. The bill al-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

leged that the plaintiff made a return of its property for taxation to the assessor, protesting at the time that its property
should not be assessed at any greater rate than other property; that, disregarding the protest, the assessor assessed the
property at its par and full value; that thereupon it appealed
to the board of equalization, which reduced the assessment
to 85 per cent; "that all other property in the county, and
Territory is not assessed at near so high a valuation upon its
actual value;" and that the average valuation of such other
property does not exceed seventy per cent of its actual value.
At first there were also allegations to the effect that the assessor and board of equalization systematically discriminated in
the valuation and assessment of complainant's property and
other property in the Territory, but they were voluntarily
stricken out by the plaintiff. It further alleged "that the
amount of its taxes upon the assessment as made by the
board of equalization is the sum of two thousand one hundred
and eighty-nine ($2189) dollars, and that the amount of the
assessment which your orator should justly pay for its said
property, if*lawfully, equitably and justly assessed, would be
the sum of fifteen hundred and thirty-two dollars and thirty
cents, which said sum your orator brings into court and hereby
tenders and offers to pay to the said defendant, Jos6 L. Perea,
ex offlcio collector of said county of Bernalillo."
Subsequently, and on INovember 29, 1889, it filed a supplemental bill, the purpose of which was to restrain the collection of the taxes for the year 1889. That bill, on its face,
failed to allege the amount of taxes levied upcn the property
of the plaintiff for that year; though by reference to one of
the exhibits attached, the assessment roll for the county it
appears that it was $3713.76. There was an allegation that
the amount admitted in the original bill to be justly due for
the taxes of 1888 had been paid; and then follow these averments, which are all there is, in respect to an admission of an
amount due, payment, or tender:
"And your orator further alleges that, having paid all the
taxes for which it was liable for the year 1888, it now comes
into court and offers to pay all the taxes which can justly and

ALBUQUERQUE BANK ,. PEREA.
Opinion of the Court.

lawfully be assessed against it, and for which it may be justly
and lawfully liable for the year 1889, and, now tenders the
.
same into court. .
"And your orator further alleges that. the. said assessment
and said tax roll are so made out that it is impossible to separate the property upon which your orator is justly-and lawfully taxed, and the taxes upon which is just and lawfully
levied, from the balance of the taxes assessed against your
orator, but whatever sum may be ascertained by the court to be
so justly due from your oratbr on account of taxes for the year
1889, your orator is ready hud willing and bring the same
into court and is ready to pay.the sam,"
A demurrer to these bills, original and supplemental, was
sustained by the District Court, and the bills dismissed; and
on appeal to.the Supreme Court of the Territory this decree
was affirmed. From the decision of the Supreme Court of the
Territory complainant has brought this appeal.
William B.

.Xl.

kildvrs for appellant.

r.-Edward L. Bartlett for appellee.
Yk.

JU

oE BREWEB

delivered the opinion of the court.

The decree dismissing the original and supplemental bills
must be sustained. As to the tax of 1888, the case stands
upon the allegation that plaintiff's property was originallyassessed at its full value, vhile other property was assessed
seventy per cent thereef; that it appealed to the board of
equalization for a reduction; and that such tribunal reduied
the valuation, but only to eighty-five instead of seventy per
cent. It would seem that the mere statement of this whs
sufficient. The law of New Mexico requires property to be
assessed at its cash value. Confessedly, this plaintiff's property was assessed at fifteen per cent below that value. Surely,
upon the mere fact that other property happened to be assessed at thirty per cent below the value, when this did not
come from any design or systematic effort on the part of the
county officials, and when the plaintiff has had a hearing as to

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the correct valuation, on appeal before the board of equalization, the proper tribunal for review, it cannot be that it can,
come into a court of equity for an injunction, or have that
decision of the board of equalization reviewed in this collateral
way. Stanley v. Supervisors of Albany, 121 U. S. 535.
With respect to the taxes of 1889, there was no payment or
tender of payment of any amount. Plaintiff seeks to avoid
'the necessity therefor by alleging that it is impossible to separate the legal from the illegal portions of the taxes; an
allegation which is manifestly untfue, in view of the fact that
it had no difficulty in making the separation in the taxes of
1888, the assessment for which was made in a similar way;
and in view of the further fact that it must have known what
property it had which was subject to taxation as well as its
value, and, therefore, the rate of taxation being fixed by law,
it could, of course, have known what amount was undoubtedly
due. The rule in respect to this matter is perfectly well settled
in this court. In State Rlailroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575, 616,
it was fully considered. In that case it was said by Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the court: "It is a profitable thing
for corporations or individuals whose taxes are very large to
obtain a preliminary injunction as to all their taxes, contest
the case through several years' litigation, and when in the end
it is found that but a small part of the tax should be permanently enjoined, submit to pay the balance. This is not
equity. It is in direct violation of the first principles of
equity jurisdiction. It is not sufficient to say in the bill that
they are ready and willing to pay whatever may be found
due. They must first pay What is conceded to be due, or
what can be seen to be due on the face of the bill, or be shown
by affidavits, whether conceded or not, before the preliminary
injunction should be granted. The State is not to be thus tied
up as to that of which there is no contest, by luping it with
that. which is really contested. If the proper officer refuses to
,receive a part of the tax, it must be tendered, and tendered
without the condition annexed of a receipt in full for all the
taxes assessed.." Many other cases to like effect might be cited.
The decree'will be
Affrmed.

