OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus .

that a cQmmission be appointed to ascertain and designate at
said places the boundary line between the two States, such
commission, consisting of three competent persons, to be named
by the court upon suggestion of counsel, and be required to
make the proper examination and to delineate on maps prepared for that purpose the true line as determined by this
cQurt, and report the same to the court for its further action.

-In e MORRISON, Petitioner.
InTre MORRISON, Petitioner.1
ORIGINAL.
Noe. 8, 9. Original. Argued December 12, 13,1892.-DecIded January 3, 1893.

A collision occurred, in Vineyard Sound, between the steam yacht A., at
anchor, owned by V. of New York, and the steamship D., owned by a
Massachusetts corporation. The A. sank. The corporation filed a libel
against V., to limit its liability, in the District Court for Massachusetts,
under §§ 4283 and 4284 of the Revised Statutes, alleging that the D. was
lying at Boston, and averring no negligence in the D., and negligence in
the A., and praying for an appraisement of the value of the D. and her
pending freight at the time of the collision, and offering to give a stipulation therefor. It was alleged that the A. was worth over $250,000,
and that the value of the D. and her freight was less than $150,000. The
court appointed three appraisers, who made the appraisement exparte,
and reported the value of the D. at $80,000 and of her freight at $2395.33,
and a stipulation was given for those amounts. A monition was then
Issued for notice to V. and all persons concerned to prove their claims
for loss by a day named. The monition was duly published but was not
,personally served on V. in the Massachusetts District. The court made
an order enjoining V. and alLother persons from suing the corporation
1 No. 8 is extitled in the opinion of the court" Henry Morrison, Petitioner,
v. The District Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York, End the Honorable Addison Br6wn, Judge of the said Court.
Petition for a writ of mandamus." No. 9 is entitled in the opinion "Henry
Morrison, Petitioner, v. The District Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts and the Honorable Thomas L. Nelson, Judge of
the said Court. Petition for a writ of prohibition."

IN RE MORRISON, Petitioner.

15

Syllabus.
or the D. In respect of any claims arising out of the collision " excdpt in
these proceedings.?' Afterwards, M., the master of the A. filed a libel in
the District Court'for the Southern District of New-York, against the
corporation, the D., V., and all persons claiming damages from the collision, for apportionment of limited liability, charging the fault wholly on
the D., alleging that the loss of V. was $305,000, and that of 11. over
$1300; and that the value of the D. was over $200,000. Under process
the D. was attached, and it was served on the corporation, and V. duly
appeared. On motion of the D. and the corporation the District Court
in New York, on a hearing of all parties made an order vacating the
process issued on the libel of Al., setting aside the service thereof on
the corporation, releasing the D. from the attachment, and dismissing
the libel. The court held that M. had notice, before he filed his libel,
of the proceedings in Massachusetts, and of the injunction order issued
there. On applications by M. to this court, for a mandamus to the District Court in New York, to vacate its order and reinstate the libel of M.,
and for a prohibition to the District Court in Massachusetts from proceeding further on the libel filed there; Hgeld,
(1) The District Court in New York dismissed the libel of M. on a hearing on the merits;
(2) If the jurisdiction of that court was in issue before it, the remedy of
M. was by a direct appeal to this court, on that question, under § 5
of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 827;
(3) If otherwise, the remedy of M., as against the order dismissing the
libel, was by an appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals, for the
Second Circuit, under § 6 of the same act;
(4) The mandamus is refused;
(5) The District Court in Massachusetts acquired prior jurisdiction of
the proceedings;
(6) That court did not lose its jurisdiction by the fact that the D. subsequently went to New York;
(7) In order to sustain the proceeding it was not necessary that M. or.Y.
should have been personally served with notice thereof within the
District of Massachusetts, or that the D. should have been taken
and held by the Massachusetts Court;
(8) The filing of the libel by the corporation, with the offer of a atipulation, gave jurisdiction, and no subsequent irregularity in piocedure could take it away;
(9) The exparte appraisement was not void;
(10) The District Court in Massachusetts can order the giving of a new
or further stipulation, aid, on a failure to comply with such order,
can stay the further proceedings of the corporation, deny it all
relief, and dismiss its libel;
(11) The provision of Rule 54 in Admiralty, for the giving of a stipulation, instead of making a transfer to a trustee, is valid, and the
value involved may be judicially ascertained primarily without a
hearing of the perions interested adversely.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1892.
Citations for Petitioner.

ON the 11th of October, 1892, two applications were made
to the court on behalf of Henry Morrison; the first for leave
to file a petition for a writ of mandamus directed to the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York; the second for leave to file a petition for a writ of
prohibition directed to the District Court of Massachusetts.
Leave being granted, these petitions were filed, argument was
had, and, the petitions were both denied. The case is stated in
the opinion of the court.

-Mr. Samuel B. Clar7eand Ar. Elihu Root, (with whom was
21r. HarringtonPutnam on the brief,) for the petitioner in
each case cited: (1) on the-petition for the writ of mandamus;
Windeor "v. -We 17eigh, 93 U. S. 274; The J. F. French, 13
Fed. Rep. 916 _The Benefactor, 103 U. S. 239; Exparte Sayton, 105 U.S. 451; Atkins v. DisintegratingCo., 18 Wall.
272 ; x parte Peter Graham, 3 Wash. C. 0. 456; Pennoyer
-. Nef, 95 U. S. 714; Insurance Co. v. Bangs, 103 U. S. 435;
Ex parte Russell, 13 Wall. 664; Ex parte United States, 16
Wall. 699; Ex parte Bradstreet, 7 Pet. 634;'Ex arte Schollenberger, 96 U. S. 369 ; Ex varte Roberts, 15 :Wall. 384; E
parte Parker,'120 U. S. 737; In re Pennsylvania Co., 137
U. S. 451 ; Osborn v. Bank of the Unite&d States, 9 Wheat. 738;
United States v. Zee, 106 U. S. 196; Smith v. Adams, 130
U. S. 167; In re Pacifto Railway Commission, 32 Fed. Rep.
241; Cokens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264; Tennessee v. Davis,
100 U. S. 257; Alexandria v. Fairfax,95 U. S. 774; Smith v.
Woofolk, 115 U. S. 143; Sabariego v. -Maverick, 124 U. S.
261; Hassall v. Wilcox, 130 U. S. 493; Bradstreet v. Neptune
Insurance Co., 3 Sumner, 600; The Rio Grande,23 Wall. 458;
Toland v. Sprague, 12 Pet. 300; Picquet v. Swan, 5 Mason,
35; Afanro v. Almeida, 10 Wheat. 4'72; Norwich Company v.
Wright, 13 Wall. 104 ;\.Freeman v. Alderson, 119 U. S. 185;
The .lamie, 110 U. S. ,42; The City of NYorwich, 118 U. S.
468; _ parte Phenix \Insurance Co., 118 U. S. 610; Butler
v.Bostonr & Savannah Steamship Co., 130 U. S. 527; In re
,Garnett,141 U. S. 1: and, (2) on the petition for a writ of proOomyn's Dig. Tits. Prohibition, Admiialty; Anonyhibition ;C

IN RE MORRISON, Petitioner.
Citations against Petition.

mous, 2 Salk. 553; 'Faughanv. Evans, 8 Mod. 374; 7ohnson
v. Lee, 5 Mod. 238; Robinson v. Godsalve, 1 Ld. Raym. 123;
-DoctorJM 8'sCase, Hobart, 17; Rowland v. Hockenhulle, 1
Ld. Raym. 698; 'endyke
v. Stint, 2 Mod. 272; Ex parte
Christy, 3 How. 292; Exyarte Easton, 95 U. S. 68; In re Fassett, 14:2 U. S. 479; .farbury v. .Madison, 1 ranch, 137; Ex
parte Bradley, 7 Wall. 364; United States v. Peters, 3 'Dall.
121; The St. Lawrence, 1 Black, 522; 1Vard v. Chamberlain,
9 Black, 430; -fMayor c. of London v. Cox,. L. R. 2 H. L.
239; Serjeant v. Dale, 2 Q. B. D. 558; James v. London &
Southwestern Railway, L. R. 7 Ex. 187; NSorwih" Conmpany v.
Wiright, 13 Wall. 104; Providence & .5 . Y. Steamship Co. v.
Hill .Manufacturing Co., 109 U. S. 578; The Rio Grande, 23
Wall. 458.
Mr. Robert -D. Benedict, opposing the petition for a writ of
mandamus, cited: Ex arte Railway Co., 103 U. S: 794;: Ex
parte Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,108 U. S. 566; In re Pennsylvania, Co., 137 IT. S. 451; Providence & N
. ASteamship
Co. v. Hill .Manufacturing Co., 109 U. S. 578; The City of
Yorwich, 118 U. S. 468; Norwich Co. v. Wright, 13 Wall.
104; I-n re Garnett, 141 U. S. 1; Butler v. Boston & Sazvannah Steamship Co., 130 U. S. 527.
-Hr. John Lowell, with whom was -Yr. William D. Sohier,
opposing the petition for a writ of prohibition, cited: Ex
parte Gordon, 104 U. S. 515; Ex arte Ferry Co., 104 IU. S.
519; E oparte Slayton, 105 U. S. 451; Smith v. Wtitney, 116
U. S. 167; In re Ga'rnett, 141 U. S. 1; In re Cooper, 143 U. S.
472; New Lamp Chimney Co. v. Ansonia Bras&and Copper
Co., 91 U. S. 656; Jennings v. Carson,4 Cranch, 2 ; Brown V.
Bridge, 106 Mass. 563; lrorwich Co. v., Wright, 13 Wall. 104;
The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558; The Benefactor, 103 U. S.
239; The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24; S. C. 118 U. S. 507; The
City of Norwich, 118 U. S. 468; Providence& N.
. Steamship. Co. v. Hill 3itanufavturing Co., 109 U. S. 578; Butler v.
Boston & Savannah Steamship Co., 130 U. S. 527; The Cargo
ex Venus, L. R. 1 Ad. & Ece. 50; The Thales, 10 Blatchford,.
vOL. cXLVI-2

OCTOBER TERM, "1892.
Opinion of the Court.-

203; S'. C. 3 Ben. 327; The .MeZlona, 3 W. Rob. 16 , The .Margaret,.2 Hagg. 275, n; The Hero, Brown. & Lush. 447; The
Corner,Brown. & Lush. 161; The Virgo, 13 Blatchford, 255;
The City of Hariford,11 Fed. IRep. 89; The -Fairport,
8 P. D.
48; The Freedom, 3 Ad. & Ecc. 495; The Flora, 1 Ad. &
Ece. 45; United States v. Ames, 99 U. S. 35; The Palm'yra,,
i2 Wheat. 1; The Wanata, 95 U. S. 600; The Steamer Webb,
14 Wall. 406; The City of Norwich, 118 U. S. 468.

MP.. JusTiou BLATCHFO D delivered the opinion of the court.'
On the 24th of July, 1892, between 8 and 9 o'clock A.M. a
collision took place between the steam yacht Alva, at anchor
on Ngantu6ket Shoals, in Vineyard Sound, and owned by Willam L Vanderbilt, of the city of New York, and the freight
steamship H. F, Dimock, running regularly between Boston
and the city of New York, and beloriging to the Metropolitan
Steamship Company, a Massachusetts corporation. The collision occurred during a thick fog, and, as a consequence of it,
:the Alva sank.
On. the 16th of August, 1892, the steamship .company filed
a libel and petition in the District Court of the United States
for the District of Massachusetts against Vanderbilt, as ownei
of the Alva, in a case of limitation of liability, civil and maritime. It set forth the particulars of the collision and the sinking of the. Alva, denied that theie was any want of care on the
part of the Dimock, and averred that the collision, and the
damag6 occasioned thereby, were caused by the carelessness
and incompetence of those in 6harge of the Alva, and their
negligence in anchoring where they did; that the Alva was
claimed to be worth over $250,000, which was greatly in
excess of the value of the Dimock and the latter's freight
then pending, that being less than $150,000; that the petitioner denied and contested its liability, and that of the
Dimock, for any loss or damage suffered by the Alva or her
owner, or by any persons on board of her, but feared that
suits or libels might be brought against the petitioner, or the
Dimock, anddamages he claimed in excess of the value of the

IN

'

MORRISOlN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

Iimock and her freight then pending; that the petitioner
claimed the benefit of the limitation of liability provided for
inJ§ 4283 and 4284, chapter 6, title 48, of the Revised Statutes of the United States; and that, if the court decided that
any damage was occasioned by the negligence of the Dimock,
or those in charge of her, for which -the Dimock was liable,
'the petitioner claimed that its liability as her owner should be
limited to. the value of the vessel a.nd -herfreight pending -t
the time of the collision.
The prayer of the libel and petition was (1) that the court
would cause due appraisement to be had of the value of theDimock on the 24th of July, 1892, and of her -freight then
pending, and would make an order for the giving of a tipulation, with securities for the payment of the same into court
whenever it should be ordered; (2) that the court would issue
a monition against all persons claiming damages for loss occasioned by said collision, citing them to appear before -thecourt
and make due proof of their respective clains-.before a day to
be named in the monition; (3)that the court would designate
a commissioner, before whom such claims should be presented
in pursuance of the monition, to make report thereof to the
court; and that the petitioner might be at liberty to contest
its liability, and the liability of. the Dimock, for all such loss,
independently of the limitation of liability claimed; (4) that
the court would make an order restraining all pers6 ns from
prosecuting suits against the. petitioner and the Dimock, except
before such commissioner and in the proceeding thus instituted,
and that if, upon the coming in of the report of th. commissioner and its confirmation, it should appear that the petitioner and the Dimock were not liable for such loss, it might
be so decreed; (5) that if the court should decree that any
person or persons were entitled to maintain claims against the
petitioner or the Dimock, on account of any loss by the collision, it would, also decree that, the liability of the petitioner
should in no event exceed the value of the Dimock and her
freight pending at the time of the collision, and that the petitioner and the vessel should be forever exempt from all further
liabilities in the premises, that the moneys secured to be paid

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

into court, after paying costs and expenses, should be divided
.Pro rata amone the several claimants in proportion to the
amount of their respective claims, and that in the meantime,
and until the final judgment of the court, it would make an
order restraining the further prosecution of any suits against
the petitioner or the Dimock in respect of any such claims;
and (6) for other relief.
On the 25th of August, 1892, the libel and petition was
amended by adding an averment that, at the time it was filed,
the Dimock was, and ever since had been, lying in the port of
Boston, and within the admiralty jurisdiction and process of
the District Court.
On the 16th of August, 1892, the District Court for Massa-chusetts issued a warrant to the marshal of the district, directing -him to cause the Dimock and her pending freight to be
appraised on oath by three appraisers named in the warrant,
to be duly sworn. The appraisers made oath before the clerk
of the court that they would appraise the vessel and her pending freight according to their best skill and judgment. On
the 17th of August, 1892, the three appraisers reported to the
court that, after a strict examination and careful:inquiry, they
estimated and appraised the Dimock at $80,000, and her
freight pending at the time of the collision at $2395.33.
On the latter day the court made an order setting forth
that, whereas it appeared that "due appraisement" had been
had of the amount or value of the interest of the petitioner in
the Dimock and her pending freight at the time alleged in the
petition, and the value thereof had been found to be as stated
in the report, and ordering that the petitioner give proper
stipulation, with sureties, for the payment into court of the
sums named, whenever the same should be ordered. Oir the
same day, a stipulation was filed, signed by the petitioner
and by two sureties, each of whom justified in the sum of
$200,000, which stipulation stated that the petitioner and the
two sureties, "submitting themselves to the jurisdiction of this
court," bound themselves, their heirs, executors and adminiserators, jointly and severally, in the sum of $82,395.33, unto
iifilliam K Vanderbilt, owner of the Alva, and all other per-

IN RE MORRISON, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

sons claiming damages in the proceedings, that the petitioner
should abide by all orders and decrees, interlocutory- or final,
of the court, and should pay the amount of its final decree,
and all sums that the petitioner should be ordered to pay by
such final decree, whether in the District Codrt, or any appellate court; and that, unless it should do so, the signers consented that execution should issue against them, their heirs,
executors and administrators, jointly and- severally, and their
lands, goods and chattels, wherever found, to the value of the
sum above mentioned, without further notice or delay.
On the same day, the District Court-issued a moiition to
the marshal, commanding him to give notice to Vanderbilt
and to all persons concerned, of the filing of the libel or petition, and of its substance ; to cite Vanderbilt and all persons
claiming damages for any loss occasioned by said collision to
appear before the court, at Boston, on or before November 25;
1892, and make due proof of their. respective claims in the
premises; to serve.a copy of the monition on Vanderbilt, if
he should be found within that district; to give further notice
by advertising the same in a specified newspaper published
at Boston, at least sixty days before such return day; and
to post a copy of the notice at the court house in Boston.
*The marshal made return, on September 2,. 1892, that he had
advertised the monition three times, on August 19 and 26,
and September 2, in the designated newspaper, hhd posted
a copy of it in the court house at Boston on August 19, and
on the same day had given a further notice to Vanderbilt, by
mailing to him an attested copy of the monition, by registered
letter, to his house at Newport.
On the 17th of August, 1892, the District Court also made
al order enjoining Vanderbilt and all persons claiming damages for any loss arising out of the matters and acts alleged in
said libel and petition, from prosecuting any suit or suits against
the libellant or petitioner, as owner of the Dimock, or against
that vessel, in respect to any claim or'claims arising out of.
said collision, "except in these proceedings." On the 20thb
of:August, 1892, a deputy of the United States marshal for
the District of Massachusetts mailed an attested copy of such

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

restraining order to :Root & Clarke, attorneys for Vanderbilt,
at New York. '
On'tbe 30th of September, 1892, Henry Morrison, who was
the master of the Alva, and on board of her at the time of the
collision, filed a libel in the District Court of the United States
for the Southern District of New York, against the Metropolitan Steamship Company, the Dimock, Vanderbilt, and all
persons claiming damages against that company or the Dimock
by reason of said collision, in a cause civil and maritime, of
apportionment of limited liability pursuant to § 4284 of the
Revised Statutes. The libel set forth the particulars of the
collision, and averred that it was not caused by any neglect
or fault of the libellant, or of any of the persons on board
of and having charge of the Alva, but was wholly due to
the fault of those in charge of the Dimock, in seven specified
particulars. It averred that by the collision -the Alva and
the personal effects of Vanderbilt on board of her were totally
lost; that Vanderbilt had sold the wreck at public auction
f6r $3500; that immediately prior to the collision the yacht
was of the value, at least, of $300,000, and the personal effects
of Vanderbilt so lost were of the value of more than $5000;
that Vanderbilt had notified the steamship company that he
would hold it responsible for the loss and damage so suffered
by him; that at the time of the collision the libellant had on
board of the Alva personal effects of his own, of which a list
was given, amounting in value to over $1300, which were
wholly lost; that divers other persons had suffered losses and
destruction of property on board of the Alva by such collision;
that all of such loss and damage was without the privity or
knowledge of the steamship company, and by law its liability
did not exceed the value of its interest in the Dimock and her
freight then pending ; that the whole value of the Dimock,
and her freight for the voyage she was making, was not sufficient to make compensation to the persons who suffered loss
by such collision, and they were by law entitled to receive
compensation. from the owner of the Dimock only in proportion to their respective losses; that the value of the Dimock
at the time of the collision, and at the termination of the

IN RE MORRISON , Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

voyage she was then making, exceeded $200,000, and her
freight then pending exceeded $2300; that the amount to be
apportioned among the several persons who so suffered loss
by such collision exceeded $202,300; that the Dimock had
not been libelled or arrested in any court to answer for such
loss, and her owner had not theretofore been sued in that
behalf; and that the Dimock was then within the Southern
District of New York, and subject to the control of the court
for the purposes of the proceeding.
The prayer of the libel was, that the court would proceed
to establish the loss suffered in the premises by all persons
who might make any claim of liability therefor against the
Dimock or her owner, and would proceed in due course to
ascertain the value of the Dimock and her freight then pending, and the proportionate amount of compensation for said
matters which the. libellant was entitled to receive from the
owner of the Dimock, and to decree the payment thereof
against either the Dimock or her owner, or both, as might be"
lawful and proper; and for further relipf; that process might
issue against the Dimock, and she be condemned and sold to
pay said damages; and that the steamship company, Vanderbilt, and all persons claiming to have suffered loss by such
collision might be cited in due form to appear and answer,
and to prove their claims in that behalf.
Under process duly issued on that libel, the Dimock was
attached by the marshal on September 30, 1892, in the
Southern District of New York, and on the 1st of October,
1892, in that district, process of monition was duly served by
him on the steamship company; and on the same day proctors for Vanderbilt duly entered their appearance for him in
the suit.
On the 1st of October, 1892, on an affidavit, and on all the
pleadings and proceedings, the District Court of the United
States for the-Southern District of New York made an order
for Morrison to show -causd why his libel should not be dismissed as to the Dimock and the steamship company, and the
process issued against the Dimock be set. aside, and the steamship company have such other or further relief as might be

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Coart.

just. The motion of the steamship company to that effect
was heard on the papers mentioned, on additional affidavits
on behalf of that company, on a copy of the record of the
District Court in Massachusetts, and on affidavits On the part
of the libellant; and on the 7th of .October, 1892, the District
Courtz held by Judge Brown, made an order directing that
the process issued on Morrison's libel be vacated; that the
service thereof on the steamship company be set aside; that
the Dimock be released and set free from the attachment;
and that the libel be dismissed. The order further said: "This
order is made upon the grounds and for the reasons stated in
the opinion filed this day, to which reference is hereby made
as a part hereof."
In the opinion of Judge Brown, so referred to, (The H. F.
Dimock, 52 Fed. Rep. 598,) it was held that Morrison had
notice, before his libel was filed, of the proceedings in the
District Court in Massachusetts, and of the injunction order
issued by that court on August 17, 1892. The opinion considered the contention of Morrison that the District Court in
Massachusetts never acquired jurisdiction or authority to issue
the restraining order, on the grounds that the Dimock had
never been arrested by or. surrendered to that court, nor had
any stipulation been given for her proper value, as a substitution for her, under Rule 54 of this court in admiralty, and
because the appraisement proceeding was ep ]ate and without-any notice of it, or of the application for it, having been
given, or attempted to be given, to Vanderbilt or any other
creditor, and because the appraisement was for less than onehalf of the value of the vessel, and that, therefore, the appraisement was not a "due appraisement," within Rule 54. The
District Court in New York held that the original ex2artM
appraisement and stipulation were not a finality, incapable of
subsequent inquiry or corrction by the court on due application; that it was cbmpetent for the District Court in Massachusetts to order a reappraisement and further security, upon
application by any creditor, showing that the previous appraisement was mistaken and inadequate, and that the duty of the
appraisers had been performed inadequately; that the matter

IN RE MORRISON, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

fell within the domain of practice, to be regulated by that
District Court, in the absence of any express rule of this court,
as the interests of justice seemed to demand; that, as Rule 54
of this court did not in terms require any notice to creditors
of the original appraisement and stipulation, the District
Court was not prepared to hold that the "due appraisement,"
provided for by that rule, might not be, in the first instance,
an expa' one, to be supplemented thereafter, if unsatisfactory, by further inquiry on the application of a creditor; that
the want of notice did not constitute a jurisdictional defect in
the appraisement and stipulation, so as to render void the
order for a monition and other subsequent steps in the cause,
including the injunction against all other suits, provided for
by Rule 54; that the prior proceeding in the District Court in
MNassachusetts was valid, and the libel of Morrison was improperly filed; and that it should be dismissed.
On the 17th of October, 1892, Morrison presented to this
court a petition for a writ of mandamus directing the District
Court for the Southern District of :New York, and Judge
Brown, notwithstanding the matters contained in the moving
affidavits before that court, and notwithstanding the proceedings in the District Court of the United States in Massachusetts, to vacate the order of October 7,1892, and to reinstate. Morrison's libel and proceed thereon according to law.
Accompanying the petition are copies of all the papers in the
suit of Morrison and of all the papers constituting the record
in the suit in the District Court in Massachusetts. Judge
Brown has made return to the order to show cause, and the
case has been orally argued here by the counsel for both
parties, and full briefs have been submitted to this court.
The District Court in New York disposed of the questionl
before it on the merits, and dismissed the libel. Although in
its opinion the court said that Morrison's libel was "improperly flied," yet the court did not refuse jurisdiction of that
libeL On the contrary, it said that the proceeding by Morrison to limit liability was in accordance with the provisions of
§ 4284: of the Revised Statutes. What it did was to hold that
the libel must be dismissed on the ground that there was a

OCTOBER TERM, 1892."
Opinion of the Court.

valid defence to it, in the prior proceedings instituted in the
District Court for Massachusetts, which court had full jurisdiction of the cause. What it said was that. Morrison's libel
was improperly filed, be.cause it was filed in violation of a
valid restraining order, issued on the 17th of August, 1892, by
the District Court for Massachusetts.
The District Court in New York having dismissed the libel
out of court, on a hearing of the case on the merits, we are
now asked to direct it to vacate its order of dismissal, and to
reinstate the cause, and to proceed upon the libel. This is in
effect asking us to direct the District Court to decide in a
particular way the matter heard before it, which is never the
office of a mandamus. E parte .Morgan, 114 U. S. 174; E
parte Brown, 116 U. S. 401.
Moreover, the present attempt is one to use a mandamus as
a writ of error, which cannot be done. Es yarte Railway
Co., 103]U. S. 794, 796; Ex partsBaltimore & Ohio Railroad,
108 U. S. 566 ; -Inre Pennsylvania Co., 137 1U. S. 451, 453.
In addition to this, a mandamus is never granted where the
party asking it has another-remedy. In 'e Pennsylvania Co.,
eupra. In the present case, it is claimed by Morrison that the
jurisdiction of the District Court in New York was in issue
before that court. If so, the-remedy of Morrison was by an
appeal from the District Court directly to this court, on the
question of jurisdiction, under § 5 of the act of March 3, 1891,
c. 517, 26 Stat. 827. If the question of the jurisdiction of
the District Court was not in issue before that court, then the
remedy of Morrison, as against the order of the District Court
dismissing his libel, was by an appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit, under § 6 of the same act.
For the foregoing reasons, the prayer of the petition for a
mandaris in No. 8, Original, must be denied.
In No. 9, Original, the quegtion involved is as to the validity
of the proceedings in the District Court for Massachusetts.
Morrison applies to this court for a writ of prohibition to the
District Court for Massachusetts, from proceeding further upon
ihe libel and petition filed in that court by the Metropolitan
Steamship Company. The District Judge has made a return

IN RE MORRISON, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

to the order to show cause, issued on the petition for prohibition, setting forth in full the proceedings before recited, and
stating that due appraisement was made of the Dimock and
her freight, "according to the usual course and practice of the
said District Court in such cases, by three persons known to me
to be persons of integrity, and of skill and experience in such
matters; and such appraisement was duly made and returned."
It is urged for Morrison that, in the libel and petition filed
by the Metropolitan Steamship Company in the District Court
-for Massachusetts, the company did not ask for the appointment of a trustee, or'convey or offer to'convey, its interest in
the Dimock and her pending freight to a trustee, pursuant to
4285 of the Reviised Statutes of the United States; that it did
not allege, in its original libel and petition, that the vessel was
within the District of- Massachusetts, nor pray any process
against her, nor in any way surrender her to the custody of
the said District Court; that it did not offerin case the court
should adjudge the company to be liable to any extent for the
collision, to pay the value of the vessel and-freight into court
for distribution; that it did not allege that any person except
Vanderbilt suffered loss by the collision; that the order issued
by the District Court in Massachusetts, on August 17, 1892,
was not a mere temporary restraining order, to last only until
a hearing could be had, but was an absolute injunction, whichcontained no provision for a hearing of the damage claimants
on the matter thereof, and did not purport to be made on
notice and an opportunity to be heard, given to any person
interested adversely to the steamship company; that the
amendment to the libel was not made until August 27, 18,92;
that the Dimock was never attached by any process issued out
of the District Court for Massachusetts, and that court newer
took her into its custody or assumed control of her; that"t
appeared by affidavit that, after the libel in Massachusetts Was
amended, and before Morrison's libel was filed in the Southern
District of New York, the Dimock departed from the District
of/Massachusetts and was no longer in that district or subject
to the control of the court for that district, or within the reach
of the process of that court, such departure being without any

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

obligation to return the vessel into that district, and without
any leave of that court obtained or sought; that the only thing
left within the Massachusetts district to be, divided among
damage claimants, and subject to be disposed of by the decree
of the court for that district, in the proceeding there pending,
was the stipulation so given; that no notice of the appraisement proceedings, or of the stipulation proceedings, or of -the
injunction proceedings, was required by the court to be given
to any damage claimant, and neither Morrison nor any other
damage claimant had in fact any notice thereof or any opportunity. to be heard thereon; that neither Morrison, nor Vanderbilt nor any damage claimant had been served personally
with process in the Massachusetts district, or had entered any
appearance in the Massachusetts court; that Vanderbilt had
received a copy of the monition and of the injunction order,
but not within the district of Massachusetts, and not until after
August 17, 1892; -and that Morrison had not been served with
any paper in the Massachusetts proceedings, either within or
without the Massachusetts district.
It is further contended, that Morrison and Vanderbilt have
been deprived of their remedy against the Dimock and her
owners, and are confined to a proceeding to obtain a share of
the amount mentioned in the stipulation; that no court has
tower to give relief beyond a share in that amount, because
the Dimock departed from the jurisdiction of the District
Court for Massachusetts, and her owners never submitted
themselves to the jurisdiction of that court by any offer to
pay any sum in excess of that- amount; that that result had
been accomplished by a proceeding wholly e parte, without
actual or constructive notice and without any opportunity
for a hearing, on the part of Morrison, or Vanderbilt, or
any other person adversely interested; that the appraisement,
stipulation and injunction proceedings in the Massachusetts
court, having been taken without any notice or opportunity
to be heard given to the damage sufferers, were wholly
without effect upon the -rights of the latter, and- did not
destroy Morrison's capacity to sue, and did not discharge
the steamship company or the Dimock from liability to be

IN RE MORRISON, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

sued; that Morrison acquired by the collision a right to re
cover damages to some extent against the company owning
the Dimock, personally, in any District Court which could
obtain personal jurisdiction of that company; that he acquired
a right also to recover damages to some extent against the
vessel, in any District Court which could obtain jurisdiction
in term against her; that his right against the vessel is not a
right of action merely, but is ajusin re and a property interest in her, of which he cannot be deprived without due process
of law; that the limited liability act did not take away or
affect any such rights ex .poprio vigore, as an exercise of the
legislative power of the United States, but left such rights to
be limited and qualified judicially by the courts; that after
the collision, and before the company fied its libel in Massachusetts, Morrison, by virtue of that statute, had a right td
prosecute an apportionment suit in any District Court which
could acquire jurisdiction in rem of the Dijnock, and in ersonatm of her owner, and of all known damage claimants, and
the further right *tohave any such court adjudicate upon the
questions (1) whether the company and the Dimock were
liable to any extent, that is to say, whether the collision was
caused by fault on the part of the Dimock; (2) if so, how
much was the value of the company's interest in the Dimock
and her freight for the voyage; (3) whether the aggregate
losses of all the damage sufferers exceeded that value; and (4)
if they did, how, or in what proportions, the amount of that
value ought to be divided among the sufferers; and that the
only ways in which the Massachusetts proceedings could have
affected such statutory right of Morrison were (1) by destroying his personal capacity to sue; (2) by releasing the company
and the Dimock from liability to be sued; and (3) by conferring upon the court in Massachusetts exclusive jurisdiction 'to
determine those four questions, which were presented alike by
the company's libel and by Morrison's libel.
It is contended, also, that the "due process of law," guaranteed to every person by Article 5 of the Amendments to the
Constitution of the United States, implies, with reference to
proceedings under the judicial power of the United States,

OCTOBER TERIV, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

notice of some kind, and opportunity to be heard, not only as
a requisite, but as a prerequisite; that the rights of the damage claimants had never been submitted or subjected in any
form to the Massachusetts Court; that proceedings in court, of
which the persons whose rights purported to be affected thereby
had no actual or constructive notice, and in which they had no
opportunity to be heard, were ineffective and were not judicial
proceedings; that it could not be said that an opportunity to
be heard would necessarily, and as matter of law, have been
of no advantage to the damage claimants, for they might have
convinced the court (1) that the appraisement ought to have
been made on sworn testimony, with an opportunity to both
sides to produce and cross-examine witnesses; or (2) that the
experts selected were not competent or were not impartial; or
(3) that the appraisers' report ought to have been rejected,
because it did not show the plans on which they proceeded, or
as of what time the value of the Timock was taken, or because
the appraisers did not personally examine her; or (4) that the
stipulation should have been broad enough to cover not merely
what the appraisers estimated to be the value of the company's
interest in the Dimock and her freight, but also what the damage claimants asserted the value of such interest to be, so that;
if, on final hearing, the issue tendered in the company's libel
and petition as to such value was determined in favor of the
damage claimants, the court would have some means of compelling the company to pay the adjudicated value into court
for distribution; or (5) that the sureties on the stipulation were
insufficient; or (6) the court might have been convinced that,
for the reasons above stated, no injunction ought to issue, or
else, only on condition that the company bound itself with
sureties, to pay into court the -valueof its vessel and fieight, as
finally adjudicated, or that the rights of the parties could be
more conveniently and justly determined by permitting the
damage claimants to assert their claims in their own way, and
allowing the steamship company to set up the apportionment
proceedings as a plea, or that no injunction ought to issue until
the value of the vessel and freight had been adjudicated, and
paid into court, or secured to be paid.

IN RE MORRISONT, Petitioner.

31

Opinion of the Court.

It is further urged, that the proceedings in Massachusetts
were not, as matter of law, equivalent to a transfer of the
Dimock and her freight by the company to a trustee under
§ 4285 of the Revised Statutes; that they were very far from
being an equivalent in fact; that there is nothing in the statute which authorizes the owner of a vessel, at his option, either
to transfer his interest in the vessel and freight to a trustee, or
to pay into court the value thereof as determined by an ex
*parte appraisement, or which .declares that it shall be a sufficient compliance with the statute on the part of the owner if
he pays or secures to be 1aid into court the value so appraised,
or which provides that, after such paym~ht all suits and proceedings against the owner shall cease; and that the act leaves
the creation of a substitute in lieu of a transfer to a trustee, to
a court which proceeds judicially.
It is further contended, that the rights of the damage claimants against the company and the Dimock, arising out of the
collision, remained precisely as they were before the company
filed its libel and petition in Massachusetts; that those rights
were never transferred from the company and the vessel to the
fund represented by the stipulation; that said fund cannot be
regarded as the fund to be apportioned among the damage
claimants, as it had never been adjudicated orjudicially established to be such; that, if Morrison's right to proceed against
the company and Jihe vessel in the Southern District 'of . ew
York had been taken away or suspended by the proceeding in
Massachusetts, it must be for some other reason than (1) that
the court in Massachusetts had adjudicated that damage claimants ought to be enjoined from proceeding in any other court;
or (2) that such, claimants had been incapacitated or rendered
personally incompetent to sue; or (3) that the company and the
Dimock had been released and discharged from liability to be
sued; and that the only o)ther way in which Morrison's right
to proceed in New York could have been aiffecte& was that the
jurisdiction of the court in Massachusetts over the subjectmatter had somehow become exclusive, so that Morrison could
proceed against the company and the vessel only in that, forum.
It is also contended, that the court in Massachusetts was not

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

competent to adjudicate the question whether or not the collision was caused by fault on the part of the Dimock, because
it did not acquire personal jurisdiction of one or more of the
damage claimants or jurisdiction i rem of the Dimock; that
the fund represented by the stipulation had not been judicially
substituted for the Dimock, and she had not been discharged
'from liability for the collision; that, as she still remained
liable for it, nothing but possession and control of her would
authorize any court to pronounce a judgment in '&mas to her
liability; that the court in Massachusetts had never actually
assumed possession and control of her by the officers of the
court, by seizure or otherwise, or jurisdiction of her; that,
whatever jurisdiction that court acquired of her by her having
been within the district when the company's libel and petition
was filed, was lost, and all the rights of the company arising.
therefrom were abandoned by the company's having taken the
Dimock , before the return day of the monition, out of the district, to the port of INVw York, without leave of the court or
procuring any release or discharge of her, or entering into any
obligation to bring her back; that the court in Massachusetts
never acquired personal jurisdiction over Morrison or any other
damage claimant; that, there having been no voluntary appearance of any damage claimant, service of process within the
Massachusetts district was essential; and that no process had
been served on Morrison or Vanderbilt within that district.
It is further contended, that the court in Massachusetts did
not acquire jurisdiction to determine any of the other questions
presented by the two libels; that what the steamship company
ought to have done was to make in its libel an unconditional
offer, substantially in the terms of the statute, to pay into court
for partition among the damage sufferers whatever the court
should. determine was the value of the conpany's interest in
the Dimock and her freigbt; that the only offer which could
be implied from the libel was one to pay or secure to be paid
the amouht at which the court might cause the value of the
vessel and her freight to be duly appraised; that such offer
was insufficient, because it did not mean the amount which the
court should adjudicate, after hearing the parties adversely

IN RE MORRISON, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

interested, to be such value; that such offer of the company
having been complied with to the expressed satisfaction of the
court, no power was left to that court to compel the company
to pay anything more than the appraised amount, even if the
court should find, on the proofs, that the value of the Dimock
and her. freight was greater; that, as the vessel had been taken
out of the Massachusetts district, there was nothing left within
the reach or control of the Massachusetts court,, except the
stipulation for an amount which Morrison and Vanderbilt
allege was less than one-half the true amount; and that, even
if they should appear in the Massachusetts court and establish
by proof that the liability of the company was not less than
$200,000, that court could do nothing against the will of the
company.
We are of opinion that none of the views above stated are
sufficient to show that this is a proper ease for a writ of prohibition. The only question involved is that of the jurisdiction of the District Court of Massachusetts. EJ'eparte Gordon,
104 U. S. 515; xparte Ferry Company, 104: U. S. 519; Ex
2arte Slayton, 105 U. S. 451; Smith v. Whitney,.116 U. S.
167; In re Garnett, 1411U. S. 1; In re Cooper, 143 U. S.
472, 495.
Under Rule 57 in admiralty, prescribed by this court, (130
U. S. 705,) the Dimnok not having been libelled to answer for
the loss resulting from the collision, and no suit therefor
having been comnenced against her owner, the proceedings
were instituted lawfully in the District Court in Massachusetts, that being the district in which the vessel was at the
time the proceedings were instituted, and she being at that
time subject to the control of that court for the purposes of
the case, as provided by Rule 51, 137 U. S. 711, and Rules 55
and 56, 13 Wall. 13.
As to the contention that, in order to- retain ju'sdiction,
the Massachusetts court should have kept possession of the
Dimock until Morrison or Vanderbilt, or both of them, should
have chosen to appear in the cause, and that, by allowing her
to go to New York, in the ordinary course of her business,
after the stipulation had been given, the District Court in
I VOL. CXLVII-3

OCTOBER TEfM; 180g.
Opinion..a fthe Court.

Massachusetts lost such jurisdiction as it bad acqifred, there
are several sufficient answers:
(1) The proceeding to limit liability is not an action against
the vessel and her freight, except when they are surrendered
to a trustee, but is an equitable action.
(2) It was not necessary, in order to sustain the proceeding
for limiting liability, that Morrison or Vanderbilt should have
been personally served with notice thereof within the district
of 'Massachusetts, or that the Dimock should have- been taken
and held by the court. The decisions of this court have established the power of Congress to pass the statute, and of
the courts of admiralty jurisdiction to enforce it; and its
enforcement would be impracticable under the restrictions
which Morrison seeks to impose. NYorwich Co. v. Wright, 13
Wall. i04:; The Benefactor, 103 U. S. 239; Providence and.
New rork Steamship Co. v. Xlii- Yfg. Co., 109 U. S. 578; The
City of _Norwich, 118 U. S. 468,; The Scotland, 118 U. S. 507;
.Butlerv. Boston and Savannah Steamship Co., 130 U. S. 527..
(3) The filing of the libel andpetition of the steamship
company, with the offer to give a stipulation, conferred jurisdiction upon the court, and no subsequent irregularity in
procedure could take away such juiisdiction.
(4) Although some prior notice of the holding of the appraisement might very well have beenserved upon Vanderbilt, even if he was out of the jurisdiction of the Massachusetts
court, he having been named in the libel and petition as a
respondent, yet the appraisement exparte was not void, because :Rule 54: does not require prior notice of the appraisement
to be given to any one, and only requires a monition to be
issued after a stipulation has been given or a transfer has been
made to a trustee.
(5) The making of the appraisement exeparte, and the taking
of the stipulation thereupon, were, at most, an irregularity
which the District Court could correct. The Thales, 3 Benedict, 327, 330, and 10 Blatchford, 203; The Benefactor, 103
U. S. 239, 247. The stipulation stands in the place of the
vessel and her freight, leaving to the court its usual power to
act, on proper application, in respect to giving a new or further

IN RE MORRISON, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.
stipulation. The TWanata, 95 U. S. 600, 611 ; United States v.
Ames, 99 U. S. 35, 36; The City of Norwich, 118 U. S. 468,
489. The District Court for lMassachusetts has- the whole
matter within its control, for the steamship company, by. its
libel and petition, has submitted itself to the jurisdiction of
that court; and if it should fail to comply with a future order
of that court in respect to giving.a new or further stipulation,
on a -further appraisement,- that court could stay its further
proceedings, deny it all relief, and dismiss its libel and petition.
Section 4285 of the Revised Statutes provides that it shall
be deemed a sufficient compliance on the part of the owner of
a vessel with the requirements of the statute relating to his
liability for loss, if he shall transfer his interest in the vessel
and freight for the benefit of the claimants to a trustee, and
that, after such transfer, all claims and proceedings against
the owner shall cease. Rule 54 of the rules in admiralty
prescribed by this court provides that when a libel br petition
is filed in the proper District Court, as provided by Rule 57,
claiming a limitation of liability and praying proper relief in
that behalf, the court, having caused due appraisement to be
had, shall make an order for the payment of the amount into
court, or for the giving of a stipulation, with sureties, to pay
the same into court whenever ordered, or, if the owner so
elects, make an order, without such appraisement, for the
transfer by the owner of his interest in the vessel and freight
to a trustee to b6 appointed by the court, and upon compliance with such order, issue a monition notifying all persons
claiming damages to make proof of their claims, and also
make an order restraining the further prosecution of all suits
against the owner in respect of any such claims.
The validity of the provision for a stipulation has been. upheld by this court in Providenceand YTew York Steamship Co.
v. -Hill 3 lfg. Co., 109 U. S. 578, 600, in which it said: "The
operation of the act in this behalf cannot be regarded as confined to cases of actual 'transfer,' (which is merely allowed as
a sufficient compliance with the law,) but must be regarded,
when we consider its reason and equity and the whole scope
of its provisions, as extending to cases in which what is re-

