DOYLE v, uTION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO.'

413

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

until Congress- took action on the subject, wholly under the
control of the authorities of the State. County of Mobile v.
.imball, 102 U. S. 691, 699; ±scanaba Co. v. Chicago, 107
U. S. 678.
It follows from the views expressed that the judgment of
the Supreme Cour. of Illinois should have been for the plaintiff below, the plaintiff in error here. Its judgment will,
therefore, be
Reversed and the cause remanded to that court for further
_vroceedings not incortistent with this qpinion.

DOYLE v. UNION PACIFIO RAILWAY COMPANY.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO- THE CIRoUIT cOURT OF THE UnTED STATES .EOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Hoz. IGO,10L Argued January 3, 1893.-Decided January 23, 1893.

An agreement between a railroad company and an individual that the latter
shall occupy a section-house of the company, and shall board there the
section hands and other employ~s of the company at an agreed rate, the'
company to aid in collecting the payment out of the wages of the employfs, does not create the relation of master and servant between the
company and the indii!dual, but does create a tenancy terminable tt the
will, of the company.
In the absence of fraud, misrepresentation or deceit, a landlord is not
responsible for injuries happening to his tenant by reason of a suow-sllde
or avalanche.
It is not reversible error in a judge of a Federal Court to express his own
opinion of the facts, if the rules of law dre correctly laid down, and If
the jurors are given to understand that they are not bound by such
expressions of opinion.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
3r.

T. X. Patercon for plaintiff in error.

414 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

.Th. J 7n F. Dillon,-(with whom was

Xr.MH

.1ztard
bb

on the brief,) for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE SHinAS delivered the opinion of the court.
In the early part of :November, A. D.1883, Marcella Doyle,
a widow, with a family of six children, agreed with the Union
Pacific Railway Company to occupy the cbmpany's sectionhouse, situated on the line of the railroad at or near Woodstock, in the county of Chaffee and State of Colorado, and
to board at said section-house such section hands and other
employ~s of the company as it should desire, at the rate of
four and one half dollars per week, to be paid by the persons
so to be boarded, and the company agreed to aid her in collecting her pay for such board by retaining the same for her
out of the wages of the employ~s so to be boarded.
Mrs. Doyle moved with her children into the section-h6use,
and continued in the discharge of her duties as boarding-house
keeper until the 10th day of March, A. D.1884, when a snowslide overwhelmed the section-house, injured Mrs. Doyle, and
crushed to death the six children residing with her.
Subsequently, Marcella Doyle brought, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Colorado, two actions
against the Union Pacific Railway Cumpany, one for her
personal injuries, the other for damages suffered by her in the
loss of her children, and which latter action was based on a
statute of the State of Colorado.
The actions resulted in verdidts and judgments in favor of
the defendant company, and the cases have been brought to
this court by writs of error. As the cases turn upon the same
facts and principles of law, they can be disposed of together.
The record discloses that the facts of the case, as claimed by.
the *respective parties, and certain admissions by the defendant
company, were stated in a bill of exceptions, and upon which
instructions by the court were given which are made the subject of the assignments of error.
The bill of exceptions was as follows:
"Be it remembered that on the. trial of this cause, at the

DOYLE v. UNIO1

PACIFIC RAILWAY CO.

415

Opinion of the Court.

November term A. D. 1886, of the said Circuit Court, the defendant admitted, and such admissions were received in evidence before the jury "That the plaintiff was at the several times named in the
complaint a widow and the mother of the said Martin Doyle,
Andrew Doyle, Christopher Doyle, Catharine Doyle, Marcella
Doyle and Maggie Doyle, mentioned and named in the complaint as the children of the plaintiff, and as having each and
all been killed by a snow-slide at Woodstock, in the month of
March, A. D.1884.
"That her husband and the father of said children had died
previously to their death; that each of said children was of
the age and sex stated in the complaint; was each unmarried
and had no child nor children, and had each lived with their
said mother, making their home with her up to the time of
their death, and were each then living with the plaintiff, aiding and assisting her in and about making a living, and in
about her duties and labors in the keeping of the section-house
of the defendant at Woodstock, in the county of Chaffee and
State of Colorado, where said children were killed ; that said
children were all killed while in said section-house, on the 10th
day of March, A. D..1884, by a snow-slide, which then and
there occurred from the mountain side above said sectionhouse; that said section-house was built and used by the defendant as and for a section-house and a place at 'which the
section hands of the defendant, who should work on said section, could board and lodge.
"That on or about the 5th day of November, A. D. 1883, at
the instance and request of the defendant and for the 'mutual
benefit of herself and the defendant, the plaintiff undertook
and agreed with the defendant to keep for it, during its will
and pleasure, its section-house situated at or near Woodstock,
on the line of its railroad, in the county of Chaffee and State
of Colorado; that by the said agreement between her and the
defendant the plaintiff was to provide and furnish board at
said section-house for such section hands and other emplby~s
of the defendant as it should desire, at the rate of four and
one-half dollars per week, to be paid by the persons so fur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

nished with such board, but the defendant was to aid and
assi,, the plaintiff in collecting her pay for such board by stopping and retaining the same for her out of the wages of those
so furnished with such board; that plaintiff thereupon, to
wit, on the said 5th day of November, A. D. 1883, moved into
said section-house with her family and entered upoil the discharge of her duties as the keeper thereof, and remained there
ilthe discharge of such duties until the occurrence of the snowslide, on the 10th of M arch, A. D. 1884; that the defendant
did not at any time notify or apprise the plaintiff or either of
her said children or cause her or either of them to be notified
or apprised of the danger of a snow-slide or snow-slides or of
the liability of a.snow-slide or snow-slides at such place where
said section-house then was or in that locality. And the
plaintiff, further to maintain the issues on her part, introduced
evidence tending to show that said section-house was a onestory frame building and was constructed in 1882, about the
time that m-aid railroad was first operated in that section of the
country; was situated in the mountains, near the base of a
high and steep mountain, and in a place subject to snow-slides
and dangerous on that account; that the sides of the mountain at the base of which was the house in question were
marked by. the tracks of former snow-slides, but only those
familiar with snow-slides and their effects would know what
they meant; that the defendant was aware of said danger at
and before the time it engaged the plaintiff to keep its said
section-house; that the plaintiff and .her said children had
never before resided in a region of country subject to snowslides, and had no knowledge of snow-slides or of their indicatious or of the dangers incident thereto, and was not aware of
the particular danger in question; that there was a pronirience
or hip on this mountain side, about ten or twelv6 hundred
feet above the section-house, which cut off a view of the
mountain side above said hip from the section-house or its
immediate vicinity'; that above said hip there was a large
depression or draw on the mountain side extending from said
hip to the summit, into which great quantities of snow fell
and drifted during the winter season of each year, thus tend-

DOYLE

.

NIONT PACIFIC RAILWAY CO.

417

Opinion of the Court.

ing to create snow-slides of danger to persons in said sectionhouse or its vicinity; that this danger was not apparent even
to a person having knowledge of snow-slides and their causes
without a view or examination of this mountain side above
said hip; that the altitude of said section-house was about
10,200 feet, and of the summit of said mountain nearly 12,000
feet; that the snow-fall there was great in the winter season
of each year, and that depressions on the mountain side were
filled with snow by drifting; that the snow-slide of March
10th, 1884, which killed the said children, proceeded from this
depression above said hip; that a snow-slide of less dimensions
and of less scope and extent occurred there in February, 1883,
in the same place and from the same source, which reached to
within about two hundred feet of said section-house and of
which the defendant had knowledge at the time thereof.
"That the attention of the superintendent of the construction of said railroad and of said section-house was called to the
fact of such danger, at or about the time said section-house
was built, by one of the civil engineers of said defendant who
assisted in locating the line of said railroad.
"That her said son, Andrew Doyle, was an employ6 of the
defendant- a section hand on the same section where, said
section-house was located-at the time he was so killed by
said snoi-slide; that the plaintiff and her said children were
in said section-house at the time the said childrefi were killed,.
and that none of said children were aware of said danger before
the said snow-slide of March 10th, 1884, occurred.
"That through this prominence or hip on the mountain side
there was a chasm or draw from twenty to thirty feet wide,
which continued on down to the section-house, but became
wider after leaving the hip; that with this draw another draw
united about midway between the section-house and the said'
hip and formed one draw from their point of union to the
section-house.
"That this mountain is a part of the range of mountains
known as the Continental Divide, which divides the waters of
the Atlantic from those of the Pacific. At this point above
Woodstock station the course of the mountain is nearly east
VOL. cxLvn-27

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

and west. This railroad passes this mountain by means of a
tunnel called 'Alpine tunnel,' which is to the westward of a
line north of Woodstock and descends this mountain at a heavy
grade, along the side thereof about midway between the section
house and the said hip on the mountain, (which hip is termed
a projection of rocks by some of the witnesses,) and passes on
to the eastward of Woodstock a considerable distance, where
it' turns, and, forming a kind of horseshoe shape, runs back
again past Woodstock, but between the section-house and said
hip- the section-house being below and distant from this
lower trick about two hundred and thirty feet -and the two
tracks forming this horseshoe are both between the section-house and said hip and on a direct line from the section-house up
to the hip. The two tracks are about five hundred feet apart,.
the upper track being about seventy feet higher iii point of
altitude where they cross this line from the section-house to
the hip on the mountain side above; that there was a watertank on the upper side of the lower track fifty or sixty feet to the
westward of the section-house, which water-tank was injured
by the snow-slide of February, 1883.
"That the snow-slide of :March 10th, 1884, spread out as-it
descended the mountain, so that where it passed over the.
lower railroad track its space in width was six or seven hundred feet, and the section-house was not far from the centre
of said snow-slide track.
"That the coptpur of this mountain, beginning at the sectionhouse and ascending the mountain, is about as follows, to wit:
Above the section-house it slopes slowly to the first railroad
track.; then there is a rock-slide; then there is a bench aboye.
that and on. the same level of the upper railroad track, and
above that a steep gorge, and on each sidle of said gorge there
is a thin helt of timber, and betweeh these belts of timber and
along the gorge there is a space from three to four hundred.
feet in width of nothing but rock, with a very steep slope, and
above this slope some very steep rocks, (the hip on the mountain side,) and above this hip is a large, basin .or depression'
extending on up the mountain side three or four thousand feet
long to the summit of the mountain, *hich has an.elevation or

DOYLE v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO.

419

Opinion of the Court.

altitude of about 11,500 feet, the mountain side above the hip
being very steep, having a slope of more than thirty-three
degrees, and from the hip down there is quite a precipitous
piece of rock, not perpendiul C, but quite steep, and after or
below that the slope is at an angle of about twenty-five degrees.
In the basin above the hip there is no timber and in and about
the sectio6n-house there is a space of eight or nine hundred feet
square of [on ?.] which there is no timber except three or four
trees.
. "That the timber on the mountain side was sparse and
scattered; that only a few trees were carried down -by the
snow-slide; that snow-slides do not always follow beaten
tracks made by former snow-slides on the same mountain
side, but frequently depart therefrom; that the'snow-slide
of March- 10th, 1884, separated into broken fragments or
divisions before reaching the base of the mountain,-one of
which struck the section-house,'-resulting in the injuries complained of.
"That the winter of 18834 was severer and the snow. fell
some deeper than,the winter previous thereto, and that it
snowed heavily and continuously from about the first of
March to the 10th of :March, 1884, and the trains had ceased
to run on account of the snow;, that ordinarily in the winter
season the snow was from five to.seven feet deep in said*iocality in places where it did not drift and after it had settled
compactly; that it drifted greatly, filling up basins and depressions on the mountain sides;'that there were rock-slides and
existing evidences of former snow-slides on this mountain side
above said section-house.
"That the snow-slide of February, 1883, deposited snow and.
d~bris on the upper track of the railroad above said sectionhouse from twenty to twenty-five feet deep, and for a considerable space of time from then, during the-remainder of that
winter and the following spring, the said railroad was not
operated on account of the snow.
"And the defendant, to maintain the issueg on its part, in-:
troduced evidence tending to prove that said section-house was
built below the said tracks and behind,' and protected by a

OCTOBER TERA

1892.

Opinion of the Qpurt.-

thick growth of timber above and between said section-house
and the mountain; that there were no marks or tracks of
former snow-slides directly above or in the vicinity of said
section-house; that the defendant was not aware of any danger
from snow-slides at the place where the section-house was
built, but, on the contrary, that ,the officers of the company
had carefully examined the locality where the same was built
and the contour of the mountains above the same to the summit of the range, and that said section-house was built at that
place because the officers of the company thought that it was
[a,] safe place and could not be endangered by snow-slides,
which were apt to occur in that part of the country; that the
prominence -or hip spoken of was a protection against snowslides which might occur on the mountain sides above said
section-house; that an examination of the ground, timber, and
rocks in the vicinity of where the house was built and above,
on the mountain side, showed that there had not been a snowslide there for at least two hundred years; that the snow-slide
of March 10th, 1884, was caused by a storm of unprecedented
severity and duration, and that the same came down through
the timber above said house, breaking down and carrying
with it standing trees, from bushes up to trees two feet in
diameter; that the snow-slide mentioned as occurring in February, 1883, came down a considerable distance to the north
of where the one came down in 1884, and that the snow-slide
in 1883 did no damage except to cover up a short distance of
the railroad track and break in some boards of the house under
the water-tank; that the attention of the superintendent of
construction of said railroad was not called by any one to the
fact of there being any danger from snow-slides at the place
where said section-house was built, but that the conversation
or notice, referred to was in regard to a place a mile or more
fatther up Quartz Creek; that the said Andrew Doyle had
been an employ6 of the defendant a8 a section hand, but
had quit work some days before on account of the road being
blockaded, by snow and all attempts to open it having been
abandoned, and for ten days or more before the snow-slide no
'work whatever was being done by defendant on said road for

DOYLE v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO.

421

Opinion of the Court.

a distance of several miles each way from said Woodstock;
that said prominence or hipi on the mountain side mentioned
by the witnesses tended to ptotect said section-house and its
immediate locality from snow-slides; that there was no chasm
or draw immediately above said section-house, and- that whatever formation of that kind there was on said mountain was a
distance of two hundred feet or more north of said sectionhouse; that said section-house was broken down by said snowslide of March 10th, 1884, by a spreading out of the snow as
it came down the mountain, and that said section-house was
on the southerly side of said snow-slide; that the gorge referred to is simply an opening a few feet Wide in the ridge
of rock referred. to as the hip or prominence; that a short distance above said prominence the general timber line of the
country is reached, above which no timber occurs; that there
was a considerable amount of timber between. said sectionhouse and the first railroad track and a thick growth of large
timber immediately above 'the first railroad track, extending
up some distance towards the second track of the loop, and
some scattering timber above the upper track; that there are
no rock-slides or existing evidences of former snow-slides on
the mountain sides immediately above said section-house.
"And the foregoing was all the evidence in the ckse."
To the answers of the court to the prayers for'instructions,
and to the charge the plaintiff has filed thirteen assignments
of error.
The twelfth assignment alleges that "the Circuit Court
erred in charging the jury substantially to the effect that they
must find for the defendant." And in the brief of the plaintiff in error it is asserted that the answers of the court to the several requests for instructions were in effect directions to
the jury to find for the defendant.
Although, in point of fact, the court did not give the jury
peremptory instructions to find for the defendant, but left the
cases to them on instructions under which they might have
found verdicts for the plaintiff, yet the validity of the plaintiff's exceptions to the court's' treatrhent of the cases may be.
conveniently tested by assuming, for the present, that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

charge and instructions legally amounted to a direction to
find for the defendant. If an examination of the facts and of
the principles of law involved warrants us in concluding that
the court would have been justified in so doing, it will not be
necessary to consider each and every assignment of error nor
to minutely scan isolated expressions used by the court.
The first question to be determined is what was the relation
between the plaintiff and the railway company. Was Mrs.
Doyle a servant or employv of the company, aiding in the
transaction of its business and subject to its directions; or was
she a tenant at will, holding. the premises by an occupation
during the will of the company? The facts averred by the
plaintiff show that the company was not interested, in a legal
sense, in the management of the boarding-house, did not
receive the board money, pay the expenses, take the profits,
or suffer the losses.. The company could not call upon her
for any account, nor could she demand payment from the
company for any services rendered by her in carrying on the
boarding-house. The fact that the company agreed to aid
her in collecting what might be due to her from time to time
by the boarders, by withholding moneys out of the wages
payable to them by the railroad company, did not convert
Mrs. Doyle into a servant of the company or change her
relation to the company as a tenant at will of the company's
house. Such an arrangement might equally have been made
if Mrs. Doyle had been the owner of the house. The court
below was not in error in holding that the relation of the
parties was that of landlord and tenant.
If, then, such was the relation of the parties, upon what
principle can a liability for the damages occasioned by the
snow-slide be put upon the company? There was neither
allegation nor proof of fraud, misrepresentation or deceit, on
the part of the defendant company, as to the condition of the
premises. Indeed, it was not even pretended that the catastrophe was in any way occasioned by the condition of the
house.
It was, indeed, alleged that the section-house was built near
the base of a high and steep mountain, and in a place subject

DOYLE v. UNION PACIFIC RILiLWAY CO.

423

Opinion of the Court.

to snow-slides, and dangerous on that account; that the company was aware of said danger; that the plaintiff and her
children had never befor9 resided in a region of country
subject to snow:slides, and had no knowledge of snow-slides,
or of their indications, or of the dangers incident thereto; and
that the company did not at any time notify or apprise the
plaintiff or her children of the danger of snow-slides or of the
liability of snow-slides at such place where said section then
was or in that locality. And upon this alleged state of facts
it was contended that the jury had a right to find that the
railway company was guilty of carelessness or disregard of
duty towards the plaintiff such as to make it liable in these
actions.
It is, however, well settled that the law does not imply any
warranty on the part of the, landlord that the house is reasonably fit for occupation; much less does it imply a ... ranty
that no accident should befall the tenant from external forces,
such as storms, tornadoes, earthquakes or snow-slides. The
law is thus stated in a well-known work on Landlord-and
Tenant:
"There is no implied warranty on the letting of a house,
that it is safe, well built or reasonably fit for habitation; or
of land, that it is suitable for cultivation, or for any other
purpose for which it was let. And where a person hired a
house and garden for a term of years; to be used for a dwelling-house, but subsequently abandoned it as unfit for habitation, in consequence of its being infested with vermin and
other nuisances, which he was not aware of when he took the
lease, the principle was laid down, after an elaborate review
of all the cas6s where a contrary doctrine seemed to have
prevailed, that there is no implied contract on a demise of real
estate that it shall be fit for the purposes for which it was let.
Consequently an abandonment of the premises under these'
circumstances forms no defence to an action for rent. And,
in all cases where a tenant has been allowed, upon suggestions
of this kind, to withdraw from the tenancy, and refiise the
payment of rent, there will be found to have been a fraudulent
misrepres entation or concealment as to the state of the prem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ises which were the subject of the letting; or else the premises
proved to be uninhabitable by some wrongful act or default
of the landlord himself. The lessor is not, however, always
bound to disclose the state of the premises to the intended
lessee, unless he knows that the house is really unfit. for habitation, and that the lessee does not know it, and is influenced
by, his belief of the soundness of the house in agreeing to take
it for the conduct of the lessor may, in this respect, amount
to a deceit practised upon the lessee." Taylor, Landlord and
Tenant, § 382.
The prinfiples applicable to the present case have been well
tated in the recent case of Bowe v. Hunking, 135 Mass. 380.
The syllabus states the case and decision as follows:
".A:tenant cannot maintain an action agiinst his landlord
for ad injury caused by falling upon a stair in the tenement
the tread of which has been sawed out and left unsupported
by a ,previous tenant,-there having been full opportunity to
examine the stair at the time of hiring, and no warranty of
the'fitness of the tenement having been given by the landlord;
the only evidence of knowledge on the part of the landlord
being that he knew the stair had been sawed out, that he
tried it,
and it bore his weight, and he thought it would bear
anybody's weight."
The judge directed a verdict for defendants, and the Supreme
Court sustained this ruling. Field, J., giving the opinion of
the court, said (p. 383): "There is no warranty implied in the
letting of an unfurnished hous6 or tenement that it is reasonably fit for use (citing cases). The tefiant takes an estate in
the -premises hired, and persons who occupy by his permission,
9r-as members of his family, cannot be considered as occupying by the invitation of the landlord, so as to create a greater
liability on the part of the -andlrd to them than to the tenant.
The tenant is in possession, and he determines who shall
occupyor'enter his premises (citing cases).
"In the case at bar there was no express or implied wariranty,
and fio abtual fraud or misrepresentation. If the action can
-bemaintoined it must be on the ground that it was the duty
of the dcef ndants to inform the tenant of the defect in the

DOYLE v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO.

425

Opinion of the Court.

staircase; this duty, if it exists, does not arise from the contract between the parties, but from the relation between them,
and is imposed by law. If such a duty is imposed by law, it
would seem that there is no distinction, as a ground of liability,
between an intentional and an unintentional neglect to perform it; but in such a case as this is there can be no such
duty without knowledge of the defect. There is no evidence
of any such knowledge, except on the part of C. D. flunking,
and the other defendants cannot in .any event be held liable,
unless his knowledge can be imputed to them, as the knowledge of their agent in letting the premises. The evidence is
insufficient to warrant the jury in finding that C. D. flunking
intentionally concealed the defect from the tenant; and the
action, if it can be maintained, must proceed upon the ground
pf neglect to perform a duty which the law imposed upon the
defendants.
"A tenant is a purchaser of an estate in the land or building
hired; and Keates v. Cadogan, 10 C. B. 591, states the general
rule that no action lies by a tenant against a landlord on
account of the condition of the premises hired, in the absence
pf an express warranty or of active deceit. See also -Robins
v. Jones, 15 0. B. (N. S.) 240. This is the general rule of
caveat eraptor. In the absence of any warranty, express or
implied, the buyer 'takes the risk of quality upon himself.
Hight v. Bacon, 126', Mass. 10; WVard v. Hobbs, 3 Q. B. D.
150; iloward v. Emerson, 110 Mass. 320. This rule does not
apply to cases of fraud."
This rule of caveat emptor has been applied also in many
other cases, some of which we now refer to.
Keates v. 0ladogan, above cited, was an action on the case.
The declaration stated in substance that the defendant knew
that the house was in such a ruinous and dangerous state as t\
be dangerous to enter, occupy or dwell in, and was likely to
fall and thereby do damage to persons and property therein;
that the plaintiff was without any knowledge, notice or information whatever that the said house was in said state or condition; that the defendant let the house to plaintiff without
giving plaintiff any notice of the condition of the house; and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

that plaintiff entered, and his wife and goods and business
were injured.- Defendant demurred to the declaration and
the court unanimously sustained the demurrer. Jervis, C. T
giving the opinion said., "It is not pretended that there was
any warranty, express or implied, that the house was fit for
immediate occupation; but it is said, that, becapse the
defendant knew that the plaintiff wanted it for immediate
occupation, and knew that it was in an unfit and dangerous
state, and did not disclose that fact to the plaintiff, an action
of deceit will lie. The declaration does not allege that the
defendant made any misrepresentation, or that he had reason
to suppose that the plaintiff would not do what any man in
his senses would do, viz., make proper investigation, and satisfy
himself as to the condition of the house before he entered upon
the occupation of it. There is nothing amounting to deceit: it
was a mere ordinary transaction of letting and hiring." pp.
600, 601.
The rule of caveat emptor'was also applied in the recent case
of Woods v. .Naumkeag ,Steam Cotton Co.-, 1314 Mass. 35.
Defendant was owner of a tenement house, fitted for four
families, and plaintiff was tenant at will, or wife of tenant at
will. There were three stone steps, leading down from the
yard to the street, on which ice and snow had accumulated,
and on which plaintiff slipped and received the injury complained of. There was evidence tending to prove that at the
time plaintiff was injured she was in the exercise of due pare.
The jury viewed the premises. Plaintiff contended that the
steps were of such material and constructed in such manner
that they occasioned the accumulation of snow and ice thereon
improperly; and that the defendant's omission to place a rail
on either side, or to take other reasonable measures to prevent
one from falling, was such negligence as would render the
defendant liable. Bat the trial court held there was no evidence to go to the jury, and directed a verdict for' defendant;
and the Supreme Court sustained this ruling. Field, J., giving
the opinion, says (p. 359):
"There may be cases in which the landlord is liable to the
tenant for injuries received from secret defects, which are

DOYLE v. UiNIONh PACIFIC RAILWAY CO.

427

Opinion of the Court.

known to the landlord and are concealed from the tenant,
but this case discloses no such defects in the steps
p. 361. The ice and snow were the proximate cause of the
injury.
"The exceptions state that no railing had ever been placed
on either side of the steps, that the jury viewed the premises,
and that it was contended 'that the steps were of such material
and constructed in such manner that they occasioned the accumulation of ice and snow thereon improperly.' The steps were
of rough-split, unhewn granite, and the ' structure of the steps
remained unchanged from the time of the plainti#'s first occupancy of the tenement to the time she received her injury.'
The defendant was under no obligation to change the original
construction of the steps for the benefit of the tenant."
.lYazlett v. Powell, 30 Penn. St. 293, was an action of replevin, in which an apportionment of rent was d1imed by the
tenant of a hotel, on the ground that he had bee- partially
evicted by the act of an adjoining owner in building sbth4t
the tenant's light and air from one side of his hotel were shut
off or obstructed, and, as a result, that the hotel,Was rendered
pro tanto unfit for the purpose foi which it was intended to be
used. There was an offer to prove certain facts, (p. 294,) which
the court states as follows (p. 297):
"But the rejected proposition also contained an offer to
prove that the lessor knew at the time 'of executing the lease
that the adjoining owner intended building on his lot-at
what time is not offered to be shown - and did not communicate this information to the lessees. We think he was not
bound to do so; and that, if the evidence had been received,
it would have furnished no evidence of fraud on [the] part of
the lessor, or become the foundation in equity for relief of the
lessee. The substance of the complaint regarded something
that'the lessor was no more presumed to know than the leg-.
sees; it .was nothing whicl concerned the title of the lessor or
the title he was about to pass to the lessees. It was a collateral fact-something only within the knowledge and determination of a stranger to l.oth parties, and, if material to
either, I can see no obligation resting on either side to furnish

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

to the other the information. It was not alleged that the
lessor made any representations on the subject, or that there
was any concealment of the information; or that any relation of trust and confidence existed between the parties; or
that the lessees were misled by his silence, and entered into
the contract under the belief that the vacant lot would not be
occupied; or that they were in a position in which they could.
not by diligence have ascertained the fact for themselves, and
that they were not legally bound to take notice of the probability that the ground would be occupied by buildings, and
inquire for themselves. These were elements to be shown to
Zonstitute fraud, and make the testimony available.
"' The general rule, both in law and equity,' says Story on
Contracts, § 516, 'in respect to concealment is, that mere
silence in regard to a material fact, which there is no legal
obligation to disclose, will not avoid a contract, although it
operates as an injury to the party from whom. it is concealed.'
But the relation generally which raises the legal obligation to
disclose facts known by one party to the other, is where there
some especial trust and confidence reposed, such as where
the contracting party is at a distance from the object of negotiation, when he necessarily relies on full disclosure; or where,
being present, the buyer put the seller on good faith by agreeing to deal only on his representations. In all these and kindred
cases, there must be no false representations, nor purposed concealments ; all must be truly stated and fully disclosed. ' The
vendor and vendee,' says Atkinson on Marketable Titles, 13-,
' in the absence of special circumstances, are to be considered
as acting at arm's length.' ' When the means of information
as to the facts and circumstances affecting the value of the
subject of sale are equally accessible to both parties, and neither
of them does anything toidimpose on the other, the disclosure
of any superior knowledge which one party may have over the
other is not requisite to the validity of the contract.' (Id.)
Illustrative of this is the celebrated case of .aldlaw v. Organ,2
Wheat. 178. The parties had been negotiating for the purchase
of a quantity of tobacco; the buyer got private information of
the conclusion of peace with Great Britain, and called very early

DOYLE v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO.

429

Opinion of the Cburt.

in the morning folloving the receipt of it on the holders of
the tobacco, and, ascertaining that they had received no intelligence of peace, purchased it at a great profit. The contract
was contested for fraud and concealment. Chief Justice Marshall delivered the opinion of the court, to the effect that the
buyer was not bound to communicate intelligence of extrinsic
circumstances, which might influence the price, though it were
exclusively in his possession. And Chief Justice Gibson, in
Kinring v. JfkE1ratX, 5 Penn. St., (.5 Barr,) 467, in commenting on this decision, says: 'It would be difficult to ,circumscribe :he contrary doctrine' within proper limits, where the
means of intelligence are equally accessible to both parties.'
See also Hersey v. Keernzortz, 6 Penn. St., (6 Barr,) 129. When
the information is derived from strangers to the parties negotiating, and not affecting the quality or title of the thing
negotiated for, it is not such as the opposite party can call
for. We see no error ifi the rejection of the evidence on
account of this part of the proposition, as there was no moral
or legal obligation for the lessor to disclose any information
he had on the subject of the intended improvement of the
adjoining lot. It was not in the line of his title. It was
derived from a stranger; it might be true or false; and the
lessees could have got it by inquiry, as well as the lessor.
"It is well settled' that there is no. implied warranty thai
the premises are fit fdr the purposes for which they are rented,
(citing autliorities,) nor that they shall continue so, if there be
no default on the part of the landlord."
In the recent case of Viterbo v. Friedlandr,120 11. S. 707,
712, Mr. Justice Gray, rho delivered the opinion of the court,
said, in contrasting the doctrines of the common and civil law:
" By that law " [the common law, unlike the civil law] "the
lessor is under no implied covenant to repair, or even that the
premises shall be fit for the purpose for which they are
leased."
The plaintiff's evidence failed wholly to show that there was
any special and secret danger from snow-slides, which was
known only. to the railway company, and whici could not
have been ascertained by the plaintiff. It was, iu4eet, alleged

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court!

that "the section-house was in a place of danger from snowslides;" but this was jlainly the danger that impended over
any house placed, as this one necessarily was, on a mountain
side in a country subject to heavy'falls of snow. The danger
referred to was that incident to the region and the climate,
and, 'in
the eye of the law, as well known to the plaintiff as
to the defendant.
On a careful reading of the plaintiff's evidence we are
unable to see that the jury could have been permitted to
find any positive act of negligence'on the part of the railroad
company, or any omission by it to disclose to the plaintiff any
fact which it was the company's duty to disclose.
If, then, the plaintiff's case, as it appeared in her evidence,
would not have justified a verdict on the ground of negligence
or a fraudulent suppression of facts, and as the determination
of the nature of the relation between the parties, as that of
landlord and tenant, was clearly the function of the court,
there would,in our opinion, have been no error if the court
had really given a peremptory instruction to the jury to find
for the defendant.
However, the record discloses that the court permitted the
cases to go to the jury. It is true that the remarks made by
the judge must have indicated to the jury that his own view
was against the plaintiff's right to recover. But it has often
been held by this court that it is not a reversible error in the
judge to express his own opinion of the facts, if tl~e rules of
law are correctly laid down, and if the jury are given to understand that they are not bound by such opinion. Baltimore&
Potomac Railroad v. Fifth Baptist Church, 137 U. S. 568;
Simmons v. United States, 142 LT. S. 148.
It is not necessary for us to review in detail the criticisms
made in the several instructions, for, as we have seen, even if
such instructions hid amounted, in a legal effect, to a direction to find for the defendant, no error would have been
committed.
It is.obvious that these views of the case of Marcella Doyle,
claiming for her personal injuries, are equally applicable to
her suit, under the statute, for the loss of her children. The

