OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

we have no right to interfere with their action by injunction.
This case is within that large number cited in Noble, v. Unio
River Logging Railroad,in which it was held that the judicial
power will not interpose by mandamus or injunction to limit
or direct the action of departmental officers in respect to pending matters within their jurisdiction and control.
The decree of the Court of Appeals affirming the decree of
the Circuit Court dismissing the plaintiff's bill is, therefore,
Afflrmed.

UNITED STATES v. HARMON.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT* OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MAINE.
Io.649. Submitted January 6, 1893. -Decided

January16, 1893.

In a suit brought by a marshal against the United States, under the act
of March 3, 1887, c. 3591,
(2t Stat. 505,) to recover .$1770.60 as fees
and disbursements of the marshal, from March, 1886,-to October, 1888,
the items having been disallowed by the First Comptroller: Held, that
the Circuit Court of the United States had jurisdiction to review items
disallowed by the First Comptroller before March 3, 1887, although, by
§ 2 of the act, jurisdiction was withheld of claims which had theretofore
"been rejected, or reported on adversely, by any court, department or
commission authorized to hear and determine the same."
Items for marshal's fees for distributing venires; and for amounts paid for
blanks for United States attorney.;- and for amounts charged for marshal's travel to attend court on days when the courts were held by
adjournment over an intervening day, and were not held on consecutive
days, and to attend special courts or special terms of court; and for
expenses in endeavoring to make an arrest; and for travel to serve precepts, where he had In his hands for service, several precepts against
different persons for different causes, and made service of two or more
of such precepts In the course of one trip, making one travel to the most
remote point of service, but charging full travel on each precept; and
for amounts paid for hack hire In transporting prisoners to and from
court; allowed.
Whether the payment of the amount of the judgment in faior of the marshal will exceed the maximum compensation of the plaintiff as marshal,
and the proper expenses of his office, is a matter still open for adjustment at the Treasury Department.

UNITED STATES v. HARMON.

269

Opinion of the Court.
The Circuit Court had a right, under § 15 of the act of 1887, to award certain costs to the plaintiff, considering the frivolous and -vexatious nature
of the objections taken to,the greater part of this claim.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

_Mr. Solicitor General and Mr. Felix Brannigan, for ap-pellant.

.Mr. Edward f. Rand for appellee.
MR. JusTIcE BLTOHFOPi

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Maine, February 7, 1890, by Charles
B. Harmon against the United States;under the act of March
3, 1887, c. 359, (24: Stat. 505,) to recover $1770.60 as fees and
disbursements of Harmon while marshal of the United States
for that district, from March 9, 1886, to October 1, 1888, which
were included in his account presented to the District Court,
proved to its satisfaction by his oath, approved by it, forwarded to the First Auditor of the Treasury and by him to
the First Comptroller, and disallowed by the latter, the items
of the same being set forth in detail in schedules annexed to
the petition.
* The United States, by a plea in the n'ature of non a&sumpsit,
put in issue the plaintiff's right to recover. The suit, under
the requirement bf § 2 of the act of 1887, was tried by the

court without a jury.
There was filed the following admission in writing, signed
by the district attorney 'of the United States: "In the aboveentitled cause it is adimitted, on behalf of respondent, that the
services'charged in the petition and schedules -were actually
rendered; that the disbursements charged were actually made
in lawful money; and that "the sums charged as paid to witnesses were actually and in every instance. paid upon orders
issued in due form, either by court or a commissioner of, the
Circuit Court, in the respective cases."
The case, as now presented before us, involves only items

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

numbered 2,-3, 4, 5, 6 and 9,discussed in the opinion of the
Circuit Court.
There was filed, before the hearing, an "agreed statement
of facts," signed by the attorneys for both parties, the only
parts of which that it is important to recite being as follows:
"First. -As to jurisdiction:
"That of the total amount claimed by petitioner, items.
amounting to $140.32 were disallowed by the First Comptroller prior to March 3, 1881.
"Second. - As to the items claimed:
"That they are correctly classified and set forth in the
abstract of schedules annexed to brief of petitioner.
"Third. -As to the several classes of claims :"
"2. Distributing venuxes, marshal's fees, $186.
"That, if the marshal is entitled to a fee of $2 for each
venire distributed to the several constables, he is entitled to
the amount claimed, but it is claimed by respondent that said
amount was erroneously charged in the marshal's account
as mileage, and was for that reason disallowed by the
Comptroller.
"3. Paid for blanks for U. S., attorney, $14.
"That upon requisition of the U. S. attorney, approved by
the Attorney General, this amount was paid -by the marshal
for blank indictments'and informations for the necessary use
of the U. S. attorney. That a similar charge has since been
allowed by the Comptroller.
"4. Marshal's travel to attend court, $156.60.
"That of the amount claimed, $118.80 is for travel to attend
regular terms of the Circuit and District Courts, and that one
travel, $1.80, has been allowed and paid to the marshal for
travel-at each of said terms.
"That said $118:80 is charged for travel on days when said
courts were held by adjournment over an intervening day,
and were not held on consecutive days.
"That the remaining sum of $37.80 is charged for travel to
attend 2i special courts or special terms of the District Court.
That the docket of the District Court shows that said 21
special courts or special terms were duly held.

UNI:TED STATES v. HARMONT.
Opinion of the Court.

"5. Expenses endeavoring to arrest, $4.
"That this charge for two days at $2 was disallow'edby
the First Comptroller solely because he claimed it was not
charged in the proper account.
"6.

Travel to serve precepts, $237.60.

"That in some instances the officer had in his hands for
service several precepts against different persons for different
causes, and made service of two or more of such precepts in
the -course of one trip, making but one travel, to the most
remote point of service, but charging full travel on each precept. The following item, viz.:
" 1886, April 24. "In U. S. v. Jeffrey GerrQir, travel, to
serve subpcena from Circuit Court, Massachusetts District, at
Cranberry Isle, 314 miles, $18.84,'
is suspended by Comptroller because the only actual travel
was from Portland to Cranberry Isle, say 206 miles. If
travel as charged is not to be allowed, then this charge should.
be for 206 miles, $12.36. That in serving a warrant of
removal (in every instance within this district) or warrant to
commit, the marshal has charged travel, while the'Comptroller
claims that, transportation of officer and prisoner being
allowed, no travel can be charged."
"9. Transporting prisoners to and from court $78.
"That this amount was actually, paid for hack hire in
accordance with the usual practice, and that the clarge had
always before been allowed. The Comptroller claims that
the amount was excessive and the use of hacks unnecessary."
":Fourth:- As to the allegations in the petition:
"That the marshal duly rendered his accounts as stated, and
that the same were duly presented to the court and approved
and forwarded to the accounting officer of the Treasury, a.
alleged."
The case was tried before Mr. Justice Gray and Judge Colt,
Circuit Judge, and the opinion of the court was given by Mr.
Justice Gray. 43 Fed. Rep. 560. The court found for the
petitioner .f6r the whole of his claim except $6.48, and rendered- judgment in his favor for $17641.12 and $59.15 costs.
It also, in pursuance of § 7 of the act of 1887, specifically

. OCTOBER TERN, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

found the facts of the case to be as so admitted and agreed.
The United States, within six months, filed a petition alleging
errors and praying an appeal, which was allowed.
A material question in the case is, whether the Circuit Court
had jurisdiction to pass upon those items of the claim, amounting to $140.32, which were disallowed by the First Comptroller
before March 3, 1887. By § 2 of the act of that date, the Circuit and District Courts of the United States are vested with
concurrent jurisdiction (within certain limits as to amount) of
.all matters which, by § 1 of the act, "the Court of Claims
shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine," including "all
,claims founded upon the Constitution of the United States or
any law of Congress, except for pensions, or upon any regula
tion of an executive department, or upon any contract, expressed- or implied, with the government of the United States,
or for damages, liquidated or unliquidated, in cases.not sounding in tort, in respect of which claims the party would be
entitled to redress against the United States, either in a court
of law, equity or admiralty, if the United States were suable:
'Provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be constiued as giving to either of the courts herein mentioned jurisdiction to hear and determine claims growing out of the late
civil war, and commbnly known as 'war claims,' or to hear
and determine other claims which have heretofore been
rejected, or reported on adversely, by any court, department
or commission authorized to hear and determine the same."
The question is, whether claims disallowed by the First
Comptroller prior to March 3, 1887, were claims which, under
§ 1 of the act of that date, had been, prior to its passage,
"r6jected or reported on. adversely, by any court, department.
or commission authorized to hear and determine the same."
It is contended for the United States, that, except where
Congress, by special law, empowers some court or executive
officer to hear and determine a claim against the United
States, the accounting officers of the Treasury Department
.alone have the power to hear and determine it; that under
§ 236 of the Revised Statutes, "all claims and demands,
whether 'by the United States or against them, and all ac-

UNITED STATES v. HARMON.
Opinion of the Court.

counts whatever in which the United States are concerned,.
either as debtors or as creditors, shall be settled and adjusted
in the Department of the Treasury ;" that, as to marshal's
accounts, their settlement and adjustment belong to the First
Auditor and the First Comptroller alone, under §§ 269 and 277
of the :Revised Statutes; that, prior .to the act of .1887, the
only yemedies existing in favor of marshals, as against the
action of the accounting officers, were, in proper cases, by setoff in the Circuit or District CourtS, or by suits in the Court
of Claims; that, prior to the establishment of the Court of
Claims, the settlement and adjustment of accounts by the
accounting officers of the Treasury Department, and their
final action on claims and accounts, were regarded-by all the
departments -.
of the government as a final determination,
adjustment and adjudication of the claims and accounts so
passed upon; that, in respect to hearing such claims, the
accounting officers constituted the "department" which heard
and determined them; that their powers came within the very
terms of the act of 1887; that the act of 1887 cannot be construed so as to apply only to claims determined by courts and
special tribunals; that, when the accounting officers of the
United States settle accounts and claims, they are authorized
to hear and determine them, and to reject or report adversely
such claims or items as, in their judgment, should be disallowed;
and, therefore, that the claims so reported are rejected by a
department authorized to hear and determine them within the
meaning of the act of 1887.
But we concur with the views of the Circuit Court on this
point, which, in its opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Gray, are
expressed as follows: " Upon the question whether a disallowance of an account by the First Comptroller of the Treasury is
within the latter part of this proviso, there has been a diversity of judicial opinion. The Circuit Court for. the Eastern
District of Missouri held that it was, and its decision was followed by the District Court in this district, as well as in the
Eastern District of Missouri. Bliss v. VnitedStates, 34 Fed.
Rep. 781; Rand v. United States, 86 Fed. Rep. 671; P resTdn
v. United States, 37 Fed. Rep. 417. But the opposite view has
vo r -. cxLvn-18

OOTbBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

since been maintained, on fuller consideration, by the District
Court in Connecticut, in Georgia, and in Illinois. Stanton v.
United States, 37 Fed. Rep. 252; Erwin v. United States, 37
Fed. Rep. 470; Hoyne v. United States, 38 Fed. Rep.-542.
"The earlier decisions are based upon § 269 of the Revised
Statutes, by which it is made the duty of the First Comptroller
'to superintend the adjustment and preservation of the public
accounts subject to his revision;' and upon § 191, which is as
follows: ' The balances which may from time to time be stated
by the Auditor and certified to the heads of departments, by
the Commissioner of Customs, or the Comptrollers of the
Treasury, upon the settlement of public accounts, shall not be
subject to *be changed or. modified by the heads of departments, but shall be conclusive upon the executive branch of
the government, and 'be subject- to revision only by Congress
or the proper courts. The head of the proper department,
before signing a warrant for any balance certified to him by a
Comptroller, may, however, submit to such Comptroller any
facts in his judgment affecting the correctness of such balance,
'ut the decision of the Comptroller thereon shall be final and
conclusive, as hereinbefore provided.'
"' The clause of § 269, as to the general duty of the Comptroller to superintend the adjustment and preservation of
public accounts subject to his revision, is a re~nactment of a
provision of earlier acts, reaching back to the foundation of
.the government. Acts of September 2, 1789, c. 12, § 3, 1 Stat.
66; March 3, 1817, c. 45, § 8, 3 Stat. 367; March 3, 1849,, c.
108, § 12, 9 Stat. 396.
"Section 191 is a-reenactment of the act of March 30, 1868
c. 36, 15 Stat. 54. Before that act it was settled by a series of
opinions of successive Attorneys General that the action of the
Comptroller, or of the Commissioner of Customs, was subject
to the revision of heads of departments. See Opinion of
Attorney General Stanbery, of September 15, 1866, and earlier
opinions therein referred to. 12 Opinions of Attorneys General, 43. The action of accounting officers of an executive department was never considered as a conclusive determination
when the question was brought before a court of justice. Acts

UNITED STATES v. HARMON.
Opinion of the Court.

of March 3, 1797, c. 20, 1 Stat. 512; May 15, 1820, c. 107,
§ 4, 3 Stat. 595 ; Rev. Stat. § 3636; United Statm8 v. Jone8, 8
Pet. 375, 384; Un-ed States v. Bank of Xetrqpolgs, 15 Pet.
377, 401; 1 Opinions of Attorneys General, 624; 5 Opinionp
of Attorneys General, 650.
"The sole purpose and effect of the act of 1868 were to regulate the business of the executive departments; to define the
comparative powers of the Comptrollers or the Commissioner
of Customs on the one hand, and of the heads of departments
on the other, in the performance of their executive and ministerial duties; and to make the decision of a Comptroller or of
the Commissioner of Customs final and conclusive, so far as
the executive department was concerned, but not to affect the
powers of the legislature or of the judiciary. 13 Opinions of
Attorneys General, 5; 14 Opinions of Attorneys General, 65;
15 Opinions of Attorneys General, 192, 596, 626; -Dekaware
&teamboatCo. v. United States, 5 C. Cl. 55.
"The act itself, after providing that the balances certified
to the heads of departments by the Comptroller, or by the Commissioner of Customs, upon the settlement of public accounts,
shall not be subject to be changed or modified by the heads of
departments, but shall be ' conclusive upon the executive branch
of the government,' adds in equally unequivocal terms, 'and
be subject to revision only by Congress or the proper courts;'
and the further 'provision, which makes the decision of the
Comptroller upon facts submitted to him by the head of a department 'final and conclusive,' reserves the legislative and
the judicial authority with equal clearness by the qualifying
words 'as hereinbefore provided.' Act of March 30, 1868, e.
36, 15 Stat. 54; Rev. Stat. § 191.
"The judgments of the Court of Claims, and of the Supreme
Court on appeal from its decisions, accord with this view, and:
uniformly treat the action of the accounting officers as not,
conclusive in a suit between the United States and the individual. 3j!cElrath v. United State , 12 C. Cl. 201, and 102
U. S. 426, 441; Chorpenning v. United States, 11 C. Cl. 625,
and 94U. S. 397, 399; Pittnr
SaVings Bank v. Unifed
&atms, 16 C. Cl. 335,351, 52, and 101 U. S. 728, 734; lVa9ac4

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
"Opinionof the Court.

v. United States, 20 C. 01. 273, and 116 U. S. 398; Saunders
v. United States, 21"C. C1. 408, and 120 U. S. 126.
"In § 1 of the act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, the words ' hear
and determine' are used four times; once as applied to the
Court of Claims, twice as applied to that court and to the
,ircuit and District Courts, and again as apr 1 ied to 'any
'court, department or commission.'
These words must be
taken to be used in each instance in the same sense, and as
implying an
uadjudication conclusive as between the parties, in
the nature of a judgment or award. The proviso that nothing in this section shall be construed as giving to either of the
courts named in the act jurisdiction to hear and determine any
claims 'which have heretofore been rejected, or reported on
adversely, by aily court, department or commission authorized to hear and determine the same' must be limited to a
rejection of a claim, or an adverse report thereon, by a court,
department or commission, which determines the rights of
the parties, such as the approval by the Secretary of the
Treasury of an account of expenses under the captured and
abandoned property acts, as in United States v. Johnston, 124
U. S. 236, or the decision of an international commission, as
in .fXeade v. United States, 9 Wall. 691.
"Moreover, the Court of Claims, 'ven before the passage of
the act of 1887, had jurisdiction of claims under an act of
Congress or unler a contract, and could therefore hear and
determine claims for legal salaries or fees. .Mitchell v. United
States, 18 C. Cl. 281, and 109 U. S. 146; Adams v. United
States, 20 C. Cl. 115; United States v. 3feDonald, 128 U. S.
471; United States v. Jones,'131 U. S.1, 16.
"We cannot believe that the act of 1887, entitled 'An act
to provide fqr th'e bringing of suits against the government
of the United States,' and the manifest scope and purpose
of which are to extend the liability of the government to be
sued, was intended to take away a jurisdiction already existing, and to give to the decisions of accounting officers an
authority and effect which they never had before."
Item 2 is as follows: "Distributing venires, marshal's fees,
$186." As to this item, the agreed statement of facts says:

'UNITED STATES v. HARMON.
Opinion oT the Court

"That, if the marshal is entitled to a fee of $2 for each venire
distributed to the several constables, he is entitled. to the
amount claimed, but it is claimed by respondent that said
amount was erroneously charged in the marshal's account as
mileage, and was for that reason disallowed by the Comptroller." As to this item 2, the Circuit Court in its opinion
says: "In this district the jurors being drawn by constables
in accordance with the laws of the State, the fees paid by the
marshal to the constables for thein services, as well as those
charged by him for his own services, in distributing venires,
are in accordance with the express words of the Revised
Statutes, § 829, cl. 3, and with the settled course of decision
in this circuit. United States v. Cogswell, 3 Sumner, 204;
United States v. Snith, 1 Woodb. & Min. 184; United Statesv. Richardson, 2& Fed. Rep. 61, V3." In thp case last cited
the mode w-6f sumfoning jurors in the First Circuit is fully
explained. As to this item 2, all that the counsel for the
Uliited States says is, that the finding as to it is not of :fact,
but is a mere conclusion of law, and threfore is error. We.
do not perceivQ that there is any error.
-Item 3 is as-follows: -".Paid for blanks for U. S. attorney,
$14." As to this item 3, .the agreed statement of. facts- says:
"That upon requisition of the U. S.'attorney, approved by the
Atthrney General- this amount was paid by the marshal for
blank indictments and informations for the necessary use of.
the U. S attorney. That a similar charge has since been
allowed by the Comptroller." As to thig item 3, the Circuit
Coutt says; "The sums paid by the marshal, upon the requisition of the district attorney, approved by the Attorney General, for blank ihdictments and informations for the necessary
ise of the district attorney, having been paid by the marshal
with the approval of the Attorney General, exercising the general supervisory' power conferred by Rev. Stat. § 368, the
marshal is entitled to be repaid those sums." All that the
counsel for the United States says, in regard to item 3, is, that
the item is payable only out of !he earnings of the district
attorney and-is a part of his office expienses and that the
marshal cannot be alloied credit for that item, because there

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

is no law authorizing or making appropriation for such blanks.
We think that item 3 is allowable.

Item 4 is as follows: "Marshal's travel to attend court,
$156.60." As to this item 4, the agreed statement of facts
says: "Of the amount claimed $118.80 is for travel to attend
regular terms of the Circuit and District Courts; and one
travel, $1.80, has been allowed and paid to the marshal for
travel at each of said terms. That said $118.80 is charged
for travel on days when said courts were held by adjournment
over an intervening day, and were not held on consecutive
days. That the remaining sum of $37.80 is charged for travel
to attend twenty-one special courts or special terms of the
District Court. That the docket of the District Court shows
that said twenty-one special courts or specidl terms were duly
held." As to this item 4, the Circuit Court says: "By the
Rev. Stat. § 829, cl. 24, the marshal is to be allowed 'for
travelling from his residence to the place of holding court, to
attend a term thereof, ten cents a mile for going only.' This
allowance is not expressly, or by any reasonable implication,
restricted to a single travel at each term, but'extends to every
time when he may be expected to travel from .his home to
attend a term of court. If the court sits for any number of
days in succession, he should continue in attendance, and is
entitled to only one travel. But, if the court is adjourned
over one or more intervening days, he is not obliged to remain
at his own expense at the .place of holding court but may
return to his home, and charge travel for going anew to attend
the term. at the day to which it is adjourned. His right to
charge travel for going to each special court or special term
is, if possible, still clearer, and is scarcely contested." The
counsel for the'United States says that this item is for mileage
of the marshal for travelling more than once from his residence
to attend a term of court, and is for travel caused by temporary adjournments of the court for a day or two during a term
thereof, the marshal preferring to go home rather than to
remain at -his own expense at the place of holding the court;
that a fair reading of § 829 of the Revised Statutes forbids
more than one mileage for going to attend a term of court;

UMfITED STATES v. HARMON.
Opinion of the Court.

that it allows the marshal "for travelling from his residence to
the place of holding court, to attend a term thereof, ten cents
a mile for going only," and does not say that he shall have
such mileage for each time he travels from his place of residence to the place of holding court during a term thereof.
No suggestion is nade, on behalf of the United States, that,
if item 4 is legal, the amount allowed is unreasonable. We
think that the item Was properly allowed.
Item 5 reads as follows: "Expenses endeavoring to arrest,
$4." As to this item 5, the agreed statement of facts says:
"That this charge for two days at $2 was disallowed by the
First Comptroller solely because he claimed it was not charged
in the proper account." As to item 5, the Circuit Court says:
"The charge for expenses in endeavoring to make an arrest
was no more than the statute permits to be allowed. Rev.
Stat. § 829, cl. 18." As to this item 5, the counsel for the
United States says that the finding is defective; that it is not
shown that the expenses amounted to $2 a day; and that the
fee bill allows necessary expenses only, and not exceeding $2
a day. We think the item is covered by the admission that
the services charged in the petition were actually rendered and
that the disbursements charged were actually made in lawful
money. This $4 is for "1expenses."
Item 6 is as follows : ' Travel to serve _precepts, $231'.60."
In regard to item 6, the agreed statement of facts says: "That
in some instances the officer had in his hands for service several precepts against different persons for different causes, and
made service of two or more of such precepts in the course of
one trip, making but one travlel to the most remote point of
service, but charging full travel on each precept. The follow.
ing item, viz.: '1886, April 24. In U. S. v. Jeffrey Gerroir,:.
travel to serve subpcena from Circuit Court, Massachusetts '.
District, at Cranberry Isle, 314-miles, $18.84,' is suspended by
Comptroller because the only actual travel was from Portland
to Cranberry Isle, say 206 miles. If travel as charged is not
to be allowed, then this charge should be for 206 miles, $12.36.
That in serving a warrant of removal (in every initance
within this district) or warrant to commit, the marshal has

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Cout.

charged travel, while the Comptroller claims that, transportation of officer and prisoner being allowed, no travel can be
charged." In regard to item 6, the Circuit Qourt says: "The
general rule prescribed by Rev. Stat. § 829, cl. 25, allows the
marshal ' for travel, in going only, to serve any process, warrant, attachment or other writ, including writs of subpcena in
civil or criminal cases, six cents a mile, to be computed from
the place where the process is returned to the place of service.'
The explanatory or restrictive provisions as to the cases of two
persons served with the same precept, and of more than two,
writs in behalf of the same party against the same person,
emphasize the general rule, and confirm its application to-several precepts against different persons for different causes,
although served at the same time. This clause of the fee bill,
which allows for travel in going only, as a compensation for
actual travel in both going-and returning, is wholly independent of, and unaffected by, .the distinct clause allowing fees for
transportation of officer and prisoner, only while the officer
has the prisoner in custody, and without any regard to any
additional distance which he. may be obliged to travel out, and
back in serving the warrant of arrest or removal: The United
States rely on -the act of Februaty 22, 1875, c. 95, § 'T,which,
after providing -that all accounts of attorneys, marshals and
dlerks for nileage and expenses shall be audited, allowed and
paid as if the act of June 16, 1874, c. 285, had not been passed,
further provides that 'no such officer or person shall become
entitled to any allowance for mileage or travel not actually
and necessarily performed under the provisions of existing
law.' 18 Stat. 334. We concur in the opinion of Attorney'
General Devens that this last provision, which manifestly includes marshals, does not deny a marshal full travel on two or
more virits in his hands at the same time and served at the
same place on different persons, inasmuch as his travel is
actual and necessary.to serve each and every of those writs;
but that 'that provision .was intended to apply to cases in
-which no actual travel is performed in serving process, as, for
-instance, where the writ is sent through the mail to be served
by a deputy at or near the place of service.' f6 Opinions of

UNITED STATES v. HARMON.
Opinion of the Court.

Attorneys General, 16, 169. It follows that by the statute
of 1875 the travel to be allowed to the marshal for serving at
Cranberry Isle a subpcena from the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts must be limited to his actual travel
within his district from Portland to Cranberry Isle, and cannot include the constructive travel from Boston to Portland,
amounting to $6.48, and that the marshal is entitled to recover
the rest of the sums charged for travel to serve precepts." In
regard to item 6, the counsel for the United States says that
the claim is for travel fee Qn more than one writ, the writs
being served on different persons, in different causes in.the
course of one trip; and that the same question is involved in
No. 783, United States v. Fletc7er, submitted at this term.
The counsel for the United States, in his brief in No. 783,
relies on'the same provision of the act of February 22, 1875,
c. 95, § 7, (18 Stat. 334,) which, recited above, referring to
clerks, marshals, etc., provides that "no such officer or person
shall become entitled to any allowance for mileage or travel
not actually and necessarily performed under the provisions of
existing law." But we think the view of Attorney General
Devens, in his opinion of October 10, 1878, (16 Op. Att. Gen.
165, 169,) cited and quoted in the opinion of the Circuit Court
in the present case, is the correct view on the subject; and
that the item was properly allowed.
Item 9 is as follows: "Transporting prisoners to and from
court, $78." In regard to item 9, the agreed statement of
facts says: "That this amount was actually paid for hack hire
in accordance with the usual practice, and that the charge had
always before been allowed. The Comptroller claims that the
amount was excessive and the use of hacks unnecessary.". In
regard to item 9, the Circuit Court says: "The hire of hacks
to transport prisoners to and from court is agreed to have been
in accordance with the usual practice, and to have always
before been allowed, and must be presumed to have been required by the court for the prompt despatch of business."
The counsel for the United States claims that it is contrary to
law to allow that item; and that the service is covered by the
per diem fee of $5 for attending court and bringing in and

