IN RE HABERMA

MA'F'G CO., Petitioner.

525"

Statement of the Case.

In re IABERMAN MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
Petitioner.
ORiGINAL.
No number. Submitted January 30,1393,- Decided F ebruary 0, 1893.

Under § 7 of thb act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, 828, which provides for an appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals from an interlocutory
order or decree granting or continuing -an injunction, on a hearing in
equity, the granting of a stay of the operation of the injunction during
the pendency of the appeal, by the court which granted or continued it,
is not a matter of right, but is a matter of discretion.
Such discretion of that court cannot be controlled by a writ of mandamus
from this court.-

ON the 5th of January, 1893, an interlocutory decree wa s
made, on final hearing, in a suit in equity in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New York,
brought against the Haberman Manufacturing Company, for
the infringement of a patent for improvements in the manufacture of enamelled iron ware. The decree held. that the
patent was valid and had been.infringed by the defendant,
,and awarded a recovery. of profits' ard damages, to be ascertained on a reference to a master, and also a perpetual injunction. The defendant perfected an appeal to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit from such interlocutory
decree, and, on the 20th of January, 1893,- applied to the
Circuit Court for a stay of proceedings in that court pending
the appeal, including a stay of. the injunction, and for the.
acceptance and approval of a supersedeas bond for that purpose, which bond, in any amount satisfactory to the court, it
offered to file. But the court denied the application. The
defendant now applies to this court for leave to fiteia petition
that a writ of mandamus issue to the judges of the Circuit
Court commanding them to approve and direct the filingof a
supersedeas bond, in such amount as that court shall fix, to
supersede the injunction, and to enter an order vacating, sus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Petitioner.

pending, or superseding the injunction, which was issued on
January 5, 1893, and subsequently served.
-Mr. Charles E. .Mitehell and rfr.Robert N. Kenyom for
vetitioner -Mr. T. .Kenyon was on the brief.
The petition which this motion asks leave to file involves
the question whether upon an appeal in a patent suit taken
to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals pursuant to the
seventh section of the act of Congress, of March 3, 1891, 26
Stat. 826, 828, c. 517, from an interlocutory decree granting
an injuncOtibn, the defendant and appellant is entitled as a
matter of right to a supersedeas of the injunction pending the
appeal. That section is as follows: "Sec. 7. That where,
upon a hearing in equity in a District Court, or in an existing
Circuit Court, an injunction shall be granted or continued by
an interlocutory order or decree, in a cause in which an appeal
from a final decree, may be taken under the provisions of this act
to the Circuit Court of. Appeals, an appeal may be taken from
such interlocutory order or decree granting or continuing such
injunction to the Circuit Court of Appeals: Provided,That
the appeal must be taken within thirty days from the entry
of such order or decree, and it shall take precedence in the
appellate court; and the proceedings in other respects in the
court. below shall not be stayed unless otherwise ordered by
that court during the pendency of such appeal."
The suit against this petitiolner in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York is one
for the infringement of a patent, and is therefore "a cause in
which an appeal from a final decree may be taken.
to the Circuit Court of Appeals."
Section 'I gives to a defendant taking an appeal under that
section from an inteflocutory order-or decree granting an injunction, an absolute right to a supersedeas of the injunction pending
the appeal, upon the filing of a bond satisfactory to the court.
This is its plain meaning, as has been decided by Judge
Jackson, Circuit Judge- for the Fifth Circuit, in the case of
Pasteur v. Blount, 51 Fed. Rep. 610.

RE rABERMAN MAN'F'G CO., Petitioner.

527

Argument for Petitioner.

Judge Jackson's opinion is supported and enforced by a consideration of the language of this section, the evident purpose
of its enactment, and the previous practice and legislation
which it was designed to supersede.
That it was the intention of Congress that the injunction
should be stayed pending the appeal, is shown by the particular form of expression adopted in this section. The section
says that "the proceedings in other respects in the court below
shall not be stayed," thereby necessarily meaning "that the
proceedings in some respect shall be stayed."
The phrase or expression, "the proceedings shall be stayed"
or "the stay of proceedings" is shown by an examination of
the statutes and cases to have a recognized and well-established
meaning. It has always been used in connection with appeals
and writs of error to refer to the suspension of execution under
a judgment or the suspension of the enforcement of a decree.
The mere taking of an appeal and the transferring of a case
by such appeal from a lower to a higher court has never been
termed a stay of proceedings. iZiteken v. RandoW, 93 U. S.
68; Hogan v. Ross, 11 How. 294.
The conditions and regulations prescribed by section 7 in
reference to an appeal from an interlocutory order or decree,
also confirm the view herein contended for, that the appeal
was to operate as a stay of the injunction.
The statute provides that such appeal must be taken within
thirty days. This part of the statute has no special meaning
unless the statute intended that pending the appeal the injunction should be stayed. - This clause was certainly not intended
for the benefit of the defendant. It was a restriction upon
the defendant's rights. It must then have been intended as a
benefit to the complainant, to save the complainant from some
hardship or injury that would otherwise result to it, The only
hardship or injury that could result to a complainant from the
postponement of the appeal would be -in case the' injunction
was suspended during the appeal. If the injunction, was not
suspended, the delaying of the appeal would work no hardship
to the complainant but, on the contrary, would benefit the
complainant by giving him the monopoly of the busines

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Petitioner.

during a longer period of time. Evidently this limitation of
the defendant's time to appealwas put into the statute as a
result of the very fact that, under the statute, the defendant
was entitled toan absolute stay of the injunction pending the
appeal, and it was therefore only just to make the defendant
push his appeal with all possible speed.
It has always been a recognized principle of practice, that
where the right to a supersedeas or a stay of proceedings was
to follow an appeal or a writ of error, that right must be
exercised with great promptness and the law has always
trictly and narrowly limited the time within which such right
could be exercised. Sage v. Central Railroad ompany oj
Iowa, 93 U. S. 412.
The history of 'the practice upon appeals and writs of error
in this country and in England will show, as we believe, that
this seventh section was enacted by Congress with the purpose
of giving to'the defendant a supersedeas of the injunction
pending the appeal in order to establish what seemed to
Congress-the wisest and most reasonable rule of procedure in'
such cases.
Prior 'to 1772, in the English Chancery practice appeals
could be taken to the House of Lords from interlocutory
orders or decrees of the Chancellor, and such appeals operated
as a stayrof the entire pro'ceedings in the lower court, including not only the proceedings. in reference to the subject-matter
of the appeal, but all the proceedings in the case of any nature
whatsoever.
In 1772 it was decided that the jurisdiction of the Court of
Chancery in such a case wag suspended only as to the matter
appealed from, but that it was not otally suspended so as toprevent a proceeding as to any other matter in the cause.
,Earl of Pomfret v. Smith, 4 Bro. P. C. 700. See also Hovey
v. 2 oDonald, 109 U. S. 160, and Btart v. Mayor of Albany,
3 Paige, 383.
From 1772 until 1807 it seems to' have been the rule that
upon such an appeal from an interlocutory order or decree the o
proceedings in the lower court were stayed in reference to the
subject-matter appealed from, but not in other respects.

IN RE HABERMAN MAK.'F'G CO., Petitioner.

529

Opinion of the Court.

In 1807 the House of Lords adopted a rule that the proceedings in .the lower court upon such an appeal should not be
stayed, but that it should be within the discretion of the Chancellor to stay the proceedings pending the appeal or not,
according to the circumstances of the case.. The reason for
this change in the rule was because the number of appeals to
the House of Lords had so increased and the delay attendant
upon such appeals was so great, that it was felt to be a great
inconvenience and injustice to deprive the successful party in
the lower court of the benefit of its decree for so long a time.
. The practice established by Section 7 of the present act is
an adoption of this former practice of the English Court of
Chancery, but with such provisions, to wit, that the appeal
must -be taken within thirty days and that the case, shall be
preferred in the Court of Appeals, that the inconvenience and
injustice inherent in this practice as it prevailed in England at
the beginning of this century has been done away' with.

MR. JUSTICE BLATCIHFORD, after stating the case, delivered.
the opinion of the court.
It is contended for the petitioner that it is entitled, as a
matter of right, to a supersedeas of the injunction pending the
appeal, and that the Circuit Court had no discretion to refuse
it. As authority for this alleged right reference is made to
7 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 8 28, which provides: "That where,.upon a hearing in equity in a District
Court., or in an existing 'i,'cuit Court, an injunction shall be
granted or continued by an interlocutory order or decree, in a
cause in which an appeal from a final decree may be taken
under the provisions of this act to the Circuit Court of Appeals, an appeal may be taken from such interlocutory order
or decree granting or continuing such injunction to the Circuit
Court of Appeals: Provided,That the appeal must be taken
within thirty days from the entry of such order or decree,
and it shall take precedence in the Appellate Court; and the
proceedings in other respects in the court below shall not be
stayed unless otherwise ordered by that court during the pendency of said. appeal."
VOL. CXLVII-34:

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

It is clear that this is a case in which the appeal was properly taken and within the time limited; and it is contended for
the petitioner that under § T it has an absolute right to a supersedeas of the injunction pending the appeal, on the filing of a
bond satisfactory to the Circuit Court. Reference is made to
the case of Pasteurv. Blount, 51 Fed. Rep. 610, in the Circuit
Court for the Southern District of Ohio, where, a supersedeas
having been allowed, on granting a like appeal, a motion to
vacate the supersedeas was denied, the court (Jackson, Circuit
Judge) saying that, under § 7, there was no discretion in the
court or judge allowing the same to deny or refuse the appellant a supersedeas.
The argument made is, that the use, in § 7, of the words
"in other respects," implies that there must be a stay as to
the operation of an injunction, while the only discretion given
is as to ordering a stay, "in other respects" than as to the injunction. But there is no express provision that the operation
of the injunction must be stayed. The matter is rested wholly
on implication. The defendant is sought to be protected by
fequiring hini to take an appeal within thirty days and by
giving precedence to the case in the appellate court and discretion is given to the Circuit Court to proceed or not on the
interlocutory decree pending the appeal. Where a plaintiff
has an adjudication that he is entitled to an injunction, he has
rights which cannot be abridged or stayed by language which
is not more clear and unambiguous than that contained in § 7.
The matter may-be made clear by legislation. As it stands,
the Circuit Court had a discretion to grant or refuse a supersedeas; and its discretion, as we have uniformly held, (In re
Hawkins, Petitioner,ante, 486, and cases tliere cited,) cannot
be controlled by a writ of mandamus.
Application denied.

