LOYELL 'MAUFACTURING CO. v. CARY.

623

Syllabus.

ment from, the time it shall be entered until it shall be
pasd, andfor the costs and charges of theplazntiffs sn the
Circut Court.
The costs of th'is court, of the pla'antijf: m error and the
defendant mnerror shall be paul, one-haf of them by'the
plantffs 'n error and the other hal by the defendant 'n
error

LOVELL MANUFACTURING

COM]PANY 'v. GARY

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 110. Argued January Is, 18, 1893. -Decided

March 6,1893.

Letters patent No. 116,266, granted to Alanson Cary, as inventor, June 27
1871, for an improvement in modes of tempering springs, are invalid,
in view of the state of the art, for want of patentable invention.
The invention appears, from the specification, to be a method of restoring
steel wire which has been mechanically strained, by subjecting it to a
temperature of 6000, more or less, and the claim limits the method to its
application to "furniture or other coiled springs;" but the process, as
applied to those springs, was not different, in method or effect, from the
same process when applied to any mechanically strained wire, or to steel
made in straight pieces or strips, or otherwise.
The invention was anticipated by the prior use of New England wire clockbells and of blued hair springs, used in marine clocks. The treatment
to which those articles were subjected was in all respects the same in
the prior use, as in the patented process.
It does not amount to invention to discover that an old process is better in
its results, when applied to a new working, than would have been expected, the difference between its prior working and the new working
being only one of degree and not one of kind.
There was nothing more than mechanical skill in arriving at the alleged
invention, in view of the state of the art.
The point considered that no one bad used the former processes for the
manufacture of furniture springs, and that as soon as Cary's process
was made known, the art of making furniture springs'was revolutionized.
The cases in this court on the subject of double use, considered as to
whether it is a patentable invention to apply old and well-known devices
and processes to new uses, in other and analogous arts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-H "W Baewell and Mri [Thomas TF Bakewell for appellant. .ArP James K. Bakewell and .Me' J K Hallock were also
on the brief.
.Mr William, H. Kenyon for appellees.
was with him on the brief.
MR.

JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

-Mr IF C. Witter

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought March 14, 1885, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of
Pennsylvania, by Alanson Cary and Edward A. Moen against
the Lovell Manufacturing Company, Limited, an association
under the laws of the State of Pennsylvania, to recover for
the alleged infringement of letters patent No. 116,266, granted
to Alanson Cary, June 27, 1871, for an improvement in modes
of tempering springs.
The specification of he patent is as follows: "Be it known
that I, Alanson Car , ' city, county, and State of New York,
have invented a n(. w aud useful improvement in furniture
springs, and I do herebv declare that the following is a full,
clear, and exact description thereof, which will enable others
skilled in the art to make and use the same. This invention
relates to spiral springs, usually made in a conical form, of
steel wire, and extensively used in upholstering sofas and
chairs and for bed bottoms, etc., and consists in subjecting the
spring to a tempering process after it has been completed in
the usual manner, whereby its strength, elasticity, and durability are greatly increased. The ordinary- furniture spring
is made of hard-drawn wire, coiled and forced to the proper
shape, and when this is done the spring is considered finished,
without having been subjected to any tempering process other
than what is incidental to the drawing of the wire. To give
them a finished appearance, however, copper or other material
is frequently applied by suitable means. The metal being
greatly condensed and hardened in the process of drawing the
wire, a good degree of elasticity is given the wire thereby,

LOVELL MANUFACTU1RIKG CO. v. CARY.
Opinion of the Court.

but in bending or coiling the wire into the proper shape the
metal is unavoidably weakened, the outer portion of the wire
coil is drawn or stretched, while the inner portion is crushed
or shortened. When straight bars or wire is subjected to the
bending process, the stretching or drawing of the outer and
crushing of the inner portions are inevitable results. This
greatly reduces the elasticity, strength, and durability of the
spring. Being a manufacturez of furniture sprigs and aware
of' this difficulty, I have tried many experiments with a view
of restoring the wire, after being bent or formed into springs,
to its normal condition. This, I have discovered, can be done
by subjecting the spring to a degree of heat known as 'springtemper heat,' which is about 600', more or less, and that a
subjection to this temperature for about eight minutes is sufficient to pr~duce the result desired. This temperature I have
found to be sufficient to so far relax or produce a complete
homogeneity of the metal of the spring as to add from twenty
to thirty per cent to the value of the spring consequent on its
increased powers of resistance. Thus treated the spring will
bear much heavier pressure, and its strength and elastioity are
much less impaired than the ordinary spring after long-continued use. For carrying out and putting in practice my
discovery i have invented a tempering oven, for which I have
an application for letters patent now pending."
The claim is as follows "The method of tempering furniture or other coiled springs, substantially as hereinbefore
described."
The answer set up various defences, aiid among them want
of novelty and noninfringement. It averred that the process
set forth in the specification of the patent was merely a
method of increasing the elasticity of steel, applicable not
only to furniture springs and other coiled springs, but also
springs and other articles made of steel, whether coiled, bent,
twisted or straight, that the same was old, well known and
in common use or practice for many years prior to the alleged
invention by Cary, and for more than two years before he
filed his application for the patent; that said process or
method had been so practised on coiled springs, uncoiled
VoL. cxLvI-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

springs, hard-drawn steel wire, and other articles of steel in
various forms, for. the purpose of increasing their elasticity,
and that the patent was, therefore, void. It also set forth the
names of many persons to whom the process described in the
patent, whether considered as a restoring process or as a
tempering process rmerely, was known, and by whom it was
practised, prior to the alleged invention thereof by Gary, and
it averred that by reason of such prior knowledge and use the
patent was void. It also averred that it was a common practice to subject furniture springs and other coiled springs, made
of hard-drawn steel wire, to 6000 of heat, more or less, in the
process of finishing such springs, that the same was practised
long prior to the alleged invention by Cary, by sundry.persons,
whose names were given in the answer, that there was not,
at the time of the grant of the patent or of the alleged invention by Cary, any patentable novelty in the process described
and claimed in the patent, or in the application of the process
to the tempering of coiled springs for furniture, and that the
patent was, therefore, void. It also set -up various 'United
States and English patents, and various printed publications,
in which the alleged invention of Cary was said to have been
described prior to the making of his alleged discovery and
prior to his application for the patent. A replication was
filed to the answer, and proofs were taken.
Prior to the filing of the bill in this suit, the patent had
been sustained by a decision made by Judge Wheeler, on
February 7,1885, in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of New York, in Cary v Mf'o, 24:
Fed. Rep. 139. On the basis of that- decision a preliminary
injunction was granted in the present suit by Judge Acheson,
on June 12, 1885, 24: Fed. Rep. 141. In Car/y v. Domestic
Sprng-Bed Co., in the Circuit Court for the District of New
Jersey, on July 28, 1885, in a suit on the same patent, Judge
Nixon, following Judge Wheeler and Judge Acheson, granted
a preliminary injunction, 27 Fed. Rep. 299. Onj January 6,
1886, 26 Fed. Rep. 38, Judge Nixon dissolved the injunction
in -the New Jersey suit, on the presentation of new affidavits
relating to the novelty of the invention, and on February 2,

LOVELL MA.NUFACTURING CO. v. CARY.

627

Opinion of the Court.

1886, the preliminary injunction in the present suit was susppnded on the giving by the defendant of a bond.
After the proofs were taken in the present suit, it was
brought to a final hearing before Judges MKennan and
Acheson, and they sustained the patent, following Judge
Wheeler's decision. Their opinions are reported in 31 Fed.
Rep. 344, 347. On August 3, 1887, the court entered an
interlocutory decree, holding the patent to be valid and to
have been infringed, awarding to the plaintiffs a recovery
of profits and damages, with costs, referring it to a master
to take the account of profits and damages, and gFanting a
perpetual injunction. The master reported six cents damages
and costs in favor of the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs excepted
to his report, and the court, on a hearing of the exceptions,
entered a final decree, on February 16, 1889, awarding to the
plaintiffs a recovery of $8745.31, and costs. The opinion of
the court on the exceptions is found in 37 Fed. Rep. 654.
The defendant has appealed to this court.
The invention claimed, as appears from the specification, is
a method of restoring steel wire which has been mechanically
strained, by subjecting it to a temperature of 600, more or
less, whereby its, disturbed and disarranged molecailes are
allowed to assume their normal relation. The claim limits
the method to its application to "furniture or other coiled
springs," but it appears from the evidence that the process,,
as applied to those springs, is in no respect different, in method
or effect, from the same process when applied to any mechanically strained wire, or to steel made in straight pieces or strips,
or otherwise. The claim covers broadly the described method
of tempering, applied to any coiled springs as well as coiled
springs for furniture, and If the evidence shows that, prior to
Cary's invention, the method had been used for the restoration
'of any springs of strained steel, or other articles of strained
steel having the resiliency wnich is a well-known property of
steel, the claim is substantially anticipated. Particularly, if
the method claimed had been used by others to restore articles
of coiled spring steel, even though they were not used for-furniture springs, the claim is anticipated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

In the testimony for .the plaintiffs, it appears to be contended that, in order to establish the charge of infringement,
the patent is to be construed so as to cover the restoriig of
strained steel sprngs by the application of any temperature,
less than a red heat, which will produce in the metal a blue
color. If that be true, the patent must be so construed also in
comparing it with the prior state of the art. Mr. Brevoort, an
expert for the plaintiffs, says that if a coiled spring is attempted
to be used, without further treatment, for a furniture spring,
the wire will take a set and lose its resilient properties, and its
usefulness will be lost. He adds "To cure this defect the
spring must be tempered, as it is called in the trade, and tie
way of doing this upon such springs constitutes the process of
the Cary patent. The process described in the patent gives to
the spring apparently the same qualities as would be imparted
to steet by tempering. But I do not know that the process is
really one of tempering strictly so called, although it produces
like results."
The date of Cary's alleged'invention is December, 1870, and
the question is, what was the state of the art -at that date.
Mr. Brevoort explains "the ordinary tempering process" as
follows "Steel is ordinarily tempered substantially in the
following way" The steel is first best heated to a cherry red,
it is then suddenly cooled either in water or oil, it is then in a
very brittle and exceedingly hard condition and is extremely
liable to be warped or bent during the hardening as well as
during the heating. The next step is to reheat the article carefully and gradually and watch the appearance of a bright portion of the surface of the article, when certain colors will be
noticed following one another in succession, first a very light
yellow, then a deeper yellow, shading into purple, then a deeper
purple, until, finally the purple merges into blue, and lastly a
blue color, yellow, purple and blue being the three prominent
colors, the colors indicate different degrees of hardness in the
steel and act as guides, telling when the proper degree of temper has been reached for any desired article, thus, for example,
when the yellow just beginsto shade into the purple the proper
degree of hardness for a penknife has been reacheq, and the

LOVELL MAiNUFACTURING CO. v. CARY.

629

Opinion of the Court.

further drawing of the temper is stopped, thus, if a spring is
to be made the temper is drawn until a blue color shows, when
the further drawing of the temper is stopped, the above is an
outline of the ordinary tempering process as Ihave k uowti it
for the last twenty years." The metal is partially restored to
its original condition, by heating it to a blue heat, if the condition of spring temper is desired, or to a red heat if it is
wished to have a perfect restoration of the metal. In -making
wire, the metal is rolled into the form of a rod, which is drawn,
when cold, through successively smaller holes in a draw-plate.
It is thus gradually reduced in diameter, and the effect of the
strain is to compact it and make it very hard, increasing its
elasticity up to a certain point, and finally weakening the
material. For many years, in drawing wire to small sizes, it
has been the practice to heat it to a red heat between successive drawings, and thus to completely restore it, rendering it
less brittle and preventing the fracture of it by the strain of
the drawing process. At the conclusion of the drawing operation, when the wire has passed through the dies several times,
and is hardened and elastic, the wire is called "hard-drawn,"
and in that state it comes to the hands'of the makers of furniture springs. It is shown by the evidence to have been well
known in the art that wire weakened and strained by drawing,
could be completely restored to its original soft state by heating it to a red heat and gradually cooling it, producing thus,
by the operation of annealing, the opposite of the "hard-drawn
wire," of which Cary speaks in his specification. It was also
known that if such strained and weakened hard-drawn wire
was heated to a temperature less than red heat, but sufficient
to blue it, a partial process of restoration would be effected,
which would add strength and elasticity to the wire and fit it
for making springs and corset steels. The defendant's witnesses, Roberts and Booth, state that, prior to the date of
Cary's alleged invention, they practised this method of blueing
hard-drawn wire, so as to increase its strength and elasticity
The testimony shows the prior use of the Cary process applied
to wire to effect the same results, and to correct the same
undesirable consequences of mechanical strain, which are
described in the Cary specification.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The two principal matters relied on by the defendant to
show the invalidity of the patent are (1) the prior use of what
are called the New England wire clock-bells, and (2) the blued
hair-springs. It is clearly shown by the witnesses for the
defendant that, prior to Cary's alleged invention, wire clockbells and hair-springs had been subjected to heat in the
manner described in the-Cary specification, and with the same
blueing effect. The treatment to which the articles were subjected was in all respects the same in the prior use as in the
patented process. The only contention of the plaintiffs is that
the purpose of the prior use was not the same, and that the
results, so far as they were those of the patent, were accidental.
Higgins, a witness for the defendant, thus describes the way
in which wire clock-bells were made, prior to Cary's alleged
invention. He says that "the untempered steel wire was taken
from the hank and straightened by machinery, cut off at the
proper length, and then tumbled in sawdust to clean the oil
from it. Then the brass collet was driven on to one end, a
small coil of silver was put on for the purpose of brazing the
steel and brass together, then borax and water were put on,
and they were brazed together, and then were tumbled in
sawdust to clean off the borax, and then was wound on a
wooden block, then turned by a parr of plyers to the proper
shape, then was blued and oiled, and then they were ready for
use." He also says that the method of "blueing" was this
"They were put in piles of a hundred each, and then spread
on to a sheet-iron pan, and then put into an oven and there
kept until the heat blued them, and then taken out and oiled
ready for use. They were cooled in the air," that the object
oi the winding was to put them into a " b el l ' form, that the
effect of the winding was to make the vibration - to give them
the sound, that the blueing stiffened them and gave them the
tone, and that the bell, when struck by a clock hammer before
blueing had no sound, while after blueing it had a good tone.
Horton, a witness for the defendant on the same subject,
says that he used to make bells of untempered steel wire,
although some of it was drawn harder than others, that some
of it.was hard-drawn steel wire, and that the object of heat-

LOVELL MANUFACTURLG

CO. v. CARY.

631

Opinion of the Court.

ing the coiled wire was to make it sound and to stiffen it.
He also describes the manufacture by him, during the ten or
twelve years succeeding 1846, of wire clock-bells of a spiral
form, not helical, which were blued in tl same way and for
the same purpose.
Andrews, a witness for the defendant, gives testimony to
the same effect, and says that the coiling of the wire, to give
it the shape of a "bell," weakens the spring and 'causes it to
lose its elasticity, while subjecting it to heat makes it more
springy and elastic.
Thomas, a witness for the defendant, states that he had
known the wire clock-bells for forty years, that they were
made from hard, untempered steel wire, straightened, cut into
lengths, then wound on a form, and subjected to the blueing
process to.make the spring; and that there was no spring to
the wire until it was blued.
Warner, a witness for the defendant, states that, the wire
was steel wire, used just as it was drawn, that the coiling of
the wire upon a block to give it the form of a wire bell
stretched the outside and upset the inside, and weakened the
wire, and that the blueing process restored it and gave it
more elasticity
Broomheadf a witness for the defendant, states that as early
as about 1863 he saw hard-drawn steel wire used in the manufacture of clock-bells.
Higgins also testifies that he discovered, as early as 1866,
that the blueing process made the steel stiffer than it was before, and that he had known since 1866 that the tendency of
the spring to keep its shape, and to restore itself 'to its proper
shape when the coils were drawn apart or pressed together,
was increased by the blueing process.
Gardiner testifies that he knew that heating of strained bell
steel stiffened it, making it stronger and more elastic, and that
he would have known that the process of blue-heating steel
wire in the form of furniture springs would have increased its
stiffness and elasticity in a measure.
As to the hair-springs, they are used in marine clocks, to
control the balance, and are steel springs made of steel wire,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

rolled down. Hubbell, a witness for the defendant, made
them as early as 1848. He describes the way in which they
were made by him in 1848 as follows "The first process was
taking the wire in the coil and passing it between two steel
rolls to a required thickness. They were cut up to the proper
lengths, fastened to a hub, wound on a disc, and wound down
solid. We wound them down according to the tension of the
wire, so -that when they were let loose the outside coils were
of about or nearly the right diameter. The next process was
twisting them into a snail of a required form and blueing
them. I" blued them on an iron placed over a fire. They
were then removed from the snail. All the inequalities were
remedied by bending and twisting by a pair of plyers into
the proper shape. They were then ready for use." Re says
that he used steel wire, untempered, that the object of blueing the spring after it had been so wound, was to equalize the
density-the elasticity, that the blueing process had that
effect, and that he had repeatedly tested blued har-springs
and unblued hair-springs, to compare their elasticity with each
other, and that the blued spring would sustain double the tension or strain that the unblued one woula, without bending.
*Wright, a witness for the defendant, describes the use of
the same process by him on hair-spnngs for seven years following 1848, and says that the steel wire was untempered,
just as it came from the wiremaker; and that the blueing increased its elasticity
Testimony to the same effect was given by the witness
W B. Barnes, who said that the steel wire was hard-drawn
and untempered, and that the blueing had the effect of keeping the spring near the shape of the snail, and also giving it
temper.or elasticity
Hendrick, another witness for the defendant, testified to the
same effect.
It is contended for the plaintiffs that the bell-making process was for a different purpose from that contemplated by
Cary in his specification, that the results were not analogous,
and that, therefore, the patent was not anticipated. But we
are of opinion that in the Cary process and the bell-making

LOVELL MANUFACTURING CO. v. CARY.

633

Opinion of the Court.

process the operations are precisely the same. In both, the
operator is dealing with wire which is strained by being bent
past the elastic limit, and is deadened thereby The wire is
blued by subjecting it to a degree of heat sufficient for the
purpose, and is then allowed to cool. The result in both cases
is the same, namely, the restoration, stiffening and equalizing
of the wire, and the only difference is in the use to which the
resulting article is put. In both, the wire is made stiffer and
more spring-like, these qualities being utilized, in one case in a
furniture spring, and in the other in a clock-bell. Cary observed that, in winding furniture springs, the wire, already
weakened by the drawing process, was still further strained
and deadened, so as to impair the quality of the spring. The
question was, how to equalize and stiffen the mechanically
strained steel wire. The same problem had been solved by
the clock-bell makers, and the solution of the problem was
merely the use of the knowledge possessed by those skilled in
the art. The wire used in making the clock-bells was also
hard-drawn wire, but it does not appear that the process of
the patent acts differently, when applied to strained harddrawn wire, from what it would if applied to strained wire
that was not hard-drawn.
The difference contended for by the plaintiffs, between the
process of blueing wire clock-bells and the process of blueing
furniture springs, in that one deals with spiral articles and the
other with articles of a helical form, is not a difference in the
process, but is at most a difference in the articles to which
the process is applied. If the straining of furniture springs
is peculiarly aggravated because of their shape, the difference
is merely one of degree, not of kind. Moreover, the Cary
claim describes'the process as applicable to the manufacture
of furniture springs "or other coiled springs." A coiled wire
bell, although not a furniture spring, is a coiled spring; and it
appears from the evidence that any wire drawn through dies,
although not coiled, is, when heated to a blue color, stiffened
and its elasticity increased.
In rebuttal of the defendant's evidence as to wire clock-bells
and hair-springs, it is admitted that the plaintiffs show that

OCTOBER TERIM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

sundry witnesses would not have known that the blueing process was applicable to the treatment of such heavy material as
furniture springs, and that it was not used in tempering clocksprings of wide, fiat steel, but there was applied to such springs
what is called in the record the old process of tempering. But,
in the first place, these witnesses were not manufacturers of
furniture springs, and, in the second place, the reason why
the old process of tempering is not used on furniture springs,
is that their upright shape, like an hour-glass or the half of an
hour-glass, precludes them from being heated to a red heat
without their sagging and. becoming distorted. The clocksprings can be laid fiat upon a support, so as not to sag while
heated, and there is no reason, in regard to them, for changing
the old process of tempering for another. In addition, even
r
some of the plaintiffs' witnesses admitted, on cross-examination, that they knew that the treatment of the wire bells
stiffened the steel, and allowed its molecules to return to their
proper relations, and that they would have expected the application of the blueing process to furniture springs to increase
their elasticity to some extent. But it does not amount to
ufvention to discover that an old process is better in its results, when applied to a new working, than would have been
expected, the difference between its prior working and the
new working being only one of degree and not one of kind.
It has been often held that the mere fact that one who uses a
patented process finds it applicable to more extended use than
has been perceived by the patentee, is not a defence to a
charge of infringement. It follows necessarily that the public
cannot be deprived of an old process because some one has discovered that it is capable of producing a better result, or has
a wider range of use than was before known.
In &=t v NVichols, 21 Wall. 112, it was held that a mere
carrying forward, or new or more extended application, of the
original thought, a change only in form, proportions, or degree,
the substitution of equivalents, doing substantially the same
thing in the same way, by substantially the same means, with
better results, was not such invention as would sustain a patent, and in Roberts v Ryer, 91 U. S. 150, it was held that

LOVELL MA.NUFACTURIG CO. 'v. CARY.

635

Opinion of the Court.

it was no new invention to use an old machine for a new purpose, and that the inventor of a machine was entitled to the
benefit of all the uses to which it could be put, no matter
whether he had conceived the idea of the use or not.
It is contended, as against the wire bells, that the evidence
does not show the application of the patented process to an
article designed to be used as a spring. But the clock hairsprings are quite as truly springs as the furniture springs, for
they require the exercise and use of the resiliency of tempered
steel. Both are subjected to the same strains in coiling, both
for the same reasons need restoration, and in both the application of a blue heat produces the same desirable results.
Within the rule laid down by this court in HEollisterv Benedict Mfg. Co., 113 IT. S. 59, there was nothing more than
mechanical skill in arriving at the alleged invention, in view
of the state of the art. Gary says, in his specification, that
"in bending or coiling the wire into the proper shape, the
metal is unavoidably weakened ," that "this greatly reduces
the elasticity, strength, and durability of the spring;" that
"being a manufacturer of furniture springs, and aware of this
difficulty," he had made many experiments with a view to
restoring the wire, after being bent or formed into springs, to
its normal condition, and that he had discovered that that
could be done "by subjecting the spring to a degree of heat
known as ' spring-temper beat,' which is about 600, more or
less, and that a subjection to this temperature for about eight
minutes is sufficient to produce the result desired."
It is contended, however, by the plaintiffs that the applicability of the former processes is contradicted by the fact
that no one bad used them for the manufacture of furniture springs, and that as soon as Gary's process was made
known the art of making furniture springs was revolutionized.
But, it was said by this court in 3rcClcmn v Ortmayer, 141
U. S. 419, 428 "That the extent to which a patented-device
has gone into use is an unsafe criterion even of its actual
utility, is evident from the fact that the general introduction
of manufactured articles is as often effected by extensive and
judicious' advertising, activity in putting the goods upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

market and large commissions to dealers, as by the intrineic
merit of the articles themselves;" and (p. 429) that while,
"in a doubtful case, the fact that a patented article had gone
into general use is evidence of its utility, it is not conclusive
even of that, much less of its patentable novelty"
In the present case, it appears that it was not until a short
time before 1870 that furniture springs began to be commonly
made of steel wire. It was not until 1868, when the genera
introduction of Bessemer steel and open-hearth steel afforded
a cheap substitute for iron, that the use of steel became
general in the art in. question. It was then natural that there
should be introduced -into that art methods of treatment
which were well known as applied in allied arts. The
method of the patent, already in use, thus occurred to Cary,
bat he was appropriating' a method which was common
property When steel was adopted for the first time in any
art, it was natural that existing methods of treating it should
be applied to its new use in the given art. The case is merely
one of a double use. Nor is it of force that experts expressed
surprise that the process in question was applicable tc 'furniture springs.
Cary was -not the first to discover the process described in
his specification, for the restoration of steel. He claims only
the process, and the use made of the article after it is subjected to the process does not affect the nature of the process
itself. As a process, there is nothing new in the subject-matter
of the claim. The claim does not cover an improvement in
furniture springs or other coiled springs, as a new article of
manufacture, and the "coiled springs," to which, by the
claim, the method of tempering is to be applied, include all
such springs, irrespective of the use to which they are to be
applied: The method or process claimed is substantially the
old method of restoring mechanically strained steel.
The present case is covered by the cases of Vinton v. JHamilton, 104: U S. 485., Stow v. Chwago, 104 U. S. 547, Locomotive Truck Case, 110 U. S. 490, -Blakev a _Fanoseo, 113
U. S. 679; Thompson v Bowsselier, 114 U. S. 1, 3filler v Foree,
116 U. S. 22; .Dreyfus v Searle, 124 U. S.60, Brown v.

LOVELL MAN UFAOTURING CO. v. CARY.

637

Opinion of the Court.

D trwt of Columzna, 130 U. S. 87, Aron v Aanhattan
Railway, 132 U S. 84, Tfatson v Cincinnat, Indianapolis
c. Railway, 132 U. S. 161, -fMarchand v. Emcken, 132 U. S.
195, .Royer v Roth, 132 U. S. 201, Hill v llooster, 132
U. S. 693, 701, Burt v Evory, 133 U. S. 349, Rowe Alaehkize
Co. v. .atzonal -eedle Co., 134 U. S. 388, Forshetm v
Schilling, 137 U. S. 64, Consolidated Roller-A fill Co. v.
Walker, 138 U S. 124, Ansonza Co. v Elecrwazl Supply Co.,
144 U. S. 11, Ryan v Bard,145 U. S. 241. The principle
deducible from those cases is that it is not a patentable invention to apply old and well-known devices and processes to new
uses, in other and analogous arts. The decision in Ansonsa
Co. v Electrical Supply Co., suvra, is very pertinent. In
the opinion in that case, the cases were reviewed which establish (1) that the application of an old process or machine to a
similar or analogous subject, with no change in the manner
of application, and no result substantially distinct in its nature,
will not sustain a patent, even if the new form of result had
not before been contemplated, and (2) that, on the other
hand, if an old device or process be put to a new use, which is
not analogous 'to the old one, and the adaptation of the old
process to the new use is of such a character as to require-the
exercise of the inventive faculty to produce it, such new use
will not be denied the merit of patentability
In the case of Cary v lolffi, 24 Fed. Rep. 139, Judge
Wheeler remarked that the discovery of Cary was that the
application of heat wuld restore the lost strength and elasticity of the wire, consequent on the displacement of- its particles, that the application of heat for that purpose was not
known until it was applied to that kind of springs in' their
peculiarly weakened state, that the discovery was of a nel
application of an old process, which produced a new and highlr
useful result, that wire bells for clocks were made to have
sonorous properties by the same process in kind, but for a
.different purpose and with a.different result, that what seemed
to be the nearest to it was the method of shaping and spacing
the coils of hair-balance-springs for marine clocks, by coiling
the wire into a -mould of the required shape, called a snail,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

and subjecting it to heat while there in place, to make it retain its shape, but there was no displacement of the particles
of which the wire was composed, by distortion, and the process
was not a restoration of any lost quality, but a mere shaping
of the wire into the article desired, that the discovery of that
effect of restoration by Gary's mode was new, that experts
called by the defendants admitted that they had not believed
the result would be produced, until they saw the process tried
in connection with that litigation, and that such production of
a new and useful result, although by a new applicataon of an
old process, was patentable citing Cranev Price,1 Webster's
Pat. Cas. 393, Smith v Goodyear Vulcanite Co., 93 U S. 486,
and Zoom Co. v Higgins, 105 U S. 580.
In the present case, m the opinion of Judge Acheson granting the preliminary injunction, 21 Fed. Rep. 141, the court
cited and followed the decision of Judge Wheeler.
In the opinion of Judge Nixon in Cary v -DomesticSprngBed Co., 26 Fed. Rep. 38, he stated that, in ordering the preliminary injunction, he had followed the decision of Judge Wheeler;
and that is shown also by his opinion granting such injunction.
27 Fed. Rep. 299.
In the opinion of Judge Acheson in the present case, on final
hearing, 31 Fed. Rep. 344, concurred in by Judge McKennan,
31 Fed. Rep. 347, it is stated that the .process of the patent is
based on the fact that the evils resulting from the distortion
of hard-drawn steel wire, in the ordinary operation of coiling
it into springs for furniture, can be removed by a single application of heat, as set forth in the specification, so as to result
in a greatly improved spring; that furniture springs so treated
came into immediate and very general use, on their introduction into the market, largely superseding springs not subjected
to that treatment, and that experts and others practically
familiar with the treatment and behavior of steel were greatly
surprised at the result effected by the patented process, it being
contrary to all their previous conception and experience. The
opinion then cites and quotes from the opinion of Judge
Wheeler, and states that the latter opinion held that the Cary
process was new and patentable, although previously, in the

LOVELL MA2UFAOCTURlPTG CO. v. CARY.

639

Opmon of the Court.

manufacture of wire bells for clocks, heat had been applied to
them for the purpose of giving them the desired sound and
tone, and hair-balance-springs for marine clocks were subjected
to heat while coiled in the grooves of a mnetalli6 plate, for the
purpose of permanently setting the coils in proper relation to
each other. The opinion of Judge Acheson further said that,
after giving to the subject-matter an independent investigation,
the court saw no reason to doubt the correctness of Judge
Wheeler's conclus:ons, and added" "The purpose, object, and
result of the application of heat in the practice of the Cary
invention are so entirely different from those aimed at and
attained by the application of heat in the manufacture of wire
clock-bells, hair-balance-springs for marine clocks, and the
other shown instances of its prior use, that we do not hesitate
to adopt the conclusion of Judge Wheeler upon this branch
of the case."
But we are of opinion that the same principle set forth in
the patent was developed in the manufacture of the wire bells
for clocks and of the hair-balance-spnngs, that there was no
patentable invention in applying that principle to the. springs
mentioned in the specification, and that the case is merely one
of a double use.
It results that the -decree of the Circuit Oourt must be
Reversed, and the case be remanded to that court with a
direction to dismiss the bill, 'wth costs.
MR. JusTicE BREWEiz did not sit in this case or take any

part in its decision.

