FISHER v. SHROPSHIRE.
Syllabus.

shall be deemed to be a contract entered into by her with
respect to and to bind her separate property, unless the contrary be shown." And in section 1, (sub. sec. 4,) it was
declared that "every contract entered into by -a married
woman with respect to and to bind her separate property,
shall bind not only the separate property which she is possessed
of or entitled to at the date of contract, but also all separate
property which she may thereafter acquire." And yet in
-Deakin, v. Lakin, 30 Oh. D. 169, 171, it was held that this act
did not enable a married woman, who had no existing separate
property, to bind by a contract separate property afterwards
acquired, and Pearson J., said : "In my opinion, according to
the true construction of the act, the contract which is to bind
separate property must be entered into at a time when the
married woman has existing separate property. If she has
such property her contract will bind it. If she afterwards
commits a breach of the contract, and proceedings are taken
against her for the breach of contract, any sepaitate property
which she has acquired s ince the date of the contract and
which she has at the time when judgment is recovered against
her, will be liable for the breach of .contract. .But the act
does not enable her, by means of a contract entered into at
a time when she has no existing separate property, to bind
any possible contingent separate property."
It follows that the decree must be qffirmned, and it is so
ordered.

FISHER % SHROPSHIRE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
.THE SOUTERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 54. Argued Novefnber 22, 1892. -)elded

January 3,1893.

The courts of the United Siates enforce grantor's and vendor's liens, if in
harmony with the jurisprudence of the State in which the action is
brought.
The doctrine of a.vendor's lien, irisin.g by implication, seems to have been
generally recognized in-the State of Iowa.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.
If a suit to enforce a vendor's lien upon land in Iowa is pending at the time
when the vendee conveys the land to a third party, no presumption can
arise that that lien has been waived, as against the grantee of the vendee, whatever may be the general rule in that State as to the presumtion of the waiver of a vendor's lien, in case of a conveyance of the tract
by the vendee.
The filing of the petition in this case to assert and enforce a vendor's lien
was notice of its assertion and prevented third parties from acquiring an
interest in the subject-matter against and superior to the lien.
It does not appear to be necessary in Iowa to exhaust the remedy at law
before proceeding to enforce a vendor's lien.
I
Under the circumstances of this case, as detailed in the opinion ; held,
(1" That a vendor's lien existed on the property for the, complainants'
benefit which could be enforced by them for the balance due them
on the purchase money;
(2) That George Lyle was not a necessary party to the proceedings to
enforce it;
(3) That there was an error in the master's computation, which made it
necessary to remand the case.

IN 1876, Mrs. Loretta Shropshire owned in her own right
five hundred and forty acres of land in Iowa, derived from the
estate of a former husband, forty acres of which constituted
her homestead. May 1, 1877, she borrowed from the German
Savings Bank of Davenport, Iowa, $10,000 for three years,
with interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum, payable
semi-annually, and she and her husband, Alexander C. Shropshire, executed a mortgage on the five hundred and forty
acres. Judgments were rendered against her for various
sums, and her brother, Alexander Rhinehart, became her
surety upon a bond for a stay of execution. The stay having
expired, all the real estate of Mrs. Shropshire, except her
homestead, was held for sale, subject to the prior mortgage
of the bank.
The statute of Iowa provides that "in no action where the
defendant has . . . stayed execution on the judgment,
shall he be entitled to redeem." McClain's Ann. Code, § 4331.
In February, 1878, Mrs. Shropshire applied for assistance to
John Lyle, and it was arranged between her brothers, Alexander K. and Jehu Rhinehart, and herself, that Jehu Rhine,
hart shopld bid in the property at the sheriff's sale, and, if she

FISHER v. SHROPSHIRE.
Statement of the Case.

succeeded in raising the amount of the judgment, that he
should deed the land to her or to whomsoever she might direct.
Lyle thereupon advanced to Mrs. Shropshire $4250, and Jehu
IRhinehart executed to him a quitclaim deed, dated March
28, 1878, for five hundred acres of the land purchased at the
sheriff's sale, for the expressed consideration of forty-two hundred and fifty dollars, and Mrs. Shropshire and her husband
executed to Lyle a quitclaim deed for the forty acres of land
constituting the homestead tract, dated March 20, 1878, and
expressing a consideration of one thousand dollars.
May 1, 1878, Mrs. Shropshire and her husband executed to
Lyle a quitclaim deed of the entire tract, the consideration
named being fourteen thousand two hundred and fifty dollars.
May 1, 1879, Lyle purchased, and took an assignment of the
German Savings Bank mortgage. Mr. and Mrs. Shropshire
continued in the possession of all the lands deeded to Lyle
until January 1, 1881, when the property was surrendered to
him, and he and those claiming under him have continued in
possession from thence hitherto.
The original bill in this case was filed by Mrs. Shropshire,
February 26,. 1883, in the District Court of Jasper County,
Iowa, in which county the lands were situated, against John
Lyle as sole defendant. On March 1, 1883, Lyle conveyed
the lands to his grandson, George Lyle, and he took possession
on the next day. The cause was then removed to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Iowa,
on September 14, 1883, on the application of John Lyle, upon
the ground that he was a citizen of the State of Illinois, and
the plaintiff, Mrs. Shropshire, was a citizen of Iowa. The bill
was amended January 15, 1886, by making A. C. Shropshire,
the husband, a party complainant, and on August 27 of that
year, the bill was further amended. The bill as amended in
substance alleged that the advancement by John Lyle of $4250
was a loan; that the quitclaim deeds of Rhinehart, Mrs.
Shropshire and- her husband- were intended simply as mortgages to secure the amount of the loan; that upon that loan
and the German Savings Bank mortgage various payments
had been made; that John Lyle, being the holder of the quit-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

clailn deeds and the savings bank mortgage, bought the lands
in question of -Mrs.Shropshire at the price of $12.50 per acre,
and took possession of the same about January 1,'1881; and
that there was a large amount of the purchase price still due,
which defend'ant had neglected and refused to pay. The bill
prayed that an account be taken of the amount due complainants; that the defendant be decreed to pay the balance due
-upon the purchase price of the land; and that a vendor's lien
be established therefor; and for general relief.
The defendant answered under oath, denying all the material
averments of the bill, and insisting upon the deeds as absolute
conveyances, and alleged that in 1882 he sold, and in 1883
conveyed, the lands in question to one George Lyle, and that
-the deed was delivered and recorded before this suit was
brought. Defendant also averred that Mrs. Shropshire was
largely indebted to him, and that upon a final settlement,
January 27i, 1880, a balance of $7900 had been found due to
him from her ; he further declared it to be wholly false and
without color of truth that he purchased the farm from Mrs.
Shropshire, January 1, 1881, at $42.50 per apre, or at -any
other sum or price; and that the alleged sale was "without
any basis of fact whatever."
Defendant also moved the court to dismiss the bill for defect
of. parties, in that George Lyle had not been made a party
defendant, which motion was overruled.
An interlocutory decree was entered November 11, 1886,
determining that the deeds from the complainants to the
-defendant were mortgages, and that on or about January 1,
1881, defendant- John Lyle had agreed to take the lands and
pay therefor $21,600. A special master was appointed to
take and state all the accounts between the parties, and in
December, 1886, he filed -his report, showing a balance due
Mrs. Shropshire upon the purchase of the land in the sum of
$7807.W, or in another view, of $2028.51, with interest from
January 1, 1881. The accounts thus stated in the alternative
were arrived at by charging Lyle with the $21,600 and crediting
him with an alleged individual indebtedness of Mrs. Shropshire
'as well as the joint indebtedness of husband and wife, amount-

FISHER v. SHROPSHIRE.
Argument for Appellants.

ing together to $18,687.13, and deducting $4894.44 payments,
leaving $7807.31; but the master reported that. if the court
should be of opinion that certain sums, which he enumerated
and described as "individual indebtedness" of A. C. Shropshire, amounting in the aggregate to $5778.80, should also be
deducted, then the balance due was but $2028.51.
May 28, 1887, a final decree was entered confirming the
master's report and decreeing the payment of the sum of
$10,810.46 with interest at six per cent from that date, establishing a vendor's lien against all the lands above referred to,
and directing a sale on default of payment. From this decree
the pending appeal was prosecuted. The opinion of the Circuit
Court is reported in 31 Fed. Rep. 694.
.Ab. A. -H.Yo 'Fey, (with whom was .Mr. . C. CoZe on the
brief,) for appellants.
Early cases in Iowa under our statute recognize the status
of the vendor's lien. The cases, however, were not satisfactory, and the legislature amended the law and greatly modified
the same. Since the adoption of section 1940 of the Code,
the doctrine has been greatly modified, and the courts have
s'held. In this state of the law we beg leave to submit that
io vendor's lien should be allowed in this case because the
amount claimed was an unliquidated claim. It is settled by
the courts that alien does not exist as a security for an unliquidated and uncertain demand. Payne v. Avery, 21 Michigan, 524; Patterson v. Edwards, 29 Mississippi, 67; Sears v.
Smitk, 2 Michigan, 243; VFandorem v. Todd, 2 Green, (3 T.. J.
Eq.) 397.
That the demand of plaintiff was-an uncertain demand there
can be no question, because it was not determined until after
several days' trial what the demand of plaintiff was, and it
involved aif inquiry concerning a large number of accounts.
Consequently the rule that we have stated above fully applies
in this case.
There is no vendor's lien in this case because the deeds from
the complainant to the defendant do not reserve any lien.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

They are absolute in terms, and no lien whatever is even
hinted at. Sec. 1940 of the code provides as follows: "1No
vendor's lien for unpaid purchase money shall be recognized
or enforced in any court of law or equity after a conveyance
by the vendee unless such lien is reserved by conveyance,
mortgage or other instrument duly acknowledged and recorded, or unless such .conveyance by the vendee, is made
after suit brought by the vendor, his executor or assigns to
enforce such lien." Before this section was enacted the rule
was that there was no lien as to an innocent purchaser, unless
he purchased after suit. The statute changed this rule. Now,
where there is an absolute deed from the vendor to the vendee,
without reservation of a lien, no lien can attach. Roteh v.
.Hussey, 52 Iowa, 694 ; Reed v. Chubb, 9 Iowa, 178 ; Hagan
v. Birch., 8 Iowa, 309; Elliott v. Stevens, 10 Iowa, 418. As
George Lyle had no notice of a lien, as to him there is none.
He is clearly within the protection of the statute.
A bill in equity to enforce the vendor's lien, must show that
the complainant has exhausted his remedy at law against the
personal estate, or must aver such facts as show that the complainant cannot have a full, complete and adequate remedy at
law. And this, complainant has not done. Eyler v. Crabbs,
2 Maryland, 137; S. 0. 56 Am. Dec. 711 ; Stevens v. Murt, 17
Indiana, 141; Ridgeway v. Toram, 2 Maryland, Oh. 303; Zall
v. _UcCubbin, 6 Gill & J. 107; Scott v. Crawford, 12 Indiana,
410;. Richardson v. Stillinger, 12 Gill & J. 477.
There is a fatal defect of pa'rties. George Lyle should have
been made a party. Shields v. Barrow, 17 How. 129; -Mallow
v. Hinde, 12 Wheat. 193; TFofe v. Lewis, 19 How. 280; Lenox
v. Reed, 12 Kansas, 223; 3feriitt v. Phenix, 48 Alabama, 87;
Goodenow v. .Ewer, 16 California, 961; S. C. 76 Am. Dec. 540;
BToogs v. H~argrave, 16 -California, 560; 2oyes v. Hall, 97
U. S. 34.
Mr. James G. -Day, (with vihom was Mr. William Phillips
on the brief,) for appellees.
M . CHeF JusTicE FULTtER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

FISHER

. SHROPSHIRE.

Opinion of the Court.

No complaint is made of the interlocutory decree adjudging
the deeds to be mortgages, and that John Lyle, on or about
January 1, 1881, agreed to pay for the lands the sum of
$21,600.
The errors assigned question the action of the court in overruling exceptions to the master's report in respect of various
particulars forming the basis of the amount found due, and
to the finding that there was no settlement between the
parties January 27, 1880; in approving the report as a whole;
in finding that anything was due; in holding that complainants were entitled to a vendor's lien; in decreeing a sale; and
in refusing to require George Lyle to be made a party to the
action.
The deed of Rhinehart to John Lyle was dated March 28,
1878, and those of Mr. and Mrs. Shropshire, March 20, 1878,
and May 1, 1878, respectively. The mortgage of the German
Savings Bank was assigned to Lyle, May 2, 1879. The purchase by Lyle for $21,600 was made on or about January 1,
1881. This, therefore, is not thecase of a conveyance presently
made in consideration of the promise to pay the stipulated
price, but of a sale of the equity of redemption, and the bill is
in effect one to enforce payment of the difference between the
total purchase price and the amount which it would have been
necessary for the vendors to pay in order to redeem from the
mortgages, if they had not sold.
The transaction took the shape of a purchase for a specified
sum to be paid within a reasonable time,,as no time for payment was definitely fixed, and presumably as soon as the indebtedness to the vendee could be ascertained and applied.
The decree is for the balance of the purchase money alone,
although under the circumstances an accounting was necessary
in arriving at that balance.
The courts of the United States enforce grantor's and
vendor's liens if in harmony with the jurisprudence of the
State in which the action is brought, and the principle upon
which such a lien rests has been held to be that one who
gets the estate of another ought not in conscience to be
allowed to keep it without paying the consideration. C/it-

OCTOBER TER',

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

ton v. Bpaide s' Administratrix, 2 Black, 458; Story's Eq.
Jur. § 1219.
Although there is some contrariety of expression, the doctrine of a vendor's lien arising by implication seems to have
been generally recognized in the State of Iowa.
In-Pbrter v. City of Dubuque, 20 Iowa, 440, 442, the Supreme Court said: "The right to a lien in favor of a vendor
upon the real estate sold to a vendee is nbt based upon contraot; nor is it properly an equitable mortgage; neither can it
be regarded as a trust'resulting to'the.iendor by reason of the
vendee holding the estati with the purchase money unpaid.
It is a simple equity raised and a~dministered by courts of chancery. It is not measured by any fixed rules, nor does it depend
upon any particplar fact or facts. Each case rests upon its
own peculiar circumstances, and the vendor's lien is given or
denied according 'to its rightfulness and equity, in the judgment of the court, upon the facts developed in the particular
case."
It was stated, however, that whether the doctrine
should obtain in Iowa might be regarded as still an open question, although it had been declared in Pierson v. David, 1
Iowa, 23, that the lien was firmly established. This case is
cited with approbation in Johnson v. MeGrew, 42 Iowa, 555,
560, but it is added that whatever might be the view of the
question underthe general doctrines of'equify, there could be
no doubt respecting it under the provisions of the statute, and
reference is then made to sections 3671 and 3672 of the Iowa
Revision of 1860, which were sections 2094 and 2095 of the
Code of 18[1. These sections provided that the vdndorof real
estate, when all 6r part of the purchase money remained unpaid
after the day fixed for the payment, might file his petition
asking'the court to require the purchaser to perform his contract or to foreclose and sell his interest in the property, and
that the vendee should in such case, for.the purpose of foreclosure, be treated as a mortgagor of the property purchased,
and his rights be foreclosed in a similar manner. And it was
held that the sections applied as well where a deed had been
made as where it had not.
In .Af.Dole v. Purdy, 23 Iowa, 277, a vendor's lien was

FISHER v. SHROPSHIRE.
Opinion of the Court.

allowed and enforced for a deficie)acy in value of lands taken
in exchange, on account of the false representations of the
other party; and to the same purport see Brown v. Byam, 65
Iowa, 374.
In Huf v. Olmstead, 67 Iowa, 598, the plaintiff conveyed to
the defendant, in consideration of a partial cash payment and
a promise by defendant to execute a mortgage back to secure
the payment of the balance of the purchase money, unless he
should sooner convey to plaintiff a good title to certain
other lands in payment of the balance. Defendant did not
convey the other, lands, but he executed a mortgage and
had it placed on record, differing in its terms, however, from
the one agreed on. The plaintiff did not accept the mortgage,
and it was held that he had a vendor's lien on the land conveyed to the defendant.
In .Devin v. Eagleson, 79 Iowa,.269, where land had been
purchased and partly paid for and had passed into the possession of the purchaser under an agreement that he would as
soon as possible execute a mortgage there i to the vendor to
secure the residue of the purchase m ean
C
was prepared but not executed, it was decided that the vendor
had a lien, according to the terms of the prepared mortgage,
for the residue of the purchase price, and that the agreement
to exedute the mortgage was excepted from the statute of
frauds by section 3665 of the code. In that case, the language
above given from Porter v. City of .Dubuque, as to the character of a vendor's lien, was quoted, though it was stated that
plaintiff's lien was not such a lien, but one based upon a contract which a court of equity would enforce.
Sections 2094 and 2095 of the code of 1851 were carried
forward into the code of 1873, but changed to ca- where the
vendor had "given a bond or other writing tc -.fnvey," and
section 1940 was enacted, which provided: "No vendor'slien
for unpaid purchase money shall be recognized or enforced in
any court of law or equity after a conveyance by the vendee,
unless such lien is reserved by conveyance, mortgage or other
instrument duly acknowledged and recorded, or unless such
conveyance by the vendee is made after suit brought by

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the vendor, his executor or assigns to enforce such lien."
McClain's Ann. Code, (1888,) § 3111, p. 776.
Under this section it has been decided that, after the execution of a conveyance by the vendee, the lien ceases to exist,
even though the grantee knew that the purchase money had
not been paid. This is because the grantee has the right to
assume that a vendor's lien as against him is waived; Cutler
v. Ammon, 65 Iowa, 281, 283; Prouty v. Olark, 73 Iowa, 55;
.Rotch v. Hussey, 52 Iowa, 694; a presumption which cannot
be indulged in where suit to enforce such lien is pending.
It is argued that the second branch of the section should be
construed to mean that no vendor's lien shall be recognized 6r
enforced after a conveyance, not only unless the lien is reserved, but'also unless the conveyance is made after suit
brought. I aplears to us that this would disregard both
language and obvious intention, and that where the conveyance is after suit brought the grantee takes subject to the
maintenance of the lien.
Section 2628 of the code provides: "When a petition has
been filed affecting real estate, the action is pending so as to
charge third persons with nbtice of its pendency, and while
pending no interest can be acquired by third persons in the
subject-matter thereof as against the plaintiff's title, if the real
estate affected be situated in the county where the petition is
filed." 2 McClain's Ann. Code, § 3834, p.1037.
The Circuit Court held that, as the petition in this case was
filed February 26, 1883, in the county wherein the land was
situated, and as the conveyance to George Lyle was made
March 1, 1883, that conveyance did not affect the rights and
equities of complainants; that it was the filing of the petition
and not service of notice that created notice to third parties
of the pendency of the action; and that even though there
was a verbal contract in regard to the alleged purchase by
George Lyle, made in December, 1882, yet that did not defeat
a vendor's lien under section .1940 of the code. These conclusions we understand to be in accord with the decisions of the
Supreme Court of Iowa. .Yoye3 v.
nramer, 54 Iowa, 22;
Haverly v. Alcott, 57 Iowa, 171.

FISHER v. SHROPSHIRE.
Opinion of the Court.

It is said that this cannot be so, because the effect of ls
jendens is merely to give constructive notice to any purchaser
after the filing of the petition, and that if actual notice would
not protect the vendor's lien, then, a fortiori,a constructive
notice would not. But the notice given by filing the petition
is notice of the assertion of the lien and not merely of the fact
that the purchase money has not been paid. The reservation
of the lien by recorded instrument or its assertion by suit for
its enforcement alike avoid the objection that it is a secret
lien and prevent the acquisition of superior equities by third
parties.
Appellant further insists that no suit can be held to be
"brought," under section 1940, although the petition be previously filed, until the delivery of the process notice to the
sheriff, with intent that it be served immediately, and that
this (or this and service) alone constitutes the commencement
of the action, (Code §§ 2599, 2532;) that the first publication
of notice of suit in this case was, not until March 22, .1883,
and the publication was not completed until April 12, 1883,.
(§§ 2619, 2620;) and that hence the conveyance to George
Lyle had priority. Section 2532 relates simply to the bar of
the statute of limitations, and section 2599 to the general rule
in respect of the manner of commencing actions; but, as already
said, it is the filing of the petition, and not the delivery or ser-vice of process, that creates notice to third parties of the pendency of the action, and prevents them from acquiring an
interest in the subject-matter thereof as against the lien so
asserted.
Undoubtedly, a lien of the character we are considering
may be defeated if the grantor or vendor do any act manifesting an intention not torely on the land for security; but this
must be an act substantially inconsistent with the continued
existence of the lien, and cannot be inferred from the mere
fact that the parties may not have contemplated the assertion
of the lien in the first instance. We find no sufficient evidence
of a waiver here, and we do not regard the lapse of time
between the surrender of possession in January, 1881, upon
the purchase being made, and the filing of the bill in Feb-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

runty, 1883, as justifying a conclusion to that effect. The
position is also taken that the remedy at law must first be
exhausted or shown not to exist before a bill in equity can be
filed to enforce such a lien. But our attention has been called
to no decision by the courts of Iowa laying down that rule,
and although we are aware that it obtains in some jurisdictions, and under some circumstances, it is inapplicable here,
and need not be discussed as an independent proposition.
We7'are of "opinion, in view of all the facts and circumstances disclosed by the record, and of the concession that the
deeds were mortgages and that John Lyle agreed, on January
1, 1881, to pay the Shropshires $21,600 for the land, subject,
of course, to the reduction of that amount by the indebtedness of the Shropshires to him, complainants were entitled to
maintain a lien upon the property for the balance due them,
which the conveyance to George Lyle could not in itself
destroy.
In this connection it should be observed further that George
Lyle had not paid the entire alleged consideration for the land
before the bill was filed. The evidence of George Lyle and
his grandfather is in many particulars directly in conflict.
George testified that he made a verbal contract for the purchase of .the farm, about December 1, 1882, for $22,000,
which he paid in cash; that he traded for it six hundred and
forty acres of land in Union County, Iowa, at $30 per acre,
and $3800 in cash. This would be $23,000. He also said
that he gave a note of $1600 for the stock on the place. John
testified that George turned over to him on the purchase price
sale notes to the amount of about $4000, and gave his note for
$6000, and that a half section in Union County was part of
the consideration, 'and was to be deeded as he might direct;
that the agreed price for the three hundred and twenty acres
was $8000. The deed for this land conveyed three hundred
and twenty acres for the expressed consideration of $8000,
and bore date September 20, 1883. Payments made after
this bill was filed were made by George Lyle in-his own
wrong, so far as complainants' rights were concerned, and
treating the doctrine that all the purchase money must be

FISHER v. SHROPSHIRE.
Opinion of the Court.

paid before notice of a prior lien, in order that a subsequent
purchaser may be protected, as so far qualified that protection
may be accorded for the amount actually paid before notice,
(.-itteridge v. Chrpman, 36 Iowa, 348,) it is quite apparent
that George Lyle was not deprived against his will of that
protection by the relief awarded.
The motion to dismiss the suit for defect of parties was
properly overruled. By equity rule 41 it is provided that in
all cases where it shall appear to th court that persons who
might otherwise be deemed necessary or proper parties to the'
suit, cannot be made parties by reason of their being out of
the jurisdiction of the court, or incapable otherwise of being
made parties, or because their joinder would oust the jurisdiction as to the parties before it, the court may in its discretion
proceed in the cause without making such persons parties, and
in such case the decree shall be without prejudice to the rights
of the absent parties. When this bill was filed the conveyance to George Lyle had not been made. What rights may
have accrued to him prior to that date are not affected by the
decree. The suit was removed into the Circuit Court of the
United States by the defendant John Lyle, and having done
that, he then contended that the court had no jurisdiction.
because George Lyle was an indispensable party defendant,
and he was a citizen of the same State as complainants. We
do not think this will- do. If George Lyle, who was fully
aware of the pendency. of the suit and gave his testimony
therein, desired to. set ur equities which he claimed arose
from the payment of part of the purchase price of the property before the suit was brought, he might, as pointed out by
the Circuit Court, have intervened in the cause, for the protection of his rights, without ousting the jurisdiction. This
he did not do, and we are not prepared to hold the Circuit
Court-should be deprived of jurisdiction at the' suggestion of
the party who voluntarily invoked it.
Undoubtedly, George Lyle would have been a proper party
to the proceeding, but we do not regard the case as one in
whi li his interest in the subject-matter and in the relief sought
-was so bound up with-John Lyle that his legal presence as a
VOL. CXLVII-1O

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

party was an absolute necessity without which the court could
not proceed. Traders' Bank v. Campbell, 14 Wall. 87, 95.
This brings us to the examination of the matters complained
of in regard to the master's report. The rule in relation to the
findings'and conclusions of a master, concurred in by the Circuit Court, is that they are to be taken as presumptively correct, and unless some obvious error has intervened in the
application of the lawi or some serious or important mistake
has been made in the consideration of the evidence, the decree
should be permitted to st-nd. C'awford v. ff-eal, 144 U. S.
585, 596; Firrer v. Fcrrv; 145 U. S. 132.
We have carefully examined the evidence, and are satisfied
that the findings of the master (including that rejecting the
alleged settlement in January, 1880) ought not to be disturbed
under a proper application of the rule just stated, except in
one particular, in respect of which we hold a serious and
important error has been committed. The report of the master states certain items, amounting to $5778.80, as the "indi.vidual indebtedness" of A. 0. Shropshire to John Lyle on
January 1, 1881, including interest. In the summary of the
account stated between the parties, the report puts the balance
due in the alternative. If the $5778.80 were rejected as a
credit in Lyle's favor, the balance found was $7807.31 and if
it were allowed, the balance was $2028.51. The Circuit Court
entered a decree for the larger amount, with interest thereon.
We cannot concur in this conclusion. Lyle's advances were
made for the benefit of both the Shropshires. The husband
had charge of the farm, and the stock that was procured from
time to time and placed upon it through the business transacted
with Lyle was for the benefit of both. Lyle gave credit to
the farm and its operations, and not to A. C. Shropshire, as
contradistinguished from his wife. Some of the credits allowed
to the Shropshires in the $4894.44 appear to have been realized
out of items thrown into the alleged individual indebtedness
of A. C. Shropshire. The course ot dealing between the
-*arties,their correspondence, the whole evidence taken together,
seem to us wholly inconsistent with the idea that Lyle was
trusting A. C. Shropshire to the extent indicated, and looked to

