OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

them here, not to add to what was so well expressed in those
opinions, but to ihow that the questions so zealously and ably
pressed upon us have not been disregarded.
Our conclusion is that we find, in the legislation creating
the park and in the proceedings under it, no: infringement
of the constitutional or legal rights of the plaintiffs in error,
,andthe judgment of the court below is accordingly

•4ffirmed.

WEATHERHEAD v. COUPE.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF IRHODE ISLAND.
No. 104. Argued January 4, 5,1893. -Decided

January 16,1893.

Claims 1 and 3 of letters patent No. 213,323 granted to William Coupe,
March 18, 1879, for an improvement in hide-stretching machines, construed.
The principal feature of the Coupe machine, covered by claim 1, and of his
method of stretching hides, covered by claim 3, is, that the hide is
stretched longitudinally and transversely at the same time; and a single
passage of the hide through the machine is supposed to give it sufficient
stretching transversely as well as longitudinally.
The defendant's machine has no stretcher bar, substantially such as that
of the patent, giving a transverse stretch to the hide simultaneously
with the giving of the longitudinal stretch; and, therefore, does not infringe the patent.

TH case is stated in the opinion.
-fr. Causten Browne and XAr . Walter B. Vincent' for appellants.
.
for appellees.
A&. Wilmarth HTueto.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered

the opinion of the

court.
This is a suit in equity, brought January. 11, 1881, in the
Ci.5cuit Court of the United States for the District of Rhode
Island, by William Coupe and Edwin A;Burgess against George

WEAT]IERREAD v. COUPE.
Opinion of the Court.

Weatherhead, John E. Thompson, and William G. Evans,
copartners as Weatherhead, Thompson & Co., for the alleged
infringement of letters-patent of the United States No.
213,323, granted March 18, 1879, on an application filed
January 24, 1879, to the said William Coupe for an improvement in hide-stretching machines. The bill of complaint
alleges that the defendants from July 11, 1879, have made,
used and sold hide-stretching machines containing the invention described in the patent., The answer sets up in defence
want of novelty and non-infringement. A replication was
filed, proofs were taken, and the case was brought to a hearing
before the court, held by Judge Lowell, then Circuit Judge,
and Judge Colt, then District Judge; and on -the 20th of
April, 1883, the opinion of the court (16 Fed. 1Rep. 673) was
delivered by Judge Lowell, sustaining the patent, and holding that the first and third claims of it had been infringed.
On the 1st of May, 1883, an interlocutory decree for an
injunction and account was entered. The master filed his
report on January 1, 1888, exceptions were filed to it by the
defendants, and they made a motion to-dismiss the bill. The
master found that the amount of gains and profits to be accounted for by. the defendants was $15,412.82. The court,
held by Judge Colt, filed its opinion on the motion and the
exceptions November 15, 1888. 37 Fed. Rep. 16. It overruled
the motion and the exceptions, and on May 6, 1889, entered a
decree in favor of the plaintiffs for $15,412.82, with interest
from February 1, 1888, and the costs of the suit. The defendants have appealed to this dourt. The only question contested
here is that of infringement.
The specification of the patent is as follows: "The invention hereinafter described relates generally to an impioved
method of stretching and reducing to a uniform thickness the
hides of animals previous to said hides being 'manufactured
into dressed leather, or what is known as ' rawhide:' and it
particularly relates to a combination of mechanism which,
accompanied by certain hand manipulation, will accomplish
the desired result of stretching and, reducing the hides, as
above mentioned.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

"As is well known, all hides vary considerably in thickness
at different points, and when taken from the liquor-vats in
which they have been immersed to remove the hair, etc., they
are found to be soft, flabby, wrinkled and fulled. Owing,
therefore, to this condition of the hides, it is necessary, before
they are dressed and finished for the market, that, they be
stretched throughout to remove the wrinkles and fulness, and
also to reduce those-parts which are thicker than other portions, so that, as far as possible, the hides shall e uniform in
thickness.
"My invention consists in a combination of mechanical
devices which are capable of producing, in connection with
hand manipulation, the desirable results of thoroughly stretching the hides, and rendering them of even thickness in all parts,
the said devices comprising, in the main, a friction-table or
beam, over which the hides are dragged, a stretcher-bar of
suitable form for stretching the hides transversely, and a
slowly-revolving roller, to which the edge of each hide is
secured, and around which it is wound after being drawn
over the table orbeam and the stretcher-bar.
"Referring to the drawings, Figure 1 represents a front
elevation of my improved machine. Fig. 2 shows the same
in central vertical transverse section, and Fig. 3 represents the
stretcher-bar in perspective.
"As particularly shown in Fig. 1 of the drawing, my
improved machine consists of the following devices: A pair
of standards, as at A A', in which is mounted a shaft, as at
B, to which power is applied. Upon one end of this shaft is
a pinion, as at 0, arranged to mesh with a gear, as at D, loosely
mounted on one end of a roller, as at E. The inner side of
this gear D is provided with a clutch face or pin, as at d, for
engagement with a clutch, as at F, splined [spliced?] to the
roller E, and furnished with a shipping handle, as at G, so
arranged as to be convenient of access to the operating attendant. The remaining parts of the machine consist of a narrow
table or breast-beam, as at H, which is mounted in mortises,
as at a, in the standards, A A', and a stretcher-bar, as at K,
likewise mounted in mortises, as at W, and having its two

WEATHERHEA-D v. COUPE.
Opinion of the Court.

working faces doubly inclined, as at k P, Fig:. . Both the
breast-beam H and stretcher-bar K are so arranged as to be easily
inserted in their respective mortises, where they are confined
in proper longitudinal position by the standard A' at one end,
and a button, as at L, at the other end. The said beam and.
bar are capable also of lateral movement, to enable theia to be
moved backward to give room for a larger hide being wound
upon the rollers, and also to facilitate their entire removal from

1IG.Z.

FLG.L

FiG.3.

the -machine after the hide has been stretched and is to be
removed to give place for another.
"The methods of treating the hides and the operation of
the mechanism dbove described are substantially as follows:
A hide, as it comes from the vat, wrinkled and fulled, and'
with its various parts of unequal thickness, is placed over the
table or breast-beam Hl, and Qne of its ends carried under the
stretcher-bat K, and secured to the roller E by the clamp e,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the other end hanging free in front of the machine, as shown
in Fig. 2. The operator now connects the roller E to the continuously revolving gear D by means of the handle G and
clutch F, and the roller E slowly revolves, winding the hide
around its surface, and drawing the said hide over the friction
table or beam H, and around the stretcher-bar K. When any
part of the hide whose thickness should be reduced, or whose
Wrinkled or fulled-up portion is to be smoothed out, passes
over.the table or beam H, the operator, who stands in front
of said beam, applies pressure by hand to the proper portions,
thereby increasing the friction between the under surface of
the hide and the surface of the bar H, and causing the onward
movement of such portions of the hide to be retarded. The
portions thus pressed upon, therefore, are more severely
stretched than other parts of the hide, and by proper manipulation by the attendant its thickness is rendered uniform, and
it passes to the stretching-bar K in a smooth condition, having
been longitudinally stretched upon the beam H.
"In passing over the bar K the hide is transversely stretched
by the doubly inclined sides k Y, from which it passes onward
to the roller E, winding about the said roller uniformly and
smoothly. The machine is now stopped, the hide removed,
another secured to the roller E, and .the operations above
described are repeated.
"From the foregoing description my improved machine will
be readily understood; and it will be seen that my improvement in the method of stretching hides results from the cdmbination of the mechanical agencies mentioned, coupled with the
manipulation of the hide as it passes over the friction table or
beam, at which time it is smoothed from wrinkles and reduced
to a uniform thickness."
The patent has three claims, in these words: "1. The combination of a frictign table or beam, over which the hide is
drawn, a stretcher, spubstanutia~ly as described, and a revolving
roller, to which the hide is secured and around which it, is
wound as the hide is drawn over the friction-beam and
stretcher, substantially as set forth. 2. The combination of
a revolving roller, to which the hide is secured and around

OCTOBER TERMN, 1892.
Opinion of 'the Court.

"The argument. that a machine must be automatic in order
to be patentable is not sound. A piano is not automatic, nor
is any tool or implement intended for use by hand; but
improvements in any such tool used in an art or industry are
patentable.
"In the second claim the combination is limited to a laterally yielding stretcher and a laterally yielding friction table
or beam; as one bar, however, in the defendants' machine is
fixed and the other has a motion up and down, we find no
infringement of this claim.
"The third claim appears to be for the exclusive right of
using the machine referred to in. the first claim, and, as the
defendants have used such a machine, they have infringed the
third claim, and we*do not at present see how it could be
infringed otherwise than by infringing the first claim."
In the testimony and the proceedings before the master, the
consideration of the case seems to have gone solely upon the
machine which Judge Lowell in his opinion states was used
by. the defendants "at 'present," and that -machine is the only
one considered by the. defendants in their brief and their oral
argument. The reportof the master is based upon the use by
the defendants of "their machine" for stretching hides, from
January, 1880, to April, 1883, and he speaks, in his report, of
but a single machine, and calls it "their infringing machine."
The $15,412.82, reported by the master as gains and profits, is
made up of three itens, viz.: $3669.72 as the saving in the
cost of stretching and manipulating the hides; $4403.66 for
the increased area of hide secured;' and $7339.44 as the
increased value of the hides by reason of their improved
condition. But the master makes no distinction as to how
much of each of those items. was due to the machine used at
one time by the defendants, which, Judge Lowell states in his
opinion, closely resembled that of the plaintiffs, and .how
much to the machine which the defendants used subsequently.
The plaintiffs contend that the defendants at first built and
used a machine as near like a Coupe machine as possible,
cQfhstructing, it with two bars, one of which was bent 'or

curved; that-that machine was commenced in December,

WEATHERHEAD v. COUPE.
Opinion of the Court.

in the new machine, enables the workmen tbo exert sufficient
pressure.
"The defendants at one time used a machine which closely
resembles that of the plaintiffs. At present they have one
which works with a trough and bar, like the old belt-stretcher,.
with the addition of a table over which the leather passes, and
which enables the workmen to spread out and manipulate the
hide; upon the edge of this table is a piece of metal with
grooves spreading outward, and these grooves have a tendency
to stretch the hide laterally, or at least to prevent it from
wrinkling; that is, to keep it to its lateral stretch, which seems
to be much the same thing. The slot and bar are so placed in
relation to each other that a hide is not squeezed between
them, as in the old belt-stretcher; but',in the legitimate attempt
to avoid infringement of the plaintiffs' invention, which the
defendants intended to copy as far as they lawfully might,
because they had failed to come to terms with the plaintiffs
for a license, they now put into the trough a piece of board,
supported at either end upon blocks, about one-third the width
of the trough. The operation of the machine as thus modified
is known only to the defendants themselves, and Mr. Weatherhead testifies that it exerts a pressure upon the hide, how
great in pounds we do not know. We understand hin to say
that, by passing the hide through the machine several times,
all parts come sooner or later under the, board, and thus substantially all the 6tretching is done by its aid.
"Infringement of the plaintiffs' first claim is not escaped by
the use of this piece of board, for, although it causes the
defendants' machine to, approach more nearly the old beltstretcher, still the operation must remain to some extent at
least like that of the patent. The manipulation with the table
and grooves must enable the operator to use all the elenents
of the first claim upon two-thirds of the width of the hide
each time it passes through the machine, and it depends
altogether on the thickness and stability of the board whether
the whole operation is or is not cojied. The very presence of
this removable board is evidence that the old machine is not
satisfactory for. the new use. -

W EATHERREAD v. COUPF
Opinion of the Court.

which it is wound, a laterally yielding stretcher and a laterally yielding friction table or beam, substantially as described.
3. The improvement in the method of stretching hides, which
consists in dragging the hide over a stretcher, and also over a
. friction table or beam, by means of a revolving roller, to which
the hide is secured, as described, whereby as the hide is passed
over the table. or beam, the thicker portions of the hide are
detained or made to lag by pressure applied to such thicker
.portions, to increase at .such points -the friction between the
hide and the table, substantially as specified."
The master states correctly, in his report, that Coupe, being
engaged in the manufacture of rawhide leather, was experimenting on methods of stretching it, and finally perfected the
method and invented the machine for which he obtained the
patent; that the defendant Weatherhead, contemplating for
the first time the manufacture of rawhide leather in the fall
of 1879, desiring to have a stretching machine, and hearing that
Coupe had invented one, and having seen Coupe's patent, applied to him, on January 5, 1880, for a license to use it or for
the sale of one of the machines; that Weatherhead, not being
able to effect that object, got up a.machine of his own, which
Coupe notified him was an infringement lon the patent; and
that, the defendants persisting in using their machine, notwithstanding such notice, the present suit was begun.
Judge Lowell, in his opinion, says that rawhide leather is a
hide which has been stripped of its hair, and softened, and
brought to a stdte in which it is very soft, flabby and inuch
wrinkled, but has not been tanned. He then proceeds: "The
specification describes a ta1lb5r beam, over which the hide is
to pass, and which is breast high, in order that the workmen
may conveniently use it; then the hide passes over a bar or
stretcher, which is somewhat arched or crowned, in order to
stretch the hide transversely; it then goes to a roller, to which
it is clamped and over which it is slowly wound.
"The workman accelerates or retards the passage pf the
hide by lifting it up or pressing it down, and in this way the
thicker parts secure a greater longitudinal pull from the roller
than do the thinner parts, and the bar, by its shape, tends to

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

stretch the hide laterally as it passes from the table to the
roller.

The table and the bar have a lateral yield or adjust-

ment to accommodate hides of different sizes.
"The first claim is for the combination of the table, the
stretcher, and the roller; the second for the lateral yield in
the table and stretcher; the third for 'the improvement in the
method of stretching hides, which consists in dragging the hide
over a stretcher, and, also over a friction table or beam, by
means of a revolving roller, to which the hide is secured, as
described, whereby, as the hide is passed over the table or
beam, the thicker portions of the hide are detained or made
to lag by pressure applied to such thicker portions, to increase
at such points the friction between the hide and the table,
substantially as specified.'
"There was a machine for stretching leather for belts well
known to the patentee and to some others in the trade, which
was made by modifying a splitting machine. Mr. Coupe-did
not, in fact, make his improvement upon this stretcher, but
it is much more like his machifte than anything else which
preceded it.
"This old machine was used upon hard-tanned leather to
adapt it to be made into belts for machinery, for which purpose it must be stretched with great power, eighteen or twenty
thousand pounds to the sq~iare inch, in order to take out of it
all possibility of further stretching. This was done by passing
the leather through a trough which was brought up against
the stretcher-bar with the force we have mentioned. Since
the plaintiffs' method and machine have become known, Mr.
Davis,. an accomplished worker in leather, has tried with some
success an enlarged copy of the old belt-leather stretcher to
do the work of the plaintiffs' machine. He is obliged to use
a greater number of men or boys to tend the machine and
prevent the pressure from ruining the hide, which, of itself,
tends to prove that the machines are not alike; and we have
no doubt that, if the plaintiffs' devices are considered an improvement upon- this old machine, they embody a patentable
improvement. They omit the means for producing the pres
sure, and add a table not useful in the old machine, but which

WEATHERHEAD v. COUPE.
Opinioxi of the Court..

1879, and completed in January, 1880; that-in the latter
month, on application by the defendants, Coupe declined: to
sell them one of his machines, and they then proceeded to,
complete their machine ; that after August, 1880, the defendants informed Coupe that they had reconstructed their machine,
so as to take it outside of his patent; that Coupe, on examining it, notified the defendants that it was still an infringemer
that they again reconstructed it; and that, as so reconstructed,
it is the machine which they continue touse. It. is claimed
that that machine is an infringement of claim 1; that the use
of it is an infringement of claim 3; and that it is the machine
of which Judge Lowell speaks in his opinion as the machine
used "at present" by the defendants.
On the whole case, we think the inquiry must be confinea
to that machine; and we are of opinion that claims 1 and 3,
rightly construed, do not appear, to have been infringed, and
that the decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed.
The machine spoken of by Judge Lowell, in his opinion, as
one well known to Coupe, and to some others in the trade,
prior to the making of the invention by Coupe, was known in.
the art as the "dog" machine. In that machine, there were
two dogs or clamps, corrugated on their inner side so as 'to
hold the leather against slipping. The hide being grasped at
two opposite parts of its edge by the t~vo dogs, the latter were
then pulled apart dnd the hide was stretched in the line
between the two parts to which the dogs were clamped. The
machine was then thrown out of gear, the dogs were .taken
off from the hide and applied to it in another place, and the
.process was so continudd until the hide was considered to be
sufficiently stretched.
The difficulty with that apparatus was that by it the'stretch
which it gave to onle place it took out of another, and consequently the hide was not thoroughly stretched, being stretched
always lengthwise but not crosswise, and contracting towards /
the centre line of pull between the dogs: Thus, when the
hide was grasped at two other extreme points and pulled, the
stretch first given was taken out again.
In the operation of the machine of the Coupe patent, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

hide is stretched longitudinally and transversely a the same
time, instead of, as in the "dog" machine, stret,4, pg it first
in one direction, across the hide, and then, by a subsequent
operation, stretching it in another direction, transversely to
the first direction. This transverse stretching in the Coupe
machine is produced by the doubly inclined working faces
k R of the stretcher-bar K. The stretcher-bar K being highest in the centre, because its sides or working faces are doubly
inclined, causes that part of the hide which passes over its
highest point to make a longer circuit in passing from the
table or b~east-beani H to the roller E than do the other
parts, and thereby that part is stretched somewhat more than
the other parts, and the hide has a tendency to spread laterally
towards the ends of the stretcher-bar where there is a shorter
line of passage, and thereby it is stretched transversely to the
longitudinal line of movement of the hide towards the roller
E. This tendency is assisted by the use of the hands of the
operator in pressing downward upon the hide. Thus the hide
has a lateral stretch given to it simultaneously with its longitudinal stretch, while it is drawn through the machine by the
roller R. The pull of that roller against the resisting pressure
of the hands of the operator gives the longitudinal stretching,
and the same pull gives the transverse stretching owing to
the joint action of the pressure of the operator's hands and
,the form of the stretcher-bar K, with its doubly inclinedworking faces.
According to the specification ofthe patent, a single passage
of a hide through the machine is supposed to give it sufficient
stretching transversely as well as longitudinally; for the specification, after describing both stretches says: "The machine is
now stopped, the hide removed, another secured to the roller
E, and the operations above described are repeated."
In the old "dog" machine, the hide was stretched first in
one direction and then taken out and grasped at another
place, and stretched in-a direction transverse to the first. The
transverse sfretching in the Coupe machine has the effect to
preserve the result of -the longitudinal stretching, and to
stretch the hide coinpletely in a single passage oLit through
the machine,

WEATHERHEAD v. COUPE.
Opinion of the Court.

The first claim of the patent is for the combination of a friction table or beam, over which the hide is drawn, a stretchef,
substantially as described, and a revolving roller, to which the
hide is- secured, and around which it is 'wound as it is drawn
over the friction beam and stretcher. 'This is a claim to
mechanism.
The third claim is a claim to an improvement in the -method
of stretching hides, which consists in dragging the hide over a
stretcher and'also over a friction table or beam, by means of
a revolving roller to which the hide is secured, as described,
whereby, as the hide is passed over the table or beam, the
thicker portions of the hide are detained or made to lag, by
pressure applied to such thicker portions to increase at such
points the friction between the hide and the table. The
"pressure" mentioned in the third claiiii is the pressure
applied by the bands of the operator to the hid& as it passes
over the friction table or beam.
, It was correctly held by the Circuit Court, that the third
Qlaim is for the exclusive right of using the machine referred
to in the first claim, and that it cannot be infringed otherwise
than by infringing' the first claim. If the defendants have
used the combination of mechanism coveredby the'first claim,
they have infringed it, and have also thereby used the method
covered by the third claim.
Although the third claim is not confined to a passage of the
hide through the machine only once, where such single passage
does not produce a perfect result, it is manifest fron the' slecification, that the use of the c6mbination covered by the -first
claim is intended and expected to produce complete longitudinal and transverse stretching simultaneously, by a single
passage through the machine. Such stretching action, transverse as well as longitudinal, may not be, in a given instance,
sufficiently severe, and a second application of tho machine to
the same hide may be required; but in both cases, the transverse stretching will take place simultaneously with the longitudinal stretching. The defendants do not so use their
machire.
/In the first claim of the patent, the stretcher-bar K is inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

posed between the friction table or beam H and the revolving
roller E. Therefore, to infringe the first or the third claim
there must be used a stretcher-bar substantially such as described in the specification, of such form as will give a transverse stretch to the hide simultaneously with the giving of
the longitudinal stretch.
In the defendants' machine, there is no stretcher-bar K or
its equivalent, for transverse stretching, and the transverse
stretching is not done simultaneously with the longitudinal
stretching. On the contrary, in the defendants' method, the
hide is grasped at two opposite portions of its edge and
stretched 6n that line. It is then taken out, grasped between
two other opposite portions of its edge, and stretched on that
line transversely to the first line. It is thus stretched by the
consecutive method operated by the old "dog" machine.
That method is excluded by the Coupe specification.
In the defendants' machine, the line of tension runs in different directions at different times. Strains in it are imparted
successively and not simultaneously. The theory of the Coupe
specification is that, unless the hide is stretched transversely
while it is stretched longitudinally, the stretch put into it
when it is stretched in one direction will be wholly or partially
taken out when it is stretched in another direction.
It is contended, however, that in the use of the defendants'
machine, a transverse stretching is produced simultaneously,
and by a device substantially like the doubly inclined stretcherbar K of the patent. It is for the plaintiffs. to establish that
the defendants use substantially the doubly inclined stretcherbar K. The mere smoothing out of wrinkles, and the stretching of the body of the leather so as to reduce it permanently
to an equal thickness throughout, are two separate and distinct
things. The operation of the doubly inclined stretcher-bar K
is not that of merely smoothing out wrinkles in the hide. The
Circuit Court seemed to be of the opinion that the outwarAL
spreading grooves on the edge of the table in the defendants'
machine had a tendency. "to stretch the hide laterally, or at
least to prevent it from wrinkling, that is, to keep it to its
lateral stretch, whi6h seems to be much the same thing." The

WEATIHERHEAD v. COUPE.
Opinion of the Court.

machine of the defendants has divergent grooves or serrations
formed on the surface of the friction table. We are of opinion
that it is not a sound conclusion that the corrugations on the
friction beam in the defendants' machine perform the office of
Coupe's stretcher-bar K, interposed between the friction beam
and the roller H. While it is true that the corrugations
prevent the hide from wrinkling, yet, as there is not in the
defendants' machine any lateral stretch, it is not true that
such corrugations keep the bide to its lateral stretch. There
is no lateral stretch which is kept from going back by such
corrugations. Any office of the corrugations to keep a lateral
stretch from going back would be unnecessary in the deiendants' machine, because the hide is to be taken out and reattached at new points, and stretched longitudinally in the
very direction in which the previous transverse stretching, if
it existed, would have been performed. I
It is shown by the evidence that the hide does not, in.the
defendants' machine, enter the grooves or serrations to any
appreciable extent; that they are no.t' deep enough to have
any such effect; that there is no indication on the upper
surface of the hide that its lower surface enters into the serrations; that there is no indication that the undei surface of
the hide is not supported by a smooth bar or table; and that
this is shown by the fact that the upper surface of the hide
appears smooth where it lies over the grooves or serrations.
It is not shown by the evidence for the plaintiffs that th6
grooves are not too shallow to have any effect in giving
lateral movement to the hide, or that the hide would not show
on the upper surface whether the under surface was engaged
in the grooves, or that there was any appearance on the upper
surface indicating any such engagement.
Irrespectively of this, the combination of the first claim of
the patent is one in which the stretcher-bar is-interposed
between the friction table or beam and the roller. In the
defendants' machine, the organization is different.
We are of opinion that the first claim is not 'infringed,
because the defendants do not have the stretcher-bar K, or
any substitute for it, performing the same operatiQn. They

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

get their transverse stretch by t aking out the hide and grasping it at new points, and stretching it between those points.
The corrugations only keep the hide from wrinkling, an
operation which the patent says is performed before the
stretcher-bar acts upopi the hide. It does not appear that, as
the defendants' machine is used, there is any lateral stretching
of the hide'simultaneously with its longitudinal stretching.
The corrugataons are not combined with the friction beam and
the roller, as the convex stretcher-bar of the patent is; for
that is interposed between the friction beam and the roller,
and the description in the specification is that the hide, after
being longitudinally stretched on the friction beam, passes to
and is stretched transversely by the stretcher-bar; whereas, in
the defendants' machine, the corrugations are integral with
the friction beam. '-It would not be practicable to make the
convex stretcher-bar of the patent integral with the friction
beam. The specification describes The stretcher-bar as having
a lateral movement relatively to the friction beam; and this
excludes the idea of the stretcher-bar being integral with the
friction beam.
The defendants do not stretch the hide longitudinally and
transversely at the same time, but only stretch it longitudinally
in different successive directions across the hide.
The third claim is not infringed, because the described
method of operation of the combination of the first claim is 'not
performed by the defendants.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the" caie is
remanded to that court with a direction to disrmiss the" bill
with cost.

