OCTOBER TERIM, 1892.
Statement of the Case..

As to this matter, the Supreme Court held that there was
nothing which the court could review; that no ruling was
shown to have been had or asked on the motion in April, 1890,
although the cause was continued; and that the application
made October 16, 1890, was addressed to the court's discretion,
and could not be revised.
This decision upon a matter of practice under the State
procedure did not draw in question any right complainant
had under the Constitution or laws of the United States. It
affords no basis for the contention that her right .to be heard
iu her own behalf was denied, and we are of opinion. that'not
only was no Federal question brought to the attention of the
State ,courts, but that none such necessarily arose or was
decided.
trit o errordismissed.

ARNOLD v. UNITED STATES.
.APrEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE MU1ITED STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 825. Argued January 13,16,1893.-Decided February 6, 1893.

Knit woollen undershirts, drawers and hosiery are subject to duty as "wool
wearing apparel," under paragraph 396 of section 1 of the act of October
1, 1890, 26 Stat. 567, 597, C. 1244, and not as "knit fabrics made on
frames," under paragraph 392 of the same act.

THE appellants imported into the port of New York, by the
steamship Alaska, several cases containing knit woollen undershirts,. drawers and hosiery. The collector assessed duty, on
them, under paragraph 396 of ยง 1 of the tariff act of October
1, 1890, 26 Stat. 567, 597, c.,1244, as "wool wearing apparel."
The appellants protested, claimingthat the articles were dutiable only'under paragraph 392 of the same act, as "knit fabrics made -onframes."
On this protest, the board of general
appraisers, rever~ing the decision of the collector, held that
the merchandise. should have been classified as contended by
the impotters, under paragraph 392, and not under paragraph
396. Thereupon the collector made application to the United
States Circuit Court. for the Southern District of New York,

ARNOLD v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Appellees.

for a review of the matter. Additional testimony was taken
as authorized by the statute, and, on 'hearing, that court
reversed the decision of the board of general appraisers and
sustained the ruling of the collector. 46 Fed. Rep. 510.
From this decision appellants appealed to this court. Paragraphs 396 and 392 are as follows :
"396. On clothing, ready made, and articles of wearing
apparel of every description, made up or manufactured wholly
or in part not specially provided for in this act, felts not woven,
and not specially provided for in this act, and plushes and
other pile fabrics, all the foregoing, composed wholly or in
part-of wool, worsted, the hair of the camel, goat, alpaca or
other animals the duty per pound shall be four and" one-half
times the duty imposed by this act on a pound of unwashed
wool of the first-class, and in addition thereto sixty per centum
ad valorem."
"392. On woollen or worsted cloths, shawls, knit fabrics
and all fabrics made on knitting machines or frames, and all
manufactures of every description made wholly or in .part of
wool, worsted, the hair of the camel, goat, alpaca or other
animals, not specially provided for in this act, valued at not
more than thirty cents per pound, the duty per pound shall be
three tinles the duty imposed by this act on a pound of unwashed wool of the first-class, and in addition thereto forty
per centum ad valorem; valued at more than thirty, and not
more than forty cents per pound, the duty per pound shall be
three and one-half times the duty imposed by this act on a
pound of unwashed wool of the first-class, and in addition
thereto forty per centum ad valorem; valued at above forty
cents per pound, the duty per pound shall be four times the
duty imposed by this act on a pound of unwashed Wool of
the first-class, and in addition thereto fifty per centum ad
valorem."
XP&. Step en G. Clarke and -r.

Willam B. Coughty for

appellants.
".. Assistant Attorney General Maury for appellees.

496

OCTOBER TERY, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusricE BnF.w

, after stating the ease, delivered the

opinion of the cburt.
The question in this case is whether knit woollen shirts,
drawers and hosie'y come within the enumeration of "clothing, ready made, and articles of wearing apparel of every
description, made up or manufactured wholly or in part
. . . of wool," as provided in paragraph 396; or of "knit
fabrics, and all fabrics made on knitting machines or frames,
and all manufactures of every description made wholly or in
part of wool," as found in paragraph 392. In the original
brief filed by counsel for appellants, it is conceded that either
*enumeration, in the absence of the other, might cover these
goods; though, in the reply-brief, it is contended that ill no
proper sense of the term are the appellants' importations
wearing apparel; and in support thereof definitiofis are
quoted from several dictionaries, in which the word "apparel" is defined as "external clothing," "external habiliments or array," and "a person's outer clothing." As against
this, coun-sel for the government also refers us to dictionaries,
in which the term "wearing apparel" is defined as "garments worn, or made for wearing.; dress in general ;" and the
noun "wearing," as "that which one wears; clothes; garments." But it is unnecessary to search or compare the dictionaries. The term "wearing apparel" is not an uncommon
one in statutes, and is used in an inclusive sense as embracing
in general.
all articles which are ordinarily, worn -dress
Indeed, in this very statute, paragraph 752, in respect to
articles exempt from duty, names "wearing apparel and other
personal effects (not merchandise) of persoiis arriving in the
United States." Obviously, the term is here used as covering
all articles of dress; while "personal effects" refer to other
matters of personal baggage not used as clothing. And it
cannot be believed thata person coming into the United
States is permitted to bring in- his outer clothing free from
duty, while his underclothing is subject to duty and seizure
-for the non-payment thereof: So in exemption statutes is
frequently found the term "w e aring apparel." -Thus," for

ARNOLD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

instance, in the General Statutes of Kansas, page 474, c.
38, sec. 4, is this description of exempt property: "First, the
wearing apparel of the debtor." And in the late bankruptcy
act "the wearing apparel of the bankrupt" is excepted from
the operation of the assignment. ,Rev. Stat. sec. 5045. No
one would suppose that under such statutes a man's pantaloons
and shoes were exempt, while his drawers and socks were not.
Not only is that the general sense in which the term is used
.nstatutes, but also the very form of the language here used
indicates an intent to compass within the enumeration every
article which is ordinarily worn or recognized as an' article of
dress. The language is, "clothing, ready made, and articles
of wearing apparel of every description." The words "clothing, ready made," would include coats, pants, vests and overcoats, at least; and the sweeping term added thereafter, "articles
of wearing apparel of every description," was obviously meant
to reach out and include everything that one wears. We think
that the concession made by appellants' counsel in their principal brief is beyond question.
Each paragraph, as will be noticed, contains the words "not
specially provided for in this act;" and the contention of
appellants is, that the enumeration in paragraph 392 is more
specific, and that therefore it should control, referring, in this
connection, to Solomon v. A'thur, 102 U. S. 208, 212, and
Hartranftv. .Mcyer, 135 U. S. 237. But we think that the
reverse is true, and that the description in 396 is more of a
special enumeration than that in 392. Clothing and articles
of wearing apparel are more specific than cloths and knit
fabrics. Out of cloths and knit fabrics clothing and wearing
apparel are made. The latter are included within the former,
while the former are not included within the latter. So,if the
decisive matter was the more special enumeration, we think
396 would be preferred. And in this connection- may be
noticed the relative rate of duty, which is higher for the
articles in 396 than for those in 392. The idea whicl runs
through this statute is well known to be that of protection
to our manufactures. As the duty prescribed by 396 exceeds
that prescribed by 392, it suggesrs that the articles named in
VOL. CXLVi-32

OCTOBER TERM:, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

396 .have been subjected -to an additional process, which is
to be protected, by an increase of duty. And so it is, that
paragraph 392 is apparently intended to provide the duty
for what maiy be considered "1piece-goods," manufactured
material; while that part of paragraph 396 which we have
been considering, and which stands, as it were, correlated to
paragraph 392, does not refer to manufactured material, but
that material carried by an additional process of manufacturing into the condition of manufactured articles. It is true
that we find shawls named with cloths and fabrics in paragraph 392, and they are manufactured articles; yet they
closely resemble manufactured material, and are little more
than piece-goods cut into sizes suitable for use. It is also true
that paragraph 396 names felts, plushes, etc., in addition to
clothing and wearing apparel, and they are manufactured
material rather than manufactured articles; but the articles
embraced within the terms clothing and wearing apparel are
put in a class by themselves, and separated from the other
articles named in the paragraph by the expression "not
specially provided for in this act," and it may well be that
Congress thought that the manufacture of felts, plushes, etc.,
required so much more labor than that of cloth and knit
fabrics, as to justify subjecting them, to the higher duty of
manufactured articles, like clothing and wearing apparel.
But more significant is the change made in the provisions
of the tariff of 1890 from those in that of March 3, 1883, 22
Stat. 488, c. 12L A paragraph of that tariff act (22 Stat. 509,)
is as follows:
"Clothing, ready made, and wearing apparel of every
description, not specifically enumerated or, provided for in
this act, and balmoral skirts, and skirting, and goods of
similar description, or used for like purposes, composed
wholly or in part of wool, worsted, the hair of the alpaca,
goat or other animals, made up or manufactured wholly or
in part by the tailor, seamstress or manufacturer, except knit
goods, forty cents per pound, and in addition thereto, thirtyfive per centum dd valorem."
Knit goods, it will be perceived, are excepted from the

ARNOLD v. 'UNITED STATES. ,
Opinion of the Court.

description of "clothing, ready made, and wearing apparel of
every description." In Brnown v. MarJayland, 12 Wheat. 419,
438, Chief Justice Mharshall recognized as "a rule of interpre.tation, to which all assent, that the exception of a particular
thing from general words proves that, in the opinion of the
law-giver, the thing excepted would be within the general
clause had-the exception not been made." Applying that rule
it follows that but for the exception the general description of
"clothing, ready made, and wearing apparel" would include
knit goods; and when by the legislation of 1890 this exception was stricken out, it is very persuasive that Congress
understood and intended that no articles of wearing apparel
should be excepted from the enumeration of paragraph 396,
because they were knit goods or fabrics.
And again, there is some significance in the substitution of
the term "knit fabrics" in the act of 1890, for "knit goods,"
in that of 1883. For while they are frequently interchangeable, it would seem as though "knit goods" more appropriately
described manufactured articles ; while "knit fabrics" referred
more especially to manufactured material, piece goods. Thus
in the subsequent description, in paragraph 396, are these
words, "plushes and other pile fabrics." Obviously they refer
to manufactured material rather than manufactured articles.
And in this connection it is ivell to notice that, according to
the testimony, there are goods known to the trade which are
piece goods, an, which are fabrics made on knitting machines
or frames. One 'witness, John D. Ashwell, manager of the
Norfolk and New Brunswick Hosiery Company,-a company
dealing in undershirts, drawers and hosiery, and who had
been connected with 'that company for eighteen years, testified that he had never heard such articles called "knit fabrics,"
saying: "I 'never had a man ask me for knit fabrics in our line
of business that I know of. Had he written to me for knit
fabrics, I should have told him that we did not have them,
that we did not 'sell them, and sent him to parties who did
make them."' The change 'of the term, therefore, strengthens
the conclusion deduced fron other considerations.
Our conclusion, therefore, iยง that there was no'e6rdro n the
decisio'n of the Circit 'Court, and it is
'
''
.4Arme.
-

