INOBLE v. UNION RIVER LOGGING RAILROAD.

165

Statement of the Case.

NOBLE

t.

UNION RIVER LOGGING RAILROAD
COMPANY.

.APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 1157. Argued December 20,1892.-Decided January 9,1893.
A decision of the Secretary of the Interior, in exercise of the powers conferred upon him by the act of March 3, 1875, c. 152, 18 Stat. 482, that a
designated railroad company is entitled to a right of way over public
land, cannot be revoked by his successor in office.
Whether a railroad company applying for such a grant is a compauy which
the statute authorizes to receive a grant of a right of way is a quasi
judicial question, which, when once determined by the Secretary, is finally
determined so far as the executive is concerned.

THIS was a bill in equity by the Union River Logging Railroad Company to enjoin the Secretary of the Interior and the
Commissioner of the General Land Office from executing a
certain order revoking the approval of the plaintiff's maps for
a right of way over the public lands, and also from molesting
plaintiff in the enjoyment of such right of way secured to it
,under an act of Congress.
The bill averred in substance that the Union River Loggiig
Railroad Company was organized March 20, 1883, under
chapter 185 of the Territorial Code of Washington.authorizing
.
the purpose of
the formation of '" corporations for
building, equipping and running railroads," etc. The articles
declared the business and objects of the corporation to be "the
building, equipping, running, maintaining and operating of a
railroad for the transportation of saw-logs, piles and' other
timber, and wood and lumber, and to charge and receive
compensation and tolls therefor . . . from tide water in
Lynch's Cove, at the head of Hood's Canal, in said Mason
County, and running tbhnce in a general northeasterly direction, by the most practicable route; a distance of about ten
miles, more or legs," etc. The capital stock of the company,
being subscribed, the company proceeded by degrees to con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

struct and equip a road extending from tide water in Lynch's
Cove, about four miles along the line above mentioned, to
transport saw-logs and other lumber and timber. On August
17, 1888, amended articles of incorporation were filed, "to
construct and equip a railroad and telegraph -line" over a
much longer route; With branches, and "to maintain and operate said railroad and branches, and carry freight and passengers thereon and receive tolls therefor." Also "to engage
and carry on a general logging business and prbvide for the
cutting, hauling, transportation, buying, owning, acquiring
and selling of all kinds of logs, piles, poles, lumber and
timber."
In the spring of 1889, plaintiff proceeded to extend its line
of road for three miles beyond the point to which it had previously extended it. It located at intervals a better line of
road; made and ballasted a new roadbed of standard gauge;
and substituted steel rails and another locomotive in place of
those rails and equipments.which had been sufficient for its
limited purposes, as specified in the original articles. In January, 1889, the company, desiring to avail itself of an act of
Congress of March 3, 1875, (18 Stat. 482,) granting to railroads a right of way through the public lands of the United
States, filed with the register of the land office at Seattle a
copy of its articles of incorporation; a copy of the territorial
law under which the company was organized, and the other
doctiments required by the act, together with a map showing
the termini of the road, its length, and its route through the
public lands according to the. public surveys. These papers
were transmitted to the Commissioner of the Land Office, and
by him to the Secretary of the Interior, by whom they were
approved in writing, and ordered to be filed. They were
accordingly filed at once and the plaintiff notified thereof.
On June 13, 1890, a copy of an order by the appellant,
successor in office to the Secretary of Interior by whom the
maps were approved, was served upon the plaintiff, requiring it to show cause why said approval should not be revoked
and annulled.

This was followed by an order of the acting Secretary of

NOBLE v. UNION RIVER LOGGING RAILROAD.

167

Argdwont for Appellants.

the Interior, annulling and cancelling such maps, and directing the Commissioner of the Land Office to carry out the
order.
The answer admitted all the allegations of fact in the bill,
and averred that it became known to the defendants that the
plaintiff was not engaged in the business of a common carrier'
of passengers and freight at the time of its application, but in
the transportation of logs for the private use and benefit of
the several persons composing the said company, and that,
being advised that a railroad company carrying on a merely
private business was not such a railroad company as was contemplated by the act of Congress, deemed it their duty to
vacate and annul the action of Mr. Vilas, then Secretary of
the Interior, approving plaintiff's maps of definite location,
and to that end caused bhe notice complained of in the bill to
be served. They further claimed it to be their duty to revoke
and annul the action of the former Secretary of the Interior
as having been made improvidently and on false suggestions,
and without authority under the statute.
Upon a hearing upon the bill, answer and accompanying
exhibits, the court ordered a decree for the plaintiff, and an
injunction as prayed for in the bill. Defendants appealed to
this court.
- r.Assistant Attorney General.2auryfor appellants.
From the pleadings it is to be taken as true that complainant was not at the time of its application to be allowed to
enjby the privileges extended by the act of March 3, 1815,
engaged in the business of a common carrier of passengers
and freight, but was engaged at that time in the transportation
of logs for the private.use and benefit of the persons composing said complainant company, and that the action of the
Secretary of the Interior on complainant's application was
induced by complainant's false suggestions.
The bill doesnot contain a single allegation that complainant was exercising the public duty of a common carrier of
passengers and freight at the time the order of January 29,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellants.

1889, was entered by the Secretary of the Interior. Nor is it
denied that the railroad companies contemplated by the act
of March 3, 1875, are such as exercise the public office of
carriers for the general public. The foundation on which the
whole case of complainant rests is the contention that the
right of complainant to enjoy the privileges of the act of
March 3, 1875, is reo judicata by the said order of January
29, 1889, and that this order cannot be assailed collaterally
by the defendants, and can. only be impeached by a direct
proceeding instituted for that purpose in the .jame of the
United States.
It resultsi therefore, that the bill presents the bald case, that,
although it has come to the knowledge of Secretary Noble
that complainant was not exercising the office of a common
carrier at the t~me the order of January 29, 1889, was entered,
and so was not entitled to the benefits of the act of March 3,
1875, the Secretary cannot remove from the maps of the
Land Department the line of definite location which was put
there by means of complainant's false suggestions. Why,
then, it may be asked, should the government be driven to
the circuitous proceeding of a suit in chancery in order to get
rid of this intruder on its domain? This question seems to be
answered satisfactorily by the Attorney General in an opinion
on this case, 19 Opin. Attorneys Gen'l, 551, 552, where he says:
"It follows, then, that the application to the Department was
for a purpose not authorized by law, and that the action taken
in granting the application was void, it being perfectly clea
that no disposition can be made of any part of the public
domain without the authority of Congress. . . . To hold
that the Department cannot in this case cancel its approval
and erase the line of the railroad from the public plats, but
that the United States must-go into a court of equity for that
purpose, would seem to urge the conclusiveness of executive
action to an -nureasonable extent. The principle of rs judicata, while to some extent applicable to the action of executive officets, has never been held to prevent an officer from
reopening a matter in which he acted on a mistake of fact, or
where new and additional eviden'ce, which would justify a

:NOBLE v. UNION RIVER LOGGING RAILROAD.

169

Argum'ent for Appellants.

new trial or a rehearing, has been adduced. . . . In the
case before me it is entirely practicable for the Department to
remove the line of railroad, from the public plats, both here
and in the local ]and office, and thus, effectually, cancel the
approval improvidently given. It is not necessary, in order
to undo what has been done, to compel the company to surrender any paper' for -cancellation, because it is the public
plats alone that need to be changed, and these are under the
entire control of the Department of the Interior. . . . It
would seem to be a useless circuity to have recourse to judicial
proceedings to correct executive action in a case. like the one
in hand, where there is a concurrence of mistake of fact and
want of power in the Department, and where the void proceeding is an obstacle in the way of 'the Land Office."
I do not'deny that the acts of the Land Department, when
within its powers, may be controlling; and, when not con.
trolling, may be protected against collateral attack. Yet
there are vital conditions to the jurisdiction of that Department, the absence of which may always be shown collaterally.
Smelting Coryanyr '. .emVp, 104: U. S. 636; Wilcox v. Jac son, 13 Pet. 498; Seymour v. Osborne, 11 Wall. 516.
Where the law creates a tribunal of special, stilted jurisdiction, dependent on the txistence of a certain fact or certain
facts, and is silent as to whether the decision of the tribunal
shall be conclusive as to the existence of such fact or facts, it
must be determined, from the whole law, what was the legislative intent in this particular.
Why should the Secretary of the Interior, with his limited
power under the act, ,b6 held to be able to make jurisdiction
for himself by his own finding, -when he possesses no such power
in administering other land laws? Is it not more agreeable to
reason to hold that Congress, in making this law, must have
hiad in 'view the restrictive interpretation which this court had
placed on previous laws investing the Secretary of the Interior
with judicial authority over the publi6. lands, and must have
intended
to adopt that interpretation ?
There, is
a class of courts -dhose jurisdiction turns
on the
existence of some fact pr facts, and whose judgments may be

OCTOBER TERM 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

assailed collaterally by proving that in a given case, such fact
or facts did not exist, whether the court expressly found the

contrary or not, and it is not perceived that there is any good
reason why the Secretary of the Interior should not likewise
be forbidden to give himself jurisdiction by his own findings
of fact. See GriffltA v. Frazier, 8 Orancl, 9; K.ane v. Paul,
14 Pet. 33; Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch, 211; Thompson V.
Whiiman, 18 Wall. 457; Bowman v. Russ, 6 Cowen, 234;
Terry v. Huntington,' Hardres, 480; Wise v. Withers, 3
(ranch, 331; ./ills v. .Martin,19 Johns. 7; R2dthbun v. -Martin, 20 Johns. 343 ; Sears v. Terry, 26-Connecticut, 273 ; Britain v. R innaird,1 Brod. & Bing. 432; Wanzer v. Eowland,
10 Wisconsin, 8; Broadkead v. .lConnell, 3 Barb. 176; Damp
v. Towu of Dane, 29 Wisconsin, 419; Xfulligan v. Smith, 59
California, 206; Peters v. Peters, 8 Cush. 529; Jenks v. -Howland, 3 Gray, 536; Williamson v. Berry, 8 How. 495; Allen
v. Dundas, 3 T. R. 125.
To make a thing adjudged there must be a contentious proceeding with plaintiff hnd defendant. But the application of
the complainant for privileges un4er the act of larch 3, 1875,
was essentially ex paorte. His case is on all fours with the
case of United States v. .Afinor, 114 U. S. 233; where it was
held thit the United States are not bound, in cases like the
present by the action of land officers in granting public lands.
Schurz's Case, 102 U. S.378, was a case of jurisdiction, exhausted by the sheer force of its exercise, and when .the Secretary attempted to recall his act he.was alreadyfunctus offlcio.
But in the case at bar the Department never had jurisdiction.
What Secretary Vilas did was a nullity. What Secretary
Noble proposes to do is to deal with it as a nullity.
_Mr. Frederio A. ffcenney, (with whom was Xr. S. F.
Phillps on the brief,) for appellee.
MRT.

Tus'Txci.

BRowN,- after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Tl~is case involves not only the power c4f
this court to enjoin
the IHead of a Dppartment, but the power of a Secretary of

1 OBLE v. UNION RIVER LOGGING RAILROAD.

171,

Opinioi of the Court.

the Interior to annul the action of his predecessor, when such
action operates to give effect to a grant of public lands to a
railroad corporation.
1. With regard to the judicial power in cases of this kind,
it was held by this court as early as 1803, in the great case of
.arbuy v..Madison, 1 Cranch, 137, that there was a distinction between acts involving the exercise of judgment or discretion and those which are purely ministerial; that, with
respect to the former, there exists, and can exist, no power to
control the executive discretion, however erroneous its exercise
may seem to have been, but with respect to ministerial duties,
an act or refiiial to act is, or may become, the subject of review
by the courts. The principle of this case was applied in Zendafl v. Stokes, 12 Pet. 524, and the action of the Circuit Court
sustained in a proceeding where it had commanded the. Postmaster General to credit the relator with a certain sum awarded
to him b1y the Solicitor of the Treasury under an act of Congress authorizing the latter to adjust the claim, this being
regarded as purely a ministerial duty. In Decatur v. Paulding, 14 Pet. 497, a mnandamus was refused upon the same
principle, to compel the Secretary of the Navy to allow to the
widow of Commodore Decatur a certain pension and arrearages. Indeed, the reports of this court abound with authorities to the sanie effect. Xendall v. Stzkes, 3 How. 87; Brashear v. -Mason, 6 HoO. 92; 1?eeside v. Walker, 11 How. 27-2;
Commissioner of- Patents v. Whiteley, 4 Wall. 522; United
States v. Seaman, 17 How. 224, 231 ; United States v. Gtthrie,
17 How. 284; United States v. The Commissioner, 5 Wall.
563; Gaines v. Thonmpson, 7 Wall. 347; ThAe Secretary v.
.7ifGarrdhan,9 Wall. 298; Uriited States v. Sehurz; 102 U. S.
878; ButterwortA v. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50; United States v.
Blacek, 128 U. S. 40. In all these cases the distinction between judicial and ministerial acts is commented upon and
enforced.
We have no doubt the principle of these decisions applies to
a case wherein it is contended that the act of the Head of a
Department, under any view that. could be takefi-of the facts
that were-laid before him, was ultra vires, and'beyond :the

OCTOBER TERtM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

scope of his authority. If he has no power at all to do the
act complained of, he is as much subject to an injunction as
he would be to a mandamus if he refused to do- an act which
the law plainly required him to do. As observed by Mr. Tustice Bradley in Board of liquidation v. MoComb, 92 U. S.
531, 541: "But it has been well settled that when a plain
official duty, requiring no exercise of discretion, is to be performed, and performance is refused, any person who will sustain personal injury by such refusal may have a mandamus to
compel its performance; andwhen such duty is threatened
to be violated by some. positive official act, any person who
will sustain personal injury thereby, for which adequate comipensation cannot be had at law, may have an injunction to
prevent it. In such cases the writs of mandamus and injunction are somewhat correlative to each other."
2. At the time the dscuments required by the act of 1875
were laid: before Mr. Vilas, then Secretary of the Interior, it
became. his duty to examine them, and to determine, amongst
other things, whether the railroad authorized by the articles
of. incorporation was- such a one as was contemplated by the
act of Congress. Upbn being satisfied of this fact, and that
all the other requiremaients of the act had been observed, he
was authorized to approve the profile of the road, and to cause
such approval to be noted upon the plats in the land office for
the district where such land was located. 'When this was done,
the granting section of the act became operative, and vested
in the railroad company a right of way through the public
lands to the extent of 100 feet on bach side of the bentral line
of the toad. Frasher v. O'Connor, 115 U. S. 102.
The position of the-defendants in this counection is, that the.
existence of a railroad, with the duties and liabilities of a common carrier of freight and- passengers, was a jurisdictional fact,
without which the Secretary had no power to act, and that in
this case' he was imposed upon -by the fraudulent representationg of the plaintiff, and that it was competent for his successor to revoke the approval thus obtained; in other -words, that
the proceedings were a nullity, and that his want of jurisdiction to approve the map may be set up as a defence to this suit.

NOBLE v. UNION

RIVER LOGGING RAILROAD.

173

Opinion, of the Court.

It is true that in every proceeding of a judicial nature, there
are one or more facts which are strictly jurisdictional, the existence of which is necessary to the validity of the proceedings,
and without which the act of the court is a mere nullity; such,
for example, as the service of process within the State upon
the defendant in a common law action, D'Arcy v. Ketchum ,
11 How. 165; Webster v. Reid, 11 How. 437; Harrisv. Ilardeman, 14 How. 334; Pennoyer v. 2Vef, 95 U. S. 714; Borden
v. -Fitch,15 Johns. 121; the seizure and possession of the 'es
within the bailiO ,k in a proceeding -in rem, Rose v. Jignely,
4 Cranch, 241; TYwmpson v. Whitman/, 18 Wall. 457; a publication in strict accordance with the statute, where the property
of an absent defendant is sought to be charged, Galpin v.
Page, 18 Wall. 35'0; Guaranty Trust Co. v. Green Cove Railroad, 139 U. S. 137. So, if the court appoint an administrator
of the estate of a living person,,or, in a case where there is an
executor capable of acting, Griffith v. Fr'azier, 8 Cranch, 9;
or condemns as lawful prize a vessel tl
vas never captured,
Rose v. ilimely, 4 Cranch, 241, 269; or a court-martial proceeds and sentences a person not in the military or naval
service, Wise v. Withers, 3 Cranch, 331; or the Land Department issues a patent for land which has already been reserved
or granted to another jerson, the act is not voidable merely,
but void: In these and similar cases the action of the court or
officer fails for want of jurisdiction over the person or subjectmatter. The proceeding is a nullity, and its invalidity may be
shown in a collatdral proceeding.
There is, however, another class of facts which are termed
.quasi jurisdictional, which are necessary to be alleged and
proved in order to set the machinery of the law in motion,
but which,, when properly alleged and established to the satis*faction of the court, cannot be attacked collaterally. With
respect to these facts, the finding of the court is as conclusively
presumed to be correct as its finding with respect to any other
matter in issue between the parties. Examples of these are the
,allegations and proof of the requisite diversity of citizepship,
or the amount in controversy in a Federal court, which, when
found .by such court, cannot be questioned collaterally; Des

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

.3loines Nav. Co. v. Iowa Homestead Co., 123 U. S. 552; In
re Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200, 220; the existence and amount of
the debt of a petitioning debtor in an involuntary bankruptcy;
-Mliehaels v. Post, 21 Wall. 398; Betts v. Bagley, 12 Pick.
572; the fact that there is insufficient personal property to
pay the debts of a decedent, when application is made to sell
his real estate; Comstock v. Crawford,3 Wall. 396; Grignon's
Lessee v. Astor, 2 Hoy. 319; Florentinev. Barton,2 Wall. 210 ;
the fact that one of the heirs of an estate had reached his
majority, when the act provided that the estate should not be
sold if all the heirs were minors; Thormpson v. Tolmie, 2 Pet.
157; and 6thers of a kindred nature, where the want of jurisdiction does not go to the subject-matter or the parties, but to
a preliminary fact necessary to be proven to authorize the
court to act. Other cases of this description are, Hudson v.
Guestier,6 Oranch, 281; .ExparteWatkins, 3 Pet. 193: United
States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691, 709; Dyckman v. Yew York
City, 5 N. Y. 434; Jackson v. Crawfords, 12 Wend. 533; Jackson v. Robinson, 4 Wend. 434; .Fisherv. Bassett, 9 Leigh, 119,
131; YJT.ight v. Douglass, 10 Barb. 97, 111. In this class of
cases, if the allegation be properly made, and the jurisdiction
be found by the court, such finding is conclusive and binding
in every collateral proceeding. And even if the court be
imposed upon, by false testimony, its finding can only be
impeached in a proceeding instituted directly for that purpose.
Simms v. &acum, 3 Cranch, 300.
This distinction has been taken in a large number of cases
in this court, in which the validity of land patents has been
attacked collaterally, and it has always been held that the existence of lands subject to be patented was the only necessary
prerequisite to a valid patent. In the one class of cases, it is
held that if the land attemptad to be patented had been reserved; or was at the time no part of -the public domain, the
Land Department had no jurisdiction over it and no power or
authority to dispose of it. In such cases its action in certifying the lands under a railroad grant, or in issuing a patent, is
not merely irregular, but absolutely void, and may be shown
to be so in any collateral proceeding. Polk's Zessee v. IFen-

IOBLE v. UNIONT RIVER LOGGING RAILROAD.

175

Opinion of the Court.

dall, 9 Cranch, 87; Pattersonv. Winn, 11 Wheat. 380; aekson v. Lawton, 10 Johns. 23; Xinter v. Crommelin, 18 How.
87; Reichart v. Felps, 6 Wall. 160; -EansasPaelf% Raiclway
v. _Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629; United States v. Southern Pacifw
Railroad, 146 U. S. 570.
Upon the other hand, if the patent be for lands which the
Land Department had authority to convey, but itwas imposed
upon, or was induced by false representations to issue a patent,
the finding of the department upon such facts cannot be collaterally impeached, and the patent can only be avoided by proceedings taken for that purpose. As was said in Smelting Co. v.
.Kerp, 104 U. S. 636, 640: "In that respect, they" (the officers
of the Land Department) "exercise a judicial function, and,
therefore, it has been held in various instances by this court
that their judgment as to matters of fact, properly determinable by them, is conclusive when brought to notice in a collateral proceeding. Their judgment in such cases is, like that of
other special tribunals upon matters within their exclusive
jurisdiction, unassailable except by a direct proceeding for its
.correction or annulment." In French v. Fyan, 93 U. S. 169,
it was held that the action of the Secretary of the Interior
identifying swamp lands, making lists thereof and issuing
patents therefor, could not be impeached in an action at law
by showing that the lands Which the patent conveyed were
not in fact swamp and overflowed lands, although his jurisdiction extended only to lands of that class. Other illustrations
of this principle are found in Johnsdn v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72;
.1foorev. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530; Steel v. Smelting Co., 106 U. S.
447; Quinby v. Conlan, 104 U. S. 420; Vance v. Burbank, 101
U. S. 514; Hoofnagle v.'Anderson, 7 Wheat. 212; _Erhardt
v. 11ogaboom, 115 U. S.67. In Mfoore v. Robbins, 96 U. S.530,
533, it was said directly that it is a part of the daily business
of officers of the Land Department to decide when a party has
by purchase, by preemption or by any other recognized mode,
established a right to receive from the government a title to
any part of the public domain. This decision is subject to an
appeal to the Secretary of the Interior, if taken in time; "but
if no such appeal be taken, and the patent issued under the

OCTOBER TERNj 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

seal of the United States, and sign J by the President, is delivered to and accepted by the party, trie title of the government
passes with this delivery. With the title passes away all
authority or control of the Executive Department over the
land, and over the title which it has conveyed.
. The
functions of that department necessarily cease when the title
has passed from the government."
We think the case under consideration falls within this latter
class. ' The lands over which the right of way was granted
were public lands subject to the operation of the statute, and
the question whether the plaintiff was entitled to the benefit
of the grant was one which it was competent for the Secretary
of the Interior to decide, and when decided, and his approval
was noted upon the plats, the first section of the act vested
the right of way in the railroad company. The language of
that section is "that the right of way thrbugh the public lands
of the United States is hereby granted to any railroad company duly organized under the laws of any State or Territory,"
etc. The uniform rule of this court has been that such an act
was a grant in prwsenti of lands to be thereafter identified.
Railway Company v. Alling, 99 U. S. 463. The railroad
company became at once vested with a right of property in
these lands, of which they can only be deprived by a proceeding taken directly for that purpose. If it were made to appear
that the right of way had been obtained by fraud, a bill would
doubtless lie by the United States for the cancellation and
annulment of an approval thus obtained. Aoftat v. United
States, 112 U. S. 24; United States v. Minor, 114 U. S. 233.
A revocation of the approval of the Secretary of the Interior,
hov'ever, by his successor in office was an attempt to deprive
the plaintiff of its property without due process of law, and
was, therefore, void. As was said by Mr. Justice Grier, in
United States v. Stone, 2 Wall. 525, 535: "One officer of the
land office is not competent to cancel or annul the act of his
predecessor. That is a judicial act and requires the judgment
of a court." .Moore v. Robb5ins, 96 U. S. 530. The case of'
United States v. Shurz, 102 U. S.378, 402, is full authority
for the position assumed by the plaintiff in the case at bar.

