CASES ADJUDGED
IN TH

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.

IOWA v. ILLINOIS.
ORIGINAL.

No.5.

Original. Subruitted November 28, 1892,-Decided January 3,1893.

The true line, in a navigable river between States of the Union which separates the jurisdiction of one from the other, is the middle of the main

channel of the river.
In such case the jurisdiction of each State extends to the thread of the
stream, that is, to the "mid-channel," and, if there be several channels,
to the middle of the principal one, or, rather, the one usually followed.
The boundary line between the State of Iowa and the State of Illinois is the
middle of the nain navigable channel of the Mississippi River.
As the two States both desire that this boundary line be established at the
places where the several bridges mentioned in the pleadings cross the
Mississippi River, it is ordered that a commission be appointeq to ascertain and designate at said places the boundary line between the two States,
and that such commission be required to make the proper examination,
and to delineate on maps prepared for that purpose, the true line as
determined by this court, and report the same to the court for its further
action.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John Y. tone' Attorney General of the State of Iowa,
and ffr. James . -Davisfor complainant.
Vol. CXLV-.--

1

OCTOBER TERM:, 1892.
Opinion of the Court."
.Ar. George Hunt, Attorney General of the State of Illinois,
for respondent.
-MR. JUSTICE FIELD

delivered the opinion of the courm.

The Mississippi River flows between the States of Iowa and
illinois. It is a navigable stream and constitutes the boundary
between the two States; and the controversy between them is
as to the position of the line between its banks or shores which
separates the jurisdiction of the two States for the purposes of
taxation and other purposes of government.
The complainant, the State of Iowa, contends that, for taxation, and for all other purposes, the boundary line is the middle
of the maia body of the river, taking the middle line between
its banks or shores without regard to the "steamboat channel,"
as it is termed, or deepest part of the stream, and that, to determine the banks or shores, the measurements must be taken
when the water is in its natural or ordinary stage, neither
swollen by floods nor shrunk by droughts.
On the other hand, the defendant, the State of Illinois,
claims that, for taxation and all other purposes, its jurisdiction
extends to the middle of "the steamboat channel" of the river,
wherever that may be, whether on its east or west bank -the
channel upon which commerce on the river by steamboats or
other vessels is usually conducted, and which for that reason is
sometimes designated as " the channel of commerce."
The State of Iowa in its bill alleges: That prior to and at
the time of the treaty between England, France and Spain, in
1763, 3 Jenkinson's Treaties, 177, the territory now comprising the State of Iowa was under the dominion of France, and
the territory now comprising the State of Illinois was under the
dominion of Great Britain, and that, by the treaty named, the
middle of the river Mississippi was made the boundary line
between the British and French possessions in North America.
That by the treaty of Paris between Great Britain and the
United States, which was concluded September 3, 1783, 3 Jenkinson's. Treaties, 410, Art. II, and 8 Stat. 80, the territory
comprising the State of Illinois passed to the United States;

IOWA v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

and that by the purchase of Louisiana from France, under the
treaty of April 30, 1803, 8 Stat. 200, the territory comprising
the State of Iowa passed to the United States.
That the boundary between the territory comprising the
States of Illinois and Iowa remained the middle of the river
Mississippi, as fixed by the treaty of 1763.
That by the act of Congress of April 18, 1818, known as the
act enabling the people of Illinois to form a State constitution,
(3 Stat. 428, c. 67,) the northern and -estern boundaries of
Illinois were defined as follows: Starting in 'the middle of
Lake Michigan, at north latitude forty-two degrees and thirty
minutes, "thence west to the middle of the Mississippi River,
and thence down along the middle of that river to its confluence with the Ohio River," and that the constitutions of Illinois of 1818, 1848 and 1870 defined the boundaries in the same
way.
And the bill further alleges that the State of Illinois and its
several municipalities bordering on the Mississippi River claim
the right to assess and do assess and tax, as in Illinois, all
bridges and other structures in the river from the Illinois shore
to the middle of the steamboat channel, or channel of the river
usually traversed by steam and other crafts in carrying the
commerce of the river, whether such channel is east or west of
the middle of the main body or arm 6f the river; and that they
thus assess and tax, as in that State, the bridge of the Keokuk
and Hamilton Bridge Company across the river from Keokuk,
Iowa, to Island No. Four, in Hancock County, Illinois, from
the west shore of the island westward 2462 feet to the,east end
of the draw of the bridge, and to a point not over 580 feet east
from the Iowa shore of the river and 941 feet west of the
middle of the main arm or body of the river at that point.
That the steamboat channel, or channel of the river where
boats ordinarily ran in carrying the commerce of the river,
varies from side'to side of the river, sometimes being next to
the Illinois shore and then next to the Iowa shore, and, at
most points in the river, shifting from place to place as the
sands of its bed are changed by the current of the water; that
at the point of the Keokuk and Hamilton bridge mentioned

OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the river bed is rock and not subject to much change; that at
that point, were it not for the bridge, the middle of the steamboat channel would be, and was before the bridge was erected,
fully 300 feet east of the east end of the draw in the bridge, or
880 feet from the Iowa shore of the river and 2162 feet from
the shore of the river in Illinois on Island No. Four; that at
,,places in the river there are two or more channels equally
accessible and useful for navigation by steamboats and other
crafts carrying the commerce of the river; and that at the
Keokuk and Hamilton bridge the channel used by steamboats
is partly artificial, constructed by excavation of rock from the
river bed to facilitate the approach to the lock of the United
States canal immediately north of the bridge..
That the State of Iowa claims the right to tax all bridges.
across the river to the middle thereof, and does tax the Keokuk
and Hamilton bridge to its middle between the east and west
abutments thereof, that is, the west approach and abutment
200 feet and 1096 feet of the bridge proper, theteby treating,
for convenience of taxation, the middle of the bridge between
abutments as the middle. of the river at that point, but which
is in fact 225 feet less than one-half the distance across the
main arm or body of the river at that point.
That the State of Illinois and its municipalities assess, and
tax, as in that State, 716 feet of the bridge actually assessed
and taxed in Iowa, and 225 feet of the bridge in addition
thereto, located in Iowa but not taxed in that State.
That the Keokuk and Hamilton Bridge Company, owner of
the Keokuk and Hamilton bridge, is a corporation of both
of said States consolidated, and complains of such double
taxation.
That litigation is now pending over such taxation, and is
liable at any time to arise over the taxation of any of the
other bridges across the river between the said States, now
nine in number.
To the end, therefore, that the line between the States may
be definitely fixed by the only court having jurisdiction to do
so, the complainant prays that this court will take jurisdiction
of this bill, and that the State of Illinois be summoned and

IOWA v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

requested to answer it, waiving such answer being on oath,
and that upon the final hearing this court will definitely settle
the boundary between the States at the said several bridges.
To this bill the State of Illinois appeared by its
attorney
general and filed its answer, which denied that the boundary
line between the States of Iowa and Illinois is the middle
of the Mississippi River, and insisted that it is the middle of
the steamboat channel, or channel commonly used by boats in
carrying the commerce of the river, whether east or west of
the middle of the river. It 'admitted that the State and its
municipalities claimed the right to tax and did tax bridges and
other structures in the river to the middle of the steamboat
channel or channel of commerce, whether such channel was
east or west of the middle of the main body or arm of the
river, and did assess and tax the Keokuk and Hadililton bridge
to its draw and west of the middle of the main body or arm
of the river; and that the steamboat channel or channel of
commerce is first near one shore and then near the other, and
at other places nearly across the river. But it denied the right
of the State of Iowa to tax the bridges mentioned crossing
the Mississippi River to any point east of the middle of the
steamboat channel, or channel of commerce of that river.
To the answer a replication was filed by the State of Iowa.
At the time of filing its answer the State of Illinois filed
also its cross-bill, in which it alleges that there exist nine
bridges across thb Mississippi River between the States, the
most southern of which is the Keokuk and Hamilton Railroad
bridge and the most northern, the Dunlieth and Dubuque
Bridge Company's railroad bridge.
That for the purposes of taxation the State of Illinois and
its municipalities claim theright to assess and tax the respective bridges to the middle of the 'channel of commerce or
steamboat channel, that is, the channel usually used by steamboats and other crafts navigating the river; and that on the
part of the State of Iowa and its municipalities it is claimed'
that each State has'the right to assess and tax to the middle
of the main arm or body of the river, regardless of where the
channel of commerce or steamboat channel may be.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

That the Supreme Court of Iowa, in the case of The DunZieth and Dubugue Bridge Company v. The County of Dubugue,
(55 Iowa, 558,) held that thb authorities in, Iowa have the
right to tax such structures to the middle of the main arm or
body of the stream and no further, though at the point, where
such structure is situated the channel or part of the river fol,lowed by steamboat men in navigating the river is far east of
he middle of such main-body of the stream.
That following the decision in that case, the authorities in
Iowa assess and tax such structures to the middle of the main
body of the river.
That at the point of the location of the Keokuk and Hamilton bridge the main body of the river, before the construction
of the bridge, was between the Iowa shore at Keokuk, Lee.
County,' Iowa, and the west shore of Island No. Four, located
in the city of Hamilton, Hancock County, Illinois, a breadth
of about 3042 feet; that in constructing the bridge a solid
approach is extended from the shore at Keokuk into the river
200 feet, and from the shore on Island No. Four, in Illinois,
about 700 feet, and the main body of the river confined between the abutments to the bridge 2192 feet apart, and the
bridge consists of the east and west abutments, eleven piers, a
draw next to the west or Iowa abutment of 380 feet, and ten
spans, together 1812 feet.
That the middle of the steamboat channel, or that part of
the river usually traversed by steamboat men in navigating
the river, is at or near the east end of the draw or pivot span,
about 380 feet from the west abutment and 1$12 feet from
the east abutment.
That the assessor in Illinois in assessing the bridge values
the bridge to the eist end of the draw and assesses the same
against that part of the bridge in Illinois, and the authorities
in Iowa value and assess the bridge to the middle thereof,
1096 feet east from the west abutment, as in the State of
Iowa; that thereby 716 feet of the bridge are valued and
assessed both in Illinois and Iowa; that litigation is now
pending in the lower courts between the bridge company
and the authorities over the assessments, and that the same

IOWA v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

trouble and complications are liable to arise .over the assessment of any other of the bridges.
To the end, therefore, that the boundary line between the
States of Illinois and Iowa at said several bridges -may be
defined and settled, the State of Illinois prays that the State
of Iowa be made defendant to this cross-bill, and required to
answer it, and that upon the final hearing the court will
define and establish at each of the bridges the boundary lines
between the States of Illinois and Iowa, to which points the
respective States may tax. To this cross-bill the defendant,
the State of Iowa, answered, admitting the existence of nine
bridges across the Mississippi River, where it forms the boundary between the States of Illinois and Iowa, and that the
State of Illinois and its several municipalities bordering upon
the river claim the right to tax said bridges from the Illinois
shore cif the river to the middle of the channel of commerce
or steamboat channel, and that the State of Iowa and its
municipalities bordering on the river claim the right to tax
and do tax the several bridges to the middle of the main
arm or body of the river, regardless of where the channel of
commerce or steamboat channel, that is, that part of the
river usually traversed by steam or other vessels carrying
the commerce of the river, may be. It therefore prays that
upon. the final hearing the boundary lines between the two
States may be established, to which the respective States may
tax.
By setting down the case for hearing on the bill, answer
and replication, (without taking any testimony,) and on the
cross-bill and the answer to it; all the facts alleged in the answer to the original bill, as wireas those alleged in the crossbill and not denied in the answer, are thereby admitted.
When a navigable river constitutes the boundary between
two independent States, the line defining the point at which
the jurisdiction of the two separates is well established to be
the middle of the main channel of the stream. The interest of
each State in the navigation of the river admits of no other
line. The preservation by each of its equal right in the navigation of the'stream is the subject of paramount interest. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

is, therefore, laid down in all the recognized treatises on international law of modern times that the middle of the channel
of the stream marks the true boundary between the adjoining
States up to which each State will on its side exercise jurisdiction. In international law, therefore, and by the usage of
European nations, the term "middle of the stream," as applied to a navigable river, is the same as the middle of the
channel of such stream, and in that sense the terms are used
in the treaty of peace between Great Britain, France and
Spain, concluded at Paris in 1763. By the language, "a line
drawn along the middle of the river Mississippi from its
source to te river Iberville," as there used, is meant along
the middle of the channel of the river Mississippi. Thus
Wheaton, in his Elements of International Law, (8th ed.
192,) says:
"Where a navigable river forms the boundary of conter-minous States, the middle of the channel, or Dialweg, is
generally taken as the line of .separation between the two
States, the presumption- of law being that the right of navigation is common to both; but this presumption may be
destroyed by actual proof of prior opcupancy and long undisturbed possession, giving to one of the riparian proprietors the
exclusive title to the entire river."
And in § 202,-whilst thus stating the rule as to the boundary
line of the Mississippi River being the middle of the channel,
he states that the channel is remarkably winding, " crossing and
recrossing perpetually from one side.to the other of the general
bed of the river."
Mr. Greasy, in his First Platform 6n International Law,
231, p. 222, expresses the same doctrine. He says:
"It has -been stated- that, where a navigable river separates
neighboring 'States, the Thkcweg, or middle of the navigable
channel, forms the line of separation. Formerly a line drawn
along the middle of the water,.the medium flwm aguc, was
regarded as the boundary line; and still will be regarded
.primafacie as the boundary line, except as to those parts of
the river as to which it can be proyed that the vessels which
navigate those parts keep their course habitually along some

IOWA v., ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

channel different from the medium flum. When this is the
-ase,. the middle of the.channel of traffic is now considered to
be the line of demarcation."
Mr. Greasy also refers to the, language of Dr. Twiss on the
same subject, who observes that "Grotius and Yattel speak of
tke middle of tte 'river as the line of demarcation between two
jurisdictions, but modern publicists and statesmen prefer the
more accurate and more equitable boundary of the navigable
Midchannel. If there be more than one channel of a river, the
deepest channel is the Midchannel for the purposes -of territorial demarcation; and the boundary line will be the line
drawn along the surface of the stream corresponding to the
line of deepest depression in its bed.

.

.

.

The islands on

either side of the Mlidchannel are regarded as appendages to
either bank; and if they have pnce been taken possession of by
the nation to whose bank they are appendant, a change in the
Iffidchannel of the river will not operate to deprive that nation
of its possession, although the water-frontier line will follow
the change of the Midehannel."
Halleck in his Treatise on International Law, c. 6, § 23, is
to the same effect. He says: "Where the river not only separates the conterminous States, but also their territorial jurisdictions, the tlalweg, or middle channel, forms the line of
separation through the bays and estuaries through which the
waters of the river fl9 w into the sea. ' As a general rule, this
line runs through.the middle of the deepest channel, although
it may divide the'river and its estuaries into two very unequal
parts. But the deeper channel may be less suited, or totally
unfit for the purposes of navigation, in which case the dividing
line would be in the middle of the one which is best suited and
ordinarily used for that object."
Woolsey in his International Law, § 58, repeats the same
doctrine and says: "Where a navigable river forms the boundary between two States, both are presumed to have free use
of it, and the dividing line will run in the middle of the chan"nel, unless the contrary is shown by long occupancy or agreement of the parties. If a river changes its.bed, the line through
the old channel continues, but the eqcui'abe-ight to thelfree

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

use of the stream seems to belong, as before, to the State whose
territory the river has forsaken."
The middle of, the channel of a navigable river between
independe it States is taken as the true boundary line from the
obvious reason that the right of navigation is presumed to be
common to both in the absence of a special convention between
the neighboring States, or long use of a different line equivalent to such a conventi6n..
* I'hillimore, in his Commentaries on International Law, in
the chapter upon acquisitions, (c. xii,) speaks of decisions upon
the law of property.as incident to neighborhood proceeding
upon the piinciple that "midchannel" is the line of demarcation between the neighbors. (Vol. 1, 239.)
The reason and necessity of the rule of international law as
to the midchannel being the true boundary line of a navigable
river separating independent States may not be as cogent in
this country, where neighboring States are under the-same
-general-government, as in Europe, yet the same rule will be
held to obtain unless changed by statute or usage of so great
a length of time as to have acquired the force of law.
As we have stated, in international law hnd by the usage of
E.uropean nations, the terms "middle- of the stream" and
"midchannel" of a navigable river are synonymous and
interchangeably used. The enabling act of. April 18, i818,
(3 Stat. 428, c. 67,)under which Illinois adopted a constitution and became 'a State and was admitted into the Union,
made the middle of thd .AtisshMsippi River the western boundary of the State. The enabling act, of March 6, 1820, (3
Stat; c. 22, § 2, p. 545,) under which Missouri became a State
and was 4dmitted inta- the Union, made the middle of the
marchanel of the A issssiffi _River the eastern, boundary,
so far- as: its boudndary was- conterminous with the western
boundary of Illinois. The enabling act of August 6, 1846,
(9 Stat, 56, c. 89,) under which Wisconsin adopted a constitution
and became a State and was admitted into the Union, gives
.the -western 'boundary of that State, after reaching the river'
St. Croix, as. follows :- "Thence down the main channel of sid
tiver to the. Mississippi, thence down the centre of the main

10-WA v. ILIN
IOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

channel of that" (Mississippi) "river to the northwest corner
of the State of Illinois.". The Rorthwest corner of the State of
Illinois must therefore be in the middle of the main channel of
the river which forms a portion of its western boundary. It
is very evident that these terms, "middle of the Mississippi
iRiver," and "middle of the main channel of the Mississippi"
River," and "the centre of the main channel -of that river," as
thus used, are synonymous. It is not at all likely that the
Congress of the United States intended that those terms, as
applied to. the Mississippi River separating Illinois and Iowa,
should have a different meaning when applied to the.-Mississippi River sepa'rating Illinois from Missouri or a different
meaning when used as descriptive of a portion of the -western
boundary of Wisconsin. They were evidently used as signifying the same thing.
The question involved in this case has been elaborately
considered, both by the Supreme Court of Iowa and the
Supreme Court of Illinois, in cases relating to the assessment
and taxation of bridges crossing the Mississippi River, as to
the point to which the jurisdiction of each State for taxation
extends, and they differed in their conclusions. In .Dunlietk
and Dubuque Bridg Company v. County of Dubuque, 55 Iowa,
558, 565, the Supreme Court of Iowa., after observing that the
act of Congress admitting Iowa into the Union and the constitution of Iowa in \its preamble declare that the eastern
boundary of the State shall be "the middle of the main channel of Mississippi"River," proceeds to inquire what line is
understood by those words, "middle of the main channel."
The defendant maintained that the deep water of the stream
used in the navigation of the river was meant, while the
plaintiff insisted that the words described the bed in which
the stream of the river flows; that is, the bed over which the
water flows from bank to bank. The court thought that the
words, when applied to rivers generally, without the purpose
of describing their currents or navigable characters, always
bore the latter signification, observing that this was their
primary meaning, and was of opinion that they were used in
that sense in the act of Congress admitting the State into the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Union, and in the constitution of Iowa.

In stipport of this

view the court referred to the changing character of the cur-'
rents of the river followed by vessels, caused by the shifting
nature of the sand bars found in the river. "The course of
navigation," it said, "which follows what boatmen call the
channel, is extremely sinuous, and often changing, and is
unknown except to experienced navigators. On the other
hand, the bed of the- main river, designated by the word
channel, used in its primary sense, is the great body of water.
flowing down the stream; it is broad and well defined by
islands or the main shore. It cannot be possible that Congress and :the people of the State,. in describing its boundary,
used the word channel to describe the sinuous, obscure and
changing line of navigation, rather than the broad and distinctly defined bed of the main river. The centre of this
river bed channel may be readily determined, while the centre
of the navigable channel often could not be known with certainty. The first is a fit boundary line of a State; the second
cannot be."
In Buttenuthv. &t. £oui8 Bridge Co., 123 Illinois, 535, 548, the
Supreme Court of Illinois reached a different conclusion after
an elaborate consideration of the same question. That was
a ease where an alleged over-estimate was made of a bridge
crossing the Mississippi River at St. Louis, and the question
discussed was, how far did the jurisdiction of Illinois extend
over the river?. After observing that when a river is a boundary between States, as is the Mississippi between Illinois and
Missouri, it is the main-the permapent-river which constitutes the boundary, and not that part which flows in sbasons
of high water and is dry at others, the court proceeds, treating the Mississippi River as a common boundary between the
States of Illinois and Missouri, to inquire the meaning of the
term, "middle of the Mississippi River," used in the enabling
act/of Congress and in the constitution, defining the bound-,
aries of the State of Illinois. It .answers the inquiry by
observing that tbe'word "channel" is used as indicating "the
space within which ships can and usually do pass," and says:
"It is apprehended it is in this sense the expressions ' middle

IOWA v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

of the river,' ' middle of the main channel,' 'midehanuel'
-.middle thread of the channel,' are used in enabling acts of
Congress and in state constitutions establishing state boundaries. It is the free navigation of the river -when such river
constitutes a common boundary, that part on which boats can
and do pass, sometimes called 'nature's pathway.) -'that
States demand shall be secured to, them. When a river,
navigable in fact, is taken or agreed upon as the boundary
between two nations or States, the utility of the main channel,
or, what is the same thing, the navighble part of the river, is
too great to admit a supposition that either State intended to
surrender to the State or nation occupying the opposite shore
the whole of the principal channel or highway for vessels and
thus debar its own vessels the right of passing to and fro for
purposes of defence or commerce. That would be to surrender
all, or at least the most valuable part, of such river boundary,
for the purposes of commerce or other purposes deemed of
great value, to independent States or nations."
The opinions in both of these cases are able and present, in
the strongest terms, the different views as to the line of jurisdiction between neighboring States, separated by a navigable
stream; but we are of opinion that the controlling consideration in this matter is that which preserves to each State
equality in the right, of navigation in'the river. We therefore hold, in accordanpe with this vievd, that the true line in
navigable rivers between the States of the Union which separates the jurisdiciion of one from the other is the middle of
the main channel of the river. Thus the jurisdiction of each
State extends to the thread of the stream, that is, to the "midchannel," and, if there be several channels, to the middle of
the principal one, or, rather, the one usually followed.
It is therefore ordered, adjudged and declared that the
boundary line between the State of Iowa and the State *of
Illinois is the middle of the main navigable channel of the
Mississippi River. And, as the counsel of the two States both
desire that this boundary line be established at the places
where the several bridges mentioned in the pleadings -nine
in number- cross the Mississippi River, it is further ordered

