UNITED LINES TEL. CO. v. BOSTON TR UST CO.

431

Opinion of the Court.

latter must be regarded as having entered under their mother's
title, and not by reason of any invitation, express or implied,
from the railway company, and hencQ they assumed a like
risk, and are entitled to no other legal iieasure of redress..
No error being disclosed by these records, the judgment of
the court below is, in each case,

UNITED LINES TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. BOSTON
SAFE DEPOSIT AND TRUST COMPANY.
AP.PAL FROm THE cmcuiT coURT OF THE UNITED STATES TO
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 106. Argued January 5, 6,1S93.-Decided January 30,1893.

The question of priority between two niortgages on lines of telegraph,
considered.
A sale of real estate under judicial proceedings concludes no one who Is
not a party to those proceedings.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Robert G. Ingersoll-for appellants.
.211r. Willam G. Wilson, (with whom was XrM.HamiltoWn
TFallis on the brief,) for appellee.
MR,JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 28th of August, 1883, a
twritten agreement was
made' between the American Rapid Telegraph Company,
(hereinafter called the Rapid Company,) a Connecticut 'corporation, and the Bankers' and Merchants' Telegraph Company,
(hereinafter called the Bankers' Company,) a New York corporation. It recited that the Rapid Company was desirous -of
extending its telegraph system so as to connect Buffalo, New
York, by,a northerly route, with Chicago, Illinois; Pittsburg,

"OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

-Pennsylvania, via Columbus, Ohio, Indianapolis and Tdrre
Haute, Indiana) with St. Louis, Missouri; Columbus, Ohio,
-with Cincinnati, Ohio, and Louisville, Kentucky; and Terre
Haute, Indiana, with Chicago, Illinois; and that the Bankers' Company was in a position to contract for and cause the
construction or procurement, by purchase or otherwise, of portions or all of said lines. The agreement then provided as.
follows:
(1)" The Bankers' Company agreed to construct or acquire,
and to deliver to thp Rapid Company, a four-wire telegraph
line connecting the before-mentioned points, and to average
not less than 35 poles, 30 feet long, to the mile, with two No.
6 and two No. 8 gauge galvanized extra B-B wires thereon;
to procure all rights of way; to fit up and furnish all offices;
and to complete the whole within one year from the above
date.
.(2) The Rapid Company agreed to issue and deliver to the
Bankers' Company, as soon as might be, $3,000,000 par value
of first mortgage gold bonds, with coupons attached for 6 per
cent interest from March 1, 1884, to September 1, 1893, payable semi-annually, the bonds to be secured by a mortgage
dated September 1, 1883, covering all the franchises and property, including patents, of the Rapid Company, "as now owned
by it, or hereafter to be'acquired by it, including the lines and
property to be constructed or acquired under the provisions of
this contract."
(3) The floating debt of the Rapid Company, as a confidential obligation, having preference as to lien and payment
before the said $3,000,000 of bonds,was to be reduced by the
appropriation of the assets of the Rapid Company thereto,
and the balance then remaining unpaid, not exceeding $100,000, was assumed by the Bankers' Company.
(4) Any difference regarding the interpretation or fulfilment of the agreement should be submitted to the decision
and determination of Frederic H. May, whose decision should
be final-and binding on both companies.
On the 29th of August, 1883, a written agreement was made
between the Bankers' Company and George S. Bullens, of

UNITED LINES TEL. CO. v. BOSTON TRUST CO.

433

Opinion of the Court.

Boston, Massachusetts, holding for himself and others a majority in amount of the capital stock of the Rapid Company.
That agreement referred to and recited the terms of the agreement of August 28, 1883, before mentioned; that the Bankers'
Company was desirous of exchanging the whole or a large
portion of the $3,000,000 of bonds for the capital stock of the
Rapid Company; and that Bullens, acting for himself and
associates, was willing to make such exchange. It then provided as follows: (1) The Bankers' Company obligated itself,
as soon as it received the $3,000,000 of bonds of the Rapid
Company, under the agreement of.August 28, 1883, to deposit
the same forthwith in the hands of Bullens, as trustee, and
under a letter of instructions to him to hold them for exchange, dollar for dollar, with himself or others, for the stock
of the Rapid Company, said stock, as soon as received by the
trustee, to the extent of 51 per cent, to be handed over at
once to the Bankers' Company; the balance of such stock,
so received in exchange for bonds, or the balance of the bonds,
if any, not exchanged, was to be held by Bullens, as trustee,
until the completion of the lines of telegraph, agreed to be
built by the Bankers' Company under the agreement of
August 28, 1883, and until the payment of the floating debt
of the Rapid .Company, and then handed over to the Bankers'
Company; and the latter was to authorize Bullens to continue
the exchange of bonds for stock up to, but not beyond, sixty
days from August 29, 1883 ; (2) Bullens agreed to deliver to
himself as trustee, for the purpose of exchanging for the boinds,
not later than ten days from August 29, 1883, at least 51
per cent of the *otal stock of the Rapid Company, then
outstanding.
The Rapid Company had been formed for the construction
and operation of a system of telegraph lines. By the summer
of 1883, it had constructed and equipped lines from Boston,
Massachusetts, to Cleveland, Ohio, and Washington City.; but,
although its receipts from business then exceeded its outlay
for operating expenses, it found that it needed extensions.to
Chicago, Cincinnati, St. Louis and Louisville, and the intermediate points. It turned its attention to the Bankers' ComvoL. C;vii-28

OCTOBER TERIf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

pany, which, though having only a line from Kew York to
Washington City, was doing a good business, and had in it
men of means. It was supposed by both companies that each
had gomething of advantage to offer to the other. Accordingly, the agreement of August 28, 1883, was made, to connect
Bluffalolwith Chicago, Pittsburg with St. Louis, Terre Haute
witfh Chicago, and Cincinnati with Louisyille.
The agreements of August 28 and 29, 1883, were forthwith
acted upon. The mortgage of the Rapid Company to secure
the $3,000,000 of bonds was made September 15, 1883, to the
Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company, a Massachusetts corporation, (hereinafter called the Boston Company,) as trustee,
and by its terms covered all the property of the Rapid Company, as incorporated by Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Ohio, or
which might thereafter be acquired by those corporations, together with the lines of telegraph intended to be constructed
or acquired for the Rapid Company, so as to connect Buffalo
with Chicago, Pittsburg with St. Louis, Columbus with Cincinnati, and Louisville and Terre Haute with Chicago, and all
property then owned or thereafter acquired for use in connection with said lines or property, or any of them. The $3,000,000
of bonds were issued to the Bankers' Company, and it transferred them at once to Bullens. Bullens exchanged them for
the stock of the Rapid Company, so far as the holders of such
stock elected to make the exchange, and transferred the 51
per cent of the stock to the Bankers' Company, retaining the
remainder of the exchanged stock and all the unexchanged
bonds. The Bankers' Company entered at once upon the performance of its part of the agreement of August 28, 1883,
made a contract with'telegraph constructors to build the new
lines, and sent out men to locate those lines, under the supervision of Frederic I. May, who was the general manager of
the Rapid Company.
All went on smoothly until May, 1884, when the Bankers'
Company became financially embarrassed. At that date the
line fr6m Cleveland to Chicago had been substantially comipleted. The line between Freeport, Ohio, and Hammond, on.

UNITED LINES TEL. CO. v. BOSTON TRUST CO.

435

Opinion of the Court.
the State line between Indiana and Illinois, had been-built by
contract with Baldwin & Miller. The line between Cleveland
and Freeport, Ohio, was built by a contractor named Farnsworth; and the line between Hammond and Chicago was
built by employ~s of the Bankers' Company, without the intervention of any contractor. The four wires called for by
the agreement of August 28, 1883, were connected through
the different parts above mentioned, and the line was inspected
and found to be complete. The line ran into the city of
Cleveland over the poles which carried out of that city the
line of the Rapid Company to Pittsburg and the East, and the
two lines met and were connected by the same switch-board in
the Cleveland office. In June, 1884, returns were made to New
York of the business done by the offices between Cleveland
and Chicago. The four wires above mentioned were working
through to New York, and so continued to do, with the
exception of a brief interval in August, 1884, down to December 30, 1887, when the suit now before us was commenced.
In July, 1884, the line between Pittsburg and Terre Haute
was nearly completed, but there were gaps in it in various
places, and it had not been connected with the Rapid Company's system at Pittsburg. The work upon it, so far as it
had progressed, had been done by Baldwin & -Miller, before
mentioned, who stopped work in July or August, 1884.
Between the date of the agreement of August 28, 1883, and
the month of July, 1884, the Bankers' Company or its stockholders acquired a majority in the board of directors of the
Rapid Company, and elected or appointed the officers and
managers of the Bankers' Company to the corresponding positions in the Rapid Company. Thus, the same men controlled
the corporate machinery and property of both companies. A
practical union of the two properties was expected to result
from the complete performance of the agreement of August
28, 1883, and hence the Bankers' Company proceeded to string
additional wires over a large part of the original lines of the
Rapid Company, the receipts of the business of both companies went into a common treasury, and their operating ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

tienses were paid from the same source. A considerable sum,
also, was spent In the repair and improvement of the original
lines of the Rapid Company. The mortgage by the Rapid
Company for $3,000,000 was recorded in Ohio between
October 12 and December 22, 1883.
On November 24, 1883, the Bankers' Company, as a New
York corporation, and as a New Jersey corporation, and as a
Pennsylvania corporation, and as a Maryland corporation, executed a mortgage to the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company,
a New York corporation, as trustee, to secure $10,000,000 of
bonds of the Bankers' Company, and conveying all its property, including its "stocks of other companies" and "situate
within the States of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania
and Maryland, the District of Columbia, and within any other
State or Territory of the United States," then owned or
which might be thereafter acquired.
Default was made in the payment of the interest coupons
which became due September 15, 1884, on the $3,000,000 of
bonds of the Rapid Company. By the terms of the Rapid
Company's mortgage, however, no proceedings for foreclosure
could be begun until the default had continued for six months.
On March 23, 1885, the Boston Company, trustee under the
$3,000,000 mortgage, filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Connecticut, for the foreclosure of that mortgage.
One Austin G. Day having recovered a. judgment in the
Supreme Court of New York against the Bankers' Company,
sequestration proceedings followed, and on September 23, 1884,
Richard S. Newcombe and James G. Smith were appointed by
that court receivers of the Bankers' Companhy in -NewYork.
Those receivers were permitted to assume possession and control of the entire property of the Rapid Company, including
the new line between Cleveland and Chicago, which was then
in full operation as a part of the Rapid Company's system;
alid they were permitted to do so without any remonstrance
from the officers of the Rapid Company, those officers being
in fact the officers of the Bankers' Company and wholly in its
interest. Smith, one of the receivers, was assistant general

UNITED LINES TEL. CO. v. BOSTON TRUST CO.

437

Opinion of the Court.

manager of the Bankers? Company and also assistant general
manager of the Rapid Company.
In the foreclosure suit in Connecticut, the Boston Company
applied for the appointment of a receiver of the Rapid Company's property. That application was opposed by the receivers of the Bankers' Company, and by Edward S. Stokes,
as the holder of receivers' certificates issued by them, and also
by the'Rapid Company, represented by the same officers who
had- suffered those receivers to take possession and control of
the property of the Rapid Company. In spite of this opposition, the Connecticut court appointed Edward Harlan receiver
of the property of the Rapid Company, and his receivership
was extended over the whole property of that company by
the courts of the other jurisdictions through which that property ran. Newcombe and Smith were succeeded as receivers
by one James B. Butler, and he by John G. Farnsworth, wh?
was appointed May 1, 1885, in an action brought by the
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company to foreclose the $10,000,000
mortgage made by the Bankers' Company. In the latter suit,
a foreclosure sale was had July 31, 1885, and Stokes bid the
sum of $500,000 for the property of the Bankers' Company,
By his direction, that sale was completed by a conveyance
of the property to the United Lines Telegraph Company, a
New York corporation, the deed of the referee being dated
August 10, 18S5, and acknowledged and recorded November
14-16, 1885.
The suit now before us was brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of New York,
December 30, 1887, by the Boston Company against the
Bankers' Company, the United Lines C~mpany, Newcombe,
Smith, Butler, Farnsworth, Stokes and the Rapid Company,
as a Connecticut corporation. It is -founded on the fact that
there were conflicting claims to the title to the property
covered by the terms of the $3,000,000 mortgage, and is
brought in aid of the original suit in Connecticut, to determine those claims and ascertain what property was included
in the mortgage. It embraces issues as to the right and title
of the Rapid Company, and of. the plaintiff, as trustee under

OCTOBER TER-M, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the $3,000,000 mortgage, to (1) those of the original lines of
the Rapid Company called "reconstructed lines," which were
in some measure repaired and rebuilt after the agreement of
.August 28, 1883 ; (2) the "' strung wires," being wires strung
upon the lines of the Rapid Company after the date of that
agreement; and (3) the "Western lines," or lines described in
that agreement and built thereafter, so far as they were
built.
After issue'was joined in the present suit, proofs were taken,
and the case was heard before Judge Wallace. His opinion
was delivered September 19, 1888, (36 Fed. Rep. 288,) and a
final decree was entered April 4, 1889, adjudging that (1) as
to the reconstructed lines, they remained the property of the
Rapid Company; (2) as to the strung wires, they belonged to
the Bankers' Company; and (3) as to the Western lines, the
plaintiff having abandoned its claim to the unfinish(d southlerly line between Pittsburg and Indianapolis, and Insisted only
-that it was entitled to the northerly line between .Cleveland
and Chicago, (because that line was built and completed for
the Rapid Company under the agreement of August 28; 1883,
and was subject to the Rapid Company's mortgage,) the couit
so held. It is only this last point of the decision, affecting the
line between Cleveland and Chicago, that is now under review,
and the only appellants are the United Lines Company and
Stokes.
The United Lines Company claims the property in question
under its purchase on the decree of foreclosure of the $10,000,000 mortgage 'f the Bankers' Company, and asserts that its
title is paramount to that of the plaintiff.
The answer of Stokes in the suit is a joine'answer with the
United Lines Company, and alleges that part of the property
in controversy was sold on a judgment of the Court of Common Pleas of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, and that Stokes became
the purchaser of it at that sale. The opinion of Judge Wallace
says that as it appears that that sale was set aside and vacated
as vcrid, by an appellate court. having jurisdiction, and as
Stokes sets up in his answer no other right or claim, the controversy is reduced to the single question of. title to the prop-

UNITED LINES TEL. CO. v. BOSTON TRUST CO.

439

Opinion of the Court.

erty in dispute as between the plaintiff and the United Lines
Company.
The Circuit Court said, in view of the two agreements of
August, 1883, and of the testimony, that it was the understanding on the part of all concerned that the Bankers' Company was to acquire the property and control of the Rapid
Company by acquiring all or a majority of the stock of the
latter; that the stockholders of the Rapid Company, as an
inducement to their consent, were to receive for their stock,
dollar for dollar, the bonds of the Rapid Company secured by
a mortgage which was to cover, not only all the property then
owned by the company, but also the new lines which the
Bankers' Company, was to construct and deliver under the
agreement; that the new line of telegraph which was built by
the Bankers' Company, connecting the system of the Rapid
Company at Cleveland with Chicago, was built upon rights
of way secilred in the name of the Bankers' Company, or of
subordinate corporations of which that company was the
owner, and through which it acted; that Mr. May, who
represented the Rapid Company, was requested by the officers
of the Bankers' Company to supervise thie selection of the
route, and did so; that, while the line was in process of construction,'it was understood by those who represented the two
companies that it was being built to form a part of the lihe
which was to be a connected system between the Rapid Company at Buffalo, by a northerly route, and Qhicago; that the
portion of the new line which was to extend from Cleveland
to Buffalo by a northerly route was not commenced; that 1he
new line from Chicago to Cleveland was inspected and accepted
by the Bankers'. Company and was connected with the Rapid
Company's system at Cleveland, the wires running into tho
office of the Rapid Company there; that, as early as July,
1884-, the line was used as an adjunct of the Rapid Company's
system; that there was no formal transfer or delivery of that
line by the. Bankers' Company to the Rapid Company; that
detached portions of the lines from Pittsburg to St. Louis, by
way of Indianapolis and Terre Haute, and from Cleveland to'
Chicago, by way of Cincinnati,, Indianapolis and Terre Haute,

.440

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

were built, but they were not completed prior to the appointment of a receiver of the Bankers' Company; and that the
question of the lien of the $3,000,000 mortgage on those
uncompleted lines was not involved.
I As to the question of the validity of the $3,000,000 mortgage
of the Rapid Company, the Circuit Court held that there was
nothing immoral or dishonest in the transaction, on the part of
that .company or its stockholders; that there was nothing in
the proof to show that those in control of the Bankers' Company were not acting in good faith towards the stockholders
of the Rapid Company, their own company, or the public, or
that there was any plan or purpose on their part, except to
promote and consummate the legitimate business scheme of
merging the two companies, and building up an extensive
'telegraph business, by extending and consolidating the existing
systems; that there was no reason to doubt that the promoters
would have carried out their enterprise honestly, and that
their expectations would have' been measurably realized, if the
Bankers' Company had not become financially crippled at an
early stage; that the proofs do not show that the parties to
the August agreements, either those who represented the one
company or the other, had any fraudulent design upon 'the
public to be carried out by 'means of the mortgage; that,
when the August agreements were made, the Bankers' Company had in its treasury, or available, about $1,000,000, and
was supposed by those .who represented the Rapid Company
to be financially able to carry out its undertaking; that the
case is destitute of evidence to justify the assumption' that
those who represented the Rapid Company supposed that the
agreement of the Bankers' Company was to be carried out at
the expense of third persons, much .less by defrauding third
persons; that the fact that the Bankers' Company used the
bonds secured by its $10,000,000 mortgage to obtain the means
for building the new line, was not inconsistent with the good
faith of the officers of that company; that, at all events, the
bondholders represented by the plaintiff were not shown to
have been implicated in any fraudulent scheme; that the
organic law of the corporations permitted them to do what

UNITED LINES TEL. CO. v. BOSTON TRUST CO.

441

Opinion of the Court.

was provided for by the August agreements, and there was no
ground upon which to assail the $3,000,000 mortgage as ultra
vires; that the Rapid Company did not assert any objection
to that mortgage; that those who were stockholders of the
Rapid Company and became its bondholders, did not allege,
and the Bankers' Company, after receiving the bonds and
exchanging them for stock, could not be heard to allege, want
of consideration, or a fraudulent consideration, or that the acts
of the Bankers' Company, in acquiring and transferring the
bonds, were without legal validity, while it retained the stock
which it received as the fruits of the transaction, nor could it
be permitted to assert that the August agreements were ultra
vires, while retaining the fruits thereof; that it was equally
clear that the bondholders of the $10,000,000 mortgage, who
became creditors of the Bankers' Company after all those
transactions took place, could not be heard to impeach the
consideration of the plaintiff's mortgage; and that the question as to .the rights of the parties to the property in controversy was merely whether it was covered by the lien of the
mortgage, or equitably belonged to the plaintiff, and whether
the rights of the plaintiff therein were paramount to those
acquired under the $10,000,000 mortgage.
The Circuit Court further held that there was no satisfactory
reason why the lien of the $3,000,000 mortgage should not
include the "reconstructed lines;" that that mortgage was
duly recorded before the $10,000,000 mortgage of the Bankers' Company was recorded, and no question, arose under the
registry act as to the priority of lien of. the respective mortgages; that if it should be conceded that the money of the
Bankers' Company exclusively was used in the improvements
and reconstruction of those lines, and the improved value of
the property represented nothing except what was put into it
by the Bankers' Company, there was nothing to distinguish
the case from the ordinary one where a mortgagor or his
vendee of the mortgaged property makes repairs and improveinents of a permanent character; that such improvements as
become a part of the realty always enure to the security of
the mortgage; but that the "strung wires" did not come

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

under the operation of that rule, as they did not lose their
character as personalty.
The Circuit Court further held that the line from Cleveland to Chicago was constructed to -connect Buffalo by a
northerly route with Chicago, pursuant to the agreement of
August 28, 1883, and was the same property described in and
conveyed by the $3,000,000 mortgage, as "intended to be
shortly constructed or required" for the Rapid Company;
that the circumstance that there was no formal delivery or
transfer &f that property to the Rapid Company by the
Bankers' Company was not material; that as soon as it was
acquired by the Bankers' Company it became in equity the
property of the Rapid Company; that it was competent for
the latter to mortgage the lines which were not in existence.
at the date of the mortgage, but which, by the agreement of
the Bankers' Company, were to be built or acquired thereafter,
and were, by the terms of the mortgage, to enure to the security of the bondholders; that such a mortgage, although ineffectual as a conveyance inprcesenti,took effect as an equitable
transfer, and attached to the after-acquired property, as soon
as the title of the mortgagor accrued; that this case was exceptional only because it presented a question of priority between
two mortgages of after-acquired property; that upon the principle that, as between equal equities, priority of time will.prevail,
the lien of the $3,000,000 mortgage was paramount to that of
the $10,000,000 mortgage subsequently created; that much
stress had been laid upon the circumstance that the line in
question was paid for in bonds of the $10,000,000 mortgage, or
with the proceeds of such bonds, but that such fact was of no
legal significance; and that those who bought the bonds of
the'$1Q,000,000 mortgage had no higher claim for consideration than the bondholders under the $3,000,000 mortgage, who
parted with their property upon the promise that this line
should stand as security for the payment of their bonds.
The Circuit Court further held, that the United Lines Company did not occupy the position of a bona f#de purchaser of
the property; that full notice of the equities and claims of the
plaintiff was given to it before it purchased the. property at

UNITED LINES TEL. CO. v. BOSTON TRUST CO.

443

Opinion of the Court.

the foreclosure sale; that it accuired the rights of the bondholders under the $10,000,000 mortgage, and nothing more;
that as to the suggestion that receivers' certificates were
created pursuant to orders of the courts, in suits brought in
state courts in New York and Ohio, in which receivers of the
property of the Bankers' Company were appointed, which
certificates were declared by the orders to be first liens on all
the property of that company, and as to the contention that
the lien of the $3,000,000 mortgage could not have precedence
of those certificates, it was to be said that, as the plaintiff was
not a party to those suits, the orders by which the certificates
were created Were nugatory as an adjudication upon the
equities of the plaintiff;, that no judgment in those suits
could bind the plaintiff by a declaration that the certificates
should outrank its equitable lien; that a purchaser of such
certificates would not acquire a lien prior to the $3,000,000
mortgage upon the property included in it when it was
recorded, or upon the accessorial improvements and additions;
that it was not clear tfiat a purchaser without notice and for
value would not obtain a paramount lien upon the western
lines, assuming that the certificates were authorized by a competent court having possession of the property by its receivers
at the time; that those questions were not properly before the
court, and could not be considered under the issues made by
the pleadings; that the defendants did not assert in their
answer that they were bona Xde purchasers of such certificates,
but the United Lines Company set up title under the foreclosure of the $10,000,000 mortgage, and Stokes founded his
claim upon the sale by the Ohio court, which sale had been set
aside; that it was no obstacle to the relief prayed by the bill
that the real estate sought to be subjected to the decree was
in another State; that it sufficed that the court had jurisd&.
tion of the persons of the defendants and could compel them
to observe its decree; and that there ought to be a decree for
the plaintiff, conformable to the foregoing conclusions, with a
reference to a master, if necessary, to ascertain what property.
was to be included in the'description of the "reconstructed
lines" in the decree.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

After the delivery of the opinion, the United Lines Company and Stokes moved for a reargament on certain questions; but the motion was denied, and an order was made
October 26, 1888, referring it to a special master to ascertain
what property was to be included in the description of the
property to be awarded to the plaintiff by the decree, and also
to settle the decree. The special master, after hearing" the
parties, made a report, on January 18, 1889; determining the
property to be so included and settling thd form of the decree,
and reporting to the court the evidence taken before him.
The plaintiff excepted to the report, as also did the defendants the United Lines Company and Stokes, and Farnsworth,
receiver. On a hearing of the exceptions, the court modified
the description reported by the special master and the form
of decree settled by him, confirmed his report subject to certain
specified amendments, and on April 4, 1889, entered the final
decree, before mentioned, in favor of the plaintiff, from which
the United Lines Company and Stokes have appealed.
It is contended for the appellants that (1) Under the agreements of August, 1883, no bonds of the
Rapid Company were to be delivered to the Bankers' Company; the bonds were intended for the stockholders of the
Rapid Company and for no one else;. the delivery made was
simply colorable; the persons receiving them, apparently for
the Bankers' Company, really received them for the purpose
of handing them over to Bullens, the trustee, that they might
be exchanged for the stock of the Rapid Company; and the
Bankers' Company never received one of those bonds.
(2) The Bankers' Company, as a matter of law, bad no
right to build the Western lines for the Rapid Company, or
any lines except for itself, and no right, in 'ny event, to build
lines for another company by using the proceeds of its own
bonds in constructing such lines, leaving the holders of its
bonds without any security.
(3) If the Bankers' Company in fact tried to build the
Western lines for the Rapid Company, with money raised by
the sale of the bonds of the Bankers' Company, and intended
to turn such lines over to the Rapid Company, leaving its own

UNITED LINES TEL. CO. *v. BOSTON TRUST 00.

445"

Opinion of the Court.

bondholders without any security, the transaction wlis fraudulent, and the Rapid Company was a party to thq fraud.
(4) The evidence showed that the Rapid Company knew
that the Bankers' Company had no money of its own with
which to build the Western lines, and that the money for such'
construction was being raised by the sale of the Bankers'
Company's bonds, and also knew that the purchasers of those
bonds had been informed by the Bankers' Company that the
bonds had been secured by a deed of trust to the Farmers'.
Loan and Trust Company on, all the lines which the Bankers'
Company then had, and on all which it might thereafter build;
and the Rapid Company, so knowing, and having kept secret its
agreements of August, 18S3, was estopped from claiming any
part of said lines as its property or as having been built for it.
(5) The Western lines, as a matter of fact, never' were completed by the contractors for the Bankers' Company, and
never were in fact delivered to that company before the appointment of the receivers in the foreclosure suit against it;
so that if was never in a position* to deliver the lines to any
other company, even if the contract for such delivery had
been honest and valid.
(6) The lines were never delivered by the Bankers' Company and' were never received by the Rapid Company;'ino
settlement was had between the companies; the Bai kers'
Company was never in a position to deliver the lines, never
having had possession of them ; the lines were put in possession of the receivers appointed in suits commenced by the contractors; afterwards they came into the possession of the receivers appointed in the foreclosure suit; and those receigers
were authorized to issue $130,000 in certificates, and secure
the same by a:deed of trust to the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company.
(7)The Bankers' Company having failed to pay the amount
due to contractQrs for construction and material, and receivers'
certificates having been issued, the property came into the pos"session of.the receivers of the Bankers' Company, and was never
in the possession of the Rapid Company or of its receiver.
(8) Afterwards, it being impossible to finish' the lines and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

to keep them in repair from the earnings, the deed of trust
made to secure the receivers' certificates was foreclosed; the
receiver of the Rapid Company, duly appointed by the Circuit
Courts of the United States in Connecticut, New York and
Ohio, became a party to said action; and in that action a decree was entered that the property be sold for the payment of
the receivers' certificates.
(9) The receiver of the Rapid Company, having been a
party in the foreclosure suit in Ohio, was bound by the decision in that case; the ownership of the lines now in dispute,
from Cleveland to Chicago, was settled in that guit by a court
of competent jurisdiction, in a case where all the necessary
parties were either plaintiffs or defendants, and such decision
was final and binding upon all.
(10) The court below was misled, and supposed that the
suit in Ohio had been decided upon the merits against the appellants in this case, or had been dismissed.
(11) The decree herein should be reversed and the property
restored.
But we are of opinion that the line from Cleveland to Chicago became the property of the Rapid Company and was
subject to the mortgage made-by that company. That result
was contemplated in the agreement of August 28, 1883, and
in the mortgage of Septerhber 15, 1883. The $3,000,000 of
bonds issued under that mortgage were delivered to the treasurer of the Bankers' Company on March 3, 1884. It was deliberately agreed between the two companies that the new lines
in the West were to be built, were to belong to the Rapid
Company, and were to be part of the security for the Rapid
Company's bonds. The force of that agreement was not impaired by the fact that the Bankers' Company had made the
further agreement of August 29, 1883, to exchange those bonds
for stock, so far as the stockholders of the Rapid Company
might elect to make such an exchange. Those who took the
bonds from the Bankers' Company under the circumstances
were authorized to expect that the company would perform
its agreement, which was to give added security for the bonds,
and'they had a right to rely on such performance.

UIITED LINES TEL. CO. v. BOSTON TRUST CO.

447

Opinion of the Court.

The line from Cleveland to Chicago was completed in compliance with the agreement, and was intended to be pro tknto
a performance thereof. No further delivery of that line was
practicable or requisite, than that which was made by connecting it with the system of the Rapid Company and using it'
as a part of that system. The same officers represented both
companies, and both companies had the same general manager.
His duty to his two principals, namely, the trust on the one
side to deliver and on the other to receive the property, was
sufficient to effectuate the necessary delivery from the Bankers'
Company to the Rapid Company.
There is no ground for assailing the good faith of the
agreement of August 28, 1883. It was entered into with
perfect good faith on the part of the Rapid Company, and
with every appearance of good faith on the part of the Bankers' Company; it violated no principle of law and no rule of
good morals; and if it had been fully carried out., it is probable that both parties would have realized from it the benefits
which they anticipated.
Nor is ther3 any force in the objection that the agreement
was ultra .vires,on the part of the Bankers' Company. The
statutes of New York authorized and justified it. The general
power of a corporation to hold property in States other than
the one which incorporated it, (in the absence of statutory
prohibition iii such States,) is firmly established. The Bankers' Company received the benefit of the August agreement,
through which alone it acquired control of the Rapid Company, it enjoyed that control, took all the receipts of the
Rapid Company's business, profited by the good will which
that company bad acquired, and thus obtained a benefit from
the August agreement, which is beyond its power to restore;
and the bondholders of the Bankers' Company, who are simply
its creditors, and became such after the August agreement
was made; are bound by the agreement made by it within the
scope of its corporate powers.
It seems quite clear that the equities of the plaintiff and of
the bondholders of the Rapid Company are superior to those
of the bondholders of the Bankers' Company. The after-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

acquired property of the Rapid Company, described in its
mortgage, became subject to such mortgage as fast as it was

acquired.. Dunham v. Railway Co., 1 Wall. 254;' Galveston
v. Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 459.
The equities of the two appellants are no greater than those
of the bondholders of the- Bankers' Company. It is well
ettled that a sale .of real estate under judicial proceedings
concludes no one who is not -a party to those proceedings.
Neither the Rapid Company nor the plaintiff was a party to
the suit for the foreclosure of the mortgage of the Bankers'
Company. Therefore, whatever title either of them .hadto
the property which was altempted to be sold in Jhat foreclosure suit, remained unaffected by the suit. The same fact
is true of the attempted sale in the Ohio proceeding, set up in
the answer. Neither -the Rapid Company nor the plaintiff
was a party to that proceeding, and the attempted sale under
it did not bar or impair their rights. Moreover, it is quite
clear on the proofs that both of the appellants had notice of
the title of the Rapid Company and the plaintiff. It is, therefore, unimportant to give special consideration to the Ohio
proceeding, or to any claim based by Stokes upon it; and the
fact is immaterial whether the sale under that proceeding was
set aside, or whether the order setting it aside was subsequently reversed. There was nothing in the Ohio proceeding
which could divest or impair the lien of the Rapid Company's
mortgage, or the rights of the plaintiff as *trustee for the
Rapid Company's bondholders.
For these reasons, we.are of opinion that the Circuit Court
did not err in deciding that the Western lines came under the
mortgage of the Rapid Company, and ought to pass under
the foreclosure of that mortgage.
We have considered all the points made by the ,appellants,
and are of opinion that there is nothing substantial in them,
and we have remarked upon them as fully as seems to be
necessary.
MR. JusTIcE FiEuL and

.Decreeafirmed.

Mnr. JusTIcE BREWF dissented.

