HAYES v. PRATT.
Syllabus.

HAYES v. PRATT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 19. Argued March 25,1892. -Decided March 6,1893.

A citizen of Pennsylvania, born in New Jersey, deviseOl and bequeathed the
residue of his estate, real and personal, consisting mostly of property
in Pennsylvania and in Michigan, with some real estate in New Jersey,
to his executors, in trust to sell and invest at their discretion, "1and to
appropriate and use the principal or income thereof for the purpose of
founding and supporting, or uniting in the support of any institution
that may be then founded, to furnish a retreat and home for disabled or
aged and infirm and deserving American mechanics;" and appointed as
his executors H, a citizen of New Jersey, and W, a citizen of Pennsylvania,
"and in the event of the death of either or both of them, first, P, and
next, N, to supply vacancy." W took out letters testamentary in Pennsylvania, and there administered the property in Pennsylvania and in
Michigan, and, with the approval of a Pennsylvania court, appropriated
it to found a home for such mechanics, incorporated by the legislature
of Pennsylvania to carry out the testator's charitable intention. H took
out letters testamentary in New Jersey, and took care of the real estate
there, and died having done nothing beyond obtaining the opinion of
counsel that the executors would be authorized, in their discretion, to
provide a bed for such mechanics in a hospital, incorporated in New
Jersey, for "the care, nurture and maintenance of sick, infirm, aged and
indigent persons, and of orphan and destitute children," and whose by-laws
provided that patients in a condition to be discharged, or whose disease
was incurable, should not remain in the hospital, and that those able to
pay for their maintenance should do so. After the deaths of H and W
a son of H took out letters of administration with the will annexed of
the unadmimstered goods, chattels and effects of the original testator
in New Jersey" and, after having assured P that he would not dispose
of the real estate in New Jersey without giving hun an opportunity to
show that the Pennsylvania corporation was entitled to it, sold it, and,
without any order of court, and without P's knowledge or consent, paid
the proceeds to the New Jersey corporation, taking a bond of indemnity.
Held, that P, on taking out letters testamentary in Pennsylvania, was
entitled, as executor, and upon filing a copy of those letters, to maintain
a bill in equity against the New Jersey administrator-n the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of New Jersey t6%recover those
proceeds, with interest, and costs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

Tms" was a bill in equity, filed August 11, 1884, in the
Court of Chancery of the State of New Jersey, by Dundas T.
Pratt, a citizen of Pennsylvania, describing himself as "succeeding executor of the last will and testament of George
Hayes, late of the city and county of Philadelphia, in the
State of Pennsylvania, deceased," and by the Hayes Mechanics' Home, a corporation organized under the laws of
Pennsylvania, and established at Philadelphia, against Henry
Hayes, a citizen of New Jersey, administrator of George
Hayes, for an account of property of the deceased received by
him, amounting to more than $5000, and for payment thereof
to either of the plaintiffs, as the court might direct.
The case was duly removed, upon the defendant's petition,
into the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
New Jersey, and was there, after an answer and a general
replication had been filed, heard upon pleadings and proofs,
by which it appeared to be as follows
George Hayes was a jeweller, was born in Newark in the
State of New Jersey in- 1815, and there lived until 1847, when
he removed to Philadelphia, and became interested in and
identified with the mechanics of that city, and resided and
did business there until June 1, 1857, when he died, leaving a
dwelling house and personal estate in Philadelphia, real estate
in Michigan, and an interest in real estate in Newark, (on
which he had lived and carried on his business before his removal to Philadelphia,) and a will, dated June 16, 1855, duly
executed and published according to the laws of Pennsylvania
and of 'New Jersey, by which, after,payment of debts and
legacies, he provided as follows:
"Item. As to the rest, residue and remainder of my estate,
both real and personal, and of every nature and kind whatsoever, I give, devise and -bequeath the same to my executors
hereinafter named, their heirs, executors and administrators
forever, in trust to realize the same in the manner deemed by
them the most advisable, and keep the same invested in such
manner as they in their discretion may deem most advantageous, and to appropriate and use the income or principal
thereof for the purpoge of founding and supporting, or uniting

HAYES v. PRATT:
Statement of the Case.

in the support of any institution that may be then founded, to
furnish a retreat and home for disabled or aged and infirm
and deserving American mechanics.
"Item. To better enable my said executors to carry out
and perfect my intentions as expressed in the last foregoing
item, I authorize and empower them to sell all or any of my
real estate, either at public or private sale, either for cash or
part cash, and reserving ground rent or taking mortgage for
the purchase money, as the case may be, without any liability
of the purchaser or purchasers thereof as to the application or
misapplication of the purchase or consideration moneys.
"Lastly I nominate, constitute and appoint my brother,
Jabez W Haves, and my friend, Dr. Lewis E. Wells, (and in
the event of the death of either or both of them, then I appoint, first, Dundas Pratt, and next,, my 'brother in law,
Horace H. Nichols, to supply vacancy,) to be the executors of
this my will."
Dundas Pratt, named in the will, was Dundas T. Pratt, one
of the original plaintiffs and present .appellees. It does not
appear that Nichols ever did anything in regard to this
trust.
Lewis E. Wells resided in Philadelphia, and proved the
will and was appointed and qualified as executor thereof in
the orphans' court of Philadelphia on June 20, 1857, and,
with the knowledge of Jabez W Hayes, took care of the
property in Pennsylvania and in Michigan.
Jabez W Haves resided in Newark, and proved the will
and was, appointed and qualified as executor thereof in the
orphans' court of Essex county in New Jersey on August
4, 185'T, and, with the knowledge of Wells, took care of the
property in New Jersev
On June 21, 1S58, Wells and Pratt, together with Ferdinand
J. Dreer, the former partner of the testator, and other 'citizens
of Pennsylvania, were duly incorporated, under the general
laws of Pennsylvania, as the Hayes Mechanics' Home, with
the object of "the founding and providing of a retreat gnd
home for disabled, aged or infirm and deserving American
mechanics." Dreer was president and Pratt secretary of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

corporation from the beginning, and Wells was treasurer of
the corporation 'from its organization until 1873, when he
was removed and another treasurer chosen, and Pratt afterwards became treasurer.
On March 16, 1861, the lgislature of Pennsylvania, at the
instance of Wells as acting executor, passed an act, reciting
that the Hayes Mechanics' Home had been incorporated as
,aforesaid "for the purpose of founding a home for disabled,
aged or infirm and deserving American mechanics, and with
the intention of carrying into effect the charitable objects provided for by the last will and testament of George Hayes,
deceased, late of the city of Philadelphia;" ratifying and
confirming its charter; and empowering it to take and hold
the property devised and bequeathed by George Hayes as
aforesaid. Penn. Laws of 1861, c. 117, p. 132.
Wells paid all the testator's debts and legacies, and, in 1864,
settled in the orphans' court of Philadelphia the account of
his administration of the property in Pennsylvania, and paid
to the Hayes Mechanics' Home the balance of the personal
estate in his hands, amounting to $13,789, and also, in obedience to an order of that court, (upon the petition of the corporation, stating that settlement and payment, the provision
of the will, the charter of the corporation, and the act of the
legislature,) conveyed to that corporation the land in Pennsylvania, valued by an examiner of that court at $12,000, and
the land in Michigan, valued at $17,000. The property so
received and the proceeds of sales thereof were afterwards
invested so that, besides paying $10,000 in 1859 for a tract
of sixteen acres of land as a site for a building, they amounted
in May, 1884, (including $11,500 received froln other persons,)
to $92,000. The building was actually begun a few months
after the filing of this bill.
Wells died in 1876, never having done anything about the
real estate in New Jersey, although he knew of its existence.
There was in the city of Newark an institution called the
Hospital of St. Barnabas, incorporated by an act of the legislature of 'New Jersey of February 13, 1867, c. 32, which provided that the object of the corporation should be "the care,

HAYES v. PRATT.
Statement of the Case.

nurture and maintenance of sick, infirm, aged and indigent
persons, and of orphan, half orphan and destitute children,
the providing for their temporal and spiritual welfare, and the
procuring or erecting a suitable building or buildings," and
that its members and trustees should be members of the
Protestant Episcopal Church, and the moral and religious
instruction of the inmates should be in conformity with the
doctrine, discipline and worship of that church. New Jersey
Acts of 1867, p. 51. Its by-laws and rules provided that
patients in a condition to be discharged, or whose disease was
incurable, should not remain in the hospital, and that all persons able to pay for their maintenance should do so.
Jabez W Hayes often told his sons that he intended to
devote the principal and income of the testator's property in
Newark to the support of this hospital, and in 1870, and
again in 1876, obtained the opinion of counsel that, under the
provisions of the will of George Hayes, the executors would
be authorized in their discretion to provide a permanent bed
in this hospital for disabled or aged and infirm and deserving
American mechanics. But he took no other steps in that
direction, and died in January, 1882, without having rendered
any account of his administration.
On December 12, 1882, the orphans' court of the county of
Essex and State of New Jersey passed an order, reciting the
probate of the will of George Hayes in that court, and that
"Jabez W Hayes, after having taken upon himself the execution of said will in this State, has departed this life, that .due
notice has been given of this application to Dundas Pratt, the
only other surviving executor named in said will, and to all
other parties in interest," and appointing "Henry Hayes
administrator of all and singular the goods, chattels and
credits of the said George Hayes, deceased, in the State of
New Jersey, left unadmmistered by Jabez W Hays, deceased,
who is duly authorized to administer the same agreeably to
said will."
Before this appointment, and after Pratt had received
notice of the application therefor, a correspondence took place
between him and Henry Hayes, in which Pratt, while acquiVOL. cxLvii--36

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

escing in the appointment, insistAd that the testator's interest
in the land in New Jersey (the existence of which had become
known to him only since the death of Jabez W Hayes,)
should go to the Hayes Mechanis' Home, and Henry Hayes
expressed a wish that it should be applied, as his father had
hoped, to a bed for mechanics in the hospital at Newark. On
June 25, 1883, Henry Hayes, in answer to a letter from Pratt
about the sale of this interest of the testator, wrote to him
that he would not, of course, make any disposition of the
money but a legal one, and that he would not dispose of it in
any way without giving Pratt an opportunity to show that
the Hayes Mechanics' Home was the only insfitution entitled
to it.
Henry Hayes soon afterwards sold this property, and
received money from the sale and from previous income
thereof, and in October, 1884, made an offer to the Hospital
of St. Barnabas, which that corporation accepted, to appropriate to its use the greater part of this money 5 and on January
8, 1884, settled his account in said orphans' court, showing a
balance in his hands of $5153.27, and declined to pay it to
Pratt, as executor of George Hayes, or as treasurer of the
Hayes Mechanics' Home, and in March, 1881, without any
order of court, and without Pratt's knowledge or consent,
paid this balance to the Hospital of St. Barnabas, informing
it of Pratt's claim, and taking from it a bond of indemnity,
secured by a mortgage on real-estate; and the board of trustees of, that corporation, on March 17, 1884, "resolved, that
the Hospital of St. Barnabas consents to receive said fund,
and it hereby agrees to use such fund solely for the purpose
of furnishing a retreat and home for disabled or aged and
infirm and deserving American mechanics, in accordance with
the will of the late George Hayes," and, on July 1, 1885,
having meanwhile completed a new hospital building, "resolved, that a suitable part of the building be fitted up with
two beds to be devoted especially to the purposes mentioned
by the testator, and that a tablet be placed upon the walls as
an indication of these uses and a memorial of the donor of the
fund."

HAYES v. PRATT.
Argument for Appellant.

On May 10, 1884, in the orphans? court of Philadelphia, (as
appeared by an exemplified copy of the record of the appointment, filed with the bill in this case,) "Jabez W Haves and
Lewis E. Wells, two of the executors named in said will, being
dead, letters testamentary were duly granted unto Dundas T.
Pratt, surviving executor ;" and Pratt was duly qualified "as the
succeeding executor of the foregoing last will and testament of
George Hayes, deceased." At that time, there was no estate
of the testator, which had notobeen duly administered, except
so far as the property in New Jersey could be so considered,
and Pratt testified that his only object in being appointed was
to sue for and recover that property, that he supposed that
the Hayes Mechanices' Home could itself pursue that fund, but
was advised that he, as executor, should claim it.
The Oircuit Court "ordered, adjudged and decreed that
the respondent, Henry Hayes, administrator of the estate of
George Hayes, in the State of New Jersev, pay to the complainant, Dundas T. Pratt, treasurer of the Hayes Mechanics'
Home, a corporation of the State of Pennsylvania, and for
and in behalf of said corporation, the sum of $5153.27, with
interest from January 10, 1884, being the balance in his hands,
as administrator aforesaid, on settlement of his account in the
orphans' court of Essex county, New Jersey," with costs.
XrA A. Q. Keasbey for appellant.
I. The Hayes Mechanics' Home had no legal or equitable
claim upon the defendant in this suit. He had assumed no
trust relation with that corporation. Therefore that home
had no standing in New Jersey to demand by suit anything
from the defendant, as administrator of the estate of George
Hayes in New Jersey, and the decree enforcing such demand
directly in its favor should be reversed.
II. Dundas T. Pratt, in his capacity of succeeding executor
in Pennsylvania, had no right to make any such claim.
The granting of letters testamentary to him twenty years
after the estate had been. settled and all the functions of
the executor ended in Pennsylvania, was a work of super-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellant.

erogation. There was nothing in Pennsylvania for him
to administer 'and could not be, for by the records of the
orphans' court, it appears that the whole of the Pennsylvania
property was administered and applied according to the will
of the Pennsylvania executor in the discharge of his trust. In
like manner all the New Jersey property had before his appointment been applied by the New Jc-sey executor in discharge of
the same trust, so far as it was imposed upon him. The Pennsylvania executor took no title to the New Jersey real estate
and acquired no right as to the disposition of it.
III. But even if the Pennsylvania executor was authorized
to obtain the New Jersey fund by transmission from this jurisdiction, or to dispose of it at his own discretion, he had no
power to bring suit in the New Jersey jurisdiction against the
representatives of the estate there, but his only remedy was to
apply to the orphans' court in New Jersey for such direction
as to such transmission as that court at its discretion under the
circumstances of the case might see fit to make. Stacey v
Thrash4er, 6 How 44, .Hoonan v. B adley, 9 Wall. 394:,
fohnson v Powers, 139 U S. 156.
This foreign executor cannot demand as a right by a suit in
the Court of Chancery, that the New Jersey executor shall
account to him for the proceeds of the property in New
Jersey devised to him by the will, or for the manner in which
he has in his discretion disposed of that property
IV But even if the Pennsylvania executor had a right to
sue the New Jersey administrator, or if he had applied to the
probate court of New Jersey for an order directing its
administrator to transmit the residue in his hands to Pennsylvania for administration there, he could mot have recovered
in a suit, nor would the orphans' court have been bound to
make any order for such transmission. There is no obligation
to make such transmission. It is only a matter of comity,
and depends wholly upon the circumstances of the case, and
in this case there are no circumstances which call for the
exercise of such comity
There is nothing left for the new executor, appointed in
Pennsylvania, to do with respect to the subject matter of

HAYES v. PRATT.
Argument for Appellant.

George Hayes' estate. The executor appointed in Pennsylvania is functus officzo, and all his duties were closed twenty
years ago. No considerations of comity and no principles of
equity require that the acts done in New Jersey by the executor appointed there in the exercise of his discretion should be
undone at the instance of a new executor in Pennsylvania, in
order that he may have the privilege of exercising the discretion over again and applying the fund to a different purpose.
-Dent's Appea;, 22 Penn. St. 514, Motidand v *Wi/eman, 3
Penn. 185, S. C. 23 Am. Dec. 71, In re Hughes, 95 N. Y 55,
Hunter v. Bryson, 5 G. & J 483, S. C. 25 Am. Dec. 313,
Carmchaelv. Bay, 5 Iredell, (Eq.) 365, Harvey v Richards,
1 Mason, 381, 5Xao1ey v. Coxe, 18 Hoky 100; XeLean v
.AfeeTk, 18 How 16, Stacey v. Thrasher, 6 How 44, Tourton.
v. Flower, 3 P Wins. 369, Borden v Borden, 5 Mass. 67,
S. C. 4 Am. Dec. 32; Pond v .faepeace, 2 Met. 114, Chapman v Fi, 6 Hill, 554:, TVaughkn v Yorthrup, 15 Pet. 1,
Banta v. -oore, 15 N. J Eq. (2 MeCarter,) 97, INormand
v Grognard,17 N. 5. Eq. (2 Green,) 425, ..Mahnken's Case, 36
N. J. Eq. (9 Stewart,) 518.
It follows that the Hayes Mechanics' Home, which has no
interest in the estate itself, except that part of it which the
Philadelphia executor has already chosen to give it, has no
standing whatever in the Court of Chancery of New Jersey
to recover another part of the estate which has already been
bestowed updn another charitable corporation, nor has the
Pennsylvania executor such an interest in the property in this
State as to enable him to maintain such an action.
V The property in dispute in this case is the proceeds of
the sale of real estate. The disposition of real estate is governed by the law of the place where it is situated. This law
would govern the descent of land undisposed of by will, and
by this law the question of the due execution of a will would
be decided.
It is the general rule that the disposition of real estate is
governed by the law of the place where it is situated, and
when a testator appoints an executor in that place, and gives
him power to sell real estate, the presumption is that he in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

tends him to have power over his real estate there, and that
he may sell it according to the laws of the place where it is,
and may also dispose of the proceeds as well as of the land
itself, under the directions of the will.
Even with respect to personal property there is a tendency
to limit the rule that it is governed by the law of the domicil.
The distribution of personal property in cases of intestacy is
according to the law of the domicil, but yet so far as it concerns creditors it depends on the law of the country where it is
situated. .AXilne v. -Moreton, 6 Binney, 353, S. C. 6 Am. Dec.
466, Farmers'&.Mehans2s'Bankv Zoftus, 133 Penn. St. 97.
VI. It is the general result of the cases that the disposition
of the residue of an estate in the hands of an ancillary executor or administrator is wholly a matter of discretion, and
that there is no rule or principle which requires that the funds
which were m the hands of this administrator with the will
annexed, should have been sent into a foreign jurisdiction as
against any proper claims here, whether of creditors, legatees
named in the will, or objects of the testator's bounty and
charity, selected by his executor here in pursuance of the
power of the will, and all the cases show that the foreign
executor or administrator has no right to meddle with the
estate here or sue for it, unless such power is given, on proper
application to the courts of this jurisdiction.
In this case such discretion ought not to be exercised in
favor of sending the proceeds of real estate in New Jersey out
of the State for the purpose of applying it to purposes not
contemplated by the New Jersey executor who held the title
to the property
-Mr John R. Emery for appellees.
M . JUsTIcE 0G-Ay, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
George Hayes, by his will, devised and bequeathed the
residue of his estate, real and personal, to his executors, in
trust to sell and invest at their discretion, "and to appropriate
and use the principal or income thereof, for the purpose of

HAYES v. PRATT.
Opinion of the Court.

founding and supporting, or uniting in the support of any
institution that may be then founded, to furnish a retreat
and home for disabled or aged and infirm and deserving
American mechanics."
The primary, if not the only, intention of the testator evidently was that his bounty should go to a single institution,
"a retreat and home for disabled or aged and infirm and deserving American mechanics," either by founding, as well as
supporting, a new institution, or by aiding in the support of
one founded by others. The validity of the charitable trust
is undoubted, notwithstanding that the trustees might appropriate the fund to an institution established after the testator's
death. Jones v Habersham, 107 U. S. 174, 191, Cu'ran's
Appeal, 4 Pennypacker, 331, Taylor v Bryn .Mawr College,
7 Stewart, (34 N. J. Eq.) 101.
The execution of this trust was committed by the. testator
to the executors named in the will, first, to Jabez W Hayes
and Lewis E. Wells, and next, in the event of the death of
either or both of these, to Dundas Pratt and Horace H.
Nichols, successively So long as any one of the four is living, and has not declined the office of executor, or been shown
to be unsuitable, no other person can execute the trust. And
it is doubtful, to say the least, whether the trust is not such
a personal confidence reposed by the testator in the persons
named, that it would in no event pass to an administrator
with the will annexed, but must, if all those named in the
will should die before full performance of the trust, be executed by a trustee specially appointed for the purpose. Ingle
v ones, 9 Wall. 486, 497, 498.
Of the two executors first named, Jabez W Hayes being
a citizen of New Jersey, and Lewis F. Wells a citizen of Pennsylvania, each proved the will and took out letters testamentary
in his own State, and assumed the care and management of
the property in that State, and Wells also took control of the
property in Michigan. But such an arrangement, however
convenient, cannot affect the duty of either or both of the
executors, or of the court, to see that the trust is carried out
according to the testator's intention.

OCTOBER TER-M, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The testator was born and for many years lived in New
Jersey, but his domicil at the time of his death and for ten
years before was in Pennsylvania. A small part only of his
property was in New Jersey, and the greater part was in
Pennsylvania and Michigan. The Hayes Mechanics' Home
was incorporated within thirteen months after his death by
his partner, by Wells, his Pennsylvania executor, by Pratt,
now his executor, and by other citizens of Pennsylvania, under
the laws of that State, for the purpose of founding and supporting "a retreat and home for disabled, aged or infirm and
deserving American mechanics," as contemplated in his will.
Wells settled his account as executor in the proper court of
Pennsylvama, and paid over the balance of personal property
in his hands to the Hayes Mechanics' Home, and also, by
order of that court, conveyed to that corporation the lands
in Pennsylvania and in Michigan, and the validity of the
payment and conveyance has not been impugned. In short,
the whole of the residue of the testator's property, real and
personal, except the comparatively small amount now in controversy, has been appropriated, with the approval of the
legislature and of the courts of his domicil, in a manner to
carry out his charitable intent in accordance with the letter
and spirit of his will.
Jabez W Hayes, the executor appointed in New Jersey,
died in January, 1882, having done nothing towards carrying
out the charitable intent of the testator, beyond obtaining
the advice of counsel that the executors (not that he alone)
might lawfully appropriate the property in New Jersey to the
support of the Hospital of St. Barnabas in Newark.
After his death, Henry Hayes was appointed by the orphans' court in New Jersey to be administrator of the unadministered "goods, chattels and credits" of George Hayes in
New Jersey As already indicated, it is difficult to see how
this appointment could- give him any title in or power over
the real estate devised to the executors in trust. But if it can
be treated as vesting in him the title to the real estate in New
Jersey, it.certainly did not authorize him to undertake the
performance of the charitable trust created by the will, so

HAYES v. PRATT.
Opinion of the Court.

long as Pratt, one of the alternative executors and trustees
therein named, was still alive, had never declined the trust,
and had not even known, until recently, of the existence of
any estate of the testator not already disposed of according to
his will.
Moreover, to apply the fund, received by the defendant
from the sale of the real estate in New Jersey, to the maintenance of a free bed in the Hospital of St. Barnabas under the
charter and rules of that institution, would be much less in
accord with the intention of the testator, as expressed in his
will, than to add this fund to his other property already devoted to the foundation and support of the Hayes Mechanics'
Home.
Both the original executors being dead, and Pratt, the successor next named in the will, having been appointed sole
executor in their stead, he is the only person authorized to
execute the charitable trust of the testator, so far as anything
remains to be done with regard to it.
It was objected that Pratt, as executor appointed m Pennsylvania, could not sue in New Jersey without taking out
letters testamentary in that State. But this objection is answered by the statute of New Jersey of 1879, c. 16, which
enacts that "any executor or administrator, by virtue of letters
obtained in another State, may prosecute any action in any
court of this State, without first taking out letters in this
State provided such executor or administrator shall, upon
commencing suit, file in the office of the clerk of the court in
which such suit shall be brought an exemplified copy of the
record of his or their appointment," which has been done in
this case. New Jersey Acts of 1879, p. 28, Lawrence v Z-el
eom, 143 U. S. -215. -,
It was further objected that since the orphans' court tBad
been vested by the statute of New Jersey of 1872, c. 340,
with the power, upon allowing the accounts of executors, or
of administrators with the will annexed, to order distribution
of the residue in accordance with the will, application should
have been made to that court. New Jersey Acts of 1872, p.
47, But the statutes of the State conferring jurisdiction upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opmion of the Court.

the orphans' court do not even affect the jurisdiction of the
Court of Chancery of New Jersey over the settlement of estates. Frey v Demarest, 1 0. E. Green, (16 N. J. Eq.) 236,
Coddington v Bisp an, 9 Stewart, (36 N. J. Eq.) 224, 514,
Houston v. Levy, 17 Stew (44 N. J Eq.) 6. Certainly, no
such statutes can defeat or impair the general equity jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States to.administer,
as between citizens of different States, the assets of a deceased
person within its jurisdiction. Green v. Cre/ghton, 23 How
7
143
90, Payne *v.Hooke, 7 Wall 425, Lawrence v. .ATelon,
U. S. 215.
The defendant, as administrator with the will annexed of
George Hayes, having received money from the income and
sale of his real estate, and settled his account therefor in
the court which appointed him, and having, without any
order of court, and without right, and with notice of Pratt's
claim, paid the money Jo the Hospital of St. Barnabas, taking
from that corporation a bond of indemnity, was rightly held
liable to account for it, with interest from the date when
he so settled his account after having determined so to
pay it.
There being no one in New Jersey having any right to or
claim upon this fund, and no special reason being shown for
administering it in :New Jersey, it should, upon familiar
principles, be transmitted to the executor appointed at the
Vilk'ns v. Ellett, 9
testator's domicil for distribution.
Wall. 740, -742, Earvey v. R'zchards, 1 Mason, 381, 412,
413, _Yormand v. Grognard, 2 C. E. Green (17 N. J Eq.)
425, 428.
Pratt, being the executor appointed in the State of the testator's :domicil, and the trustee charged with the administration of the charitable trust, is the only person entitled to
maintaan this suit. The joinder of the Hayes Mechanics'
Home as a plaintiff was unnecessary, and perhaps improper,
but not having been objected to, by demurrer or otherwise, in
the court below,. it affords no ground for refusing relief. The
decree of the Circuit Court is irregular in that it directs
payment to be made to Pratt as treasurer of the Hayes

