WASHINGTON & GEORGETOWN RID v.. HARMON.

571

Statement of the Case.

Mechanics' Home, instead of to him as executor, and is
therefore to be amended in that particular, and,

,So amended, afJlnmed.
Mmh. JusTIcE SHIRAs,

not having beet a member of the court

when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

WASHINGTON AND GEORGETOWN RAILROAD
COMPANY v. HARMON'S ADMINISTRATO R.
ERROR TO THE SUPFME COURT OF THE DISTRICT. OF COLUMBIA.
No. 116. Argued January 18, 19,1893. -Decided

March 6, 1893.

In an action against a common carrier to recover damages for personal
injuries, if the facts relating to contributory negligence are disputed,
that question should be submitted to the jury; and, if the jury find for
the plaintiff, the court is not required, in the exercise of judicial discretion, to set the verdict aside.
A railway company being bound to deliver a passenger, its failure to stop
long enough to enable him to alight with safety is a neglect of duty
which involves liability for injuries resulting therefrom.
When the evidence justifies a finding that future damages will result from
an accident to a passenger caused by the negligence of a common carrier,
the jury may estimate and include such damages in their verdiqt.
In the District of Columbia a judgment in an action of tort does not bear
Interest.
In this case the only error being in an allowance of interest, the c?urt
orders the judgment to be affirmed if the interest be remitted, otherwise
to be reversed for that error.

Tis -was an action brought by John H. Harmon to recover
damages for a personal injury to him through the negligence
of the railroad company The Supreme Court of the District
in special term rendered judgment on the verdict of the jury,
on December 1, 1887, for $6500, and this judgment was
affirmed -by the court in general term on June 12, 1889, and
judgment rendered against the railroad company and its

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

surety on appeal for the amount of the judgment of the court
in special term, with interest thereon from December 1, 1887,
when it was entered below, until paid, with costs. To review
this judgment Ihis writ of error was brought. The case is
reported in 18 Dist. Col. 255.
The evidence is comprehensively given by James, J., delivering the opinion, as follows
"The plaintiff testified, in his own behalf, that on the evening of the 28th of April, 1882, at about nine o'clock, he took
passage in one of the defendant's cars on Pennsylvania Avenue
to go to his home on 19th street, that he took his seat about
two-thirds of the distance from the rear platform, that at or
near 19th street he signalled to the conductor to let him off,
that the conductor was then inside the car -figuring up his
accounts under the light, that, upon receiving the signal, the
conductor rang the bell and the car began to slow up, and, as
he supposed, was about stopping, that there were not many
passengers inside, but the platform was crowded, that he
made his way through the crowd on the platform and down
on to the step which was occupied by a man and a boy, who
held on to the railings on each end of the steps, that the car
was, at that time, almost at a standstill, that he could neither
swing off nor get back, that just as he had gotten on the
step the bell was rung and the car started, and he was thereby
thrown off on to the pavement and injured. Ile further
stated that the conductor did not go out to the platform to
assist him to get off. On cross-examination he said that, at
the time of his attempting to get off, there were only six or
eight passengers inside of the car, while the platform was so
crowded that the man and boy referred to had to stand upon
the step.
"On the part of the defendant the conductor testified that
the plaintiff was in the habit of riding on defendant's cars and
of getting off while the car was in motion, that when the
plaintiff signalled on the night in question he, the conductor,
rang the bell and the car began to slow, that he was then
standing on the rear platform, that he and a small boy were
the only persons then on the platform, that the plaintiff

WASMINGTO

& GEORGETOWNT R'D v. HARMON. 573
Statement of the Case.

'without waiting for the car to stop, after so signalling the
conductor, immediately went out on the rear platform and
stepped down upon the step, at the same time holding on to
the iron railing on the car, and while the car was still in
motion and moving at a slow rate of speed, nearly at a standstill, the plaintiff stepped off, and after he had let go of the
car he, the conductor, pulled the bell to go on again, and as
the plaintiff turned he fell,
that he did not ring the
bell for the car to start until after the plaintiff had stepped on
the street and let go of the car. "
Upon the trial, the court gave the following instructions
requested on behalf of the plaintiff
"If the jury believe from the evidence that the conductor,
at the request of the plaintiff, rang the bell to stop the car for
him to get off, and that the car thereupon slowed, and that
while plaintiff was waiting for the car to stop, and before it
had fully stopped, the car started suddenly forward through
the negligent act of the conductor or driver, and that the
plaintiff was thereby and without any negligence on his part
thrown from the car and injured, then he is entitled to
reco.ver."
"If the jury believe from the evidence that the conductor,
at the request of the plaintiff, rang the bell to stop the car for
plaintiff to get off, and that thereupon the car slowed and the
plaintiff went out on the platform and, while the car was moving very slowly, stepped down on the step of the car to be in
readiness to step off when the car should fully stop, and that
instead of stopping fully the car moved suddenly forward in
consequence of the negligent act of the conductor or driver
and he was thereby thrown off and injured, it would be for the
jury to say, under all the facts and circumstances of the case.
shown m evidence, whether the conduct of the plaintiff caused'
or contributed to his injury, and if they further believe that
the plaintiff did under the circumstances what an ordinarily
prudent man.would have done, then fie was not guilty of contributory negligence and would be entitled to recover."
"If the jury find for the plaintiff they will find for him such
an amount of damages as will fully compensate him for the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

suffering of mind and body inflicted upon him by his injury,
for the personal inconvenience, the loss of time, and the expenses of cure that naturally and proximately resulted from
the injury he suffered, and if they find that the injuries sustained by the plaintiff are permanent they will also find for
him such damages as will fully compensate him for the suffering of mind and body, the personal inconvenience, and the loss
of time that he will suffer in the future. In determining this
as to the future they will consider plaintiff's bodily vigor and
age as shown by the evidence adduced."
The defendant prayed the court to instruct the jury as
follows
"The burthen of proof is upon the plaintiff to satisfy the
jury that he sustained the injury which is the subject of this
action by reason of the negligence of the defendant and without contributory negligence on his part."
But the court refused to give the instruction as prayed, and
modified it by striking out the words "and without contributory negligence on his part," and gave it as modified.
Defendant asked the court to give the following instruction
"If the jury shall find that the platform was crowded, and
that the plaintiff made his way through the crowd and got
down from the platform and on to the step below and stood on
the step without any means of support, with a person on each
side and a crowd behind, and whilst the plaintiff was so standing a sudden movement of the car caused the plaintiff to fall
from the step on to the pavement, whereby he received the
injury alleged, then it will be for the jury to determine from
the evidence whether or not the plaintiff is chargeable with
contributory negligence through such acts, and if the jury
shall find that he is so -chargeable, then the plaintiff is not
entitled to the verdict."
But the court refused to give the same without modification,
and modified it by inserting after the word "chargeable," in
the last line of the instruction, the following" "And that such
negligence contributed to the injury"
Defendant also asked the court to give several instructions, which need not be repeated, and which were refused

WASHINGTON & GEORGETOWN R'D v. HARMON.

575

Statement of the Case.

or modified, and, among others, this, omitting the words in
brackets
"It was not the duty of the conductor of the street car from
which the plaintiff was injured to exercise any physical control
over the plaintiff in getting off the car, and if the jury shall find
from the evidence that when the conductor rang the bell to stop
the car and when the plaintiff passed out of the car upon the
platform and upon the step the conductor was standing on the
inside of the car, and that the platform was crowded with passengers, and that a boy was on the step next to the car and a
man was also on the other end of the step'in such a position
as to prevent the plaintiff from supporting himself by either
of the railings at the time the plaintiff stepped down upon the
step, and that the car was in motion, and that while so on the
step the plaintiff was thrown off the car by a sudden jerk or
start of the car, caused by the ringing of the bell or otherwise,
then it will be for the jury to determine whether or not the
plaintiff is chargeable with contributory negligence [by such
acts,] and if the jury shall find that he is so chargeable [and
that said negligence contributed to the accident,] the verdict
must be for the defendant."
But the court refused to glove this instruction without modification, and modified it by the insertion of the words given
above in brackets.
At defendant's request the court gave the following
instructions
"1First. If from the evidence the jury shall find that the injury would not have occurred if the plaintiff had waited until
the car stopped, and that the injury was caused by the plaintiff
attempting to get off the car whilst in motion, then the plaintiff contributed to the injury, and is not entitled to recover.
"Second. If the jury shall be satisfied from the evidence
that the plaintiff himself so far contributed to the accident
by his own negligence or want of ordinary care and caution
that but for such negligence or want of ordinary care and
caution on his part the accident would not have happened, the
plaintiff cannot recover, and the verdict must be for the
defendant."

OCTOBER TERTM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

The court also charged the jury as follows
" This case suggests four theories as to the cause of this
accident which is complained of under the declaration and as
many propositions of law applicable to them. How far there
is sufficient evidence in the case or any evidence to support
any one of these theories I shall leave to you. In the first
,place, the testimony on the part of the defendant is to the
'effect that the plaintiff had descended from the car (in safety)
and that he stepped and fell from some cause not attributable
to the conduct of the defendant, but from some unforeseen
accident. If you find that to be the case it is perfectly
apparent that there is -no ground of action at all. There is
evidence in the case directly to that effect which is to be
construed by you and weighed in connection with all the
other evidence before you. If the plaintiff undertook, after
requesting the conductor to stop the car, to descend from the
car while it was still in motion, however slowly it might be
going, that is an act involving necessarily some imprudence,
so I take it, and if that act was the cause of his falling it
would amount, in my judgment, to contributory negligence
and would defeat his action. If you are satisfied that it was
an act of carelessness on his part to come out on the crowded
platform and step down on the step while it was already
occupied by other people, so that he had to stand between
them and had no means of supporting himself, and in consequence of that alone he fell from the car without any other
cause - I say if you are satisfied that that was an act of carelessness on his part, and that it was the direct cause of his falling off.the car, that would also amount to contributory negligence, which would defeat his right to recover. Fourthly, if
you are satisfied that while he was upon the step, even though
it might have been imprudent in him to go there, and yet if
the conductor had allowed the car to stop he would have
alighted in safety and no accident would have happened, but
that instead of so doing the conductor either negligently failed
to observe whether or not he had alighted, or, seeing him
there, neglected to wait until he had alighted, and gave the
signal to go on, and in consequence of that a 5udden jerk of

WASHINGTON & GEORGETOWN ITD v. HARMON. 577
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the car took place,.and that threw him down and was the
immediate cause of his falling, and that the accident would
not have happened but for that fact, then I hold that the
company is responsible."
Exceptions were duly taken by the d'fendant.
2fr Walter .D Davzdge and XMr .Enoch Totten for plaintiffs
in error.
It was error to leave the question of contributory negligence
to the jury Whether there has been contributory negligence
on the part of the plaintiff is a question for the jury under
the same circumstances and subject to the same limitations
as the question whether there has been negligence on the part
of the defendant. The rule, briefly, is that where the facts
are undisputed and where but one reasonable inference can be
drawn from them the question is one of law for the court,
but where the facts are left by the evidence in dispute, or
where fair minds might draw different conclusions from them,
it must go to the jury to resolve the dispute in the one case o,
to draw the inferences in the other. Randall v Baltimore
& Ohio Railroad,109 U. S. 478, Railroad Co. v Jones, 95
U. S. 439, D strzot of Golumbza v. AlcElligott, 117 U S. 621,
State v. Baltimore & 0hio Railroad,73 Maryland, 374.
While it is the duty of a street railroad company to provide
safe and convenient means of entering and leaving its cars,
there is a corresponding obligation on the part of the passenger to exercise ordinary care and prudence, and if in this
respect he is negligent, and his negligence contributes to the
injury of which he complains, he cannot recover.
The rule to be applied is ordinary care and caution - that
degree of care which men of ordinary prudence would exercise
under the circumstances -and the judge, in a case like the
present, is quite as capable of applying that rule to plain and
undisputed facts as a jury is.
While to ride upon the platform, or even upon the step with
the support of the railing, may not be negligence in all cases,
and much less negligence in law, it is submitted that to volunVOL. oxLvii-37

OCTOBER TERM; 1892.
Argument for Plaintiffs m Error.

tarily ride upon the step of a moving car without any means
of support is, in the absence of justification or excuse, necessarily negligence, according to any reasonable standard of care
and prudence. Wills v. -Lynn & Boston Railroad,129 Mass.
351, Jones v. Railroad Co., supra.
It cannot be doubted that a passenger voluntarily occupying
an unsafe position in a car, and injured by reascn of such posttion, is barred by contributory negligence from a recovery
It\ such a case the want of ordinary care is plainly a proximate cause of the injury If the injury -would have happened
irrespective of the unsafe position, then such position would
not be a proximate cause.
We concede that the burden of proof as to contributory
negligence is, as a rule, upon the defendant. Railroad Co. v
Gladmon, 15 Wall. 401, Indianapolis& St. Louzs Railroad
v -Horst,93 U. S. 291, Inland & Seaboard Coasting Co. v.
Tolson, 139 U. S. 531. The question is whether the rule is
applicable to the present case.
The evidence was closed. The right to recover depended
exclusively upon the evidence of the plaintiff, and his relation
to the case was double - that of party and sole witness. He
could enlighten the court and jury by evidence in the ordinary
sense of that term, and he could also bind himself by solemn
admissions made under oath in a judicial proceeding. He
testified fully as to the facts, including his own conduct, and a
recovery could be claimed only upon his evidence. It is submitted that in such a case the ordinary presumption of law in
favor of care and prudence on the part of the plaintiff has
no place.
We do not dispute that a plaintiff may recover damages
for an injury caused by the defendant's negligence, notwithstanding the plaintiff's own negligence exposed him to the
risk of the injury, if such injury was proximately caused by
the defendant's omission, after becoming aware of the plaintiff's danger, to use ordinary care and diligence for the purpose of avoiding injury to him. But this exception does not
abrogate the general rule as to contributory negligence, and
it is apparent that if the elements of time and opportunity do

WASHINGTON & GEORGETOWN R'D v. HAlRMON.

679

Counsel for Defendant in Error.

not clearly exist, the application of the exception is simply to
destroy the general rule and to substitute for it the rule of
eomparatzve negligence.
In Maryland there are two cases which very clearly draw
the line between where the exception is and is not applicable.
The first is Northern Central Railway v Przee, 29 Maryland,
420, where a person negligently walking on a railroad track
was killed, and there was time and opportunity for the defendant to avoid the injury The second is Northern Central
Railway v Gem, 31 Maryland, 357, where, under circumstances very similar to those of the present case, it was
contended that the exception was applicable, as the negligence of the plaintiff was remote and that of the defendant
proximate. Judge Alvey, delivering the opinion of the court
in the latter case, draws the distinction between the two cases.
He says "It must appear that the defendant might by' a
proper degree of caution have avoided the consequences of the
injured party's neglect.
This, however, implies time
for the one party to become aware of the conduct and situation of the other, for neither could be required to anticipate
the other's negligence. But where there is a concurrence of
negligence of both in the production of injury to one of the
parties, the causes are commingled and are regarded as
equally proximate to the effect produced, and therefore not
susceptible of apportionment. And if it -be true that the
deceased was guilty of negligence, it must, from the nature of
the accident, have been of this latter character" (p. 366).
This case was followed by Lewis v. Baltimore & Ohto
Railroad, 38 Maryland, 588, 598, 599, 600, 601, .Kean v
Baltimore & Oho Railroad,61 Maryland, 154, 167, 168, and
.Maryland Central Railroad v Neubeur, 62 Maryland, 391,
401,402, in which the doctrine as laid down by Judge Alvey
was discussed and affirmed.
-Mr W A. Cook and lMr T L. Cole, (with whom was _Y
C. 0. Cole on the brief,) for defendant in error.
Mr Luther H. Pike and .Mr A. St. (I Denver also filed a
brief for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JusTicE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

It is contended that it was error to leave the question of
contributory negligence- to the jury We do not think so.
This was not a case where the facts were undisputed, and
where but one reasonable inference could be drawn from them.
Tlxe court was not obliged, in the exercise of a sound judicial
discretion, to set aside the verdict because the evidence of
contributory negligence was of such conclusive character that
it could not be sustained. RailroadCo. v Con'verse, 139 U. S.
469.
It was the duty of the defendant to safely carry and deliver
the passenger, and in so doing not only to provide safe and
convenient means of entering and leaving the cars, but to stop
when the passenger was abo*t to alight, and not to start the
car until he had alighted. There was a conflict of evidence
as to the condition of the platform, the position of the plaintiff, and the circumstances surrounding the accident. It is
conceded that to be upon the platform, or even upon the step,
might not be negligence in all cases, and certainly not negligence in law, but it is insisted that the plaintiff was'voluntarily
riding upon the step of the car, when moving, without any
means of support, and that this, in the absence of justification
or excuse, would necessarily be negligence. The difficulty is
that this position assumes a condition of affairs which is controverted upon the case made.
It is further argued, that, while the general rule is that the
burden of proof as to contributory negligence is upon the
defendant, that rule was not applicable, because the presumption that the plaintiff was not in fault was overcome by plaintiff's own evidence, and therefore that the court should have
instructed the jury that the burden of proof was not only
upon the plaintiff to satisfy the jury that he sustained the
'injury by reason of the negligence of- the defendant, but also
that this was without contributory i3egligence on his part.
Testing this contention by the evidence of the plaintiff alone,
without admitting that this should be done where the defend-

WASHINGTON & GEORGETOWN lR'D v. HARMONd. 581
Opinion of the Court.

.ant has gone into evidence and the ruling he asks must be
given in view, of all the testimony, the precise question was
decided in Indianavolis & St. _Louzs Railroad v Hforst, 93
U. S. 291, 298, adversely to defendant's position. In that
case the defendant adduced no evidence, and it was contended
that plaintiff's evidence showed that the accident resulted
from his negligence, and that, therefore, the trial court erred
in chargig that "The burden of proving contributory negligence rests on the defendant, and it will not avail the defendant unless it has been established by a preponderance of
evidence." This court held the instruction correct, and said
"The court did not say that if such negligence were established by the plaintiff's evidence, the defendant could have no
benefit from it, nor that the fact could only be made effectual
'by a preponderance of evidence, coming exclusively from the
party on whom rested the burden of proof. It is not improbable that the charge was so given by the -court from an
apprehension that the jury might, without it, be misled to
believe that it was incumbent on the plaintiff to show affirmatively the absence of such negligence on his part, and that if
there was no proof, or insufficient proof, on the subject, there
was a fatal defect in his case. It-was, therefore, eminently
proper to say upon whom the burden of proof rested, and
this was done without in anywise neutralizing the effect of
the testimony the plaintiff had given, if there were any, bearing on the point adversely to him."
The defendant did not attempt to have the case taken away
from the jury at the' conclusion of plaintiff's evidence, and if
it had, we do not think a motion to that effect could have
been sustained. As a mere matter of law, the burden as to
contributory negligence remained the same under the circumstances, and it would have been error if the court had given
the instruction as requested.
It is urged with particular earnestness that the fourth
branch of the charge was objectionable in stating that even
though plaintiff was negligent in being upon the step before
the car had stopped, yet if they were satisfied that the accident would not haYe happened if the conductor had allowed

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the car to stop, but that instead of so doing the conductor
either negligently failed to observe whether he had alighted
or not, or, seeing him there, neglected to wait until he had
alighted and gave the signal to go on, and in consequence of
that a sudden jerk of the car took place which threw him
down and was the immediate cause of the injury, and that
the accident would not have happened but for that fact, then
the plaintiff could recover. The argument is, that the rule
applied in the instruction is that which obtains where the
plaintiff's negligence exposes hin to the risk of injury, and
the defendant omits, after becoming aware of plaintiff's danger, to use ordinary care and diligence to avert the consequences, and it is said that whether a defendant is negligent or
not, in failing to adapt his conduct to a condition of things caused
by the negligence of the plaintiff, depends upon whether the
defendant had time and opportunity to ascertain and avoid the
injury TVorthern, Central Railway v Prwoe, 29 Maryland, 420,
and Northern Central Railway v Gezs, 31 Maryland, 357,
,with other like cases, are cited to the point that the exception
to the general rule as to contributory negligence is not otherwise applicable. The language of Judge Alvey, in the latter
case, is quoted as follows "It must appear, either that the
defendant might, by a proper degree of caution, have avoided
the consequencespof the injured party's neglect, or that the
latter could not,'by ordinary care, have avoided the consequences ofthe defendant's negligence. This, however, implies
tinme for the one party to become aware of the conduct and
sttuation of the other, for neither could be required to anticip9te the other's negligence. But where there is a concurrence
of neg'ligence of both in the production of injury to one of
the parties, the causes are commingled, and are regarded as
equally proximate to the effect produced, and, therefore, not
susceptible of apportionment." But, as explained by Judge
James in the opnion in this case, the om.ssion-to which the
instruction refers was not the omission to observe that a
person had placed himself in danger of being hurt by the
defendant, whereby the latter was called upon to exercise
care to avert that consequence, but it was the omission to

WASHINGTON & GEORGETOWN R'D v. HARMON. 58a
Opuiion of the Court.

observe whether the passenger whom the defendant was
setting down had actually alighted._The duty resting upon the
defendant was to deliver its passenger, and that involved
the duty of observing whether lie had actually alighted before
the car was started again. If the conductor failed to attend
to that duty, and did not give the passenger time enough to
get off before the car started, it was necessarily this neglect
of duty that did the mischief. It was not a duty due to a
person solely because he was in danger of being hurt, but
a duty owed to a p-erson whom the defendant had undertaken
to deliver, and who was entitled to be. delivered safely by
being allowed to alight without danger. Viewed in this
light, the instruction was unobjectionable. If the conductor
negligently failed to observe whether plaintiff, had alighted,
or knowug that he had not, negligently started the car too
soon, and in consequence of that, a sudden jerk of the -car
took place and threw him down and was the immediate cause
of his falling, and the acoident would not have happened but
for'that fact, we think it clear that such negligence as might
be imputed to the plaintiff in being upon the step at all, could
not, under the circumstances supposed, be properly held to
have been contributory negligence. To hold so would be to
determine that a carrier could defend his own- negligence in
the particulars name~d upon, the ground that if the plaintiff
had not been there h)e would not have been hurt. It may be
said that he placed himself where he was in risk of falling off,
but that was a risk he could not have anticipated. as the result
of a sudden start before he had got off, because he had a
right to assume that the car would actually stop to allow him
to get off,. and if it had, as it should have done, upon the
hypothesis of the instruction, no accident would have happened. Under the terms of the instruction the injury ensued
directly from the defendant's negligence, and that was its
proximate cause. Inland and Seaboard Coastng Co. v Tol
8on, 139 U. S. 551, 558.
The learned judge who tried the case, in explaining its
varions aspects, stated that it suggested four theorieg as to tho
cause of the accident, and whether there was sufficient or any

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opmion of the Court.

evidence to support any one of these theories, he should leave
to the jury He meant, of course, that the jury should consider the case from all the points of view presented, and
exclude such of the contentions as were unsupported by the
evidence. We see no ground upon which the defendant
can complain of this. We cannot find upon exploring the
evidence, all of which is given in the record, that it reasonably
tended to show that the plaintiff was injured in getting off
the car while it was in motion. The plaintiff denied it, and
the conductor said that it was safe for the plaintiff to get off,
and that he got off. Yet the court, permitted the jury to pass
-upon the ase as if the proofs raised an actual controversy
upon the point. Perhaps such an inference might have been
drawn, as plaintiff's claim was that he was about to get off,
but, taking the opening passage of the charge in connection
with what followed, we think that the defendant cannot complain that it was improperly deprived of the judgment of the
court, and that thereby the door was open to mere conjecture
on the part of the jury, to its injury
Another error assigned is that the instruction in relation to
damages was objectionable in permitting an award for the
future effects of the injury, but there was evidence which
justified a finding that future damages would inevitably and
necessarily result, and this being so there was no error in the
instruction upon that subject.
It appears to us that this case was carefully tried and
properly left to the jury, and that no error warranting the
reversal of the judgment was committed.
It is further urged that the court in general term erred in
rendering a judgment for interest against the defendant and

its surety, notwithstanding the judgment of the special term
bore no interest. The question, is whether by the law of the
District of Columbia a judgment m an action of tort carries
interest. In McDade v WaTk1Angton & Georgetown Railroad,
5 Mackey, 144, this subject was considered by the Supreme
-Court of the District, and the court concluded that such
judgments did bear interest, Hagner, J., delivering an elaborate opinion to that effect. It is conceded that at common

WASmINGTON & GEORGETOWN R'D v. HARMON. 585
Opunon of the Court..

law, judgments, whatever the cause of action, did not bear
interest. Perkz= v. Fourntguet,14 How 328. This was so
in Maryland at the time of the cession of the District, with
perhaps some exceptions, not embracing judgments in actions
of tort. Rammond v Hammond, 2 Bland, 306, 370, Railway Co. v. Sewell, 37 Maryland, 443. To change the common
law in the District after the cession, of course required an act
of Congress.
By the act of June 24, 1812, (2 Stat. 756, c. 106, § 6, Rev.
Stat. Dist. Col., § 829,) it was provided as follows "Upon all
judgments rendered on the common law side of the Circuit
Court of said District in actions founded on contracts, interest
at the rate of six per centum per annum shall be awarded on
the principal sum due until the judgment shall be satisfied,
and the amount which is to bear interest and the time from
which it is to be paid shall be ascertained by the verdict of
the jury sworn in the cause."
By its terms this provision was confined exclusively to
actions founded on contracts. As appears from .lewson v.
.Douglasq, 7 Harr. & Johns. 417, .Karthausv Qwmngs, 2 G.
& J. 430, City Railway Co. v. ewel, .37Maryland, 443, and
many other cases, only some causes of action carried interest
at common law, in Maryland, as matter of right, its-allowance
otherwise -being left to the jury to be decided according to
the equities of the trausaction, and, with few exceptions in
cases of contract, no judgment in any form carried interest.
This law applied the remedy, but it declared that, while interest was to be allowed on the principal sum due, the amount
which was to bear interest and time from which the interest
was to run should be ascertained by the verdict of the jury
Interest was not to be awarded upon a judgment for the
aggregate of principal and interest, but interest was recoverable upon the principal sum due from the date ascertained as
directed.
The 8th section of the act of August 23, 1842, (5 Stat. 5161
518, c. 188,) proviled "That on all judgments in 6ivl cases,
hereafter recovered iii the Circuit or Distridt Courts of,.the
United States, interest shall be allowed, and may be levied by

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opmiion of the Court.

the marshal, under process of execution issued thereon, in all
cases where, by the law of the State in which such Circuit
or District Courts shall be-held, interest may be levied under
process of execution on judgments recovered in the courts of
such State, to be calcurated from the date of the judgment,
and at such rate per annum, as is allowed by law, on judgnrents recovered in the courts of such State." This was carried forward into section 966 of the IRevised Statutes. The
purpose of this act was to bring about uniformity between
the tribunals of the United States and of the States upon the
subject of interest, and the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia is neither within its terms nor its object. It is
wholly inapplicable. Whatever the- law of the District of
Columbia is, upon the subject of interest, controls of course.
On the 22d of -April, 1870, an act was approved, entitled
"An act-to amend the usury laws of the District of -Columbia," the first section of which read. "That the rate of
interest upon judgments- or decrees, and upon the loan or
forbearance of any money, goods, or things in action, shall
continue to be six dollars upon one hundred dollars, for one
year, and after that rate for a greater or less sum, or for a
longer or shorter time, except as hereinafter provided." The
second section made it lawful, in all contracts thereafter to
be made, for the parties to agree in writing for ten per centum
per annum, or any less sum, 6f interest on money loaned or
in any manner due and owing. The other sections related
to the penalty for contracting to receive a greater rate, the
recovery back of unlawful interest 'so received, and to the
effect of the law upon the national banking act. 16 Stat. 91,
c. 59. These sections constitute §§ 713, '714, 715, 716, and 117
of-the Revised Statutes of the District.
This act related, as its-title correctly stated, to the usury
laws of the District, -and the rate of -interest at six per cent
was to continue except as provided by the subsequent section,
penalty being denounced for contracting in writing for a
greater rate than ten or verbally for a greater rate than six
per cent. Judgments and decrees, as well as the loan or forbearance- of. money, goods,. or things in action, are referred to,

WASHINGTON1

& GEORGETOWN, R'D v. HARMvfON. 587
Opmlon of the Court.

but the act does not say that they shall bear interest in the
future if they did not in the past. On the contrary, that
which had been was to continue, and the changes wrought
by the statute were only in the rate and the consequences of
trainsgression. There is nothing to indicate a legislative intention to declare that all judgments and decrees should thereafterwards bear interest by virtue of the statute, or to make
any change in that respect. Such a view disregards the language of the act, which confines the exception to existing law
to the enumeration of the succeeding sections. Judgments
bore interest in actions founded on contracts as, provided by
the act of 1812, the award of interest being based upon -the
verdict and to be collected on the principal sum. Judgments
in tort did not bear interest. The ru~le could, indeed, be altered or repealed by Congress, but the statute to that effect
should be plain and unambiguous, or the repugnancy between
the old law and the new, incapable of being reasonably overcome. We are unable to conclude that this act of 1870 comes
within the settled rules of construction in this regard..
By section 997 of the Revised Statutes of the District,
justices of the peace have jurisdiction where the amount
claimed for debt or damages arising out of contracts or damages for injuries to persons or property does not exceed one
hundred dollars, and by section 1007,, justices' judgments bear
interest from their date until paid or satisfied, but it does not
follow that, because Congress intended to allow interest upon
judgments in tort not exceeding one hundred dollars, therefore all judgments in tort bear interest.
Reference was made at the bar to certain rules of the
Supreme Court of the District which are and have been, since
1869, as -follows
"51. A general verdict for the plaintiff shall be recorded
thus: 'The jury, on their oath,.say they find the issue aforesaid in favor of the plaintiff, and that "the money payable to
him by-the defendant by reason of the premises, is the sum of
$, besides costs.' If the action be founded on contract,
the record of the verdict shall proceed- ' With lawful interest
besides costs.'
from the - day of -,'18-,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

"If the verdict be for the defendant, then 'The jury, on
their oath, say they find for the defendant,' unless, upon setoff pleaded, -a balance is found due the defendant, and then
the record of the verdict shall proceed. ' And that the money
payable to him by-the plaintiff, by reason of the premises, is
the sum of $-

,

with interest from the - day of

-

, 18-,

besides costs.'
"If there be several counts in the declaration, and the jury
find for the plaintiff on some and for the defendant on the
rest, the verdict shall be entered thus 'The jury, on their
oath say, they find for the plaintiff on the (-) issues, and that
the money payable to him by the defendant, by reason thereof,
is the sum of $-,

[with interest from the -- day of

,

18-,] besides costs, and for the defendant on the (-)
issues.' )

"67. Whatever the cause of action may be, if the judgment
be for the recovery of money, it shall be awarded generally
without any distinction of debt from damages - thus 'It is
considered that the -plaintiff recover against the defendant
$--,
[with interest as aforesaid,] being the money payable
by him to the plaintiff by reason of the premises, and $for his costs of suit, and that he have execution thereof."'
These .rules are in conformity with the act of 1812. The
jury find the principal sum and the time from which interest
on the contract shall be givpn. In an aution of tort the jury
include interest, if given at all, in the damages assessed. The
form of the judgment prescribed follows the verdi~t, discriminates betwpen contract and tort, and/recognizes that the judgments that 43arry interest do so by reason of the verdict to
that effect. We think no support to the view that judgments
in tort bear interest by force of law can be derived from these
rules.

- -

Nor is the contention sustained by reference to the rules of
this court. Bythe 23d section of the Judiciary Act of 1789,
now section 1010 of the Revised Statutes, it was declared,
"Where, upon such writ of error the Supreme or a Circuit
-Court shall affirm a judgment or decree, they shall adjudge or
decree to the respondent in error just damages for his delay,

WASHINGTON & GEORGETOWN R'D v. HARMAON. 589
Opinion. of the Court.

and single or double costs at their discretion." And by various rules of this court, promulgated from time to time, this
jurisdiction has been regulated. Thus, in cases of affirmance,
where the writ is for mere delay, ten per cent damages -may
be awarded in addition to interest, and interest is given at the
same rate that similar judgments bear interest in the courts of
the State where the judgment was rendered, and the same rule
is applied to decrees for the payment cf money, unless otherwise
ordered by this court. (Rule 23.) But the question of interest
is solely for the court to determine, as the act of 184,2 did not
repeal the 23d section of the Judiciary Act. Boyce v. G-undy,
9 Pet. 275, .Mitehel v Harmony,13 How 115, 149, Perkins
v. Fourniuet,14 How 328, 331, _I re Washzngton & Georgetown Railroad,140 U S. 91.
We are of opinion that error was committed in the judgment of affirmance in respect of the allowance of interest.
In -Yeller v .Ashford, 133 U. S. 610, which, was a case of
contract, the matter in dispute in the District Supreme Court
m general term was, .with interest accrued before the affirmance; largely in excess of the amount necessary to give jurisdiction to this court. A motion was made to dismiss, which
was overruled, and Mr. Justice Gray, delivering the opinion
of the court, pointed out that the promissory note sued on,.by
its express terms, bQre interest at the rate of eight per cent
yearly from its dateluntil paid, and that, computing interest
accordingly, the sum in dispute was much more than the
jurisdictional amount, and as to Railroad Co. v. Took, 100
U. S.112, and .Dzstrct of Columbta v Gannon, 130 U. S. 227,
(which involved judgments rendered in cases in tort,) cited in
support of the motion, he remarked that the judgment in
special term.for damages for an action sounding in tort "bore
no interest, either by the general ]av, or by the judgment of
affirmance in general term." In each of the cases referred to,
the judgment of affirmance was only for the amount which
the sum or value of the matter in dispute had to exceed in
order to give us jurisdiction. Had the original judgments
carried interest by force of law, jurisdirtion -would have attached. .Mass. Benefit Assoczatton v JXiles, 137 U. S. 689.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

But as the question was not fully discussed, we have thought
it proper to reconsider it in the light afforded by the opinion
of the Supreme Court of the District in MoDade's case.
While, however, we are of opinion that there was error in
this particular in the judgment of affirmance, we are not constrained to reverse it, if the interest be remitted. Bank of
Kentucky v Ashley, 2 Pet. 327, Phillips& Colby Construction Co. v. Seymour, 91 U. S. 646, 656, Eennon v Gilmer,
131 U. S. 22, 29. In Bank v. Ashley, the remittitur was filed
in this court. In Construction Co. v Seymour, the remittitur
was filed in the court below and a certified copy thereof filed
here. If the defendant in error shall within a reasonable time
during the present term of this court produce and file a certified copy of a remittitur of the interest in the Supreme Court
of the District, the judgment, less the interest, will be
affirmed, but if this is not done, it will be reversed. In
either event the costs must be paid by defendant in error.
Ordered, that Vif the defendant 'n error shall, 'witkin a 'easonable time durzng thepresent term of this court, produce
and ftle a certified copy off a remittitur of the -interest 'n
the Supreme Court of the JDstrzct of Columrbui the judgment, less the 'nterest, will be aflirmed, but if th's zs not
done it will be reversed. In either event the costs must be
.paidby the defendant 'in error
Mr. JusnicE BRWEWFR did not hear the. argument and took
no part in the decision.

