OCTOBER- TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

The case at bar does not fallwithin Chafe&County v. Potter,
and cannot be distinguished ii principle from Dixon County v.
FieldorLfrom Lake: County v. Graham. The only difference
worthy of notice is that in each of these cases
the single fact
required to be shown by the public record was the valuation
of the property of the county; whereas here two facts are to
be so shown, the valuation of the property, and the amount of
the county debt. But, as both these facts are equally required
by the statute to be entered on the public records of the
county, they are both facts of which all the world is bound to
take notice, and as to which, therefore, the county cannot be
concluded 1by any recitals in the bonds.
It follows that the rst question certifted must be answered
in the ;ffrmative, and the second in the negative. Ordered

accordingly.

KOIN ,v. MoKULTA.
APPEAL FROM THE OIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE,NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 105. 'Submitted January4,1893. -Decided January 16,1893.

The verdict of a jury upon an issue submitted to it by order of a Court of
Chancery is advisory only, and is binding upon the court only so far as
it chooses to adopt It.
A servant of a railroad company, employed in coupling freight cars together,
who is well acquainted with the structure of the freight cars of his
employer, and also with. those of other companies sending freight cars
over his employer's road differing from his employer's cars in structure
and in the risk run in coupling them, assumes, by entering upon the ser* vice, all ordinary risks ruii from coupling all such cars.

Ox April 29, 1887, appellant entered into the employ of the
defendant, the receiver of the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific
Railway Company, as a switchman iin the yards of the company at Toledo, Ohio' He continued in such employ until the
11th of Tuly, 1887, on which day, in attempting to couple two

KOHN v. McNULTA.
Argument for Appellant.

freight cars, his arm was caught between the deadwoods and
crushed.

Thereafter, he filed his petition- of intervention in

the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Ohio, the court which had appointed Xc1Nulta
receiver, and in which the foreclosure proceedings were still
pending. At first his intervening petition wag referred to a
master, but afterwards, on his motion, the order of reference
was set aside and a jury called and empanelled. The testimony having all been received, the court left to the jury the
single question of the amount of damages which the intervenor
should recover, if entitled to recover anything, and the jury in
response thereto found that his daniages were $10,000. The
court, however, on an examination of the testimony held that
no cause of action was madeout against the receiver, set aside
the verdict of the jury, and' dismissed the petition, -From
which decision the intervenor brcught his appeal to this court.
.Xr. J.

. Hamilton for appellant..

I. Whether the court can or cannot take a case from, the
jury and direct a nonsuit, especially under the Federal practice,
is a question with which, no doubt, this court is more familiar
than counsel and we shall not discuss it. The rule laid down
in Moak's Underhill on Torts, page 317, is doubtless correct,
which is, "whether, there is treasonabkl evidence to be left to
the jury of negligence occasioning the injury complained of is
a question for the judge. It is for the jury to say whether
and 'how far the evidence is to be believed." To this should
be added what; appears in another rule on page 318 of the
same work: "If the facts depend upon the credibility of witnesses or upon inferences to be drawn from the circumstances
proved, then it is the right of'the'plaintiff to have the question
...
submitted to the jury."
to make such regucompany
railroad
I. It is the duty of a
employs 'as -will
its,
lations or provisions for the safety of
afford them reasonable protection against tkp danger incident
to the performance of their respective duties. If there exist
facts known to the, employer, and unknown to the employe,

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court..

increasing the risk of such employment beyond its ordinary
hazards, the employer is bound to disclose such facts to his
employ6, otherwise he will be liable as for negligence in case
of injury- resulting to the latter by reason of such unusual
risks. Smith v. St. Louis &c.Railway, 69 Missouri, 32 ; Porter
v. HZannibal & St. Jo8. Railroad,71 Missouri, 66 ; Cooinbs v.
.New Bedford Cordage Co., 102 Mass. 572; Dorseyv. Phillips
Colby Cois. Co., 42 Wisconsin, 583; Lawless v. Conn. River
Railroad, 136 Mass. 1; Forsyth v. Hooper, 11 Allen, 419;
.0ayzer v. Taylor, 10 Gray, 274; S. C. 69 Am. Dec. 317;
Clarke v. Holmes, 71. & N. 937; Baxter v. Roberts, 4.4 California, 187; Williams v. Clough; 3 H. & N. 258; Hill v. Gust,
55 Indiana, 45 ; O'Connor v. Adams, 120 Mass. 427; Valsh
v. Pee'te Valve Co., 110 Mass. 23; Keegan v. KYavanaugh, 62
Missouri, 230; Hough v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213; .orther, Pacif Railroadv. 2Wares, 123 U. S. 710.
-.
Mr. Wells E. Blodgett for appellee.
Ma. JUsTiCE Bzmvxa, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
So far as the mere matter of procedure is concerned, there
was obviously no error. The interveAtion was a proceeding
in a court of equity, and that court may direct a verdict by 'a
jury upon any single fact, or upon all the matters in dispute;
but such verdict is not binding upon the judgment of the court.
It is advisory simply, and the court may disregard it entirely,
or adopt it either partially or in toto. Barton v. Barbour,104
U. S.126; 2 Daniell's Chancery P1. and Pr., 5 ed. 1148, and
cases cited in notd ; Idaho & Oregon Land Improvement Co.
v. Bradbury, 132 U. S.509, 516, and cases cited.
With respect to the merits of the case, the decision of the
court was also clearly correct. The intervenor was twenty-six
years of age; he bad been working as a blacksmith for about six
years before entering into the employ of the defendant; he
had been engaged in this work of coupling cars in the company's yard for over two monthsbefore the accident, and was

KOHN v. McNULTA.

2i

Opinion of the Court.

therefore familiar with the tracks. and condition of the yard,
and not inexperienced, in the. business. He claims that the
Wabash freight cars, which constituted -by far the larger num-

ber of cars which passed through that yard, had none of those
deadwoods or bumpers ; but inasmuch as he had in fact seen

and coupled- cars like the ones that caused- the accident,-and
that more than once, and as the deadwoods were .obvious to
any one attempting to make the coupling, and -the danger
from them apparent, it must be held that it was one of the
risks which he assumed in entering upon the service. A railroad company is guilty of no negligence in receiving ifito its
yards, and passing over. its line, cars, freight or passenger,
different from those it itself owns and uses. Baldwin v. Railroad Co., 50 Iowa, 680; Indianapolis& Bloomington Railroad
v. Flanigan, 77 Illinois, 365; .Michigan Central 'Railroady.
Smithson, 45 Michigan, 212; Hathaway v.Xfichigan Central
Railroad, 51 Michigan, 253; Thomas v. Missouri Pacifio
Railway, 18 S. W. Rep. 980, (Missouri Supreme Court.)
It is not pretended that these cars were out of repair, or in
a defective condition,, but simply that they wire constructeddifferently from the Wabash cars, in that they had double
deadwoods or bumpers of unusual length to protect the drawbars. But all this was obvious to even a passing glance, and
the risk which there was in coupling such cars Was apparent;
It required no special skill or knowledge to detect. it; The
intervenor was no boy, placed by the employer in a position
of undisclosed danger, but a mature man, doing the 'ordinary
work which he had engaged to do, ahd whose risks, in this
respect were obvious to any one. Under those circumstances
he assumed the risk of such an accident as this, and no negligence can be imputed to the emplkyer.' Tttle v. Detroit,
Grand Haven &c. Railway, 122 U. S. 189; LadZv. New
Bedford Railroad,119 Mass. 412..
The decision of the Circuit Court was right, and it is
VOL. -xLv-16

