.218

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

OSBORNE v. MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 95. Argued°December 16,19, 1892.-- Decided January 16, 1893.
A bill was filed against a railroad company in Missouri by the owner of a
building on a public street in St. Louis, on which the company was
about, under competent municipal authority, to lay down tracks at
grade for use in running cars drawn by steam power. The bill prayed
to restrain and enjoin the company from commencing or carrying out
the proposed construction, or from taking possession of the street for
that purpose. The injuries to result to the complainant's building from
the proposed construction were set forth, but without any demand for
compensation other than that contained in the prayer for general relief.
The statutes of Missouri provide for the assessment of compensation
for the takifig of property for public use, but not for such assessment
where property is merely damaged. Held, that the complainant had an'
adequate remedy at law for the injuries complained of, and was not
entitled to the relief prayed for.

,THIS was a bill filed by D. M. Osborne & Company, a
corporation of the State of -New York, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri,
against the Missouri Pacific Railway Company, February 1"6,
1887, alleging that the defendant was about to construct a
track along Gratiot street, in the city of St. Louis, from its
main tracks near Twenty-third street to the property of the
St. Louis Wire Mill Company, near the corner of Twenty-first
street, in front of a building on Gratiot and' Twenty-second
streets, owned and occupied by complainant, and of a vacant
lot adjoining this building, which was also owned by complainant, and on which it intended to erect a building similar
to the one then occupied by it; and that the track would be a
permanent obstruction, and was to be laid for the private use
and gain of the Wire Mill. It was further averred that
Gratiot street was but twenty-four feet in width from 6urb tc
curb; that when the proposed building was completed accord-

OSBORNE v. MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY.

249

Statement of the Case.

ing to the original plan, there would be no entrance to the
same on any street but Gratiot street; that by reason of the
railroad tracks and the operation of the same, complainant
and the public would be prevented from using the street as
allowed by law; that travel would be diverted and turned
away; that it would be impossible for a wagon and team to
remain on Gratiot street in front of complainant's property,
while cars were being moved or might be standing on the
same; and that it would not be safe to use the street by teams
and wagons; "to the great,,unascertainable and irreparable
damage of your orator's business.'
It was also alleged that
the noise, smoke and danger from fire, and from the shaking
and vibration of complainant's buildings, caused and occa,sioned by the passage of cars and locomotives in front of
complainant's premises, would render them less desirable and
valuable as a place of business to complainant; that all the
damage threatened to be done complainant was irreparable in
its nature, and it could not be fully compensated therefor in
an action at law; and that the construction and operation of
the railroad track would reduce the market value of the
property and damage the same in a sum in excess of $30,000.
The prayer for relief was that the defendant "be restrained
and enjoined from commencing or carrying out the proposed
construction of any railroad track or switch, or from taking
possessiofi of said Gratiot street for said purpose, or from
using said Gratiot street to the exclusion-of your orator and
the public; and for all such other and further relief as may be
necessary "and proper',
On October 8, 1887, the defendant filed its amended answer,
specifically denying the allegations of complainant's bill, and
averred that the track was laid, before the filing of the bill, in
pursuanc and by authority of an ordinance of the city of
St. Louis, approved February 18, 1887, which ordinance was
set out in full in the answer. Exceptions and demurrer were
filed by the complainant to. this answer and overruled. The
opinion 6f the Circuit Court thereon will be found in 35 Fed.
Rep. 84. The court held, upon the pleadings as they stood,
that the complainant should be left to its 'remedy at law

250.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.'
Statement of the Case.

A replication was then filed and the cause came on for hearing January 31, 1889. It was stipulated that the track was
laid March 20, 1887, some days after the bill, was filed. Evidence was given on behalf of the complainant tending to show
that the existence of the railroad track on.Gratiot street lessened the value of complainant's property. The court declined
to go into the question of the amount of the damages, and
counsel for complainant disclaimed asking in this proceeding
-that the court should a8certain the amount and direct its payment.
The ordinance of the city council authorizing the construction of the track provided that the privilege of using, it should
be extended to other railroads' by connecting their tracks with
the, siitch, and that the track might be used to transport 'cars
to and from the property of any other, person or company
owning property on Gratiot street and desiring, such connection, if municipal authority and power were granted for the
laying and operation of spur tracks thereto.
There was no evidence that the track was constructed in
any other than the ordinary manner upon the surface of the
street, without change of grade or other disturbance, but it
did not appear to have been laid for the full distance in the
centre .of the street, but inclined to. the north and made a
curved line at. the west boundary of complainant's premises.
There was no evidence of improper or unskilful construction
or operation ,of the railroad, and there was evidence that,'
before and after' the construction, complainant used continuously for receiving goods the Twenty-second street entrance
to its building, It was also shown that the track was used by
the defendant in a reasonable and proper manner and at
reasonable hours, and there was a conflict of testimony as to
whether the value of complainant's property had been enhanced or lessened by reason "of the construetionof the track.,
"The.court directed the bill to be dismissed withbut prejudice
to complainant's right'to sue at law for the damages which
it claimed to have suffered, and a decree to that -effect was
accordingly entered, from which an appeal was prosecuted to
this court. The opinion is reported in 37 Fed.'Rep. 830.

OSBORNE v. -MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY.

251

Argument for AppeUant.

Section 21 of Article II of the Missouri constitdtion of 1875
provides: "That private property shall not be taken or damaged for public use without just compensation. Such compensation shall be ascertained by a jury or board of commissioners
of not less than three freeholders, in such manner as may be
prescribed by law; and until tie same shall be paid to the

owner, or into court for the owner, -the property shall not
be disturbed or the proprietary rights of the owner therein
divested. The fee of land taken for- railroad tracks without
the consent of the owner thqreof, shall remain in such owner,
subject to the use for which it is taken."
Section 765 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1879,
being one of the sections of Article II of chapter 21, relating
to railroad companies, reads: "Every corporation formed
under this article shall, in addition to the powers hereinbefore conferred, have power

.

.

.

to construct its road

across, along or upon any stream of water, water course,
street, highway, plank road, turnpike or canal which the
route of its road shall intersect or touch; but the company .
.shall restore the, stream, water course, street, highway, plank
-road and turnpike thus intersected ortouched to its former
state, or to such state as not unnecessarily to have impaired
its usefulness. lNothidog herein contained shall be construed
to authorize the . . '. construction, of any railroad not
already located in, upon- or across any street in a city or road
of any county, without the assent of the corporate authorities
of said city, or the county court of such county."
subdivision 11 of section 4417 of the Revised Statutes of
1879, in Article II of chapter- 89 in relation to cities, touns
and villages, it is provided that cities 'shall have "sole power
and authority to grant to persons or corporations the right't
construct railways in the city,'subject to the right, to ainend,
alter or repeal any such grant, in whole or in part?'
-By

.P. 1 tcraft, (with whom were Xr.
J.
and -Yr. Z. E. Uills on the brief,) for appellant.

-Acigh"

I. The -constitution of Missouri requires compeniation 'to
be paid in advance to 'owners for such damages to property as

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellant.

were previously considered consequential, and included, therein
damages to property caused by construction of steam railroads in streets. Rude v. St. Louis, 93 Missouri, 408 ; Chicago
v. Taylor, 125 U. S. 161; Chicago &c. Railroad v. Ayres, 106
Illinois, 511; followed in many cases, the last of which is
Lake Erie & WTestern Railroad v. Scott, 132 Illinois, 429;
Johnson v. Pareersburg,16 West Virginia, 402; Spencer v.
Point PleasantRailroad,23 West Virginia, 406; Reading v.
Althouse, 93 Penn. St. 400; Pusey v. Allegheny, 98 Penn. St.
522; Pittsburgh &c. Railway v. Vance, 115 Penn. St. 325;
Auman v. Philadelphia&c. Railroad,133 Penn. St. 93; Hot
Springs Railroadv. Williamson, 45 Arkansas, 429; Columbus
& Western Railway v. Titherow, 82 Alabama, 195; Gottschalk
v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad, 14 Nebraska,
550; Julia Building Association v. Bell Telephone Co., 88
Missouri, 258; Story v. New York Elevated Railroad, 90
N. Y. 122; Abendroth v. ifanhattan Railway, 122 N. Y. 1;
Kane v. -Yew York Elevated Railroad,125 N. Y. 164; .Mollandin v. Union Pacific Railway, 14 Fed. Rep. 394; Frankle
v. JTackson, 30 Fed. Rep. 398; Gulf, Colorado &c., Railway v.
Fuller, 63 Texas, 467; Atlanta v. Green, 67 Georgia, 386;
Weyl v. Sonoma Valley Railroad,69 California, 202.
II. The owner of an abutting lot has a special interest in
the street, distinct in kind, and in addition to that enjoyed by
the public in general. Interference with the right of ingress
,and egress, light, air,, access by customers, by teams and vehicles, and the use of the enjoyment of the street, is a damage
,peculiar to the owner, and protected by the Constitution.
,Rude v. St. Louis, 93 Missouri, 408; Pitsurgh&c. Railway
,v. Vance, 115 Penn. St, 325; Lackland v. .orth .Missouri
Railroad, 31 Missouri, 180; S. C. 34 Missouri, 259.
III. Where buildings have been. erected,.,adapted to a particular purpose, and a public improvement is made, which
injuriously affects the property and reduces its market value,
such a damage is for Public use, and requires compensation to
be made. Ohicago v. 'Taylor, 125 U. S. 161; Calumet River
Railway v. Afoore, 124: Illinois, 329; Ohicagq, Burlington &
Nforthern Railroad v. Bowman, 122 Illinois, 595 ; Dupuis v.

OSBORNE

. MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY.

253

Opinion of t6e Court.
Chicago 'cc.Railway, 115 Illinois, 97; .Atchinson Railroadv.
Schneider, 127 Illinois, 144;' Pittsburgh&c. Railway v. Vance,
115 Penn. St. 325.
IV. Damage caused by dust, smoke, etc. are elements of

damage to be considered.

Gainesville &c. Railway v. Ball,

78 Texas, 169; Chicago &c. Railroad v. Loeb, 118 Illinois,
208.
-V. The proper remedy is an injunction.
Carpenter v.
Grishan, 59 Missouri, 2471; MoPike v. West, 71 Missouri, 199';
McEroy v. Kansas City, 21 Fed. Rep. 257; Columbus &
Western Railway v. Withedow, 82 Alabama, 190; Wyl v.
Sonoma Talley Railroad,69 California, 202; 3faeon v. Haris, 75 Georgia, 761; Terre Haute &c. Railroad v. Rodel, 89
Indiana, 128; Hfarrington v. St. Paul & c. Railroad, 17 Minnesota, 215; Wagner v..Railway Co., 38 Ohio St. 32; A4pveal
of the Borough of Verona, 108 Penn. St. 83; Pennsylvania
Railroad v. Angel, :1 N. J. Eq. (14 Stewart,) 316 ; Chicago,
St. Louis &c. Railroadv. Gates, 120 Illinois, 86.
Xfr. John F. Dillon, (with whom was Mfr. Winslow F. Pierce
on the brief,) for appellee.
MRl. CHiEF JusTicF FULLm
the opinion of the court.

, after stating the case, delivered

We assume upon this record that the complainant" wa&an
abutting owner merely, and that the fee of the street was'in
the municipality for the public, or in the public; that the con-'
struction of the tracks was duly authorized; that they were
laid with due care and skill and in strict accordance with the
authority granted ; and that the road was, properly operated.
And the terms of the ordinance were such in relation to other
persons and companies than the Mitl'Company, and to other
railroads than this, that it is not open to the objection that it
empowered a construction exclusively for private use.
The contention of complainiant is that it was entitled,' under
section 21, Article II of the state constitution, to compensation
for the damage it alleged it had sustained, and that the corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

pany should have been epjoined from the operation of its road
because such compensation had not been .paid..
In Chicago v. Taylor, 125 U. S. 161, which was an action in
trespass on the case, the provision of the constitution of the
State of Illinois, adopted in 1870, that "private property shall
not be taken or damaged for public. use without just compensation," came under consideration in -this court, and, it was
ruled, in concurrence with the interpretation placed upon that
language by the Supreme Court of th6 State, that a recovery
might be had wherever private property had sustained- a substantial injury from the making and use of an improvement
that was public in its character, whether the damage was the
direct result of a physical invasion of the thing owned, or of
the injurious disturbance of its user and enjoyment, as in a
diminution of its market value. The same conclusion was
xeached in Rigney v. City of lhicago, 102 Illinois, 64, where,
among other things, it was said: "In all cases, to warrant a
recovery it must appear there has been some direct physical
disturbance of a right, either public or private, which the
plaintiff enjoys in connection with his property, and which
gives to it an additional value, and that by reasoii of such- disturbance he has sustained a special damage with respect to his
property in excess -of that sustained by the public generally."
Many decisions under similar constitutional provisions are to
the same effect. Reading v. Althouse, 93 Penn. St. 400; Pittsburgh c. Railway v.. Vance, 115 Penn. St. 325; Auman v.
.Philadephia &co.Railroad,133 ,Penn. St. 93; Rot Springs
Railroad v. Williamson 45 Arkansas, 429; Columbus &
Western Railway v. Witherow, 82 -Alabama, 195; Gottschalk
v. Chicago, Burlington &c. Railroad, 14 Nebraska, 550;
Spfncer.v. Point Pleasant Railroad,23 W. Va. 406.
It is -insisted, however, that the settled rule, of decision of
the highest tribunal of Missouri is that the construction and
operation of a steam rixiIroad track in the ordinary~way upon
the streets of-A -municipality is a legitimate use of the street,
and -does not impose a new burden or servitude, and that the
injury which owners of abutting property may suffer, by reason
of such construction and operation, is not of a nature for which

OSBORNE v. MISSOURI PAC

IC RAILWAY.

255

Opinion of the Court,
comnensation is demandable under the constitut.ional provision
in question.
In Julia Building AssocTation v. Bell Yelehone Co., 88
Missouri, 258, a bill for an injunction was filed by an abutting
land owner to restrain the erection and maintenance of telephone poles and wires on the sidewalk. The bill was dismissed and the judgment affirmed at October term, 1885, of
-the Supreme Court, the court holding that when the public
acquires a street in a city, either .by condemnation, grant or
dedication, it may be applied to all purposes consistent with
the proper use of a street; that it is only when the street is
subjected to a new servitude, inconsistent with and subversive
of its proper use, that the'abutting land owner can complain;
that the erection and maintenance of defendants' poles were a
proper use of the street; tfiat it seemed that the owner of adjoining premises could not claim compensation for damages
resulting from such use; and in no event would compensation
be allowed for speculative or contingent damages, although
recovery could be had for injuries resulting from the unskilful
and negligent conduct of the work. And it was observed
in the prevailing opinion that "railroads operated by steam,
are permissible, because such methods of transportation and
travel are among those to which the street may be properly
applied, as not being inconsistent with its free and unrestricted
use."
The court was not unanimous, and it is said by counsel that
the dissenting opiflion is the better law, and that the allusion
to railroads in streets was an obiter dictum; but in the recent
case of -Henry Gauss & Sons fani'fg Co. v. St. Louis, Keokuk & -Northwestern Railway, decided December 13, 1892, 20
S. W. Rep. 658, the precise question was passed upon. This
was a suit to enjoin the defendant from laying a track and
operating a railtoad laterally along Main Street, in the city of
St. Louis, in front of plaintiff's property, until compensation
for damage thereto should be ascertained and paid. A preliminary injunction, which was granted at the commencement
of the suit, was dissolved, and the road had been bui:lt and
was in use when the cause was tried. The petition charged

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

that the plaintiff owned an entire block fronting on JMain
Street, and had thereon a two-8tory and basement factory,
erected for the special purpose and adapted by its construction
for use as a planing mill, sash, door and box factory, and was
used as such; that the building fronted on -ain Street, and was
so constructed that the only front that was adapted for receiv=
ing and shipping lumber from the street was the Main Street
fr ont ; that the defendant threatened and was about to occupy
th street by laying and operating by steam a railway with
double tracks, thereby permanently obstructing the street, and
not leaving space between the tracks and the building sufficient
to permit of the standing of wagons and other vehicles, without
constant danger of collision with, engines and cars passing to
and fro over the tracks, and wholly destroying the use of the
street as a thoroughfare. The damage to the property as
charged consisted of the prevention of the free ingress and
egress to and from the street; noise and smoke; damage from
fires; shaking and vibration of the building; all caused by
the passage of engines and cars over the street in proximity
to the premises.
The court was satisfied that the plaintiff's property had
been depreciated somew]hat in value by reason of the constructipn and operation of the railroad, and the inquiry was
whether the damages thus- inflicted were such as were con.templated by section 21 of Article II of the state constitution.
It was not claimed by plaintiff that there was any physical
injury done to its property or that its possession w,s disturbed; and, it was shown that the street was dedicated without restriction to general use as a highway; that the defendant.
was authorized by the charter and ordinance of the City to lay
its tracks along the street and to operate thereon; and that
the track was laid on the established grade of the street, and
constructed in a careful and skilful manner, and in strict compliance with the requirements of the ordinance. It was conceded by the court that every owner of a lot abutting on a
public street, besides the ownership of the property itself, had
rights appurtenant thereto, which formed a part of the estate,
among which might be named an easenment for the free admis-

OSBORNE

i.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY.

257

Opihion of.the Court.'

sion of light and pure air, and the right of .ingress and egress
to and from the property- that the interest of the lot owner
in the adjacent street was a peculiar interest, which neither.
the local nor the general public could pretend to claim; a
private right in the nature of an incorporeal hereditament
legally attached to the contiguous, ground; an incidental
title to certain facilities- and franchises which was in the
nature of property, 4nd which could no more be appropriated
against the owner's will than any tangible property of which
he might be the owner. And it was held that depriving the
owner of these incorporeal hereditaments by interfering with
their full enjoyment in the appropriation of the street to a
new and different public use than that originally contemplated, would undoubtedly be a damage within the constitutional provision; but the court was of opinion that the laying
of a railroad track in the. street, on grade, and operating the
-road'in the usual manner, was not applying the street to a
new public use which required the payment of compensation
for damage to the property; that when land is dedicated generally, and without restrictions, or condemned for a public
street in a town or city, the owner of the abutting lots who
secures the benefit of the street, and persons also who purchase and improve p/operty thereon, hold their prop'erty
rights subject to all the uses to which the street could be lawfully subjected by. the public; and after quoting with approval
from the majorilty opinioii liu Julia Building Company v.
Telephone Company, the court said: "There has 'been great
diversity of opinion among the courts of this country as to
whether, though under proper legislative authority, laying a
track on the established grade, and operating Ia steam railroad
thereon, in the transaction of commercial business, along a
street, is' subjecting the street to a public use not contemplated
in a general grant or dedication. Whatever the rule may be
elsewhere, this court has been uniform in holding that such a
use is not a perversion of the highway from its original purposes. -Lacklandv.1Railroad,31 Missouri, 180; Porterv. Railway, 33 -Missouri 128; Cross v. Railway, 77 Missouri, 321;
Julia Bldg. Association case, supra; Smith v. Railway, 98
VOL. cxLvn-17

OCTOBEF. TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Missouri, 24:; Railway v. Railway, 97 Missouri, 469; Rude
v. St. Louis, 93 Missouri, 414. .
. It appears from the
evidence that the only substantial damage which was special
to plaintiff and not common to the public, shown by it, consisted in the interference with its free access from the street
to its factory; the olstruction of the light and air across the
open street; smoke, cinders and dust from engine and cars;
noise and jarring of the ground; all caused by the movement
of trains. These may cause damage to and depreciation of
the value of the property, but the damage results from a
legitimate use of the street, and which might have been anticipated by plaintiff as a probable use When it bought its property and erected its improvements." And it was concluded
that, while for any damages that might be caused by the unlawful or negligent maintenance of the tracks in the street,
or by negligent use of engines or movement of trains, defendant would be liable in an action to recover them, plaintiff
had shown no ground for injunction. This decision, althouglh
rendered some years after the entry of the decree under review, must be regarded as an authoritative exposition of the
previous judgments of that court upon the same subject.
As a general rule, this court follows the decisions of the
highest tribunals of a State, upon the construction of its constitution and laws, if they do not conflict with or impair the
efficacy of some provision of the Federal Constitution, or of a
Federal statute; but we are not required to express an opinion
as to the applicability of that rule in this case, as the decree
must be affirmed on other grounds.
Whenever the power of eminent domain is about to be
exercised without compliance with the conditions upon which
the authority for its exercise depends, courts of equity are not
curious in analyzing the grounds upon which they rest their
interposition.
Equitable jurisdiction may be invoked in view of the inadequacy of the legal remedy where the injury is destructive or
of a continuous character or irreparable in its nature; and the
appropriation of private property to public use, under color of
law,. but in fact without authority, is such an invasion of

OSBORNE v. MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY,

259

Opinion of thV Court.

,private rights as may be assumed to be essentially irremediable,
if, indeed, relief may not be awarded ex debitojustitim.
But where there is no direct taking of the estate itself, ill
whole or in part, and the injury complained of is the infliction
of damage in respect to the complete enjoyment thereof, a
court of equity must be satisfied that the threatened damage
is substantial and the remedy at law in fact inadequate before
restraint will be laid upon the progress of a public work. And
if the case made discloses only a legal right to recover damages
rather than to demand 6ompensation, the court will decline to
interfere.
In XAfElroy v. Kansas Uiv, 21 Fed. Rep. 257, which was
an application for an injunction to restrain the grading of a
street in front of the complainant's lot, Mr. Justice Brewer,
then Circuit Judge, considered under what circumstances a
chancellor could grant, such relief. It was ruled that, if the
injury which the complainant would sustain from the act
sought to be enjoined could be fully and easily compensated
at law, while, on the other hand, the defendant would suffer
great damage, andespecially if the public would suffei large
inconvenience, if the contemplated act were restrained, the
injunction should be refused, and the complainant remitted to
his action for damages. If the defendant had an ultimate
right to do the -act squght to -be restrained'; but only upon
some condition precedent, and compliance with the condition
was within'the power of the defendant, the injunction would
almost univers~lly be granted until the condition was complied
with; but if the means of complying with the condition were
not a't defendant's c6mmand, then, the court would adjust its
order so as to give complainant the-substantial benefit of the
condition, while not restraining defendant from the exercise
.of its ultimate rights. Inasmuch as, while the statutes of
Missouri provided for the assessment of damages resulting from
the taking 'of property.for public use, there existed -io provision to attain that result where the property was merely damaged, an injunction was granted, with leave to the defendant
to apply -for the appointment of a board of commissioners
to ascertain and report the damages which complainant would

OCTOBER TERt, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

sustain, upon payment of which the injunction would be vacated.
Assuming, as the Circuit Court did, and as we prefer to do
in disposing of the case upon this record, that if the complainant had sustained damage, it had a cause of action, we,
nevertheless, entirely agree that the bill was properly dismissed.
Evidence was adduced of the extent and character of the
alleged damage, although the Circuit Court did not undertake
to go into the question of amount, and the resultowas that the
court concluded that the use of the track had not seriously
obstructed, and would not in future seriously obstruct, access
to complainant's premises, and that the lessening of the market
or rental value of the property was in any event small; that a
jury might find that no damage had been sustained or that it
•was inconsiderable; and that there was no proceeding which
defendant could take to obtain an assessment of damages, if
any, while the complainant had an adequate and simple
remedy by an action at law.
The prayer was for an unconditional injunction, and although
this was coupled with a. praybr for general relief, a decree
different from that specifically prayed could hardly have been
-awarded under the general prayer, as the averments of the
-bill were not introduced for that purpose; and besides, the,
complainant explicitly disclaimed upon the hearing any desire
for the ascertainment of damages in this proceeding.
Tle statutes of Missouri provided for the assessment of
compensation for the taking of property for public use, but
.not for such assessment where property was merely damaged,
and complainant occupied the position of seeking by an absolute injunction to compel the defendant to pay such amount
as accorded 4ith its own judgment upon that matter. It may
be that if this had been a case where compensation as such was
.demandable, the defendant, by filing a cross-bill, could have
obtained an order such as was entered in _Ielroy v. .ansa8
City, but it is useless to indulge in speculation in this regard.
We are satisfied that -complainant was not entitled to the
relief prayed, and the decree of the Circuit Court is'accordingly
-~

Afjirmed.

