UNITED STATES v. TANNER.
-Statement of the Case.

puted in his favor, and the case be treated as if the time during
which he might have applied, but did not apply, for the
appointment of an administrator, was five months and twenty
days only, yet his delay for that time, being more than thrice
the period of fifty days .next after the debtor's death which
was allowed for the next of kin to obtain administration, was,
upon the facts appearing by this record, -and without' any
suggestion that the plaintiff was ignorant of his brother's
death, clearly unreasonable, and could not. prevent or postpone the running of the statute of limitations.
The defendant below, the plaintiff in error here, is therefore
entitled to judgment upon his demurrer to the petition, unless
the Circuit Court shall see fit to allow an amendment of the
plaintiff's allegations, so as to aver more definitely the leng.th
of time during which the debtor was absent from the State
after the maturity of the note and before his death.
Judgment reversed, and ease remanded to the Circuit Court
forfJurtherproceedings zn conformity with tkts-qpnwn.

UNITED STATES
.AYPEAT

,.

FROM THE COURT

TANER.
0F

AM.

No. 335. Submitted January 3,1893.-Decided March 5, 1893.

A marshal is not entitled to charge "travel in going to serve" process
when taking a prisoner, under sentence, to the place of commitment.
The construction given to an act by the Department charged with the-duty
of enforcing it is material only in case of doubt.

Tais was a petition to recover for services as marshal of
the United States for the Southern District of Illinois in
executing certain warrants of commitment of prisoners to the
penitentiary at Chester, Illinois. The claims were 'for travel
fees in the service of the warrants, and were disallowed- by the
comptroller upom the ground that a. claim for mileage had

OCTOBER TERM, 1802.
Opinion of the Court.

already been allowed for as "transportation" for the deputies
who executed the writs. The fifth finding of fact was that
"prior to or about the first of October, 1885, it had been the
usual practice of United States marshals to charge mileage in
their accounts for going to serve writs of commitment within
their respective districts, six cents a mile each, in addition to ten
ients a mile each, for transportation of themselves or deputies,
prisoners and guards, and such charge when made had been
allowed by the accounting officers of the Treasury until the
date named, when the practice ,was changed, and such mileage
was thereafter not allowed."
Upon this state of facts the court found, as a conclusion of
law that petitioner was entitled to recover the sum of $128.16.
25 Ct. C1. 68. The United States appealed.
AXr Solicitor General for appellants.
.Xr George A. Eing for appellee.
:MRi.

JusTicE

Biowx, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court
This is a claim by a marshal for travel fees in serving warrants of commitment to a penitentiary The claim is made
under that clause of Rev Stat. ยง 829, which allows "for
travel, in going only, to serve any process, warrant, attachment or other writ, including writs of subpoena in civil or
criminal cases, six cents a mile, to be computed from the place
-where the process is returned to the place of service, or when
inore than one person is served therewith, t6 the place of service which is most remote, adding thereto the extra travel
which is necessary to serve it on the others.' An allowance
hWd already been made to petitioner under another clause of
ยง 829, "for transporting criminals, ten cents a mile for himself
and for each prisoner and necessary guard." The effect of the
allowance would be to give the marshal sixteen cents per mile
for his own travel for going from the place where the court is
held to the penitentiary

UIITED STATES v. TAN-NER.
Opmion of the Court.

The delivery of a warrant of commitment to a warden of a
penitentiary is in no sense a service of a process, warrant,
attachment or other writ, within the meaning of the clause
first above cited. The word "process," as used in that clause,
evidently refers to process for bringing persons or property
within the jurisdiction of the court, and not to warrants of
commitment, by virtue of which criminals are transported
from the court to the place of commitment. This is evident
not only from the inclusion of "writs of subpoena in criminal
or civil cases," but from the provision that "where more than
one person is served therewith," travel is allowed "to the place
of service which is most remote, adding thereto the extra travel,
which is necessary to serve it on the others." If a warrant of
commitment can be said to be served at all upon any person,
it is upon the criminal himself, who is transported by authority of such process, rather than upon the jailer, with whom it
is simply deposited, and the fees of the marshal therefor are
manifestly covered by the allowance for the travel of himself,
his prisoners, and guards. Not only does the transportation
of a prisoner imply a travel in company with him, but section
829 expressly allows a fee of fifty cents for "every commitof a prisoner," which implies the deposit of a
ment
warrant of commitment with the jailer. In some jurisdictions
the prisonjr is committed and held under a certified copy of
the sentence, and no commitment at all is used.
This question was not involved in the decision of this court,
or of the court below, in the case of United States v. Harmon,
14T U. S. 268, 43 Fed. Rep. 560.
If it were a question of doubt, the construction given to this
clause prior to October, 1885, might be decisive, but, as it is
clear to us tbat-this construction was erroneous, we think it is
not too late to overrule it. Unsted States v Graham, 110 -U. S.
219, Szoft Co. v Unsted States, 105 U. S. 691. It is only in
cases of doubt that the construction given to an act by the
department charged with the duty of enforcing it becomes
material.
The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be
Reversed. with directions to dism8ss thepetition.

