TA BLIN v. WESTERN LAND COMPANY.
Statement of the Case.

TEALMBLIN v. WESTERN LAND COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPRERE COURT OF TEE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 1042.

Submitted January 23, 1893.-Decided February 6,1893.

There must be at least col br of ground for the averment of a Federal
question in a case brought here by writ of error to the highest court
of a State, in order to give this court jurisdiction.
When aline of a land grant railroad as located does not satisfy the terms
of the granting act, whether the Land Department may not consider it
as a temporary and provisional one, quxere.
A reservation of public land from entry, made by the Department of the
Interior as 'coming within the limits of a railroad grant, operates to
withdraw the land from homestead entries, even if found afterwards not
to come within such limits.
A valid homestead entry could not be made upon indemnity lands of the
Sioux City & St. Paul Railroad Company after. the patent from the
United States to the State of Iowa, issued June 17, 1873, under the act
of May 12, 1864, 13 Stat. 72, c. 84.

Tuis case is submitted on a motion to dismiss or afflirm.
The facts are these: Defendant in error, the Western Land
Company, on August 24, 1887, filed its petition in the District
Court of O'Brien County, Iowa, to recover from the defendant
Hamblin, now plaintiff in error, the possession of the north:
east quarter of section 1, township 95 north, range 41 west,
fifth principal meridian. Defendant appeared and answered;
a trial was had, and on April 23, 1888, judgment was rendered
in favor of the plaintiff, the We stern Land Company, for the
possession of the property. From this judgment Hamblin
appealed to the Supreme Court of the State, which, on February 10, 1890, affirmed the judgment of the District Court.
Thereupon Hamblin sued out a writ of error from this court.
The Land Company's record title consisted of a patent from
the United Siates to the State of Iowa, dated June 17, 1873,
conveying the land to the State for the use and benefit of the
Sioux City and St. Paul Railroad Company; a decree of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of Iowa, of May 18, 1882, (Chicago & St. Paul Railway v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Sioux City &c.Railroad,10 Fed. Rep. 435,) modified cn May
21, 1886, in pursuance of a mandate from this court, (Sioux
City & St. Paul Railroad v. Chicago & St. Paul Railway,
117 U. S. 406,) by which the title of this land was adjudged
held by the State in trust for the Chicago, Milwaukee and St.
Paul Railway Companty; a patent from the State of Iowa to
the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company, of
date September 27, 1886; and a warranty deed from the latter
como3any to the Western Land Company, of date May 26,
1886.
Hfamblin's claim to the land rests upon the fact that in
February,, 1884, nearly eleven years after the issue of the
patent, he took possession and made application to enter it
under the homestead laws of the United States. This application apparently failed, and he made a second application in
September, 1885. He built a house upon the land, and made
other improvements, and has resided on it, since March, 1884.
It does Pot appear that the Land Department ever recognized
any right in him to enter the land; so that his only claim is
based upon the fact of occupation, made, as he says, with a view
to entering it as a homestead.
2fr. John S. Monk for the motion.
.21r. W. L. Jy opposing.
.JusTioE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
M

It is doubtful whether there is a Federal question in this
case. A real, and not a fictitious, Federal question is essential
to the jurisdiction of this court over the judgments of state
courts. Irillingarv. Hartupee, 6 Wall. 258; NAew Orlians'v.
-Yew Orleans Water TV-orks Co., 142 U. S. 79, 87. In the
latter case it was said -that "the bare Averment of a Federal
question is not in all cases sufficient. It must not be wholly
without foundation. There must be at least color of ground
for such averment, otherwise a Federal question might be set
up in almost any case, and the jurisdiction of this court
invoked simply for the purpose of delay."

IAMBLII

v. WESTERNI

LAND COMPANY.

Opinion of the Court.

Now, in ordinary cases, it would not be doubted that a party
entering upon vacant land, the title to which had been conveyed from the general government by patent to an individual,
could not create a Federal question such as to give this court
jurisdiction over the judgment of the highest court of the,
State, by simply averring that such possession was taken with
a view of entering the land under the homestead laws of the
United States, and that he went through the form of making
application to the local land office for permission to make such
entry; for if he could, as is suggested in the foregoing quotation from 142 U. S., almost any case in ejectment could be
taken from the Supreme Court of a State to this. In order
that such claim of the party in possession may raise a genuine
Federal question, there must be some reason to believe that
the apparent legal title transferred by the patent from the
United States was wrongfully conveyed, and that the real title
in fact remains in the government; and whether there be such
shadow upon the legal title of the Land Company, that the
denial of Hamblin's right to enter the land as a homestead'
presents a genuine rather than a fictitious Federal question, is
a doubtful matter. We must therefore investigate not merely_
the instruments by which the legal title passed to the Land
Company, but the legislation and proceedings claimed to give
authority- therefor.
On May 12, 1864, Congress passed, an act granting lands to
the State of Iowa, to aid in the construction of two railroads.
13 Stat. ', c. 84. So much of the first section as is material,
for the question here involved is as follows: "That there be,
and is hereby, granted to the State of Iowa, for the purpose
of aiding in the construction of a railroad from Sioux City, in
said State, to the south line of the State of Minnesota, at such
point as the said State of Iowa may select between the Big
Sioux and the west fork of the Des Moines River; also to saidState for the use and benefit of the McGregor Western Railroad Company, for the purpose of aiding in the construction of a
railroad from a point at or near the foot of Main Street, South
McGregor, in said State, in a westerly direction, by the most
practicable route, on or near the forty-third parallel of north lat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

itude, until it shall intersect the said road running from Sioux
City to the Minnesota State line, in the county of O'Brien, in
said State." It will be noticed that the road of the McGregor
Company was to proceed westerly, on or near the forty-third parallel, to an intersection with the Sioux City road, in the county
of O'Brien. On August 30, 1861,that company filed in the
General Land Office a map of the definite location of its line.
This line extended westwardly to a point in section 19, township 95, range 40, in O'Brien County, where it was then
expected that a junction would be formed with the Sioux City
road. In July, 1867, the Sioux City Company filed its map
of definite location. Both of these maps were approved.
The line of the Sioux City Company ran through the northwest corner of O'Brien County, and the western terminus of
the McGregor Company's line, as located, was- about nine
miles south and twelve miles east of the point at which the
Sioux City line entered O'Brien County on'the west. The
McGregor line did not, therefore, intersect with the Sioux
City line in O'Brien County, nor come nearer to it than 17 or
18 miles. It will be noticed that, under the statute, the Sioux
City line was not" to be located so as to intersect with the
McGregor' line, but the latter was to proceed in a westerly
direction and intersect the Sioux City line. In other words,.
the Sioux City Company had the primary right of location,
the McGregor Company the subordinate, and the latter company .was to locate its line in a westerly direction so as to
connect with the Sioux City line wherever located in O'Brien
County. So, although the McGregor Company's map of
definite location was approved when filed, -yet,after the filing
and approval of the map of definite location bf the Sioux City
Company's line, the location made by the McGregor Company
was questioned as not in conformity with the terms of the act;
and on September 2, 1869, a new map of definite location was
filed, and this has since been recognized by the Land Depart-,
ment as the true line of definite location. On March 15, 1870,
and May 11, 1870, the local land offices were instructed by the
Commissioner of the General Land Office to recognize this as
the true line, and. to restore to the public domain such lands

HAMBLIN

v. WESTERN LAND COMPANY.

535

Opinion of the Court.
reserved upon the location in 1864 as did not come within the
ten-mile limit of the location of 1869. In other -words, so far
as it could, the Land Department set aside the location made
in 1864, and approved and adopted that made in 1869. The
land in controversy is within ten miles of the line of the
McGregor Company's line, as located in 1869; but is west of
the terminus of the McGregor Company's line, as located in
1864r, and, therefore, not within the place or indemnity limits
as determined by that location. It is also within the indemnity limits of the Sioux City Company's line. It appears from
the recitals in the patent to the State, in 1873, that the land
in controversy was selected as indemnity land for the Sioux
City Company, and was patented to the State for the use and
benefit of that company. With reference to the subsequent
proceedings, it is sufficient to say that the Chicago, Milwaukee
and St. Paul Railway Company suebeeded, under legislation of
the State 9 f Iowa, to the rights of the McGregor Company, and
constructed its road on nearly the line of 1869, and so as to
intersect with the Sioux City road; that the litigation in the
Circuit Court was between the Sioux City Company and the
Milwaukee Company; that the outcome of that litigation was
an adjudication of the rights of the Milwaukee Company
to this land; and that, in pursuance of that litigation, the
legal title thereto was conveyed by the State to the Milwaukee
Company.
Now, the contention of plaintiff in error is, that after the
approval by the Land Department of the map of definite location, filed in 1864, by the McGregor Company, the powers of
that company in respect to a location were exhausted, and as
authority therefor reference is made to the cases of 'Fan rycek
v. Znevale, 106 U. S. 360, 666, and Walden v. R5zevals, 114
U. S.373. In the former of these cases this court said: "But
when a route is-adopted by the company and a map designating it is filed with the Secretary of the Interior, and accepted
by that officer, the route is established; it is, in the language
of the act, 'de.finitely fixed,' and cannot be the subject of
future change, sb as to affect the grant, except upon legislative consent." Congress never having assented to a. change,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

it is claimed that the only valid location was that in 1864, and
that the land in controversy, not being coterminous with the
line as then established, never came within the terms of the'
grant, but remained absolutely the property of the government, notwithstanding the error of the ministerial officers of
the government in executing a patent to the State. It may
be observed in reply, first, that in all the cases in which this
question of the finality of a location has been before this
court,, thq line as located conformed to and satisfied all the
terms of the granting act, and the decision was that such a
line, havingbeen once definitely located, could not be changed;
while in the'case at bar, the line as located in 1864 did nct
satisfy the terms of the act, because it failed to intersect in
O'Brien County with that of the Sioux City Company. Of
course, until the line of the Sioux City Company was definiteljr located, it was impossible for the McGregor 'Company
to determine where it could intersect with it. And it may
be that the line of 1864 was justly considered as only a temporary'and provisional one; so at least it seems to have been
regarded 'by the Land Department, and we are not prepared
to say -that its decision was not correct.
But it is unnecessary to decide, and we do not rest the case
upon this question. ' It is referred to as perhaps throwing such
a shadow upon the record title of the Land Company, as to
justify us in holding that a real and not fictitious Federal
question was presented, for on other grounds the ruling of
the Supreme Court of Iowa was unquestionably correct. In
the first place, whether the location of the line in 1869 was
of any validity. or not, it was in fact accepted by the Land
Department, and by the letters of "March 15 and May 11, 1870,
the land in controversy was, with others, withdrawn to satisfy
the grani as determined by that location, and such a reservation by the Interior Department, it is well settled, operates
to withdraw' the land from entry under the pregmption or
homestead laws. Tolcott v. Des .roines Co., 5 Wall. 681;
TWolsey v. Chapman, 101 U. S. 755; Bullard v. Des Aloines &
'Fort ,Dodge 1ailroad,122 UT. S. 167; United States v. Des
Moiie8 Navigation d-c. Co., 142 'U. S. 510. As therefore the

HAMLIN v. WESTERN LAND COMBPANY.

537

Opinion of the Court.

land was so situated that Hamblin could not make a valid
homestead entry, it follows that he is not in a position to
question the conveyance of the legal title by the patent from
the government.
But, further, the land was within the indemnity limits of
the Sioux City road; it was therefore land which might be
selected by that company to supply any deficiency in the
granted lands; and the patent from the United States shows
that it was so selected; and it was patented to the Stat6 for
the use and benefit of that company. There is nothing in the
record ti show that such selection was not properly made,
or that the land was not rightfully conveyed to the State for
the benefit of that company, unless it be the decree of the
Circuit Court, and that decree, if conclusive in this litigation,
establishes the validity of the line located in 1869, and the
rights of the Milwaukee Company to the land by virtue of
the grant and that location. Of course, Hamblin is in no
position to insist upon any rights of the Sioux City Company,
and the case stands thus: The patent to the State for the use
and benefit of the Sioux City Company -was valid, unless the
location in 1869 of the. McGregor Company's line was valid;
if the latter was valid, then the patent should have been
issied to the State for the benefit of the Milwaukee Company.
The question of right as between the two railroad companies
has been settled by judicial decision, 'and Hamblin is in no
position to question the force and effect' of that decision.. The
judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa was unquestionably

right.

