LYTLE v. LANSING,
Statement of the Case.

The decree of the Circuit Court, except as to section 66,
is, therefore,
Reversed, and the case r'emandedforfurtherproceedingsin

conformity with this opinion.

LYTLE v. LANSING.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DITRICT. OF NEW YORK.
Wo. 79. Argued December 6, 7, 1892.-

Decided January 3, 1893.

When negotiable bonds of a municipality, issued in aid of a railroad company, are void as between the railroad company and the municipality,
the burden is upoii the holder to show that he, or some one through
whom he obtained title to them, was a bonafide purchaser for a ialuable
consideration.
The settled rule in equity that.a purchaser without notice, to be entitled to
protection, must not only be so at the time of the contract or conveyance, but also at the time of the payment of the purchase money, applies
to the purchase of negotiable municipal bonds.
It Is the duty of one who purchases municipal bonds, knowing that the
municipality is contesting its liability on them, to make inquiries, and
'the failure to do so will Ibe held to be a wilful closing of his ears to
information.
The several holdings of the bonds which form the subject of this litigation
since they passed out of the railroad company examined, and held, to be
either as collateral for a debt which has been paid, or as fictitious, for a
real owner who is affected with notice of their invalidity.

THIS was an appeal from a decree requiring the appellant
to surrender for cancellation seventy-five bonds of one thousand dollars each, purporting to have been executed by the
town of Lansing, and dismissing a cross-bill filed by Lytle to
compel the payment of the overdue coupons attached to such
bonds.
By an act of the legislature of New York, passed in 1869,
Laws of 18691 2203, c. 907, it was provided that whenever a
majority of the taxpayers of any municipal corporation, owning or representing a majority of the taxable property, should
make application to the county judge, stating their desire.that

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

such corporation should issue its bonds to an amount not exceeding 20 per cent of the taxable property, and invest the
same in the stock or bonds of such railroad company as might
be named in the petition, it became the duty of such 6ounty
judge to order a notice of such petition to be published, and to
take proof as to the number of taxpayers joining in the petition, and the amount of taxable property represented by .the
petitioners. In pursuance of this act, in December, 1870,
petitions of certain taxpayers of the town of Lansing were
presented to the county judge of Tompkins County, who
caused the proper notice to be published, proceeded to take
proofs, and on March 20, 1871, adjudged and determined
that the petition was duly signed by a majority of the taxpayers of the town of Lansing; that the petitioners represented a majority of the taxable property; that the sum of
$75,000, mentioned in the petition, did not exceed 20 per cent
of the whole taxable property of the town; and that all the
requirements of law respecting the issuing of town bonds, to
the amount of $75,000, and for the investment of the same in
the stock or bonds, or both, of the "Cay u ga Lake Railroad
Company," had been fully complied with. He thereupon
appointed three freeholders and taxpayers of said town as
commissioners, whose-duty it would be to execute such bonds
and to discharge all such other duties as should be required of
them as such commissioners. On March 27, 1871, a writ of
certiorariwas sued out of the Supreme Court to review these
proceedings, and in May, 1872, the general term of such court
ordered and adjudged that all the proceedings in relation to
the issuing. of these bonds should be reversed, annulled and
held for naught, for the reasons that the Cayuga Lake 'Railroad Company. was not a legal corporation ' that the articles
of association failed to state the name of each county through
or into which the road was intended to be made; that no
-valid charter was produced before the county judge; that the
petition did not direct whether the money was to be invested
in stock or bonds; and that it was not shown that a majority
of the taxpayers had signed the petition. People v. Fan
Valkenburgh, 63 Barb. 105.

LYTLE v. LANSING.
Statement of the Case.

In some way - though exactly how did not clearly appear
- the railroad company induced the commissioners to issue
and deliver to them these bonds, for which they received a
certificate for an equivalent amount of railroad stock. The
allegation of the bill in this connection was that the officers of
the railroad company fraudulently and by false pretences procured the commissioners to deliver the bonds, by representing
and inducing them to believe that their action would not in
any way injure or affect the town, and also by presenting to
them an undertaking of the company to indemnify and save
them harmless from the consequences of their act. It was
further alleged that the stock of the company received in
exchange for these bonds was of no value; that the company
had ceased to do business, and was insolvent; and that the
town was ready to deliver up the stock in exchange for the
cancellation of the bonds.
It appears that these bonds, when delivered to the railroadcompany, were pledged by it to Leonard, Sheldon & Foster, a
banking firm in New York City, as collateral security for a
loan of $50,000 to the railroad company; that this loan was
afterwards transferred to Elliott, Collins & Co., bankers at
Philadelphia, to whom the bonds were also turned over as collateral; that this latter company also -had authority from the
railroad company to sell them for the company at the price of
from seventy to eighty cents on the dollar; and that in February, 1873, the firm sold them, deducted from the proceeds
the amount of their loan, and left a balance of $4745.83 to the
credit of the railroad company. It did not appear to whom
Elliott, Collins & Co. sold the bonds; but subsequently an
action was brought in the United States Circuit Court against
the town upon these bonds by one John J. Stewart, in which'
action a verdict was rendered on December 19, 1878, for the
defendant. The judgment in favor of the town was afterwards, and on June 30, 1882, affirmed by~this court. Stewart
v. Lansing, 104 U. S. 505. In February, 1882, the bonds
appear to have been sold by Stewart to one Brackenridge, who
afterwards, and in May, 1884, sold them to Lytle, the plaintiff
in this suit, for an interest in a ranch.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

This action was begun by the town of Lansing in the
Supreme Court of the State of New York, in May, 1887, for
the purpose of obtaining the annulment and cancellation of the
bonds, compelling the defendant Lytle to deliver them up for
cancellation, and also enjoining him: from transferring them
pending the suit. Lytle removed the action to the Circuit
Court of the United States, and filed a cross-bill to compel the
payment of the bonds. In March, 1889, the court rendered a
decree in favor of the town of Lansing, 38 Fed. Rep. 204, from
which Lytle took an appeal to this court.
Mr. Thoma8 G. 8hearma, (with whom was .Atr. Everett P.
Wheeker on the brief,) for appellant.

.M,. T Y Howland for appellee.
MR. JusTrmc

BRoww, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
2'As the bonds in this case, though good upon their face, were
undoubtedly void as between the railroad company and the
town of Lansing, it is incumbent upon the defendant Lytle to
show that he, or some one through whom he obtained title to
them, was a bona Xde purchaser for a valuable consideration.
Orleans v. .Platt,99 U. S. 676.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of New
York, holding these bonds to be invalid, must be respected by
this court, not only because it passed upon the validity of acts
done in alleged pursuance of a statute, but because in a collateral proceeding of this kind its binding effect could only be
avoided by showing a total lack of jurisdiction on the part of
the court.. When these bonds were before this court in the
case of Stewart v. Lansing, 104 U. S. 505, it was held that
the judgment of the Supreme Court reversing and annulling
the order of the county judge invalidated them; that if they
had not been delivered before, they could not be afterwards;
and that the judgment of reversal was equivalent between those
parties to a refusal by the county judge to make. the original
order. It was further held that, the actual illegality of the

LYTLE v. LANSING.

63

Opinion of the Court.

paper being. established, it was incumbent upon the plaintiff to
show that he occupied the position of a bonaldae holder before
he could recover. In such a case, however, the plaintiff fulfils
all the requirements of the law by showing that either he, or
some person through whom he derives title, was a bona .Rde
purchaser for value withput notice. Douglas County Cornmissioners v. Bolles, 94 U. S. 104; .ontelair v. Ramsdell, 107
U. S. 1417; Scotland County v. Hill, 132 U. S. 107.
We proceed to examine the title of the several holders of
these bonds from the time they were delivered to the railroad
company, which of course was not a bona /ideholder, to the
time they came into possession of the plaintiff.
1. Leonard, Sheldon & Foster. These were New York
bankers, to whom the bonds were pledged as security for a
loan of $50,000 to the railroad company; they also received
them with power and instruction from the company to sell
them. It is sufficient to say in this connectiQn that this firm.
never purchased the bonds; that they continued to be the
property of the railroad company while in their hands; and
that while, doubtless, they would have been protected as bona
Jide holders to the amount of their advances, they never took
title to the bonds, and when they. transferred them to Elliott,
Collins & Co., and received from them the amount of their
advances, they transferred them as the property of the railroad
company, and their interest in them from that time wholly
ceased.
2. -Elliott,Collins & Co. took up the loan of the prior firm
upon the written order of the treasurer of the company, and
stood in the same position. they had occupied. They subsequently sold the bonds for the railroad company for $54,337.50,,
paid their loan to the amount of $49,591.67, and credited thb
.company With a balance of $4745.83. It does not appear to
whom they sold them, but it does appear that they never took
title to themselves. . It is significant in this connection that, in
the suit of Stewart v. Laning, Mr. Elliott, the senior member
of the firm, stated*:"' We did not sell.the bonds at all;
.
* they were negotiated by Mr. Delafield,'; (the treasurer of the
company,) -" eitherpersonally or by letter."

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

3. John J.Stewart appears as the next holder of these bonds.
There is io evidence whatever to show how Stewart, who lived
in New Orleans, became possessed of them, or even that he
paid value for them, or tlhat he took them without notice of
their original invalidity. It does appear, however, that a suit
against the town was brought in his name to recover the
amount of certain overdue coupons; that judgment went for
the defendant; and that such judgment was affirmed by this
court in Stewart v. Lansing, 104 U. S. 505. It was held by
this court in that case that it was clearly shown that, although
Elliott, Collins & Co. "parted with" the bonds, they did not
sell them, nor was the sale negotiated 'by the firm, and that
the bonds only passed through their hands upon terms which
had been agreed upon by others; that Stewart, the plaintiff,
was not known to any of the witnesses examined; that no one
had ever seen him; and that the sale, if actually made, was at
an enormous discount. Under these circumstances, it was held
that there was no such evidence of lona.Rde ownership in the
plaintiff as would require the case to be submitted to the jury.
The only additional testimony in this case with regard to the
ownership of Stewart tends to show that he was an actual person, well known in New Orleans, and living there. Although
he appears to have been living when the testimony was taken,
no effort seems to have been made to secure his deposition.
There is nothing tending to show that he was a bona ride purchaser for value.
4. George IT Brackenridge, president of the National -Bank
of San Antonio, Texas,-claims to have purchased these bonds
of John J. Stewart, giving him therefor a cheque for $50,000
on the Louisiana National Bank. It is somewhat singular that
this cheque was payable to and endorsed by James J. Stewart,
and no explanation is given why, if the sale were made by
John, the consideration was paid to James. Nor was the
cheque produced by the witness himself, but by the cashier of
the bank ' upon which it was drawn. In the.ordinary course of
business cheques ate returned by th6 bank to the drawer,'but in
this case the cheque was produced by the bank five or six.years
after it was drawn. Mr. S3ackenridge says there vas no

LYTLE v. LANSING.
Opinion of the Court.

special agreement for the purchase of the bonds; that he
understood they were for sale, and had been notified that he
could purchase them; that at the time he gave the cheque the
bonds w-.ce delivered to him in Stewart's office in New Orleans;
that the conversation with Stewart made very little impression
upon him at the time; and that he had not the-slightest idea
that the bonds were invalid, and believed "they were like some
San Antonio bonds that were held void in the state courts, but
when sued on in the Federal courts they were declared legal
and valid." He further stated that he had dealt heavily in
Texas bonds, but had never bought any municipal bonds from
other States until he bought these; and that he was not
acquainted in Tompkins County before he purchased them.
He was not able to state even the year he bought them of
Stewart. He swears he did not open the package in which
they were delivered to -him, even after he had returned with
them to San Antonio, and that he supposes the coupons were
attached to the bonds. He subsequently cut off some of the
coupons, and two actions appear to have been brought by'him
upon them. Upon his examination in one of these prior cases,
he stated that he purchased them upon the recommendation of
Mr. Stillman of New York, and that, at the price at which
they were offered, he thought they were a good purchase; that
he did not know whether, in recommending the bonds, Stillman was serving himself or was serving him, and did not know
whether they belonged to him or some one else; that his correspondence with Stillman was by letters, which he was unable
to produce; that he gave $50,000 for the $75,000 of bonds with
$26,000 of dishonored coupons attached; and that he thought
he was buying a bond that was perfectly good in the Federal
courts, but that recovery in the state courts would be doubtful.
Upon this examination he stated that he left the bonds in the
Louisiana National Bank for several months; then took them
out personally, carried them to New York, took them to .Mr.
Stillman,'who had recommended him to buy them, to know
whether he bought them for his, Stillman's account, or for
his own. "At the time I bought them I did not know whether
it was for my account or whether he wAnted some interest in
VoL. CXLVH-5

OCTOBER TERM 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

them." Stillman assured him the bonds were perfectly good,
but would not say positively whether he should keep them for
his own account or-not. - He says he wanted a definite understanding on the subject, but does not seem to have secured it.
He subsequently put them. in the hands of attorneys in New
York to .whom he had been recommended by Stillman.

The substance of this testimony is that Mr. Brackenridag
Went through the form of purchasing these bonds of .Stewart,
ald gave him a check for $50,000 for them; but the testimony
leaves but little doubt that the purchase was a mere form, and
was m~ade upon the advice of Stillman, and in pursuance.of correspondence which was not produced. It is incredible that a
man should purchase this large amount of bonds for half their
face value without, looking at them oriven notid!ng whether,
they were signed or sealed, without making 'ua7y inquiries With
regard to the responsibility of thje town, or the circumstances,
under which the bonds were issued, the non-payment of the
overdue coupops, or the title of the person' (to him an entire
stranger) through whom he purchased them. His -subse-,
quently taking them to New Y6rk and asking Stillhian
whether he purchased them for his, Stillman'p, account, or on
his own, indicates very clearly that this Wa never intended
as a bone fide investment by. Brackenridge, If the bonds
were valid at all, he must bave- known' they wereworth very
nearly, if not quite, their face value, 'nd the very fact thatbonds to this large amount were bffered-for sale at ,this large
discount, at a place two thousand miles from where'they were
issued, was of itself a circumstance calculated to Arouse suspicion of their validity in the mind of an -person of ordinary
,Intelligence.
"5. 7ohn T. LytZe, the plaintiff. Lytle purchas
the bonds
of Brackenridge. He is, and has been since 186.0,M stock-raiser

in Medina County, Texas, and prior to May, 1;84, had Acquired a tract of forty, thousand acres of land on the Prio
River, where he pastured some 2500 cattle. The tract was
worth $4 per acre, and he owned a half interest with one
.,:McDaniel. He had been intimately acquainted with Brackenridge since 1871, and, in a conversation in 1884; agreed t6o sell

LYTLE v. LAKSING.
Opinion of th

Court.

him one-third of his interest in the Frio property for these
$75,000 of bonds. lie made no inquiry with regard to the
bonds, but was told by Mr. Brackenridge that they were good.
The bonds were delivered to him at the San Antonio National
Bank, and Lytle gave him a receipt for the one-third interest
in the property. This was six or eight weeks after the agreement was made. He cut off the July coupons in time for
presentation for payment, and the January coupons as they
became due, and sent them .tothe attorneys*in New York.to
whom Mr. Stillman had recommended Mr. Brackenridge.
This was the last time he saw the bonds. The Frio property
was subsequently conveyed to the San Antonio Ranch Company. It does not appear upon what day the deed wag made,
but as the company was not organized or chartered until January 29, 1885, it must be presumed that it was not before that
time. One-third of the stock in this company was issued to
Mr. Brackenridge, who was made president. Brackenridge,
he says, retained no interest in the bonds.
Upon cross-examination, he says the bargain was consummated at the first interview; that ten or fifteen days thereafter
he gave Brackenridge a receipt for the bonds in payment for
the one-third interest in the ranch, and they were then transferred to his credit, though not actually produced. Upon the
same day, and some two or three hours thereafter, he saw the
bofids for the first time; there were coupons upon them, but
none that were matured; he gave them to the cashier, and
told him to take cdre of them for him, and he has not seen
them since he cut off the coupons for transmission to his
attorneys.. In the summer or fall of 1884 he received a letter
from his attorneys, informing him of some difficulty with
regard to the bonds, when Mr. Brackenridge told him he had a
suit pending about the coupons. lHe says he first learned that
the town claimed to have a defence to these bonds at the time
he cut off the coupons, which was about six weeks or two
months after the bonds were delivered to him-by Brackenridge;- he further states that .Brackenridge had an interest
with him in another ranch, or rather cattle, worth $180,000,
the title to which stood in the name of tLytle & Co., a partner-

OCTOBER TERM, .1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ship. The Frio ranch cost Lytle and McDaniel $66,000, and
was deeded to the San Antonio Ranch Company, a corporation -with a capital stock of $500,000, of which Brackenridge
took one-third, less $60,000, which was taken out in the matter of the purchase. of the property that belonged to Lytle
and McDaniel before the formation of this company, in which
,Brackenridge had no interest.
Mr. Brackenridge swears that he wanted an interest in the
Frio ranch, as it was one of the best in the country, and told
plaintiff it would be better for him to take a third interest,
*and offered to give him these bonds; that he considered them
good and worth as much as the property. He finally accepted
the proposition. He gave practically the same account of
what took place at the time that the plaintiff did; that the
property was subsequently turned over to the San Antonio
Ranch Company, in which he received stock to the amount of
$60,000. His testimony also indicates that, prior to the purchase of the Frio property, he had a third interest in cattle
worth $180,000, haviig assisted Lytle and MdDaniel to purchase thb same by a contribution of $60,000. These cattle,
as well as the Frio ranch, made up the capital of the Ranch
Company, which was valued at $500,000.
In view of the fact that a prior suit was brought upon
coupons of these bonds, which was unsuccessful, and that an
effort has undoubtedly been made by some one who is or was
interested in them to get them into the hands of a bonaftde
purchaser, it is natural that their alleged ownership -should be
]ooked upon with some suspicion,.and the circumstances under
which they came into the hands of the present holder should
be critically examined, and all the testimony upon the subject
of his lonaides carefully scanned. It is certainly an unusual
proceeding for a stock farmer to trade the bulk of his property
for bonds about which he knows nothing, and which he does
not take the trouble to look at, upon the bare assurance of his
vendor that they are good, though such, vendor be his own
banker, with whom he had been on intimate terms for years.
According to his story, the sale was merely an off-hand affair,
not preceded by any of the negotiations which usually accom-

LYTLE v. LANSING.
Opinion of the Court.

pany purchases of large amounts of land - the whole thing
being a mere suggestion on the part of Brackenridge that he
would like an interest in the ranch, and an instant acceptance
of the proposition by Lytle. In his own words : "He said he
bad so many bonds -he said he had $75,000 of bonds that
he would give me for a third interest in my ranch -in the
Frio ranch. He saia the bonds were good. I told him all
right; I would sell him the third interest. -e said all right;
all that was'gaid."
consider it a trade." "That was
It is significant of the carelessness with which the trade was
conducted, that a receipt was given for "county bonds" as.
"part payment for a one-third interest in our Frio ranch and
stock located on the Frio River," and was signed by "Lytle
and hfcDanielg," when the bonds were not county bonds, the
payment was in full, the sale did not inblude the stock, and
the transaction was with Lvtle alone. After he had cut the
coupons off he returned the bonds to the bank, where he supposed they remained ever since, though, at the time he was
sworn in New York, they were produced by his attorneys and
identified by him.
Granting that all these peculiarities may be explained by
the confidence which an inexperienced farmer might repose in
a friend of long standi.ng, his own testimony shows that, in
the latter part of the summer or in the fall of 1884, he heard
from his attorneys in New York that there was some difficulty
about the bonds, nd that he then talked the matter over with
Mr. Brackenridge, who told him that he had a suit pending
about some of the coupons. And again he says: "We have
talked the matter over, as I have said, at different times. I
expect he explained it all to me?' While he does not state
fully the scope of his information, be was undoubtedly apprised of the fact that the town claimed a defence to the
bonds, and that a suit upon the coupons was being contested.
It is singular as matter of fact, and fatal to a recovery as
matter of law, that the plaintiff did not act upon the information thus received, and at once repudiate the transaction, and
refuse to consummate the sale by a deed of the property to
the Ranch Company. Instead of that, he seems to have re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ceived the announcement with the utmost unconcern, as if it.
were a matter in which he had no interest, and, some time
subsequet to the 28th of January following, he made a deed
of the pr6operty to the Ranch Company. He made no com-,
plaint of having been misled by Brackenridge, although no
court, under 'the circumstances, Would have enforced the con,tract of May 24, 1884, even if it were valid under the statute
ofIAs
frauds.
early "as 1823, it was held by this court in TWormley
v.
Wormley, 8 Wheat..421, 449, to-be "a settled rule in equity
that a purch~ser without notice, to be entitled to protection,
-nust not onl r be s~p
at the time of the contract or conveyance,
but at the fime of the payment of the -purchase money."
Such is undoubtedly the law. Swayze v. Burke, 12 Pet. 11 ;
Ekourvil.y. Yaisk, 3 P. Wins. 306; Paul v. Fulton, 25 Missouri, 156-,;Dugav
,4V.
6thei, 3 Blackford, 245; Patten v.
.Moore, 32 N. H. 382; Blanciard-v. Tyler, 12 Michigan, 339;
Palmer v. Villiams, 24 Michigan, 328; Jackson v. Cadwell,
1 Cowen, 622. / It is insisted, however, that this principle has
no application to the purchase of negotiable instruments like
the bonds in question. We kiiow of no such distinction, however, and in the ease of -Dresserv. .Missouri6 Iowa Railway
Construction Co.; 93 U. S. 92, the', rule was expressly applied
to a purchaser of negotiable paper. 'In that case the plaintiff
purchased the notes in' contr 6 versy, and paid $500 as part of
the consideration before notice of,any fraud in the contract;
and it was held that if, after receivifig notice of the fraud, he
paid the balance due -ipon the notes,, he was" only protected"
pro-tanto'; that' is, to the amount paid before he received
noUice; citing Weaver v. Barden, 49 N. Y. 286; Crandall v.
Vickery, 45 Barb. 156'; Allaire g. 'ar&Aorn, 1 Zabr. (21
N. J. Law,) 665.
While the notice received .by the plaintiff may not have
gone to the extent of informing him of the particular facts
showing the invalidity of the bond$, he was informed that the
town was contesting its liability, and that Brackenridge himself was in litigation with it over the payment of the coupons.
Receivine this information as he did,. not oiftlfrom his vendor,

LYTLE v. LANSING.
Opinion of the Court.-

from his own attorneys, from whom he could have learned
all the facts by inquiry, it is mere quibbling to say, that
he had no notice that the bonds were invalid. While purchasers of negotiable securities are not chargeable with constructive notice of the pendency of a'suit affecting the title or
validity of the securities, it has never been doubted, as was
said in Scotland County v. Iill, 112 U. S. 183, 185, that those
who buy such securities from litigating parties with actual
notice of a suit, do so at their peril, and must abide the result
the same as the parties from whom they got their title. Under
the circumstances, it was bad faith or wilful ignorance under
the rule laid down in Goodman v. Simonds, 20 fHow. 343, and
-Murrayv. Lardner, 2 Wall. 110, to forbear making further
inquiries. No rule of law protects a purchaser who wilfully
closes his ears to information, or refuses to make inquiry when
circumstances of grave suspicion imperatively demand it.
Upon the whole, it is impossible to avoid the conclusion
that the purchases of these bonds by Brackenridge and Lytle
were never made in good faith, but were merely fictitious, and
that their real ownership is still in some one, who is affected
with notice of their invalidity, and has 6ndeavored by feigned
transfers to get them into the hands of some one who can
pose before the court as a bona~fde purchaser.
The judgment of the court below is therefore

-but

