LUXTON v. NORTH RIVER BRIDGE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

LUXTON v. NORTH RIVER BRIDGE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
N o. 1106.

Submitted December 22, 1892. -Decided

January 16, 1893.

An order of the Circuit Court of the United States, appointing commissioners to assess damages for land in New Jersey taken by the North
River Bridge Company for the approaches to a bride across the North
or Hudson River between New York and New Jersey, under the act of
July 11, 1890, c. 669, § 4, is not a final judgment, 'upon which a writ of
error will lie.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.31r. Gilbert Collins for plaintiff in error.
Mr;'. Joseph -. Bedle for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

GRY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to reverse an order made by the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of New
Jersey,. on the petition of the North River Bridge Company,
appointing commissioners to assess damages for the appropriation and condemnation of land of the plaintiff in error in the
city of Hoboken, county of Hudson and State of New Jersey,
for the approaches to a bridge across the North or Hudson
River between the States of New York and New Jersey, under
the act of Congress of July 11, 1890, c. 669, (26 Stat. 268,)
entitled "An act to incorporate the North -River Bridge Company, and to authorize the construction of a bridge and approaches at New York City, across the Huds6n River, to
regulate commerce in and over such bridge between the States
of New York and New Jersey, and to establish such bridge
a military and post road," the constitutionality of which, as
authorizing such appropriation and condemnation, is denied
by the plaintiff in error.
VOL. CxLvi-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

At the threshold of the case lies the inquiry whether the
order of the Circuit Court, appointing commissioners to assess
damages for the taking by the petitioier of the respondent's
land, is a final judgment upon which a writ of- error will lie.
This depends upon the terms and effect of the act of ihcorporationof the'petitioner by the Congress of the United States,
taken in connection with the general railroad law of the State
of New Jersey.
,By'section ,4 of the act incorporating the petitioner, congress has enacted that the compensation for property, real or

personal, appropriated and condemned under the act, shall "be
ascertained according to the laws of the State within which
the same is located;" that "in case any litigation arises out of
the construction, use or operation of said bridge or approaches
thereto- and railroads thereon, or for the condemnation or the
appropriation of property in connection therewith, under this
act, the cause so arising- shall be heard and tried before the
Circuit Court of the United States for the judicial district in
which the bridge or one of the approaches is located;" and that
"applications for condemnation or appropriation of property
shall be made in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
district in which such property is'situated, upon the-petition of
said company, and the hearing and trial of all other proceedings thereon' shall conform as nearly as may be to the practice
in the courts of -the State in -which such district is situated in
the case of condemnation,'or appropriation of property for
railroads." 26-Stat. '269, 270.
This direction that the proceedings in the Circuit Court of
the United States shall "conform as nearly as may be to the
practice in the courts of the State" must, of course, like the
corresponding direction as to practice, pleadings and procedure
in section 914 of the Revised Statutes, give way whenever to
adopt the state practice would be inconsistent with the terms,
defeat-the purpose, or impair the effect, of any legislation of
Congress. Indianapolis c St. Iouis Railroad v. 11orst, 93
U. S.291; Chateaugay Co., yetitioner,128 U. S. 544; Southern
Paciftc
v. Denton, 146 U. S.202.
.By theCo.general
railroad law of New Iersey, any railroad

LUXTOIN v. NORTH RIVER BRIDGE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

corporation, which cannot agree with the owner of land
required for the construction of its road, is to present an
application, containing a description of the land, to a justice
of the Supreme Court of the State for the appointment of
three disinterested, impartial and judicious freeholders, residents in the county in which the land lies, to examine and
appraise the land and to assess the damages; the commissioners so appointed are to make a report' in writing of their
assessment, and to file it, together with the description of, the
land, in the clerk's office of the county, to remain of record
therein; either party aggrieved by the decision of the commissioners may appeal to the circuit court for the county, and
there have the damages ascertained by the verdict of a jury,
upon which judgment is to be entered; and the report so
recorded, with prbof of payment or tender by the corporation
of the damages assessed by the commissioners, or found by
the jury on appeal from their decision, is to be plenary
evidence of the company's right to the land. New Jersey
Laws of 1873, c. 413, §§ 12, 13, pp. 94, 95; Rev. Stat. of 1877,
pp. 928, 929.
The description and report, so filed and recorded, have been
declared by the Supreme Court of the State to be equivalent
to a deed from the owner. IIeleol v. Central Railroad, 5
Dutcher, (29 N. J. Law,) 571, 574; 'Taylor v. -Yew York 4
Long Branch Railroad, 9 Vroom, (38 N. J.Law,) 28.
By the practice in the courts of New Jersey, either the
appointment of commissioners, or their award of damages,
may be reviewed by the Supreme Court of the State on writ
of certiorari matters affecting the validity or the regularity
of their appointment'may be considered on certiorarito the
justice appointing them, after the order of appointment and
before they have acted and questions of law affecting the
power or the action of 'the commissioners may be determined
on certiorarzito them, after their award has been filed and not
appealed from. MAorris & Essexr Railroad v. udson TYunnel
Railroad,9 Vroom, (38 N. J.Law,) 648 ; IeAi
-&Valley
Railroad v. -Dover &4Rockaway Railroad,14 Vroom, (43 N. J.
Law,) 528; Central Railroad v. Hudson Terminal Railway,

OCTOBER TERMA, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

17 Vroom* (46 N. J. Law,) 289; De Camp v. Hibernia Rail
.'oad, 18 Vroom., (47 N. J. Law,) 43, 518.
There are reasons why a writ of certiorari to review the
appointment of the commissioners before they have acted,
may be allowed in the courts of New Jersey, under the law of
the State, which can have no application to proceedings in the
Circuit Court of the United States, under the act of Congress.
The appointment of commissioners under the state practice is
made by a justice of the Supreme Court of the State, as a
judge and not as a court, and is the first and last step to be
taken by him. The award of the commissioners is not to be
returned to him or to that court, but to the office of the clerk
of the county in which the land lies, and is subject to appeal
to a distinct tribunal, the circuit court of the county. Besides,
the Supreme Court of New Jersey has power to issue writs of
certiorari, according to the course of the common law; and a
writ of certiorari to quash proceedings before a special tribunal
fdr want 6f jurisdiction, or to bring them up to be completed,
may issue at any stage of the proceedings, differing in this
respect from a writ of error. loxsey v. Paterson, 10 Vroom,
(39 N. J. Law,) 489; .M-owery v. Camden, 20 Vroom, (49 N. J.
Law,} 106.
But under the act of Congress the application for the
appointment of commissioners and the order appointing them
are required to be made, not to and by a judge sitting at
chambers, but "in the Circuit Court of the United States."
The award of the commissioners so appointed must be filed
and recorded somewhere, in order to preserve the proof of the
rights of. both parties under it. To infer that it should be
filed and recorded in the office of the clerk of the county in
which the land lies would be most incongruous; for that
would either subject an award of commigsioners appointed by
a court of the United States to appeal and review in a court
of the State- or else require an award recorded inthe clerls
office of a court of the State to be reviewed, in the Circuit
Court of the United States. The pr6 visions of the statute of
the Stat6 in this particular being, inapplicable- and the, act of
Congress containing no special direction. on the snbject, the

LUXTON v. NORTH RIVER BRIDGE O0.
Opinion of the Court.

only reasonable conclusion is that the report of the commissioners appointed by the Circuit Court of- the United States
must be returned to the court which appointed them, be made
matter of record therein, and be subject to be confirmed or
set aside by that court. Boston & TWorcester Railroad v.
Western Railroad,14 Gray, 253, 258. And if a trial by jury
should be had, by way of appeal from the assessment of the
commissioners, it must likewise be in the same court. The
case throughout, from the application of the corporation for
the appointment of commissioners to assess damages to the
owner of the land proposed to be taken, until judgment upon'
the award of the commissioners or upon the verdict of a jury,
assessing those damages, remains in the Circuit Court of 'the
United States and under its supervision and control.
The action of that court in this case, as in other cases on
the common law side, is not reviewable by this court by writ
of certiorari; United States v. Young, 94 U. S. 258; but
only by writ of error, which does not lie until after final judgment, disposing of the whole case, and adjudicating all the
rights, whether of title or of damages, involved in the litigation. The case is not to be sent up in fragments by successive
writs of error. Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, § 22, 1 Stat.
84; Rev. Stat. § 691 ; Rutherford v. Fisher,4 Dall. 22 ; Holcombe v. -Mc~usick, 20 How. 552, 554; Louisiana Bank v.
Whitney, 121 U. S. 284; Keystone Co. v. Martin, 132 1. S.
91; XcGourkey v. Toledo & Ohio Railway, 146 U. S. 536.
As by the proceedings in the Circuit Court of the United
States, in the case at bar, neither the title of the corporation
in the land to be taken, nor the right of the owner to damages for taking it, would be adjudicated or established before
the return of the award of the commissioners, it necessarily
follows, under the acts of Congress and the decisions of this
court, that the order appointing commissioners was interlocutory only, and that this writ of error was prematurely sued
out, and must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
The case of Wheeling & Belmont Bridge v. TFheeling
Bridge, cited by the plaintiff in error, is distinguishable from
the present case. Jurisdiction of a writ of error to the Su-

