OCTOBER TERI, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

the statute, and for costs, could be rendered against Mrs.
Cooke. The record disclosed nothing to justify the subjection
of her separate estate to such a liability, and there was error
in the judgment in this particular. -Linn v. Willis, 1 Posey
Gas. 158; Garner v. Butcher, 1 Posey Gas. 430; H ayne8 v.
Stovall, 23 Texas, 625; JAenard v. Sydnor, 29 Texas, 257.
This does not involve the disturbance of the verdict or a reversal of the judgment in any other respect.
The judgment will therefore be affirmed except as to the recovery vof damages and costs against - E. Cooke, and that
part thereof will be reversed as to her, with costs, and the
cause giemanded, with a direction to the Circuit Court to
order the judgment to be modified so as to conform to the
conclusion above announced. Ordered accordingly.

HARMAN v. CHICAGO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT O4 THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No.1022.

Submitted January 9,1893.-Decided January 23, 1893.

The ordinance of the city of Chicago, imposing a license tax for the privilege of navigating the Chicago River and Its branches upon steam tugs
licensed by the United States authorities under the provisions of Rev.
Stat. § 4321, Is an unconstitutional exercise of municipal authority, and
is invalid.
Huse v. Glover, 119 U. S. 543, and Sands v. ,mnistee Improvement Co., 123
U. S. 288, each distinguished from this case.

Tmis was an action against the city of Chicago, Illinois, to
reover the sum of three. hundred dollars paid by the plaintiff
on compulsion-, and under protest, for licenses for twelve steam
tugs of which he was the manager and oivner. The action
was commenced in the Circuit Court of Cook-County, Illinois,
and was tried by the court without the intervention of a jury,
by stipulation of parties. At the trial the plaintiffs put in
evidence the folowing agreed statement of facts:

HAR

IATv. CHICAGO.

Statement of the Case.

"It is hereby stipulated and agreed that for the purpose of
determining the right of the defendant to require of the plaintiff a license, and to impose and collect a fine or license fee
therefor, under an ordinance of the said defendant, hereinafter
set forth, the following are the ultimate facts under which the
said license was required, and the fine or license fee imposed
and collected, viz.: That on the 26th day of Septemberi 1888,
the said plaintiff was the owner and manager of the following
steam tugs, viz.: Tom Brown, F. S. Butler, J. H. Rackley,
C. W. Parker, Bob Teed, A. B. Ward, W. I. Wolf, Crawford,
G. B. McClellan, Mary McLane, Success and Wabbun; that
said tugs, and each of them,- were.of twenty tons burden and
upwards, and were on the said date and for long time prior
thereto had been enrolled and licensed for the coasting trade
in pursuance of and under the provisions of 'Title L'.of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, to which reference is
hereby made and which are made a part hereof; that prior
to the date aforesaid and on the 5th day of March, 1883,
the common council of said city of Chicago, acting under
the power supposed to be vested in it by chapter 24: of the
Revised Statutes of the State of Illinois, and under which the
said city was at said time incorporated, passed and enacted an
ordinance regulating the navigation of steam tugs and other
vessels on Chicago River and Lake Mibhigan and .the waters
tributary thereto, requiring that the owner thereof take out a
license therefor, and imposing upon him a fine or penalty for
failing so to do, which said ordinance is in the words and
figures following:
"Be it ordained by th city council of the city of Chicago:
"SEC. 1. No person or. persons shall keep, use or let for
hire any tug or steam barge or tow-boat, for towing vessels or
craft in the Chicago River, its branches or slips connecting
therewith, without first obtaining a license therefor in the
manner and way hereinafter mentioned.
"SEC. 2. All applications for such license shall be made to
the mayor, and upon payment of twenty-five ($25) dollars
to the city colle*ctor, a licenseshall be issued for the period
of one year by.the city clerk for such tug, or steam barge or

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

tow-boat, and it shall be the duty of the city clerk to keep a
register of the name of the person' to whom such license is
granted or transferred, the day when issued or transferred,
the number of the license, and the name and description of
the tug so licensed.
"SEc. 3. Every tug or steam barge or tow-boat shall have
the number of the license and the name of the owner marked
on both sides of such tug, or steam barge or tow-boat, in plain,
legible figures and letters.
*"Sic. 4. Any individual or person violating any provisions
of this ordinance shall be subject to a fine of not less than five
,dollars ($55 nor more than fifty dollars ($50) for each offence.
"S~c. 5. This ordinance shall be in force from and after its
passage.
"That said steam tugs were enrolled and licensed in the
manner and for the purpose aforesaid, by the United States
authorities in and at the Northern District of Illinois, in which
the said defendant, the said city of Chicago, is situated, and
were on the 26th day of September, 1888, and for a long time
prior thereto had been engaged in the coasting and foreign
trade, and in commerce and navigation, namely, in towing
vessels engaged in interstate commerce into and out of the
Chicago :River and harbor from and to said Lake Michigan,
and in pursuance of the conduct of the said trade, were navigating the said Chicago River and the waters of Lake Michigan, and the tributaries thereto, which said river is from time
to time deepened for navigation purposes by dredging under
the direction and at the expense of said city of Chicago.
1"That on the said day the said city collector of the said
city of Chicago, the defendant herein, notified the said plaintiff to apply for and take out a license in pursuance of the
requirements of the said ordinance for each of said steam tugs,
and to pay therefor the sum of twenty-five dollars for each of
said tugs, or the.suri of three hunddred dol'hrs in the aggregate; that the said plaintiff thereupon notified the said collector that the said steam tugs, and each of them, -were
licensed for the coasting trade, in pursuance of and in accordance with the requirements of the laws of the said United

HARMAN v. CHICAGO.
Statement of the Case.

States, and were engaged in said trade on the said Chicago
River and said Lake Michigan, and the waters tributary thereto, in the manner as aforesaid, and thereupon claimed to the
said collector that the said ordinance was invalid, and that the
said city of Chicago had no power or authority to require the
said plaintiff to take out a license in pursuance of the requirements of the said ordinance, or to pay the said fee, whereupon
the said collector of the said defendant caused the said plaintiff to be arrested upon a warrant issued for that purpose, and
that while the said plaintiff 'was under arrest he paid the said
license fee under protest, and took out the license as required
by the said ordinance, and as demanded of him by the said
collector, which said license was thereupon issued to him.
"That the amount of the fees so as aforesaid paid to the said
collector for the said defendant was the sum of three hundred
dollars; that the said sum was paid by the said collector into
the treasury of the said defendant, the' said city of Chicago,
and that the questions which arise on the foregoing state of
facts are as follows, viz.:
"1st. Whether or not the said defendant can require the
plaintiff to take out the license and collect therefor the fees
provided for in the ordinance aforesaid.
"2d. Whether there was vested in the defendant the power
to require of the plaintiff the license and fee provided for in
the ordinance aforesaid, and in the manner shown by the foregoing state of facts.
"3d. Whether the said ordinance under which said license
was required and the said fee was imposed and collected, is
legal and binding upon the p]aifitiff.
"4th. Whether the plaintiff is not entitled to judgment for
the amount of fees so paid by him as aforesaid.
"It is hereby further stipulated that the said facts may be
presented to the court and tried under the pleadings as they
now stand, and that an order may be entered in said suit, submitting the same to the Honorable Richard S. Tuthill for trial
without the intervention of a jury, and that either party shall
have the right to appeal from the decision and final judgment
of the court herein in the -same manner and to the same ex-

100.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

tent as they would have if the same case had been tried in
the usual and o&dinary way."

'And there was also introduced in evidence on behalf of the
defendant in error an ordinance of the city council of the city
of Chicago, in the words and figures as follows:
"SEc. 1. The inhabitants of all that district of country in
the county of Cook and State of Illinois, contained within
the limits anl boundaries hereinafter prescribed, shall be a
body politic, under the name and style of the city of Chicago;
and by that name sue 'and be sued, complain and defend, in
any. court ; make and use a common seal, and alter at pleasure; and tike and hold, purchase, lease and convey such real
av.d personal or mixed estate as the purposes of the corporation may require, within or without the limits aforesaid.
"SEC. 2. The corp6rate limits and jurisdiction of the city
of Chicago shall embrace and include within the same all of
township thirty-nine north, range fourteen east of the third
principal meridian, and all of sections thirty-one, thirty-two,
thirty-three and fractional section thirty-four, in township
forty north, range fourteen east of the third principal meridian, together with so much of the waters and bed of Lake
Mffichigan as lies within one mile of the shore thereof, and east
of the territory aforesaid.
"S1oE. 3.' All that portion of the aforesaid territory lying
north of the centre of the main Chicago River and east of the
centre of the north branch of said river shall constitute the
north division of said city; all that portion of the aforesaid
territory lying south of the centre of the main Chicago Rivef,
and south and east of the centre of the south branch of said
river and of the Illinois and Michigan Ca-nl, shall constitute
the south division of said city; and all that 'portion of the
aforesaid territory lying w.est of the centre of the north and
south branches of said river and of the Illinois and Michigan
Canal shall constitute the west division of said city."
On the trial of the case the issues were found for the defendant; thereupon an appeal'was taicen to the appellate court for
the First District of the State of Illinois, and there without
argument the juIgment was affirmed, and then an appeal was

HARMANT v. CHICAGO.
Argument for Defendant in Err6r.

taken by the plaintiff to the Supreme Court of the State.
Upon a hearing before that court the judgment of the court
below was reversed, and the ordinance of the city declared to be
invalid; but upon petition a rehearing was granted, and the
case was reargued. After such reargument the judgment
previously rendered by the court was set aside and the judgment of the appellate court was affirmed. The plaintiff thereupon brought the case to this court upon a writ of error.
Mr. C. E. -E£emer and JY. 1). J. Schuyler for plaintiff in
error.
-Yr. ohn S. Xiller for defendant in error.
It is agreed that the Chicago 'River is from time to time
deepened for navigation purposes, by dredging under the
direction and at the expense of the city. The Supreme Court
of the State, in its opinion in this case sustaining the ordinance
as valid, based its decision upon the ground that as the Chicago River had been improved as a waterway by the city of
Chicago at its expense, the license fee is to be sustained as a
payment exacted by the city by way of an equivalent or compensation for the use of the improved waterway so provided
by the city.
If this license fee can, by a reasonable construction of the
ordinance, and by the facts in the case, be regarded as a mode
of exacting compensation for benefits conferred by the city
in providing an improved waterway, it should be sustained.
There can be no question that the imposition of such a fee is
a proper mode of exacting such compensation. Cincinnati 'v.
Bryson, 15 Ohio, 625; St. Louis v. Green, 7 No. App. 468;.
Frommer v. Richmond, 31 Gratt. 616; Charleston v. Penper,
I Rich. (Law), 361.
The license fee exacted in this case can be sustained as an
exaction or compensation for the benefits conferred by the
improvement by the city of Chicago of the waters in question
over which the jurisdiction of the city extends. In such cases
it has been settled by the repeated decisions of this court that
VOL. cxiLvi-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for D~fendant in Error.

the tolls or compfnsation exacted are to be sustained as a reasonable equivalent'for such benefits conferred, and that they are
in no sense an improper interference with commerce. Huse v.
Glover, 119 U. S. 543; Packet Co. v. .eokule, 95 U. S. 80;
Sandsv. -Maistee River Improvement Co., 123 U. S. 288;
Tran.portationCo. v. Parkersburg,107 U. S. 691; Escanaba
Co. v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678; Morgan's Steamship Co. v.
Louisiana, 118 U. S. 455; 6ooley v. Board of Wardens of
PhiladelpAia, 12 How. 299.
It can make no difference what form the compensation is
made to take - whether as toll, or wharfage or license fee.
The gist of the question is, whether the charge made can be

regarded and sustained as compensation for benefits conferred
by the authority imposing the charge.
The constitutional power of the several States to improve
navigable waters lying within their boundaries, and to charge
all vessels navigating such improved waterways reasonable.
tolls or compensation for their use in their improved condition,
is not only supported by the decisions of this court but by
many decisions of the state courts. A large number of these
cases are referred to in the opinion of the Supreme Court of
Illinois in this case, not yet reported, but which will be found
in the record.
The Chicago River and harbor of the city of Chicago lie
within the territorial limits and jurisdiction of the city. A
large portion of the harbor of Chicago is the Chicago River.
And the record shows that the Chicago River is from time to
time deepened for purposes of navigation, under the direction
and at.the expense of the city of Chicago.
This court will take judicial notice of the condition and
navigability of waters. "We are supposed to know judicially
the principal features of the geography of our country, and, as
a part of it, what streams are public navigable waters of the
United States." The .Montello, 11 Wall. 411, 414. Equally
so will the court take notice of the former navigability and
non-pavigability of public waters. Escanaba Co. v. Chicago,
107 U. S. 678.
It.would seem very clearly to appear that the navigability

HARMAIN v. CHICAGO.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

of the Chicago River has been secured almost entirely by the
expenditure of municipal funds; that not only have the proprietors of tug boats been furnished with added convenience
for the transaction of their business, but that the facilities for
the transaction of their business have been 'furnished by the
city of Chicago; that these boats never could have so operated
upon the waters of the Chicago River-as they originaUy were,
and that the amount of compensation required by the city is
so small as to have occasioned no oromplaint, even. on the part
of plaintiff in error.
In the respects above suggested, this case is'totallr unlike
any of the cases in which it was held that the exactions sought
to be imposed were unauthorized; and is similar to those cases
in which it was held that the exaction could be collected forconveniences furnished; not only so, but this case is more
strongly in favor of the city than any of the authorities cited
by either party. For not only have these tug owners enjoyed
added conveniences, but they have constantly made use .of
that condition of navigability which was furnished largely by
the expenditure of the city's money, and without which they
could have had no such opportunity to carry on their business
at all.
None of the cases cited by the counsel for plaintiff in error,
(such as: .Moraoi v. New Orleans, 112 U. S. 69; Robblins v.
Shelby County, 120 U. S. 489; Leloup v. .Mobil, 127 U. S. 640;
Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylyvania, 141 U. S. 18 ;
Pickard v. Pullman Southern Car Co., 117 U. S. 34; .Mane
v. Grand Trunk RIailway, 142 U. S. 217,) in any way involved
the question of the right of the States (or of the local muniepalities, under a grant of power from the gtate,) to exact
a compensation for the use of navigable rivers or harbbri,
within their limits, by them improved, from vessels or boats
engaged in interstate commerce or enrolled and licensed nnder
the acts of Congress. The line of decisions referred to do
not touch upon or in any way involve the- principles involved
in this case and laid down in the line'of decisions in this
court, of which Huse v. Glover and Sands v. .Manistee Co. are
examples.

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1992.
Opmion of the Court.

IMR. JusTicE FErI, - after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The question presented for determination is the validity of
the ordinance of the city of Chicago exacting a license from
the plaintiff for the privilege of navigating the Chicago River
and its branches by tug-boats owned and controlled by him.
The Chicago River is a navigable stream, and its waters connect with the harbor of Chicago, and the vessels navigating
the river and harbor have access by them to Lake Michigan,
and the States bordering on the lake and connecting lakes and
rivers. The tugs in question, from the owner of which the
license fees were exacted, were enrolled and licensed in the
coasting trade of the United States, under the provisions of
the Revised Statutes prescribing the conditions of such license
and enrolment. The license is in the form contained in section
4321 of the Revised Statutes, in Title L, under the head of
"The Regulations of Vessels in Domestic Commerce." It
declares that Williar Harmon, managing owner, of Chicago,
having given bond that the steam tug (namin it and her
tonnage,) shall not be employed in any trade while this license
shall continue in force, whereby the revenue of the United
States shall be defrauded, and having also sworn that this
license shall not be used for any other vessel, nor for any other
employment than herein specified, the license is hereby granted
for such steam tig (naming it,) to be employed in carrying on
the coasting and foreign trade, for one year from the date
thereof. The license is given by the collector of customs of
the'district, under his hand and seal. The licenses for the
several- tugs *ere in this form, differiing from each other only
in the name of the tug licensed and its tonnage. The licenses
confer a right upon the owner of the steam tugs to navigate
with them the rivers and the waters of the United States for
one year, which includes the river and harbbr of Chicago, Lake
Michigan, and connecting rivers and lakes. It appears from
the record that at the time the license fees in controversy were
exacted, these -tugs were actually engaged in the coasting and
foreign trade, and in, towing vessels engaged in interstate com-

, IARMAN v. oCHICAGO.'
Opinion of the Court.

meree, fron Lake Michigan to the Chicago River and its
branches, and in towing vessels similarly engaged from the
river into the lake.
In Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheai. 1, 213, this court held 'that
vessels enrolled and licensed pursuant to the laws of the United
States, as these tugs were, had conferred upon them as-full
and complete authority to carry on this trade as it was in the
power of Congress to confer.
The language of the court in that case respecting the first,
section of the act then .under consideration is equally applicable
to the provisions of section 4311 of Title L of the Revised Statutes. This latter section declares that "vessels of twenty tons
and upward, enrolled in pursuance of this Title, and having
a license in force, or vessels of less than twenty tons, which,
although not enrolled, have a license in force as required by
this Title, and no others, shall be deemed vessels of the United
States, entitled to the privileges of vessels employed in the
coasting trade or.fisheries." The first section of the act mentioned in Gi'bbom v. Ogd& is substantially the same as the
above section 4311, and, referring to the privileges conferred
by it, the court said: "These privileges cannot be separated
from the trade, and cannot be enjoyed, unless the trade may
be prosecuted. The grant of the privilege is an idle, empty
form, conveying nothing, unless it convey the iight to which
the privilege is Attached, and in the exercise of which its whole
value consists. To construe these Words otherwise than as entitling the ships or vessels described, to carry on the coasting
trade, would be, we think, to disregard the apparent intent of
the act."
The business in which the tugs of the plaintiff were engaged
is similar to that of the vessels mentioned in Foster v. _Davenport, 22 How. 244. In that dase a steamboat was employed
as a lighter and tow-boat in waters in the State of Alabama.
It was, therefore, insisted that she was engaged exclusively in
domestic trgde and commerce, and consequently the case could
be distinguished from the preceding one of ,Sinnot v. Da-e.port,22 How. 227, argued with it, in which a law of Alabama,
passed in 1854, requiring the owners of steamboats navigating

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the waters of the State, before leaving the port of Mobile, to
file a statement in writing in the office of the probate judge of
Mobile County setting forth the name of the vessel, the name
of the owner or owners, his or their place or places of residence, and the interest each had in the vessel, was held to be
in conflict with the act of Congress passed in February, 1793,
so far as the State law was brought to bear upon a vessel
which had taken out a license, and was duly enrolled under
the act of Congress for carrying on the coasting trade. But
Mr. Justice Nelson, speaking for the court, replied as follows:
"It is quite apparent, from the facts admitted in the -case, that
this steamboat was employed in aid of vessels engaged in the
foreign or coastwise trade and commerce of the United States,
either in the delivery of their cargoes, or in towing the vessels
themselves to the port of Mobile. The character of the navigation and business in which it was employed cannot be distinguished from that in which the vessels it towed or unloaded
were engaged. -"The lightering or towing was but the prolongation of the voyage of the vessels, assisted to their -port of
destination. The case, therefore, is not distinguishable in
principle from the one above referred to."
In the present case a neglect or refusal of the owner of the
tugs to pay the license required by the ordinance subjects him
to the imposition of a fine. His only alternative is to pay the
fine, or the use of his tugs in their regular business will be
stopped. Of course, the ordinance, if constitutional and operative, has the effect to restrain the use of the vessels in the
legitimate commerce for which they are expressly licensed by
the United States. It would be a burden and restraint upon
that commerce, which is authorized by the Umited States, and
over which Congress has control. No State can interfere
with it, or put obstructions upon it, without coming in conflict
with the supreme authority of Congress. The requirementthat every steam tug, barge or tow-boat, towing vessels or
craft for hire in the Chicago River or its branches shall have
a license from the city of Chicago, is equivalent to declaring
that such vessels shall not enjoy the privileges conferred by
the United States, except upon the conditions imposed by the

HARMA"T v. CHICAGO.
Opinion of the Court.

city. This ordinance is, therefore, plainly and palpably in
conflict with the exclusive power of Congress -to regulate
commerce, interstate and foreign. The steam tugs are not
confined to any one particular locality, but may carry on the
trade for which they are licensed in any of the ports and
navigable rivers of the United States. They may pass from
the river and harbor of Chicago to any port on Lake Michigan, or other lakes and rivers copnected therewith. As justly
observed by counsel: The citizen of any of the States bordering on the lakes who with his tug-boat, also enrolled and
licensed for the coasting trade, may wish to tow his or his
neighbor's vessel, must, according to the ordinance, before he
can tow it into Chicago River, or any of its branches, obtain
a license from the city of Chicago to do so. The license of
the United States would be insufficient to give him free access
to those waters.
In Moran v. New Orlean , 112 U. S. 69, 74, a law of Louisiana authorized the city of New Orleans to levy and collect
a license upon all persons pursuing any trade, profession or
calling, and to provide for its collection, and the council of
that city passed an ordinance to establish the rate of licenses
for professions, callings and other business for the year 1880,
and, among others, provided that every member of a firm or
company, other agency, person or corporation, owning and
running tow-boats to and from the Gulf of Mexico, should pay
a license fee of $500. The owner of two steam propellers,
measuring over one hundred tons, duly enrolled and licensed
at the port of New Orleans under the law of the United
States, for the coasting trade, employed them as tug-boats in
taking vessels from the sea up the river to New Orleans, and
from that port to the sea. The city of New Orleans brought
an action against him to recover the license under the ordinance, and obtained a judgment in its favor, which, on appeal,
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. Being
brought to this court the judgment was reversed, with directions to the court below to dismiss the action of the city, In
deciding the case this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Matthews,
said of the license exacted: "It is a charge explicitly made as

408 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the price of the privilege of navigating the Mississippi River,
between New Orleans and the Gulf, in the coastwise trade, as
the bondition on which the State of Louisiana consents that
the boats of the plaintiff in error may be employed by him
according to the terms of the license granted under the
authority of Congress. The sole occupation sought to be.
subjected to the tax is that of using and enjoying the license
of the United States to employ these partiular vessels in the
coasting trade; and the State thus seeks to burden with an
exaction, fixed at its own pleasure, the very right to -which
the plaintiff in error is entitled under, and which he derives
from, the Constitution and laws of the United States. The
Louisiana statute declares expressly that if he refuses or-neglects to pay the license tax imposed .upon him for using his
boats in this way, he shall not be permitted to act under and
avail himself of the license granted by the. United, States, but
may be enjoined from so doing by judicial process. Th6 conflict between the two authorities is direct and express. What
the- one declares may be done without the tax, the other
declares shall not be done except upon payment of the tax.
In such an oppbsition, the only question is, which is the
superior authority? and reduced to that, it furnishes its own
answer. ) .
I In the light of theseI decisions, and nany others. to the same
effect might be cited, there can be no question as to the invalidity of the ordinance, under consideration unless its validity
can be found in the alleged expenditures of the city of Chicago in deepening and improving the river. It is upon such
alleged ground that. the court below sustained the judgment
and upheld the validity of theordinance, and it is upon that
'ground that it is sought to support the judgment in this court.
The decisions of this court in _Huse v. Glover, 119 U. S. 543,
and in Sands v. Manistee R-'iver Improventent Co., 123 U. S.
288, are particularly referred to and relied upon. The attempt
is made to assimilate the present case to those cases from the
fact that it is conceded that the Chicago River is from time to
time deepened for navigation purposes by dredging under the
direction and at the expense of the city. The license fee pro-

HARMAN v. CHICAGO.
Opinion of the Court.

vided for in the ordinance of the city is treated as in the nature
,of a toll or compensation for the expenses of deepening the
river. But the plain answer to this position is that the license
fee is not exacted upon any such ground, nor is any suggestion
made that any special benefit has arisen or can arise to the
tugs in question by the alleged deepening of the river. The
license is not exacted as a toll or compensation for any specific improvement of the river, of which the steam barges. or
tugs have the benefit, but is exacted for the keeping, use or
lettiing to hire of any steam tug, or barge or tow-boat, for
towing vessels or craft into the Chicago River, its branches or
slips connected therewith. -The business of the steam- barge
or tow-boat is to aid the moVement of vessels in the river and
its branches and adjacent waters; that is, to aid the commerce
in which such vessels are engaged.
As said by this court in -Fosterv. Davenport, 22 How. 244,
from which we have quoted above, the character of the navigation and business in which the steam barges or tug-boats
are employed cannot be distinguished from that in which the
vessels towed are engaged. In -HZzue v. Riover, 119 U. S. 543,
548, the legislature of Illinois had, by various acts, adopted
measures for improving the navigation of the Illinois River,
including the construction of a lock and dam at two places on
the river, and for that purpose created a board of canal commissioners and invested them with authority to superintend
the construction of the locks and canals, to control and manage them after their construction, and to prescribe reasonable
rates of .toll for- the passage of vessels through the locks.
The works were constructed at an expense of several hundred
thousand dollars, which was borne principally by the State,
although the United States bore a part of it, sufficient to testify
to their consent and approval of the work; and the commissioners prescribed rates of toll for the passage of vessels through
the locks, the rates being fixed per ton according to the tonnage
-measurement of the vessels and the amount of freight carried.
Certain parties engaged in the ice trade, and employing several
vessels in transporting ice. on the river and thence by the
:Mississippi and other pavigable streams to St. Louis and other

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Southern markets, all of which vessels were licensed and
registered under the act of Congress, filed a bill alleging that,
prior to the construction of the dams, the complainants were
able to navigate the river without interruption, except such as
was incident to the ordinary use of the channel in its natural
state; that said dams were an impediment to the free navigation of the river; that for the'construction of the locks they
were charged and paid duties upon the tonhage measurement
of their steamboats and other vessels, amounting to about five
thousand dollars; and that similar charges would be made upon
subsequent shipments. And the bill alleged that the imposition
of the tolls and tonnage duties was in violation of article four of
the ordinance for the government of the territory of the United
States northwest of the Ohio River, passed July 13, 1787,
which provides "that the navigable waters leading into the
:Mississippi and St. Lawrence and the carrying places between
the same shall be a common highway and forever free, a's
.well to the inhabitants of the territory as to citizens of the
United States, and those of any other State that may be admitted into the confederacy without any tax, impost or duty
therefor," and of the article of the Constitution prohibiting the
imposition of a'tonnage duty by any.State without the consent
of Congress. The bill theiefore prayed that the canal commissioners and persons acting under them might be restrained
from exacting any tonnage duties. or other.charges for, the
passage of their steamboats or barges and other vessels used
by them in navigating the Illinois River, and from interfering
in any manner with the free navigation of the river in the
course of their business. The Circuit Court of the United
States -sustained the validity of the statute and this court
affirmed its judgment. In its opinion this court said:
"The exaction of tolls for passage through the locks is as
compensation for the use of artificial facilities constructed, not
as an impost upon-the navigation of the stream. The provision of the clause that the navigable streams should be highways without any tax, impost or duty, has reference to their
navigation in their natural state. Itdid not contemplate that
such navigation might not be improved by artificial means, by

HARMAN v. CHICAGO
Opinion of the Court.

the removal of obstructions, or by the making of dams for deepening the waters, or by turning into the rivers waters from

other streams to increase their depth. For outlays caused by
such works the State may exact reasonable tolls. They are
like charges for the use of wharves and docks constructed to
facilitate the landing of persons and freight, and the taking
them on board, or for the repair of vessels."The State is interested in the domestic as well as in the interstate and foreign commerce conducted on the Illinois River;
and to increase its facilities, and thus augment its growth, it
has full power. It is only when, in the judgment of Congress,
its action is deemed to encroach upon the navigation of the
river as a means of interstate and foreign commerce, that that
body may interfere and control or supersede it. If, in the
opinion of the State, greater benefit would result to her commerce by the improvements made than by leaving the river in
its natural state-and on that point the State must necessarily determine for itself -it may authorize them, although increased inconvenience and expense may thereby result to the
business of individuals. The private inconvenience must yield
to the public good."
,We adhere to the doctrine thus declared. It was not new
when stated in the case mentioned. It had b6en often announced, though; perhaps, not with as much 'fulness., That
case differs essentially from the one before us. It pointed out
distinctly .the nature of the improvement; the benefit which
it extended to vessels was readily perceptible, and no principle
was violated, and no control of Congress over commerce, interstato or foreign, was impaired thereby. Congiess, by its
contribution to the work, had assented to it. The navigation
of the river was improved and facilitated,'and those thus bebefited were required to pay a reasonable toll for the increased
facilities afforded. Nothing of this kind is mentioned for
consideration in the ordinance of Chicago. The license fee is
a tax for the use of navigable waters, not a charge by way of
compensation for any specific improvement.. The grant to.
the city under which the ordinance was passed is a general'
one to all municipalities' of the State. Waters navigable in

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

themselves in a State, and connecting with other navigable
waters so as to form a waterway to other States or foreign
nations, cannot be obstructed or impeded so as to impair,
defeat or place any burden upon a right to their navigation
granted by Congress. Such right the defendants had from
the fact that their steam barges and towboats were enrolled
and licensed, as stated, under the laws of the United States.
The case of Sands v. Manistee River Imirovement Co., 123
U. S. 288, does not have any bearing upon the case under
consideration. The Manistee River is wholly within the
State of Michigan, and its improvement o consisted in the
removal of obstacles to the floating of logs and lumber down
the stream, principally by the cutting of new channels at
different points and confining the waters at other points by
embankments. The statute under which the improvement
company was organized contained various provisions to secure
a careful consideration of the improvements proposed and of
their alleged benefit to the public, and, if adopted, their
proper construction, and also for the establishment of tolls to be
charged for their use. When the case came before this court
it was held that the internal commerce of a State, that is, the
commerce Which is wholly confined within its limits, is as
much under its control as foreign or interstate commerce is
under the control of the general government, and, to encourage the growth of that commerce and render it safe, States
might provide for the removal of obstructions from their
rivers and harbors and deepen their channels and improve
them in other ways, and levy a general tax or toll upon those
who use the improvements to meet their cost, provided the
free navigation of the waters, as permitted by the laws of the
United States, was not impaired, and provided any system for
the improvement of their navigation instituted by the general
government was not defeated. No legislation of Congress
was, by the statute of Michigan, in that case interfered with,
nor any right conferred, under the legislation of Congress, in
the navigation o; the river by licensed or enrolled vessels,
"impaired, defeated or burdened in any respect. It was the
improvement of a river wholly within the State, and, therefore,

