UNITED STATES u. PITMN.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. PITMAN .
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND.
Wo. 699. Submitted January 9, 1893.-Decided March 0,1893.

Marshals are entitled to per diem fees for attendance when attending under
§§ 583, 584, 671, 672 and 2013 Rev. Stat., the same as if the judge were
present and business were transacted.

THIS was a petition for per-diem fees as clerk of the Circuit and District Coutts of the United States for the District
of Rhode-IEland. Petitioner claimed for 108 days' attendance
under Revised Statutes, sections 672 and 583, and averred that,
notwithstanding the rendition of the services claimed and the
approval of his account by the court, and notwithstanding that
the marshal, the crier and one of the bailiffs had received pay
for attendance upon a portion of the days enumerated in his
petition, to which fact the attention of the First Comptroller
was called, the accounting officer of the Treasury declined to
allow the same. With respect to certain of the days the court
found that they "were days 'on which sessions of the said Circuit Court were appointed to be holden by the presiding judge
thereof, and that the said Pitman attended on said days at
the time and place of holding said court accordingly, and that
no judge was present to preside at said court on said days, and
that said court on said days was adjourned by and pursuant\to
a written order signed by one of the judges of said court atid
directed alternatively to the marshal and in his absence to tOe
clerk, to a day and time fixed and limited in said order;" ailI
that certain other days "1were days'on which sessions, terms,
and sittings of the said District Court were appointed to be
holden by the presiding judge thereof," and that otherwise the
facts were the same. as in the former case. Upon this state of
facts the court entered a judgment for the petitioner in the sum
of $4195, (45 Fed. IRep. 159,) and the United States appealed.

OCTOBER TERIM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

.r Solieitor General and .Mr .Felix Branrrgan for appellants.
.r
M

Henry Pitman in person.
. JusTicE BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

This case depends upon the construction to be given to
:Revised Statutes, § 828, wherein there is allowed to the clerk
'five dollars a day for his attendance on the court while
actually in session," taken in connection with § 583, which
provides that "if the judge of any District Court is unable
to attend at the commencement of any regular, adjourned or
special term, the court may be adjourned by the marshal, by
virtue of a written order directed to him by the judge, to the
next regular term, or to any earlier day, as the order may
direct," and with § 672, which contains a similar provision
with regard to the absence of the judges of a Circuit Court.
The practice in the District of Rhode Island is stated in the
opinion of the court below, to be "that the courts shall meet
at the time fixed by law and transact such business as may
then appear, and thereafter shall hold by successive adjournments and appointments at short intervals a substantially
continuous session until the next succeeding day for the commencement of a regular term. During the continuance of
these sessions the judges have attended in court here whenever
their engagements did not take them elsewhere, and on the
occasion of their absence or expected absence, for a time which
might be definitely fixed, or which was indeterminate by reason of the doubtful exigencies of- business elsewhere, they have
sometimes, as in this case, made provision for adjournments
accordihg to the terms of sections 583 and 672."
Whether this practice be conducive to the convenient dispatch of business or not, is a question for the judge to determine. After the term of a court has been regularly opened
upon the day provided by law, the question how long it shall
remain open, to what day it shall be adjourned, and whether
and how often it shall be opened for incidental business after

UNITED STATES v. PITMAN.
Opmion of the Court.

the regular business of the term has been concluded, is a matter which rests in the discretion of the presiding judge. It is
presumed that he will act in this particular in what he conceives
to be the interest of the public, and that he will put the
government to no unnecessary expense. It is clearly the duty
of the officers of the court to be present at the adjourned day,
and to obey tht written order of the judge with respect to
any further adjburnment, and there is no reason why they
should not receive their per-diems therefor as if the judge
were actually present. It was held by this court in the case
of .Me.Mullen v United States, 146 U. S. 360, that when the
qourt is open, by its order, for the transaction of business, it is
in session within the meaning of this section, "but that if the
court, by its own order, is closed for all purposes of business
for an entire day, or for any given number of days, it is not
in session on that day, or during those days, although the
current term has not expired."
We think the court should be deemed " actually in session
within the meaning of the law, not only when the judge is
present in person, but when, in obedience to an order of the
judge directing its adjournment to a certain day, the officers
are present upon that day, and the journal is opened by the
clerk, and the court is adjourned to another day by further
direction of the judge. That this was the construction placed
upon these sections by Congress is evwdent'by the civil appropriation act of -March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 509, 541, c. 362; which
provided as follows: "Nor shall any part of any money
appropriated be used in payment of a per-diem compensation
to any attorney, clerk or-marshal for attendance in court except for days when the court is open by the Judge for business,
or business is actually transacted in court, and when they attend under sections five hundred aun eighty-three, five hundred
and eighty-four, six. hundred and seventy-one, six hundred and
seventy-two, and two thousand and thirteen of the Revised
Statutes, which fact shall be certified in the approval of their
accounts."
Attendance upon the days when the court is opened under
the provisions of these numbered sections is put by Congress

