UNITED STATES v. HALL.
Opinion of the Court.

This disposes of all the items involved upon this appeal,
and the judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Reversed, and the case remanded,wit instructions to reduce
te judgment,n conformity witk thm opznwn.

UNITED STATES ,v. HALL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 459. Submitted January3,1893. -Decided

March 6,1893.

On the authority of United States v. Ewing, 140 U. S. 142, the charges of a
commissioner of a Circuit Court for docket fees are disallowed, and the
charges for acknowledgments of sureties on recognizances of defendants
in prosecutions.brought by the United States reduced to a fee for a single
acknowledgment.

Tins was an action by a commissioner of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Ohio for
docket fees, and for fees for taking the acknowledgment of
sureties upon recogmzances. The court rendered a judgment
in favor of the petitioner for $336.75, and the United States
appealed.
-Hr James H. Nixon and XP Solicitor General for appellants.
-. ' C arle C. Lancaster for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE

BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves but two items 1. The charge for docket fees must be disallowed upon the
authority of United States v Ewmgf 140 U. S. 142, 147, I 7.
2. The claim for acknowledgments is based upon the allegation of the petition, that the plaintiff "took and certified

OCTOBER TERAI, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

103 acknowledginents of sureties on recognizances of defendants in prosecutions brought by the United States, for each of
which acknowledgments plaintiff was entitled by the statutes
of the United States- to receive the sum of twenty-five cents."
This item must also be reduced to a fee of twenty-five cents
for taking a single acknowledgment in each case, since it was
held m the case of Unted States v .Ewng,above cited, p. 146,
2, that the taking of an acknowledgment in a criminal
cause by the accused and his sureties is a single act, for which
only one fee can be charged. If, for any reason, it was necessary to take them separately, that fact should have been made
to appear. The burden of proof was upon the plaintiff.
The judgment of the court must, therefore, be
.RZev&esed, and tke case remanded,with sntructions to reduce
thlwyudgment sn conformity with ths omrnon.

UNITED STATES v. McANDLESS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 900.

Submitted January9, 1893. -Decided

March 6, 1893.

There is no legal -objection to the same person holding the offices of clerk
and of commissloner of a Circuit Court, and the person so holding them
is entitled to the fees and emoluments of both.
The court disallows the following charges by a clerk of a District Court.
(1) Docket fees where the grand jury returned ",not true bill,"
(2) Docket fees where the case is not finally disposed of;
(8) A charge for miscellaneous fees, entering orders of court, making
copies, certificates, and seals, as being too general,
(4) A charge for issuing commitments to jail in addition to copy of
order of removal, as being too indefinite;
(5) An item for entering orders of court, approving accounts of officers,
dnd copies of certificates and seals.

THIs was a petition by the clerk of the District Court for
the Western District of Pennsylvania for payment of certain
.fees which had been disallowed m the settlement of his

