BAUSERMAN

v. BLUNT.

Statement of the Case.

BAUSERMAN v. BLUNT.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 107.

Argued January 6. 1893. -Decided

March 6, 1893.

The construction given by the Supreme Court of a State to a statute of
limitations of the State will be followed by this court, even in a case
decided the other way in the Circuit Court before the decision of the
state court.
The statute of limitations of Kansas, as construed by the Supreme Court of
the State, does not run while the debtor is personally absent from the
State, although he retains a usual place of residence therein, where a
summons upon him might be served.
The statute of limitations of Kansas, as construed by the Supreme Court
of the State, stops running at the death of the debtor, but for su,
reasonable time only as will enable the creditor to have an administrator
appointed.

THIS was an action brought February 13, 1886, in a court
of the State of Kansas, by Elbridge G. Blunt, a citizen of
Illinois, against Bauserman, a citizen of Kansas, and administrator of James G. Blunt, deceased, upon a promissory note
for $3204.34-, made by James G. Blunt at Chicago, Illinois,
July 1, 1875, and payable to Elbridge G. Blunt in one day
after date, with interest annually at the rate of ten per cent.
The petition, after setting forth the making of the note at
the time and place aforesaid, alleged that James G. Blunt, at
the time of making the note, and for a long time before and
after, was a, citizen and resident of Kansas, and died intestate
iji July, 1881, leaving property in that State, that no administrator of his estate was appointed until the defendant was
appointed administrator on December 14, 1885, that James
G. Blunt, after the making of the note and before his death,
was absent from and out of the State of Kansas, as well as
the State of Illinois, "for more than five years;" and that
no part of the note or of the interest thereon bad been paid,
except $100paid December 1, 1875, and indorsed on the note.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

The defendant demurred to the petition, and assigned for
cause of demurrer, "that said potition does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action in favor of the plaintiff and against this defendant, and that it appears by the
said petition that the alleged cause of action therein stated is
barred by the statute of limitations."
On March 13, 1886, the case was removed by the defendant
into the Circuit Court of the United States, in which, on June
10, 1886, as appeared by its record, the following proceedings
were had "Demurrer herein came on to be heard, and was
argued by counsel, on consideration where~f the court doth
overrule said demurrer, to which ruling and decision of the
court said defendant duly excepts. It is ordered by the court
that the defendant have sixty days from this date to file
answer."
On June 23, 1886, the defendant filed an answer, setting up
the statute of limitations, and alleging that the debtor, from
the making of the note until his death, had his home and
usual place of residence, where his family lived, and where
process on him might have been served, in the city of Leavenworth and State of Kansas, and that his absence from the
State was only temporary and with the intention of returning
to that home and residence. The plaintiff filed a replication,
denying all the allegations of the answer, except as admitted
in the petition, and alleging that the debtor, after the maturity of the note and before his death, was out of the State of
Kansas and personally absent therefrom for spaces of time
aggregating the full period of five years; and that this action
was commenced within one year after the appointment of an
administrator of his estate. The parties afterwards in writing
waived a trial by jury, and agreed that the action might be
tried by the court.
The evidence at the trial tended to prove the following
factp.. The plaintiff and James G. Blunt were brothers. The
note sued on was given at its date in Chicago, in settlement
for work previously done by the plaintiff for the maker, and
the maker a few days afterwards left Chicago and went to
Washington in the District of Columbia, ajid between that

BAUSERMfAN v. BLUNT.
Statement of the Case.

time and his death was absent from the State of Kansas more
than five years, but during all this time, and for many years
before, kept and maintained his usual place of residence and
home in Kansas, open and occupied by his wife and children,

and at which service of a summons might have been made on
him.

He died intestate July 25, 1881, and the defendant was

duly appointed and qualified as his administrator by a probate
court in Kansas on December 14, 1885.
The plaintiff relied upon the following sections of chapter
80 of the"Compiled Laws of Kansas of 1879 and 1885
"'SEC. 18. Civil actions, other than for the recovery of real
property, can only be brought within the following period
after the cause of action shall have accrued, and not afterwards First. Within five years An action upon any agreement, contract or promise in writing."
"SEC. 21. If, when a cause of action accrues against a
person, he be out of the State, or has absconded or~concealed
himself, the period limited for the commencement of the
action shall not begin to run until he comes into the State, or
while he is so absconded or concealed, and if, after the cause
of action accrues, he depart from the State, or abscond or
conceal himself, the time of his absence or concealment shall
not be computed as any part of the period within which the
action must be brought."
The defendant, to \maintain the issues on. his part, relied
upon the following section of the same chapter" SEC. 64. The service shall be by delivering a copy of the
summons to the defendant personally, or by leaving one at
his usual place of residence, at any time before the return
day."
Also upon the following section of chapter 37 of those laws:
"SEC. 12. Administration of the estate of an intestate shall
be granted to some one or more .of the persons hereinafter
mentioned, and they shall be respectively entitled thereto in
the following order, to wit
"First. His widow, or next of kin, or both, as the court
may think proper, and if they do not voluntarily either take
or renounce the administration..withm thirty days after the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Names of Counsel.

death of the intestate, they shall, if resident within the county,
upon application of any one interested, be cited by the court
or judge for that purpose.
"Second. If the persons so entitled to administration are
incompetent, or evidently unsuitable for the discharge of the
trust, or if they neglect for twenty days after service of. said
citation, without any sufficient cause, to take administration
of the estate, the court shall commit it to one or more of the
principal creditors, if there be any competent and willing to
undertake the trust.
"Third., If there be no such creditors, and the court is
satisfied that the estate exceeds the value of one hundred
dollars, the court shall commit administration to such other
persons as it shall deem proper."
Thereupon the court, on November 26, 1888, "being of.
opinion that the personal absence of the debtor from the State
of Kansas, notwithstanding his residence in the State, where
service of a summons could be made on him, was sufficient to
prevent the bar of the statute of limitations, and that the
statute of limitations was suspended from the debtor's death
until the appointment of his administrator," found and adjudged that the plaintiff recover of the defendant the sum of
$7396.02, with interest at the yearly rate- of ten per cent from
that date, and allowed a bill of exceptions to that opinion
and finding.
The defendant sued out this writ of error, and assigned as
errors First. That the petition and the matters therein contained were insufficient for the plaintiff to maintain his action.
Second. That.by the record it appeared that the findings and
judgment were given for the plaintiff, whereas by law they
ought to have been given for the defendant.
.Xr FrankJfagermann and _Mr r H. Gillpatrtck for plaintiff in error.
Mr Samuel Shellabarger,(with whom were MrM Jeremzah
XM. WiTson and .Mr ohAn L. Penderyon the brief,) for defendant in error.

BAUSEREAX v. BLUNT.
Opinion of the Court.

Mvh.

JUsTIcE Giiy, after stating the .case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This is an action on a promissory note. The defence is the
statute of limitations. The note was payable July 2, 1S75..
The debtor died in July, 1881. An admifiistratoi-of his estate
was appointed and qualified December 14, 1885. The action
was brought February 13, 1886.
By the statute of limitations of Kansas, an action upon any
agreement, contract or promise in writing must be brought
within five years after the cause of action accrues; but it is
provided that "if when a cause of action accrues against a person, he be out of the State," "the period limited for the commencement of the action shall not begin to run until he comes
into the State," "and if, after the cause of action accrues, he
depart from the State," "the time of his absence" "shall
not be computed as any part of the period within which the
action must be brought." Compiled laws of Kansas, c. 80, §§
18, 21.
The statutes of Kansas also provide that a summons in a
civil action may be served either upon the defendant personally, Qr by leaving a copy at his usual place of residence, and
further provide that administration of the estate of an intestate
may be granted as fbllows: first, to his widow or next of kin,
second, if they do not apply, or are unsuitable, to one or more
of his creditors, and third, if there are no creditors competent
and willing to undertake it, to such other persons as the court
shall deem proper. Compiled Laws of Kansas, c. 37, § 12,
c. 80, § 64.
The two principal questions presented by the record and
argued by counsel are 1st. Whether the statute of limitations
began and continued to run during the personal absence of
the debtor from the State, retaining a usual place of residence
therein, where a summons upon him might be served?
2d. Whether the running of. the statute was suspended, after
the death of the debtor, until the appointment of an administrator of his estate, more than four years and four months
afterwards, although the plaintiff, as a creditor of the deceased,

OCTOBER TERMf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

could, at the end of fifty days from his death, have applied to
have an administrator appointed?
Both these questions appear by the bill of exceptions to have
been treated as arising upon the evidence at the trial, and to
have been ruled upon in entering final judgment. The first
one certainly was, and if the second was not unequivocally
raised at that stage of the case, it was clearly presented by the
demurrer to the petition, inasmuch as, by the practice in Kansas, the defence of the statute of limitations, when all the
requisite'facts appear on the face of the petition, may be taken
advantage of by demurrer. Zane v Zane, 5 Kansas, 134,
,'artlett v: Bullene, 23 Kansas, 606, 613, CMemung Canal
Bank v Lowery, 93 U S. 72. The defendant having answered
over by leave and order of the court, reserving his objection
to the overruling of the demurrer, the question whether the
demurrer was rightly overruled is open on this writ of error
sued out after final judgment against him. Teat v Walker,
111 U. S. 242, Southern PacXc (o. v Denton, 146 U S. 202.
Both questions depend upon the local law of Kansas. By a
provision inserted in the first Judiciary Act of the United
States, and continued in force ever since, Congress has enacted
that "the laws of the several States, except where the Constitution, treaties or statutes of the United States otherwise
require or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision in
trials at common law, in the courts of the United States, in
cases where they apply" Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20,
34, 1 Stat. 92, Rev Stat. § 721. No laws of the several
States have been more steadfastly or more often recognized by
this court, from the beginning, as rules of decision in the courts
of the United States, than statutes of limitations of actions,
real and personal, as enacted by the legislature of a State, and
as construed by its higliest court, HTiggmson, v d2en, &
Cranch, 415, 419, 420 - Shelby v Guy, 11 Wheat. 361, 367,
Bell v Morrison, 1 Pet. 35-1, 360, Menderson v Gryll, 5 Pet.
151, Green v -Meal, 6 Pet. 291, 297-300; -lcElmoyle v Cohen,
13 Pet. 312, 327,
aEIpending v Dutch Ghurch, 16 Pet. 455,
493, Leffngwell v Warren, 2 Black, 599, Bohn v. Waterson,
17 Wall. 596, 600, Tioga RZailroad v. Blossburg & Cornzng

BAUSERM _I

. BLUNT

Opinion of the Court.

Railroad,20 Wall. 137, 'hbbe

v. Ditto, 93 U. S. 674; -Dame,

v Brsggs, 97 U S. 628 637, Amy v.DNbuque, 98 U S. 470,
Afills v Scott, 99 U. S. 25, 98, .fYoorem v -NationalBank, 104
U. S. 625 .3ickhgan- Insurance Bank v Eldred, 130 U. S.
693, 696, Pen.feld v OCesapeake c. Railroad,134 U S. 351,
Barney v Oelrichs, 138 U. S. 529.
In Patten,v Easton, 1 Wheat. 476, 482, and again inPowell
v .Harman,2 Pet, 2411, this court had construed a Tennessee
statute of limitations of real 'actions in accordance with decisions of the Supreme Court of the State, made since the first
of those cases was certified up to this court, and supposed to
have settled the construction of the statute. Yet in Green. v
NYeal, 6 Pet. 291, a judgment of the Circuit Court of the
United States, which had held itself bound bv those cases in
this court, was reversed, because of more r-cent decisions of
the state court, establishing the opposite construction.
In Pease v Peck, 18 How 595, it -was because the statute
of limitations of :ichigan,-as- published by authority of the
legislature and acted on by the people for thirty years, contained an exemption of "beyond seas," that this court declined
to treat those words as not part of the act, although it was
shown that they were not in the original manuscript preserved
in the public archives, and that they had therefore been recently adjudged by the Supreme dourt of the State to be no
part of the act. The, question there was not of the construction, of the text of the statute, but what the true text was,
and we are not now required to consider whether that decision
can be reconciled with later cases, in which this court has held
that an act of the legislature of a State, which has been held
by its highest court not to be a statute of the State, because
not duly enacted, cannot e held by the courts of the United
States, upon the same evidence, to be a law of the State.
,souta Ottawa v. Perkins, 941 U. S. 260, Post v Supervisors,
105 U. S. 667. See also -Norton,v. Shtiby County, 118 U. S.
425, 440.
In .Leffingwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599, 603, Mfr. Justice
Swayne, speaking for the court, laid down, and supported by
references to. earlier decisions, the following propositions

OCTOBER TERAI, 1802.
Opinion of the -Court

"The courts of the United States, in the absence of legislation
upon the subject by Congress, recognize the statutes of limitations of the several States, and give them the same construction and effect which are given by the local tribunals. They
are a rule of decision under the 34th section of the Judicial
Act of 1789. The construction given to a statute of a State
by the highest judicial tribunal of such State is regarded as
a part of the statute, and is as binding upon the courts of the
United States as the text. If the hrghest judicial tribunal of
a State adopt new views as to the proper construction of such
.%statute, apd reverse its former decisions, this court will follow
the latest dettled adjudications."
In .Tevy v Stewart, 11 Wall. 244, which arose in Louisiana,
the question was not of the construction of the terms of a
statute of limitations, but of an implied exception, by reason
of the effect of the state of war existing during the rebellion,
while the courts of the States held by the rebels were closed to
the citizens of the rest of the Union, and this court declined
to be bound by decisions of the courts of Louisiana restricting
such effect, because they were inconsistent with its own earlier
decisions in Ranger v Abbott, 6 Wall. 532, and Te Protetor,
9 Wall. 687, which had dealt with that question as one of
public and international law, upon which this court is never
obliged to accept the opinion of the state courts. Huntngton,
v. Attriq, 146 UI S. 657, 683.
In Tioga ?ailroad v L'lossburg d Cornmg Railroad, 20
Wall. 137, 143, this court, following the decisions of the Court
of Appeals of New York, held that a foreign corporation
could not avail itself of the statute of limitations of that
State, and Mr. Justice Bradley, in delivering judgment, said
"These decisions upon the construction of the statute are
binding upon us, whatever we may think of their soundness
on general principles."
In Amy v Dubuque, 98 U. S. 470, 471, Mr. Justice.,ufarlan,
summing up the. result of the previous decisions in the very
words of some of them, said that "it is not to be questioned
that laws limiting the time of bringing suit constitute a part
of the kexforz of every country, they are laws for administer-

BAUSERMA \ v. BLUNT.
Opinon of the Court.

ing justice, one of the most sacred and important of sovereign
rights ," and that it is as little to be questioned that "the
courts of the United States, in the absence of legislation upon.
the subject by Congress, recognize the statutes of limitations
of the several Stat6, and give them the same construction
and effect which are given by the local tribunals."
Upon the question how far a saving clause as to married
women in a statute/of limitations is affected by a subsequent
statute of the State enlarging the rights of -married women,
this court, xvtwo comparatively recent cases, has come to,
differing,,zonclusions by f.ollowing in each case a single decision made by the highest court of the State since the case
was brought to this court from the Circuit Court of the
United States. Kibbe v. Ditto, 93 U.. S. 674, Moores v Nrational Bank, 104 U S. 625.
In Xibbe v Ditto, which arose in Illinois, the course of decision in the highest court of the State was shown to be as follows
In Emerson v Clayton, 32 Illinois, 493, in which the statute of
limitations was not in question, the decision was that a married woman might maintain replevin for her chattels, without
joining her husband, because, as the court said, the subsequent
statute which gave her the right of sole control over her separate property "necessarily confers the power to do whatever
i necessary to the effectual assertion and maintenance of that
right." But in Rose v Sanderson, 38 Illinois, 247, and in
Cole v Fan Ripe; 44 Illinois, 58, it was decided that the
married woman's act did not affect an estate by the curtesy
vested in a husband at the time of its passage, and it was
directly adjudged in forrzson v. Norman, 47 Illinois, 477, and
again distinctly asserted in _oble v .Mcar'land,'51 Illinois,
226, that as to real estate in which the husband had a tenancy
by the curtesy, the statute of limitations did not run against
the wife until after his death. Such wqs the state of the law
in Illinois when the Circuit Court of the United States in
Mibbe v- Ditto held that the statute of limitations ran against
the wife in the husband's lifetime, and its judgment was
affirmed by this court solely because of a subsequent decision
of the Supreme Court of Illinois m Osatner v Valrod, (since

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

reported -in 83 Illinois, 171,) reviewing and modifying .or overruling the earlier cases in that State, and which, this court
said, "establishes a rule of property in Illinois, which binds
the.courts of the Unitbd States and presents an insuperable
bar." 93 U. S. 680.
In Aoores v National Bank, which arose in Ohio, a judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States holding, in
accordance with a previous decision of the Superior Court of
Cincinnati, that the saving clause in favor of married women
in the statute of limitations of Ohio was repealed by a subsequent statute authorizing a married woman to sue alone in
actions concerning her separate property, was reversed by
this court, without any discussion of the merits of the question, because.a subsequent decision of the Supreme Court of
the State, holding that the statute of limitations did not, at the
least, begin to run against a married woman until after the
passage of the later statute, should be followed by this court.
104: U. S. 629.
What, then, are the decisions of 'the Supreme Court of
Kansas upon the two questions presented by this record?
Upon the question relating-to the debtor's personal absence
from the State in his lifetime, it is to be observed that the
saving clause of the statute speaks only of where the debtor
is, and does not (like the statute of New York which governed
Penfeld v Chesapeake &e. Railroad, 134: U. S. 351, and
Barney.v Oelrwhs, 138 U. S. 529,) use the word "reside" or
"resideice." The words of the Kansas statute are "if he be
out of the State," "until he comes into the State," "if he
depart from the State," and "-the time of his absence." When
this case was before the Circuit Court, it was clearly settled
by a uniform series of decisions of the Supreme Court of Kansas, extending over a period of twenty years, that the words
of the statute were to have their natural meaning, and that
personal.absence of the debtor, even if he retained a residence
within the State at which process against him might be served,
was sufficient to take the case out of the statute. Lane v.
N'ational Bank, 6 Kansas, 74.; Hoggett v. Emerson, 8 Kansas,
181, -Morrell v Ingle, 23 Kansas, 32; Conlon v Lanphear,

BAUSERAT v. BLUNT.
Opinion of the Court.

37 Kansas, 431. The later decisions of that court recognize
the same rule. ChA-cago c. Railway v. Cook, 43 Kansas, 83,
Bauserma v Charlott,46 Kansas, 480, 482.
The Supreme Court of the adjoining State of Nebraska,
indeed, as the plaintiff in error has pointed out, has held a
precisely similar provision of its own statute of limitations
not to include the case of a debtor temporarily absent from
the State, and having a usual place of residence therein at
which a summons to him might be served. Nebraska Code
of Civil Procedure, § 20; Blodgett v. Utley, 4 Nebraska, 25,
_Fo .bes v. Thomas, 22 Nebraska, 541. But what may be -the
law of Nebraska is immaterial. The case at bar is governed
by the law of Kansas, and the duty of this court to 'ollow as
a rule of decision the settled construction by the highest court
of Kansas of a statute of that State is not affected by the
adoption of a different construction of a similar statute in
Nebraska or in any other State. Shelby v Guy, 11 Wheat.
361, 361, Chrzsty v. Pndgeo, 4 Wall. 196, 203,
wnon Bank
v KansasBank, 136 U. S. 223, 235.
It was therefore rightly held by the Circuit Court that the
statute of limitations did not run while the debtor was personally absent from the State, notwithstanding that he continued
to have a usual place of residence in the State, where service
of a summons could be made on him.
The question whether the statute .of 'limitations ceased to
run from the death of the debtor until the appointment of his
administrator,, four years and more than four months afterwards, requires more consideration.
In the absence of express statute or controlling adjudication
to the contrary, two general rules are well settled. 1st. When
the statute of limitations "hasonce begun to run, its operation
is not suspended by a subsequent disability to sue. T'alden
v Gratz, 1 Wheat. 292, if1ercer v.,Selden, 1 How 37, Harms
v Mo Govern, 99 U.-S. 161, .Yo-Donald v -Hovey, 110 U. S.
619. 2d. The bar of the statute cannot be postponed by the
failure of the creditor to avail himself of any means within his
power to prosecute or to preserve his claim. Richards v.
.Maryland Ins. Co., 8 Cranch, 81, Braun v. Sauerwezn, 10
voL. cxLvir-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

Wall. 218, United States v Wiley, 11 Wall. 508, 513, 514,
Eirby v. Zake Sikore & 32ficksgan Southeva Railroad,120 U. S.
130, 140, Amy v Watertown, 130 U. S. 320, 325.
But the Supreme Court' 7 f Kansas has always held that the
death of the debtor suspends the operation of the statute of
limitations. Toby v. Allen, 3 Kansas, 399, HManson v Towle,
19 Kansas, 273, -Nelson v. _Merkel, 30 Kansas, 456. In each
of those cases it was said that the operation of the statute was
suspended until an administrator had been appointed ; -and
they were evidently the foundation of the ruling of the Circuit
Court in this case that the statute of limitations was suspended
from the debtor's death until the appointment of his administrator.
But those cases, when examined; do not disclose any intention to decide or to intimate that the operation of the statute
of limitations would be suspended during a longer time, between the death of the debtor and the appointment of an
administrator, than would be sufficient to enable the creditor
to have an administrator appointed. In Toby v. Allen, and in
Hanson v Towle, there is nothing to show that an administrator was not appointed as soon as possible after the debtor's
death. And in NYelson v. ilerkel, although it appears in the
statement of the case that four years and nearly nine months
had elapsed between the debtor's death and the administrator's
appointment, that fact does not appear to have been urged by
counsel, or regarded by the court, which treated the case as
governed by its previous decisions.
The cases of Green v. Goble, 7 Kansas, 297, Oarney v
Ravens, 23 Kansas, 82, and 3fills v .AXills, 43 Kansas, 699,
cited at the argument of the present case, related to the death
of the creditor, not of the debtor, and have no important bearing on this case.
Since the judgment of the Circuit Court in the case at bar,
the Supreme Court of Kansas, upon careful and elaborate
examination of the question, has held that an action by
another creditor against this defendant was barred by the
statute, because the plaintiff had unreasonably delayed to
apply for the appointment of an administrator. Chief Justice

BAUSERMAT v. BLUNT.
Opinion of the Court.

Horton, (who had delivered the opinion in lYelson v Rerkel,)
after referring to the cases, mentioned above, as holding that
the "death of the debtor operates to suspend the statute,"
added "But this court has never said, when the question was
properly presented, that the creditor can indefinitely prolong
the time of limitation by his own omission or refusal to act, or
that the death of the debtor operates to suspend the statute of
limitations indefinitely" lHe then referred to a number of
authorities, and among others to the statement of Mr. Justice
Bradley, speaking for this court, in Amy v Watertown, above
cited, that "when a party knows that he has a cause of action,
it is his own fault if he does not avail himself of those means
which the law provides for prosecuting his claim or instituting such proceedings as the law regards sufficient to preserve it," ' and to the decisions in Atehnson &c. Railroad v
Burlingame Township, 36 Kansas, 628, 633, and in Bork v
-DouglassCounty, 46 Kansas, 175, 181, as establishing that "a
person cannot prevent the operation of the statute of limitations by delay in taking action incumbent upon him" and that
"to permit a long and indefinite postponement would tend to
defeat the purpose of the statutes of limitation, which are
statutes of repose, founded on sound policy, and which should
be so construed as to advance the policy they were designed
to promote." "Following these decisions," the Chief Justice
concluded that the plaintiff's claim was barred by the statute,
and said "The reasonable time within which a creditor, having a claim against a decedent, and wishing to establish the
same against his estate, should make application for administration would be, under the statute, fifty days after the decease
of the intestate, or at least within a reasonable time after the
expiration of fifty days. But a creditor cannot, as in this case,
postpone the appointment for months and years, and then
recover upon his claim. If he can do so for several months or
severgl years, he can do so-for any indefinite length of time,
and then resort to administration and establish his claim.
This is not in accord with the policy of the statutes, nor with
our prior decisions." Bauserman v Cha2,ott, 46 Kansas, 480,
483-486.

OCTOBER TERMVr, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

That decision was evidently deliberately considered and
carefully stated, with the purpose of finally putting at rest
a question on which some doubt had existed, it is supported
by satisfactory reasons, and is in accord with well settled
principles, and there is no previous adjudication of that Court
to the contrary In every point of view, therefore, it should
be accepted by this Court as conclusively settling that the
operation of the statute of limitations of Kansas is suspended
after the death of the debtor for the fifty days only, during
which the creditor could not apply for the appointment of an
administrator, or, at most, for a reasonable time after the
expiration of the fifty days.
It remains only to apply the rule thus established to the
facts of this case, as alleged in the petition and admitted by
the demurrer. Taking the statement of those facts as strongly
as possible in favor of the plaintiff, the time which elapsed
from the mattirity of the note on July 2, 1875, to the commencement of this action on February 13, 1886, was ten years,
seven months and eleven days, the allegation that the debtor
before his death was absent from the State "for more than
five years" cannot be treated as definitely describing a longer
period than five years and one day, and after deducting that
period there remain five years, seven months and ten days;
from which, if we deduct the five years' period of limitation,
as well as the fifty days next after the debtor's death, during
which the creditor could not have applied for administration,
there still remain five months and twenty days.
It is argued for the plaintiff that this was not more than
a reasonable time within which he might have applied for the
appointment of an administrator after the'expiration of the
fifty days from the death. To this there are two answers:
First, the plaintiff did not so apply within that time, nor was
any administrator appointed until almost four years afterwards; and it is hard to see how any reasonable time to enable
the plaintiff to have an administrator appointed can be computed in his favor when he has taken no steps whatever to
that end. Second, if a reasonable time for that purpose,
although the plaintiff did not avail himself of it, can be con-

