OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

FLEITAS

.

RICHARDSON, (No. ,I.)

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 29. Argued April 14,1892. -Decided March 6,1893.
In executory process, according to the Civil Code of Louisiana, in the Circuit Court of the United States, an order, made without previous notice,
for the seizure and sale of mortgaged land to pay the mortgage debt,
under which the sale cannot take place until the debtor has had notice
and opportunity to interpose objections, is not, at least when he does
interpose within the time allowed, a final decree, from which an appeal lies
to this court.

THis *as a bill in equity, filed-June 29, 1888, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, by Gilbert M. Richardson, a citizen of New York, against
Francis B. Fleitas, a citizen of Louisiana, and residing in that
district, for a seizure and sale of mortgaged lands in the parish
of St. Bernard in that district, under executory process, in
accordance with the provisions of the Louisiana Code of Practice, the material parts of which are copied in the margin.1
1 ART. 63. When the hypothecated property is in the hand of the debtor,
and when the creditor, besides his hypothecary right, has against his
debtor a title importing a confession of judgment, he shall be entitled to
have the hypothecated property seized immediately and sold for the payment of his debt, including the capital, the interest and the costs, pursuant to the rules provided hereafter for executory proceedings.
ART. 98. The proceedings are ordinary, when citation takes place, and all
the delays and forms of law are observed. They are executory, when seizure is obtained against the property of the debtor, without previous citation, in virtue of an act or title importing confession of judgment, or in
other cases provided by law.
ART. 732. Executory process can only be resorted to in the following
cases:
1st. When the creditor's right arises from an act importing a confession
of judgment, and which contains a privilege of mortgage In his favor. '
. 2d. When the creditor demands the execution of a judgment which has
been rendered by a tribunal of this State, different from that within whose
jurisdiction the execution is sought.

FLEITAS v. RIOHARDSON, (No. 1.)
Statement of the Case.

The bill alleged that the defendant, on January 28, 1884,
executed and delivered to the plaintiff five promissory notes
for $12,600 each, payable to the plaintiff's order on January
1, in 1885, 1886, 1887, 1888 and 1889, respectively, with interest
The proceeding by provisional seizure (attachment) or in rem resembles
in some sort the executory process, but should not be confounded with it,
as they are subject to different rules.
AnT. 733. An act is said to import a confession of judgment in matters
of privilege and mortgage, when it is passed before a notary public, or
other officer fulfilling the same functions, in the presence of two witnesses,
and the debtor has declared or acknowledged the debt for' which he gives
the privilege or mortgage.
ART. 734. When the creditor is in possession of such an act, he may-proceed against the debtor or his heirs, by causing the property subject to the
privilege or mortgage to be seized and sold, on a simple petition, and without a previous citation of the debtor.
ART. 735. In obtaining this order of seizure, It shall suffice to give three
days' notice to the debtor, counting from that on which the notice is given,
If he resides on the spot, adding a day for every twenty miles between the
place of his residence and the residence of the judge to whom the petition
has been presented.
AnT. 738. The debtor, against whom this order of seizure shall have
been rendered, may obtain an injunction to suspend the sale, if before the
time of sale he files in. the court issuing the order his opposition in writing,
alleging some of the reasons contained in the following article, and of
which he shall swear to the truth.
ART. 739. The debtor can only arrest the sale of the thing thus seized,
by alleging some of the following reasons, to wit:
1. That he has paid the debt for which he is sued;
2. That he has been remitted by the creditor;
3. That it has been extinguished by transaction, novation, or some other
legal manner;
4. That time has been granted to him for paying the debt, although .this
circumstance be not mentioned in the contract;
5. That the act containing the privilege or mortgage is forged;
6. That it was obtained by fraud, violence, fear, or some other unlawful
means;
7. That he has a liquidated account to plead in compensation to the debt
claimed;
8. And finally, that the action for the recovery of the debt is barred by
prescription.
ART. 740. When the judge'grants an injunction; on the allegation under
oath of any of the reasons mentioned in the preceding article, he shall
require no surety from the defendant, but he sliall pronounce summarily on ,
the merits of his opposition if the plaintiff requires it.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

at the yearly rate of eight per cent; and on the same day, by
authentic act of mortgage, passed before a notary public in
the presence of two witnesses, (a copy of which was annexed
to the bill,) mortgaged the lands in question, to secure the
payment of these notes, which were duly paraphed by the
notary ne varietur to identify them with the act of mortgage,
and that the last two notes (copies of which, with the paraph
of tho notary thereon, were also annexed to the bill,) and interest since July 1, 1887, had not been paid; that Shattuck &
Hoffman, a commercial firm named in the mortgage, had no
interest in these notes, and the plaintiff believed they had no
interest in the act of mortgage; and that under these notes
and the mortgage there was past due and owing to the plaintiff the sums of $27,216, with interest since January 1, 1888,
on $25,200 thereof at the rate of eight per cent, and on $2016
thereof at the rate of five per cent.
The copy of the act of mortgage, annexed to the bill,
*showed that it was made to secure the payment of the notes
to the plaintiff, and also to secure the payment to Shattuck &
Hoffman of advances made by them to the defendant, under
a written agreement between them and him of the same
date, not exceeding the amount of, his debt to the plaintiff;
and authorized the mortgagees, in case any of the debts
thereby secured should not be paid at maturity, to cause the
mortgaged property "to be seized and sold under executory
process, without appraisement, to the highest bidder for cash,
hereby confessing judgment in favor of said mortgagees, and
of such person or persons as may be the holder or holders of
said promissory notes, and all assigns of said Shattuck & Hoffman, for the full amount thereof, capital and interest, t6gether
with all costs, charges, and expenses whatsoever;"1 and further
provided that, in the event of a foreclosure of the mortgage and
sale of the premises, "then out of 'the proceeds of said sale the
said indebtedness to said Gilbert M. Richardson, whether held
by said G. M. Richardson or his hssigns, shall'be paid by
priority over said indebtedness due or to become due to said
Shattuck & Hoffman or their successors and assigns."
Upon-the filing of the bill, on June 29, 1888, the court

FILEITAS v. RICHAIlDSON, (No. 1.)
Statement of the Case.

inade the following order: "Let a writ of seizure and-sale
issue herein, as prayed for, and according to law, to satisfy
complainant's demands as set forth in the foregoing bill and
petition. Let the marshal seize and take into his possession
according to law the property described in the foregoing
petition, and then let the sale of this property be stayed till
the further orders of this court."
On June 30, 1888, the clerk of the court issued to the
defendant, and, the marshal served upon him,, a notice in thse
terms: "Take notice that payment is demanded of you,
within three days from the service hereof, of the amount
specified in the writ of seizure and sale granted on the bill
of complaint herein, a copy of *hich accompanies thig notice,
with interest and costs; and, in default of payment within
that delay, the property referred to in said bill of complaint
will be seized and sold according to law, subject to the order
on said bill. A further delay of one diy for every twenty
miles distance from your domicil to this city, at which place
this court is held, is allowed you by law."
-On the same day, the defendant, appearing for that purpose
only, prayed for, and was refused, an appeal or writ of error
from that order to this court.
At the next term of the Circuit Court, on November 19;
1888, the defendant, appearing for the purpose of the motion
only, moved that all th6 orders and proceedings in-the case be'
quashed and set aside, for want of jurisdiction, and also because, if the Circuit Court had authority under any circumstances to issue executory process, no case was made in the
bill for issuing it, for want of authentic evidence, inasmuch as
the mortgage appeared upon its face to have been made to
include a private agreement between the defendant and Shar
tuck & Hoffman, (a copy 'of which, verified by his oath, was
annexed to the motion;) and also. "making known unto the '
court that he Will make no other and further appearance or
pleading heiein, at all times believing the proceeding void in
law and this court without jurisdiction over the same," and
praying that, if theF court should refuse to quash the proceedings, he might be allowed an appeal to this court from the
order of seizure and sale.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

On November 22, a writ was issued to the marshal, commanding him to seize and take into his possession, according
to law, the property described in the mortgage, and to sell it
to satisfy the plaintiff's demands as set forth in the bill, and
repeated in the writ; "said sale to be for cash, without appraisement, and said sale to be stayed until the further orders
of the court, under its order dated June 29, 1888, on the bill
herein;" and to make return of his proceedings to the court.
On November 24, the plaintiff moved to strike the defendant's motion from the files, as not being allowed by the rules
of the court, or by the laws of Louisiana; and the court
denied the motion to quash, as well as the motion to strike
from the files, but granted the appeal, upon the defendant
giving bond in an amount to be fixed by the court, and referred the case to a master to report the facts to enable the
court to determine that amount.
On-the returr of the master's report, the court, on December 7,1888, made the following order: "This cause came on
to be heard, and was argued by counsel; whereupon the court,
on consideration. thereof, and further reconsidering the whole
matter with reference to the order or decree awarding executory process herein, and the defendant's applications for appeal
therefrom, doth now order that so much of the order of June
29, 1888, awarding executory process herein, as directs the
marshal to stay the sale of the property directed to be seized
till the further orders of the court, be stricken out; and that
all orders made subsequently to the date of the defendant's
application for an appeal on June 80, 1888, except the order
of reference to the master to report the facts upon which the
amount of bond could be determined and fixed, be revoked;
and that an appeal, to operate as a supersedeas, be allowed to
said defendant *unc _pro tune as of said 30th day of June,.
1888, according to his petition then presented, on his giving
bond as required by law, with good and solvent surety, in the
sum of one thousand dollars.. And it is further ordered that
the marshal, on the filing of such bond, release.from seizure
the property he has seized herein, and .that the exceptions
to the order of reference be overruled."

FLEITAS v. RICHARDSON, (No. 1.)
Opinion of the Court.

On the 'same day, the defendant gave bond accordingly to
prosecute his appeal to'this court "from the decree rendered
on June 29, 1-888."
.Mr. J. 1. Beckwith for appellant.
-Mr. Thomas . Sipn res for, appellee.
Mit. JUSTiCE GRAY, after, stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

At October term, 1888, this court denied a motion to
dismiss or affirm, submitted on briefs under iRule 6. But on
fuller consideration of the case, and in the light of the oral
arguments of counsel, we are constrained (although the question is not free from difficulty,) to hold that this court has no
jurisdiction, because the order appealed from is not a final
judgment or decree.
By the Louisiana Code of Practice, an act of mortgage,
passed before a notary public in the presence of two witnesses,
with an acknowledgment and identification of the debt thereby,
secured, imports a confession of judgment, upon which the
creditor is entitled to executory process, and to obtain, without previous citation to the debtor, an order for the seizure
and sale of the mortgaged property for the payment of the
debt. Arts. 63, 98, 732, 733, 734. But the clerk of the court
is required to give notice of this order to the- debtor three
days before the sale, adding a day for every twenty miles
between the place of his residence and the place where the
court is held, Art. 735. If such notice is not given to the
debtor, the proceeding is erroneous. Saillard v. TW/ite, 14
Louisiana; 84; Hart v. Pike, 29 La. Ann. 262. The debtor
may obtain an injunction to suspend the sale, if before the
time of sale he files in the court his opposition in writing
under oath, alleging that the debt hds been paid, or remitted,
or extinguished, or that the time of payment 'has been
extended, or that the act of mortgage is forged, or -obtained
by fraud, violence, or other unlawful means, or that he has a

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

.liquidated account to plead in compensation, or that the action
for. the debt is barred by prescription. Arts. 738, 79.
The provisions of that code, making the acknowledgmeiit
of the debt and mortgage, in solemn form before a notary
public, conclusive evidence, upon which,' without previous
notice to the debtor, the creditor may obtain an order for the
seizure and sale of the mortgaged lands to satisfy his -debt,
bear some analogy to proceedings, (never denied tQ be due
process of law,) which were well known where the common
law prevailed, before the adoption of the Constitution of the
United States- such as the recognizances called statute merchant and statute staple in England, and similar recognizances
in Massachusetts, taken before a court or magistrate, and upon
which, when recorded, execution might issue without previous
notice to the debtor, and be levied upon his lands -or goods.
2 BI.Oom. 160, 341, 342; Bac. Ab: Execution, B; The Zhing
v. Giles, 8 Price, 293, 316, 351; Mass. Stat. 1782, c. 21; Albee
v- Ward, 8 Mass. 79, 84; Rev. Stat. c. 118; Gen. Stat. c. 152;
Pub. Stat. c. 193.
In Louisiana, however, the act before the notary, as well as
the order for seizure and 'sale, includes no lands but those
described in the mortgage; and, although the creditor may
obtain that order without previous notice to the debtor, the
sale cannot take place until the debtor has had notice and
opportunity to interpose objections.
This proceeding, therefore, is a civil suit intMjpartes,which,
where the parties are citizens of different States, is-within the
jurisdiction conferred by Congress on the Circuit Court of the
United States. Act of September 24, 1.789, c. 20, § 11, 1. Stat.
7.9; Rev. Stat. § 739; Acts of March 3,-1875, c. 137, § 1, 18
Stat. 4"70; March 3, 1887, c. 373, § 1, 24 Stat. 552; August
13, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 434 ;'Toland v. Sprague, 12 Pet. 300;
Levy v. Fitzpatriek, 15 Pet. 167; Chazffee v. Hayward, 20
How. 208, 215.; l farin v. Lalley,. 17 Wall. 14. And the
proceeding, though in summary form, is inthe nature of a bill
in equity for 'the foreclosure of .a mortgage, and clearly
belongs on the equity side of that court. Rrew8ter v. Wakef&eld, 22 How. 118, 128; Walker v. Drevilk, 12 Wall. 440;

FLEITAS v. RICHARDSON, (No. 1.)
Opinion of the Court.

Zfarin v. Lalley, 17 Wall. 14; Idaho & Oregon Co. v. Bradbury, 132 U. S. 509, 515.
The debtor being entitled to notice and hearing before an
actual sale of the property, it would seem, upon principle,
that the order for a sale must be considered as interlocutory
only, and not the final decree in the. case, at least when the
debtor does, within the time allowed by the code, come in
and contest the validity of the proceedings. .McGourkey v.
Toledo & Ohio Railway, 146 U. S. 636, 545, 547, 549, and
cases there cited.
By the decisions of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, indeed,
such an order, "exhausting the power of the court quoad the
application," although its execution may be stayed on the
opposition of the debtor, is subject to appeal, under the practice in-that State. Louisiana Code of Practice, arts. 565,'566;
Harrodv. Voorhies, 16 Louisiana, 254 ; .Mitchellv. Logan, 34
La. Ann. 998, 1003 ; Ralston v. British & American.3fortgage
Co., 37 La. Ann. 193. But the practice or the decisions of the
State in this respect cannot control the appellate jurisdiction of
this court from the Circuit Court of the United States, as defined by act of Congress. Rev. Stat. § 691; Luxton v. _V.ortk
River Bridge, ante, 337, 341.
Upon the question whether the order of seizure and sale
was a final judgment, the case of Levy v. Fitzpatrick,above
cited, is much in point, and was fully discussed in the opinion
delivered by Mr. Justice McKinley, who was peculiarly familiar with the law of Louisiana. In that case, a writ of error
to reverse the order of seizure and sale, made without previous
notice to the debtors, was dismissed, for want of jurisdiction;
and Mr. Justice McKinley, speaking for the whole court,
said:
"Had this proceeding taken place before a judge of competent authority in Louisiana, the debtors might have appealed
from the order of the judge to the Supreme Court of that
State; and that court might, according' to the laws of Louisiana, have examined and decided upon the errors which have
been assigned here. But there is a marked and radical difference between the jurisdiction of the courts of Louisiana, and
VoL. cn v0-Vn35

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

those of the United States. By the former, no regard is paid
to the citizenship of the parties; and in such a case as this,
no process is necessary to bring the debtors before the court.
They having signed and acknowledged the authentic act,
according to the forms of the law of Louisiana, are, for all
the purposes of obtaining executory process, presumed to be
before the judge. Louisiana Code of Practice, arts. 733, 734.
An appeal will lie to the Supreme Court of Louisiana from
any interlocutory or incidental order, made in the progress
of the cause, which might produce irreparable injury. State
v. Lewis, 9 Martin, 301, 302; Brousa8rdv. Fralian,4 Martin,
489; Gurlie v. Coquet, 3 Martin (N.S.) 498; Seghers v. Antheream, I Martin (N. S.) 73; State v. Pitot, 12 Martin,
485."
But, as the judge went on to say, "the jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States is limited by law, and can only be
exercised in specified cases." He then observed that by the
Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20, § 11, giving the Circuit Court of
the United States original jurisdiction of suits at common law
or in equity between citizens of different States, no judgment
could be rendered by a Circuit Court against any defendant
not served with process, unless he waived the necessity of
service by entering his appearance in the suit: and that, by
section 22 of the same act, only final judgments of the Circuit
Court could be reviewed by this court on writ, of error; and
added: "It is obvious that the debtors were not before the
judge, in this case, by the service of process, or-by voluntary
appearance, when he granted the executory process. In that
aspect 'of the case, then, the order could not be regarded as a
final judgment, Within the meaning of the twenty-second
section of the statute. But was the order a final judgment,
according to the laws of Louisiana? The fact of its being
subject to appeal does not prove that it was, as has already
been shown. Nor could it, .per se, give to the ekeoution of the
process, ordered by the judge, the dignity of a judicial sale.
Unless at least three days' previous notice were given to the
debtors, the sale would, be utterly void. -Grant v. Walden, 6
Louisiana, 623, 631. This proves that some other act was.

FLEITAS v. RICHARDSON, (No. 1.)
Opinion of the Court.

necessary, on the part of the plaintiffs, to entitle .them to the
fruits of their judgment by confession. And in that act is involved. the merits of the whole case; because, upon that notice,
the debtors had a right to come into court and file their petition, which is technically called an opposition, and set up, as
matter of defence, everything that could be assigned for error .
here, and pray for an injunction to stay the executory process
till the matter of the petition could be heard and determined.
And upon an answer to the petition coming in, the whole
merits of the case between the parties, including the necessary questions of jurisdiction, might have been tried, and final
judgment rendered. Code of Practice, Arts. 738, 739. From.
this view of the case, we think the order, granting executory
process cannot be regarded as anything more than a judgment
nir. To such a judgment a writ of error would not lie. The
writ V error in this case must therefore be dismissed." 15
Pet. 170-172.
The single ground of that decision, as appears by these
extracts from the opinion, was that there had been no final
judgment in the Circuit Court. The point that the case,
though coming from the State of Louisiana, where the distinction between common law and equity is not preserved, yet,
being essentially a suit in equity in the Circuit Court of ihe
United States, should have been brought to this court by
appeal, and not by. writ of error, was hot considered or noticed,
and had not then been decided, although it is now well settled.
McCollum v. Eager, 2 How. 61; Walker v.,Dreville, 12 Wall.
440 ; ifarin v. Lalley, 17 Wall. 14.
In MHarin v. Ia/ley, above cited, the order of seizure and
sale was made by the Circuit Court on March 28, 1872; the
defendants afterwards came in, filed various objections, oppositions and answers, and prayed thht the proceedings might be
quashed; the court, on June 3, ordered that "the objections
and answers of the defendants to the order of seizure and.sale
be overruled;" and the defendants, on June 13, appealed (as
appears on referring to the record) from "the order for
executory process, entered herein on the 28th dhy-of March,
1872, and made final on the 3d day of' June, 1872, by judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of this honorable court." The appeal taken by the
defendants in that case, and which this court refused to dismiss on motion, was not an appeal from the original order of
Mffarch 28, but from that' order as made final by the judgment
of June 3, and was, therefore, an appeal from that judgment.
It was of this final order, made after notice to and opposition
by the defendants, that Chief Justice Chase, in delivering
judgment, said: "It is in substance a decree of foreclosure
and sale, which has repeatedly been held to be a final decree."
"If there were any doubt as to the finality of the original
order, there can be none that it became final when the answer
and objections were overruled. That order seems to have been
made contradictorily with the debtors. Their opposition was
overruled, and their property decreed to be seized and sold to
pay their debts." And he distinguished Levy v. Fitzvpatrek,
above cited, on the ground that the order there held not to be
a final judgment was "the original order, without the three
days' notice, and without any act on the part of the debtors."
17 Wall. 17, 18.
The present case appears to us to be governed by Levj v.
farin
"-Fitzjatrick,and to be likewise distinguishable from
v. 1alley.
The original order of the Circuit Court for a seizure and
sale was made June 29, 1888, and directed the marshal to
seize the property, but to stay the sale until the further orders
of the court. On June 30, a notice, together with a copy of
the bill and order, was issued by the clerk and served on the
defendant; and the defendant, appearing specially for the
purpose, prayed for an appeal from that-order, which was
denied. These were all the proceedings which took place at
the first term.
At the next term, the defendant, on November 19; again
appearing specially, moved to quash the proceedings, and, if
,that should be refused, renewed his prayer for an appeal from
the order of June 29. The writ of seizure and sale was not
issued to the marshal until November 22, and directed that
the sale should be stayed until the further orders of the court,
under its former order. On November 24, the court denied

FLEITAS v. RICHARDSON, (No.I.)
Opinion of the Court.

the motion to quash, and granted the appeal, upon the defendant giving bond in an amount to be determined. On December 7, the court,-reconsidering the whole matter with reference
to the order of June 29, and to the defendant's application of
June 30 for an appeal from that order, ordered that so much
of that order, as directed the marshal. to stay the sale until the
further orders of the court, be stricken out ;and that an appeal,
to operate as a supersedeas, be allowed to the defendant nunc
.protune as of June 30, 1888, on his giving bond in the sum of
$1000. The defendant gave bond accordingly to prosecute his
appeal "from the decree rendered on June 29, 1888."
It thus clearly appears that the only appeal claimed- by the
defendant was from the original order of seizure and sale of
June 29, 1888, made before nbtice to the defendant, and was
allowed, as of June 30, upon the application which he had
then- made, as soon as he had notice of that order; and that
no appeal was, in'terms oi' by implication, -claimed, applied
for, allowed or taken from the order of December 7, which
was the final order of the Circuit Court in this case.
It necessarily follows that the order appealed from was not
a final decree, and that the appeal must be dismissed for want
of jurisdiction.
We are the more ready to accept this conclusion, because we
have no doubt that if, upon this record, the appeal could be
treated as having been taken from the final decree of December 1, no reason is shown for reversing the judgment ofthe
Circuit Court. The only objections taken below to the order
and proceedings, as appears by the motion to quash, were that
the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction, and that there was no
authentic evidende of the debt to Shattuck & Hoffman, secured by the same mortgage as the notes to the plaintiff.
But that the Circuit Court, sitting in equity, had jurisdiction
of the case, has been already shown. And there being authentic evidence of the plaintiff's debt, the want of like evidence of
the separate and distinct debt to Shattuck- & Hoffman, which
by the express terms of the mol:tgage was subordinate to the
debt to the plaintiff, is immaterial. Cambliss .v. Atchison, 2
La. Ann. 488, 491; -Renshaw v .1iohard, 30 La. Anti. 398;

