ST. CLAIR V. COX.

[Sup. Ct.

ST. CLAn v. Cox.
1. The courts of the United States do not regard as valid or as importing verity
a judgment in persanam rendered by a State court for the recovery of a debt
or demand, unless the defendant either entered a voluntary appearance,
or he or some one authorized to receive process for him was personally
cited to appear. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714, cited and approved, and
the doctrines announced in that case declared to be applicable to personal
judgments against corporations.
2. Michigan permits foreign corporations to transact business within her limits,
and when a suit by attachment is brought against one of them by a resident
of the State, she authorizes the service of a copy of the writ, with a copy of
the inventory of the property attached, on "any officer, member, clerk, or
agent of such corporation" within the State, and declares that a personal
service of a copy of the writ and of the inventory on one of these persons,
shall have the force and effect of personal service of a summons on a defendant in suits commenced by summons. A., a resident, sued out of the
Circuit Court of a county an attachment against a foreign corporation, and
the officer to whom the writ was directed returned that by virtue of it he
had seized and attached certain property, and served a copy of the writ,
with a copy of the inventory of the attached property, on the defendant,
by delivering the same personally, in said county, to B., agent of the said
defendant. No appearance was entered by the corporation, and A. recovered a judgment in personamfor the amount of his demand. The record of
it was in another suit offered in evidence to support a plea of set-off, and
an objection was made to its admissibility that the court which rendered
the judgment had not jurisdiction of the parties. Held, 1. That the record
was properly excluded, it not appearing therefrom that the corporation
was doing business in the State at the time of the service of the writ on B.
2. Had that fact appeared, the corporation might have shown that his relations to it did not justify such service.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr.Charles I.Walker for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Henry H. Duffield and 1iTr. Levi T. Gr 'n for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE FmLD delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought
to recover the amount due
fendants, each for the sum
August, 1877, and payable

by the plaintiff in the court below,
on two promissory notes of the deof $2,500, bearing date on the 2d of
five months after date, to the order

Oct. 1882.]

ST. CLAIR V. COX.

of the Winthrop Mining Company, at the German National
Bank, in Chicago, with interest at the rate of seven per cent
per annum.
To the action the defendants set up various defences, and,
among others, substantially these: That the consideration of
the notes had failed; that they were given, with two others of
like tenor and amount, to the Winthrop Mining Company, a
corporation created under the laws of Illinois, in part payment
for ore and other property sold to the defendants upon a representation as to its quantity, which proved to be incorrect; that
only a portion of the quantity sold was ever delivered, and
that the value of the deficiency exceeded the amount of the
notes in suit; that at the commencement of the action,
and before the transfer of the notes to the plaintiff, the
Winthrop Mining Company was indebted to the defendants
in a large sum, viz. $10,000, upon a judgment recovered
by them in the Circuit Court of Marquette County, in the
State of Michigan, and that the notes were transferred to him
after their maturity and dishonor, and after he had notice of
the defences to them.
On the trial, evidence was given by the defendants tending
to show that the plaintiff was not a bona fide holder of the
notes for value. A certified copy of that judgment was also
produced by them and offered in evidence ; but on his objection
that it had not been shown that the court had obtained jurisdiction of the parties, it was excluded, and to the exclusion an
exception was taken. The jury found for him for the full
amount claimed; and judgment having been entered thereon,
the defendants brought the case here for review. The ruling
of the court below in excluding the record constitutes the only
erro'r assigned.
The judgment of the Circuit Court in Michigan was rendered in an action commenced by attachment. If the plaintiffs
in that action were, at its commencement, residents of fhe
State, of which some doubt is expressed by counsel, the jurisdiction of the court, under the writ, to dispose of the property
attached, cannot be doubted, so far as was necessary to satisfy
their demand. No question was raised as to the validity of
the judgment to that extent. The objection to it was as evi-

ST. CLAIR V. COX.

[Sup. Ct.

dence that the amount rendered was an existing obligation or
debt against the company. If the court had not acquired jurisdiction over the company, the judgment established nothing as
to its liability, beyond the amount which the proceeds of the
property discharged. There was no appearance of the company in the action, and judgment against it was rendered for
86,450 by default. The officer, to whom the writ of attachmient was issued, returned that, by virtue of it, he had seized
and attached certain specified personal property of the defendant, and had also served a copy of the writ, with a copy of
the inventory of the property attached, on the defendant, "by
delivering the same to Henry J. Colwell, Esq., agent of the
said Winthrop Mining Company, personally, in said county."
The laws of Michigan provide for attaching property of
absconding, fraudulent, and non-resident debtors and of foreign
corporations. They require that the writ issued to the sheriff,
or other officer by whom it is to be served, shall direct him to
attach the property of the defendant, and to summon him if he
be found within the county, and also to serve on him a copy of
the attachment and of the inventory of the property attached.
They also declare that where a copy of the writ of attachment
has been personally served on the defendant, the same proceedings may be had thereon in the suit in all respects as upon the
return of an original writ of summons personally served where
suit is commenced by such sumnons. 2 Comp. Laws, 1871,
sects. 6397 and 6413.
They also provide, in the chapter regulating proceedings by
and against corporations, that "suits against corporations may
be commenced by original writ of summons, or by declaration,
in the same manner that personal actions may be commenced
against individuals, and such writ, or a copy of such declaration,
in any suit against a corporation, may be served on the presiding officer, the cashier, the secretary, or the treasurer thereof;
or, if there be no such officer, or none can be found, such service may be made on such other officer or member of such corporation, or in such other manner as the court in which such
suit is brought may direct;" and that "in suits commenced by
attachment in favor of a resident of this State against any
corporation created by or under the laws of any other State,

Oct. 1882.]

ST. CLAIR v. Cox.

government, or country, if a copy of such attachment and of
the inventory of property attached shall have been personally
served on any officer, member, clerk, or agent of such corporation within this State, the same proceedings shall be thereupon
had, and with like effect, as in case of an attachment against a
natural person, which shall have been returned served in like
manner upon the defendant." 2 Comp. Laws, 1871, sects.
6544 and 6550.
The courts of the United States only regard judgments of
the State courts establishing personal demands as having validity or as importing verity where they have been rendered upon
personal citation of the party, or, what is the same thing, of
those empowered to receive process for him, or upon his voluntary appearance.
In Pennoyer v. Neff we bad occasion to consider at length
the manner in which State courts can acquire jurisdiction to
render a personal judgment against non-residents which would
be received as evidence in the Federal courts; and we held
that personal service of citation on the party or his voluntary
appearance was, with some exceptions, essential to the jurisdiction of the court. The exceptions related to those cases
where proceedings are taken in a State to determine the status
of one of its citizens towards a non-resident, or where a party
has agreed to accept a notification to others or service on them
as citation to himself. 95 U. S. 714.
The doctrine of that case applies, in all its force, to personal
judgments of State courts against foreign corporations. The
courts rendering them must have acquired jurisdiction over the
party by personal service or voluntary appearance, whether
the party be a corporation or a natural person. There is only
this difference: a corporation being an artificial being, can act
only through agents, and only through them can be reached,
and process must, therefore, be served upon them. In the
State where a corporation is formed it is not difficult to ascertain who are authorized to represent and act for it. Its
charter or the statutes of the State will indicate in whose
hands the control and management of its affairs are placed.
Directors are readily found, as also the officers appointed by
them to manage its business. But the moment the boundary
VoL. XV1.

23

ST. CLAIR V. COX.

(Sup. Ct.

of the State is passed difficulties arise; it is not so easy to
determine who represent the corporation there, and under what
circumstances service on them will bind it.
Formerly it was held that a foreign corporation could not be
sued in an action for the recovery of a personal demand outside
of the State by which it was chartered. The principle that a
corporation must dwell in the place of its creation, and cannot,
as said by Mr. Chief Justice Taney, migrate to another sovereignty, coupled with the doctrine that an officer of the corporation does not carry his functions with him when he leaves
his State, prevented the maintenance of personal actions against
it. There was no mode of compelling its appearance in the
foreign jurisdiction. Legal proceedings there against it were,
therefore, necessarily confined to the disposition of such property belonging to it as could be there found; and to authorize
them legislation was necessary.
'In MQueen v. Middleton MIanufacturing Co., decided in
1819, the Supreme Court of New York, in considering the
question whether the law of that State authorized an attachment against the property of a foreign corporation, expressed
the opinion that a foreign corporation could not be sued in the
State, and gave as a reason that the process must be served on
the head or principal officer within the jurisdiction of the sovereignty where the artificial body existed; observing that if
the president of a bank went to New York from another State
he would not represent the corporation there; and that "his
functions and his character would not accompany him when he
moved beyond the jurisdiction of the government under whose
laws he derived this character." 16 Johns. (N. Y.) 5. The
opinion thus expressed was not, perhaps, necessary to the
decision of the case, but nevertheless it has been accepted as
correctly stating the law. It was cited with approval by
the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, in 1834, in Peckham
v. North Parishin Haverhill, the court adding that all foreign
corporations were without the jurisdiction of the process
of the courts of the Commonwealth.
16 Pick. (Mass.)
274. Similar expressions of opinion are found in numerous
decisions, accompanied sometimes with suggestions that the
doctrine might be otherwise if the foreign corporation sent its

Oct. 1882.]

ST. CLAIR V. COX.

officer to reside in the State and transact business there on its
account. Libbey v. Hodgdon, 9 N. H. 394; Moulin v. Trenton
Insurance Co., 24 N. J. L. 222.
This doctrine of the exemption of a corporation from suit in
a State other than that of its creation was the cause of much
inconvenience, and often of manifest injustice. The great increase in the number of corporations of late years, and the
immense extent of their business, only made this inconvenience
and injustice more frequent and marked. Corporations now
enter into all the industries of the country. The business of
banking, mining, manufacturing, transportation, and insurance
is almost entirely carried on by them, and a large portion of the
wealth of the country is in their hands. Incorporated under the
laws of one State, they carry on the most extensive operations
in other States. To meet and obviate this inconvenience and
injustice, the legislatures of several States interposed, and provided for service of process on officers and agents of foreign
corporations doing business therein. Whilst the theoretical
and legal view, that the domicile of a corporation is only in the
State where it is created, was admitted, it was perceived that
when a foreign corporation sent its officers and agents into
other States and opened offices, and carried on its business
there, it was, in effect, as much represented by them there as
in the State of its creation. As it was protected by the laws
of those States, allowed to carry on its business within their
borders, and to sue in their courts, it seemed only right that it
should be held responsible in those courts to obligations and
liabilities there incurred.
All that there is in the legal residence of a corporation in
the State of its creation consists in the fact that by its laws
the corporators are associated together and allowed to exercise
as a body certain functions, with a right of succession in its
members. Its officers and agents constitute all that is visible
of its existence; and they may be authorized to act for it
without as well as within the State. There would seem,
therefore, to be no sound reason why, to the extent of their
agency, they should not be equally deemed to represent it in
the States for which they are respectively appointed when it is
called to legal responsibility for their transactions.

ST. CLAIR V. COX.

(Sup. Ot.

The case is unlike that of suits against individuals. They
can act by themselves, and upon them process can be directly
served, but a corporation can only act and be reached through
agents. Serving process on its agents in other States, for matters within the sphere of their agency, is, in effect, serving
process on it as much so as if such agents resided in the State
where it was created.
A corporation of one State cannot do business in another
State without the latter's consent, express or implied, and that
consent may be accompanied with such conditions as it may
think proper to impose. As said by this court in Lafayate
Insurance Co. v. French, "These conditions must be deemed
valid and effectual by other States and by this court, provided
they are not repugnant to the Constitution or laws of the
United States, or inconsistent with those rules of public law
which secure the jurisdiction and authority of each State from
encroachment by all others, or that principle of natural justice
which forbids condemnation without opportunity for defence."
18 How.404, 407; Paul v. Virgi'iia, 8 Wall. 168.
The State may, therefore, impose as a condition upon
which a foreign corporation shall be permitted to do business
within her limits, that it shall stipulate that in any litigation
arising out of its transactions in the State, it will accept as
sufficient the service of process on its agents or persons specially
designated; and the condition would be eminently fit and just.
And such condition and stipulation may be implied as well as
expressed. If a State permits a foreign corporation to do business within her limits, and at the same time provides that in
suits against it for business there done, process shall be served
upon its agents, the provision is to be deemed a condition of
the permission; and corporations that subsequently do business
in the State are to be deemed to assent to such condition as
fully as though they had specially authorized their agents to
receive service of the process. Such condition must not, however, encroach upon that principle of natural justice which
requires notice of a suit to a party before he can be bound by
it. It must be reasonable, and the service provided for should
be only upon such agents as may be properly deemed representatives of the foreign corporation. The decision of this

Ot. 1882.]

ST. CLAIR V. COX.

court in Lafayette Insurance Co. v. French, to which we have
already referred, sustains these views.
The State of Michigan permits foreign corporations to transact business within her limits. Either by express enactment,
as in the case of insurance companies, or by her acquiescence,
they are as free to engage in all legitimate business as corporations of her own creation. Her statutes expressly provide for
suits being brought by them in her courts; and for suits by attachment being brought against them in favor of residents of
the State. And in these attachment suits they authorize the
service of a copy of the writ of attachment, with a copy of the
inventory of the property attached, on "any officer, member,
clerk, or agent of such corporation" within the State, and give
to a personal service of a copy of the writ and of the inventory
on one of these persons the force and effect of personal service of
a summons on a defendant in suits commenced by summons.
It thus seems that a writ of foreign attachment in that State
is made to serve a double purpose, - as a command to the officer
to attach property of the corporation, and as a summons to the
latter to appear in the suit. We do not, however, understand
the laws as authorizing the service of a copy of the writ, as a
summons, upon an agent of a foreign corporation, unless the
corporation be engaged in business in the State, and the agent
be appointed to act there. We so construe the words "agent
of such corporation within this State." They do not sanction
service upon an officer or agent of the corporation who resides
in another State, and is only casually in the State, and not
charged with any business of the corporation there. The decision in Newell v. Great Western Railway Co., reported in the
19th of Michigan Reports, supports this view, although that
was the case of an attempted service of a declaration as the
commencement of the suit. The defendant was a Canadian
corporation owning and operating a railroad from Suspension
Bridge in Canada to the Detroit line at Windsor opposite Detroit, and carrying passengers in connection with the Michigan
Central Railroad Company, upon tickets sold by such companies respectively. The suit was commenced in Michigan,
the declaration alleging a contract by the defendant to carry
the plaintiff over its road, and its violation of the contract by

ST. CLAIR v. Cox.

[Sup. Ct.

removing him from its cars at an intermediate station. The
declaration was served upon Joseph Price, the treasurer of the
corporation, who was only casually in the State. The corporation appeared specially to object to the jurisdiction of the court,
and pleaded that it was a foreign corporation, and had no place
of business or agent or officer in the State, or attorney to receive
service of legal process, or to appear for it; and that Joseph
Price was not in the State at the time of service on him on any
official business of the corporation. The plaintiff having demurred to this plea, the court held the service insufficient.
"The corporate entity," said the court, "could by no possibility enter the State, and it could do nothing more in that direction than to cause itself to be represented here by its officers
or agents. Such representation would, however, necessarily
imply something more than the mere presence here of a person
possessing, when in Canada, the relation to the company of an
officer or agent. To involve the representation of the company
here, the supposed representative would have to hold or enjoy
in this State an actual present official or representative status.
He would be required to be here as an agent or officer of the
corporation, and not as an isolated individual. If he should
drop the official or representative character, at the frontier, if
he should bring that character no further than the territorial
boundary of the government to whose laws the corporate body
itself, and consequently the official positions of its officers also,
would be constantly indebted for existence, it could not, with
propriety, be maintained that he continued to possess such
character by force of our statute. Admitting, therefore, for
the purpose of this suit, that in given cases the foreign corporation would be bound by service on its treasurer in Michigan,
this could only be so when the treasurer, the then official, the
officer then in a manner impersonating the company, should be
served. Joseph Price was not here as the treasurer of the defendants. He did not then represent them. His act in coming
was not the act of the company, nor was his remaining the
business or act of any besides himself. He had no principal,
and he was not an agent. He had no official status or representative character in this State." p. 344.
According to the view thus expressed by the Supreme Court

Oct. 1882.]

ST. CLAIR v. Cox.

of Michigan, service upon an agent of a foreign corporation will
not be deemed sufficient, unless he represents the corporation
in the State. This representation implies that the corporation
does business, or has business, in the State for the transaction
of which it sends or appoints an agent there. If the agent occupies no representative character with respect to the business
of the corporation in the State, a judgment rendered upon service on him would hardly be considered in other tribunals as
possessing any probative force. In a case where similar service
was made in New York upon an officer of a corporation of New
Jersey accidentally in the former State, the Supreme Court of
New Jersey said, that a law of another State which sanctioned
such service upon an officer accidentally within its jurisdiction
was "so contrary to natural justice and to the principles of
international law, that the courts of other States ought not to
sanction it." Mfoulin v. Trenton Insurance Co., 24 N. J. L.
222, 234.
Without considering whether authorizing service of a copy
of a writ of attachment as a summons on some of the persons
named in the statute -a member, for instance, of the foreign
corporation, that is, a mere stockholder - is not a departure
from the principle of natural justice mentioned in Lafayette
.IZ8urance Co. v. French, which forbids condemnation without citation, it is sufficient to observe that we are of opinion
that when service is made within the State upon an agent
of a foreign corporation, it is essential, in order to support the
jurisdiction of the court to render a personal judgment, that it
in the applishould appear somewhere in the record -either
cation for the writ, or accompanying its service, or in the pleadings or the finding of the court -that the corporation was
engaged in business in the State. The transaction of business
by the corporation in the State, general or special, appearing,
a certificate of service by the proper officer on a person who is
its agent there would, in our opinion, be sufficient primafacie
evidence that the agent represented the company in the business. It would then be open, when the record is offered as
evidence in another State, to show that the agent stood in no
representative character to the company, that his duties were
limited to, those of a subordinate employ6, or to a particular

VAN WYCK V. KNEVALS.

[Sup. Ct.

transaction, or that his agency had ceased when the matter in
suit arose.
In the record, a copy of which was offered -in evidence in this
case, there was nothing to show, so far as we can see, that
the Winthrop Mining Company was engaged in business in the
State when service was made on Colwell. The return of the
officer, on which alone reliance was placed to sustain the jurisdiction of the State court, gave no information on the subject.
It did not, therefore, appear even prima facie that Colwell
stood in any such representative character to the company as
would justify the service of a copy of the writ on him. The
certificate of the sheriff, in the absence of this fact in the
record, was insufficient to give the court jurisdiction to render
The
a personal judgment against the foreign corporation.
record was, therefore, properly excluded.
J"udgment affirmed.

VAN WYcK

V. KNEvALS.

1. Subject to the exceptions therein mentioned, the act of July 23, 1866, c. 212,
granted, for the use and benefit of the St. Joseph and Denver City Railroad
Company, the odd-numbered sections of public land within a prescribed distance on each side of the proposed road. The company duly filed in the
office of the Secretary of the Interior a map showing the definite location of
the line of the road. Held, that the grant was in prcsenti, and attached to
those sections as soon as the map was so filed. No valid adverse right or title
to any part of them could be acquired by a subsequent settlement or entry.
2. On the failure of the company to complete the work, a forfeiture of the grant,
if it resulted therefrom, can be enforced only by the United States through
judicial proceedings, or the action of Congress. A third party cannot set
it up to validate his title, nor avail himself of the fact that the company,
in constructing, deviated from the original line, if the lands which he claims
are within the prescribed distance from it and the road as built.
3. After the company had filed with the Secretary of the Interior its map of
definite location, a party entered a portion of the sections covered by the
grant, and a patent therefor was issued to him by the United States. Held,
that the patent created a cloud upon the company's right and title, and
furnishes ground for equitable relief.
4. Qucre, Where Congress conferred upon a railway company created by a State
authority to construct its road within an organized Territory, can the latter, when admitted into the Union as a State, impose any impediment to
the full enjoyment by the company of all the rights resulting from tho
exercise of that authority.

