MORRILL V. JONES.

[Sup. Ct.

MORIILL V. JONES.
1. Animals, specially imported from beyond the seas for breeding purposes, are
not subject to duty.
2. The Secretary of the Treasury has no authority to prescribe a regulation
requiring that, before admitting them free, the collector shall "be satisfied
that they are of superior stock, adapted to improving the breed in the
United States."

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maine.
Section 2505 of the Revised Statutes provides, among other
things, that "Animals, alive, specially imported for breeding
purposes from beyond the seas, shall be admitted free [of duty],
upon proof thereof satisfactory to the Secretary of the Treasury,
and under such regulations as he may prescribe." Article 383
of the Treasury Customs Regulations provides that before a
collector admits such animals free he must, among other things,
"be satisfied that the animals are of superior stock, adapted to
improving the breed in the United States."
Jones imported certain animals, which were entered at the
port of Portland, Maine, and he claimed that they should be
admitted free, as they were "specially imported for breeding
purposes." Morrill, the collector, though the importation was
for breeding purposes, demanded the duties because he was
not satisfied that the animals were of " superior stock." The
duties were accordingly paid under protest, and this suit was
brought to recover the amount so paid."
On the trial the court instructed the jury "that, under the
statute, animals, whether of superior or inferior stock, if, in
fact, imported specially for breeding purposes, are entitled to
be admitted free of duty," and "that the law does not give to
the Secretary of the Treasury power to prescribe in the regulations what classes of animals imported for breeding purposes
shall be admitted free of duty." To this instruction an exception was taken. The jury returned a verdict against the collector, upon which judgment was rendered. To reverse that
judgment this writ of error was brought.
The error assigned relates to the instruction as to the effect
of the treasury regulation.

Oct. 1882.]

MORRILL V. JONES.

Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Maury for the plaintiff in
error.
Ir. Charles P. Alattocs for the defendant in error.
MR. CHm F JusTIcE WAiTE, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The Secretary of the Treasury cannot by his regulations
alter or amend a revenue law. All he can do is to regulate
the mode of proceeding to carry into effect what Congress has
enacted. In the present case we are entirely satisfied the
regulation acted upon by the collector was in excess of the
power of the Secretary. The statute clearly includes animals
of all classes. The regulation seeks to confine its operation to
animals of "superior stock." This is manifestly an attempt
to put into the body of the statute a limitation which Congress
did not think it necessary to prescribe. Congress was willing
to admit duty free all animals specially imported for breeding
purposes; the Secretary thought this privilege should be confined to such animals as were adapted to the improvement
of breeds already in the United States. In our opinion, the
object of the Secretary could only be accomplished by an
amendment of the law. That is not the office of a treasury
regulation. It has been argued here, that as it appears from the testimony, which has been incorporated into the bill of exceptions,
that the importation in this case was from Prince Edward
Island, it was not from "beyond the seas," and therefore that
the judgment below was right. It is a sufficient answer to
this objection that no such point was made below. The court
was not asked to rule on any such question. Our examination
is confined to such exceptions as were taken to the rulings actually made on the trial and incorporated in some form into the
record, " an authenticated transcript" of which is returned
with our writ of error.
Judgment affirmed.

