552

TURNER v. FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST CO.

[Sup. Ct.

TURNER V. FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY.
A suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage commenced in a State court was removed to the Circuit Court, where a motion to remand it was made and overruled. A final decree in favor of the complainant was passed, whereunder
the mortgaged property was sold. From the order confirming the sale all
appeal was taken. Held, that the final decree, not disclosing a want of jurisdiction of the court below, as to subject-matter or parties, will be examined
here only to ascertain whether the sale conformed to its provisions.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

l1fr. George W. Kretzinger and Mr. Nathaniel A. Cowdrey for
the appellants.
Mr. James D. Campbell for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was commenced on the 21st of November, 1874, in
the Circuit Court for De Witt County, Illinois, by Malcolm
C. Turner, James Turner, and others, constituting the firm of
Turner Brothers, against the Indianapolis, Bloomington, and
Western Railway Company, the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company, and others. The complainants, suing in behalf of
themselves and all other bondholders and creditors of the
railway company, asked a decree for the foreclosure of several
mortgages, covering as well its property and franchises as the
road and franchises of the constituent companies, by whose
consolidation it was created.
The Farmers' Loan and Trust Company appeared and answered. It also filed a cross-bill, making all necessary parties
defendant thereto; and, as trustee in some of the mortgages
creating prior liens upon the main line of the consolidated road,
it prayed for a decree of foreclosure, a sale of the mortgaged
property, and a proper distribution of the proceeds arising
therefrom among the several classes of creditors of the railway
company. Subsequently, on the 26th of April, 1876, it filed
a petition, accompanied by a sufficient bond, for the removal of
the suit into the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Oct. 1882.]

TURNER V. FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST

Co.

558

Southern District of Illinois; and thereafter, it is asserted, the
State court proceeded no further. A transcript of the proceedings having been filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States, a motion was there made to remand the cause, while
the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company moved that the court
take jurisdiction. By an order entered on the 19th of July,
1876, the former motion was denied and the latter sustained.
On the 18th of July, 1877, a final decree was passed, ascertaining the amounts due and unpaid on the mortgages to the
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company. By that decree it was
ordered and adjudged that the railway company, within twenty
days thereafter, pay to the trustee $6,234,625, the amount so
ascertained, with interest from the date of the decree; that in
default of such payment the equity of all the defendants to the
cross-bill, in the mortgaged property, be forever barred and
foreclosed, and the property -which
included all the rights,
effects, and franchises of the consolidated company, and of its
constituent companies, as to the main line of road -be sold as
an entirety, the same being, in the opinion and judgment of the
court, incapable of sale separately, or in division, without material injury to its value.
It was further decreed that the mortgaged property be sold
without appraisement, and without reference, and not subject,
to any law of Illinois or Indiana conferring the right of redemption from mortgage sales.
On the 8th of May, 1878, the original decree was amended
by way of further direction for its execution.
The sale occurred on the 30th of October, 1878, was reported
to court on the succeeding day, and on the 1st of November,
1878, exceptions thereto were filed by James Turner and the
railway company. On the 23d of December, 1878, the exceptions were overruled, and an order entered confirming and approving the sale in all respects.
On the 3d of February, 1879, Turner and the railway company filed their joint petition, praying an appeal from the final
order confirming the sale. The appeal was allowed, and the bond
tendered was approved, not to operate as a supersedeas. Subsequently, the purchaser received a deed and took possession
of the property under the direction of the court.

554

TURNER

v. FARMERS' LOAN AND TaUST Co.

[Sup. Ct.

It may be stated that a similar decree was entered in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the -District of Indiana,
in a suit pending therein between, substantially, the same parties and relating to the same property. That suit was commenced on the 18th of November, 1874, in the Circuit Court
for Montgomery County, Indiana, and thence, upon the petition
of the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, removed into the
Federal court.
Notwithstanding the record is very voluminous, it is believed
that this statement is sufficient to indicate the grounds upon
which this court rests its determination of the case.
The appellants have assigned numerous errors, the first and
most important of which relates to the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court of the United States. Their contention is, that
under the act of March 8, 1875, c. 187, the State court could
not have been deprived of jurisdiction to proceed, unless the
petition for removal was filed "before or at the term at which
such cause could be first tried and before the trial thereof;"
that the petition of the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company
was not so filed; consequently, it is insisted that the jurisdiction of the Federal court could not have attached. It is further argued that the pleadings disclose the fact that there was
no such controversy in this suit, between citizens of different
States, as would authorize its removal from the State court
under the act just cited or that of March 2, 1867, c. 196, even
if the latter is in force for any purpose.
Without admitting the soundness of these propositions, we
are of opinion that the questions of jurisdiction now raised
cannot be determined upon an appeal merely from the order
confirming the report of sale. Whether the suit was one
which the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company was entitled to
have removed, that is, whether the Circuit Court of the United
States could rightfully proceed after the petition for removal,
accompanied by a sufficient bond, had been filed in the State
court, was a question directly presented to that court -for judicial determination upon the motion that the cause be remanded.
The denial of that motion constituted an adjudication by the
Federal court that the facts existed which were necessary to
give jurisdiction. And had the question not been thus for-

Oct. 1882.]

TURNER v. FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST CO.

555

mally presented, it was the duty of the Circuit Court to dismiss
or remand the cause, as justice might have required, at any
time during its progress, when it appeared that the suit did not
really or substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within its jurisdiction. Williams v. INottawa, 104 U. S.
209. Further, the final decree necessarily involved, and was
itself, a judicial determination, as between the parties, that the
suit was one of which that court might take cognizance.
That decree, unmodified and unchallenged by any direct appeal therefrom, should, upon this appeal only from the order
confirming the sale, be deemed conclusive, between the parties
and their privies, as to all matters in issue and by it adjudicated,
including the questions of jurisdiction now pressed upon our
attention. Such, we think, must be the rule, especially under
existing statutes regulating the jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States. Whether or not a cause, commenced in a State
court, could have been tried at some term thereof prior to
the filing of a petition for removal; whether the parties to a
particular suit, without regard to their position as plaintiffs or
defendants, can be so arranged on different sides of the controversy as to make a proper case for removal upon the ground of
citizenship; whether there is in the suit a separable controversy between citizens of different States to which the judicial
power of the United States extends, -are often questions difficult of solution. Removal Cases, 100 id. 457. We have held
in numerous cases that upon the filing in the State court of
a petition and bond for removal, the suit being removable
under the statute, its jurisdiction ceases. And to the end that
litigants may not, in such cases, be harassed by doubt as to
which court has authority to proceed, the party against whom
the removal is had is at liberty to move that the suit be remanded; and the act of 1875, for the first time in the legislation of Congress, declares that an order of the Circuit Court
remanding a cause may, in advance of the final judgment or
decree therein, be reviewed by this court on writ of error or
appeal, as the case may require the one or the other mode to
be pursued. Prior to that act the remedy, in that class of
cases, was by mandamus to compel the Circuit Court to hear
and determine the cause. Babbitt v. Clark, 103 id. 600;

556

TURNER V. FARmERS' LOAN AND TRUST

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Insurance Company v. Comstock, 16 Wall. 258; Railroad Company v. Wiswall, 23 id. 507. When the Circuit Court assumes
jurisdiction of the cause, the party denying its authority to do
so, may, after final decree and by a direct appeal therefrom,
bring the case here for review upon the question of jurisdiction,
the amount in dispute being sufficient for that purpose. Railroad ComTpany v. KYoontz, 104 U. S. 5. In the present case we
have seen that the appeal is only from the order confirming
the sale. Appellants elected not to appeal from the final decree, although it necessarily involved every question affecting
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. That decree is, consequently, not before us for any purpose, except to ascertain,
from an inspection thereof, whether the sale was conducted in
conformity with its provisions. In such cases, upon an appeal,
not from the final decree, but only from an order in execution
thereof, the court will not examine the record, prior to such
decree, to see whether the petition for removal was filed in due
time, or whether it makes a case of Federal jurisdiction, by
reason of the presence in the suit of a controversy between
citizens of different States, but will assume that the final
decree, being passed by a court of general jurisdiction, and not
showing upon its face a want of jurisdiction as to subjectmatter or parties, was within the power of the court to render.
Whether the order confirming the sale would have been erroneous, had the decree itself disclosed, affirmatively, a want of
jurisdiction, is a question which need not be decided.
What we have said disposes of numerous other assignments
of error, such as that the court erred in decreeing that the property of the railroad company be sold without appraisement and
without reference, and not subject to the laws of Illinois and
Indiana conferring the right of redemption from sales of mortgaged real estate; in ordering the railroad and other property
to be sold without first ascertaining what claims existed which
were plior in lien to the mortgages foreclosed; in amending
the decree of September, 1877, after the expiration of the term
at which it was entered; in ordering the cross-bill ,of the
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company to be taken by default as
against the complainants in the original bill, after it appeared
that they had become bankrupts, and their property and rights

Oct. 1882.]

TURNER

v.

FARBIERS' LOAN AND TRUST

Co.

557

had passed to an assignee in bankruptcy, who was not made
a party to the cause; in decreeing the personal property of the
railroad company to be sold, and in subsequently delivering it
to the purchasers- in disregard of the alleged rights of appellants under the chattel mortgage executed to Thomas on the
sixteenth day of November, 1874; in refusing to entertain
appellant Turner's petition to intervene, filed on the day of
sale; and in directing a foreclosure and sale of the property
for the principal and interest of the debt secured by the mortgage, when, as is claimed, it did not appear that the principal
had become due.
We do not stop to consider whether these objections find
any support in the record, since it is sufficient to say that, if
any such errors exist, they necessarily inhere, some in the final
decree of foreclosure and sale, and others in the orders which
preceded it. They cannot be examined upon an appeal merely
from the order confirming the report of sale. Our authority
extends, as we have shown, no farther than to an examination
of the exceptions filed by appellants to the report of sale, from
the order confirming which this appeal is taken. And some of
these exceptions plainly have reference, not to the sale itself,
but to the final decree of foreclosure; such, for instance, as
that the terms of sale were too onerous; that the property was
sold subject to various claims, the amount of which was wholly
uncertain; and that the court bad no jurisdiction in the case.
The only exceptions which properly relate to the sale are that
the price at which the property was struck off and sold $1,000,000 -was
inadequate and insufficient; and that the
property was not advertised for a sufficient length of time. It
is enough to say that the record discloses no ground upon
which these exceptions could have been sustained. One exception was to the effect that the purchasers at the sale constituted a committee, acting as agents of bondholders of the
railway company, and that the report of sale did not disclose
the names of the principals for whose use the property was
purchased, or the amount to which each of said parties was
beneficially interested. We are unable to perceive anything of
substance in this exception. Since the sale was, in all material
respects, in conformity with the final decree, from which no

558

MEROHANTS' BANK OF PITTSBURGH V. SLAGLE.

[Sup. Ot.

appeal was prayed, and since the record discloses no ground
upon which its fairness can be impeached, the court below
properly overruled the exceptions and confirmed the sale. The
order appealed from must, consequently, be

Affirmed.

MERCHANTs'

BANK O1 PITTSBURGH v. SLAGI.

Where the trustees of a bankrupt who were appointed under sect. 5103 of the
Revised Statutes distributed the proceeds of the sale of his property pursuant
to an order entered by the proper District Court sitting in bankruptcy, and

affirmed by the Circuit Court in the exercise of its supervisory jurisdiction,Held, that the order is binding, and that the creditors are thereby concluded.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. John Dalzell and Mr. J. P. Slagle for the appellant.

MU.r. George ,Sliras,Jr., for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Christopher Zug and Charles H.. Zug, composing the partnership of Zug & Co., were, on their own petition of May 11, 1876,
declared bankrupts by the District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
At the first meeting of the creditors, Slagle and Miller were
appointed trustees, and Smith, Dunlap, and Clarke a committee of creditors, under sect. 5103 of the Revised Statutes. This
action of the creditors was duly approved by an order of the
District Court.
The trustees disposed of the property of the bankrupts, of
which the Sable Iron Works, sold for $130,000, constituted
the principal item. They then submitted their final accounts
of the copartnership assets and the individual assets, and, on
the committee approving them, made an order of distribution
among the creditors.
Thereupon Coleman and others, creditors of Christopher Zug

