UNITED STATES V. WILSON.

[Sup. Ct.

the bill was to go behind the agreement under which the defendant had contracted for the right to use the complainant's
invention, and to obtain an injunction against the defendant as
an infringer. In this case, the appellee admits the contract to
be in force, and simply seeks to compel its performance.
The following cases, cited by this court in Hartell v. Tilghman, are in accord with the views we have expressed: Goodyear
v. India-Rubber Company, 4 Blatchf. 63 ; Merserole v. Union
Paper Collar Co., 6 id. '356; Blanchard v. Sprague, 1 Cliff.
288; Hill v. Whitcomb, 1 Holmes, 317.
From the conclusions reached by us, it follows that the decree of the Circuit Court remanding the cause to the State
court must be

Affirmed.

UNITED STATES V. WILSON.
Certificates of indebtedness issued by a person or a corporation are not taxable
as "circulation," under sect. 8408, IRev. Stat., unless they were calculated or
intended to circulate or to be used as money.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Middle.District of Tennessee.
In a foreclosure suit, commenced Oct. 24, 1874, against the
Saint Louis and Southeastern Railway Company, the court
appointed a receiver to manage the affairs of the company and
issue certificates of indebtedness. The order appointing him
was modified, Dec. 7, 1874, so as to authorize and allow him
"for the purpose of providing money to make payments on
account of the balance of purchase-money due the State of
Tennessee for the road sold as the Edgefield & Kentucky Railroad, from time to time to issue his certificates, which, altogether, shall not exceed two hundred and fifty thousand dollars
on so much of the road mentioned in the pleadings as lies and
is situated in the State of Tennessee, in such general form as
may be approved of by complainants, providing for the payment
thereof out of any of the moneys as are applicable for that
purpose, which certificates shall bear interest at a rate not ex-

Ot. 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. WILSON.

ceeding ten per cent. per annum, and the sums represented by
such certificates shall, unless previously discharged, be paid out
of any moneys realized upon a foreclosure and sale of the
mortgaged property within the jurisdiction of this court
equally with any other liability incurred by the receiver in
the management of said railroad and the protection of the said
property coming into his hands as receiver aforesaid. 'And it
is further ordered that said certificates may be sold below par if
necessary so to do."
Certificates in the following form"No. 3491.]

[1874.

"SSAINT Louis AND SOUTHEASTERN RAILWAY COMPiANY.
"Certificate of indebtedness, good for twenty dollars, to H. W.
Gardiner, paymaster, or bearer, payable at the office of the treasurer,
Saint Louis, Mo., four months after date, with interest at the rate of
ten per cent. per annum. Good only when countersigned by the
paymaster of the company.
"J. F. ALEXANDER, Treasurer.
"I. P. HxNms, Auditor.

(On margin:) "Countersigned:
"H. W. GAlRDInEB, Paymaster.
"148.

$20.00.]

[Due Dec. 6, 1874.

"Twenty-five per cent. of freight bills due the company may
be paid in these certificates at their face value before maturity
thereof."
- were, from October, 1873, to November, 1874, issued for labor
done and supplies and machinery furnished the company.
The receiver accepted them when overdue for freights and
debts accruing to the company, or paid them out at their face
value with interest.
The United States filed a petition against Wilson, the receiver, praying for leave to intervene, and alleging that the
company was indebted to it in an amount assessed by the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue on account of circulating
certificates of indebtedness, from October, 1873, to May, 1875,
and also for the month of May, 1875, and for interest and
penalties by reason of Wilson's failure to pay the same on notice
and demand. The United States insisted that the amount due

COUNTY OF MADISON

V. WARREN.

[Sup. Ct.

was a prior claim upon the fund in his hands, and that he be
directed to pay the same.
The court dismissed the petition, and the United States
appealed.
The Solicitor-General for the United States.
There was no opposing counsel.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE, WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We are not satisfied that the certificates of indebtedness, on
account of which the United States have assessed the taxes petitioned for, were calculated or intended to circulate or to be
used as money. They were not, therefore, taxable as "circulation" under the third clause of sect. 3408 of the Revised
Statutes.
-Decree affirmed.

COUNTY OF MADISON V. WARREN.
Where, in a case tried by the court below, the record does not affirmatively show
a written stipulation waiving a jury, the questions decided at the trial cannot
be re-examined here on a writ of error.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Charles P. Wise for the plaintiff in error.
fr. T. C. Mather for the defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a case tried and determined by the court without the
intervention of a jury. The record does not show any stipulation in writing waiving a jury. The errors assigned all relate
to rulings of the court on the trial, excepted to at the time,
and presented by a bill of exceptions. The rule is well settled,
that if a written stipulation waiving a jury is not in some way

