Oct. 1882.]

Ex PARTE BALTIBIORE AND OHIO R.R. Co.

5

Ex PARTE BALTIMORE AND OHIO RA.LROAD CoMPANY.
An appeal will not lie from a decree of the Circuit Court, which adjudged to
none of the libellants in a collision suit, who had distinct causes of action
against the vessel at fault, a sum exceeding $5,000.
PETITION for

mandamus.

A collision occurred in the harbor of Baltimore, Maryland,
between the steamer "Knickerbocker," owned by the Baltimore
and Ohio Railroad Company, and the barge "J. J. Munger,"
owned by Jeannette Maxon. The barge was loaded with grain
belonging to the partnership firm of J. & C. Moore & Co.
Both the barge and her cargo were injured in the collision,
and the owner of the barge united with the owners of the
cargo in a libel against the steamer to recover the damages
they had respectively sustained. The suit thus begun terminated in a decree in the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland in favor of the owner of the barge for $1,471.20, and
in favor of the owners of the cargo for $3,709.13. The railroad company, as the claimant of the steamer, prayed an appeal
to this court, which was refused by the Circuit Court on the
ground that the value of the matter in dispute between the
steamer and the respective libellants was less than $5,000.
The company now asks a mandamus from this court requiring
the Circuit Court to allow an appeal.

MfIr. .Eben, J. D. Cross for the petitioner.
Mr. John i. Thomas, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE,

after stating the*case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
It is impossible to distinguish this case in principle from
Oliver v. Alexander, 6 Pet. 143; Stratton v. Jarvis, 8 id. 4;
Spear v. Place, 11 How. 522; and Bich v. Lambert,12 id. 347,
under which, for half a century, it has been held that when in
admiralty distinct causes of action in favor of distinct parties,
growing out of the same transaction, are united in one suit,
according to the practice of the courts of that jurisdiction, distinct decrees in favor of or against distinct parties cannot be

6

Ex

PARTE BALTIMORE AND OHIo

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

joined to give this court jurisdiction on appeal. In Seaver v.
Bigelows, 5 Wall. 208; Paving Company v. Iuord,
100 U. S.
147; and _ussell v. Stansell, 105 id. 303, this rule was applied
to analogous cases in equity.
The cases of Shields v. Thomas, 17 How. 3; 1Market Company
v. Hoffman, 101 U. S. 112; and The Connemara, 103 id.
t54, relied on in support of the present application, stand on
an entirely different principle. There the controversies were
about matters in which the several claimants were interested
collectively under a common title. They each had an undivided interest in the claim, and it was perfectly immaterial to
their adversaries how the recovery was shared among them.
If a dispute arose about the division, it would be between the
claimants themselves, and not with those against whom the
claim was made. The distinction between the two classes of
cases was clearly stated by Chief Justice Taney in Shields v.
Thomas, and that case was held to be within the latter class.
It may not always be easy to determine the class to which a
particular case belongs, but the rule recognizing the existence
of the two classes has long been established.
Neither is the case of The Mamie, 105 U. S. 773, an authority in support of this application. That was a suit by the
owners of the pleasure-yacht "Mamie" to obtain the benefit
of the act of Congress limiting the liability of vessel owners.
Rev. Stat., sects. 4283 to 4289. The aggregate of the claims
against the yacht was $65,000, but no single claim exceeded
$5,000. The theory of the proceeding authorized by this act
of Congress is, that the owner brings into court the fund which
he says belongs to all who have claims against him or his vessel
growing out if the loss, and surrenders it to them collectively
in satisfaction of their demands. If he succeeds, all the claimants have a common interest in the fund thus created, and are
entitled to have it divided between them in proportion to the
amount of their respective claims. With this division the
owner of the vessel has nothing to do. He surrenders the fund,
and calls on all who have claims against him growing out of
the loss to come in and divide it among themselves. The con-troversy in the suit is not in respect to his liability to the different parties in interest, but as to his right to surrender the

Oct. 1882.]

COUGHLIN V. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

fund and be discharged of all further liability. His dispute is
not with any one claimant separately, but with all collectively.
He insists that his liability in the aggregate does not exceed
the value of his interest in the vessel; they, that he must pay
all their several demands amount to. He does not seek to have
it determined how much he owes each one of them, but to
what extent he is liable to them collectively. The difference
between what he admits his liability to be, and the aggregate
amount of the demands against him, is the amount in dispute.
In the case of 1Te ZfIamie this difference was more than $5,000,
and we consequently took jurisdiction.
It follows that the Circuit Court properly refused to allow
the appeal, and the petition for a mandamus is therefore
-Denied.

COUGHLIN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
1. After the adjournment without day of a term, whereat a final judgment on a
verdict was rendered by one justice of the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia, and an appeal taken therefrom to the general term, but no
bill of exceptions or case stated filed, a new trial cannot be granted upon
a case stated filed by him at a subsequent term.
2. When a verdict and a judgment for the plaintiff were wrongly set aside, and
the error appears of record, lie may, without a bill of exceptions, avail
himself of it upon a writ of error to reverse a final judgment afterwards
rendered against him.
3. When a judgment for the plaintiff in a personal action was erroneously set
aside, and a subsequent final judgment against him is brought up by writ
of error, pending which he dies, this court will affirm the first judgment
nunc pro hinc.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-ir. Walter D..Davidge and Hr. Reginald _endall for the
plaintiff in error.
.1r. Albert
Riddle for the defendant in error.

a.

MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action to recover damages for a personal injury
sustained by reason of a defect in a highway. The Supreme

