SCHWED V. SMITH.

[Sup Ct

SCEWED V. SMITH.
Certain creditors, who severally recovered judgments against A. amounting in
the aggregate to more than $5,000, but none of which exceed that sum, filed
their bill against him and B. in the Circuit Court. A decree was passed,
subjecting to the payment of the complainants goods seized by virtue of an
execution sued out upon an older judgment confessed by A. in favor of B.
The amount of that judgment and the value of the goods are each more
than $5,000. A. and B. appealed. Held, that the value of the matter in dispute between them and the respective appellees is not sufficient to give this
court jurisdiction.

MonIoN to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Missouri.
On the 26th of January, 1880, Schwed & Newhouse confessed, a judgment in the Circuit Court of Jackson County,
Missouri, against themselves, and in fav6r of Henry Heller, for
$9,512.50. Execution was at once issued on this judgment,
and levied by Bailey, sheriff of the county, on a stock of
goods.
On the 12th of February 1880, William Smith & Co. had a
suit pending in the same court, in their favor, against Schwed
& Newhouse for the recovery of $3,829.71, and William C.
Greene & Co. another suit for the recovery of $1,012.93. In
both the suits attachments were issued and levied on the same
goods taken under the execution in favor of Heller, and then
in the hands of the sheriff. Smith & Co. and Greene & Co.
thereupon brought suit in the same court against Schwed,
Newhouse, Heller, and the sheriff, to set aside the judgment in
favor of Heller on the ground that it was confessed without
any consideration, and for the purpose of covering up the
property of Schwed & Newhouse, and hindering and delaying
creditors in the collection of their debts. This suit was afterwards removed to the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Western Division of the Western District of Missouri.
Afterwards judgments were rendered in the attachment suits;
that in favor of Smith & Co. being for $4,174.38, and that in
favor of Greene & Co. for $1,104.09. In the mean time other
creditors of Schwed & Newhouse sued out attachments against

Oct. 1882.]

SCHWED V. SMITH.

them and recovered judgments; to wit, The Seth Thomas Clock
Company for 81,518.49, The E. N. Welch Manufacturing
Company for $455.58, and F. Quayle for 5356. The attachments in these cases were also levied on the goods in the hands
of the sheriff. All the later attaching creditors were admitted
as parties to the original suit begun by Smith & Co. and
Greene & Co. to set aside the judgment in favor of Heller, and
in proper time a supplemental bill was filed in which all the
attaching creditors appeared as complainants, setting up the
recovery of their' respective judgments. Pending the suit
the property levied upon was sold, and the proceeds, being
$7,405.55, paid into the registry of the court. At the final
hearing a decree was rendered declaring the judgment confessed
in favor of Heller void as against the attaching creditors.
From this decree Schwed, Newhouse, Heller, and Bailey, the
sheriff, took an appeal, which the appellees now move to dismiss on the ground that the value of the matter in dispute
between the appellants and the several appellees is not greater
than $5,000.
Mr. .Enoch Totten and lfr. James Botsford in support of the
motion.
Mr. 3layer Sulzberger and fIr. James K. Waddill, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTioE WAITE, after stating the case, deliv-

ered the opinion of the court.
It is impossible to distinguish this case in principle from
Seaver v. Bigelows, 5 Wall. 208, where an appeal by creditors
who had joined in a suit to set aside a fraudulent conveyance by
their debtor was dismissed because the amounts found due the
appellants, respectively, were less than our jurisdIctional limit.
In delivering the opinion of the court, Mr. Justice Nelson said:
"The judgment creditors who have joined in this bill have
separate and distinct interests, depending upon separate and
distinct judgments. In no event could the sum in dispute of
either party exceed the amount of their judgment. . . .The
bill being dismissed, each fails in obtaining payment of his
demands. If it had been sustained, and a decree rendered in
their favor, it would only have been for the amount of the judgment of each." In the present case, the judgment creditors

SCHWED V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

did succeed, and, in effect, each recovered a decree against
Heller, setting aside his judgment so far as it affected them
individually. Had they been defeated they could not have
appealed, because, although allowed in equity to join in their
suit, they had "separate and distinct interests depending on
separate and distinct judgments," as well as separate and distinct attachments. But if the decree is several as to the
creditors, it is difficult to see why it is not as to their adversaries. The theory is, that, although the proceeding is in
form but one suit, its legal effect is the same as though separate suits had been begun on each of the separate causes of
action.
The appeal in Seaver v. Bigelows was from a decree against
the creditors, but, in deciding the case, the court, in express
terms, adopted the analogous practice in admiralty, where,
under certain circumstances, separate and distinct causes of
action may be united in one suit, and in that practice it has
always been held that the ship-owner cannot unite the separate
decrees against him in a suit to make up the amount necessary for our jurisdiction on appeal. That question was fully
considered in Ex parte Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company,
ante, p. 5. Although the effect of the decree is to deprive
Heller in the aggregate of more than $5,000, it has been done
at the suit of several parties on several claims, who might have
sued separately, but whose suits have been joined in one for
convenience and to save expense.
Motion granted.

