Oct. 1882.]

EX PARTE CURTIS.

EX PARTE CURTIS.
The sixth section of the act of Aug. 15, 1876, c. 287, prohibiting, under penalties
therein mentioned, certain officers of the United States from requesting, giving
to, or receiving from, any other officer money or property or other thing of
value for political purposes, is not unconstitutional.

PE.TITION for a writ of habeas corpus.
The sixth section of the act of Aug. 15, 1876, c. 287, entitled
"An Act making appropriations for the legislative, executive,
and judicial expenses of the government," provides "that all
executive officers or employ6s of the United States not appointed by the President, with the advice and consent of the
Senate, a:e prohibited from requesting, giving to, or receiving
from, any other officer or employ6 of the government, any
money or property or other thing of value for political purposes; and any such officer or employ4 who shall offend
against the provisions of this section, shall be at once discharged from the service of the United States; and he shall
also be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction
thereof shall be fined in a sum not exceeding five hundred
dollars."
Curtis, the petitioner, an employ6 of the United States,
was indicted in the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York, and convicted under this act for receiving money
for political purposes from other employds of the government.
Upon his conviction he was sentenced to pay a fine, and stand
committed until payment was made. Under this sentence he
was taken into custody by the marshal, and on his application
a writ of habeas corpus was issued by one of the justices of
this court in vacation, returnable her6 at the present term, to
inquire into the validity of his detention. The important question presented on the return to the writ so issued is whether
the act under which the conviction was had is constitutional.
The case was argued by Ar. Edwin B. Smith in favor of the
petition, and by The Solicitor-aeneral in opposition thereto.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIO WAITE, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The act is not one to prohibit all contributions of money or

EX PARTE CURTIS.

[Sup. Ct.

property by the designated officers and employds of the United
States for political purposes. Neither does it prohibit them
altogether from receiving or soliciting money or property for
such purposes. It simply forbids their receiving from or giving
to each other. Beyond this no restrictions are placed on any
of their political privileges.
That the government of the United States is one of delegated powers only, and that its authority is defined and limited
by the Constitution, are no longer open questions; but express
authority is given Congress by the Constitution to make all
laws necessary and proper to carry into effect the powers that
are delegated. Art. 1, sect. 8. Within the legitimate scope
of this grant Congress is permitted to determine for itself what
is necessary and what is proper.
The act now in question is one regulating in some particulars the conduct of certain officers and employ6s of the United
States. It rests on the same principle as that originally passed
in 1789 at the first session of the first Congress, which makes
it unlawful for certain officers of the Treasury Department to
engage in the business of trade or commerce, or to own a sea
vessel, or to purchase public lands or other public property, or
to be concerned in the purchase or disposal of the public securities of a State, or of the United States (Rev. Stat., sect. 243);
and that passed in 1791, which makes it an offence for a clerk
in the same department to carry on trade or business in the
funds or debts of the States or of the United States, or in any
kind of public property (id., sect. 244); and that passed in
1812, which makes it unlawful for a judge appointed under
the authority of the United States to exercise the profession
of counsel or attorney, 'r to be engaged in the practice of the
law (id., sect. 713) ; and that passed in 1853, which prohibits
every officer of the United States or person holding any place
of trust or profit, or discharging any official function under or
in c6nnection with any executive department of the governnient of the United States, or under the Senate or House of
Representatives, from acting as an agent or attorney for the
prosecution of any claim against the United States (id., sect.
5498); and that passed in 1863, prohibiting members of Congress from practising in the Court of Claims (id., sect. 1058) ;

Oct. 1882.]

EX PARTE CURTIS.

and that passed in 1867, punishing, by dismissal from service,
an officer or employ6 of the government who requires or requests any workingman in a navy-yard to contribute or pay
any money for political purposes (id., sect. 1546) ; and that
passed in 1868, prohibiting members of Congress from being
interested in contracts with the United States (id., sect. 8739);
and another, passed in 1870, which provides that no officer,
clerk, or employ6 in the government of the United States
shall solicit contributions from other officers, clerks, or employ6s for a gift to those in a superior official position, and
that no officials or clerical superiors shall receive any gift or
present as a contribution to them from persons in government
employ getting a less salary than themselves, and that no officer or clerk shall make a donation as a gift or present to any
official superior (id., sect. 1784). Many others of a kindred
character might be referred to, but these are enough to show
what has been the practice in the Legislative Department of the
government from its organization, and, so far as we know, this
is the first time the constitutionality of such legislation has
ever been presented for judicial determination.
The evident purpose of Congress in all this class of enact.
ments has been to promote efficiency and integrity in the discharge of official duties, and to maintain proper discipline in
the public service. Clearly such a purpose is within the just
scope of legislative power, and it is not easy to see why the
act now under consideration does not come fairly within the
legitimate means to such an end. It is true, as is claimed by
the counsel for the petitioner, political assessments upon officeholders are not prohibited. The managers of political campaigns, not in the employ of the United States, are just as free
now to call on those in office for money to be used for political
purposes as ever they were, and those in office can contribute
as liberally as they please, provided their payments are not made
to any of the prohibited officers or employ6s. What we are
now considering is not whether Congress has gone as far as it
may, but whether that which has been done is within the constitutional limits upon its legislative discretion.
A feeling of independence under the law conduces to faithful public service, and nothing tends more to take away this

EX PARTE OURTIS.

(Sup. Ot.

feeling than a dread of dismissal. If contributions from those
in public employment may be solicited by others in official authority, it is easy to see that what begins as a request may end
as a demand, and that a failure to meet the demand may be
treated by those having the power of removal as a breach of
some supposed duty, growing out of the political relations of the
parties. Contributions secured under such circumstances will
quite as likely be made to avoid the consequences of the personal
displeasure of a superior, as to promote the political views of the
contributor, - to avoid a discharge from service, not to exercise
a political privilege. The law contemplates no restrictions upon
either giving or receiving, except so far as may be necessary
to protect, in some degree, those in the public service against
exactions through fear of personal loss. This purpose of the
restriction, and the principle on which it rests, are most distinctly manifested in sect. 1546, supra, the re-enactment in the
Revised Statutes of sect. 3 of the act of June 30, 1868, c. 172,
which subjected an officer or employ6 of the government to
dismissal if he required or requested a workingman in a navyyard to contribute or pay any money for political purposes, and
prohibited the removal or discharge of a workingman for his
political opinions; and in sect. 1784, the re-enactment of the
act of Feb. 1, 1870, c. 63, "to protect officials in public employ," by providing for the summary discharge of those who
make or solicit contributions for presents to superior officers.
No one can for a moment doubt that in both these statutes the
object was to protect the classes of officials and employ6s provided for from being compelled to make contributions for such
purposes through fear of dismissal if they refused. It is true
that dismissal from service is the only penalty imposed, but this
penalty is given for doing what is made a wrongful act. If it is
constitutional to prohibit the act, the kind or degree of punishment to he inflicted for disregarding the prohibition is clearly
within the discretion of Congress, provided it be not cruel or
unusual.
If there were no other reasons for legislation of this character than such as relate to the protection of those in the public
service against unjust exactions, its constitutionality would, in
our opinion, be clear; but there are others, to our minds, equally

Oct. 1882.]

EX PARTE OURTIS.

good. If persons in public employ may be called on by those
in authority to contribute from their personal income to the
expenses of political campaigns, and a refusal may lead to putting good men out of the service, liberal payments may be made
the ground for keeping poor ones in. So, too, if a part of the
compensation received for public services must be contributed
for political purposes, it is easy to see that an increase of compensation may be required to provide the means to make the
contribution, and that in this way the government itself may
be made to furnish indirectly the money to defray the expenses
of keeping the political party in power that happens to have for
the time being the control of the public patronage. Political
parties must almost necessarily exist under a republican form
of government; and when public employment depends to any
considerable extent on party success, those in office will naturally be desirous of keeping the party to which they belong
in power. The statute we are now considering does not interfere with this. The apparent end of Congress will be
accomplished if it prevents those in power from requiring
help for such purposes as a condition to continued employment.
We deem it unnecessary to pursue the subject further. In
our opinion the statute under which the petitioner was -convicted is constitutional. The other objections which have been
urged to the detention cannot be considered in this form of proceeding. Our inquiries in this class of cases are limited to
such objections as relate to the authority of the court to render
the judgment by which the prisoner is held. We have no general power to review the judgments of the inferior courts of
the United States in criminal cases, by the use of the writ
of habeas corpus or otherwise. Our jurisdiction is limited
to the single question of the power of the court to commit
the prisoner for the act of which he has been convicted.
Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163; -Ex parte Bowland, 104 U. S.
604.
The commitment in this case wa§ lawful, and the petitioner
is, consequently,
Remanded to the custody of the marshalfor the Southern District of New York.

Ex

PARTE OURTIS.

[Sup. Ot.

MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY dissenting.
I cannot concur in the opinion of the court in this case.
The law under which the petitioner is imprisoned makes it
a penal offence for any executive officer or employ6 of the
United States, not appointed by advice of the Senate [an unimportant distinction, so far as the power to make the law is
concerned], to request, give to, or receive from any other officer or employ6 of the government any money, or property, or
other thing of value, for political purposes; thus, in effect,
making it a condition of accepting any employment under the
government that a man shall not, even voluntarily and of his
own free will, contribute in any way through or by the hands
of any other employ6 of the government to the political cause
which he desires to aid and promote. I do not believe that
Congress has any right to impose such a condition upon any
citizen of the United States. The offices of the government
do not belong to the Legislative Department to dispose of on
any conditions it may choose to impose. The legislature creates most of the offices, it is true, and provides compensation
for the discharge of their duties: but that is its duty to do, in
order to establish a complete organization of the functions of
government. Wheh established, the offices are, or ought to
be, open to all. They belong to the United States, and not to
Congress; and every citizen having the proper qualifications
has the right to accept office, and to be a candidate therefor.
This is'a fundamental right of which the legislature cannot
deprive the citizen, nor clog its exercise with conditions that
are repugnant to his other fundamental rights. Such a condition I regard that imposed by the law in question to be. It
prevents the citizen from co-operating with other citizens of
his own choice in the promotion of his political views. To
take an interest in public affairs, and to further and promote
those principles which are believed to be vital or important to
the general welfare, is every citizen's duty. It is a just complaint that so many good men abstain from taking such an
interest. Amongst the necessary and proper means for promoting political views, or any other views, are association and
contribution of money for that purpose, both to aid discussion
and to disseminate information and sound doctrine. To deny

Oct. 1882.]

Ex

PARTE CURTIS.

to a man the privilege of associating and making joint contributions with such other citizens as he may choose, is an unjust
restraint of his right to propagate and promote his views on
public affairs. The freedom of speech and of the press, and
that of assembling together to consult upon and discuss matters of public interest, and to join in petitioning for a redress
of grievances, are expressly secured by the Constitution. The
spirit of this clause covers and embraces the right of every citizen to engage in such discussions, and to promote the views of
himself and his associates freely, without being trammelled by
inconvenient restrictions. Such restrictions, in my judgment,
are imposed by the law in question. Every person accepting
any, the most insignificant, employment under the government
must withdraw himself from all societies and associations having for object the promotion of political information or opinions. For if one officer may continue his connection, others
may do the same, and thus it can hardly fail to happen that
some of them will give and some receive funds mutually contributed for the purposes of the association. Congress might
just as well, so far as the power is concerned, impose, as a condition of taking any employment under the government, entire
silence on political subjects, and a prohibition of all conversation thereon between government employ6s. Nay, it might
as well prohibit the discussion of religious questions, or the
mutual contribution of funds for missionary or other religious
purposes. In former times, when the slavery question was
agitated, this would have been a very convenient law to repress all discussion of the subject on either side of Mason and
Dixon's line. At the present time any efficient connection
with an association in favor of a prohibitory liquor law, or of
a protective tariff, or of greenback currency, or even for the
repression of political assessments, would render any government official obnoxious to the penalties of the law under consideration. For all these questions have become political in
their character, and any contributions in aid of the cause
would be contributions for political purposes. The whole
thing seems to me absurd. Neither men's mouths nor their
purses can be constitutionally tied up in that way. The truth
is, that public opinion is oftentimes like a pendulum, swinging

EX PARTE OURTIS.

[Sup. Ot.

backward and forward to extreme lengths. We are not unfrequently in danger of becoming purists, instead of wise reformers, in particular directions; and hastily pass inconsiderate
laws which overreach the mark they are aimed at, or conflict
with rights and privileges that a sober mind would regard as
indisputable. It seems to me that the present law, taken in
all its breadth, is one of this kind.
The legislature may, undoubtedly, pass laws excluding from
particular offices those who are engaged in pursuits incompatible with the faithful discharge of the duties of such offices.
That is quite another thing.
The legislature may make laws ever so stringent to prevent
thecorrupt use of money in elections, or in political matters
generally, or to prevent what are called political assessments
on government employds, or any other exercise of undue influence over them by government officials or others. That
would be all right. That would clearly be within the province
of legislation.
It is urged that the law in question is intended, so far as it
goes, to effect this very thing. Probably it is. But the end
does not always sanctify the means. What I contend is, that
in adopting this particular mode of restraining an acknowledged evil, Congress has overstepped its legitimate powers,
and interfered with the substantial rights of the citizen. It is
not lawful to do evil that good may come. There are plenty
of ways in which wrong may be suppressed without resorting
to wrongful measures to do it. No doubt it would often
greatly tend to prevent the spread of a contagious and deadly
epidemic, if those first taken should be immediately sacrificed
to the public good. But such a mode of preventing the evil
would hardly be regarded as legitimate in a Christian country.
I have no wish to discuss the subject at length, but simply
to express the general grounds on which I think the legislation
in question is ultra vires. Though as much opposed as any one
to the evil sought to be remedied, I do not think the mode
adopted is a legitimate or constitutional one, because it interferes too much with the freedom of the citizen in the pursuit
of lawful and proper ends. If similar laws have been passed
before, that does not make it right. The question is, whether

Oct. 1882.]

GEEKIE V.KIRBY CARPENTER

Co.

the present law, with its sweeping provisions, is within the
just powers of Congress. As I do not think it is, I dissent
from the opinion of the majority of the court.

GEEKIE V. KIRBY CARPENTER COMPANY.
1. Under section 5 of chapter 138 of the General Laws of Wisconsin, of 1861,
providing that "no action shall be commenced by the former owner or
owners of any lands, or by any person claiming under him or them, to recover possession of land which has been sold and conveyed by deed for
non-payment of taxes, or to avoid such deed, unless such action shall be
commenced within three years next after the recording of such deed," land
is to be regarded as having been sold for non-payment of taxes, although
the sum to raise which it was sold included five cents for a United States
revenue stamp, to be put, and which was put, on the certificate issued to
the purchaser on the sale.
2. A deed on a tax sale recites that "S. A. Coleman, assignee of Oconto County,"
has deposited certificates of sale showing that five parcels, each of which
sold for so much, were sold "to the said Oconto County, and by its treasurer assigned to S. A. Coleman" for so much "in the whole," the total
being the sum of the five several sums. The statute, c. 50, sect. 22, of the
General Laws of Wisconsin, of 1859, prescribes a form of deed, and provides
that it shall be "substantially" in that or "other equivalent form," showing that the land was sold for a sum named "in the whole," Held, that
the deed is in substantial compliance with the form prescribed.
3. A sheriff having possession of property under a writ of attachment is not
bound by the judgment in a replevin suit to which he was not a party,
and in which he was not served with process, and did not appear, and which
he did not defend, although his under sheriff, as an individual, was a party
to the suit.
4. Qucere, Are the waters of the Menominee River, which is the boundary between AMichigan and Wisconsin, within the concurrent jurisdiction of both
Wisconsin and Michigan.
5. Although there was no general verdict in this case, and no special verdict
in any form known to tile common law, and no waiver in writing of a jury
trial, and no such finding of the court below upon the facts as is provided
for by sect. 649 of the Revised Statutes, this court, on a written stipulation
filed here by the parties, agreeing upon the facts, reviewed the case on a
writ of error, reversed a judgment below for the defendant, and directed
a judgment for tle plaintiff.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court,

