Ot. 1882.]

LANDSDALE V. SMITH.

LANDSDALE V. S=ITH.
A bill is bad on demurrer when it appears therefrom that there have been unreasonable delay and laches on the part of the complainant, or those under
whom he claims, in asserting the rights which lie seeks to enforce.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
By duly recorded deed of July 18, 1818, signed by John P.
Van Ness (his wife uniting in the conveyance) and by Noah
Stinchcomb, the former conveyed to the latter, at a fixed
annual rent, lot 3, square 455, in the city of Washington, to
have and to hold, &c., unto Stinchcomb, his executors, administrators, and assigns, for the term of ninety years, renewable
forever. Stinchcomb entered under the deed, made valuable
improvements upon the lot, and remained in possession until
the year 1833 or 1834, when Van Ness repossessed himself of
the premises, in virtue of a clause in the deed in these words:
".Provided always, that if the said rent or any part thereof
shall be in arrear and unpaid for the space of thirty days next
after the time at which the same is reserved to be paid, as
above, being first lawfully demanded, that then it shall and
may be lawful to and for the said John, his heirs and assigns,
into the demised premises or any part thereof, in the name of
the whole, to re-enter, and the same to have again, repossess,
occupy, and enjoy, as in his or their former estate, until all
such arrearages of rent, with legal interest from the time at
which said rent shall have become payable, and all and every
cost, charge, and expense incurred by reason of the non-payment
of said rent shall be lawfully satisfied and paid, or make distress therefor, at his or their option."
Stinchcomb died on the 11th of February, 1841, without, so
far as the bill discloses, making any effort to repossess himself
of the property. Van Ness died in 184-, and, upon the division of his estate, the lot in question was assigned to Matilda
E. Van Ness, one of his heirs-at-law, under whom and her
assigns the defendants hold it.
The complainant, as administratrix of Stinchcomb, having
offered, and now offering, to pay all rents, interest, charges, and

LANDSDALE V. SMITH.

[Sup. at.

costs, which may have accrued upon the property, filed her bill,
wherein she asks a decree permitting her to redeem the same,
and ordering an account, which will show, as well the principal
and interest of rents in arrear due defendants as the rents and
profits received by the latter since they entered into possession,
setting off the one against the other.
Such is, substantially, the case made, and such the relief
asked, notwithstanding forty-five years have elapsed since the
re-entryof Van Ness, "as in his . . former estate," and more
than thirty since his death and the assignment of the lot in
questiofh to one of his heirs-at-law.
The court dismissed, on demurrer, the bill, and the complainant appealed here.
Mr. H. 0. Claughton, with whom were Mr. C. P. Culver and
-Mr. Thomas Jesup Miller, for the appellant.
Mr. Job Barnard and Mr. James S. Edwards for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It has been a recognized doctrine of courts in equity, from
the very beginning of their jurisdiction, to withhold relief from
those who have delayed for an unreasonable length of time in
asserting their claims. Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152;
Piattv. Fattier,9 Pet. 405; Maxwell v. Kennedy, 8 How. 210;
Badger v. Badger, 2 Wall. 87; Cholmondeley v. Clinton, 2 Jac.
& W. 1 ; 2 Story, Eq. Jur., sect. 1520. In Wagner v. Baird,
7 How. 234, it was said that long acquiescence and laches by
parties out of possession are productive of much hardship and
injustice to others, and cannot be excused except by showing
some actual hindrance or impediment, caused by the fraud or
concealment of the party in possession, which will appeal to
the conscience of the Chancellor.
And,. contrary to the view pressed in argument, a defence
grounded upon the staleness of the claim asserted, or upon the
gross laches- of the, party asserting it, may be made by demurrer, not, necessarily, by plea or answer. A different rule has
been announced by some authors, and in some adjudged cases;
generally, however, upon the authority of the case of Tie Earl

Oct. 1882.]

LANDSDALE V. SMITH.,

of Delorane v. Browne, 3 Bro. C. C. 633. Lord Thurlow, who
decided that case, is reported to have declared, when overruling a demurrer to a bill charging fraudulent representations as
to the value of an estate, and praying an account of rents,
profits, &c., that his action was based upon the ground that
length of time, proprio jure, -was no reason for a demurrer;
that it was only a conclusion from facts, showing acquiescence,
and was not matter of law; and that he could not allow a
party to avail himself of an inference from facts on a demurrer.
But in Hovenden v. Lord Annesley, 2 Sch. & Lef. 607, decided
in 1806, Lord Redesdale expressed his disapproval of the decision of Lord Thurlow, as reported by Brown, and said that it
was rendered in a hurry, when the latter was about to surrender the seals, and when much injury might have been done to
parties had judgments not been given before the latter retired
from office.
The rule, as announced in Hovenden v. Lord
Annesley, was, "that when a party does not by his bill bring
himself within the rule of the court, the other party may by
demurrer demand judgment, whether he ought to be compelled
to answer. If the case of the plaintiff, as stated 'in the bill,
will not entitle him to a decree, the judgment of the court may
be required by demurrer, whether the defendant ought to -be
compelled to answer the bill." That, the court said, was
matter of the law of a court of equity, to be determined according to its rules and principles.
Such is, undoubtedly, the established doctrine of this court
as announced in many cases. In ilIaxwell v. Kennedy, supra,
the court, speaking by Mr. Chief Justice Taney, approved the
rule as announced by Lord Redesdale. After referring to Piatt
v. Mattier, supra, and to 3IeJKnight v. Taylor, 1 Ho*. 161, and
Bowman v. Wathen, id. 189, it was said, that "the proper
rule of pleading would seem to be that-when the case stated
by the bill appears to be one in which a court of equity will
refuse its aid, the defendant should be permitted to resist it by
demurrer. And as the laches of the complainant in asserting
his claim is a bar in equity, if that objection, is apparent-on the
bill itself, there can be no good reason for requiring a plea or
answer to bring it to the notice of the court." In the more
recent case of Badger v. Badger, supra, the court, speaking by

LANDSDALE V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. Justice Grier, said, that a party, who makes an appeal to
the conscience of the Chancellor, "should set forth in his bill
specifically what were the impediments to an earlier prosecution
of his claim; how he came to be so long ignorant of his rights,
and the means used by the respondent to fraudulently keep him
in ignorance; and how and when he first came to a knowledge
of the matters alleged in his bill; otherwise the Chancellor
may justly refuse to consider his case, on his own showing,
without inquiry whether there is a demurrer or formal plea of
the Statute of Limitations contained in the answer." p. 95.
These principles are decisive of the case before us. It is
plainly one of gross laches on the part of Stinchcomb and
those claiming under him. His right under the deed of 1818,
to repossess himself of the premises by paying rents and
charges in arrear, accrued the moment Van Ness re-entered.
But the assertion of it could not be safely neglected for an unreasonable length of time. The bill discloses no plausible,
much less sufficient, explanation of the long delay ensuing,
after 1833, without an attempt by Stinchcomb, his representatives or his heirs, to recover the property, by discharging the
rents and charges in arrear, and re-entering, as might have
been done, in pursuance of the provisions of that deed. On
the contrary, the facts set out in the bill justify the conclusion
either that he elected in his lifetime to abandon his claim, or
that it was, in some way, satisfactorily arranged or discharged.
The complainant and those whom she represents have slept too
long upon their rights. The peace of society and the security
of property demand that the presumption of right, arising from
a great lapse of time, without the assertion of an adverse claim,
should not be disturbed. In such cases, sound discretion requires that the court should withhold relief.
Some reference has been made to the decisions of the Supreme Court of Maryland, the laws of which State, as they
existed on the 27th of February, 1801, except as since modified or repealed by Congress, continue in force in this District.
It is only necessary to say that the principles to which we have
referred have been steadily upheld by that court, not upon the
ground of any changes in the law of the State since 1801, but
in deference to the established doctrines governing courts of

Oct. 1882.]

KING V. CORNELL.

equity in giving relief to those who seek the enforcement of
antiquated demands. Rep burn's Case, 3 Bland (Md.), 95;
Hawkins v. Chapman, 36 Md. 83; Nelson v. Hagerstown Bank,
27 id. 51; Syester v. Brewer, id. 288; Frazier v. Gelston, 35
id. 298.
For the reasons given, we are of opinion that the court below
properly sustained the demurrer, and dismissed the bill for
want of equity.
Decree affirmed.

KItG V. CoRN=_z.
1. Where a citizen of a State sues in a court thereof a citizen of the same State
and an alien, the latter is not entitled to remove the suit to the Circuit
Court.
2. The act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, repealed the second clause of section 639 of
the Revised Statutes.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. William 3l Evarts and A1r. Joseph H. Choate for the
appellant.
Mr. Samuel H. Wilcox for the appellees.
MR. CHE, JusTicE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a suit begun in the Supreme Court of New York by
a citizen of that State against other citizens of the same State
and Henry Seymour King, an alien, and a subject of the Queen
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. King,
claiming that there could be a final determination of the controversy, so far as it concerned him, without the presence of
the other defendants, as parties in the cause, filed his petition
for a removal to the Circuit Court of the United States. It
was granted. In the Circuit Court a motion was made to
remand the cause, and, an order to that effect having been
entered, this appeal therefrom was taken.

