Oct. 1882.]

YOUNGSTOWN BANK V. HUGHES.

the acting Register of the Treasury. By the act of Feb. 20,
1863, c. 45, the President was authorized to designate some
officer in a department to perform the duties of another in case
of death, resignation, absence, or sickness.
The second ground of application presents no jurisdictional
question. The indictment charged the prisoner with a crime
against the laws of the United States, United States V. Marigold, 9 How. 560. We have nothing to do with questions arising on the evidence presented to sustain the charg4.
-Petitiondenied.

YOUNGSTowN BAxt

v. HuGims.

The value of the matter in dispute, when the jurisdiction of this court depends
thereon, must be such as can be ascertained in money, and, if not disclosed by
the record, may be shown by affidavits.

ON motion to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Ohio.
The case in stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. W. C1. McFarlandin support of the motion.
Mr. Sidney Strong, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIOE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Section 2782 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio (1880) provides,
that if a county auditor has reason to believe or is informed
that any person has given to a tax-assessor a false statement of
his personal property, moneys, &c., or that the assessor has
made an erroneous return of any property, moneys, &c., which
are by law subject to taxation, he may proceed to correct the
return and to charge such persons on the tax duplicate with
the proper amount of taxes; "to enable him to do which he is
.. . authorized and empowered to issue compulsory process,
and require the attendance of any person or persons whom he
may suppose to have a knowledge of the articles, or value of
the personal property, moneys, or credits, investments in bonds,

YOUNGSTOWN BANK

v.

HUGHES.

[Sup. Ct.

stocks, joint-stock companies, or otherwise, and examine such
person or persons, on oath, in relation to such statement or
return."
Section 2783 provides for process of subpoena in case any
person shall neglect to appear and testify when called on by
the auditor, and for punishment for contempt.
Under the authority of this statute the auditor of Mahoning
County, in the exercise of his power to charge persons on the
tax duplicate with the proper amount of taxes, called on the
cashier of the First National Bank of Youngstown to appear
and testify, and, because he could not testify without, to bring
with him, the books of the bank showing its deposits. Thereupon the bank filed a bill in equity to enjoin the auditor, alleging for cause that such a proceeding on his part would
unlawfully expose its business affairs, lessen public confidence
in it as a depository of moneys, diminish its deposits, and
greatly impair the value of its franchises. The Circuit Court
dismissed the bill, and the bank appealed. A motion is now
made to dismiss the appeal for want of jurisdiction,,because the
value of the matter in dispute does not exceed $5,000.
In Barry v. lereein, 5 How. 103, it was decided that to give
this court jurisdiction in cases dependent upon the amount in
controversy, "the matter in dispute must be money, or some
right, the value of which, in money, can be calculated and ascertained." To the same effect are Pratt v. .Fitzhugh, 1 Black,
271 ; De Krafft v. Barneyl, 2 id. 704; Potts v. Chuumasero, 92
U. S.358, 361.
The present suit is not for money, nor for anything the
value of which can be measured by money. The bank has no
interest in the taxes to be placed on the tax duplicate. There
is no property in dispute between the auditor and the bank.
If the cashier is compelled to testify and to produce the books
to be used in evidence for the purposes required, the damages,
if any, resulting to the bank, would be, in the highest degree,
remote and speculative. Certainly no suit for even nominal
damages could be sustained against the auditor on account of
what he had done. All the cashier is required to do, is to give
testimony in a proceeding instituted under the authority of
law by the auditor to perfect the tax lists of the county. It is

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES v. STONE.

supposed the books of the bank contain evidence pertinent to
this inquiry, and appropriate measures are taken to have them
produced for examination. The case is in no respect different
in principle from what it would be if the evidence was called
for in an ordinary suit in a court of justice between individuals.
Affidavits can only be used to furnish evidence of value not
appearing on the face of the record when the nature of the
matter in dispute is such as to admit of an estimate of its value
in money.
Appeal dismissed.

UNITED STATES V. STONE.
STONE V. UNITED STATES.
1. Where nil debet is pleaded, it is not error to strike out a notice of special
matter to be given in evidence, where evidence of such matter is admissible under the plea.
2. In a suit by the United States upon the official bond of a collector of internal
revenue, transcripts from the books of the Treasury Department of his
accounts, containing the usual items and showing the balances between the
debits and credits, were put in evidence by the plaintiff. Held, that the
papers, being in proper form and duly certified, are admissible; and an
objection disclosed only by comparing them with other transcripts offered
by him lies not to the competency of the evidence, but to its effect.
3. Where he served for two successive terms, his sureties under his second
appointment are liable for taxes which he, during his service thereunder,
collected upon assessment rolls received during the first term, and for
moneys or stamps remaining on hand at the expiration of that term.
4. Although the transcripts are evidence of the amount, date, and manner of the
officer's indebtedness, his sureties may, by other treasury transcripts, show
that his default, in whole or in part, occurred during his first term; that
credits were applied on a prior account, although they belonged to subsequent accounts; and that to the latter debits were improperly transferred.
5. It is not a valid objection to the introduction of the transcripts offered by the
sureties that they do not on their face establish errors in the adjustment
upon which the plaintiff relies, but require further evidence. The failure to
produce such evidence furnishes ground only for their ultimate exclusion,
or for an instruction to the jury as to their effect.

ERROR to the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Mississippi.

