UNITED STATES V. DENVIR.

[Sup. Ct.

URITED STATES v. DENVIR.
An officer charged with the disbursement of public moneys is not liable for interest thereon, if he has not converted them to his own use, nor neglected to disburse them pursuant to law, nor, when thereunto required, failed to account
for or transfer them.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts.

The Solicitor-General for the United States.
There was no opposing counsel.
MR. JUSTICE MrLLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The United States recovered a judgment in the court below
against Denvir, on a bond which he, as surety, bad given for the
faithful performance by David F. Power of all his duties as
acting assistant paymaster in the navy of the United States.
There was no service on Power, nor was an appearance entered
for him. No defence by Denvir having been made, judgment
was rendered for the sum of money found to be in the hands
of the paymaster, with interest from the service of the writ in
this suit, in March, 1875. The United States asserted a right
to interest from the date of the last receipt of money by the
paymaster, namely, August, 1865, and excepted because the
court overruled this proposition.
No evidence was given of any demand on the paymaster, or
any refusal to pay or transfer the fund in his hands, or to comply with any lawful order on the subject.
Though the condition of the bond is not exactly the same as
in the case of United States v. Curtis, 100 U. S. 119, the principle of that case must control this.
That principle is that where an officer of the government has
money committed to his charge, with the duty of disbursing or
paying it out as occasion may arise, he cannot be charged with
interest on such money until it is shown that he has failed to
pay when such occasion required him to do so, or has failed to
account when required by the government, or to pay over or
transfer the money on some lawful order.

Oct. 1882.]

DETROIT V. DEAN.

The mere proof that the money was received by him raises
no obligation to pay interest in the absence of some evidence of
conversion or some refusal to respond to a lawful requirement.
The obvious reason for this is that the government places
the money in the hands of this class of officers, and all others
who are disbursing officers, that it may remain there until
needed for use in the line of that officer's duty; and until that
duty requires such payment, or a return of the money to the
proper department of the government, he is in no default, and
cannot be required to pay interest.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTE. - United States v. Knowles, error to the same court as the preceding
case, was submitted at the same time for the United States by The SolicitorO neral.
Mn. JUsTIcn If=LEt, who delivered the opinion of the court, remarked, that
this case differed from that only in the circumstance that it was a suit on the
bond of a military storekeeper in the army, and the amount found due had
reference to property as well as money.
The same question as to interest was raised, and the court, on the ground
that no demand had been made until the service of the writ, only allowed interest from that date.
Though, in the case of personal property and, indeed, of money so held, proof
of a conversion might justify interest from the date of such conversion, there
was no evidence in this case of such conversion or of an earlier demand than
that made by the service of the writ.
Judgment affirmed.

DETRoIT v. DFAN.
A stockholder of a corporation, in order to protect its rights and property against
the threatened action of a third party, filed his bill against the latter and the
corporation, alleging, inter alia,that the directors, although thereunto requested,
had neglected and refused to institute proceedings. Held,that he must show
a clear case of such absolute and unjustifiable neglect and refusal of the directors to act as would lead to his irreparable injury, should he not be permitted
to bring the suit. Hawes v. Oakland, 104 U. S. 450, cited upon this point and
approved.

APPEAIL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

