SCHOOL DISTRICT OF ACKLEY V. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

patent the invention described in the Cot6 patent is clear and
is not denied. It is evident that the Cot6 machine does not infringe the original patent of Moffitt. The "former" described
in the original specification of Moffitt being elongated in crosssection and eccentrically set upon its shaft, could not have
either a rotating or reciprocating movement in the semi-circular
grooved mould of the Cotg patent, and by no stretch of construction could the stationary grooved mould of the latter patent be considered the equivalent of the cylindrical revolving
rollers of Moffitt's original patent.
The specification and first claim of .the reissued patent are
a plain attempt to include a device which was not and could
not be fairly covered by the original patent. That claim is,
therefore, for that reason void. Gill v. Wells, 22 Wall. 1;
The Wood Paper Patent, 23 id. 566; Powder Company v.
Powder Works, 98-U. S. 126; Ball v. Langles, 102 id. 128;
Miller v. Brass Company, 104 id. 850; James v. Campbell,
id. 856; Heald v. Rice, id. 737; Bantz v. Frantz, 105 id.
160; ohnson v. Railroad Company, id. 539. And the evidence shows no infringement of any other claim of the reissued patent.
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill was
therefore right, and must be
Affirmed.

SCHOOL DISTRICT OF ACKLEY v. HALL.
A writ of error will not be dismissed for want of jurisdiction by reason of a failure to annex thereto or return therewith an assignment of errors, pursuant to
the requirements of sect. 997 Rev. Stat.
MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Iowa, with which is united a
motion to affirm.
Mr. Walter ff. Smith and Mr. Alexander T Britton in support of the motions.
Mr. aalusha Parsons, contra.

Oct. 1882.]

GRANT V. PH(ENIX INS. CO.

MiR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
A failure to annex to or return with a writ of error an
assignment of errors, as required by sect. 997 of the Revised
Statutes, is no ground for dismissal for want of jurisdiction.
If an assignment is filed in accordance with the requirements
of par. 4, Rule 21, it will ordinarily be enough.
There is not in this case such a color of right to a dismissal
as to make it proper for us to consider the motion to affirm.
Whitney v. Cook, 99 U. S. 607.
Motions denied.
-4-,

GRANT v. PH(ENIX INSURANCE COMPANY.
A decree is not final within the meaning of the act conferring appellate jurisdiction, unless upon its affirmance nothing remains but to execute it. The court
therefore dismisses an appeal by the defendant in a foreclosure suit from the
decree therein rendered, which neither finds the amount due nor orders the
sale of the mortgaged property, although it overrules his defence, declares
the complainant to be holder of the mortgage, and, in order to ascertain the
amount due him and other lien creditors, and for taxes, refers the case to a
master, and appoints a receiver to take charge of the property.
MOTION to dismiss an appeal from the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia.
This is an appeal from the following decree in a suit for the
foreclosure of certain deeds of trust in the nature of mortgages
to secure the payment of money "The cause came on to be heard upon the pleadings and
proofs therein, and having been submitted by the counsel of
the respective parties and duly considered b'r the court, and it
appearing to the court that said defendant, Albert Grant, is
not entitled to any relief under his cross-bill in this cause;
that the plaintiff is the holder and owner of the several obligations of said Grant, secured by the deeds of trust on the real
estate prayed in the original bill of complaint herein to be sold
for the payment of the indebtedness thereon, and mentioned

