Oct. 1882.]

COTTON-TIE Co. v. SIMMONS.

be answered in the affirmative, and dispense with the necessity
of examining into the assignment of errors growing out of the
trial before the jury.
Judgment reversed with directions to grant a new trial.

CoT oN-TiE ComPArNY v. SD-roNs.
The owner of patents for improvements in metallic cotton-bale ties, each tie consisting of a buckle and a band, granted no license to manufacture the ties, but
supplied the market with them, the words, "Licensed to use once only," being
stamped in the metal of the buckle. After the bands had been severed at the
cotton-mill, A., who bought them and the buckles as scrap-iron, rolled and
straightened the pieces of the bands, and riveted together their ends. He then
cut them into proper lengths and sold them with the buckles, to be used as
ties, nothing having been done to the buckles. Held, that A. thereby infringed the patents.
Quir'e, Would A.'s sale of the buckle, apart from the band, be an infringement
of the patents.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Rhode Island.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Hr. Samuel A. Duncan for the appellants.
Mr. Benjamin P. Thurston for the appellees.
Mn. JUSTiCE BLATOHFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal by the plaintiffs in a suit in equity from a
decree dismissing the bill of complaint. The suit was brought
for the infringement of three several letters-patent, -No. 19,490,
granted to Frederic Cook, March 2, 1858, for an "improvement
in metallic ties for cotton-bales," and extended for seven years
from March 2, 1872; reissued letters-patent No. 5333, granted
to James J. McComb, as assignee of George Brodie, March 25,
1873, for an "improvement in cotton-bale ties" (the original
patent having been granted to Brodie, as inventor, March 22,
1859, and reissued to him April 27, 1869, and extended for
seven years from March 22, 1873); and No. 31,252, granted
to J. J. McComb, Jan. 29, 1861, for an "improvement in iron

COTTO-TIE Co. v.

SuIoNS.

[Sup. Ot.

ties for cotton-bales," and extended for seven years from Jan.
29, 1875. They are severally known as the Cook, the Brodie,
and the McComb patents. The Cook patent expired March 2,
1879; the Brodie patent, March 22, 1880; and the McComb
patent, Jan. 29, 1882. The plaintiffs are the American Cotton-Tie Company, Limited, A British corporation; James J.
McComb, administrator of Mary F. McComb, deceased; and
the said James J. McComb, Charles G. Johnsen, and Emerson
Foote, each in his own behalf and as a copartner in a firm
called the American Cotton-Tie Company. The defendants
are Simeon W. Simmons and two other persons, doing business
as the Providence Cotton-Tie Company. The Cook patent
was assigned to McComb March 21, 1872. The Brodie reissue
of 1869, with all rights to reissue, renewal, and extension, was
assigned to McComb March 19, 1873. On the 22d of June,
1874, McComb assigned to himself, Johnsen, and Foote, who
composed the firm called the American Cotton-Tie Company,
the Cook patent as extended, and the Brodie patent as reissued
in 1869 and as extended. Mary F. McComb became, in 1861,
the owner of the McComb patent. She died in 1874, intestate,
and McComb was appointed her administrator. On the 1st of
March, 1876, the firm called the American Cotton-Tie Company assigned to the corporation called the American CottonTie Company, Limited, the Cook patent as extended, and the
Brodie patent as extended and as reissued in 1873. On the
same day McComb, individually and as administrator, assigned
to the said corporation the McComb patent and its extension.
The bill is in the usual form, and was filed in November,
1876. It alleges that the defendants have made, used, and
sold to others .to be used, the patented inventions, and, also,
metallic ties for cotton bales containing the patented inventions.
No defence affecting the validity of the patents sued on is set
up in the answer. The only defence pleaded or made is as to
infringement.
The corporation plaintiff, since it acquired title to the three
patents in March, 1876, has carried on the business of making
cotton-bale ties under the patents. The form of tie it has
principally made is the form of the McComb patent, which is
called the "arrow tie," from the shape of the five-sided hole

Oct. 1882.]

COTTON-TisE Co. v. SIMIONS.

cut in the plate of the buckle. It has not granted any licenses
to make the ties, but has itself supplied the demand for them.
The tie consists of a buckle and a band, all made of metal.
The band goes around the bale, and the two ends of it are confined by means of the buckle. On each of the buckles which
the corporation has made and put upon the market it has
placed the words "Licensed to use once only," stamped into the
body of the metal. This practice was also observed by its predecessor, the copartnership firm. The tie, consisting of buckle
and band, is purchased by the person who desires to use it to
confine the cotton in the bale, and is placed around the bale on
the plantation or at the cotton-press. It remains on the bale
until the bale reaches the cotton-mill, and the band of the tie,
which is of hoop-iron, is then cut. The buckle and the band,
thus free, become scrap-iron, and are sold as such. The hoop
is too short for the length required for baling, if it were to be
mended by lapping and riveting the two ends at the place of
severance, and to bale with it requires that there should be a
free end which may be confined at the buckle in the process of
baling. The defendantsb uy the buckles and severed hoops at
the cotton-mills, as scrap-iron, the hoops, when bought, being
in bundles, bent, and being pieces of unequal lengths, some cut
at one distance from the buckle, and some at another. The
defendants straighten the old pieces of hoop and roll them by
cold rolling, and punch the ends with holes, and rivet the pieces
together, and form a band by cutting it to the proper length,
which band, with the buckle accompanying it, makes a tie
ready for use. In using the tie one end of the band is attached
to one end of the buckle by a loop in that end of the band,
and then the band is passed around the bale, and its free
end is slipped, by a loop made in it, through a slit in the
buckle, around the other end of the buckle, while the bale
is under pressure. When the pressure is removed the expansive force of the compressed cotton holds the looped ends of
the bands in place in the buckle, the looped ends being confined between the bale and the body of the band. The use of
the arrow tie has been very extensive. The defendants sell to
others to be used the ties which they so prepare, and do not
themselves bale cotton with them. Baled cotton is sold in the

COTTON-TIE Co. v. SIMIONS.

[Sup. Ct.

United States without tare, that is, the iron of the buckle and
the hoop is weighed with the cotton and the bagging, and the
whole is sold by weight at the price of the cotton per pound.
The scrap-iron consisting of the buckles and cut hoops is sold
at one cent and a quarter per pound, while the corporation sells
its ties at six cents per pound.

The specification of the Cook patent describes a buckle with
a slot cut through one of its end bars, so that the end of the
band may be slipped through sidewise instead of being pushed
through endwise.

The third claim is to "the herein-described

'slot,' cut through one bar of clasp, which enables the end of
the tie or hoop to be slipped sidewise underneath the bar in

clasp, so as to effect the fastening with greater rapidity than
by passing the end of the tie through endwise;"
The specification of the Brodie reissue states that his invention "relates to the combination with open-slot ties of metallic

bands having their ends free, and held in position by the expansion of the bale." Some of the drawings show an open
slotted link or buckle in connection with a band, and the specification states that the ends of the band are "turned under
the link and held in-position by the pressure exerted by the ex-

pansion of the bale."

It adds: "In the latter mode of use the

slack may be readily taken up by forming the loop in the iron
at the moment of making the fastening, and passing the end
thus looped through the opening in the side of the link. The
band is thus slipped sidewise through the opening into the slot

instead of thrusting it through endwise." The third, fourth,
and fifth claims of the Brodie reissue are in these words:
"8. The combination of an open slot for introducing the band
sidewise with a link having a single rectangular opening for

holding both ends of a metallic band, and the band. 4. An
open slotted link, when combined with metallic bands, the ends
of which are turned under the link and held in position by the
expansion of the bale. 5. The method of baling cotton with
metallic bands, and taking up the slack of the band by bending
the same at any desired point into the form of a loop, and pissing such loop sidewise through an open slit into the slot
intended to receive it and over the bar of the clasp intended to
hold it."

Oct. 1882.]

COToN-TIE CO. v. SIMMONS.

The specification of the McComb patent states that the na
ture of his invention "consists in the use of a peculiarly
shaped buckle as a fastening or tie for the ends of the iron
hoops." It says that the "buckle is a piece of wrought-iron
or other metallic substance, about the eighth of an inch thick,
an inch and three-quarters wide, and two inches long (the size
being modified to suit the width of the hoop used), with an
oblong hole or aperture cut or punched through the centre ;"
that the five "sides of the plate of the buckle are equal and
parallel; and that the two largest of the five sides of the oblong
hole are of equal length, and are equal in length to the width
of the hoop. The drawings show the two sides forming the
arrow part as of equal length. The slit or slot is cut through
one of the sides of the plate opposite one of the two longest
sides of the central hole, so that one of the loops of the hoop
stretches across and covers the slit. The claim of the patent is
this: "Forming a link or tie with an oblong aperture, one end
of which is arrow-shaped, or rather presents two sides of an
equilateral triangle, the design of this arrow-shaped end being
not only to force the loop or bend of the hoop over the slot,
which it does with unerring precision when the bale expands
after being released from the press, but, also, to secure an equal
bearing upon the separated parts of the slotted side of the tie."
A buckle without a band will not confine a bale of cotton.
Although the defendants use a second time buckles originally
made by those owning the patents and put by them on the
market, they do not use a second time the original bands
in the condition in which those bands were originally put
forth with such buckles. They use bands made by piecing
together severed pieces of the old bands. The band in a condition fit for use with the buckle is an element in the third
claim of the Brodie reissue. That claim is for a combination
of the open slot arranged to allow of the sidewise introduction
of the band, the link or buckle with the single rectangular
opening arranged so as to hold both ends of the band, and the
band. The old buckle which the defendants sell has the slot
of Cook, and the slot and rectangular opening of Brodie, and
the slot and arrow-shaped opening of McComb. Whatever
right the defendants could acquire to the use of the old buckle,

COON-TIE Co. V.

SIMMONS.

[Sup. Ct.

they acquired no right to combine it with a substantially new
band, to make a cotton-bale tie. They so combined it when
they combined it with a band made of the pieces of the old
band in the way described. What the defendants did in piecing together the pieces of the old band was not a repair of the
band or the tie, in any proper sense. The band was voluntarily severed by the consumer at the cotton-mill because the
tie had performed its function of confining the bale of cotton
in its transit from the plantation or the press to the mill. Its
capacity for use as a tie was voluntarily destroyed. As it left
the bale it could not be used again as a tie. As a tie the
defendants reconstructed it, although they used the old buckle
without repairing that. The case is not like putting new cutters into a planing-machine in place of those worn out by use,
as in Wilson v. Simpson, 9 How. 109. The principle of that
case was, that temporary parts wearing out in a machine might
be replaced to preserve the machine, in accordance with the
intention of the vendor, without amounting to a reconstruction
of the machine.
The defendants contend that they do not combine the band
with the buckle, and do not infringe the third claim of the
Cook patent, or the third, fourth, and fifth claims of the Brodie
reissue, or the claim of the McComb patent, because they do
not bale cotton with the tie. But they participate in combining the open slot, the buckle, and the band, the whole being so
arranged that the ends of the band can be turned under the
buckle and held in position by the expansion of the bale, and
that the slack of the band can be taken up by bending the
band into the form of a loop, and passing the loop sidewise
through the open slit into the hole and over the holding-bar
of the plate. They sell the tie having the capacity of use in
the manner described, and intended to be so used. Only the
bale of cotton and the press are needed to produce the result
set forth in the specifications of the patents, and without the
bale of cotton and the press the tie would not be made or sold.
The slot through the end bar of the buckle in the Cook patent
is of no practical use apart from the band and the bale of cotton, and the same thing is true of the link of the McComb
patent with its arrow-shaped aperture; and although a person

Oct. 1882.]

BROWN V. COLORADO.

who merely makes and sells the buckle or link in each case
may be liable for infringing those patents, he is so liable only
as he is regarded as doing what he does with the purpose of
having the buckle or link combined with a band and used to
bale cotton. Because the defendants prepare and sell the
arrow tie, composed of the buckle or link and the band, intending to have it used to bale cotton and to produce the results
set forth in the Cook and the McComb patents, they infringe
those patents. Saxe v. Hammond, I Holmes, 456; Bowker v.
Dows, 3 Banning & Arden, 518. We do not decide that they
are liable as infringers of either of the three patents merely
because they have sold the buckle considered apart from the
band or from the entire structure as a tie.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the defendants infringed
the third claim of the Cook patent, the third, fourth, and
fifth claims of the Brodie reissue, and the claim of the
McComb patent.
Decree reversed, with costs, with directions to enter a decree
for the plaintiffs, in respect to those claims, for an account
of profits and damages, as prayed in the bill, and to take
suchfurther proceedings in the suit as may be in conformity
with the opinion of this court.

BROWN v. COLORADO.
The State of Colorado brought ejectment in one of her courts, and offered in
evidence the defendant's deed to the Territory of Colorado for the demanded
premises. He objected to its introduction, upon the ground that at its date
"the Territory had no right to take a conveyance of real estate without the
consent of the government of the United States." The objection was overruled. Held, that the judgment rendered for the State is not subject to review
here, it not appearing that any Federal question was either raised and passed
upon or necessarily involved.
MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the State of Colorado.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

