RICHARDSON V. HARDWICK.

[Sup. Ct.

RI1COARDSON v. HARDWICK.

A., the owner of lands, covenanted that by making certain payments within a
period named B. might become equally interested in them. B. did not agree
to ,purchase, and he never made any payment. Held, that an estate in the
lands was not by the contract vested in B., and that his failure to make payment within the time limited therefor worked a forfeiture of his privilege
under the contract.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. D. C. Holbrook and Mr.B'. -H. Wells for the appellant.
.Mr. Alfred Bussell and Mr. Henry ff. Campbell for the
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a bill in equity filed by Richardson to compel the
specific performance of a contract relating to lands between
him and Hardwick.
The contract describes the lands, and then proceeds: "The above-described lands have been purchased by me under
an arrangement with Arthur R. Richardson, as follows: It is under-

stood that said Richardson may become equally interested in the
above lands by paying to' me one-half the purchase price of the
lands, together with an equal share of all expenditures made by me
for taxes or any other purpose, and also ten per cent interest on all
capital furnished by me in connection with his half interest. It is
further understood that the purchase price of the lands bought of'
T. H. Eaton is to be reckoned at $10 per acre, and the terms of the
above agreement are limited to two years from this date. Said
Richardson is to pay one-half his share in one year and the balance
intwo years.
"ALPENA, Oct. 1st, 1868.
"Arthur R. Richardson may cut timber on the within-described
lands on the following terms: He is to pay ($1.50) one dollar and a
half per thousand feet, board measure, for all timber cut by him,
and he further agrees to cut not less than twelve (12) thousand feet
from each and every acre on which he may cut any, or in the event
of his not doing so, he agrees to pay for twelve thousand feet, the

Oct. 1882.]

RICHARDSON v. HARDWICK.

same as though that amount bad been cut by him. The logs are to
be holden for the stumpage and to be his when paid for, it being
understood that payment is to be made for the same when they
come into market.
"B. C. H&DnwicK.
"ART.UR R. RIcilARDSOx.
"ALPENA, Oct. 1st, '68."
It is not disputed that before the date of this contract Hardwick purchased the lands described therein, paid for them in
full out of his own means, and received a deed therefor in his
own name. Prior to Oct. 1, 1870, the date at which the two
years mentioned in the contract expired, Richardson had, on
the terms mentioned in the contract, cut timber on the lands,
and paid to Hardwick for "stumpage" $4,050, and, unless this
is to be considered a payment on the contract, he, up to the
date mentioned, made no payment whatever thereon. On or
just before Oct. 1, 1870, by a verbal contract between the parties, the time for the payment by Richardson of the half of
the price of the lands was extended to Oct. 1, 1871. Neither
up to that time nor subsequently did he make or tender pay-ment on the land. In the mean time Hardwick was selling
timber off them, and in the year 1872 sold all the lands except
one hundred and sixty acres. The contention of Richardson
now is, that, after crediting upon the contract one-half the
amount received by Hardwick for timber and lands sold, the
half of the purchase-money and other expenses, which he was
to pay in case he became equally interested in the lands, has
been satisfied, and that he is entitled to an equal share of the
proceeds of the timber and lands, and to a conveyance of an
undivided half of the lands remaining unsold. But it was not
until May or June, 1874, that he ever intimated to Hardwick
that he claimed an interest in the lands, and his claim was then
peremptorily denied by Hardwick, and it was not until he filed
the bill in this case, Dec. 10, 1875, that he ever made any definite demand on Hardwick for an account of the proceeds of the
sales of timber and lands, or a conveyance of the undivided
half of the lands remaining unsold.
Upon final hearing, upon the pleadings and evidence, the
Circuit Court dismissed the bill, and Richardson appealed.

RICHARDSON

v.

HARDWICK.

[Sup. Ct.

The rights of the parties must be governed by their contract
in writing entered into on Oct. 1, 1868. All their previous
negotiations resulted in that contract, and it was never subsequently changed, except by the verbal agreement to extend for
one year the time allowed by it to Richardson to refund to
Hardwick one-half the purchase-money, expenditures, and taxes
paid by him.
We cannot give any weight to the assertion of Richardson
that it was one of the unexpressed terms of the contract that
one-half of the proceeds of timber sold from the lands should
be indorsed upon the contract as payments made by him there.
on. It is a matter in dispute between the parties whether any
such understanding existed.
If it were competent to prove such an understanding by parol,
the burden of proof would be on Richardson to establish it.
He, in his testimony, affirms the existence of this understanding, and Hardwick, in his testimony, denies it. We
think that the other testimony in the case leaves the preponderance of evidence on this point with the defendant.
But evidence to establish this understanding is clearly inadmissible. In respect to this matter the contract is free from
ambiguity. Its plain meaning is that Richardson was to make
payment directly to Hardwick, in money of one-half the amount
paid by the latter on the lands. It is, therefore, not competent
to show by parol that payment was to be made in some other
way than that specified in the written instrument. Sprigg v.
Bank of Mount Pleasant, 14 Pet. 201; Spec1ht v. Howard, 16
Wall. 564; Forsythe v. Kimball, 91 U. S. 291; Brown v. Spofford, 95 id. 474.
Looking, therefore, at the contract as reduced to writing by
the parties, we are clear that Richardson is not entitled to the
relief prayed for by his bill.
The written contract gives him the privilege, or, as counsel
call it, an "option," to become equally interested in the lahds
by paying one-half the purchase-money, &c., within two years
after its date. The contract, of itself, did not vest him with
any interest or estate in the lands. It merely pointed out the
mode in which he might acquire an interest, namely, by paying
a certain sum of money within a certain time. He did not pay

Oct. 1882.]

BADGER V. RANLETT.

the money within the time limited by the contract, and has
never paid it or any part of it; and eighteen months before the
commencement of this suit Hardwick gave him notice that his
option to purchase had been lost, and told him that he had no
interest in the lands.
It is clear from the terms of the contract that Richardson
was not bound by it. He did not agree to purchase any share
in the lands or to pay Hardwick any money. The contract
gave Hardwick no cause of action against Richardson. The
latter was not bound to become interested in the lands, or to
pay any money thereon, unless he chose to do so.
In suits upon unilateral contracts, it is only where the defendant has had the benefit of the consideration for which he bargained that he can be held bound. Jones v. Bobinson, 17 L. J.
Exch. 36; .lills v. Blaekcall, 11 Q. B. 358; .lorton v. Burn,
7 Ad. & E. 19; Zennaway v. Treleavan, 5 Mee. & W. 498.
In this case Richardson having failed to pay the money or any
part of it within the time limited, the privilege accorded him by
the contract was at an end, and all the rights under it ceased.
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill was,
therefore, right, and must be
Affirmed.

BADGER v. RANLETT.
1. Cotton-ties, each consisting of an iron strip and an iron buckle, were, in 1880,
imported in bundles, each bundle consisting of thirty strips and thirty
buckles, each strip eleven feet long, the whole blackened. Held, that they
are subject to a duty of thirty-five per cent ad valorem, as "manufactures
of iron, not otherwise provided for," under schedule E of sect. 2504 of the
Revised Statutes, and not to a duty of one cent and one-half per pound,
under said schedule, as "band, hoop, and scroll iron."
2. The question as to whether the ties are subject to some other rate of duty
than one of those two not having been raised below, cannot be raised by the
plaintiff in error in this court.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana.
The firm of D. L. Ranlett & Co. imported into the port
of New Orleans, from Liverpool, England, in 1880, certain

