FINK v. O'NEIL.

[Sup. ot.

FINK v. O'NEIL.
The homestead of a defendant is not subject to seizure and sale by virtue of an
execution sued out on a judgment recovered by the United States in a civil
action, if, had a private party been the plaintiff, it would be exempt therefrom,
by the law of the State where it is situate.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
This is a bill in equity filed by O'Neil praying for a perpetual injunction to restrain Fink, the then marshal of the
United States for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, from further proceeding under a ft. fa., issued upon a judgment rendered in favor of the United States in the District Court for
that district, against the complainant and others, and which
had been levied on real estate alleged to be his homestead, and
exempt under the laws of that State from sale on execution.
The premises levied on are forty acres, with a dwelling-house
and appurtenances thereon, which he occupied as a residence
for himself and family, consisting of his wife and seven children, the same being used for agricultural purposes, not included in any town, city, or village plot, and alleged to be of
the value of $6,000 and upwards; and it is averred that the
cause of action upon which the judgment was rendered was not
for any debt or liability contracted prior to Jan. 1, 1849.
To this bill there was filed a general demurrer, for want of
equity, which being overruled, and Fink declining to answer or
plead, a decree was rendered granting the relief prayed for,
from which he prosecutes this appeal.
The provision of the statute of Wisconsin on the subject of
homestead exemptions, the benefit of which was secured to the
appellee by the decree, is as follows -"A homestead to be selected by the owner thereof, consisting,
when not included in any village or city, of any quantity of land,
not exceeding forty acres, used for agricultural purposes, and when
included in any city or village, of a quantity of land not exceeding
one-fourth of an acre, and the dwelling-house thereon and its appurtenances, owned and occupied by any resident of this State, shall
be exempt fi-om seizure or sale on execution, from the lien of every

Oct. 1882.]

FINK v. O'NEIL.

judgment, and from liability in any form for the debts of such
owner, except laborers', mechanics', and purchase-money liens, and
mortgages lawfully executed, and taxes lawfully assessed, and except as otherwise specially provided in these statutes," &c. Rev.
Stat. Wisconsin of 1878, 783, ch. 130, sect. 2983.
ir. Assistant Attorney- General Jiiaury for the appellant.
If the law of Wisconsin exempting forty acres of land from
execution is operative as against the United States, it must be
on one of two grounds: First, That the law providing for executions on judgments
in the Federal courts, now embodied in sect. 916, Rev. Stat.,
has made it so ; or,
Second, That Wisconsin has the power to enact a law which,
proyrlo vigore, exempts the property of a debtor from execution
sued out by the United States.
The law regulating final process on the common-law side of
the Federal courts cannot apply to the extent of making the
homestead exemption law of a State operative against the
United States, whatever may be its effect as to individuals,
because: 1. It is an invariable rule that statutes which derogate from the powers and prerogatives of the government, or
tend to diminish or restrain any of its rights and interests, do
not apply to it unless it is expressly named. United States v.
Herron, 20 Wall. 251; Savings Bank v. United States, 19 id.
228, 239, and cases cited; Dwarris, p. 523; Sedgw. Stat. and
Const. L., pp. 105, 395, ed. 1857. 2. Sect. 916, Rev. Stat.,
while it adopts the State laws providing execution, does not
adopt any restrictive legislation which is collateral to them.
Boyle v. Zacharie, 6 Pet. 659; Wayman v. Southard,10 Wheat.
1. 3. The provision of sect. 986, that executions sued out
by the United States in any court thereof, in one State, may
run and be executed in any State or Territory, is repugnant to
the idea that such process was intended to be affected by State
exemptions of any kind under sect. 916.
No law of Wisconsin exempting property from execution can
be operative proprio vigore against the United States.
The independence and sovereignty of the national government cannot coexist with a power in the several States to
VOL. xv1.
18

FINK v. O'NEIL.

[Sup. 0t.

defeat or embarrass the exercise of any of its delegated powers.
The States have no power, by taxation or otherwise, to retard,
impede, burden, or in any manner control the operation of the
constitutional laws enacted by Congress to carry into execution
the powers vested in the general government. 1McCulloch v.
"aryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Weston v. City Council of Charleston,
2 Pet. 449; Crandall v. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35; Dobbins v. Conmissioners of Brie County, 16 Pet. 435; Te Collector v. Day,
11 Wall. 118; United States v. Bailroad Company, 17 id.
322; Wayman v. Soutltard, supra; Bank of United States v.
Hfalstead, 10 Wheat. 51; Beers v. Haughton, 9 Pet. 329.
The States are not expressly prohibited from interfering
with the operations of the general government. The inhibition
comes by necessary implication, their possession of such a
power of obstruction and interference being in irreconcilable
antagonism to the sovereign authority which it was the purpose
of the Constitution to ordain and establish.
If, then, a State cannot subject to taxation a bank created
by the United States, and made a part of its fiscal machinery,
or a debenture of the United States, or the salary of a Federal
officer, or a citizen passing through its territory, because such
an exercise of her taxing power would tend to embarrass the
operations of the general government, it would seem to follow
as a necessary consequence that the law of Wisconsin could not
exempt from execution the land levied on under the execution
in question, without retarding, impeding, and burdening the
appropriate and rightful means for the enforcement and collection of a debt due to the United States.
If a State cannot tax the final process of the Federal courts,
by a parity of reasoning it cannot withdraw property from the
operation of such process.
The judicial power has heretofore been considered ample for
all the purposes of the Constitution. Hartinv. Hunter,1 Wheat.
804; Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 258. But it must hereafter
be regarded as a delusion, if the several States can determine
whether any, and, if any, how much, of a defendant's property
may be seized under an execution sued out of a Federal court
at the instance of the United States.
There was no opposing counsel.

Oct. 1882.]

FINK v. O'NEIL.

MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The statutory provision in relation to homesteads was enacted by Wisconsin in express compliance with a constitutional
injunction, wherein it is declared, in the seventeenth section of
the Bill of Rights, that "the privilege of the debtor to enjoy
the necessary comforts of life shall be recognized by wholesome
laws." Phelps v. Rooney, 9 Wis. 70, 83.
It has been the constant policy of the State in this legislation, as construed by many decisions of its Supreme Court, to
favor by liberal interpretations the exemptions in favor of the
debtor. "For it cannot be denied," says that court, in Hanson
v. Edgar, 34 id. 653, 657, " that in all the enactments found
in our statute books in regard to homestead exemption, the
most sedulous care is manifest to secure the homestead to the
debtor and to his wife and family against all debts not expressly charged upon it."
We have found no case in which the question has been
raised, or where there has been any expression of judicial
opinion, whether the exemption would prevail or not, as to
judgments in favor of the State; but we do not doubt, from the
language of the constitutional and statutory provisions, and the
rules of construction followed in other cases, that it would be
held by its courts, if the question should be directly made, that
the State, except as to taxes, which are expressly excepted,
would be bound by the exemption.
In Doe, ex dern. Gladney, v. Deavors, 11 Ga. 79, it was decided by the Supreme Court of Georgia, in 1852, that the State
was bound by acts of the legislature exempting certain articles
of personal property from levy and sale for debts, for the benefit of the wife and children of the debtor, so that they could
not be seized and sold under execution for the payment of
taxes. The court said, p. 89: "These laws are founded in a
humane regard to the women and children of families. The
preamble to the act of 1822 announces the grounds on which
the legislature acted. ' Whereas' (is its language) ' it does
not comport with justice and expediency to deprive innocent
and helpless women and children of the means of subsistence,
be it therefore enacted,' &c. . . .In our judgment, the State

FINK v. O'NEIL.

[Sup. Ot.

falls within the operation of a public law, passed for the benefit
of the poor, and the State is within the policy of our own legislation upon this subject-matter."
Mr. Thompson, in his Treatise on Homesteads and Exemptions, sect. 386, says: "In many of the States this question is determined by the express provisions of statutes, which
declare, in various terms, that nothing shall be exempt from
execution where the debt, other than public taxes, is due the
State; or where the debt is for public taxes legally assessed
upon the homestead or other property; or where the demand
is for a public wrong committed, punished by fine. But
where the question has arisen, in the silence of statutes, the
highest courts of the States, with two exception's, have held
otherwise."
Commonwealth v. Cook, 8 Bush (Ky.), 220, which is one of
the exceptions referred to, is shown, however, to have been
materially qualified by the decision in Commonwealth v. Lay,
12 id. 283. Brooks v. The State, 54 Ga. 36, turned on the
point that the exemption claimed operated retrospectively, and
was disallowed on the authority of Gunn v. Barry, 15 Wall.
610. So that in point of fact the decisions of State courts upon
the point are practically unanimous.
It is said, however, that the laws of the State creating these
exemptions are not laws for the United States; and this is certainly true, unless they have been made such by Congress
itself. This has not been an open question in this court since
the decision in Ifayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, and Bank
of the United States v. Halstead, id. 51. Mr. Justice Thompson, delivering the opinion of the court in the latter case,
said: "An officer of the United States cannot, in the discharge of his duty, be governed and controlled by State laws,
any further than such laws have been adopted and sanctioned
by the legislative authority of the United States. And he does
not, in such case, act under the authority of the State law, but
under that of the United States, which adopts such law. An
execution is the fruit and end of the suit, and is very aptly
called the life of the law. The suit does not terminate with
the judgment; and all proceedings on the execution are proceedings in the suit," &c. In Wayman v, Southard, Mr. Chief

Oct. 1882.]

OINK V. O'NEIL.

Justice Marshall had said that the proposition was "one of
those political axioms, an attempt to demonstrate which would
be a waste of argument not to be excused."
The question, therefore, is, whether the United States, by
an appropriate legislative act, has adopted the laws of Wisconsin exempting homesteads from execution, and, if at all,
whether they apply in cases of executions upon judgments in
favor of the United States.
Sect. 916, Rev. Stat., is as follows: " The party recovering a
judgment in any common-law cause in any Circuit or District
Court, shall be entitled to similar remedies upon the same, by
execution or otherwise, to reach the property of the judgment
debtor, as are now provided in like causes by the laws of the
State in which such court is held, or by any such laws hereafter
enacted which may be adopted by general rules of such Circuit
or District Courts; and such courts may, from time to time,
by general rules, adopt such State laws as may hereafter be in
force in such State in relation to remedies upon judgments as
aforesaid, by execution or otherwise."
This provision is part of the sixth section of the act of June
1, 1872, c. 255, entitled "An Act to further the administration
of justice," and has in its present form been in force since that
day. It is the result of a policy that originated with the organization of our judicial system. The fourteenth section of the act
of Sept. 24, 1789, c. 20, commonly known as the Judiciary Act,
provided that the courts of the United States should have
"power to issue writs of scire facias, h~abeas corpus, and all
other writs not specially provided for by statute, which maybe
necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and
agreeable to the principles and usages of law; " and this was
held to embrace executions upon judgments.
TFad/man v.
Southard, 10 Wheat. 1. The act of Sept. 29, 1789, c. 21,
entitled "An Act to regulate processes in the courts of the
United States," enacts "that until further provision shall be
made, and except where by this act or other statutes of the
United States is otherwise provided, the forms of writs and executions, except their style and modes of lprocess and rates of
fees, except fees to judges, in the Circuit and District Courts, in
suits at common law, shall be the same in each State respec-

PINK V. O'NEIL.

[Sup. Ot.

tively as are now used or allowed in the Supreme Courts of the
same."
This act was temporary, and expired by its own limitation
at the end of the next session of Congress. The act of May
8, 1792, c. 84, provided that the forms of writs, executions,
and other process, and the forms and modes of proceeding in
suits at common law, should continue to be the same as authorized by the act of 1789,," subject, however, to such alterations
arid additions as the said courts respectively shall in their discretion deem expedient, or to such regulations as the Supreme
Court shall think proper, from time to time, by rule to -prescribe to any Circuit or District Court concerning the same."
This legislation came under review in this court in Wayrman
v. Southard and Bank of the United States v. Hfalstead, in the
latter of which it is said, 10 Wheat. 60: "The general policy
of all the laws on this subject is very apparent. It was intended to adopt and conform to the State process and proceedings as the general rule, but under such guards and checks as
might be necessary to insure the due exercise of the powers of
the courts of the United States. They have authority, therefore, from time to time, to alter the process in such manner as
they shall deem expedient, and likewise to make additions
thereto, which necessarily implies a power to enlarge the effect
and operation of the process."
This discretionary power in the courts of the United States
was restricted by the act of May 19, 1828, c. 68, so that thereafter writs of execution and other final process issued on judgments rendered in any of the courts of the United States, and
the proceedings thereupon, should be the same, except their
style, in each State respectively, as were then used in the
courts of such State; provided, however, that it should be in
the power of the courts, if they saw fit in their discretion, by
rule of court, so far to alter final process in said courts as to
conform the same to any change which might be adopted by
the legislatures of the respective States for the State courts.
It will be seen from this provision that it was thereafter prohibited to the courts of the United States either to adopt or
recognize any form of execution, or give any effect to it, except
such as was, at the time of the passage of the act, or had sub-

Oct. 1882.]

PINK

v. O'NEIL.

sequently become at the time of their adoption, a writ authorized by the laws of the State. The same provision has ever
since been continued in force, and is now embodied in sect.
916 of the Revised Statutes, already quoted.
In Beers v. iaughton, 9 Pet. 329, which was governed by the
act of 1828, it was held that " the words, ' the proceedings on
the writs of execution and other final process,' must, from their
very import, be construed to include all the laws which regulate the rights, duties, and conduct of officers in the service of
such process, according to its exigency, upon the person or
property of the execution debtor, and also all the exemptions
from arrest or imprisonment under such process created by
those laws."
It is further to be observed that no distinction is made, in
any of these statutes on the subject, between executions on
judgments in favor of private parties and on those in favor of
the United States. And as there is no provision as to the
effect of executions at all, except as contained in this legislation, it follows necessarily that the exemptions from levy and
sale, under executions of one class, apply equally to all, including those on judgments recovered by the United States. The
general power to issue process, originally conferred by sect.
14 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, which now appears as sect.
716, Rev. Stat., as being in pari materia with that contained
in sect. 916, must be construed as subject to the same limitations, especially as the general power is confined in express.
terms to writs not specifically provided for by statute, and
hence, ex vi termini, embraces none included in the subsequent
section. Besides, as was said by Mr. Chief Justice Marshall,
in Walmian v. Southard, "this section provides singly for issuing the writ, and prescribes no rule for the conduct of the
officer while obeying its mandate."
As the statute of Wisconsin, exempting homesteads from
levy and sale upon executions, was in force at the time the act
of Congress of June 1, 1872, c. 255, took effect, and has remained so continuously from that time, it also follows that the
exemption has thereby become a law of the United States
within that State, and applies to executions issued upon judgments in civil causes recovered in their courts in their own

FINK v. O'NEIL.

[Sup. Ct.

name and behalf, equally with those upon judgments rendered
in favor of private parties. Laws of Wisconsin for 1848, pp.
40, 41; Rev. Stat. Wisconsin for 1871, ยง 23, p. 1548.
This conclusion cannot be avoided by the consideration
which has been urged upon us, that the process acts do not
limit the sovereign rights of the United States, upon the principle that the sovereign is not bound by such laws, unless he is
expressly named. These laws are the expression of the sovereign will on the subject, and are conclusive upon the judicial
and executive officers to whom they are addressed; and as
they forbid the issue of an execution in every case, except
subject to the limitations which ihey mention, and as there is
no authority to issue an execution in any case whatever, except
as conferred by them, the sovereign right invoked is left without the means of vindication. The United States cannot enforce the collection of a debt from an unwilling debtor, except
by judicial process. They must bring a suit and obtain a
judgment. To reap the fruit of that judgment they must
cause an execution to issue. The courts have no inherent
authority to take any one of these steps, except as it may have
been conferred by the legislative department; for they can
exercise no jurisdiction, except as the law confers and limits it.
And if the laws in question do not permit an execution' to
issue upon a judgment in favor of the United States, except
subject to the exemptions which apply to citizens, there are no
others which confer authority to issue any execution at all.
For, as was said, by Mr. Justice Daniel, in Cary v. Curtis,
3 How. 236, 245, "the courts of the United States are all
limited in their nature and constitution, and have not the
powers inherent in courts existing by prescription or by the
common law."
This objection is also met expressly by the decision of this
court in United States v. Knig&lt, 14 Pet. 301. It was there
decided that the act of May 19, 1828, c. 68, gives the debtors
imprisoned under executions from the courts of the United
States, at the suit of the United States, the privilege of jail
limits in the several States, as they were fixed by the laws
of the several States at the date of that act. It was there
objected, as here, that the provision of the statute did not

Oct. 1882.]

FIK v. O'NEIL.

embrace executions issued on judgments rendered in favor of
the United States, upon the ground that the United States are
never to be considered as embraced in any statute, unless expressly named. Mr. Justice Barbour delivered the opinion of the
court, and said: "The words of this section being ' that writs
of execution and other final process issued on judgments and
decrees rendered in any of the courts of the United States,' it
is obvious that the language is sufficiently comprehensive to
embrace them, unless they are to be excluded by a construction
founded upon the principle just stated." Referring to the maxim
nudlum temples occurrit regi, he says it rests on the ground that
no laches shall be imputed to the sovereign ; but he adds: "Not
upon any notion of prerogative; for even in England, where
the doctrine is stated under the head of prerogative, this, in
effect, means nothing more than that this exception is made
from the statute for the public good; and the King represents
the nation. The real ground is a great principle of public
policy, which belongs alike to all governments, that the publie interest should not be prejudiced by the negligence of public
officers to whose care they are confided. Without undertaking
to lay down any general rule as applicable to cases of this
kind, we feel satisfied that when, as in this case, a statute,
which proposes only to regulate the mode of proceeding in
suits, does not divest the public of any right, does not violate
any principle of public policy; but, on the contrary, makes
provisions, in accordance with the policy which the government
has indicated by many acts of previous legislation, to conform
to State laws in giving to persons imprisoned under their execution the privilege of jail limits; we shall best carry into
effect the legislative intent by construing the executions at
the suit of the United States to be embraced within the act
of 1828."
The same line of reasoning was adopted by this court in
Green v. United States, 9 Wall. 655. It was there held that
the act of July 2, 1864, c. 210, which enacts that in courts of
the United States there shall be no exclusion of any witness
in civil actions, "because he is a party to or interested in the
issue tried;" and the amendatory act of March 3, 1865, c. 113,
making certain exceptions to the rule, apply to civil actions

PINK V. O'NEIL.[SpC.

[Sup. Ot.

in which the United States are a party as well as to those between private persons. It was argued by the Attorney-General
that the statutes were meant to give both parties an equal
standing in court in respect to evidence; that the United
States not being able to testify, a party opposed to them should
not be allowed to do so either; and that, independently of this,
it was a rule of construction that "the King is not bound by
any act of Parliament, unless he be named therein by special
and particular words." Mr. Justice Bradley, who delivered
the opinion of the court, replying to this argument, said: "It
is urged that the government is not bound by a law unless
expressly named. We do not see why this rule of construction
should apply to acts of legislation which lay down general
rules of procedure -in civil actions. The very fact that it is
confined to civil actions would seem to show that Congress
intended it to apply to actions in which the government is
a party as well as those between private persons. For the
United States is a necessary party in all criminal actions, which
are excluded ex vi termini; and if it had been the intent to
exclude all other actions in which the government is a party,
it would have been more natural and more accurate to have
expressly confined the law to actions in which the government
is not a party, instead of confining it to civil actions. It would
then have corresponded precisely with such intent. Expressed
as it is, the intent seems to embrace, instead of excluding, civil
actions in which the government is a party. Nothing adverse
to this view can be gathered from the exceptions made in the
amendment passed in 1865." See also United States v. Thompson, 93 U. S.586; United States v. Railroad Company, 105 id.
263.
And although it has been decided by the highest j~idicial
v. The Queen, 6 B. & S.257;
tribunals in England -Feather
Dixon v. London Small Arms Co., 1 App. Cas. 632 - that the
sovereign is entitled to the use of a patented process or invention without compensation to the patentee, because the privilege granted by the letters-patent is granted against the
subjects only, and not against the crown, a contrary doctrine
was held by this court in James v. Campbell, 104 U. S.356, to
prevail in this country. Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the

Oct. 1882.]

OINK v. O'NEIL.

opinion of the court in that case, said: "The United States
has no such prerogative as that which is claimed by the sovereigns of England by which it can reserve to itself, either expressly or by implication, a superior dominion and use, in that
which it grants by letters-patent to those who entitle themselves
to such grants. The government of the United States, as well
as the citizen, is subject to the Constitution; and when it
grants a patent, the grantee is entitled to it as a matter of
right, and does not receive it, as was originally supposed to be
the case in England, as a matter of grace and favor."
It is true that in United States v. Hferron, 20 Wall. 251, it
was decided that a debt due to the United States is not barred
by the debtor's discharge with certificate under the Bankrupt
Act of 1867; but in that case Mr. Justice Clifford took pains,
by a careful collation of numerous provisions of the statute, to
show that the words " creditor or creditors," as contained in
the act, did not include the United States, adopting and extending the definition by Mr. Justice Blackburn, in Woods v.
De Hlattos, 3 Hurl. & Colt. 987, 995, because used in the sense
of persons having a claim which can be proved under the
bankruptcy, and not required by the act to be paid in full in
preference of all others. But the Bankrupt Act furnished clear
evidence of the policy of Congress in reference to exemptions
of property from sale for the payment of debts, by excepting
from its operation personal property, necessary for the use of
the family, to the amount of $500, and such other property as
was exempt from execution by the laws of the United States
and of the State of the debtor's domicile. Rev. Stat., sect.
5045. And Congress, since the passage of the act of May 20,
1862, c. 75, providing for the acquisition of homesteads for
actual settlers upon the public lands, has made their exemption
from sale on execution a permanent part of the national policy,
by declaring that lands so acquired shall not "in any event
become liable to the satisfaction of any debt contracted prior
to the issuing of the patent therefor." Rev. Stat., sect. 2296;
Seymour v. Sanders, 3 Dill. 437; Russell v. Lowth, 21
Minn. 167.
If a contrary construction to the process acts should be
given, on the ground that they do not include the United

PINK

V. ONEIL.

[Sup. at.

States, which, although a litigant, continues nevertheless to
exercise the prerogatives of a sovereign, it would follow that
they might resort to any writ known to the common law, however antiquated or obsolete, and in defiance of the progress of
enlightened legislation on that subject, revive all the hardships
of imprisonment for debt, even without the liberty of local
statutory jail limits. But that this is not within the meaning
of these acts of Congress, we have positive and plenary proof
in sect. 1042 of the Revised Statutes. This was sect. 14 of the
act of June 1, 1872, c. 255. It provides that "when a poor convict sentenced by any court of the United States to be imprisoned and pay a fine, or fine and cost, or to pay a fine, or fine
and cost, has been confined in prison thirty days solely for the
non-payment of such fine, or fine and cost, such convict may
make application in writing to any commissioner of the United
States court in the district where he is imprisoned, setting forth
his inability to pay such fine, or fine and cost, and after notice
to the district attorney of the United States, who may appear,
offer evidence, and be heard, the commissioner shall proceed to
hear and determine the matter; and if on examination it shall
appear to him that such convict is unable to pay such fine, or
fine and cost, and that he has not any property exceeding
twenty dollars in value, except such as is by law exempt from
being taken on execution for debt, the commissioner shall
administer to him" an oath, the form of which is set out, in
which he swears that he has not any property, real or personal, to the amount of twenty dollars, except such as is by
law exempt from being taken on civil precept for debt by
the laws of the State where the oath is administered, and
that he has no property in any way conveyed or concealed, or
in any way disposed of, for his future use or benefit. "And
thereupon," the statute proceeds, "such convict shall be discharged," &c. This section is repeated as sect. 5296, Rev.
Stat., under the title, Remission of fines, penalties, and forfeitures.
Nothing can be more clear than this, as a recognition by
Congress that in case of executions upon judgments in civil
actions the United States are subject to the same exemptions
as apply to private persons by the law of the State in which

Oct. 1882.]

FINK v. O'NEIL.

the property levied on is found ; and that, by this provision
in favor of poor convicts, it was intended, even in cases of
sentences for fines for criminal offences against the laws of the
United States, that the execution against property for its
collection should be subjected to the same exemptions as in
civil cases.
In Magdalen College Case, 11 Rep. 66 b, Lord Coke, referring
to Lord Berkley's Case, Plowd. Com. 233, 246, declares that it
was there held that the King was bound by the statute De
Donis, 13 Edw. I. c. 1, because, for other reasons, "it was an
act of preservation of the possession of noblemen, gentlemen,
and others," and "the said act," be continues, "shall not bind
the King only, where he took an estate in his natural capacity,
as to him and the heirs male of his body, but also when he
claims an inheritance as King by his prerogative." By parity
of reasoning based on the declared public policy of States,
wbere the people are the sovereign, laws which are acts of
preservation of the home of the family exclude the supposition
of any adverse public interest, because none can be thought
hostile to that, and the case is brought within the humane exception that identifies the public good with the private right,
and declares "that general statutes which provide necessary
and profitable remedy for the maintenance of religion, the
advancement of good learning, and for the relief of the poor,
shall be extended generally according to their words;" for
civilization has no promise that is not nourished in the bosom
of the secure and well-ordered household.
Decree affirmed.

