UNITED STATES v. ABATOIR PLACE.

[Sup. Ct.

was abundant time after the breaking of the fastenings of the
' Hart,' and after the ' Green' began to swing, and after the
hail of her master, to have stopped the propeller before the collision."
This, as it seems to us, settles the case, and amply justifies
the conclusion of law made by the court below, that "the
' Nevada' was in fault for not keeping a sufficient lookout aft
and on the side next the slip, and in not seeing the ' Kate
Green' when she came in, or as she swung over, and in not
stopping the propeller in time to avoid the collision." In view
of the principles to which we have adverted, and which ought
to control this case, no other conclusion could have been
reached.
We see no error in the decree of the Circuit Court, and it is
therefore, with interest and costs,
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. ABATOIR PLACE.
Where an information against a distillery for an alleged violation of the revenue laws was filed, and the District Court, after rendering judgment in favor
of the claimant, denied the motion of the United States that a certificate of
reasonable cause of seizure be entered of record,-Held,that the action on
the motion cannot be reviewed here or in the Circuit Court.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the.
Southern District of New York.
This was an information filed in the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York against a
distillery, claiming that it was forfeited to the United States
for violation of the revenue laws.
Frederick Frerichs appeared as the claimant, and denied
the forfeiture. Upon the trial the District Court, being of
opinion that there was no evidence of any violation of the
revenue laws, for which the seizure had been made, directed a
verdict for him, and judgment was rendered thereon in his
favor.
Thereupon the United States moved the court to enter of

Oct.

1882.]

UNITED STATES V. ABATOIR PLACE.

record a certificate that there was a reasonable cause of seizure.
The motion was denied. The case was then carried, by writ
of error, to the Circuit Court, which adjudged that there was
no error in the record. To reverse this latter judgment this
writ of error is prosecuted. The only question raised in this
court is whether the District Court erred in refusing to enter
the certificate of reasonable cause.
The following sections of the Revised Statutes of the United
States are pertinent to the case: "SECT. 909. In suits, or informations brought, where any seizure
is made pursuant to any act providing for or regulating the collection of duties on imports or tonnage, if the property is claimed
by any person, the burden of proof shall lie upon such claimant:
.Provided,that probable cause is shown for such prosecution, to be
judged of by the court."
"SECT. 970. When, in any prosecution commenced on account
of the seizure of any vessel, goods, wares, or merchandise, made by
any collector or other officer under any act of Congress authorizing
such seizure, judgment is rendered for the claimant, but it appears
to the court that there was reasonable cause of seizure, the court
shall cause a proper certificate thereof to be entered, and the claimant shall not in such case be entitled to costs, nor shall the person
who made the seizure, nor the prosecutor, be liable to suit or judgment on account of such suit or prosecution : .Provided,that the
vessel, goods, wares, or merchandise be, after judgment, forthwith
returned to such claimant or his agent."
2Ae Solicitor-Generalfor the United States.
M.r. Edward Salamon, contra.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
We are of opinion that the refusal of the District Court to
grant a certificate of reasonable cause is not a matter which
can be reviewed in the Circuit Court or in this court. It is
only from final judgments that a writ of error lies from the
District to the Circuit Court, or from the latter court to the
Supreme Court.
The granting or the refusal to grant the certificate is not a
final judgment in the sense of the statute which allows writs of
voL. xV.

11

UNITED STATES V. AjBATOIR PLACE.

[Sup. Ct.

error. The certificate, -when granted, is no part of the original case. It is a collateral matter which arises after final
judgment.
It is granted to" protect the person at whose instance the
seizure was made, should an action of trespass be brought
against him by the claimant for the wrongful seizure of the
latter's property. The granting of the certificate of reasonable
cause is, therefore, only antecedent and ancillary to another
suit, and is not a final judgment in the case in which it is
given. It is not final or effectual for any purpose unless certain facts subsequent to the judgment are shown, namely, the
immediate return to the claimant or his agent of the property
seized in the original suit.
This court has decided that a refusal to enter an exoneretur
on a bail bond, that judgments awarding, or refusing to award,
or setting aside writs of restitution in actions of ejectment,
that a judgment on a writ of error coram nobis, that a judgment refusing a writ of venditioni exponas, that a refusal to
quash an execution or to quash a forthcoming bond, were not
final judgments, to which a writ of error would lie. Boyle
v. Zacharie, 6 Pet. 635; Pickett's H1eirs v. Legerwood, 7 id.
144; Smith v. Trabue, 9 id. 4; -Evansv. Gee, 14 id. 1; Amis v.
Smith, 16 id. 303; Morsell v. Hall, 13 How. 212; iJfcCargo
v. Chapman, 20 id. 555; Gregg v. Forsyth, 2 Wall. 56; Barton
v. Forsyth, 5 id. 190. See also Barker v. H~ollier, 8 Mee. & W.
513.
These authorities lead to the opinion we have expressed in
this case.
Judgment affirmed.

