Oct. 1882.]

ALBRIGHT v. TEAS.

ALBRIGHT v. TEAS.
A suit, the parties thereto being citizens of the same State, was brought in a
court thereof, for moneys alleged to be due to the complainant under a contract whereby certain letters-patent granted to him were transferred to the
defendant. Held, that the suit, not involving the validity or the construction
of the patents, is not one arising under a law of the United States, and cannot
be removed to the Circuit Court.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of New Jersey.
This was a suit in equity originally brought in the Court of
Chancery of the State of New Jersey by Teas, against Albright,
Caboone, and Tompkins. The bill alleges that he is the inventor and patentee of certain improvements in coach-pads,
harness-saddles, and saddle-trees, covered by three certain
letters-patent issued to him; that on Feb. 1, 1876, he made an
agreement in writing of that date with Albright and Cahoone,
which is in substance as follows: He agreed on his part to assign to them said letters-patent, and also certain other letterspatent for which he had made application to the Patent Office,
and also any other patents which he might obtain for improvements in gig-saddles and coach-pads for harness; in consideration whereof they agreed that they would " use their best
endeavors to have the aforesaid inventions worked, goods manufactured and sold to the best advantage of themselves and
said Teas," and to pay him certain specified royalties for the
use of the patented improvements, and pay "all just and necessary expenses for the purpose of procuring and sustaining all
of said letters-patent against infringers," provided it be for the
mutual interests and financial benefit of all the parties to the
agreement.
The bill further alleges that Teas assigned the patents as
stipulated in the agreement, and that the agreement was in full
force; that a large amount of goods, in which the improvements covered by his patents are used, were manufactured by
Albright and Cahoone under the name of the Caboone Manufacturing Company, and by Tompkins, Albright, and Cahoone,
under the firm name of Samuel E. Tompkins, Cahoone, & Co.;

ALBRIGHT

v.

TEAS.

[Sup. Ct.

that the defendants failed to render proper statements of the
quantity of goods manufactured by them; that he believes
there is a large amount due him under said contract for royalties, and that he tried without success to obtain an inspection
of the account-books of defendants to ascertain what was so
due him.
The bill prays for a discovery, an account of the sums due
the complainant for royalties under the contract, and for a decree against Albright and Cahoone for the amount found to be
due from them to him, and for general relief.
Albright and Cahoone filed a joint and several answer and
Tompkins a several answer to the bill.
Albright and Cahoone, in their answer, neither admit nor
deny that Teas is the original inventor of the patents assigned
to them, but they deny that he had not free access to their
books of account. They aver that they rendered full accounts
and made all payments due to Teas under the agreement
set forth in the bill; that disputes, if any exist between him
and them, arose from his wrong construction of the agreement, and from his unfounded claims to rights under it; that
at the time of the agreement they were in litigation with
Tompkins in respect to certain patents held by him for improvements in saddle-trees; that the litigation and rivalry
impaired the business of all three, and that in October, 1877,
they settled their differences with To mpkins and united their
business with his, and it had since been carried on by the firm
of Tompkins, Cahoone, & Co., which was entitled to use all the
patents of both parties, and that the new firm manufactured
many goods without employing any of the improvements described in the patent of Teas, and manufactured many to
which they applied the improvements covered by the Teas
patents in connection with those covered by patents of Tompkins and others; that Tompkins always disputed the value
and validity of the Teas patents, but that they, Albright and
Cahoone, were anxious to fulfil their agreement with Teas,
and paid royalties on all goods to the manufacture of which
it could, by any reasonable construction, be claimed that the
improvements covered by his patents had been applied, and
that if he claims more it is because he insists that goods made

Oct. 1882.]

ALBRIGHT

v.

TEAS.

under the patents of Tompkins are infringements on his
patents.
Tompkins makes substantially the same denials and averments in his answer. He also avers that he is not a party to
the agreement with Teas, and denies all obligations under it.
He alleges that though he always disputed the validity of the
Teas patents, he desired to enable his partners, Albright and
Cahoone, fairly to fulfil their agreement with Teas, and that
it has been fulfilled, and all moneys have been paid him to
which he was entitled for goods made under his patents.
Replications were filed to these answers, and the parties proceeded to take testimony. While the taking of the testimony
was going on, some correspondence took place between their
counsel, in which counsel for defendants specified a large number of articles which they admitted that the defendants were
manufacturing under the Teas patents, and gave a list of nineteen other articles manufactured by the defendants, which they
contended were not made under the patents of Teas, and did not,
therefore, fall within the agreement between him and Albright
and Cahoone. Thereupon the defendants filed a petition for
the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United
States, in which they alleged that all the parties to the suit
were citizens of the State of New Jersey, but that the suit was
one arising under the patent laws of the United States, and
exclusively within the cognizance of the courts of the United
States, and removable under the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137.
Upon this petition the cause was removed to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of New Jersey. By consent of parties an interlocutory order was made in the Circuit
Court referring the cause to a master to report the amount, if
anything, due the complainant for royalty upon the articles,
enumerating them, in the manufacture of which his patented
improvements were used.
Upon final hearing, the testimony having been closed, the
counsel for the complainant moved the Circuit Court to remand the cause. That court held that it had no jurisdiction,
and that the State court had full and exclusive cognizance
of the suit, inasmuch as it did not arise under any of the
laws of the United States, but was one for an accounting and

ALBRIGHT V. TEAS.

[Sup. Ct.

relief and for the settlement of controversies under a contract.
An order was thereupon entered remanding the suit. From this
order Albright, Cahoone, and Tompkins appealed to this court.
?4r. Anthony Q. Keasbey and 1Vr. Joseph C. Clayton for the
appellants.
Mr. Walter H. Smith for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court, and,
after stating the case as above, proceeded as follows: The contention of the appellants is that the case is one
"arising under the . . . laws of the United States," and was,
therefore, properly removable from the State to the United
States courts, and should not have been remanded.
It is clear, from an inspection of the bill and answers, that
the case is founded upon the agreement in writing between the
appellee and the appellants Albright and Cahoone, by which
the former, for a consideration therein specified, transferred to
the latter his interest in certain letters-patent. The suit was
brought to recover the consideration for this transfer, and was
not based on the letters-patent.
The appellants insist, however, that evidence was taken in
the cause by the appellee for the purpose of proving that they
were using his patented improvements in the manufacture of
goods for which they paid him no royalty, and which they
contended did not embody the improvements covered by his
patents; that the testimony developed a controversy on the
question whether the goods which they manufactured under
other patents owned by them were or were not infringements
on his patents; consequently, that questions of infringement
and of the construction of the claims of his patents were necessarily involved in the case, and, therefore, it was one arising
under the patent laws of the United States.
We search the bill of complaint in vain to find any averments raising these questions. It makes no issue touching the
construction of the patents granted the appellee, or their validity, or their infringement. The only complaint made in
the bill is that the appellants were fraudulently excluding the
appellee from an inspection o' their books of account, and refusing to pay him the sums due for royalties under his cont'act

Oct. 1882.]

ALBRIGHT

v.

TEAS.

And the prayer of the bill was for a discovery, an account of
what was due the appellee under his contract, and a decree for
the amount found to be due him.
On the face of the bill, therefore, the case is not one arising
under the patent laws of the United States. Wilson v. Sandford, 10 How. 99.
The testimony on which the appellants rely to show the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is not before us ; but conceding that
it discloses the controversy which they assert that it does, the
question arises, Does this fact give the courts of the United
States jurisdiction of the case?
Tompkins is the only one of the appellants who questions the
validity of the appellee's patents. But he is not a party to the
contract between the appellee and Albright and Cahoone, and
no relief is prayed against him by the bill; and though he says
in his answer that he had always disputed the value and validity
of those patents, he raises no issues thereon. The fact that he
is made a party defendant to the bill can, therefore, have no
effect on the question in hand.
In passing on the question of jurisdiction, the case is to be
considered as if Albright and Cahoone were the only defendants.
The appellee, before the commencement of the suit, sold and
transferred to Albright and Cahoone all his title and interest
in the inventions covered by his patents. The transfer was
absolute and unconditional. No right, therefore, secured to the
appellee in the patent by any act of Congress remained in
him. He had no right to prosecute any one for infringements
of his patents, or to demand damages therefor, or an account of
profits.
He was entitled to the royalties secured by his contract, and
nothing more. And the only question raised by the bill of
complaint and the answer of Albright and Cahoone was simply
this: What is the sum due the appellee from Albright and
Caboone for his royalties under his contract ? In ascertaining
this amount, it, of course, became necessary to inquire what
goods were manufactured by the appellants under the patents
of the appellee. In prosecuting this inquiry, an incidental
question might arise, namely, What goods were manufactured

1618

ALBRIGHT

v.

TEAS.

[Snp. Ct.

by the appellants under other patents of which they were the
owners or licensees? But this incidental and collateral inquiry does not change the nature of the litigation. The fact
that Albright and Cahoone had licenses to use other patents
under which they were manufacturing goods, does not give
them the right to litigate their cause in the United States
courts because certain goods, which they asserted were made
under the other patents, the appellee asserted were really made
under his. The suit, notwithstanding the collateral inquiry,
still remains a suit on the contract to recover royalties, and
not a suit upon the .letters-patent. It arises solely upon the
contract, and not upon the patent laws of the United States.
In fact, it does not appear that there is any dispute whatever
between the parties in reference to the construction of the
patents of the appellee. The controversy between them, as
stated by the appellants themselves, is whether certain goods
manufactured by them embody the invention covered by the
appellee's patents. This does not necessarily involve a construction of the patents. Both parties may agree as to what
the patented invention is, and yet disagree on the question
whether the invention is employed in the manufacture of certain specified goods. The controversy between the parties in
this case is clearly of the latter kind.
The case cannot, therefore, be said to be one which grows
out of the legislation of Congress. Neither party asserts any
right, privilege, claim, protection, or defence founded, in whole
or in part, on any law of the United States.
We are, therefore, of opinion that, even if we go outside the
pleadings and look into the testimony, the case is not one
arising under the laws of the United States, and, consequently,
that the courts of the United States had no jurisdiction to entertain it.
The cases adjudged by this and other courts of the United
States sustain this conclusion. In the case of Wilson v. Sandford, ubi supra,the object of the bill was to set aside a contract
made by the appellant with the appellees, by which he had
granted them permission to use, and vend to others to be used,
one of Woodworth's planing-machines in the cities of New
Orleans and Lafayette, and also to obtain an injunction against

Oct. 82.]

O.LBRtGHT v.

TEAS.

the further use of the machine, on the ground that it was an
infringement of his patent-rights. Upon this cause the court,
speaking by Mr. Chief Justice Taney, said: "The dispute in
this case does not arise under any act of Congress, nor does the
decision depend upon the construction of any law in relation to
patents. It arises out of the contract stated in the bill, and
there is no act of Congress providing for or regulating contracts
of this kind. The rights of the parties depend altogether upon
common law and equity principles."
The case of 1iartell v. Tilghm an, 99 U. S. 547, is also in
point. In that case Hartell, the complainant, alleged that he
was the original patentee and inventor of a process for cutting
and engraving stone, glass, metal, and other hard substances by
what is known as the sand-blast process ; that the defendants
had paid him a considerable sum for machines necessary in the
use of his invention, and had also paid him during several
months the royalty which he asked for the use of the invention
described in and secured by his patent; that the defendants
refused to do certain other things, which he charged to have
been a part of the consideration of the contract between them,
whereupon he had forbidden them further to use his invention,
and that they had disregarded this prohibition.
The bill
prayed for an injunction, an account of profits, and damages.
The defendants admitted the validity of the patent, their use
of it, and their liability for its use under their contract with
the complainant, and offered to perform all that the contract
required them to perform. All the parties were citizens of the
same State.
Upon this case the question of the jurisdiction of the United
States courts was raised ; and this court, after a review of several cases bearing on the subject, held that the suit was not
one arising under the laws of the United States, and that
the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the case. The decree
was reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the bill.
The argument against the jurisdiction in the case under consideration is stronger than in the two cases above referred to.
In each of these cases the object of the complainant in filing

UNITED STATES V. WILSON.

[Sup. Ct.

the bill was to go behind the agreement under which the defendant had contracted for the right to use the complainant's
invention, and to obtain an injunction against the defendant as
an infringer. In this case, the appellee admits the contract to
be in force, and simply seeks to compel its performance.
The following cases, cited by this court in Hartell v. Tilghman, are in accord with the views we have expressed: Goodyear
v. India-Rubber Company, 4 Blatchf. 63 ; Merserole v. Union
Paper Collar Co., 6 id. '356; Blanchard v. Sprague, 1 Cliff.
288; Hill v. Whitcomb, 1 Holmes, 317.
From the conclusions reached by us, it follows that the decree of the Circuit Court remanding the cause to the State
court must be

Affirmed.

UNITED STATES V. WILSON.
Certificates of indebtedness issued by a person or a corporation are not taxable
as "circulation," under sect. 8408, IRev. Stat., unless they were calculated or
intended to circulate or to be used as money.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Middle.District of Tennessee.
In a foreclosure suit, commenced Oct. 24, 1874, against the
Saint Louis and Southeastern Railway Company, the court
appointed a receiver to manage the affairs of the company and
issue certificates of indebtedness. The order appointing him
was modified, Dec. 7, 1874, so as to authorize and allow him
"for the purpose of providing money to make payments on
account of the balance of purchase-money due the State of
Tennessee for the road sold as the Edgefield & Kentucky Railroad, from time to time to issue his certificates, which, altogether, shall not exceed two hundred and fifty thousand dollars
on so much of the road mentioned in the pleadings as lies and
is situated in the State of Tennessee, in such general form as
may be approved of by complainants, providing for the payment
thereof out of any of the moneys as are applicable for that
purpose, which certificates shall bear interest at a rate not ex-

