WING v. ANTHONY.

[Sup. Ot.

WING v. ANTHONY.
Reissued letters-patent No. 1049, bearing date Sept. 25, 1860, granted to Albert
S. Southworth for certain improvements in taking photographic impressions,
and subsequently extended for seven years from April 10, 1869, are void, the
claim therein made being for a different invention from that described in the
original letters.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
th6 Southern District of Newv York.
This was a bill in equity brought by Wing and others, to
restrain Anthony and the other defendants from infringing
reissued letters-patent No. 1049, granted Sept. 25, 1860, to
Albert S. Southworth, for certain improvements in taking
photographic impressions, and subsequently extended for seven
years from April 10, 1869. The original letters-patent are
dated April 10, 1855.
The answer denies as well the novelty and the utility of the
invention, as the alleged infringement, and sets up that the
invention described in the reissue is not the same as that for
which the original letters were granted.
The Circuit Court upon final hearing dismissed the bill, and
the complainants appealed to this court.
It appears from the evidence, and is a matter of gene:al
knowledge, that a camera is tlhe principal instrument used in
taking photographic pictures. It is a rectangular, oblong box,
in one end of which is inserted a tube containing a double convex lens, while at the other end is a plate-holder, immediately
in front of which is a sliding shield. A plate of glass receives
in a dark room a chemical preparation which renders it sensitive to the action of light. It is then put into the plate-holder
at the end of the camera opposite the lens, the shield in front
of it withdrawn, and the rays of light passing through the
lens from an object suitably placed in front of it fall upon the
plate and produce there an image of the object. This is then
perfected by certain other chemical processes, and is called
a negative, and from it many copies may be printed. Thus
photographic pictures are produced.
The camera should be so arranged with relation to the

Oct. 1882..]

WING V. ANTHONY.

object to be pictured that a right line drawn from the centre
of the object will pass directly through the axis of the lens
and fall upon the plate at right angles. In this manner the
best pictures are obtained. If this method is not followed,
the picture will be distorted and otherwise imperfect.
It is conceded that prior to the date of Southworth's invention this object was accomplished by tilting the camera itself
into different positions with respect to the object to be pictured, and in this manner bringing the centre of the field of
the lens upon different parts of the plate.
Complainants contend that prior to Southworth's invention
only one correct picture could be taken on the same plate,
except in the manner just stated. The object of the invention
covered by his original letters was to provide efficient means
by which several correct pictures could be taken on different
'parts of the same plate.
In the specification of his original letters he declares his invention to be "a new and useful plate-holder for cameras for
taking photographic impressions," and adds: "The object of
my invention is to bring in rapid succession different portions
of the same plate, or different plates of whatsoever material
prepared for photographic purposes, into the centre of the field
of the lens, for the purpose of either timing them differently,
that the most perfect may be selected, or of taking different
views of the same object with the least delay possible, or of
taking stereoscopic pictures upon the same or different plates
with one camera." He then states: "My invention consists
of a peculiarly arranged frame in which the plate-holder is
permitted to slide, by which means I am enabled to take four
daguerreotypes on one plate and at one sitting, different portions
of the plate being brought successively opposite an opening in
the frame, the opening remaining stationary in the axis of the
camera while the plate-holder and plate are moved."
The specification describes minutely the frame-holder by
which the object of the invention is accomplished.
The claim is as follows: "What I claim as my invention and desire to secure by letters-patent is the within-described plate-holder in combination
with the frame in which it moves, constructed and operated in

WING v. ANTHONY.

[Sup. Ct.

the manner and for the purpose substantially as herein set
forth."
The specification of the reissued letters contains the following passages which do not appear in the original specification:
"I have invented certain improvements in taking photographic
impressions." . . . "In taking daguerreotypes, photographs,
&c., it has been customary to use a separate plate for each
impression, the plate being removed from the camera and
replaced by another when several impressions of the same
object were to be taken, as in multiplying copies, or for the
purpose of selecting the best-timed pictures. This caused considerable delay and trouble, to obviate which is the object of
my present invention, which consists in bringing successively
different portions of the same plate, or several smaller plates
secured in one plate-holder, into the field of the lens of the
camera.
"In carrying out my invention I have made use of a peculiarly arranged frame, in which the plate-holder is permitted to
slide, and in which the position of the plate-holder is definitely
indicated to the operator, so that he can quickly and accurately
adjust the plate or plates, the accompanying drawings and
description so explaining the same that others skilled in the
art may understand and use my invention."
Then follows a description of the plate-holder, which is
identical with the description contained in the original specification, and is illustrated by the same drawings.
The specification further declares: "In this case, however,"
that is, when it is desired to take more than four impressions
on the same plate, "I use suitable grooves, stops, or indices, by
which the operator adjusts the positions of the plate substantially on the same principle that he uses the corners of the
opening K in the above-described apparatus. It is evident that
my improvement may be embodied by causing the lens of the
camera to be made adjustable in different positions with respect
to the plate, while the plate remains stationary, so that different portions of the plate may be brought into the field of the
lens. This I have tried, but do not consider it, practically, to
be so good a plan as the foregoing, as it necessitates a change
of position of the camera itself, or of the objects."

Oct. 1882.]

WING

v.

ANTHONY.

The claim of the reissue is then stated as follows :"What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure by
letters-patent, is bringing the different portions of a single
plate, or several smaller plates, successively into the field of
the lens of the camera, substantially in the manner and for the
purpose specified."
J.Ir. Albert A. Abbott for the appellants.
11r. Edmund Wetmore for the appellees.
MR.JUSTICE WOODS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It is manifest that the reissued patent was taken out for the
purpose of embracing under its monopoly what was not included by the original patent. The original patent was not, in
the language of the statute, " inoperative or invalid by reason
of a defective or insufficient specification, or by reason of the
patentee claiming as his own invention or discovery more than
he had a right to claim as new."
The original claim was for a mechanism; namely, "a plateholder in combination with the frame in which it moves, constructed and operating in the manner and for the purpose" set
forth in the specification. The claim of the reissued patent is
plainly for a process; namely, "the bringing of the different
portions of a single plate, or several smaller plates, successively
into the field of the lens of the camera, substantially in the
manner and for the purpose specified."
This claim would cover any mechanism by which the different parts of the plate could be brought into the field of the
lens. In fact, the specification of the reissued patent suggests
a different contrivance; namely, the causing of the lens of the
camera to be made adjustable in different positions with respect
to the plate, while the plate remains stationary, so that different portions of the plate may be brought into the field of the
lens.
It is quite clear that the original patent covers a mechanism
to accomplish a specific result, and that the reissued patent
covers the process by which that result is attained, without
regard to the mechanism used to accomplish it. The reissue is,
therefore, much broader than the original patent, and covers
VOL. XVI.

¢10

WING V. ANTHONY.

[Sup. t

every mechanism which can be contrived to carry on the
process.
In the case of Powder Company v. Powder Works, 98 U. S.
126, it was held by this court that when original letters-patent were taken out for a process, the reissued patent would
not cover a composition unless it were the result of the process, and the invention of one involved the invention of the
other.
The converse of this proposition was decided by this court
in James v. Campbell, 104 id. 356. In that case the court
said that a patent for a process and a patent for an implement
or a machine are very different things, and decided, in substance, that letters-patent for a machine or implement cannot
be reissued *forthe purpose of claiming the process of operating
that class of machines, because, if the claim for the process is
anything more than for the use of the particular machine
patented, it is for a different invention.
To the same effect precisely is the case of Heald v. BRice,
id. 737. The present case falls within the rule laid down
in the authorities cited.
Southworth's invention as described in his original patent
must be limited to what is there set forth, namely, a mechanism
for bringing successively different portions of the plate within
the field of the lens. He did not discover the law that to get
the best effect in taking pictures the plate, or part of the plate,
on which the picture is to be taken, should be brought into
the field of the lens, nor did he invent the method of doing this
by tilting the camera itself into different positions with respect
to the object to be pictured.
This law was known, and the practice mentioned was followed, long before Southworth's invention. His device was
simply a new and specific means to take advantage of a wellknown law of nature. In his reissue, by claiming as his invention the process of bringing different parts of the plate
successively into the field of the lens, he seeks to put himself
in as gQod a position as if he had been the first to discover the
law referred to, and the first to invent the method of taking
advantage of the law by tilting his camera into different positions. In claiming the process he excludes all other mech-

Oct. 1882.]

JESSUP V. UNITED

STATES.

anisms contrived to accomplish the same object. This he
could not rightfully do.
We are of opinion that the claim of the reissued patent is
for a different invention from that described in the original
patent, and that the reissue is therefore void. Gill v. Wells,
22 Wall. 1; The Wood-Paper Patent, 23 id. 566; Powder
Company v. Powder Works, 98 U. S. 126; Ball w. Langles,
102 id. 128; Miller v. Brass Company, 104 id. 350; James v.
Campbell, id. 356; Heald v. Rice, id. 737; Johnson v. Railroad Company, 105 id. 539; Bantz v. Firantz, id. 160.
Decree affirmed.

JESSUP v. UNITED STATES.
1. Section 161 of the act of June 30, 1864, c. 173, entitled "An Act to provide internal revenue to support the government, to pay interest on the public debt,
and for other purposes," does not require that when, pursuant to its provisions, adhesive and other stamps are furnished to the manufacturer on
credit, the bond to secure the payment therefor shall be executed to the
Treasurer of the United States.
2. Even if taken without the authority of a statute, a bond payable to the United
States, with a condition that the manufacturer shall pay such sums as he
shall owe the United States for adhesive stamps, would be binding at
common law, and an action might be maintained thereon.
3. Under such a bond, any competent evidence to establish the manufacturer's
indebtedness for stamps is admissible, whether they were from time to time
furnished by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue or the Assistant Treasurer of the United States.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
This was an action at law brought by the United States
against William H. Jessup, as principal, and Jabez Howes and
others, sureties on his bond, dated Nov. 3, 1869, payable to
the United States, in the sum of 910,000, and conditioned as
follows: -

"The condition of the foregoing obligation is such, that whereas
the said William Henry Jessup is a manufacturer of friction or other
matches, cigar-lights, or wax-tapers; and whereas, under the provisions of the 161st section of an act entitled ' An Act to provide

