Oct. 1882.]

CLARKSON V. STEVENS.

CLARKSON V. STEVENS.
1. Where, by a contract for the construction of a ship, the builder is to furnish
the requisite labor and materials, and to receive therefor a sum payable in
instalments as the work progresses, this court will not enforce any arbitrary
rule of construction in determining the question whether the title remains
in the builder until the ship is delivered or ready for delivery, or whether
the property in so much of her as on the payment of any instalment is completed passes to the other party; but it will carry into effect the intent
of the parties, to be gathered from the terms of the contract and the circumstances attending the transaction.
2. Being thereunto authorized, the Secretary of the Navy entered into a contract
with S., whereby the latter covenanted to construct a shot-and-shell-proof
war-steamer for harbor defence. The Secretary was to appoint an agent to
receive and, on account of the Navy Department, receipt for all materials
delivered at S.'s establishment for the construction of the steamer, - the
materials, when receipted for, to become the property of the United States,
and to be marked "U. S." The agent's certificate to S.'s accounts for
materials and labor was the evidence on which payments were to be made
to the latter. S. executed a mortgage to the United States to secure his
faithful performance of the contract, conferring upon the mortgagee, in
case of his failure to fulfil it, power to enter upon his establishment and
sell the steamer. When the steamer should be fully completed by S. and
accepted by the United States, the balance of the purchase price was then
to be paid and the mortgage surrendered. The period within which the
vessel was to be completed was from time to time extended. S. died, and
the vessel was never finished. Held, 1. That the title to the unfinished vessel remained in S., and that no property therein vested in the United States.
2. That by the resolution of Congress, releasing and conveying to his heirsat-law "all the right, title, and interest of the United States in and to " the
vessel, nothing passed to them.

ERROR to the Court of Chancery of the State of New
Jersey.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
He,'. Walter L. 6arkson and Mr. Frederick TF. Stevens for
the plaintiffs in error.
Alr. Leon Abbett and 31r. John P. Stockton, Attorney-General of New Jersey, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The controversy in this case arises between the plaintiffs in
error, who are, with others, heirs-at-law of Robert L. Stevens,

CLARKSON V. STEVENS.

[Sup. Ct.

deceased, and the State of New Jersey, and involves the title to
an uncompleted ship-of-war, known as the "Stevens Battery."
The claim of the plaintiffs in error is founded on a resolution of Congress approved July 17, 1862, 12 Stat. 628, as
follows: --

"A resolution releasing to the heirs-at-law of Robert Z. Stevens,
deceased, all the right, title, and interest of the United States in
and to ' Stevens' Battery.'
" esolved by the Senate and House of Bepresentatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That all the right,
title, and interest of the United States in and to ' Stevens? Battery'
be, and the same hereby are, released and conveyed to the heirs-atlaw of the said Robert L. Stevens, or their legal representatives."
Robert L. Stevens died in 1856, having his domicile in New
Jersey, and by his will constituted his brother, Edwin A.
Stevens, who was one of his heirs-at-law, and whom he appointed one of his executors, his sole residuary devisee and
legatee.
Conceiving himself to be the owner of the unfinished vessel,
of which he had been in possession since the death of his
brother, and claiming as his residuary legatee, Edwin A.
Stevens, who died Aug. 7, 1868, directed, by his will, his executors to complete it on his general plan, at a cost not exceeding
$1,000,000, and then to offer it to the State of New Jersey as a
present. The executors, after having expended $919,915.49
upon the vessel, found that they could not finish it for the
amount of money to which they were limited, and discontinued
the work. In the mean time the State of New Jersey had accepted the bequest, and the consent of Congress thereto was
given in the following resolution, approved July 1, 1870: "A resolution giving the consent of Congress to the reception of
a certain bequest by the State of New Xersey under the will of the
late -EdwinA. Stevens.
"Whereas Edwin A. Stevens, who was in his lifetime the owner
of the ship known as the ' Stevens Battery,' originally commenced
under contract for the United States government, and upon the
building of which large sums of money were spent by his brother
and himself, did, by his last will and testament (the United States
having previously relinquished all claims to said ship), leaye the

0

Oct. 1882.]

CLARKSON V. STEVENS.

507

same to be finished by his executors, at an expense not exceeding
the sum of one million of dollars, and when finished to be offered
to the State of New Jersey as a present, to be by her received and
disposed of as the said State shall deem proper; and
"Whereas doubts have been suggested as to the right of the said
State to accept the said bequest without the consent of Congress,
under the prohibition of the tenth section of the first article of the
Constitution of the United States: Therefore,
"Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
Urnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the consent
of Congress is hereby given that the State of New Jersey shall
receive and dispose of the said ship according to the terms and
conditions of said bequest."
A bill in equity was filed in the Chancery Court of New
Jersey, by the executors of Edwin A. Stevens, asking for a
construction of the will, in certain particulars, including the
questions arising upon this bequest to the State. The attorneygeneral appeared on behalf of the State, and filed an information, by way of cross-bill, to which the heirs-at-law of Robert
L. Stevens were made parties, as claiming an adverse title. A
final decree was made, establishing the title of the State,
which was affirmed on appeal by the Court of Errors and Appeals. To reverse that decree the present writ of error was
brought, the question presented being one which, as it arises
under a law of the United States, and the decision thereon of
the State court being in denial of the title claimed under the
authority thereof, falls within the jurisdiction of this court.
To determine the proper construction and legal effect of the
resolution of Congress of July 17, 1862, it becomes necessary
to trace from its origin the history of the "Stevens Battery."
By the act of Congress of April 14, 1842, c. 22, "authorizing the construction of a war-steamer for harbor defence," it
is enacted "that the Secretary of the Navy be and he is hereby
authorized to enter into contract with Robert L. Stevens for
the construction of a war-steamer, shot and shell proof, to be
built principally of iron, upon the plan of the said Stevens:
Provided,the whole cost, including the hull, armament, engines,
boiler, and equipment, in all respects complete for service, shall
not exceed the average cost of the steamers 'Missouri' and 'Mis-

508

CLARKSON V. STEVENS.

[Sup. t

sissippi,'" and $250,000 was thereby appropriated towards carrying the law into effect.
In pursuance of this law, the Secretary of the Navy entered,
Feb. 10, 1843, into a contract with Robert L. Stevens for the
construction of a war-steamer for harbor defence, which recited
his proposal, describing the vessel, and containing certain specifications as to its construction, with a covenant on his part
that he would faithfully build and construct the steamer conformably to the plan submitted, and complete the same within
two years, provided Congress should make the further appropriations necessary for the purpose within a reasonable period.
According to the plan proposed the war-steamer was to be
shot and shell proof against the artillery then in use on board
vessels-of-war, viz. from 18-pounders to 64-pounders; to be
propelled by submerged machinery, called Stevens's circular
shells; to have greater speed than any of our steam vessels-ofwar then built; the whole engine to be out of the way of shot
from any vessel of an enemy; and with other specifications as
to the character of the material and the dimensions and relations of the parts, which are important to be noticed only so
far as to show that the proposed vessel was to be constructed
upon a plan original and novel, and with the expectation of
results not previously obtained in any naval construction.
The Secretary of the Navy and Stevens entered, Nov. 14,
1844, into an explanatory contract, which recited that the
stipulations of the former had been found to be too loose and
indefinite as to the details of its execution, and that the parties, considering themselves bound by so much thereof as related
to the dimensions, power, ability to resist shot and shell, and
other qualities and arrangements of the vessel, and the amount
to be paid therefor, entered into further stipulations modifying
and explaining the same. The time for the completion and
delivery of the vessel was extended two years from the date
of the new contract. Many additional specifications as to the
details of construction were inserted. It was agreed that, if
the cost of making any models or patterns used in the construction should be included in bills paid by the United States
in the course of the work or at its completion, they should
become the property of the United States.

Oct. 1882.]

CLARKSON V. STEVENS.

It was also agreed that the Secretary of the Navy should
appoint some person, whom Stevens should admit within his
establishment for building said vessel, whose duty it should be
to receive and receipt for, on account of the Navy Department,
all materials delivered therein for constructing said steamer;
which materials, when so received and receipted for, should be
distinctly marked with the letters "U. S.," and should become
the property of and belong to the United States; and it should
be his further duty to certify all accounts, presented and certifled by Stevens, for materials and labor, which should form the
evidence on which payments should be made; but the authority of such inspecting officer, it was understood, should not
extend to a right to judge of the quality or fitness of the materials or workmanship, but merely as to the cost thereof; "it
being understood," the contract proceeds, "that the quality
and fitness thereof, with other matters concerning the performance of the contract, are to be inspected and determined in
the manner hereinafter provided for."
It was thereupon further stipulated, that before the final payment for the said war-steamer should be made a certificate
should be rendered to the Navy Department, that, in her construction, armament, and equipment, all the provisions of the
contract had been fully performed by Stevens, which certificate
should be given and signed by persons appointed to examine
the vessel, one by Stevens, one by the Secretary of the Navy,
and, in case of disagreement, a third by the other two, the decision of the majority to be conclusive. It was also agreed
that Stevens, in lieu of other security for the faithful performance of the contract on his part, should make to the United
States a mortgage, which should be a first lien on all the land,
docks, wharves, slips, and all their appurtenances belonging to
and embraced within the establishment at Hoboken, New Jersey, at which the war-steamer was to be constructed, with
ample power to enter upon and sell the same in case of failure
on his part to fulfil the contract, or so much thereof as should
be necessary to complete any deficiencies on his part.
The Secretary of the Navy agreed to pay, as the price of
the said war-steamer, when fully completed and delivered at
the navy-yard at Brooklyn, in conformity with the contract,

CLARKSON V. STEVENS.

[Sup. Ot.

the sum of $586,717.84, the supposed mean cost of the steamers
"Missouri" and "Mississippi," or any additional sum that might
afterwards be ascertained as properly included in that cost, to
be indorsed on the contract "as the price which is to be paid
for the said war-steamer when fully completed, delivered, and
accepted."
Payments were to be made, from time to time, upon bills
certified by Stevens and the agent of the United States, for not
less than $5,000 each, and approved by the Navy Department,
until the sum of $500,000 should have been paid; at which
time, it was stipulated, that an examination should be had of
the war-steamer, by persons to be appointed, as before agreed,
for final examination, and if a majority of them should certify
their opinion that the vessel could be fully completed according to contract for the remaining balance which might then
be due, then payments of further bills in full should continue,
not*exceeding the full amount of the whole agreed price; but
otherwise the examiners were required to certify the amount
which, in their opinion, would be required to complete the
steamer, when the Secretary of the Navy was authorized to
withhold from future payments such deductions as might be
necessary to meet the probable excess of cost. It was further
provided, that when Stevens should have fully completed the
said war-steamer, and she should have been duly delivered to
and received by the agent of the United States, according to
the terms of the contract, the full amount of the price remaining unpaid and to become due when she should be fully completed and accepted was required to be paid and the mortgage
security cancelled and returned.
In pursuance of his contract to that effect, Stevens executed
and delivered a mortgage on the premises therein described,
being the basin, dock, shops, &c., wherein the war-steamer was
to be constructed, conditioned to be void, in case he fully performed his contract in relation thereto, with a power of entry
and sale, on the part of the mortgagee, in case default should
be made in the completion and delivery of the said war-steamer
at the expiration of four years from that date, according to the
conditions and stipulations of the contract, and out of the proceeds of such sale to retain any dues that might have accrued

Oct. 1882.]

CLARKSON V. STEVENS.

by reason of the failure to perform the contract, or so much
thereof as should be necessary to complete any deficiencies on
the part of the said Stevens.
The time for the performance of the contract was by a
subsequent agreement extended for four years from Sept. 9,
1848.
From Jan. 5, 1845, to Dec. 14, 1855, there was paid out by
the Navy Department on account of the vessel $500,000.
Robert L. Stevens had, in addition, expended in its construction, of his own means, $113,579.
The act of Aug. 16, 1856, c. 123, contains an appropriation
"for Stevens war-steamer, eighty-six thousand, seven hundred
and seventeen dollars and eighty-five cents," being the remainder of the contract price ; but no portion of this was ever
paid.
In the mean time, Edwin A. Stevens took possession of the
work upon the death of his brother, as executor and residuary
legatee, and expended thereon, prior to Sept. 5, 1857, of his
own money, the sum of $89,185.37.
Nothing further appears to have been done until the passage
of the act of April 17, 1862, c. 57, making an additional appropriation for the naval service for the year ending June 30, 1862.
The second section is as follows: ".And be itfurther enacted, That the sum of $783,294, being the
amount necessary to be provided, as estimated by a board appointed
for that purpose, to pay for and finish the ' Stevens Battery' now
partially constructed at Hoboken, New Jersey, be and the same is
hereby appropriated out of any money not otherwise appropriated
for the immediate construction of said battery: Provided,that in
the contract for the completion of said vessel it shall be stipulated
that no part of the money claimed by Edwin A. Stevens to have
been heretofore expended by him upon said vessel shall be refunded
until the amount of said claim shall be established to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the Navy, and the payment of the said
sum shall be contingent upon the success of said vessel as an ironclad, sea-going war-steamer, to be determined by the President, and
such contract shall stipulate the time within which the vessel shall
be completed: Provided,nevertheless, that said money shall not be
expended unless the Secretary of the Navy is of opinion that. the
same will secure to the public service an efficient steam battery."

CLARKSON V. STEVENS.

[Sup. Ct.

The board, whose estimate is adopted in this act, was one
appointed by the Secretary of the Navy, under the authority
of a joint resolution of Congress, approved July 24, 1861, whose
report was communicated to the House of Representatives in a
letter of the Secretary of the Navy to the Speaker, dated Jan.
2, 1862. Ex. Doc. No. 23, H. R., 37th Congress, 2d Sess.
Upon the question of the expediency of completing the vessel,
the board specify six important particulars, as among "the
many novel characteristics which she would possess," in which
she differed from ordinary wvar-vessels, and conclude by saying:
" We cannot recommend the expenditure of important sums of
money upon projects of more than doubtful success when put
into practical execution; and therefore we do not deem it expedient to complete this vessel upon the plan proposed." The
report had previously stated "that the original projector of the
vessel was the late Robert L. Stevens, Esq., deceased, and that
his brother, Edwin A. Stevens, Esq., who now proposes to complete it, has materially changed the plans from what appears to
have been originally intended."
No part of the sum appropriated by the act of April 17,
1862, was applied to the purpose of completing the battery.
The Secretary of the Navy declined to do so, in the exercise of
the discretion confided to him in the last clause of the section,
for reasons set forth in his letter to the Speaker of the House
of Representatives, dated May 27, 1862, in which he states
that he had taken the opinion of a commission of experts, who
had reported that "the vessel, if completed on the plans of Mr.
Stevens, will not make an efficient steam battery," and, therefore, that he did not feel authorized to make the expenditure
unless Congress should so direct.
Congress thereupon passed the joint resolution, approved
July 17, 1862, on which the plaintiffs in error found their
claim.
Nothing appears to have been done towards resuming work
on the vessel from the date of the last previous expenditure in
1857, until the death of Edwin A. Stevens, on Aug. 7, 1868,
during which time it remained in his possesion and control.
His will contained the following provision: "I empower my
executors to apply not exceeding the sum of one million dollars

Oct. 1882.]

CLARKSON V. STEVENS.

to finish, on my general plans, as near as may be, in the discretion of my said executors, the battery known as the ' Stevens
Battery,' and for the accomplishment of the said object I give
to them the use of the dock and yards and basin heretofore appropriated to the said battery, and all the material provided
for said battery. When said battery shall be finished, I direct
my executors to offer the same to the State of New Jersey as a
present, to be disposed of as the said State shall deem proper;
and if not accepted by the said State, I direct my executors to
sell the same, and the proceeds thereof shall fall into the residue of my estate."
In execution of this authority the executors, prior to Feb. 27,
1873, expended $919,915.49, of which $27,309.79 was received
from the sale of old material.
The legislature of New Jersey, on March 21, 1871, had authorized the appointment of commissioners with power to sell
the battery, and, in pursuance of that authority, the vessel,
never having been finished, was sold for the sum of $75,000.
The contention of the plaintiffs in error is that the title to
the unfinished vessel passed, as the work progressed, to the
United States, and became vested, together with the right to
enforce the contract for its completion, and the security of the
mortgage, as against the estate of Robert L. Stevens, in his
heirs-at-law, by force of the joint resolution of July 17, 1862.
In support of the proposition that by the building contract
the title to the unfinished ship vested, as the work progressed,
in the United States, counsel rely upon the rule of construction
announced by Lord Tenterden in Woods v. Bussell, 5 Barn. &
Ald. 942, and followed by the English cases of Clarke v.
Spence, 4 Ad. & E. 448; Carruthiers v. Paine,5 Bing. 270;
Laidler v. Burlinson, 2 Mee. & W. 602; Wood v. Bell, 5 El. &
BI. 772, affirmed in the Exchequer Chamber, 6 id. 355; iTicBain
v. Wallace, 6 App. Cas. 588; and by the American cases of
.iloocly v. Brown, 34 Me. 107; Butterworth v. HfleKinly, 11
Humph. (Tenn.) 206; Sandford v. Wiggins Ferry Co., 27 Ind.
522; Scudder v. Calais Steanmboat Co., I Cliff. 370.
This conclusion was assented to in the present case by the
Chancellor, who proceeded to a final decree, however, against
the plaintiffs in error, on the ground that the title of the
VOL. xvi.

33

CLARKSON V. STEVENS.

[Sap. Ot.

United States passed by the resolution of July 17, 1862, not to
the heirs-at-law of Robert L. Stevens for their own benefit, but
to or for the benefit of Edwin A. Stevens, the residuary legatee,
The Court of Errors and Appeals, while affirming his decree,
took a different view, and decided that the title of the shilp
never vested in the United States as owner; following its owii
previous decision in Elliott v. Edwards, 35 N. J. L. 265; s. c,
36 id. 449; the New York case of Andrews v. Durant, 11 N. Y,
35, and supported by the decision in Williams v. Jackman,
16 Gray (Mass.), 514, in which the rule is stated by Bigelow,
C. J., as follows: ,1Under a contract for supplying labor and
materials and making a chattel, no property passes to the
vendee till the chattel is completed and delivered or ready to
be delivered. This is a general rule of law. It must prevail
in all cases, unless a contrary intent is expressed or clearly im.
plied from the terms of the contract."
The rule first introduced in Woods v. Russell, 5 Barn. &
Ald. 942, as interpreted by the English courts, according to
Clarke v. Spence, 4 Ad. & E. 448, is "founded on the notion
that provision for the payment, regulated by particular stages
of the work, is made in the contract with a view to give the
purchaser the security of certain portions of the work for the
money he is to pay, and is equivalent to an express provision
that, on payment of the first instalment, the general property
in so much of the vessel as is then constructed shall vest in the
purchaser." This dictum from *Woods v. Russell, according to
Benjamin on Sales, 246, 2d ed., was deliberately adopted as
a rule of construction by which, in similar ship-building contracts, the parties are held to have, by implication, evinced an
intention that the property shall pass, notwithstanding the
general rule to the contrary, and adds: "The law thus established has remained unshaken to the present time."
Nevertheless, in Wood v. Bell, 5 El. & Bl. 772, Lord Campbell, C. J., said: "When a man contracts with another to
make any article for him for a given price, the general rule is,
in the absence of all circumstances from which a contrary conclusion may be inferred, that no property passes in the chattel
until it be completed and ready for delivery; on the other
hand, where a bargain is made for the purchase of an existing

Oct. 1882.]

CLARKSON V. STEVENS.

ascertained chattel, the general rule, in the same absence of
opposing circumstances, is that the property passes immediately
to the vendee; that is, that there is at once a complete bargain
and sale. But these general rules are both and equally founded
on the presumed intention of the parties. If, in the first, there
are attendant circumstances from which the intention may be
inferred that the property shall pass in the incomplete and
growing chattel as the manufacture of it proceeds, or even in
ascertained materials from which it is to be carried to perfection, that intention will be effectuated; and equally, in
the latter, if it appear that the parties intended to postpone the
transfer of the property till the payment of the price or the
performance of any other condition, such intention will be upheld in the courts of law." "This principle," he added, "we
believe to be well settled;" and referring to the cases of Woods
v. Russell, Clarke v. Spence, Laidler v. Burlihson, and others,
cited in argument, he remarked, that "previous decisions,
therefore, are mainly useful as serving to guide our judgment
in estimating the weight of circumstances as evidence of intention;" and concluded by saying: "Still it must be remembered, after all, that what we have to determine is a question of
fact; namely, what, upon a careful consideration of all the circumstances, we believe to have been the contract into which
the parties have entered."
It is, perhaps, worthy of remark, that this passage from the
judgment of Lord Campbell has, by the editors of Abbott on
Merchant Ships and Seamen, been incorporated into the text
of that treatise.
The courts of this country have not adopted any arbitrary
rule of construction as controlling such agreements, but consider the question of intent, open in every case, to be determined upon the terms of the contract, and the circumstances
attending the transaction. 1 Parsons, Shipping and Admiralty,
63. And such seems to us to be the true principle.
Accordingly, we are of opinion, that the fact that advances
were made out of the purchase-money, according to the contract, for the cost of the work as it progressed, and that the
government was authorized to require the presence of an agent
to jon in certifying to the accounts, are not conclusive evi-

516

CLARKSON V. STEVENS.

[Sup. Ct.

dence of an intent that the property in the ship should vest
in the United States prior to final delivery. Indeed, in reference to the ratter circumstance, it is noticeable, as indicating
a contrary intention, that the authority of the inspecting officer was expressly limited, so that it should not extend to a
right to judge of the quality and fitness of the materials or
workmanship, such matters and all others'concerning the performance of the contract being reserved for determination
after the completion of the work, as a condition of acceptance
and final payment.
Much stress is laid, in argument, upon that provision of the
contract which required all materials received at the yard for
use in constructing the steamer to be distinctly marked with
the letters "U. S.," and declared that they should become the
property of and belong to the United States. But it does not
follow, because ihe materials provided for that use were declared to be the property of the United States, it was intended
that they should remain so after becoming part of the structure. Such a precaution might well have been suggested, as
a security against a diversion of the materials to any unauthorized use, or to preserve them to the United States, in case, by
reason of the failure of the Avork or from any other cause, they
should not be used in the vessel. Indeed, as is remarked by
the learned judge who delivered the opinion of the Court of
Errors and Appeals in this case, the express declaration that
defined the property in the unused materials seems to exclude
the implication sought to be raised as to the property in the
unfinished ship ; for the inference is obvious, from the particularity of such a provision, that the larger interest would not be
left to merd intendment.
There are two other provisions of the contract, which seem
to us conclusive of the question, and, in a sense, adverse to the
construction of the plaintiffs in error.
The first of these is, that which required Stevens, in lieu
of other security for his faithful performance of the contract,
to execute and deliver a mortgage on all the land, docks,
wharves, slips, and all their appurtenances belonging to and
embraced within the establishment at Hoboken, N. J., at which
the war-steamer was to be constructed, with power to the

Oct. 1882.]

CLARKSON V. STEVENS.

United States to enter upon and sell the same in case of his
failure to fulfil his part of the contract, or so much thereof as
should be necessary to complete any deficiencies on his part.
The taking of this security, as an indemnity to the United
States, assumes the anticipated possibility that the failure
might be total, so that the vessel, when offered for delivery,
might be altogether rejected. And it does not detract from
the force of this conclusion, that the alternative provides for
completing deficiencies, if they should prove to be remedial;
for, in that case, the United States, at its option, might accept
the vessel, thus becoming invested with the title, and make
good its deficiencies out of this security.
The other feature of the contract, which corroborates this
view, is that which provides that final payment for the steamer
shall be made only upon the certificate of examiners, to be
appointed for that purpose, that in her construction, armament,
and equipment all the provisions of the contract have been
fully performed and completed, which requires that the steamer
shall be fully completed and delivered at the navy-yard at
Brooklyn, and fixes the gross amount which is to be paid for it
when fully completed, delivered, and accepted. The fact that
advances are to be made in the mean time is expressly stated to
be in consideration of the security to be given by Stevens for
the faithful performance of his contract, and that compensation for his time and services must be wholly deferred until
the final completing and delivery of the vessel.
It is thus apparent, as we think, from these stipulations that
the vessel was in all respects to be at the risk of the builder
until, upon its completion, the United States should accept it,
upon final examination and certificate, as conforming in every
particular with the requirements of the contract, and answering the description and warranty of an efficient steam battery
for harbor defence, shot and shell proof.
And looking at the situation of the parties, and the objects
they must have had in view, all doubt is removed as to their
intention. Stevens was an ardent and sanguine inventor, who
had convinced himself that his unique design of a naval structure was practicable and of great value, and that, if adopted, it
would prove to be of immense public utility. He succeeded

CLARKSON V. STEVENS.

[Sup. Ct,

also in persuading the government to make the experiment,
and give him the opportunity of realizing his theories. But it
was understood to be merely an experiment, and evidently, by
the Navy Department, naturally conservative and inclined to
adhere with some tenacity to its own traditions, regarded, at
best, as of very doubtful success. The steamer, when built,
was to constitute a part of the naval establishment of the
United States. Can it be supposed that this was to take place
except upon condition that, after completion and sufficient examination, it should be found fit for the service? This is the
view, as it seems to us, which Congress, by its legislation, and
the Navy Department, in all its dealings with the subject, constantly entertained and acted upon, and which both Robert L.
Stevens and his brother, Edwin A. Stevens, did not hesitate to
accept, the latter not shrinking from a further investment of
$1,000,000 in an enterprise which he still cherished with confidence of ultimate success, after it had become to almost every
one else a demonstrated failure, and after the government, for
whom it was originally intended, had refused to it all further
subsidies.
We find, therefore, that on July 17, 1862, the date of the
joint resolution of Congress, under which the plaintiffs in error
make their claim, the United States had no title to the "Stevens
Battery;" but that the property in it had continued in! Robert
L. Stevens until his death, and passed, by his will, to Edwin
A. Stevens, as residuary legatee. It follows that it did not
pass to the heirs-at-law of Robert L. Stevens by virtue of the
joint resolution.
It is urged, in argument, that, if the right to the vessel
itself did not pass, then the joint resolution must be construed
as a transfer to the heirs of Robert L. Stevens of the right of
action of the United States to recover against his estate damages for his non-performance of his contract, together with the
securities, by way of mortgage and lien, it held as indemnity.
We see no ground for a construction that leads to so remarkable a result. The plain meaning of the resolution is limited
to a relinquishment on the part of the United States of any
interest it might be supposed to have in the vessel, in which
the heirs of Robert L. Stevens are mentioned, probably, be-

Oct. 1882.]

PATTERSON V. LYNDE.

cause it was with him that the building contract was made;
and if it could operate at all as a release, would be to them, for
the benefit of those who, by law, had become his successors in
the title; and that release would necessarily convey with it, as
an incident, an extinguishment of the obligation of the contract for construction, and all the securities taken for its performance. It was in effect, and was doubtless intended as, a
declaration, on the part of the United States, for the benefit of
whom it might concern, of its entire abandonment of all further connection with the battery and the contract for its conatruction. The subsequent assent on the part of Congress to
its acceptance by the State of New Jersey, as a bequest from
Edwin A. Stevens, while it could not operate to affect any
rights vested in the interval, is, at least, a legislative interpretation of its previous release. This resolution expressly recites
that Edwin A. Stevens was the owner of the battery in his
lifetime, and is scarcely more explicit in the recognition of his
title than was the conduct of all the parties, including the
present plaintiffs in error.
We are of opinion, for the reasons stated, that there is no
error in the decree complained of, and it is accordingly
Affirmed.

PATTERSON v. LYN~w.
The creditor of a corporation organized under the general laws of Oregon cannot, to recover his debt against it, enforce, by an action at law, the liability of
a stockholder upon an unpaid subscription to its capital stock.

E orRto the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
Patterson, a judgment creditor of a mining company, organized under the general laws of Oregon "in relation to the
formation of private corporations," brought this action against
Lynde to enforce his liability to the company upon an unpaid
stock subscription, and thus sought to apply Lynde's indebtedness to the payment of the judgment.

