PHENIX INS. Co. v. DOSTER.

Pc(EWxI

INSURANCE COrpANy

[Sup. Gt.

v. DoSTER.

1. A case should not be withdrawn from the jury, unless the facts are undisputed,
or the testimony is of such a conclusive character that a verdict in conflict
therewith would be set aside.
2. Circumstances stated which estop a mutual life insurance company from setting up that the policy sued on was forfeited by the non-payment ad diem
of the stipulated annual premium. Insurance Company v. Norton, 96 U. S.
234, and Insurance Company v. Eggleston, id. 572, approved.
3. Where that premium is, by the contract, subject to a deduction equal in
amount to the dividends to which the assured is entitled, it is the duty of
the company to give him such notice of that amount, that he may, in due
time, pay or tender the balance of the premium.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. H. B. Barnard for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. J hn T. Lynn and Mr. Frank Doster for the defendant
in error.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error from a judgment for the amount of a
policy of insurance upon the life of Jackson Riddle, issued on
the twentieth day of September, 1871, by the Phcenix Mutual
Life Insurance Company of Hartford, Connecticut.
The policy purports to have been issued in consideration as
well of the representations made in the application for insurance, as of the payment by the wife and children of the insured
(the payees named in the policy) of the sum of $215, and the
annual payment of a like amount on or before the twentieth
day of September in every year during its continuance. It contains a stipulation that if the premium be not paid at the office
of the company in Hartford, or to some agent of the company
producing a receipt signed by the president or secretary, on or
before the day of its maturity, then, in every such case, the
company shall not be liable for any part of the sum insured,
and the policy shall cease and determine, all previous payments
being forfeited to the company. The policy is upon the halfnote plan, and it is part of the contract that the dividends set
apart to the insured be applied in the discharge, pro tanto, of

Oct. 1882.]

Pi(E,IX INS. Co. v. DOSTER.

annual premiums. The secretary of the company, in his evidence, states that under the half-note plan the insured is permitted to discharge one-half of the first four premiums by
notes (the interest thereon to be paid in advance), and upon
the fifth and subsequent payments, to have his dividends, if
aiy, applied in reduction of the premium. It was in proof
that prior to the maturity of the respective premiums, payable
on the twentieth days of September, 1872, 1873, and 1874, the
company's general agent sent to the insured, at his residence
in Monticello, Ill., printed notices showing when the premium
became due, the amount of cash to be paid, the interest on the
notes given under the half-note plan, and the amount for which
an additional note, under that plan, was required. Prior to
the 20th of September, 1875, - when the fifth annual premium
was due, - the notice to the insured stated the amount of dividends to be applied in reduction of that premium, the interest
to be paid in advance upon the notes previously executed, and
the sum to be paid in cash.
The amounts due in the years 1872, 1873, 1874, and 1875
were paid, but not until the expiration of several - in some
instances ten or more -days after the time fixed by the policy. They were received, in each instance, so far as the record
discloses, without objection upon the part of the company or
its agents.
On the 6th of October, 1876, the insured lost his life in a
railroad collision, leaving unpaid the premium due on the twentieth day of September of that year. His residence and postoffice, for more than a year prior to his death, had been atOxford, Ind. Of his removal to that place the general agent of
the company at Chicago was distinctly informed, as the evidence tended to show, as early as October, 1875. The letter
from that office acknowledging the receipt of the premium due
on 20th September, 1875 (but not paid until about Oct. 9,
of that year), was addressed to the insured, at his new resiOn the fourth day of October,
dence in Oxford, Ind.
1876,-fourteen days after the premium for that year was
due,- there was sent from the office of the company's general
agent at Chicago, addressed, by mistake, to the insured at
Fowler, Ind., a notice similar to that given in 1875. This

PHMENIX INS.

Co. v.

DOSTER.

[Sup. Ct.

notice, the evidence tended to show, was received from the
post-office at Fowler, Ind. (where the father never resided),
by a son of the insured, on the day the latter was killed, and a
few hours only before his death. There was also proof that
the insured, before leaving his home, at Oxford, Ind., made
arrangements to pay the amount required in that year as soon
as the customary notice, showing the sum to be paid, was received. On the ninth day of October, 1876, the amount due
was, in behalf of the payees, tendered to the company's general agent at Chicago. He declined to receive it, upon the
ground that the policy lapsed by reason of the non-payment of
the premium, at maturity, in the lifetime of the insured.
Upon the part of the payees it is contended that the company waived strict compliance with the provision making the
continuance of the policy dependent upon the payment of the
annual premium on the day named therein; and that, in view
of the settled course of business between the company and its
agents on one side and the insured on the other, it is estopped
to rely upon the non-payment of the last premium, at the day,
as working a forfeiture of the policy.
The facts and circumstances established by the testimony
are sufficiently indicated in the charge of the court, to certain
parts of which, to be presently examined, the company objected. It is enough to say that the testimony was ample to
enable each party to go to the jury upon the substantial issues
in the case. The motion, at the close of the plaintiff's evidence, for a peremptory instruction for the company was
properly denied. It could not have been allowed, without
usurpation, upon the part of the court, of the functions of the
jury. Where a cause fairly depends upon the effect or weight
of testimony, it is one for the consideration and determination
of the jury, under proper directions as to the principles of law
involved. It should never be withdrawn from them, unless
the testimony be of such a conclusive character as to compel
the court, in the exercise of a sound judicial discretion, to set
aside a verdict returned in opposition to it. Greenleaf v.
Birth, 9 Pet. 292; United States v. Laub, 12 id. 1; Bank of
the Mi etropolis v. Guttschlik, 14 id. 19; Bevans v. United
States, 13 Wall. 56; Hendrick v. Lindsay, 93 U. S. 143.

Oct. 1882.]

PHCENIX INS. Co. v. DOSTER.

We now proceed to an examination of those parts of the
charge which were made the subject of exceptions by the
company.
After saying that the policy, with the application, contained
the agreement of the parties; that the clause providing for a
forfeiture for non-payment of the premium at maturity, and
declaring the want of authority in agents either to receive premiums after the time fixed for their payment, or to waive forfeitures, constituted a part of the contract, binding upon both
parties unless waived or modified by the company or by its
agent thereunto authorized; also, that strict performance of
the forfeiture provision could be waived by the company, either
expressly or by implication, - the court proceeded to lay down
the rules by which the jury should be guided in determining
whether there was such waiver. It said, in substance, that if
the conduct of the company in its dealings with the insured
and others similarly situated had been such as to induce a
belief on his part that so much of the contract as provides for
a forfeiture, if the premium be not paid at the day, would not
be enforced if payment were made within a reasonable period
thereafter, the company ought not, in common justice, to be
permitted to allege such forfeiture against one who acted upon
that belief, and subsequently made or tendered the payment;
and that if the acts creating such belief were done by the agent
and were subsequently approved by the company, either expressly, or by receiving and retaining the premiums, with full
knowledge of the circumstances, the same consequences should
follow.
The court further told the jury, in substance, that if they
found from the evidence that the company was in the habit
of sending renewal receipts for the premium on this policy to
its local agent, at the place of residence of the insured, duly
signed by the president and secretary of the company, leaving
their use subject entirely to the judgment of that agent, and
the latter was accustomed to receive the premiums from the
insured, without objection, several days after the same became
due, and to issue the receipt therefor, and the home company
or the managing agents or-officers had full knowledge of such
practice, and received from its agent, and retained, the preVOL. XVi.

3

PHmNIX INS.

Co. v.

DOSTER.

[Sup. Ct.

miums so paid, the insured had a right to believe that the
company waived a strict compliance, and they might find that
there was a waiver by the company of the forfeiting clause of
the policy ; and if the insured, relying on such practice, within
a reasonable or the usual time, paid or offered to pay the premium after the day the same was due, the policy remained in
full force and effect, and the company was liable thereon, notwithstanding the insured had in the mean time died.
The objection of the company to these parts of the charge
was overruled, and an exception taken. The objection would
have more weight had the charge ended with these remarks,
because in such a presentation of the case the court would
have placed before the jury only one side of the issues to which
it directed attention. But the charge is not liable to such
criticism, since the court, in the same connection, instructed
the jury that if the company had not authorized its local agent,
to whom the renewal receipts were sent, to extend the time for
payment of the premium beyond the day named in the policy,
nor had habitually accepted from the insured through its agent
the premiums on the policy after the same became due, with
full knowledge that the same were so paid after due and the
receipt issued by its agent, then that they could not find that
the company had, either expressly or by implication, waived
a strict compliance with the terms of the policy in reference
to payment of the premiums, and the policy became forfeited
according to its terms.
It seems to the court that the charge was as favorable to the
company as it could have demanded. It was, as to its essential parts, in substantial harmony with recent decisions of this
court. In Insurance Company v. Norton, 96 U. S. 234, we said,
in reference to a policy, similar to the one here in suit, that
the company was not bound to act upon the declaration that
its agents bad no power to make agreements or waive forfeitures, but might, at any time, at its option, give them such
power; that the declaration was tantamount to a notice to
the insured, which the company could waive and disregard at
pleasure. "In either case," said the court, ' ; both with regard
to the forfeiture and to the powers of its agents, a waiver of
the stipulation or notice would not be repugnant to the written

Oct. 1882.]

OPHSNIX INS. Co. v. DOSTER.

agreement, because it would only be the exercise of an option
which the agreement left in it. And whether it did exercise
such option or not, was a fact provable by parol evidence, as
well as by writing, for the obvious reason that it could be done
without writing." In the same case it was said that, although
in life insurance time of payment was material, and could not
be extended against the assent of the company, where such
assent Was given, the court should be liberal in construing the
transaction in favor of avoiding a forfeiture. And in Insurance
Company v. Eggleston, id. 572, it was said, that the courts are
always prompt to seize hold of any circumstances that indicate
an election to waive a forfeiture, or an agreement to do so on
which the party has relied and acted. Consequently, said the
court, speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley: "Any agreement,
declaration, or course of action, on the part of an insurance
company, which leads a party insured honestly to believe that
by conforming thereto a forfeiture of his policy will not be incurred, followed by due conformity on his part, will and ought
to estop the company from insisting upon the forfeiture, though
it might be claimed under the express letter of the contract.
The company is thereby estopped from enforcing the forfeiture.
The representations, declaration, or acts of an agent, contrary
to the terms of the policy, of course, will not be sufficient, unless sanctioned by the company itself. Insurance Company v.
Alowry, 96 U. S. 544. But when the latter has, by its course
of action, ratified such declarations, representations, or acts, the
case is very different." These authorities abundantly sustain
the rulings in this case to which reference has been made.
The court below then passed to an examination of the remaining ground relied "on as excusing the non-payment of
the last premium on the day it fell due; viz., the failure of the
company to give the insured seasonable notice of the amount
of dividends to be applied in reduction of the premium.
After stating that by the terms of the policy the premiums
could be paid either at the home office or to an agent of the
company, producing the proper receipt, and that by the terms
of the application, which was the basis of the contract of insurance, the annual dividends due the insured could be applied
in discharge of premiums, the court instructed the jury that if

PHNIX INS.

Co. v.

DOSTER.

[Sup. CL.

they found from the evidence that it had been the invariable
custom of the company to transmit to the insured, by mail or
by its local agent, a statement of the amount of the premium
due, after deducting the dividend, with a notice of the time
when, the place where, and the person to whom, the premium
could be paid, then the insured had good reason to expect and
rely on such statement, and notice being sent to him ; and that
if the insurance company, by its managing agent, had notice
of the post-office address of the insured before the usual time
of sending out notice, but failed and neglected to transmit such
statement and notice to the insured at his post-office address
until the fourth day of October, and the same did not reach
him or the payees in the policy until October Qtb, and that the
insured or payees were ready and waiting to pay said premium
when the notice and statement should be received, and by
reason of such failure of the company to send the notice and
statement, and by reason of that alone, the premium due in
September, 1876,,was not promptly paid; and that in a reasonable time thereafter, to wit, on Monday, the ninth day of
October, 1876, the payees tendered the company at Chicago
the full amount of the premium due, then the policy did not
lapse or become forfeited, notwithstanding the premium was
not paid on the day named in the policy, and in the lifetime
of the insured.
To that part of the charge the company excepted. In the
same immediate connection the court below, it may be observed,
further instructed the jury that if it had not been the uniform
custom of the company to send the insured such notice and
statement at or about the time the premium became due, or if
the company or managing agent had liot been notified of the
change of the post-office address of the insured until about the
fourth day of October, or that the company had in reality sent
the notice, by mail or otherwise, at a prior date, properly addressed to the insured, then it was not the fault of the company
that the insured was not notified, and the want of such notice
would not excuse him from making payment at the day, and
the. policy would, consequently, become forfeited.
We are of opinion that these propositions are substantially
correct. Nor do we perceive that the rulings of the court below

Ot. 1882.]

PH(ENIX INS.

Co. v.

DOSTER.

are in conflict with our decision in Thornpson v. Insurance Company, 104 U. S. 252. In that case it appeared that the insured,
for a part of an annual premium, had given a note containing
the special provision that in the event of the non-payment of
the note at maturity the policy should be void. The note was
not paid at maturity, nor was payment ever tendered, while
the insured was alive nor at any time after his death, by or in
behalf of the payees in the policy. To pleas setting up these
facts replications were filed, in which it was attempted to excuse the failure to make due tender of the amount of the note
upon the ground that it was the usage and custom of the company, practised with the insured and others, as well before as
after the making of the note, not to demand punctual payment
at the day, but to give thirty days of grace; further, that it
had been its uniform custom and usage, in advance of the
maturity of notes, to give notice of the day of payment, whereas
no such notice was given to Thompson, and thereby, it was
alleged, he was put off his guard and misled as to the time of
payment. It was held that the failure to tender the amount
due, within the period named in the replication, was, in every
view, fatal to the entire case set up by the payees in the policy.
"A valid excuse for not paying promptly on the day is," said
the court, "a different thing from an excuse for not paying at
all." Touching the alleged failure of the company, in conformity with its uniform practice, to give notice of the day of
payment, it was said that the insured knew, or was bound to
know, when his premiums became due, and that the company
was under no obligation to give him notice, nor did it assume
any responsibility by giving notice on previous occasiolis.
The present case has features which plainly distinguish it
from the Thompson case. In the former, there was a tender
of the premium within a few days after the death of the insured, and as soon as the payees ascertained the sum required
to be paid. In the latter, the amount to be paid was fixed. It
was not liable to be reduced on account of dividends or for any
other reason, and the insured, therefore, knew the exact amount
to be paid in order to prevent a forfeiture of the policy. Now,
although the policy issued upon Riddle's life required payment
annually of a specific sum as a premium, that stipulation must

PHENIX INS.

Co. v. DOSTER.

[Sup. Ct.

be construed in connection with the agreement set out in the
application, that the premium might be discharged pro tanto
by such dividends as were allowed to the insured from time to
time. Whether the company, in any particular year, declared
dividends, and what amount was available in reduction of the
premium, were facts known, in the first instance, only to the
company, which had full control of the matter of 'dividends.
It certainly was not contemplated that the insured should
every year make application, either at the home office, or at
the office of its general agent in Chicago, in order to ascertain
the amount of dividends.
The understanding between the
parties upon this subject is, in part, shown by the practice of
the company. Independently of that circumstance, and waiving any determination of the question whether the forfeiture
was not absolutely waived by the act of the general agent, in
sending noticeto the insured after the day fixed for the payment of the premium due Sept. 20, 1876, it was, we think, the
company's duty, under any fair interpretation of its contract,
having received information as to the post-office of the insured,
to give seasonable notice of the amount of dividends, and thereby
inform him as to the cash to be paid in order to keep alive the
policy. It did, as we have seen, give such notice in 1875, and
received payment of the amount due after the date fixed in the
policy. Within a reasonable time after the notice for 1876
came, in due course of mail, to the hands of one of the payees,
a tender of the amount was made to the general agent at Chicago. No such features were disclosed in the Thompson case,
and they are, as we think, sufficient not only to distinguish the
present case from that one, but to authorize the instructions of
which the company complains.
The assignments of error bring to our attention numerous
exceptions taken by the company to the admission of evidence,
and to the refusal to give instructions asked in its behalf. We
deem it unnecessary to consider them in detail. So far as they
affect the substantial rights of the parties, they are disposed of
by what has been said touching the charge of the court upon
the essential questions in the case.
Judgment affirmed.

