EQUATOR 00. V. HALL.

[Sup. Ot.

EQUATOR ComPANY v. HALL.
1. When judgment is rendered against either party to an action for the recovery
of real property in Colorado, he is, without showing cause therefor, entitled, by a provision of the Code of Civil Procedure of the State, to one
new trial.
2. That provision is binding on the courts of the United States sitting in Colorado.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Colorado.
This was an action brought by George W. Hall and Charles
H. Marshall, against the Equator Mining and Smelting Company, to recover possession of a silver mine in Colorado. At
the December Term, 1878, of the court below the case was, by
agreement of the parties, submitted to the judge, who rendered a finding and a judgment in favor of the defendant.
Thereupon the plaintiffs paid the costs of the suit up to that
time, and under the provisions of sect. 254 of the Code of
Civil Procedure of that State obtained a new trial without
showing any cause. At the May Term, 1879, the case was
submitted to a jury, and a verdict returned for the plaintiffs,
on which judgment was entered on the 15th of July. The
defendant then, without showing cause, moved for a new trial,
which was claimed to be a matter of right under the same
section. The judges were divided in opinion as to whether this
new trial should be granted, and they certified that question
to this court.
The section of the code of Colorado under which this motion was made is as follows: "Whenever judgment shall be rendered against either party
under the provisions of this chapter, it shall be lawful for the party
against whom such judgment is rendered, his heirs or assigns, at
any time before the first day of the next succeeding term, to pay
all costs recovered thereby, and, upon application of the party
against whom the same was rendered, his heirs or assigns, the
court shall vacate such judgment and grant a new trial in such
case; but neither party shall have but one new trial in any case,
as of right, without showing cause. And after such judgment is

Oct. 1882.]

EQUATOR

Co. v.

HALL.

vacated, the cause shall stand for trial the same as though it had'
never been tried."
Mr. Henry Z. Teller for the plaintiff in error.
There was no opposing counsel.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Two questions are presented for our consideration in reviewing the action of the Circuit Court on this motion for a new
trial. The first is, whether the Circuit Court of the United
States sitting in Colorado is to be governed by the statute of
that State on this subject.
At the common law, the fiction in an action of ejeetment,
by which John Doe and Richard Roe were made respectively
the plaintiff and the defendant, permitted any number of trials
after verdict and judgment between the same parties in interest
on the same question of title, by the use of other fictitious
names, and other allegations of demise, entry, and ouster.
The evil of this want of conclusiveness in the result of this
form of action led to the interposition of a court of equity, in
which, after repeated verdicts and judgments in favor of the
same party and upon the same title, that court would enjoin
the unsuccessful party from further disturbance of the one who
had recovered these judgments.
This form of action, with its inconclusive results, would be
the law in Colorado for the recovery of the possession of real
estate, but for the statutes of that State, of which sect. 254 of
the Code of Civil Procedure is a part. The framers of those
statutes, in abolishing the old common-law action of ejectment
with its accompanying evils, and in substituting an action
between the real parties, plaintiff and defendant, found it
necessary to provide a rule on the subject of new trials in
actions concerning the titles of land.
A title to real estate has, under the traditions of the conmon law, been held, in all the States where that law prevailed,
to be too important, we might almost say too sacred, to be concluded forever by the result of one action between the contesting
parties. Hence, those States which, by abolishing the fictions
of the action at the common law, and substituting a direct suit

EQUATOR

Co. v.

HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

between the parties actually claiming under conflicting titles,
which, according to the nature of this 'new proceeding, would
end in a judgment concluding both parties, have found it
necessary to provide for new trials to such extent as each
State legislature has thought sound policy to require. These
provisions for new trials in actions of ejectment are not the
same in all the States, but it is believed that almost all
of them which have abolished the common-law action have
made provision for one or more new trials as a matter of
right.
We are of opinion that when an action of ejectment is tried
in a Circuit Court of the United States according to the statutory mode of proceeding, that court is governed by the provisions concerning new trials as it is by the other provisions
of the State statute. There is no reason why the Federal
court should disregard one of the rules by which the State
legislature has guarded the transfer of the possession and title
Mliles v. Caldwell,
to real estate within its jurisdiction.
2 Wall. 35.
As regards the construction of the statute under consideration, which is the second question, while it is not clear that
the language of the statute, that "neither party shall have but
one new trial in any case as of right without showing cause,"
gives to each party at least one new trial if he demands it, we
are of opinion, on reflection, that such was the intention of the
framers of the code. This conclusion is fortified by a comparison of the previous enactments of the Colorado legislature with
this its last expression on the subject. By the previous law it
was very clear that only one new trial was demandable as a
matter of right in an action of ejectment, and the change of
language adopted in the code of 1877 is indicative of intentional change in that respect,- a change which can only mean
that each party against whom in turn a verdict may be rendered shall have a right to one new trial. Apart from this
absolute right of the parties, the court may grant another trial
upon reasonable grounds being shown.
These views require that the question whether the defendant is entitled to have the judgment of the court below vacated
and a new trial in said cause without further showing, should

Oct. 1882.]

COTTON-TIE Co. v. SIMMONS.

be answered in the affirmative, and dispense with the necessity
of examining into the assignment of errors growing out of the
trial before the jury.
Judgment reversed with directions to grant a new trial.

CoT oN-TiE ComPArNY v. SD-roNs.
The owner of patents for improvements in metallic cotton-bale ties, each tie consisting of a buckle and a band, granted no license to manufacture the ties, but
supplied the market with them, the words, "Licensed to use once only," being
stamped in the metal of the buckle. After the bands had been severed at the
cotton-mill, A., who bought them and the buckles as scrap-iron, rolled and
straightened the pieces of the bands, and riveted together their ends. He then
cut them into proper lengths and sold them with the buckles, to be used as
ties, nothing having been done to the buckles. Held, that A. thereby infringed the patents.
Quir'e, Would A.'s sale of the buckle, apart from the band, be an infringement
of the patents.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Rhode Island.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Hr. Samuel A. Duncan for the appellants.
Mr. Benjamin P. Thurston for the appellees.
Mn. JUSTiCE BLATOHFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal by the plaintiffs in a suit in equity from a
decree dismissing the bill of complaint. The suit was brought
for the infringement of three several letters-patent, -No. 19,490,
granted to Frederic Cook, March 2, 1858, for an "improvement
in metallic ties for cotton-bales," and extended for seven years
from March 2, 1872; reissued letters-patent No. 5333, granted
to James J. McComb, as assignee of George Brodie, March 25,
1873, for an "improvement in cotton-bale ties" (the original
patent having been granted to Brodie, as inventor, March 22,
1859, and reissued to him April 27, 1869, and extended for
seven years from March 22, 1873); and No. 31,252, granted
to J. J. McComb, Jan. 29, 1861, for an "improvement in iron

