Oct. 1882.]

PACE V. ALABAMA.

all the cases referred to, this court has been guided. The writ
of error is accordingly
Dismissedfor want
of jurisdiction.
NoTr. - Plainview v. Marshall, error to the same court, was submitted at the
same time and by the counsel who argued the preceding case. MR.JUSTICE MATrTHEWs, who delivered the opinion of the court, remarked, that the two cases did

not differ in any material respect, the value of the matter in dispute in each being less than $5,000. For the same reasons the writ of error in this case was
Dismissed.

PACE v. ALABAMA.
Section 4189 of the Code of Alabama, prohibiting a white person and a negro
from living with each other in adultery or fornication, is not in conflict with
the Constitution of the United States, although it prescribes penalties more
severe than those to which the parties would be subject, were they of the
same race and color.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama.
Section 4184 of the Code of Alabama provides that "if any
man and woman live together in adultery or fornication, each
of them must, on the first conviction of the offence, be fined
not less than one hundred dollars, and may also be imprisoned
in the county jail or sentenced to hard labor for the county for
not more than six months. On the second conviction for the
offence, with the same person, the offender must be fined not
less than three hundred dollars, and may be imprisoned in the
county jail, or sentenced to hard labor for the county for not
more than twelve months; and for a third or any subsequent
conviction with the same person, must be imprisoned in the
penitentiary, or sentenced to hard labor for the county for two
years."
Section 4189 of the same code declares that "if any white
person and any negro, or the descendant of any negro to the
third generation, inclusive, though one ancestor of each generation was a white person, intermarry or live in adultery or fornication with each other, each of them must, on,conviction, be
imprisoned in the penitentiary or sentenced to hard labor for
the county for not less than two nor more than seven years."

