Oct. 1882.]

BACON v. RIVES.

sonable time to erect the buildings which were contemplated.
If he could, the Constitution and the statutes would have no
other effect than as evidence to show that the State had deliberately refused to perform.
It follows that the case presents no question which can be
considered here, and the motion to dismiss is
Granted.

BAcoN v. RIvEs.
1. Where the complainants are citizens of the State in a court whereof the suit
was brought, and the defendant, who is the real party to the controversy,
and against whom relief is sought, is a citizen of another State, his right to
remove the suit to the Circuit Court of the United States cannnot be defeated upon the ground that the citizenship of another defendant who is a
stranger to that controversy, and who occupies substantially the position of
a mere garnishee, is the same as that of the complainants.
2. A suit upon a contract made and to be performed in another State or country, by a person who then resided there, cannot be maintained in Virginia,
after the right of action thereon is barred by the laws of such State or
country.
3. In the latter part of the year 1863, at the instance of A., then a resident of
Texas, B., a resident of Virginia, forwarded to him money in trust to invest,
pursuant to specific instructions. A., in 1865, reported that he had invested
the fund in the transportation of cotton, but did not state what profits had
accrued therefrom. No further report was made by him. In 1875, B., on
discovering where A. was, filed a bill against him to compel a discovery
and an accounting, which, upon demurrer, was dismissed upon the ground
that the suit was barred by the Statute of Limitations of both States.
field, that in view of the case made by the bill, and of the subsisting trust,
the existence of which is admitted by the demurrer, B. is entitled to a discovery of the disposition made of the money, and that the limitation does
not commence running until the trust is closed, or until A., with the knowledge of B., disavowed the trust or held adversely to his claim.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Virginia.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. William S. Boyall and Mr-. Joseph Bryan for the appellants.
1r. Lgbert B. Watson for the appellees.

BACON V. RIVES.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JUSTICE HA.Ri.ax delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity. The complainants are John L.
Bacon and H. E. C. Baskerville, partners as Bacon & Baskerville; John Stewart, Robert Ould, Robert H. Maury, and
Isaac H. Carrington, trustees for the benefit of the creditors
of William H. Macfarland, deceased, by virtue of a deed dated
Oct. 20, 1870; John W. Wright, sheriff of the city of Richmond, and, as such, administrator of said Macfarland, - all
citizens of Virginia.
The defendants are George C. Rives, a citizen of Texas, in
his own right and as administrator with the will annexed of
George Rives, deceased; J. Henry Rives, a citizen of Virginia,
executor of George Rives, deceased; and Alfred L. Rives, a
citizen of Alabama, executor of William C. Rives, deceased.
The suit was commenced, on the 22d of July, 1875, in the
Circuit Court of Albemarle County, Virginia, and was thence
removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western'District of Virginia, upon the petition of George C.
Rives, in which the defendant, Alfred L. Rives, executor of
Williams C. Rives, united. In the latter court, a demurrer to
the bill was interposed by George C. Rives, upon the ground
that the suit was barred by the Statute of Limitations both of
Texas and Virginia. The demurrer was sustained, and the bill
dismissed. The complainants thereupon appealed.
The case made by the bill is, substantially, as follows: In the summer of the year 1863, Bacon & Baskerville, John
Stewart, Robert H. Maury, William H. Macfarland, and William C. Rives, uncle of the defendant George C. Rives, sent
$131,000 in " Confederate States treasury notes" - the currency, at that time, of Virginia, Louisiana, and Texas -to
James H. Stevens, then in Monroe, La., with instructions
to invest or expend the same in the purchase of cotton on
plantations in Louisiana and Texas, to remain thereon until
the civil war was ended. Of that sum Bacon & Baskerville
owned $48,000, Stewart $48,000, Maury $10,000, Macfarland
•$65,000, and William C. Rives $20,000. Subsequently, however, Bacon & Baskerville became the owner of $80,000, and
Stewart of $16,000, the interest of the other parties in the
residue remaining the same as at the outset. The funds were

Oct. 1882.]

BACON V. RIVES.

sent to Stevens by Bacon & Baskerville, by whom all instructions were given and negotiations conducted. The proceeds
of the investment, it was understood, were to be divided
among the parties in proportion to their respective interests.
About the 3d of September, 1863, Stevens died in Louisiana,
en route to Texas, without having invested any of the funds.
Shortly thereafter the complainants were notified by his widow
that she held the $131,000 subject to their order. The defendant, George 0. Rives, wrote to the same effect to his cousin,
Alfred L. Rives, son and executor of William C. Rives.
Moved by the advice and" solicitation of William C. Rives, as
well as by the encouraging character of certain letters written
by George C. Rives to Alfred L. Rives, and exhibited to complainants, and influenced especially by the declaration of the
former in his letter, that if the money was turned over to him
he would act for the parties under their instructions, and save
it by investing it in city property in Austin, Texas, or in
property which he represented would pay well, and could be
readily sold at any time, the complainants made and appointedaGeorge C. Rives their agent in the room and stead of
Stevens. They consequently ordered and directed the funds
in the hands of Mrs. Stevens to be paid to him, and towards
the close of the year 1863, or early in 1864, he received them as
agent and for the benefit of the complainants, to be invested in
conformity with specific instructions given by Bacon & Baskerville, the managers and business negotiators of the enterprise,
with the concurrence of the joint owners of the funds, viz.:
1. To invest them in cotton on plantations in Texas, to remain thereon until the war ended, that being the first and chief
object of the whole venture. 2. If that could not be done,
then to invest them in ranch property, meaning lands in
Texas with cattle and horses thereon. 3. If that could not
be done, then to invest them in town lots in Austin.
Nothing was heard from George C. Rives upon the subject
of the proposed investment until, in response to a letter from
Bacon & Baskerville, under date of Jan. 27, 1865, he wrote,
under date of April 5, following, that he had invested the
funds in the transportation of cotton under articles of partnerahip to continue during the war, and that the business was

BACON V. RIVES.

[Sup. Ct.

under the management of an active partner, who gave his
whole time and attention to it; but he did not state who the
active partner was, nor how much of the funds he had so invested, nor what property he had purchased therewith, nor
what proceeds, if any, had accrued from the investment. His
departures from the instructions were not approved by the
complainants, and they hoped, notwithstanding their orders
had been disregarded, that a fair and honest return would be
made by him. After the war ended, and after the expiration
of eighteen months without any report or statement from him,
Bacon & Baskerville, in November, 1866, wrote to him at
Austin, Texas, asking an account of his agency, to which letter
no reply was made. On the 26th of January, 1867, they again
wrote to him at Austin, asking such account; but no reply to
that letter was received. Complainants, consequently, "almost
reached the conclusion that Rives had either died or left the
country." But in March, 1875, learning accidentally that he
was not only living, but for several years then past had visited
Virginia each summer, they again wrote to him asking an account of his agency. No reply came to that letter. -At the
same time they wrote, as they had before done, to Alfred L.
Rives, asking information as to George C. Rives; but no reply
was received, nor were the letters written to the latter ever
returned to the writers through the dead-letter office.
As soon as possible after learning the whereabouts of George
C. Rives, the complainants instituted this suit, charging that
his retention of the whole proceeds of the money intrusted to
h{im, his silence for nearly ten years, and his failure to render
any account, arose from an intention to defraud them out of it,
or the proceeds of its investment.
The bill further shows that George Rives died in Virginia
in 1874, possessed of a large estate, real and personal, in
which, by his will, George C. Rives, his son, had a large interest, and that J. Henry Rives and Charles Edward Rives
qualified as his executors. The complainants ask that the
interest of George C. Rives in that estate, in whatever form,
be attached in the hands of the executors to pay whatever
may be shown to be due them. Attachments were served
upon the executors, and levied upon that interest. It is also

Oct. 1882.]

BACON

v.

RIVES.

averred that William C. Rives has died, and that Alfred L.
Rives is his executor; that aefarland died in 1873, having
executed, on the 29th of October, 1870, a deed conveying all
his property of every kind, in possession or in action, to Robert Ould and Isaac H. Carrington, trustees for the benefit of
his creditors; and as no administration was had upon his estate,
the same was committed to the defendant Wright, sheriff of
the city of Richmond. It may be stated in this connection
that, after the cause was removed from the State court, Charles
Edward Rives, an original defendant, died, and George C.
Rives became administrator de bonis non with the will annexed
of George Rives.
The bill prays that the defendants be required to make, upon
oath, full, true, and complete answers to all the allegations of
the bill; and that George C. Rives be required to render a full
and complete account of all his actings and doings as agent
of complainants, and show what disposition or investment he
made of the funds intrusted to him, and what were the proceeds
of such investment; and if no investment was made according to instructions, nor any other investment of which complainants may choose to avail themselves, that he be required
to pay the value of the funds intrusted to him as agent, with
lawful interest thereon.
Without waiving a full answer under oath to the bill, the
complainants ask that George C. Rives be required to answer
the several special interrogatories embodied therein, the object
of which is to obtain from him information as to whether be
had received the $131,000 under an engagement, as agent,
to invest it in the mode set out in the bill; whether he
had so invested it or not, -if
not, why not; if yes, in what
kind of property he had invested, and what disposition had
been made of it or of its proceeds; and whether, after the close
of the war, he did not have in his possession property purchased, in whole or in part, with the proceeds of the investment; if so, of what did it consist, and what has been done
with it.
There was also a prayer for such other and further relief as
equity and justice required. - Th'is stood the suit when removed from the State court.

BACON v. RIvES.

[Sup. C .

J. Henry Rives, a citizen of Virginia, having been made a
defendant, in his capacity as one of the executors of George
Rives, it is contended that the suit was not removable into the
Circuit Court of the United States. This position cannot be
successfully maintained. Without giving all of the reasons
which may be assigned in support of the light of removal, it is
sufficient to say that he and Charles Edward Rives, executors
of George Rives, had no interest in the question whether the
complainants have or not a cause of action against George C.
Rives on account of the matters set out in the pleadings.
They were neither necessary nor indispensable parties to the
issue between the complainants and the principal defendant.
It was of no moment to them whether the one or the other
side in that controversy succeeded. It is true that the attachment which the complainants, before the removal of the suit,
sued out against George C. Rives was served upon the executors, and levied upon his interest in the estate of his father.
But they were made defendants, not because of any connection they had with the main controversy, but to the end that
his interest in that estate might be reached and held, subject
to such final decree as the complainants might obtain against
him. Though made, formally, defendants, they occupied, substantially, the position of mere garnishees. Their citizenship
was, consequently, immaterial. The necessary parties, on the
respective sides of the controversy which is the foundation of
the litigation, being citizens of different States, the relation of
the executors to the suit was properly regarded as merely incidental, arising from the necessity of preserving the means
whereby the complainants might, if successful in this suit,
obtain satisfaction of their demands against George C. Rives.
The remaining question to be considered relates to the defence of the Statute of Limitations presented by the demurrer
to the bill. The contention of the defendant is that the cause
of action, if any, existed as far back as the close of the late
civil war; that in Virginia and Texas the running of limitation was suspended by statute, in the former from some time
in April, 1861, until Jan. 1, 1869, and in the latter from some
time in 1861 umtil March 30, 1870; that by the laws of Texas
two years was the limitation to suits on oral, and four years to

Oct. 1882.]

BACON v. RIVES.

- 105

suits on written contracts, while the limitation in Virginia to
such suits as the present one was five years; consequently,
excluding from the computation of time the periods of the suspension of the statute in the respective States, the plaintiffs'
cause of action was barred. The defendant further insists tha,
the law of Texas governs by reason of that provision in the
code of Virginia which declares that "upon a contract which
was made and was to be performed in another State or country, by a person who then resided therein, no action shall be
maintained after the light of action thereon is barred by the
laws of such State or country."
Code of Va., edit. 1873,
sect. 20, p. 1002.
In the view which the court takes of the case it is unnecessary now to determine whether reference must be had to the
law of the State where the suit is pending, or to that of the
State where the alleged contract was to be performed. We
are not satisfied that the cause of action, as set out in the
bill, was, at the commencement of the suit, barred by limitation as prescribed in either Texas or Virginia. The case,
as now presented, discloses- not, perhaps, one of those
technical trusts of which a court of equity has peculiar and
exclusive jurisdiction, but yet - a trust, arising out of express
agreement, under which the defendant, George 0. Rives, received from the complainants certain funds, which he undertook to invest in particular kinds of property, in conformity
with specific instructions given by those whom he represented.
His duty, under the law, although the agreement did not in
terms so declare, was, from time to time, as the circumstances
required, to inform those whom he represented of his acts, and,
upon completion of the trust, to render an account of all he
had done in the premises; or, if he elected not to execute the
trust, to surrender the property or its proceeds. He received
the funds, as has been seen, in the latter part of the year 1863,
or early in 1864. He undertook to invest them, if practicable,
in cotton on plantations in Texas, to remain thereon until the
civil war was concluded. Failing in that he was to invest in
ranch property, or lands in Texas, with cattle and horses
thereon ; failing in the latter, he was to invest in town lots in
Austin, in that State. He gave, so the bill avers, no informa-

BACON V. RIVES.

[Sup. at.

tion whatever of his acts until the spring of 1865, when, in
response to a letter from his principals, he wrote that he bad
invested the funds received by him in the transportation of
cotton, under articles of copartnership to continue during the
war, and that the business was under the management of an
active partner, who gave his whole time and attention to it.
Whether that arrangement involved a violation of the laws of
the United States in reference to the shipment of cotton from
the insurrectionary districts, does not now appear. But he
withheld the name of that partner, and did not inform his
principals of the result of that investment. From that time
forward the defendant failed to communicate with the complainants, or any of them, as to what, if anything, had been
accomplished in the execution of his trust. To letters making
inquiries, and which, in the present attitude of the case, we
may assume were received, no response was made.
Taking, then, the allegations of the bill to be true, as upon
demurrer we must do, the existence of the trust is clearly established; it is still open, or not wholly executed; it has never
been disclaimed by clear and 'unequivocal acts or words,
brought to the notice or knowledge of the complainants or
either of them; there has been no adverse holding of the original fund or of its proceeds ; consequently, the possession by
the defendant, George C. Rives, of the proceeds of the original
fund, if invested at all, may be deemed the possession of those
whom he undertook to represent. But it is suggested that
while the agreement did not prescribe any period within which
he was to make the investment, it was necessarily implied that
it was to be performed within a reasonable time; consequently,
it is argued, the statute would commence running after the
lapse of such reasonable time, or from the moment when complainants were entitled to enforce an accounting. Pillipsv.
Holman, 26 Tex. 276. To this it-may be replied that whether
the trustee was derelict in duty in not making the investment
within any particular period, depends upon the special facts of
the case. Having regard to all the circumstances, particularly
such as were connected with the disturbed condition of the
country for many years after the war closed, we cannot, upon
the case made by the bill, fix the date when the defendant

Oct;. 1882.1

BACON v. IIVES.

should, with reasonable diligence, have executed his trust, or
say that there has been, upon the part of complainants, such
delay as prevents them from applying to a court of equity for
relief. Being called upon to execute what, consistently with
the facts, as disclosed in the bill, appears to be a subsisting
trust, or if it has been, in whole or in part, executed, to disclose when and how it was so executed, he should not be permitted to take shelter behind a demurrer, which relies simply
upon the statutory limitation and confesses that he has kept
his eestuis que trust in ignorance of what it was his duty to
communicate. The complainants, it seems to the court, are
entitled, upon well-established principles of equity, to a discovery as to the disposition, if any, which has been made of
their property. Inquiry in that direction should not be cut
off, since, upon the showing made, it does not clearly appear
that the suit is barred by the Statute of Limitations. Unless
otherwise distinctly declared by the statute prescribing fixed
periods for the commencement of suits, the cause of action is
not, ordinarily, deemed to have accrued against, nor limitation
to commence running in favor of, the trustee of such a trust,
as the bill describes, until the trust is closed, or until the trustee, with the knowledge of the cestuis que trust, disavows the
trust, or holds adversely to their claim.
And such seems to be the doctrine of the Supreme Court of
Texas, by the laws of which State, the defendants insist, this
case is to be determined as to the question of limitation.
WM te v. Leavitt, 20 Tex. 703 ; Grumblesv. Grumbles, 17 id. 472.
In the first of these cases a recovery was sought by the plaintiff for the recovery of the value of certain goods consigned
for sale to the defendants therein, and which had never been
accounted for. The suit was not commenced until four years
after the goods came to the hands of the consignees for sale.
It was said by the court: "The proof shows that the goods
were held and disposed of by White & Co. in trust for Leavitt,
and there being no evidence that the trust was ever repudiated,
the Statute of Limitations [two years] did not run upon the
cause of action, as it has often been decided by this court."
It is also suggested that the bill concedes that the complainants were informed by defendant in the year 1865 that

BACON v. RIvEs.

0

[Sup. .

he had invested the funds placed in his hands in a way not
authorized by the instructions given him, and consequently, it
is argued, the complainants had then a cause of action to recover such damages as they had sustained by reason of the disregard of their instructions. It may be that, upon final hearing,
when the facts are fully disclosed, the court may be bound to
hold the complainants estopped to complain of his departure
from the instructions under which he received the funds in
question. Even then, so far as can be now determined from
the allegations in the bill, he would be liable to account for
the proceeds, if any, of his investment "in the transportation
of cotton under articles of partnership," in the same way that
he would be required to account for the proceeds of investments made in conformity to his instructions. It does not
appear from the bill that the defendant intended, by investing
in the particular mode stated in his letter, to assume a position of hostility to his principals, or to hold the proceeds, if
any, of that investment, in his own right.
As, therefore, it does not clearly or distinctly appear from
the bill that the suit was barred by limitation, the demurrer
should have been overruled. The facts, when fully developed,
may present an altogether different, case from that now disclosed. We can only consider the question of limitation in
the light of the facts alleged in the bill.
Decree reversed, and cause remandedfor further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
This case was argued at the last term, before MR. JUSTICE
came upon the bench, and he took no part in
deciding it.
BLATO FORD

