Oct. 1882.]

OSBORNE V. COUNTY OF ADAMS.

Clough burner which had the tubular alve in the inside of the
burner-tube.
If the evidence as to the existence prior to the invention of
Barker of other burners tlhan that of Clough be considered, on
the question of the novelty of the arrangement claimed by the
Barker patent, it must be held that none of the prior forms of
burner introduced in evidence anticipate the arrangement
covered by the claim of the Barker patent.
.Decree affrmed.

OSBORNE

V.

CouTJY oF ADAMs.

A steam grist-mill is not a work of internal improvement, within the meaning of
the act of Nebraska of Feb. 15, 1869, entitled "An Act to enable counties,
cities, and precincts to borrow money on their bonds, or to issue bonds to aid
in the construction or completion of works of internal improvement in this
State, and to legalize bonds already issued for such purpose."

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nebraska.
This was an action brought by Osborne against the county
of Adams, Nebraska, to recover the amount of certain coupons
detached from bonds of Juniata Precinct, a legal subdivision of
that county. Pursuant to a vote of the qualified electors of the
precinct, to aid in the construction of a steam grist-mill therein,
the bonds were issued by the county commissioners under the
authority supposed to be conferred by the act of that State of
Feb. 15, 1869, the first and seventh sections of which are as
follows: -

"SECT. 1. That any county or city in the State of Nebraska is
hereby authorized to issue bonds to aid in the construction of any
railroad or other work of internal improvement to an amount to be
determined by the county commissioners of such county, or city
council of such city, not exceeding ten per cent of the assessed
valuation of all taxable property in said county or city: Provided,
the county commissioners or city council shall first submit the question of the issuing said bonds to a vote of the legal voters of said

OSBORNE, V. COUNTY OF ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

county or city in the manner provided by chapter nine of the
Revised Statutes of the State of Nebraska, for submitting to the
people of a county the question of borrowing money."
"SECT. 7. Any precinct in any organized county of this State
shall have the privilege of voting to aid works of internal improvement, and be entitled to all the privileges conferred upon counties
and cities by the provisions of this act; and in such cases the precinct election shall be governed in the same manner as is provided
in this act, so far as the same is applicable, and the county commissioners shall issue special bonds for such precinct, and the tax to
pay the same shall be levied upon the property within the bounds
of such precinct. Such. precinct bonds shall contain a statement
showing the special nature of such bonds.'
The court sustained a demurrer to the declaration, and
Osborne brought this writ of error.
Mr. Adna H. Bowen and Hir. John IT. Ames for the plaintiff
in error.
Mr. John -Doniphanfor the defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
A steam grist-mill is not, in our opinion, a work of internal
improvement, within the meaning of the act of Nebraska
approved Feb. 15, 1869, which authorizes counties, cities, and
precincts of organized counties "to issue bonds to aid in the
construction of any railroad or other work of internal improvement."
Township of Burlington v. Beasley, 94 U. S. 310, is not, as
supposed by counsel, an authority for a different conclusion.
That case arose under a statute of Kansas, which empowered
municipal townships in that State to issue bonds "for the purpose of building bridges, free or otherwise, or to aid in the
construction of railroads or water-power, by donation thereto,
or the taking of stock therein, or for other works of internal
improvement." The bonds there in suit were issued to aid
in the construction and completion of, and to furnish the
motive power for, a steam custom grist-mill. It was held
that the statute, reasonably interpreted, embraced a grist-mill
operated by steam, as well as one run by water-power; that,
since municipal aid was authorized for "the construction of
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

Ot. 1882.]

SCHOOL DISTRICT V. STONE.

. . . water-power," the phrase "other works of internal improvement," in the Kansas statute, might be fairly construed
as embracing works of the same class, and consequently as
embracing a steam grist-mill. The court was somewhat influenced, as plainly appears from its opinion, by decisions of
the Supreme Court of Kansas, particularly that of .ommissioners of Leavenworth County v. lliller, 7 Kan. 479.
The present case is different. The only work of internal
improvement specially described in the Nebraska statute is a
railroad, and we are not justified by anything in Township of
Burlington v. Beasley, or in the decisions of the courts of
Nebraska, in holding that a steam or other kind of grist-mill is
of the class of internal improvements which municipal townships in that State are empowered, by the statute in question,
to aid by an issue of bonds.
For these reasons we adjudge that the bonds issued by the
county commissioners in behalf of Juniata Precinct, in Adams
County, Nebraska, in aid of the construction of a steam gristmill in that precinct, are unauthorized by the act of Feb. 15,
1869; and as authority for their issue is not claimed to exist
under any other statute, they must be held to be without binding force against the precinct.
Judgment affirmed.

SCHOOL DISTRICT V. STONE.
Bonds issued in the name of an independent school district, in the State of Iowa,
contain these recitals: "This bond is issued by the board of school directors
by authority of an election of the voters of said school district held on the
thirty-first day of July, 1869, in conformity with the provisions of chapter 98
of acts 12th General Assembly of the State of Iowa." Held, 1. That the recitals imply as well that the bonds were issued by authority of the election, as
that the election was lawfully held, but do not, necessarily or clearly, import
a compliance with those provisions which, following substantially the words
of the State Constitution, prohibit such a district from incurring indebtedness
"to an amount in the aggregate exceeding five per centum on the value of its
taxable property, to be ascertained by the last State and county tax lists previous to the incurring of such indebtedness." 2. That, in a suit on the bonds,
the district is not estopped by the recitals from showing that the indebtedness
of which the bonds are evidence exceeds the amount limited by the Constitution and laws of the State.

