Oct. 1882.]

MASON v. NORTHWESTERN INS. CO.

MASON v. NORTHWESTERN

INSURANCE Co3IriNY.

1. Where the Circuit Court adjudged the sale of mortgaged lands in Illinois,
and foreclosed the defendant's right to redeem them, from and after such
sale, he waives no error by omitting to tender the money within the statutory period allowed for redeeming them, he having within two years after
the date of the decree appealed therefrom.
2. Brine v. Insurance Company, 96 U. S. 627; Burley v. Flint, 105 id. 247; and Suitterlin v. Connecticut Mutual Insurance Co., 90 IMI.483, commented upon.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company filed,
Dec. 10, 1875, a bill in the court below to foreclose a mortgage
given May 7, 1874, by Murphy and wife, to secure his bond to
the company for ,$40,000. The mortgage covers certain land situated in the city of Chicago, which they subsequently conveyed to
Mason in trust for the benefit of Murphy's creditors. The bill
prays for a decree ordering that payment of the amount due
be made, and in default thereof that the land be sold by and
under the direction of the court, in satisfaction of the decree,
and that all persons claiming by, through, or under the defendants, or any or either of them, be forever barred and foreclosed of and from all title, interest, claim, demand, and all
right and equity of redemption whatsoever in or against the
land or any part thereof. Mason was made a party defendant,
and he filed an answer setting up, inter alia, that the complainant ought not to have the relief prayed for in the bill, inasmuch as the statutes of Illinois provide that land sold by virtue
of a decree of foreclosure may, in the manner which they prescribe, be redeemed within fifteen months of such sale; and he
prayed the same advantage of the answer as if he had pleaded
or demurred to the bill of complaint. The court, Jan. 2,
1877, entered a decree for the amount due upon the mortgage,
and directing the master to make a sale of the land in question according to the course and practice of the court. He
reported, July 24, 1877, a sale of the land to the complainant
May 8, 1877, and a decree was entered, July 31, 1877, confirming the sale, ordering him to execute to the complainant a deed
of the land, adjudging the defendants to be forever barred and

MASON

v.

NORTHWESTERN INS. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

foreclosed from all equity of redemption and other claim, legal
or equitable, of, in, and to the land and every part thereof.
Mason appealed from both decrees, and assigns for error that
the court below erred, -First, In denying to him, by the decree entered Jan. 2, 1877, the right to redeem from the sale
thereby ordered, as prayed for by his answer, and in ordering
.the sale to be made in accordance with the course and practice
of the court, without making provision for the redemption after
sale. Secondly, In confirming, by the decree entered July 81,
1877, the master's sale made without redemption; in ordering
him to execute a deed of the land before the time of redemption
allowed by the statutes of the State had expired; and adjudging that the defendant should be forever barred and foreclosed
from all equity of redemption and other claim in and to the
land.
Mr. Edward C. Mason for the appellant.
Mr. Thomas Boyne for the appellee.
Mn. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The error relied on to reverse the decree is the absolute foreclosure of the equity of redemption, without allowing the time
for that purpose which the statute of Illinois provides. The
case comes directly within Brine v. Insurance Company, 96
U. S. 627. Indeed, it is stronger, for while in that case we
took the admission of counsel on both sides that "a sale in accordance with the course and practice of the court" meant a'
sale which did not admit of any equity of redemption, we have
in this case a decree of confirmation of the sale which expressly
and in the strongest terms cuts off all such right. In accordance
with the principle settled by this court in the case of Brine v.
Insurance Company, both these decrees are erroneous.
It is, however, urged as a reason for not applying that principle in the present case, that the appeal was not taken until
after the period had elapsed within which the appellant could
by the statute have exercised the right of redemption, and that
he has neither paid nor tendered the sum necessary to redeem.
Burley v. Flint, 105 id. 247, and Suitterlin v. Connecticut
Mutual Insurance Co., 90 Ill. 483, are relied on in support
of this view.

Oct. 1882.]

MASON v. NORTHWESTERN INS. CO.

The last of these cases was a suit in a local court of Illinois
to obtain the benefit of the right of redemption from a sale
under a foreclosure decree in the Circuit Court of the United
States. The Supreme Court of that State refused the relief
asked because no effort had been made to redeem within the
statutory period, - a ruling which, in Brley v. Flint, we held
to be sound.
The reason for this is that, while not seeking to reverse the
decree, nor to set aside the sale made thereunder, the proceeding recognized both as valid, and asserted the right of the
party to redeem, as though the sale had been made in accordance with the statute of Illinois. This right, of course, could
only be secured by a strict compliance with that statute, and
having permitted the period to elapse within which he had a
right to redeem, he came too late. The court very properly
dismissed the bill.
In Burley v. TFlint this court approved and adopted the views
of the Illinois court, and applied the principle to the case of a
bill of review which sought the same end. The bill was filed
after the expiration of the period of statutory redemption, and
the amount necessary to redeem had not been tendered within
that time.
Both cases differ from the present in that they were attempts
to enforce the right of redemption outside of, and against the
terms of the decree, while the present case seeks by an appeal
to reverse and set aside the decree. In the former cases equity
required that, before coming to the court for the relief which
the plaintiffs asked, they should have complied with the requirements of the law, or at least offered, within proper time,
to pay the redemption money. Not having done this, the
court very properly refused to permit them to exercise this
right after that time had passed, and with it the right to
redeem. In the present case the appellant has exercised his
right of appeal from the decree within the time allowed to him
by the laws of the United States for that purpose. He has,
therefore, rightfully brought this case before us for review.
His right to do this does not depend upon any offer to redeem
within the fifteen months allowed by the Illinois statute, but is
an absolute right, which we cannot refuse or deny. As it is

CLOUGH v. BARKER.

[Sup. Ct.

apparent from the face of the decree and from what we have
said in Brine v. Insurance Company, that both the original
decree of sale and the subsequent decree of confirmation are
erroneous in refusing to allow the right of redemption under
the statute, they must be reversed. If anything were necessary
to add force to this reasoning it would be found in the fact
that the appellant Mason, in his answer to the original foreclosure bill, expressly referred to the statute of Illinois, and
asked that any decree made in the case should make provision
for redemption within fifteen months after the sale.
Decrees reversed, and cause remandedfor further proceedings
in accordance with this opinion.
MRIt. JUSTICE HARLAN, having been absent during the argument, took no part in the decision of this case.

CLOUGH v. BARKER.
1. The claims of letters-patent No. 104,271, granted to Theodore Clough, June
14, 1870, for an "improvement in gas-burners,' iqfra, p. 168, are valid, and
they are infringed by a burner constructed in accordance with the description contained in letters-patent No. 105,768, granted to John F. Barker,
July 26, 1870, for an "improvement in gas-burners."
2. A burner set up as anticipating Clough's invention, if used now in a way in
which it was never designed to be used, and was not shown to have ever
been used before his invention, might be made to furnish a supplementary
supply of gas. It was not, however, designed for the same purpose as his
burner, and no person looking at it or using it would understand that it was
to be used in the way that his was used, and it was not shown to have been
really used and operated in that way. Held, that it does not amount to his
invention.
3. The combination of the first claim of Clough's is new, and le, having first
applied a valve regulation of any kind thereto, is entitled to hold as infringements of the second claim all valve regulations, applied to such a
combination, which perform the same office in substantially the same way
as, and were known equivalents for, his form of valve regulation.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

