668

COUNTY OF KANKAKEE V. .LTNA LIFE INS. CO.

[SUp. Ct.

to the claim of the plaintiff in error. We see no reason
for reconsidering that case, and this cannot be distinguished
from it.

Judgment affirmed.

COmTY OF KANKAKEE v. ETNA LIFE INSURANCE
COMXeANY.
1. The charter of the Kankakee and Illinois River Railroad Company does not
limit the operation and effect of the general laws of Illinois, which confer
power upon counties to subscribe for stock in railroad companies and issue
bonds in payment therefor.
2. The county of Kankakee, in that State, having been organized under the act
of April 1, 1851, to provide for township organization, it was the duty of its
board of supervisors to discharge the duties enjoined by the general laws
upon the county courts in those counties which did not adopt that organization.
3. The bonds issued by that board to pay for the subscription to the stock of
that company are valid obligations of the county.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr.FrancisH. Kales for the plaintiff in error.

Mr. 0. J. Bailey and Mr. James H. Sedgwick for the defendant in error.
MR. JUsiICE MATTmWS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The judgment sought to be reviewed by this writ of error
was rendered upon coupons attached to municipal bonds purporting to be issued by the plaintiff in error. The cause was
tried by the court without the intervention of a jury, and the
facts appear in a bill of exceptions. Each bond of the issue
bears date Sept. 20, 1870, and contains a recital that it "is
issued under and pursuant to orders of the board of supervisors
of Kankakee County, Illinois, for subscription to the capital
stock of the Kankakee and Illinois River Railroad Company, as
authorized by virtue of the laws of the State of Illinois authorizing cities and counties to subscribe capital stock to aid and

Oct. 1882.]

COUNTY OF KANKAKEE V. ETNA LIFE INS.

Co. 669

construct railroads; also in accordance with the provisions of
an act of said State of Illinois entitled 'An Act to fund and
provide for paying the railroad debt of counties, townships,
cities, and towns,' in force April 16, A. D. 1869."
The bonds were sealed with the county seal, signed by the
chairman of the board of supervisors, and countersigned by
the clerk of the county court, under the order of the board of
supervisors of the county, Sept. 20, 1870.
The defendant in error is a bona fide holder for value,
having purchased them before their maturity in the open
market and without notice of any defence.
The defence made, however, and overruled in the court
below, is matter of law, and alleges that the bonds are void,
in whosesoever hands, first, because the county had no power
under the law to issue them at all, and, second, because they
were issued by the board of supervisors of the county, who
were not the representatives of the county empowered to
bind it.
Section 16 of the charter of the Kankakee and Illinois River
Railroad Company, in force April 15, 1869, provides that "to
further aid in the construction of said railroad, townships,
corporate towns, and cities on or along the line of said railroad
may subscribe to the capital stock of said company in sums
not exceeding one hundred thousand dollars respectively, " if
such subscription shall have been authorized by a majority of
the legal voters at an election called and held for that purpose.
In that event, bonds of such township, corporate town, or city
shall be issued in payment thereof to the railroad company.
Sect. 17 of the same act declares that "nothing herein contained shall prevent counties and cities from taking and voting
for subscriptions in the stock of said company, under the general laws of this State."
The general laws referred to include "An Act supplemental
to an act entitled ' An Act to provide for a general system of
railroad incorporations,'" which took effect Nov. 6, 1849.
Laws of 1849, 2d Sess. p. 83.
That act authorizes every county
to subscribe for stock in any railroad company, already or
thereafter to be organized or incorporated, under any law of
the State, to the extent of $100,000, and, for the payment of

670

COUNTY OF KANKAKEE V. A]TNA LIFE

INS. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

the same, expressly empowers the judges of the County Court
to borrow money, at a rate of interest not exceeding ten per
cent per annum, and to pledge the faith of the county for the
annual payment of the interest and the ultimate redemption of
the principal, or, if they shall deem it most advisable, they are
authorized to pay for such subscription in bonds of the county,
bearing interest not exceeding the rate aforesaid; and the railroad company is also authorized, by a separate section of the
act, to receive such bonds in payment of such subscriptions.
The contention now is on the part of the plaintiff in error,
that the language quoted from the seventeenth section of the
charter of the Kankakee and Illinois River Railroad Company is
a reservation merely of the power given by the general laws of
the State to counties to subscribe for stock; and as the power
to issue bonds in payment therefor is a distinct power, it is not
included in the reservation, and therefore ceased to exist on
the passage of the act, so far as the present transaction is concerned.
But the obvious meaning of the clause relied on to accomplish that result is merely that the general laws of the State
authorizing counties to subscribe for stock in that railroad
company shall remain unaffected by the charter, which conferred similar power on townships, corporate towns, and cities
on the line of the road, and not in any manner to limit the operation and application of those general laws upon the subject.
The very purpose of the proviso seems to us to have been to
exclude the very conclusion now sought to be drawn from it.
Indeed, if the argument be good for anything at all, it results that, under the operation of this reservation, the naked
power to subscribe for stock remains in the counties, without
any authority, and therefore without any obligation, to pay for
it; for if the power to issue bonds is taken away, so also is the
power to pledge the faith of the county for the annual payment of the interest and the ultimate redemption of the principal,- a pledge which means, of course, that payment shall be
made out of the revenues of the county derived from taxation.
As such a construction of law confesses its own absurdity, it
is not necessary to make any formal refutation of it.
It is further contended on the part of the plaintiff in error,

Oct. 1882.]

COUNTY OF KANKAKEE V. fTNA LIFE INs.

Co. 671

that if, at the date of these bonds, Kankakee County had
corporate power to execute and issue them, it could only be
done by the county court according to the terms of the statute
conferring that power. Such, in fact, is the language of the
general law of 1849, from which the power is derived.
But the county of Kankakee, it is admitted, was organized
under the act of April 1, 1851, to provide for township organization. Laws of 1851, p. 35. Under that mode of organization the corporate powers of counties, otherwise exercised by
the judges of the county court, are devolved upon a board of
supervisors, such as, in the present instance, executed and
issued the bonds in question. Art. 15, sect. 4, of that act
declares that "the powers of a county as a body politic can
only be exercised by the board of supervisors thereof, or in
And art. 16,
pursuance of a resolution by them adopted."
sect. 4, provides that "the board of supervisors of each county
in this State shall have power, at their annual meetings, or at
any other meeting, . . . to perform all other duties, not inconsistent with this act, which may be required of or enjoined
on them by any law of this State to the county courts."
In Green v. Wardwell, 17 Ill. 278, it was said that the board
of supervisors were the legal successors to the county commissioners court, as had been previously decided in The People v.
Thurber, 13 Ill. 554. In Prettyman v. Supervisors of Tazewell
County, 19 Ill. 406, the very point here raised was decided,
and it was held that under the act of 1851 it was the duty of the
board of supervisors to act instead of the county court in calling an election to vote on the question, in making the subscription for the stock, and in issuing county bonds in payment
therefor. The act of April 1, 1861, "to reduce the act to provide for township organization and the several acts amendatory
thereof into one act and to amend the same" (Session Laws of
Illinois, 1861, pp. 216-237), removes all doubt on the subject.
It confers (art. 14, sect. 6, 8th clause) upon the board of supervisors authority "to perform all other duties, not inconsistent
with this act, which may be required of or enjoined on them by
any law of this State, or which are enjoined upon county courts,
when holding terms for the transactionof county business in those
counties not adopting township organization." This act was in

HAYWARD V. A.NDREWS.

[Sup. Ot.

force when the bonds sued upon in this case were issued, and
they are governed by it. The case of Gaddis v. ]icldand
County, 92 Ill. 119, relied upon by counsel for plaintiff in error
on this point, is not inconsistent with this result in the present
case, because that decision is based on the words of the charter
of the railroad company conferring the authority to subscribe
to its capital stock, which, in the opinion of the court, expressly limited the exercise of the power to the county court.
The same comment may be made upon the case of Supervisors
of Schuyler County v. People, ex rel. Bock Island & Alton Bailroad Co., 25 Ill. 181.
We find no error in the record, and the judgment of the Circuit Court is accordingly
Affirmed.

HAYWARD v. ANDREws.
1. The assignee of a chose in action cannot proceed in equity to enforce, for his
own use, the legal right of his assignors, merely upon the ground that he
cannot maintain an action at law in his own name. So held, where the
owner of letters-patent assigned them, together with all claims for damages
by reason of the previous infringement of them, and the assignee filed his
bill to recover such damages.
2. Root v. Railroad Company, 105 U. S. 189, cited and approved.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Hr. Gilbert M. Speir, Jr., 11r. Ephraim Banning, and
Thomas A. Banning for the appellant.
Mr. L. L. Bond and Mr. E. A. West for the appellees.

Hr.

MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
This appeal brings into review the decree dismissing, on a
general demurrer, the amended bill of Hayward, the complainant, for want of equity.
The case made by the amended bill and exhibits is this.

