700

GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY CO. v. CU0MbINGS.

[Sup. Ct,

GRA ND TRUNK RAILWAY COMPANY V. CUMMINGS.
1. Although the refusal, at the close of the testimony for the plaintiff, to direct
a verdict for the defendants would justify a reversal of a judgment against
them, yet if they proceed with their defence and introduce testimony which
is not in the record, the judgment on the verdict which the jury, under
proper instructions, find against them will not be reversed on account of
that refusal.
2. The plaintiff, in the course of his employment as an engine-driver for the
defendant, a railroad company, was injured by the collision of the train
on which he was with another train of the company. Held, that the court
did not err in charging the jury that the company, if its negligence had a
share in causing the injuries of the plaintiff, was liable, notwithstanding
the contributory negligence of his fellow-servant.
ERROR

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of Maine.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
iJr. John Band for the plaintiff in error.
M1r. Almon A. Strout and ilIr. George P. Hfolmes for the
defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was a suit brought by Cummings, against the Grand
Trunk Railway Company of Canada, to recover damages for
an injury which in the course of his employment, as an engineman of the company, he sustained by a collision of a train on
which he was with another train of the same company. His
claim is that the collision was caused by the fault and neglect
of the company; that of the company that it was caused by the
negligence and disobedience of a fellow-servant of Cummings.
This was the issue at the trial, and at the close of the testimony on the part of Cummings the company asked the court
to instruct the jury to return a verdict in its favor, which
being refused an exception was taken. All the testimony
before the jury when this instruction was asked has been put
into the bill of exceptions.
The company then introduced testimony touching the points
covered by that on the part of Cummings. ' None of this testi-

Oct. 1882.]

GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY

CO.

V. CUMMINGS.

701

mony is in the record. The company did not contend that he
was guilty of contributory negligence.
At the close of the case on both sides the court gave to the
jury sundry instructions, not excepted to, and then, at the
request of Cummings, instructed them further, "that if Noyes
[the person claimed to be a co-servant] was negligent, and if
the company was also wanting in ordinary care and prudence
in discharging their duties, and such want of ordinary care
contributed to produce the injury, and the plaintiff did not
know of such want of ordinary care and prudence, the defendant would be liable; that if two of those causes contributed,
the company would be liable; that the mere negligence of
Noyes of itself does not exonerate them, if one of their own
faults contributes." To this an exception was taken. The
jury returned a verdict for Cummings, upbn which a judgment
was rendered against the company. To reverse that judgment
the company brought this writ, and it assigns for error: 1, the
refusal to direct a verdict for it at the close of Cummings's
testimony; and, 2, the giving of the instruction which was
excepted to.
It is undoubtedly true that a case may be presented in
which the refusal to direct a verdict for the defendant at the
close of the plaintiff's testimony will be good ground for the
reversal of a judgment on a verdict in favor of the plaintiff, if
the defendant rests his case on such testimony -and introduces
none in his own behalf; but if he goes on with his defence and
puts in testimony of his own, and the jury, under proper instructions, finds against him on the whole evidence, the judgment cannot be reversed, in the absence of the defendant's
testimony, on account of the original refusal, even though it
would not have been wrong to give the instruction at the time
it was asked.
The present case comes within this rule. The evidence
introduced on the part of the company is not in the bill of
exceptions, and the court was not asked to instruct the jury to
find for the defendant on the whole case. Under such circumstances, it must be presumed, in the absence of anything to
the contrary, that when the case was closed on both sides,
there was enough in the testimony to make it proper to leave

702

GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY CO. v. CUMMINGS.

[Sup. Ct.

the issues to be settled by the jury. In this we are not to be
understood as saying that the instruction ought to have been
given when it was asked.
In the instruction which was given we find no error. It
was in effect that if the negligence of the company contributed
to, that is to say, had a share in producing, the injury, the company was liable, even though the negligence of a fellow-servant
of Cummings was contributory also. If the negligence of the
company contributed to, it must necessarily have been an immediate cause of, the accident, and it is no defence that another
affirmed.
was likewise guilty of wrong.

