Oct. 1882.]

BAYLY V. UNIVERSITY.

therefore erroneous, whether it is to be treated as proceeding
upon a distinct motion filed at the general term, or upon an
appeal from the decision of the judge on the original motion
filed before him.
As the error appears on the record, no bill of exceptions was
necessary to secure the rights of the party aggrieved. Bennett
v. Butterworth, 11 How. 669. As the erroneous order directed
further proceedings in the court below, he could not bring the
case to this court until after such proceedings had been had
and a final judgment rendered against him. Baker v. White,
92 U. S. 176; Bostwick v. Brinkerhoff, ante, p. 3. As without that error the final judgment could not have gone against
him, the question is open on his writ of error upon the final
judgment.
The judgment rendered upon the verdict in favor of the
plaintiff having been erroneously set aside, the subsequent final
judgment for the defendant must be reversed, and the former
judgment for the plaintiff affirmed as of the date when it was
rendered, in order to prevent the action from being abated by
the subsequent death of the plaintiff. Mitchell v. Overman,
103 U. S. 62.
Ordered accordingly.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD was not present at the argument, and

took no part in the decision of this case.

BAYLY V. UNIVERSITY.
1. A composition between a bankrupt and his creditors, under sect. 17 of the act
of June 22, 1874, c. 390, although ratified by the proper District Court, did
not discharge him from a debt or a liability incurred by him while acting
in a fiduciary character.
2. That section did not repeal sect. 5117 Rev. Stat. Wilmot v. Mudge, 103 U. S.
217, cited upon this point and approved.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
The facts are sufficiently stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

BAYLY V. UNIVERSITY.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. John Hf. Kennard and 1M1r. William Wirt Howe for the
plaintiff in error.
Mr. James Leovy for the defendant in error.
MR. J-USTICE MILLBR delivered the opinion of the court.

In the Second District Court of the Parish of Orleans, in
the matter of the succession of R. H. Bayly, there was an
opposition to the homologation of the account presented by
George M. Bayly, executor of said R. H. Bayly, by the
Washington and Lee University, which was a legatee under
the will of the deceased.
This opposition, so far as the case before us is concerned,
was to an item of $18,021.79, which that court decided to be
a debt from the firm of Bayly & Pond, the members of which
had been declared bankrupt, and in regard to whom a resolution of composition by the creditors had been confirmed by the
District Court of the United States.
The plaintiff in error here relied upon this composition as
discharging him, both as executor of the estate of his brother,
and as a member of the partnership of Bayly & Pond, from
liability for the item; and the inferior court accepting this
view of the matter, made an order that it should only be paid
in due course of administration.
On appeal of the Washington and Lee University, the Supreme Court of Louisiana decided that the item represented
a debt by the executor of a fiduciary character, which was
not barred by the composition order, and directed a judgment
against Bayly in cash for the amount of it, to which judgment
this writ of error is prosecuted.
The proposition argued here, namely, that a composition in
a bankruptcy case, ratified by order of the District Court,
operates as a discharge of the bankrupt from all his debts,
including those arising from fraud or growing 6ut of a fiduciary relation, as well as others, was decided adversely by
this court some two years after the present writ of error was
sued out, in the case of Wilmot v. Mudge, 103 U. S. 217.
It is there held that notwithstanding the comprehensive
terms in which sect. 17 of the act of June 22, 1874, c. 390,
declares such a composition to be binding, it was not intended

Oct. 1882.]

THE "NEW

ORLEANS."

to repeal sect. 5117 of the Revised Statutes, which enacts
that "no debt created by fraud or embezzlement of the bankrupt, or by his defalcation as a public officer, or while acting
in any fiduciary character, shall be discharged by proceedings
in bankruptcy."
This disposes of the only question in the record of which this
court has jurisdiction, and decides that whatever may be due by
plaintiff in error to the succession as executor is not discharged
by the proceeding in bankruptcy, and he is left to account with
the court in that character as though no composition in bankruptcy had been made. Whether in that accounting he was
executor or not, and whether as such he had so dealt with the
item in question as to be relieved of liability as executor or to
be bound for it, are matters depending on the application of
the law of Louisiana to the facts of the case, and involve no
question under the bankrupt law.
Judgment affirmed.

TaE "1NEW ORLEANS."
1. The court, upon the facts found by the Circuit Court, affirms the decree
whereby the steamer "New Orleans" was condemned to pay the damages
occasioned by her collision with a schooner.
2. The evidence which in another suit a part owner of the schooner gave as to
the extent and cost of the repairs put upon her, is not in this suit admissible against the other part owners.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The owners of the "Allie Bickmore" filed, in their own
behalf and as carriers of her cargo, their libel in a cause of
collision, civil and maritime, against the "New Orleans." The
District Court adjudged the "New Orleans" to be wholly in
fault, and rendered a final decree accordingly for $15,682.37,

with interest thereon and costs. Both parties appealed to the
Circuit Court, which found the following facts 1. A little after five o'clock in the morning of the 6th of
September, 1874, a collision occurred between the schooner

