Oct. 1882.)

BAILEY V. RAILROAD CO.

BAILEY v.

RAILROAD COIPANY.

The court, in 22 Wall. 604, when this case was then before it, passed upon the
character and effect of certain certificates therein described, which were
issued by a railroad company pursuant to a resolution passed by the board
of directors, Dec. 19, 1868, declaring that each stockholder was entitled to
eighty per cent of his capital stock, the earnings which the company, with a
view to increase its traffic, had thitherto expended in constructing and equipping its road and in purchasing property. The court adheres to its former
ruling that the certificates were dividends in scrip, within the meaning of
sect. 122 of the act of June 30, 1864, c. 173, as amended by the act of July 13,
1866, c. 184; but further holds that the company could show what were its
earnings from Sept. 1, 1862, to Dec. 19, 1868, when the income-tax law was in
force, as its earnings during any other period were not subject to the tax in
question.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Solicitor-General and 11r. Richard Crowley for the
plaintiff in error.
ffMr. osepth . hoate and LMr. Sidney T. Fairchild for
the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
On Dec. 19, 1868, the New York Central Railroad Company, afterwards merged by consolidation into a new corporation, known as the New York Central and Hudson River
Railroad Company, the defendant in error, adopted a preamble, resolutions, and certificate, of which the following is a
copy: "Whereas this company has hitherto expended of its earnings
for the purpose of constructing and equipping its road, and in the
purchase of real estate and other properties, with a view to the increase of its traffic, moneys equal in amount to eighty per cent of
the capital stock of the company; and whereas the several stockholders of the company are entitled to evidence of such expenditure,
and to reimbursement of the same at some convenient future period:
Now, therefore, "1Resolved,That a certificate, signed by the president and treasurer of this company, be issued to the stockholders severally, de-

BAILEY V. RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

claring that such stockholder is entitled to eighty per cent of the
amount of the capital stock held by him, payable ratably with the
other certificates issued under this resolution, at the option of
the company, out of its future earnings, with dividends thereon at
the same rates and times as dividends shall be paid on the shares
of the capital stock of the company, and that such certificates may
be, at the option of the company, convertible into stock of the company whenever the company shall be authorized to increase its
capital stock to an amount sufficient for such conversion.
"Resolved, That such certificates be delivered to the stockholders
of this company at the Union Trust Company, in the city of New
York, on the presentation of their several certificates of stock, and
that the receipt of the certificate provided for in these resolutions
shall be indorsed on the stock certificate."
The certificate issued under this authority is as follows :"Under a resolution of the board of directors of this company,
passed December 19, 1868, of which the above is a copy, the New
York Central Railroad Company hereby certifies that
shares of the capital stock of said combeing the holder of
dollars, payable ratably with the other
pany, is entitled to
certificates issued under said resolution, at the pleasure of the company, out of its future earnings, with dividends thereon at the same
rates and times as dividends shall be paid upon the shares of the
capital stock of said company.
"This certificate may be transferred on the books of the company
on the surrender of this certificate.
"In witness whereof the said company has caused this certificate
to be signed by its president and treasurer, this nineteenth day of
December, 1868."
The resolution was carried into effect by an issue of the
contemplated certificates to the amount of $23,086,000, -- being
eighty per cent of its authorized capital of $28,795,000; and
the holders of them regularly received dividends equal to those
declared and paid upon the capital stock, until the certificates
were redeemed at par in the stock of the consolidated corporation, as then authorized by law. This consolidation took place
in 1872.
On March 3, 1870, the proper officer of the internal revenue
assessed a tax of five per cent upon the amount of these certifi-

Oct. 1882.]

BAILEY v. RAILROAD

CO.

cates, being 81,151,800, and added a penalty of $1,000, under
sect. 122 of the act of June 30, 1864, c. 173. 13 Stat. 223,
284.
From this assessment the company appealed successively to
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and the Secretary of the
Treasury. Upon the appeal, a decision was rendered reducing
the assessment to the sum of %460,720.
This decision was based upon the ground that the issue of
the certificates was a scrip dividend, within the meaning of
sect. 122 of the act of 1864; but that as it had been made to
appear that the earnings stated in the resolution to have been
expended, accrued during the entire period of fifteen years,
from 1853 to 1868, - of which only six years were covered
by the income-tax law, which first took effect in September,
1862, the tax should be apportioned pro rata, by remitting
nine-fifteenths, and assessing it upon $9,214,400, which was
assumed to be the amount of earnings during the period when
they were subject to the tax. The assessment of $460,720,
with a penalty of five per cent, being $23,036, and interest
at the rate of one per cent per month, amounting to $64,153.48,
were exacted by the collector, and paid under protest.
To recover back these sums as illegally exacted, the company
brought this action against Bailey, the collector of internal
revenue, who had collected them.
On the first trial of the case, the court charged that the
assessment was wholly illegal and void, the certificates not
being a scrip dividend within the meaning of the law, and furnishing no basis for the assessment of any tax whatever, and
that consequently the verdict must be for the plaintiff. There
was a verdict accordingly, and the judgment thereon was, upon
a writ of error, reversed, and a new trial awarded by this
court, in the decision reported in 22 Wall. 604. The second
trial resulted in a verdict and judgment for the company, for
,$499,432.68.
To reverse the judgment Bailey brought this
writ of error.
The principal questions presented arise upon his exceptions
to the charge to the jury, and to the refusal to give certain
instructions as requested.
The substance of the charge upon the main point was, that

BAILEY v. RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

while the certificates constituted a scrip dividend, which justified the assessment and constituted a complete prima facie
defence to the action, nevertheless it was competent for the
plaintiff to show what amount of the earnings of the company,
accruing from Sept. 1, 1862, to Dec. 19, 1868, was represented
by, and included in, the certificates; and that this amount
alone being subject to the tax, the plaintiff was entitled to recover all which in excess thereof had been exacted and paid.
The opposing proposition of the defendant below, the request
to give which as a charge to the jury was refused, was, that the
certificates were conclusive upon the company of the amount
of a scrip dividend subject to taxation without deduction.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error now contend that their
position is established by the decision in 22 Wall. 604, to which
we have already referred.
The actual and precise judgment upon the former writ of
error is, however, completely satisfied by the charge of the Circuit Court now in question; for the ruling on the first trial,
held to be erroneous, was that the certificates constituted no
basis whatever for taxation as a scrip dividend, and were not
to be admitted or considered even as a primafaciedefence to the
action. The reversal at that time did not and could not, upon
the record then presented, anticipate and prejudge the question
now raised, whether those certificates were conclusive as to
the amount of the taxable earnings represented by them.
There is nothing in the opinion of the court then pronounced which, properly understood, requires any conclusion
to the contrary.
In that opinion the nature of these certificates is described,
and their character as scrip dividends defined. It is there
stated that "interest certificates of the kind were issued as
evidence to the stockholders that an equal amount of the earnings of the company beyond current expenses had been expended for the objects stated in the preamble of the certificates,
and to show that the respective stockholders were entitled to
reimbursement of such expenditure at some convenient future
period, and also to show that the stockholders were entitled to
dividends on the same whenever dividends were paid on the
shares of the capital stock; and that the certificates were to

Oct. 1882.]

BAILEY v. RAILROAD CO.

be paid out of the future earnings of the company, or to be
converted, at the option of the company, into stock, if thereafter authorized to exercise that function.
"Such a paper, therefore, by whatever name it may be called,
is, upon its face, evidence for each stockholder, to persons with
whom he may have dealings, of the amount of the previous net
earnings of the company; that such net earnings had been
expended in constructing and equipping the railroad and in the
purchase of real estate and other properties appertaining to the
same, and that the holders of the certificates will be entitled to
dividends whenever dividends are paid upon the capital stock."
These certificates were considered to be a dividend declared,
as of profits which bad been, at some previous time, earned
and converted into capital by an investment in permanent
improvements of the railroad, and it was as representing such
earnings that they were considered the subject of a tax.
Whether those profits had been earned since or before the
passage of the act of Congress imposing such a tax does not
appear from any recital in the certificates, and they were
dealt with by the government itself upon the footing of not
being taxable beyond the amount represented by them which
had actually been earned after the taking effect of the law.
The Treasury Department, as has already been stated, reduced
the assessment to six-fifteenths of the face of the certificates,
upon the hypothesis that an equal proportion of the whole
amount had accrued during each of the fifteen years, since the
organization of the company, in 1853; and in view of this
reduction, Mr. Justice Clifford, in the opinion referred to,
added: " Whether or not they are liable for the whole amount
is not a question in this case."
The question having thus been left open, it is now contended
by the counsel for the plaintiff in error that, by the reason and
terms of the law, the certificates are taxable as a scrip dividend upon the full nominal amount thereof.
The one hundred and twenty-second section of the said act
of 1864, under which the question arises, is as follows : " SEcT. 122. And be it .further enacted, That any railroad,
canal, turnpike, canal navigation or slack-water company, indebted
for any money for which bonds or other evidence of indebtedness
VOL. XVI.

8

BAILEY

v. RAILROAD C[0.

[Sup. Ct.

have been issued, payable in one or more years after date, upon
which interest is stipulated to be paid or'coupons representing
interest, or any such company that may have declared any dividend
in scrip or money due or payable to its stockholders as part of the
earnings, profits, income, or gains of such company, and all profits
of such company carried to the account of any fund or used for
construction, shall be subject to and pay a duty of five per centum
on the amount of all such interest, or coupons, dividends, or profits
whenever the same shall be payable," &c.
It is now urged in argument that, upon the express terms of
this section, the certificates in question being a declaration
of a dividend as part of the earnings, profits, income, or gains
of the company, are taxable upon the amount thereof without
deduction; that the policy as well as the language of the act
fixes the charge upon the declaration itself when made effectual
as between the company and its stockholders, and, for the purposes of taxation, concludes both as to the amount subject to
the tax; and that the rule is reasonable as furnishing an obvious standard and the only safe criterion for the assessment
of the tax to prevent fraudulent evasions. And consequently
that when such a dividend has once been declared, and ascertained to come within the description of the law as a subject
of taxation, all the rest follows, and the amount declared is
necessarily established as the amount to be taxed.
The soundness of this mode of interpretation, and its application to ordinary cases, may well be admitted; but it cannot
be applied to every case without a careful regard to its necessary limitations.
It should be borne in mind, in the first place, that the tax
provided for in this section is an annual income tax, and its
subject is the interest paid and profits earned by the company
for each year, and year by year; and that both by the express
letter of the law, and it necessary implications, the tax is not
laid on any of these funds which came into being before the
time prescribed in the act. And in the ordinary execution of
the law, it was contemplated that the funds to be taxed, and
the tax imposed upon them, would be concurrent, as to each fiscal
year; the scheme of the statute being to levy the tax upon the
income for the year ending on the 31st of December next pre-

Oct. 1882.]

BAILEY v. RAILROAD CO.

ceding the assessment; and while it would be altogether admissible to go back, for the purpose of assessing a tax upon a
proper fund which had accrued during a previous year and
escaped taxation, nevertheless the tax imposed would be for
the omitted year. But no tax, in contemplation of the law,
accrues upon the fund, except for the year in which the fund
itself accrued.
It is also to be remembered that the subject-matter of the
tax is the net earnings of the company for the year for which
they are taxed, which have been actually realized by it, or
which the law assumes to have been. We repeat here what
was said by Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the court in
Railroad Conzpany v. Collector, 100 U. S. 595, 598: "The
corporations mentioned in this section are those engaged in
furnishing road-ways and water-ways for the transportation of
persons and property, and the manifest purpose of the law was
to levy the tax on the net earnings of such companies. How
were these 'earnings, profits, incomes, or gains' to be most
certainly ascertained? In every well-conducted corporation
of this character these profits were disposed of in one of four
methods; namely, distributed to its stockholders as dividends,
used in construction of its roads or canals, paid out for interest
on its funded debts, or carried to a reserve or other fund remaining in its hands. Looking to these modes of distribution
as the surest evidence of the earnings which Congress intended
to tax, and as less liable to evasion than any other, the tax is
imposed upon all of them. The books and records of the company are thus made evidence of the profits they have made,
and the corporation itself is made responsible for the payment
of the tax."
It is true, indeed, that by the terms of the law the amount
paid as interest on bonds is charged with a tax as part of the
earnings, although there may have been no net earnings out of
which to pay it; but the law proceeds upon a presumption
which disregards what is merely exceptional. And we have
no hesitation in saying, that in reference to a dividend declared as of earnings for the current year and paid as such to
stockholders, whether in money or in scrip, no proof would be
admissible, for the purpose of avoiding the tax, that no earn-

BAILEY v. RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

ings had in fact been made. The law conclusively assumes in
such a case that a dividend declared and paid is a dividend
earned.
It follows also from this view of the purpose of the law, that
a fund taxed in one year, as the profits of a railroad company,
used for construction or carried to the account of any fund,
has been taxed once for all, and cannot, as part of the earnings
of the company, be assessed a second time. The tax for the
year is upon the whole amount of the net earnings, distributed
and enumerated under the heads pointed out in the statute;
and when the tax has been imposed and collected upon them,
or any specific part of them, there is no authority to levy any
further or additional tax. The profits that this year have been
taxed as undivided, and invested in any corporate asset, if in
the succeeding year they are embraced in a dividend declared
and payable to stockholders, have already borne all the burden
imposed by the law, and cannot again be subjected to an assessment for a new tax. There has been a difference of opinion upon the point whether the tax imposed by this section is
upon the corporation, on account of its net profits, or upon the
income of the stockholder or bondholder ; although in the
present case it is immaterial which of these alternatives is
adopted. We are not aware, however, that it has ever been
suggested until now that it might be both in succession, one year a tax upon the income of the corporation, and the
next, upon the same fund as the income of the individual.
We do not think this an admissible construction.
It is necessary, in the application of these principles to the
circumstances of the present case, to regard the special character of the certificates in question. It will be seen that they
do not purport to be a declaration of a dividend as of the earnings of the company during the year in which the tax was
assessed, or, indeed, for any particular year or series of years.
The recital is that the company "has hitherto expended of its
earnings, for the purpose of constructing and equipping its
road and in the purchase of real estate and other properties,
with a view to the increase of its traffic, moneys equal in
amount to eighty per cent of the capital stock of the company."
It was quite legitimate for the assessor to treat this as evi-

Oct. 1882.]

BAILEY v. RAILROAD 00.

dence of an amount of earnings which had never been taxed,
and make the assessment accordingly. It was equally legitimate for the Secretary of the Treasury, upon proof that the
accumulation had been going on from the organization of the
company, in 1853, to apportion the amount in equal proportions for each year, and to deduct nine-fifteenths thereof for the
years which had elapsed before the taking effect of the act taxing incomes. And it is entirely consistent with the declaration
itself to show in point of fact what was the amount of earnings accrued during the period while the income-tax act was
in force which had not been assessed for taxation as profits
carried to construction or other account. The declaration in
the certificates could not be conclusive of anything not inconsistent with it, for an estoppel only prohibits contrary allegations. The proof admitted on the trial below did not contradict
the certificates, but only served to rebut a presumption, which,
as matter of law, was not conclusive. Its tendency and effect
were to exact from the company the full tax upon every dollar
of its earnings, which had not previously paid its proper assessment, and which, in any form, was subject to taxation, and to
relieve it only to the extent to which otherwise it would have
been subjected to the payment of a second tax upon the same
fund. This result, and the process by which it was reached,
seem to us strictly to conform both to the letter and spirit of
the law governing the subject.
This conclusion disposes of the substance of the case, as it
sustains the rulings of the Circuit Court upon the main question. There were other exceptions to the charge, and to the
refusal of the court, to give instructions asked for by the plaintiff in error; but they are either covered by what has already
been said, or seem to us not necessary to be specially mentioned. A point was raised as to certain items claimed to be
included in the sum for which these certificates were issued,
which, in the view we have taken, becomes immaterial; for, as
we have decided that the jury could only consider the earnings
realized in fact during the operation of the law from 1862 to
1869, it was immaterial what items existing prior to that period
were also included in the aggregate sum for which the certificates were issued. Some exception also was taken to some

STEAMISHIP (o.

v. TUGMAN.

[Sup. Ot.

comment on the part of the circuit judge as to the state of the
evidence, but, in our opinion, the question which the jury had
to decide was left to them fairly.
Judgment affrmed.
Mi. JusTcE HARLAN dissented.

STEAXSHiP COmPANY

v. TUGMA_".

1. The members of a foreign corporation, when it sues or is sued in a court of
the United States, are conclusively presumed to be citizens or subjects of
the State or country which created it.
2. The citizenship of the parties, if it be shown by the record, need not be set out
in the petition for the removal of a suit from the State court to the Circuit
Court of the United States.
3. Upon the filing of the requisite petition and bond in a suit which is removable,
the State court is absolutely divested of jurisdiction of such suit, and its
subsequent orders are coram non judice, unless its jurisdiction be, in some
form, actually restored.
4. A failure to file the transcript within the time prescribed by the statute does
not restore that jurisdiction, and the Circuit Court must determine whether,
in the absence of a complete transcript, or when one has not been filed in
proper time, it will retain jurisdiction, or dismiss the suit, or remand it to
the State court.
5. A party having filed his petition and bond for the removal of a suit pending
in a State court, the court ruled that the suit was not removable, but
should there proceed. He subsequently consented to an order requiring the
issues to be heard and determined by a referee, and thenceforward, until
'final judgment, contested the case as well before the referee as in the
courts of the State. Held, 1. That the jurisdiction of the State court was
not thereby restored, and that his consent to the order of reference must be
construed as merely denoting a preference for that mode of trial. 2. That
his objection to the exercise of jurisdiction by the referee and the State
court, after he had filed his petition and bond, added nothing to the legal
strength of his position on the question of removal.

Ei RoR to the Supreme Court of the State of New York.
This action was commenced on the 23d of June, 1875, by
Tugman, against the National Steamship Company, which his
complaint alleges to be "a foreign corporation, having an
office or general manager and place of business in the city of
New York." The summons and complaint were served on the
company's agent in New York on the succeeding day.

