Oct. 1882.]

MCGINTY V. PLANNAGAN.

M OGINTY v. FLANNAGAN.
The court below instructed the jury that it was the duty of a surviving member
of a firm to convert its property into money, collect debts due to it, and first
apply them to the payment of its debts due, and that if he mingled the goods
of the firm with his own so that they could not be identified, he rendered his
own liable for the firm debts; and that the application of the proceeds of the
goods to the payment of his individual debts was a fraud upon the firm creditors. Held, that the instruction was erroneous.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr.Alfred B. Pittman for the plaintiff in error.
Hr.Jefferson Chandler and Mr. William -K. Ingersoll for the
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action which arose in the course of the proceedings
considered in _itzpatrick v. Plannagan,ante, p. 648. Edward
McGinty, the plaintiff in error, having in that cause appeared
as a claimant of the goods seized under the attachment, the
same was delivered by the marshal to him, on his giving a
bond conditioned, should his claim not be sustained, to pay to
the plaintiffs in the attachment such damages as might be
awarded against him, or to return the goods. Thereupon, in
accordance with the statutory practice in such cases in Mississippi, an issue was joined between the plaintiffs in attachment
and him, to try their respective titles to the property. Upon
this issue, evidence was submitted by the parties, tending to
show substantially the same state of facts as appears in the
principal case.
The court refused to give instructions asked on his behalf,
and in lieu thereof, among others not necessary to be considered, gave the following: "2. It was the duty of J. J. Fitzpatrick, as such surviving
partner, to sell and convert into money the goods and property
belonging to said firm, and to collect the debts due the firm,
and first apply the same to the payment of the debts due by
the firm, and not to mingle the same with his own goods, so

MOGINTY V. PLANNAGAN.

.[Sup.

Ot.

that they could not be identified, he being by law created a
trustee for this purpose; but if he mingled them with other
goods, so that they could not be identified, he thereby rendered
his own goods liable for the delbts of the firm, or [as?] those
originally owned by the firm; and if he applied the proceeds
of the sale of such goods, either originally owned by the firm
or those afterwards purchased and mixed up with them, so
that they could not be identified, to the payment of his private
debts, such disposition operated as a fraud upon the rights of
the creditors of the firm of which he was surviving partner, and
as to him rendered the sale void."
There was a verdict and judgment for the plaintiffs in the attachment, which are brought into review by this writ of error.
The charge above quoted goes further than that which was
considered and adjudged to be erroneous in the principal case.
For here the jury were instructed that it was a fraud upon
partnership creditors to apply to the payment of individual
debts goods belonging to the surviving partner, which never
belonged to the partnership, but were his own individual property, merely because they had been mingled with the stock
formerly belonging to the firm. This is an error, in any view
that can be taken of the rights of the parties. Even on the
supposition that the partnership stock was held under an express and positive trust for partnership creditors, equity would
give the latter only so much of the fund as represented the
partnership property, and would divide it as to values between
the parties beneficially interested, even although the specific
goods might not be separable.
This being so, it could hardly be charged, as a matter of
law, that an appropriation of the mingled stock to the extent
of a value no greater than would be allowed in equity to individual creditors, in marshalling the assets for distribution
between them and the creditors of the partnership, amounted
to a fraud upon the latter.
For this, as well as for reasons stated in the opinion in the
former case between the original parties, we hold this instruction to be erroneous.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded with instructions to
grant a new trial.

