IN RE WASIINGTON & GEORGETOWN R'D CO.

91

Syllabus.

learned physician, as to the cause of his death, who saw the
person spoken of shortly before his death, and who had per,sonal knowledge of the person for some time previous to his
death. Especially must that weight be given to this statement
when, as in this case, the person who made the certificate, Dr.
Rae, testifies before you that he adheres now to the opinion
he expressed in that paper." And in the refusals to charge
:specifically on the question, as prayed by the defendant, the
court did not depart from this general charge in any material
respect. We think the charge as given embodies the law of
the case on the point at issue, and, therefore, that the objections to it are without avail.
Upon the whole case we do not think that the defendant
-was in any manner prejudiced by any of the rulings of the
court on the trial of the case. It may be that if we were to
usurp the functions of the jury and determine the weight to
be given to the evidence, we might arrive at a different conclusion. But that is not our province on a writ of error. In
such a case we are confined to the consideration of exceptions,
taken at the trial, to the admission or rejection of evidence
and to the charge of the court and its refusals to charge. We
have no concern with questions of fact, or the weight to be
given to the evidence which was properly admitted. Minor
v Tillotson, 2 How 392, 393, Zeller's Lessee v Eckert, 4 How
289, .D rst v .Aorrms, 14 Wall. 484, 490, P'entice v Zane, 8
Htow 470, 485, Wilson v Everett, 139 U S. 616.
Judgment aftirned.

n, 'e WASHINGTON AND GEORGETOWN RAILROAD COMPANY
OiIGINAL.
No.8.

Original. Argued April 13, 14,1891. -Decided

April 27,1891.

A judgment in an action of tort, for damages and costs, was rendered in
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, at special term. It was
affirmed by the general term, with costs. The latter judgment was
a

OCTOBER TERM111, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.
affirmed by this court, with costs. Nqothing was said about interest in
either of the three judgments. On the presentation of the mandate of
this court to the general term, it entered a judgment for the payment
of the judgment of the special term, with interest on it at the rate of six
per cent per annum from the time it was originally rendered. Held, that
the judgment on the mandate should have followed the judgment of this
court and not have allowed interest.
As the amount of the interest was not large enough to warrant a writ of
error, the proper remedy was by mandamus, there being no other
adequate remedy, and there being no discretion to be exercised by the
inferior court.
This court does not decide whether a judgment founded on tort bears or
ought to bear interest, in the Supreme Court. of the District of Columbia,
from the date of its rendition.
The fact that the judgment of this court merely affirmed the judgment of
the general term with costs, and said nothing about interest, is to be
taken as a declaration of tins court that, upon the record as presented to
it, no interest was to be allowed.
A mandamus was issued to the general term, commanding it to vacate its
judgment so far as concerned the interest, and to enter a judgment on
the mandate, affirming its prior judgment, with costs, without more.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

21r .Enoch Totten and -Mrf Walter -D Davzdge for the
petitioner.
-2 C. C. Cole and -Yr William A. Cook opposing.
W I. Cole was on their brief.
LR. JUSTICE BLANCHFo D

-Yr

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 16th of January, 1884, Lewis HI. MleDade brought
an action at law in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia against the Washington and Georgetown Railroad
Company, to recover damages for personal injuries alleged to
have been inflicted upon him in consequence of the negligence
of the employes of the company, and of the unfit character
and condition of the machinery used in the shops of the company where McDade was employed at the time he sustained
the injuries. The cause was put at issue, and a trial was had
before a jury, which resulted in a verdict for the plaintiff, on the
18th of December, 1885, for $6195. Upon that verdict a judg-

IN IE WASHINGTON & GEORGETOW N R'D CO.

93

Opinion of the Court.

ment was entered on the same day, in special term, that the
plaintiff recover against the defendant $6195 for his damages.
and that he also recover his costs of suit, and have execution
thereof. The defendant filed a motion for a new trial on a
bill of exceptions, and the case was heard by the general term
of the court, which, on the 28th of June, 1886, affirmed the
judgment with costs. 5 Mackey, 144. Nothing was said in
either of the judgments about interest. The defendant brought
the case to this court by a writ of error, and, on the 19th of
May, 1890, it affirmed the judgment of the general term.
Washzngton &c. Railroad Co. v fcDade, 135 U. S. 554.
The judgment of this court, in terms, was, that the judgment
of the general term, of June 28, 1886, "be and it is hereby
affirmed, with costs to be taxed by the clerk, and that the
plaintiff have execution thereof." Nothing was said about
interest.
The mandate of this.court, issued May 27, 1890, recited the
judgment of the general term and contained the judgment of
this court, and then commanded the Supreme Court of the
District "that such execution and proceedings be had in said
cause as, according to right and justice and the laws of the
United States, ought to be had, the said writ of error notwithstanding." Afterwards, the mandate was presented to the
Supreme Court of the District in general term, and a motion
was made to it, on behalf of McDade, to enter up a judgment against the railroad company for interest on the judoment of the special term at the rate of six per cent per annum
thereon from the 18th of December, 1885. On the 9th of
June, 1890, the court decided the motion in fav6r of McDade,
and on that day entered up a judgment, against the railroad
company for the payment of the judgment, with interest on it
according to the terms of the motion. The mandate was filed
on the same day, and the terms of the order made thereon by
the general term were, that McDade have execution of his judgment against the railroad company rendered by the special
term, to wit, the sum of $6195, "with interest thereon from the
date thereof until paid," and the costs of the plaintiff in the suit
in the Supreme Court of the District, to be taxed by the clerk.

OCTOBER TER-M, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The railroad company, at the time of the making of that
order, objected and excepted to the judgment in open court.
It thereupon, on the 23d of June, 1890, filed in the office of
the clerk of this court a petition setting forth the foregoing
facts and praying for a writ of mandamus to the Supreme
Court of the District, commanding it to vacate the judgment
of June 8, 1890, so far as it related to interest on the judgment of December 18, 1885, and to enter a judgment on the
mandate of this court in accordance with its terms, that is
to say, a judgment affirming the judgment of the general
term of June 28, 1886, with costs, without more.
On that petition, on application of the railroad company,
this court made an order, at its present term, requiring the
Supreme Court of the District to show cause why the writ of
mandamus prayed for should not issue. A return to this order
has been filed, in which the latter court states, that by the
mandate it was commanded that such execution and proceedings be had in the cause as, according to right and justice and
the laws of the United States, ought to be had, and that the
order of June 9, 1890, was passed in the cause because the
court sitting in general term believed said order was in accordance with right and justice and the laws of the United States,
and it annexes, as its reasons for passing the order, the opimon
of the general term, composed of Justices iHagner, Cox and
James, 18 Washington Law Reporter, 719, delivered June 9,
1890, by Mr. Justice ilagner.
We are of opinion that the writ of mandamus prayed for
must be granted, irrespectively of the question largely discussed at the bar and considered in the opinion of the general
term, as to whether a judgment founded on tort bears or ought
to bear interest, in the Supreme Court of the District, from
the date of its rendition.
Upon the hearing on the writ of error, which resulted in the
judgment and mandate of this court, the question of the allowance of interest on the judgment from its date until it should
be paid was a question for the consideration of this court.
The, fact that the judgment of this court merely affirmed the
judgment of the general term with costs, and said nothing

IN RE WASHINGTON & GEORGETOWN R'D CO.

95

Opinion of the Court.

about interest, is to be taken as a declaration of this court
that, upon the record as presented to it, no interest was to be
allowed. It was thereupon the duty of the general term to
enter a judgment strictly in accordance with the judgment
of this court, and not to add to it the allowance of interest.
The judgment of the general term of June 28, 1886, made
no allowance of interest, nor did the judgment of the special
term of December 18, 1885. Those were the judgments which
were affirmed by this court, and it affirmed them as not providing for any interest, and this court did not itself award
any interest. The command of the mandate of this court,
"that such execution and proceedings be had in said cause as,
according to right and justice and the laws of the United
States, ought to be had, the said writ of error notwithstanding," did not authorize the general term of the Supreme
Court of the District to depart in any respect from the judgment of this court. Under these circumstances, the general
term had no authority to make its order of June 9, 1890, in
regard to interest on the judgment.
The amount of such interest calculated at the rate of six
per cent per annum from December 18, 1885, to June 9, 1890,
was not quite $1700. The amount involved was, therefore,
too small to be the subject of a writ of error from this court.
The only relief which the railroad company could obtain in
the premises was, therefore, by a writ of mandamus. A mandamus will lie to correct such an error, where there is no other
adequate remedy, and where there is no discretion to be exercised by the inferior court. Sibbald v. Unided States, 12 Pet.
irginta v. Rives,
arte Bradley, 7 Wall. 364, 376,
•488, E
100 U. S.313, 329.
In Perkns v. Fourn''quet, 14 How 328, 330, the Circuit
Court bad failed to carry out the mandate of this court, and
the matter was brought to this court by an appeal. A motion
having been made to dismiss the appeal on the ground that it
would not lie, this court said "This objection to the form of
proceeding involves nothing more than a question of practice.
The mandate from this court left nothing to the judgment
and discretion of the Circuit Court, but directed it to carry

OCTOBER TERMT, 1890.
Opmlon of the Court.

into execution the decree of this court, which was recited in
the mandate. And if the decree of this court has been misunderstood or misconstrued, by the court below, to the injury of
either party, we see no valid objection to an appeal to this
court, in order to have the error corrected. The question is
merely as to the form of proceeding which this court should
adopt, to enforce the execution of its own mandate in the
court below The subject might, without doubt, be brought
before us upon motion, and a mandamus issued to compel its
execution. But an appeal from the decision of the court below
is equally convenient and suitable."
The principle has been well established, in numerous cases,
that, on a mandate from this court, containing a specific direction to the inferior court to enter a specific judgment, the latter court has no authority to do anything but to execute the
mandate. Exparte Dubuque & Pac~jc Railroad,1 Wall. 69,
Durant v .Essex Company, 101 U. S. 555, 556.
The case of Boyce's Executors v Grundy, 9 Pet. 275, is very
much in point. In that case, this court had entered a decree
simply affirming the decree below with costs, and had sent
down a mandate commanding the inferior court, in the terms
of the mandate in the present case, "that such executmon.and
proceedings be had in said cause as, according to right and
justice and the laws of the United- States, ought to be had, the
said appeal notwithstanding." On receiving the mandate, the
court below varied its former decree, and, among other things,
awarded an additional amount of money intended to be interest
upon the original sum decreed, from the time of the rendition
of the decree in the court below to, the time of the affirmance in this gourt. This court, on appeal, after referring to
the statute which authorized it, in case of affirmance, to award
to the respondent just damages for his delay, and to the rules
of this court, made in 1803 and 1807, prescribing an award of
damages in cases where the suit in this court is for mere delay,
said "It is, therefore, solely for the decision of the Supreme
Court whether any damages or interest (as a part thereof) are
to be allowed or not in cases of affirmance. If upon the
affirmance no allowance of interest or damages is made, it is

IN RE WASHINGTO

& GEORGETOWN R'D CO.

97

Opnion of the Court.

equivalent to a denial of any interest or damages, and the
Circuit Court, in carrying into effect the decree of affirmance,
cannot enlarge the amount thereby decreed, but is limited to
the mere execution of the decree in the terms in which it is
expressed. A decree of the Circuit Court allowing interest in
such a case is, to all intents and purposes, quoad hoc, a new
decree, extending the former decree," citing HiRmely v Rose,
5 Cranch, 313, and The Santa .Afaa, 10 Wheat. 431, 442.
See, also, Bank of United States v itoss, 6 How 31.
We do not consider the question as to whether interest was
allowable by law, or rule, or statute, on the original judgment
of the special term, or whether it would have been proper for
the special term, in rendering the judgment, or otherwise, to
have allowed interest upon it, or whether it would have been
proper for the general term to do so, but we render our decision solely upon the point that, as neither the special term nor
the general term allowed interest on the judgment, and as
this court awarded no interest in its judgment of affirmance,
all that the general term could do, after the mandate of this
court went down, was to enter a judgment carrying out the
mandate according to its terms, and simply affirming the prior
judgment of the general term, and directing execution of the
judgment of the special term of December 18, 1885, with costs,
and without interest, and of the judgment of the general term
of June 28, 1886, for costs.
A wrzt of mandamus s granted, commanding the general
terra to vacate its judgment of June 9, 1890, in favor of
AteoDade aganst the railroadcompany, so far as the same
r'elates to'interestupon the judgment of the .special terra of
.December 18, 1885, and to enter a judgment on tlhe mandate of this court of .May 27, 1890, zn accordancewzth Its
terms, that s to say, a judgment affirming the judgment
of the general term of June 28, 1886, wth costs, without
more.

i. JusTiE BREwEt did not sit in this case, or take any part
in its decision.
VOL. cxL-7

