IN RE RAHIRER.
Syllabus.

There is nothing in United States v Weld, 127 U. S. 51, that
militates against the view herein presented. In that case it
was held that, as respects the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims to entertain the suit against the United States under
section 1066, Rev Stat., the claim must be regarded as growing out of the act of 1882, because that act furnished the
remedy by which the rights of the claimant might be enforced.
But that is an entirely different proposition from the one contended for here by the defendants in error, that the claim was
created by that act.
In our opinion this case falls within the principles of Comegys
v. Tasse and Phelps v MAcDonald, and the judgment of the
court below is
1?eversed, and the cause remanded for furter proceedings
not 'mnconsistent with th6W opm2on.
MR. JUsTIcE BRADLEY was not present at the argument, and
took no part in the decision.

re RAHRER, Petitioner.
rI
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 1529. Argued Marcb 17,1891.-Decided May 25, 1891.

The act of August 8, 1890, 26 Stat. 313, c. 728, enacting "that all fermented, distilled or other intoxicating liquors or liquids transported
into any State or Territory or remaining therein for use, consumption,
sale or storage therein, shall upon arrival in such State or Territory be
subject to the operation and effect of the laws of such State or Territory
enacted in the exercise of its police powers, to the same extent and in
the same manner as though such liquids or liquors had been produced in
such State or Territory, and shall not be exempt therefrom by reason of
being introdiuced therein in original packages or otherwise" is a valid and
constitutional exercise of the legislative power conferred upon Congress;
and, after that act took effect, such liquors or liquids, introduced into a
State or Territory from another State, whether in original packages or
otherwise, became subject to the operation of such of its then existing
VrOL. cxL-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.
laws as had been properly enacted in the exercise of its police powers among which was the statute in question as applied to the petitioner's
offence.

THis was an application for a writ of habeas cogpus made to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kansas by Charles A. Rahrer, who alleged in his petition that he
was illegally and wrongfully restrained of his liberty by John
M. Wilkerson, sheriff of Shawnee County, Kansas, in violation
of the Constitution of the United States.
The writ was issued, and return having been made thereto,
the cause was heard on the following agreed statement of
facts
"It is understood and agreed by and between the attorneys
for the petitioner herein and the respondent that the aboveentitled application to be discharged upon writ of habeas corpus shall be heard and decided upon the following facts,
namely
"That H. C. Maynard and Lisle Hopkins are citizens and
residents of the State of Missouri, and are partners doing business at Kansas City, in the State of Missouri, under the firm
name of Maynard, Hopkins & Co., that said Maynard, Hopkins & Co. are and were at all the times herein mentioned
doing a general wholesale business in Kansas City, in the
State of Missouri, in the sale of intoxicating liquors, that said
Maynard, Hopkins & Co. do a general business of packing and
shipping intoxicating liquors from their place of business in
Kansas City, in the State of Missouri, to various points in the
State of Kansas and other States, that in June, 1890, the said
Maynard, Hopkins & Co. constituted and appointed the petitioner herein, Charles Rahrer, a citizen of the United States,
their lawful agent in the city of Topeka, in the State of Kansas, to sell and dispose of for them in original packages liquors
shipped by the said Maynard, Hopkins & Co. from the State
of Missouri to Topeka, in the State of Kansas, that in July,
1890, the said Maynard, Hopkins & Co. shipped to the city of
Topeka, in the State of Kansas, from Kansas City, in the State
of Missouri, a car-load of intoxicating liquors packed by them
and shipped from Kansas City, in the State of Missouri, in

IN

RE RAIRRER.

Statement of the Case.

original packages, which car-load of intoxicating liquors so
shipped was taken charge of by the petitioner herein, Charles
IRahrer, at Topeka, in the State of Kansas, as the agent of
Maynard, Hopkins & Co., that on the 9th day of August,
1890, the said Charles Rahrer, as agent of the said Maynard,
Hopkins & Co., offered for sale and sold in the original package a portion of said liquor, so shipped by the said Maynard,
Hopkins & Co., to wit, one pony keg of beer, being a fourgallon keg, which keg was in the same condition in which it
was shipped from Kansas City, in the State of Missouri, to
Topeka, in the State of Kansas, that said keg of beer was
separate and distinct from all other kegs of beer so shipped,
and was shipped as a separate and distinct package by Maynard, Hopkins & Co. from Kansas City, in the State of Missouri.
"That the petitioner, Charles A. Rahrer, on the 9th day of
August, 1890, offered for sale and sold one pint of whiskey,
which was a portion of the liquor shipped by Maynard, Hopkins & Co., as above *stated, that said pint of whiskey was sold
in the same condition in which it was shipped from the State
of Misseiur and received in the State of Kansas, that it was
separate and distinct from every other package of liquor so
shipped, and was sold in the same package in which it was
received, being securely enclosed in a wooden box of sufficient
size to hold said pint bottle of whiskey
"It is further agreed that Charles A. Rahrer, the petitioner
herein, was not the owner of said liquor, but was simply acting
as the agent of Maynard, Hopkins & Co., who were the owners of said liquor.
"That on the 21st day of August, 1890, there was filed in
the office of the clerk of the District Court of Shawnee
County, Kansas, an information by R. B. Welch, county attorney of said county, together with affidavit of Otis M.
Capron and John C. Butcher, appended and attached thereto
and in support thereof, taken under sec. 2543, General Statutes of 1889, charging the said Charles A. Rahrer with violating the prohibitory liquor law of the State of Kansas by
making the two sales hereinbefore mentioned. A copy of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

,said information and affidavits so filed is attached to the return
of the respondent herein and is hereby referred to and made a
part hereof, that the petitioner herein, Charles A. Rahrer,
was arrested upon a warrant issued upon the information and
affidavit heretofore referred to and is held in custody by the
respondent, John M. Wilkerson, sheriff of Shawnee County,
by reason of said information so filed and said warrant so
issued, and not otherwise.
"Said Charles A. Rahrer was not a druggist and did not
have, nor did his principals, Maynard, Hopkins & Co., have,
any druggist's permit at the time of making the said sales of
intoxicating liquor hereinbefore mentioned, nor had he or they
ever made any application for a druggist's permit to the probate judge of Shawnee County, Kansas, before making such
sales of intoxicating liquor as aforesaid. The said sales of intoxicating liquors were not made by said Charles A. Rahrer
upon a printed or written affidavit of the applicant for such
intoxicating liquors, as required under the prohibitory laws of
the State of Kansas.
"A copy of the warrant under and by virtue of which the
respondent, John M. Wilkerson, sheriff of Shawnee Qounty,
holds the said Charles A. Rahrer is attached to the return of
the respondent and is hereby referred to and made a part
hereof.
"The recent act of Congress relating to intoxicating liquors,
and known as the 'Wilson bill' was signed by the President
on August 8, A.D. 1890."
The Circuit Court discharged the petitioner, and the case
was brought to this court by appeal. The opinion will be
found in 43 Fed. Rep. 556.
The constitution of Kansas provides "The manufacture
and sale of intoxicating liquors shall be forever prohibited in
this State, except for medical, scientific and mechanical purposes." 1 Gen. Stat. Kansas, 1889, p. 107. The sections of
the Kansas statutes claimed to have been violated by the petitioner are as follows
"Any person or persons who shall manufacture, sell or barter any spirituous, malt, vinous, fermented or other intoxicat-

IN

RE RAHRER.

Counsel for Appellant.

ing liquors, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and punished
as hereinafter provided Provided,however, That such liquors
may be sold for medical, scientific and mechanical purposes,
as provided in this act.
"It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell or
barter for medical, scientific or mechanical purposes, any malt,
vinous, spirituous, fermented or other intoxicating liquors,
without first having procured a druggist permit therefor from
the probate judge of the county wherein such druggist may
be doing business at the time," etc.
"Any person without taking out and having a permit to sell
intoxicating liquors, as provided in this act, or any person not
lawfully and in good faith engaged in the business of a druggist, who shall directly or indirectly sell or barter any spirituous, malt, vinous, fermented or other intoxicating liquors,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined in any sum not less than one hundred
dollars nor more than five hundred dollars and be imprisoned
in the county jail not less than thirty days nor more than
ninety days." 1 Gen. Stat. Kansas, c. 31, §§ 380, 381, 386.
On August 8, 1890, an act of Congress was approved, entitled ",n act to limit the effect of the regulations of commerce
between the several States and with foreign countries in certain cases," which reads. as follows "That all fermented, distilled or other intoxicating liquors or liquids transported into
any State or Territory or remaining therein for use, consumption, sale or storage therein, shall upon arrival in such State or
Territory be subject to the operation and effect of the laws of
such State or Territory enacted in the exercise of its police
powers, to the same extent and in the same manner as though
such liquids or liquors had been produced in such State or Territory, and shall not be exempt therefrom by reason of being
introduced therein in original packages or otherwise." 26
Stat. 313, c.728.
.MY A. L. Williams, Xfr J IV ices and Mr 1?. BI. Welch
for appellant, opposing the petitioner. _Mr L. B. .Kellogg,
Attorney General of Kansas, was with Mr Welch on his brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Petitioner, Appellee.

.MXr Zones J Blum and _Mr .Davd Overmyer for appellee.
Ar Edgar C. Blum was with Mr _outs J Blum on his
brief.
The commerce clause of the Constitution has been frequently
before the court for construction, and the questions as to the
extent of the power granted by it to Congress and its limitations upon state power have been firmly established. In
Gibbons v Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, the court laid down the doctrine
that the power granted to Congress under this clause was exclusive, and an inhibition upon the States. In Sturges v
Crown4nswld, 4 Wheat. 122, it was held that whenever the
terms in which a power is granted to Congress, or the nature
of the power, require that it shall be exercised exclusively by
Congress, the subject is completely taken away from the state
legislatures. See also Cooley v Board of TFardens, 12 How
299, Lemey v Hardin, 135 U S. 100, Lyng v .Miohtg'an,135
U S. 161, AXcCall v 0aliforni, 136 U S. 104, _Norfolk &
TFestern Railroadv. Pennylvanza, 136 U. S. 114, -Minnesota
v Barber, 136 U. S. 313.
Whether liquor, as an article of interstate commerce,
belongs to the class subject to the exclusive control of Congress, or to that which may be regulated by the States, is not
an open question. The State of Iowa enacted a statute forbidding common carriers to bring liquors into the State, unless
consigned to a party holding a permit from the local authorities. The court held that the article in question belonged to
commerce within the exclusive power of Congress, and that,
as the statute in question was a regulation of such commerce,
it was void. Bowman v Chwago & NYorthwestern Railway,
125 U S. 465. Subsequently it was decided that the right to
import liquor into the State -a right which the State had in
vain sought to destroy -included the right to sell it in the
condition in which it was imported. Leisy v. Hardin,supra.
The statutes of Iowa referred to, and the statutes of Kansas
in question, are similar in terms, and, by these decisions all
must have been alike affected.
Admitting for the purpose of the argument, that the act of

IN RE RAIRER.
Argument for Petitioner, Appellee.

Congress is a valid enactment, has it any effect upon the existlng statute 2
The statute in question virtually embraced two provisions;
one regulating the internal commerce in liquor, the other applying to imported liquor. The latter was void when passed,
but it is claimed that, by virtue of the terms of the act of Congress, there is now in force a state law prohibiting the sale of
imported liquor, and the statute in question is relied upon in
support of this contention. 'Upto the time of the passage of
that act there was no such state law as the one claimed. When
the court held the statute to be unconstitutional, so far as it
applied to imported liquor, it decided in effect that the statute
should never have been enacted, and that in law it never had
been enacted. "An unconstitutional act is not a law
It is in legal contemplation as though it had never been
passed." Nartom v Shelby County, 118 U. S. 425. No other
statute relating to imported liquor having thereafter been
passed, there is no state law on the subject, and if, as is
claimed, such a law has been created by the act of Congress,
we have here a state law, enacted by the national legislature.
It may be said that the state statute in question in effect
contains two provisions, and that the act of Congress is not
designed to revive the provision relating to imported liquors,
but seeks merely to extend the operation of the provision prohibiting the sale of domestic liquors, so as to embrace interstate commerce. If this is its intent, aside from the question
as to the constitutional power of Congress to do this, the
statute is more clearly subject to the objection that Congress
cannot legislate directly for the States. If the State enacts a
law covering one subject, and Congress then provides that the
state law shall cover another and an entirely different subject,
what is the statute, as changed 2 Unless it is intended to
adopt the statc law, and thus make it a law of Congress, the
statute is clearly a new state law, enacted by Congress, under
the police power of the State. Congress may, undoubtedly,
afford a freer scope to the operation of state laws than they
could otherwise obtain, but the state laws so acted upon by
Congress must be valid laws, and relate to a subject within the
control of Congress.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Petitioner, Appellee.

Before Congress acted there was no law of Kansas prohibiting the sale of imported liquor in its original package, there

was no power in the State to enact it. Such a law, if there is
any, owes its existence entirely to Congress, and, as Congress cannot legislate for the States, but can only make a,
state law a Federal measure by adoption, it necessarily follows
that Congress has adopted the state statute in question.
If this statute has, by adoption, become a law of the United
States, then an offence against it is pumshable only in the
Federal courts, and the state courts have no jurisdiction. Yet
the Federal courts have no authority to punish the offence.
But Congress has no power to adopt this statute because it
is not a fit subject for adoption. It is not now a law, nor has
it ever to any legal purpose or intent had any existence. It
would be just as reasonable, and as constitutional, for Congress to adopt, or legalize, the act of an individual claiming
sovereign power, as to adopt a statute enacted by a legislature
without authority If it has been done in this instance, it is
certainly an original and extraordinary mode of legislation,
without precedent in congressional records. If, for example,
some enterprising State should by statute create a national
bank, and Congress should assent to the statute, would the
bank have a legal existence
The case supposed would
be analogous to the one at bar, it being in either case an
attempt by the State to exercise the power of Congress to
regulate interstate commerce, and an attempt by Congress
to give existence to such legislation. The principles that can
sustain the one will certainly justify the other. If we separate the valid from the void part of the statute, we find
remaining only a statute confined to a subject within the
exclusive control of the State, and Congress cannot adopt a
state law having no relation to its own powers.
Before the passage of this bill the States had exhausted all
their resources to bring the interstate commerce in liquor
within their jurisdiction, and in vain. Towards the attainment of this end, the aid of Congress was then invoked, resulting in the enactment of this measure. But the commerce
clause of the Constitution vests in Congress an exclusive power

IN RE RAHRER.
Argument for Petitioner, Appellee.

to regulate interstate commerce of a national character, and
the commerce in question here is of that character.
Here, then, is a law of Congress, conferring upon the States
an authority to exercise the very power denied them by the
Constitution. While Congress was doubtless actuated by
worthy motives, and certainly cannot be chargeable with the
design to defy the Constitution from which it derives its own
existence and authority, we respectfully submit that such is
the effect of its action. This conclusion is certainly irresistible, unless we find in the Constitution itself some provision
enabling Congress to extend the state power in this regard,
or to delegate to the States its own power to regulate this
branch of interstate commerce. But, the United States and
the States being distinct governments, sovereign and supreme
within their respective spheres, and both alike being controlled by the Federal Constitution, it follows that the power
of neither can be extended by the other.
Counsel for appellant says that the grant of power to Congress to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among
the States is without limitation other than the discretion of
Congress, and from that fact infers that its grant of power to
the States by the act of 1890 is authorized because not expressly forbidden by the Constitution. It is true the grant
of power to Congress is without limitations other than those
prescribed by the Constitution, but the delegation of authority
to the State is one of the limitations prescribed by the Constitution. The commercial power of Congress is not exceptional in this respect, every Federal power is subject to no
limitation other than the requirements of the Constitution.
It would appear to be settled beyond all doubt, that the
Constitution provides or allows no means by which a State
can be enabled to legislate with respect to foreign or interstate commerce. That it does not possess the power as an
attribute of its sovereignty, is certain. That Congress cannot
confer or delegate to it this power, is no less clear. If, therefore, the act of 1890 subjects an article of interstate commerce to the state jurisdiction, what claim has it to validity ?
That it does subject an article of interstate commerce to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

state jurisdiction, admits of no doubt, for if the State statutes
are to have any effect upon imported liquors, they are, to that
extent, commercial regulations, and -this was the express
point decided in the case of Bowman v Chwago & lNortkwestern Railway Co., 125 U. S. 465.
The power to regulate commerce includes the right to
determine what is commerce, subject to regulation. The
latter power is incidental to the former; is, in fact, a component and essential part of it. If Congress can delegate a
part of its commercial power to the States, it can certainly
delegate any other part, and therefore the whole. This
power is not withheld by the Constitution from the States in
fractions, but as an entirety
If, therefore, Congress can
allow the States to determine whether or not imported liquor
shall be an article of commerce, subject to the power of Congress, it may delegate its entire commercial power to the
States. In fact, it would be better to transfer its power, as
a whole, than to leave it in this uncertain condition, subject
to the varying policy of each particular State.
MR. CHiEF JUsTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The power of the State to impose restraints and burdens
upon persons and property in conservation and promotion of
the public health, good order and prosperity, is a power originally and always belonging to the States, not surrendered by
them to the general government nor directly restrained by
the Constitution of the United States, and essentially
exclusive.
And this court has uniformly recognized state legislation,
legitimately for police purposes, as not in the sense of the
Constitution necessarily infringing upon any rfght which has
been confided expressly or by implication to the national
government.
The Fourteenth Amendment, in forbidding a State to make
or enforce any law abridging the privileges or immunities of
citizens of the United States, or to deprive any person of life,

IN RE RAHRER.
Opimon of the Court.

liberty or property without due process of law, or to deny
to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of
the laws, did not invest, and did not attempt to invest Congress with power to legislate upon subjects which are within
the domain of state legislation.
As observed by Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the opinion
of the court in the Civil itghts Cases, 109 U. S. 3, 13, the legislation under that amendment cannot "properly cover the
whole domain of rights appertaining to life, liberty and property, defining them and providing for their vindication. That
would be to establish a code of municipal law regulative of
all private rights between man and man in society It would
be to make Congress take the place of the state legislatures
and to supersede them. It is absurd to affirm that, because
the rights of life, liberty and property (which include all civil
rights that men have) are by the amendment sought to be
protected against invasion on the part of the State without
due process of law, Congress may therefore provide due process of law for their vindication in every case, and that, because the denial by a State to any persons, of the equal protection of the laws, is prohibited by the amendment, therefore Congress may establish laws for their equal protection."
In short, it is not to be doubted that the power to make the
ordinary regulations of police remains with the individual
States, and cannot be assumed by the National Government,
and that in this respect it is not interfered with by the Fourteenth Amendment. Barbzer v Connolly, 113 U. S.27, 31.
The power of Congress to regulate commerce among the
several States, when the subjects of that power are national in
their nature, is also exclusive. The Constitution does not provide that interstate commerce shall be free, but, by the grant
of this exclusive power to regulate it, it was left free except as
Congress might impose restraint. Therefore, it has been determined that the failure of Congress to exercise this exclusive power in any case is an expression of its will that the
subject shall be free from restrictions or impositions upon it
by the several States. _obbms v Shelby Taxing .D1stret,120
U. S.489. And if a law passed by a State in the exercise of

OCTOBER TERI,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

its acknowledged powers comes into conflict with that will,
the Congress and the State cannot occupy the position of
equal opposing sovereignties, because the Constitution declares its supremacy and that of the laws passed in pursuance
thereof. Gibbons v Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 210. That which is
not supreme must yield to that which is supreme. Br.own v
.aryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 448.
"Commerce, undoubtedly, is traffic," said Chief Justice
]Marshall, "but it is something more, it is intercourse. It
describes the commercial intercourse between nations and
parts of nations in all its branches, and is regulated by prescribing rules for carrying on that intercourse." Unquestionably, fermented, distilled or other intoxicating liquors or
liquids are subjects of commercial intercourse, exchange, barter and traffic, between nation and nation, and between State
and State, like any other commodity in which a right of traffic
exists, and are so recognized by the usages of the commercial
world, the laws of Congress and the decisions of courts.
Nevertheless, it has been often held that state legislation
which prohibits the manufacture of spirituous, malt, vinous,
fermented or other intoxicating liquors within the limits
of a State, to be there sold or bartered for general use as a
beverage, does not necessarily infringe any right, privilege or
immunity secured by the Constitution of the United States or
by the amendments thereto.
Hugler v RJansas, 123 U. S.
623, and cases cited. "These cases," in the language of the
opinion in Mugler v .Kansas(p. 659,) "rest upon the acknowledged right of the States of the Union to control their purely
internal affairs, and, in so doing, to protect the health, morals,
and safety of their people by regulations that do not interfere
with the execution of the powers of the general government,
or violate rights secured by the Constitution of the United
States. The power to establish such regulations, as. was said
in Gibbons v Odgen, 9 Wheat. 1, 203, reaches everything
within the territory of a State not surrendered to the national
government."

But it was not thought in that case that the

record presented any question of the invalidity of state laws,
because repugnant to the power to regulate commerce among

IN RE RAHRER.
Opinion of the Court.

the States. It is upon the theory of such repugnancy that the
case before us arises, and involves the distinction which exists
between the commercial power and the police power, which
"though quite distinguishable when they do not approach
each other, may yet, like the intervening colors between white
and black, approach so nearly as to perplex the understanding,
as colors perplex the vision in marking the distinction between
them." 12 Wheat. 441.
And here the sagacious observations of Mr. Justice Catron,
in the Lcense Cases, 5 How 599, may profitably be quoted,
as they have often been before "The law and the decision
apply equally to foreign and to domestic spirits, as they must
do on the principles assumed in support of the law The
assumption is, that the police power was not touched by the
Constitution, but left to the States as the Constitution found
it. This is admitted, and whenever a thing, from character
or condition, is of a description to be regulated by that power
in the State, then the regulation may be made by the State,
and Congress cannot interfere. But this must always depend
on facts, subject to legal ascertainment, so that the injured
may have redress. And the fact must find its support in this,
whether the prohibited article belongs to, and is subject to be
regulated as part of, foreign commerce, or of commerce among
the States. If, from its nature, it does not belong to commerce, or if its condition, from putrescence or other cause, is
such when it is about to enter the State that it no longer belongs to commerce, or, m other words, is not a commercial
article, then the state power may exclude its introduction.
And as an incident to this power, a State may use means to
ascertain the fact. And here is the limit between the sovereign power of the State and the Federal power. That is to
say, that which does not belong to commerce is within the
jurisdiction of the police power of the State, and that which
does belong to commerce is within the jurisdiction of the
United States. And to this limit must all the general views
come, as I suppose, that were suggested in the reasoning of
this court in the cases of ribbons v Ogden, Brown v Ehe
State of .Maryland, and Yew York v hl'1v. What, then, is

OCTOBER TERAM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the assumption of the state court 2 Undoubtedly, in effect,
that the State had the power to declare what should be an
article of lawful commerce in the particular State, and, having declared that ardent spirits and wines were deleterious to
morals and health, they ceased to be commercial commodities
there, and that then the police power attached, and consequently the powers of Congress could not interfere. The
exclusive state power is made to rest, not on the fact of the
state or condition of the article, nor that it is property usually
passing by sale from hand to hand, but on the declaration
found in the state laws, and asserted as the state policy, that
it shall be excluded from commerce. And by this means the
sovereign jurisdiction in the State is attempted to be created,
in a case where it did not previously exist. If this be the true
construction of the constitutional provision, then the paramount power of Congress to regulate commerce is subject to a
very material limitation, for it takes from Congress, and
leaves with the States, the power to determine the commodities, or articles of property, which are the subjects of lawful
commerce. Congress may regulate, but the States determine
what shall or shall not be regulated. Upon this theory, the
power to regulate commerce, instead of being paramount over
the subject, would become subordinate to the state police
power, for it is obvious that the power to determine the
articles which may be the subjects of commerce, and thus to
circumscribe its scope and operation, is, in effect, the controlling one. The police power would not only be a formidable
rival, but, in a struggle, must necessarily triumph over the
commercial power, as the power to regulate is dependent upon
the power to fix and determine upon the subjects to be regulated. The same process of legislation and reasoning adopted
by the State and its courts could bring within the police power
any article of consumption that a State might wish to exclude,
whether it belonged to that which was drank, or to food and
clothing, and with nearly equal claims to propriety, as malt
liquors and the produce of fruits other than grapes stand on
no higher grounds than the light wines of this and other
countries, excluded, in effect, by the law as it nosy stands.

IN RE RAHRER.
Opinion of the Court.

And it would be only another step to regulate real or supposed
extravagance in food and clothing. And in this connection it
may be proper to say, that the three States whose laws are
now before us had in view an entire prohibition from use of
spirits and wines of every description, and that their main
scope and object is to enforce exclusive temperance as a policy
of State, under the belief that such a policy will best subserve
the interests of society, and that to this end, more than to
any other, has the sovereign power of these States been
exerted, for it was admitted, on the argument, that no
licenses are issued, and that exclusion exists, so far as the laws
can produce the result, - at least, in some of the States, -and
that this was the policy of the law For these reasons, I think
the case cannot depend on the reserved power in the State to
regulate its own police." And the learned judge reached the
conclusion that the law of New Hampshire, which particularly
raised the question, might be sustained as a regulation of commerce, lawful, because not repugnant to any actual exercise of
the commercial power by Congress. In respect of this the
opposite view has since prevailed, but the argument retains its
force in its bearing upon the purview of the police power as
not concurrent with and necessarily not superior to the commercial power.
The laws of Iowa under consideration in Bowman v .Raiway Company, 125 U. S.465, and letsy v Ramdin, 135 U. S.
100, were enacted in the exercise of the police power of the
State, and not at all as regulations of commerce with foreign
nations and among the States, but as they inhibited the receipt
of an imported commodity, or its disposition before it had
ceased to become an article of trade between one State and
another, or another country and this, they amounted in effect
to a regulation of such commerce. Hence, it was held that
inasmuch as interstate commerce, consisting in the transportation, purchase, sale and exchange of commodities, is national
in its character and must be governed by a uniform system, so
long as Congress did not pass any law to regulate it specifically, or in such way as to allow the laws of the State to operate upon it, Congress thereby indicated its will that such

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opmon of the Court.

commerce should be free and untrammelled, and therefore
that the laws of Iowa, referred to, were inoperative, in so far
as they amounted to regulations of foreign or interstate commerce, in inhibiting the reception of such articles within the
State, or their sale upon arrival, in the form in which they
were imported there from a foreign country or another State.
It followed as a corollary, that when Congress acted at all,
the result of its action must be to operate as a restraint upon
that perfect freedom which its silence insured.
Congress has now spoken, and declared that imported liquors or liquids shall, upon arrival in a State,' fall within the
category of domestic articles of a similar nature. Is the law
open to constitutional objection?
By the first clause of section 10 of Article I of the Constitution, certain powers are enumerated which the States are
forbidden to exercise in any event, and by clauses two and
three, certain others, which may be exercised with the consent
of Congress. As to those in the first class, Congress cannot
relieve from the positive restriction imposed. As to those in
the second, their exercise may be authorized, and they include
the collection of the revenue from imposts and duties on imports and exports, by state enactments, subject to the revision
and control of Congress, and a tonnage duty, to the exaction
of which only the consent of Congress is required. Beyond
this, Congress is not empowered to enable the State to go in
this direction. Nor can Congress transfer legislative powers
to a State nor sanction a state law in violation of the Constitution, and if it can adopt a state law as its own, it must be
one that it would be competent for it to enact itself, and not
a law passed in the exercise of the police power. Cooley v
Port Jardens of Piladelpk'ta,12 How 299, Gunn v Barry,
15 Wall. 610, 623, Unded States v Dewztt, 9 Wall. 41.
It does not admit of argument that Congress can neither
delegate its own powers nor enlarge those of a State. This
being so, it is urged that the act of Congress cannot be sustained as a regulation of commerce, because the Constitution,
in the matter of interstate commerce, operates ex proprzo
wgore as a restraint upon the power of Congress to so regulate

IN RE RAHRER.
Opinion of the Court.

it as to bring any of its subjects within the grasp of the police
power of the State. In other words, it is earnestly contended
that the Constitution guarantees freedom of commerce among
the States in all things, and that not only may intoxicating
liquors be imported from one State into another, without being
subject to regulation under the laws of the latter, but that
Congress is powerless to ob.viate that result.
Thus the grant to the general government of a power
designed to prevent embarrassing restrictions upon interstate
commerce by any State, would be made to forbid any restraint
whatever. We do not concur in this view In surrendering
their own power over external commerce the States did not
secure absolute freedom in such commerce, but only the protection from encroachment afforded by confiding its regulation exclusively to Congress.
By the adoption of the Constitution the ability of the several States to act upon the matter solely in accordance with
their own will was extinguished, and the legislative will of
the general government substituted. No affirmative guaranty
was thereby given to any State of the right to demand as
between it and the others what it could not have obtained
before, while the object was undoubtedly sought to be attained of preventing commercial regulations partial in their
character or contrary to the common interests. And the magnificent growth and prosperity of the country attest the success which has attended the accomplishment of that object.
But this furnishes no support to the position that Congress
could not, in the exercise of the discretion reposed in it, concluding that the common interests did not require entire freedom in the traffic in ardent spirits, enact the law in question.
In so doing Congress has not attempted to delegate the power
to regulate commerce, or to exercise any power reserved to the
States, or to grant a power not possessed by the States, or to
adopt state laws. It has taken its own course and made its
own regulation, applying to these subjects of interstate commerce one common rule, whose uniformity is not affected by
variations in state laws in dealing with such property
The principle upon w~ich local option laws, so called, have
VOL..c

,--36

OCTOBER TERIM, 1890.
- Opinion of the Court.

been-sustained is, that-while the legislature cannot delegate its
power to make a law, it 'can make a law which leaves it to
municipalitie5 or the jeople to determine some fact or state of
things, upon which the action of the law may depend, but
we do not rest the validity of the act of Congress on -this
analogy The power over'interstate commerce, is too vital to
the integrity of the nation to be qualified by any refinement
of reasoning. The power to regulate is solely in the general
government, and it is an essential part of that regulation to
prescribe the regular means for accomplishing the introduction
and incorporation of articles into and with the mass of property in the country or State. 12 Wheat. 448.
No reason is perceived why, if Congress chooses to provide
that certain designated subjects of interstate commerce shall
be governed by a rule which divests them of that character at
an earlier period of time than would otherwise be the case, it
is not within its competency to do so.
The differences of opinion which have existed in this tribunal in many leading cases upon this subject, have arisen, not
from a defiial of the power of Congress, when exercised, but
upon the question whether the inaction of Congress was in
itself equivalent to the affirmative interposition of a bar to
the operation of an undisputed power possessed by the States.
We recall no decision giving color to the idea that when
Congress acted its action would be less potent than when it
kept silent.
The framers of the Constitution never intended that the
legislative power of the nation should find itself incapable of
disposing of a subject matter specifically committed to its
charge. The manner of that disposition brought into deterrnination upon this record involves no ground for adjudging
the act of Congress inoperative and void.
We inquire then whether fermented, distilled, or other intoxicating liquors or liquids transported into the State of Kansas, and there offered for sale and sold, after the passage of
the act, became subject to the operation and effect of the
existing laws of that State in reference to such articles. It is
said that this cannot be so, because, by the decision in Letsy v

IM RE RAHRER.
Opinion of the Court.

Hardin, similar state laws were held unconstitutional, in so
far as they prohibited the sale of liquors by the importer in
the condition in which they had been imported. In that case,
certain beer imported into Iowa had been seized in the original packages or kegs, unbroken and unopened, in the hands of
the importer, and the Supreme Court of Iowa held this seizure to have been lawful under the statutes of the State. We
reversed the judgment upon the ground that the legislation to
the extent indicated, that is to say, as construed to apply to
importations into the State from without and to permit the
seizure of the articles before they had by sale or other transmutation become a part of the common mass of property of
the State, was repugnant to the third clause of section eight
of article one of the Constitution of the United States, in that
it could not be given that operation without bringing it into
collision with the implied exercise of a power exclusively confided to the general government. This was far from holding
that the statutes in question were absolutely void, in whole or
in part, and as if they had never been enacted. On the contrary, the decision did not annul the law, but limited its operation to property strictly within the jurisdiction of the State.
In Clkwago, .Ailwaukee &c. Railway v Minnesota, 134 U. S.
418, it was held that the act of the legislature of the State of
Minnesota of March 7, 1887, establishing a railroad and warehouse commission, as construed by the Supreme Court of that
State, by which construction we were bound in considering the
case, was in conflict with the Constitution of the United States
in the particulars complained of by the railroad company, but
nevertheless the case was remanded, with an instruction for
further proceedings. And Mr. Justice Blatchford, speaking
for this court, said "In view of the opinion delivered by that
court, it may be impossible for any further proceedings to be
taken other than to dismiss the proceeding for a mandamus, if
the court should adhere to its opinion that, under the statute,
it cannot investigate judicially the reasonableness of the rates
fixed by the commission."
In Tiernan v Rinker, 102 U. S. 123, an act of the legislature of the State of Texas levying a tax upon the occupation

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

,of selling liquors, malt and otherwise, but not of selling domestic wines or beer, was held inoperative so far as it discrinmmiated against imported wines or beer, but as Tiernan was a
seller of other liquors as well as domestic, the tax against him
was upheld.
In the case at bar, petitioner was arrested by the state
authorities for selling imported liquor on the 9th of August,
1890, contrary to the laws of the State. The act of Congress
had gone into effect on the 8th of August, 1890, providing
that imported liquors should be subject to the operation and
effect of the state laws to the same extent and in the same
manner as though the liquors had been produced in the State,
and the law of Kansas forbade the sale. Petitioner was thereby prevented from claiming the right to proceed in defiance
of the law of the State, upon the implication arising from the
want of action on the part of Congress up to that time. The
laws of the State had been passed in the exercise of its police
powers, and applied to the sale of all intoxicating liquors
whether imported or not, there being no exception as to those
imported, and no inference arising, in view of the provisions
of the state constitution and the terms of the law, (within
whose mischief all intoxicating liquors came,) that the State
did not intend imported liquors to be included. We do not
mean that the intention is to be imputed of violating any constitutional rule, but that the state law- should not be regarded
as less comprehensive than its language is, upon the ground
that action under it might in particular instances be adjudged
invalid from an external cause.
Congress did not use terms of permission to the State to act,
but simply removed an impediment to the enforcement of the
state laws in respect to imported packages in their original
condition, created by the absence of a specific utterance on its
part. It imparted no power to the State not then possessed,
but allowed imported property to fall at once upon arrival
within the local jurisdiction.
It appears from the agreed statement of facts that this
liquor arrived in Kansas prior to the passage of the act of
Congress, but no question is presented here as to the right of

NORTH AMERICA INS. CO. v. HIBERNIA INS. CO.

565

Syllabus.

the importer in reference to the withdrawal of the property
from the State, nor can we perceive that the Congressional
enactment is given a retrospective operation by holding it
applicable to a transaction of sale occurring after it took effect.
This is not the case of a law enacted in the unauthorized exercise of a power exclusively confided to Congress, but of a law
which it was competent for the State to pass, but which could
not operate upon articles occupying a certain situation until
the passage of the act of Congress. That act in terms removed the obstacle, and we perceive no adequate ground for
adjudging that a refnactment of the state law was required
before it could have the effect upon imported which it had
always had upon domestic property
Jurisdiction attached, not in virtue of the law of Congress,
but because the effect of the latter was to place the property
where jurisdiction could attach.
The decree -is reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings qn conformity wth thts opmnson.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, MR. JUSTICE GRAY and MR. JUSTICE
BREWER concurred in the judgment of reversal, but not in all

the reasoning of the opinion of the court.

INSURANCE COMPANY OF NORTH AMERICA v.
HIBERNIA INSURANCE COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 14. Argued December 3, 1889. -Decided

May 25, 1591.

A contract of reinsurance to the whole extent of the original insurer's liability is valid, in the absence of usage or stipulation to the contrary.
An open policy of insurance, executed in one State and sent to another, and
taking effect by acceptance of risks under it by the insurer's agent there,
is not affected by local usage of the place where it was executed.
A policy of reinsurance, limited to the excess of the original insurer's risk
above a certain sum, does not prevent him from reinsuring himself elsewhere within that sum.

