OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

HUGKES v. DUNDEE MORTGAGE COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CICUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
DISTRICT OF OREGON.

STATES FOR THE

No. 306. Argued April 14,15, 1891.-Decided April 27, 1891.
By the terms of the appointment of a law agent m tins country of a corporation established at Dundee in Scotland, and engaged in lending
money upon mortgages of real estate here, he was to "do all work, and
carry through all procedure, and see to the execution and registration
and publication of deeds, requisite and necessary for giving and securing
to the company valid and effectual first and preferable mortgages over
real estate for such loans as the directors at Dundee may from time to
time sanction and authorize," and was to "be responsible to the company
for the validity and sufficiency of all mortgages prepared or taken by "
him, was not to take or receive in behalf of the company any commission
or bonus from borrowers beyond lawful interest on money lent; nor to.
act as a local director of the company or be interested in any property
mortgaged, and his "professional fees against borrowers, including
abstracts, searches, investigating titles, preparation and recording of
mortgages," were not to exceed a scale prescribed. Held, that the duties o
for which he was to be compensated by fees from borrowers, included
giving to the company certificates of title; and that his successor,
appointed on the same terms, except in being expressly required to grant
certificates of title, and in being also made general attorney and counsellor of the company, could not recover anything from the company for
making out such certificates.

THIs was an action brought against the Dundee Mortgage
and Trust Investment Company, Limited, a corporation of
Great Britain, having its home office at Dundee in Scotland,
and an office at Portland in Oregon, and engaged in lending
money on the security of mortgages of land in that State and
in Washington Territory, by Ellis G. Hughes, an attorney at
law and a citizen of Oregon, to recover the reasonable value
of services performed by him from January 1, 1875, to January
31, 1880, for the .Oregon and Washington Trust Investment
Company, Limited, (a similar corporation, alleged to have been
since consolidated with, and its liabilities assumed by, the
defendant,) in issuing to that company written certificates of

HUGHES v. DUNDEE ]MORTGAGE CO.
Statement of the Case.

title upon loans made by it upon such mortgages. One
defence set up in the answer was that by a special contract
between that company and the plaintiff he was to be paid only
out of the fees charged to borrowers.
At the trial, the plaintiff offered in evidence the following
documents
1st. A resolution of the board of directors of the Oregon
and Washington Trust Investment Company, Limited, dated
December 17, 1875, in these terms
"Attorneyship. The directors, having in view the recommendation of the local board, resolved and hereby resolve to
appoint Mr. Ellis G. Hughes as the local agent of the company, this appointment to subsist during the pleasure of the
Dundee board."
2d. A letter of the secretary of the same company, dated
December 18, 1875, transmitting to plaintiff that resolution,
and saying"I have now the pleasure to annex extract from the minutes
of a meeting of my directors, held yesterday, from which you
will see that they have appointed you to the very responsible
position of law agent for the company in Portland, Oregon.
I do not at this time require to enlarge upon the duties required from you in this position, as you already have had
some considerable experience of them. It may be well, however, to remind you of what you no doubt have very clearly
in view, viz. that in all cases the company has a clear and
indisputable first mortgage to the subjects pledged m security,
and that the company's business is conducted in accordance
with the laws of the State of Oregon, the Territory of Washington and the United States of America, are matters for
which you are personally responsible to my directors and the
company"
3d. Certain printed rules transmitted to the plaintiff at the
same time, as follows
"Attorney at law It shall be the duty of the company's
attorney or attorneys "(A) To prepare all mortgages, deeds, notes, coupons and
other documents in connection with the company's loans, and

OCTOBER TERAT, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

to be responsible for their due execution, publication, registration and validity
"(B) To be responsible that all mortgages taken are a clear
and indisputable first lien upon the subjects mortgaged, and to
grant certificates to that effect.
"(0) To take charge of and to conduct such proceedings
as may from time to time be instituted by the company, or in
which the company may be interested, subject to such instructions as may be issued thereanent.
"(D) To advise the local board and the directors of any
point of legal or other interest to the company, which may
be developed or come under his or their notice from time to
time, by legislative or judicial action or otherwise.
"(E) And generally to give his or their best attention to all
matters connected with the legal department of the company's
business, and to give such information or advice as may from
time to time be requested or occur to him or them."
The plaintiff then proved the issue of the certificates mentioned m the declaration, and introduced testimony as to the
value of the services rendered and responsibility assumed in
issu-ng the same, and rested his case.
Whereupon, it being then admitted in open court "that
Addison C. Gibbs had been the attorney of the Oregon and
Washington Trust Investment Company, Limited, prior to the
appointment of the plaintiff* as such, that the plaintiff had
been the partner of said Gibbs, and had taken his appointment
on the same terms as Gibbs had held his, save only as it might
be varied by the resolution, the letter of the secretary, and
the printed rules, offered in evidence by the plaintiff," the
defendant offered in evidence a letter from the secretary
of that company to Gibbs, dated August 22, 1874, which, it
was admitted, contained the terms of the appointment of
Gibbs, and the body of which was as follows
"The directors of the Oregon and Washington Trust Investment Company, Limited, have had under consideration a recommendation to appoint you as law agent in and concerning
the preparation of mortgages for loans authorized by them in
America, and I have now the pleasure of informing you that

HUGHES v. DUNDEE

1ORTGAGE CO.

Statement of the Case.

they have appointed you as law agent on the following
footing"
"1. You shall do all work, and carry through all procedure,
and see to the execution and registration and publication of
deeds, requisite and necessary for giving and securing to the
company valid and .effectual first and preferable mortgages
over real estate for such loans as the directors at Dundee may
from time to time sanction and authorize.
"2. In the performance of your duties as law agent aforesaid you will have regard to the amended rules made by the
directors, of which a copy is hereunto annexed.
"3. You shall not directly nor indirectly take or ifeceive
for behoof of the company any commission, bonus or other
benefit from a borrower, and the company shall not covenant
for or accept in respect of any loan anything but the interest
conditioned to be paid in and by the mortgage, and which
interest shall never exceed what is lawful and right.
"14. You shall not, by yourself or any or either of your
partners, be or act as local directors of the company, and
you shall not, directly nor indirectly, be interested in any
property mortgaged or proposed to be mortgaged to the company, or be in copartnery or joint adventure or otherwise
connected with any borrower.
"5. Your professional fees against borrowers, including
abstracts, searches, investigating titles, preparation and recording of mortgages, shall in no case exceed what the laws of
the State warrant, and, although the law might warrant and
allow more, shall never exceed what follows Scale of maximum fees to be charged borrowers by law agent. For loans
under $2001, 31 per cent (exclusive of travelling and hotel
bills), for loans under $4001 and above 82000,. 3 per cent
(inclusive of ditto), for loans above $4000 and under $20,000,
2- per cent (do. do.).
"6. You shall be responsible to the company for the validity
and sufficiency of all mortgages prepared or taken by you.
"7. I commend to your attention a letter which I have today written to Mr. Reid, defining his duties as manager of
the company at Portland, and both you and he will be

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

pleased to understand that that appomtment, according to the
terms of that letter, and your appointment, according to the
terms of this letter, are made upon the footing that the said
appointments and terms thereof are lawful and right, according to the laws of the States or countries in which the real
estates upon which the company's loans may be made are situated, and according to the laws of the United States, and
nothing shall be done by you or Mr. Reid, directly or indirectly,
either in your own names or for your own behoof or in the
name or for behoof of the company, to prejudice or affect or
imperil in any way the validity and sufficiency of any mortgage granted or to be granted to the company, or to create or
give rise to any claim, penalty, tax or other exaction or loss
to the company
"8. Your appointment is, of course, at the pleasure of the
company"
The defendant also offered in evidence the following parts
of a letter written by the plaintiff to John Leng, one of the
directors of the Oregon and Washington Trust Investment
Company, Limited, dated September 30, 1876
"To take up separately the different subjects upon which
you requested an expression of my views." "Attorney's
fees. The fees now charged upon each loan as the fees of the
attorney for the examination of titles, and of which one half
of one per cent on the entire amount of the loan is now paid
to Mr. Reid, is a scale of fees based upon the minimum charges
made by respectable and responsible attorneys here for the
same service and responsibility I have always felt that it
was an injustice to the attorney to require any part of these
fees to be paid to the company's manager. The division was
acceded to, at the time when established, under the belief that,
if the company's expenses were kept down until it was demonstrated that its business in Oregon would be profitable, the
directors would then feel disposed to make such allowance for
the pay of its manager, etc., as to give to each one employed
in the company's service ample compensation for services rendered. The business of the company is now in such a prosperous condition as, I think, entitles me to ask that I be allowed

HUGHES v. DUNDEE MORTGAGE CO.
Statement of the Case.

to receive for my services in their behalf at least the minnum
fees charged for like services by gentlemen in equal standing
in my profession here, which would be the entire fees now
charged borrowers, and out of which there is now paid Mr.
Reid one half of one per cent on the entire amount of the
loan. It would be no object to, but in fact a loss for me to
continue to act as the attorney of the company if the fees
actually received by me are to continue as at present."
The defendant also offered in evidence a resolution of the
Oregon and Washington Trust Investment Company, Limited,
,dated November 23, 1876, in these terms
"Attorney
That Mr. Hughes, the company's attorney, be
remunerated by fees charged borrowers in terms of scale of
March, 1875, and now current. The directors trust that these
rates of remuneration, which, along with the relative appointment, are to continue during their pleasure, will be satisfactory to all concerned."
The plaintiff, for the purpose of showing the meaning and
intent of that resolution, offered in evidence a letter from
John Leng to the plaintiff, dated November 21, 1876, in these
terms
"My colleagues have cordially adopted my recommendation
that you receive your fees according to the scale now subsisting, without any deduction. This will take effect 1st January,
and I hope will be quite satisfactory to you. I learned in the
Eastern States that the mortgage form of one large lending
company provides that the expenses paid to the attorney in
the event of foreclosure shall be such sum as the court may
consider reasonable or a reasonable sum. They say the borrower never objects to this, and the attorney is always allowed
what satisfies him. Would it not be well for you to adopt
this 9"
The plaintiff also proved that that resolution was transmitted
to him with that letter. No other testimony as to the terms
of the contract with the plaintiff was offered by either party
The court directed the jury to return a verdict for the
defendant, and entered judgment theron, and the plaintiff
excepted to the direction, and sued out this writ of error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

.3f J _Y .Do/ph for plaintiff in error.
.21' J Percy lfeating and .Mr Thomas -De Tfit Cuyke7' for
defendant in error.
MM. JUSTICE, GRA.-r, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
It has been necessary to state the facts at length in order
to make the case intelligible. But the questions of law lie
within a narrow compass.
The scope and effect of the contract in question depended
wholly upon written correspondence, and in no degree upon
extrinsic circumstances, and were, therefore, to be determined
by the court. Goddard v froster, 17 Wall. 123, 142, _lamilton v .2,verpool &c. -Ins. Co., 136 U. S. 242, 255.
The duties of Gibbs, the plaintiff's predecessor, as defined in
the letter to him from the secretary of the company of August
24, 1874, containing the terms of his appointment "as law
agent in and concerning the preparation of mortgages for
loans authorized by them in America," were to "do all work,
and carry through all procedure, and see to the execution and
registration and publication of deeds, requisite and necessary
for giving and securing to the company valid and effectual
first and preferable mortgages over real estate for such loans
as the directors at Dundee may from time to time sanction
and authorize," and to "be responsible to the company for the
validity and sufficiency of all mortgages prepared or taken by"
him. For the protection of borrowers, as well as of the company, he was prohibited from taking or receiving in behalf of
the company any commission or bonus from borrowers beyond
lawful interest on the money lent them, from acting on the
one hand as a local director of the company, or being interested on the other in any property mortgaged, or proposed to
be mortgaged, and his "professional fees against borrowers,
including abstracts, searches, investigating titles, preparation
and recording of mortgages," were limited by a scale pre-'
scribed. Although "certificates of title" were not specifically

HUGHES v. DUNDEE

MORTGAGE CO.

Opinion of the Court.

mentioned, it is quite evident that his duties, as thus defined,
included a report or certificate in some form to the company
of the title of each parcel of land upon the mortgage of which
it was to lend money It is equally evident that he was to
be paid nothing by the company, but was to find his whole
compensation in the fees paid him by the borrowers and
mortgagors.
It was admitted that the plaintiff took his appointment on
the same terms as Gibbs had taken his, save only as it might
be varied by the secretary's letter to the plaintiff of December
18, 1875, and by the directors' resolution and the printed rules
enclosed in that letter.
The secretary's letter to the plaintiff informed him that he
had been appointed "law agent for the company in Portland,"
referred to his previous experience of the duties of his position,
and reminded him that he would be personally responsible to
the directors and the company for its having a clear and indisputable first mortgage in cach case, and for its business being
conducted in accordance with the local laws. Among the
plaintiff's duties, as defined by the printed rules sent him, were
"to prepare all mortgages, deeds, notes, coupons and other
documents in connection with the company's loans, and to be
responsible for their due execution, publication, registration
and validity;" and "to be responsible that all mortgages taken
are a clear and indisputable first lien upon the subjects mortgaged, and to grant certificates to that effect." In this respect,
these rules exactly accord. with the prior directions to Gibbs,
except in expressly mentioning (what was only implied in those
directions) the duty to grant certificates of title.
The necessary conclusion is that, so far as the duty of
investigating and certifying titles and preparing mortoages,
and of being responsible to the company for the due execution
and registration of the mortgages and for their validity as a
first lien on the lands mortgaged - in other words, so far as
his duties were substantially the same as those previously performed by Gibbs- he was to be compensated in the same
manner, namely, by fees paid by borrowers; and this is clearly
assumed in the plaintiff's subsequent letter of September 30,

OCTOBER TERMV,

1890.

Syllabus.

1876, to a director of the company, and in the ensuing resolution of the company and letter of that director.
The compensation to be received by the plaintiff for such
duties was not increased or affected by the fact that by the
rules by which he was governed he was also made general
attorney and counsellor of the company and might, for his
services as such, (in regard to which no question arises in this
case,) be entitled to other compensation, as none had been
specified in the contract between the parties.

Judgment aflrmed.

In Nos. 307 and 308, between the same parties, and argued at
the same time, the facts are similar, and the judgments are likewise
Affirmed.

SCOTT v. iEELY
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 314. Argued April 15, 16, 1891.-Decided April 27, 1891.

The Circuit Court of the United States in Mississippi cannot, under the
operation of sections 1843 and 1845 of the Code of Mississippi of 1880,
take jurisdiction of a bill in equity to subject the property of the defendants to the payment of a simple contract debt of one of them, in advance
of any proceedings at law, either to establish the validity and amount of
the debt, or to enforce its collection; in which proceedings the defendant
is entitled, finder the Constitution, to a trial by jury.
The general proposition that new equitable rights created by the States
may be enforced in the Federal courts is correct, but it is subject to the
qualification that such enforcement does not impair any right conferred,
or conflict with any prohibition imposed by the Constitution or laws of
the United States.
Clark v. Smith, 13 Pet. 195, distinguished from this case.
Holland v. Challen, 110 U. S. 15, explained and shown to contain nothing
sanctioning the enforcement in the Federal courts of any rights created
by state law, which impair the separation established by the Constitution
between actions for legal demands and suits for equitable relief.

