UNITED STATES v. McDERAOTT.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. McDERMOTT.
McDERMOTT v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Nos 1152, 1603.

Argued March 12, 13, 1891.-

Decided May 11, 1891.

There being a dispute between the United States and a Commissioner of a
Circuit Court of the United States, acting as Chief Supervisor of Elections, respecting the official fees of the latter; Held,
(1) That he was entitled to charge as commissioner for drawing the
oaths of the supervisors, for administering them and for his jurat
to each oath,
(2) Also for drawing affidavits of services by each supervisor for which
compensation was claimed, as such affidavit had been required by
the government,
(3) That lie should be allowed for drawing complaints in criminal proceedings;
(4) That the charges for docket fees should be disallowed,
(5) That he should be allowed for preparing and printing the instructions to supervisors as a whole, but not a charge per folio for
each copy furnished to a supervisor.
(6) That the same rule should be applied to special instructions to
supervisors;
(7) That the charge for notifying supervisors of their appointments
should be disallowed,
(8) That the department of justice having demanded copies of the
oaths of office of the supervisors, the charge for them should be
allowed,
(9) That the charges for certificates to the deputy marshals' and supervisors' accounts should be allowed for the same reason,
(10) That the statute makes no provision for the allowance of mileage
and attendance upon court in his capacity of commissioner;
(11) That his charge for administering oaths to voters in his capacity of
commissioner should be allowed;
(12) That his per diem charge of $5 per day should be disallowed.

THIS action was brought by McDernott for the recovery of
certain sums claimed to be due him for services as Commlssioner of the Circuit Court for the District of Kentucky, and
also for his fees as Chief Supervisor of Elections during the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

months of October and November, 1888. The petition set
out in full the services for which the several charges were
made, to which the district attorney interposed a demurrer,
raising only questions of law as to the legality of the several
charges. Upon the hearing before the Circuit Court judgment was rendered for $1500.05, 40 Fed. Rep. 217, from
which both parties appealed to this court.
M'r John C. Chaney for the United States. .Ab' Assstant
Attorney General Cotton was with him on the brief.
MAf

Orm B. Hallam for :McDermott.

MR.

JusTiF

Bnowx delivered the opinion of the court.

No question was made as to petitioner's appointment as
Commissioner and Chief Supervisor, nor as to is account having been duly approved by the court, as required by the act of
Congress of February 22, 18Z5, 18 Stat. 333, c. 95, and forwarded to the department at Washington. That the services
had actually been performed was also admitted by the district
attorney Errors are assigned, however, by the Attorney
General, to the allowance of the following items of commissioner's fees
1. For drawing oaths of 369 supervisors, at 15 cents per
folio, for administering each oath, 10 cents, and for his jurat
to each oath, 15 cents.
By Revised Statutes,°§ 2026, it is made the duty of the
Chief Supervisor to "prepare and furnish all necessary books,
forms, blanks and instructions for the use and direction of
the supervisors of election in the several cities and towns
in their respective districts,
and he shall receive,
preserve and file all oaths of office of supervisors of election,
and of all special deputy marshals appointed under the provisions of this title."
From this it appears to have been the intention of' Congress
that the supervisors should take an oath, which should be
reduced to writing and filed with the Chief Supervisor, and

UNITED STATES v. McDEkMOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

in consideration of the number of such supervisors, their short
tenure of office, and presumed inexperience in the drawing of
legal documents, and of the desirableness of securing uniformity in the oaths so administered, it is fairly inferable that it
was the intention of Congress that the Chief Supervisor should
himself prepare these oaths, and file them in his office, but as
no authority is given him by the statute to administer the
oath, and as no other person is specially designated for that
purpose, the oath may properly be taken before any one
authorized by the laws of the United States to administer
oaths. As petitioner is both Chief Supervisor and Commissioner, he may be allowed at the rate of 15 cents per folio
for drawing the oath and 10 cents for administering it, as
charged in his account. By requiring the Chief Supervisor to
be appointed from the United States commissioners, and also
providing (§ 2031) that there shall be allowed and paid to
him, for his services as such officer, compensation "apart
from, and in excess of, all fees allowed by law for the performance of any duty as Circuit Court commissioner." it was manifestly intended by Congress that he should be allowed to
charge for such services as he rendered in his capacity as
United States commissioner, but was not authorized to perform in his capacity as Chief Supervisor.
(a) With regard to the jurat, we think it a proper charge
under that clause of that section 828 which allows 15 cents per
folio "for entering any return,
or making any record,
certificate, return or report." A jurat is in reality a certificate
of the officer who administered the oath that the affiant had
subscribed and sworn to the same before him.
2. Drawing affidavits of supervisors as to the actual performance of the services for which compensation was claimed
by them, administering the oath and drawing the jurat to such
affidavits.
Upon what evidence the department shall act in determining the compensation to which each supervisor is entitled
must depend somewhat upon the discretion of the auditing
officers or head of the department. It would certainly be
competent for the department to pay upon such certified rolls

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

as are used in the case of jurors and witnesses, or it may require the accounts to be verified by the affidavits of the claimants. In respect to these accounts, the Attorney General
wrote to the marshal under date of November 13, 1888, as
follows: "In answer to your letter of the 6th inst., you are
informed that commissioners' affidavits, and badges of special
deputy marshals and of supervisors of election should be
affixed to the pay rolls as vouchers when forwarded to the
Treasury for settlement." By the commissioner's affidavit is
probably understood an affidavit sworn to before a commissioner. If the government requires these affidavits for its own
protection, it is no more than right and just that it should pay
for them. We do not wish to be understood, however, as
holding that in every case the expense of verifying the accounts of persons having claims against the government is
properly chargeable against it, but for the reasons stated in
support of the allowance of item 1, we think it should be
allowed in this case. A similar practice obtains in the payment of jurors and witnesses.
3. The charges for drawing complaints in criminal proceedings are allowed for the reasons stated in United States v
Ewzng, ante, 142. The local practice of Kentucky, as well as
the almost universal practice of commissioners to draw these
complaints themselves, is ample justification for this charge.
It appears to have been the practice of the Department of
Justice for the past twenty years to allow these as proper
charges for drawing complaints, and if there were any doubt
as to the propriety of their allowance, such doubt, in view of
this long continued practice, should be resolved against the
government.
4. The charges for docket fees must be disallowed upon the
authority of Undted States v Ewming, ante, 142, wherein the
question is fully considered.
Exceptions were also taken to the allowance of the following
fees charged for services as Chief Supervisor
5. Preparing and furnishing instructions to supervisors,
$911.25. With regard to this, petitioner states, that as required by § 2026, he "prepared and furnished necessary instruc-

UNITED STATES v. McDERMOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

tions for the use and direction of the supervisors" in the city
of Louisville, with regard to registering voters, and explained
to them their rights, powers and duties under the law with
reference to such registration. "Said instructions were prepared after a careful examination of the statutes of the United
States and of the State of Kentucky, and the decisions of their
courts on the subject of elections, and said instructions were
given to said supervisors orally and on paper. Said printed
instructions contained ten folios each, and they were delivered
to 215 supervisors, and for drafting said paper the statute
allows 15 cents per folio, and the proper charge for said instructions is $322.50." The petitioner also prepared and
delivered to 219 supervisors for the same city instructions
relative to their rights, powers and duties at said election, and
relative to all legal questions that might arise, each one of
which contained 13 folios, for which he claims the sum of
$127.05. He also makes a further claim to $161.70 for instructions to 98 supervisors who served in some of the smaller
towns.
By § 2026 it is made the duty of the Chief Supervisor to
"prepare and furnish all necessary books, forms, blanks and
instructions for the use and direction of the supervisors of
election in the several cities and towns in their respective districts," but § 2031, prescribing the fees of the Chief Supervisor, makes no mention of compensation for services of this
description, although an allowance of 15 cents per folio is made
for a copy "of any paper on file" in his office. It is by virtue
of this clause that this large amount is claimed. These instructions are prepared by the Chief Supervisor, printed and
a copy transmitted to each supervisor. Of the propriety of
furnishing these instructions we have no doubt, and that the
expense of printing the same is a proper charge against the
government would seem to follow from the language of
§ 2026, which makes it his duty to prepare and furnish such
instructions. For preparing these instructions we think he is
entitled to charge at the rate of 15 cents per folio, but we
cannot think it was the intention of Congress to authorize a
similar charge for each copy furnished to supervisors. These

OCTOBER TERMA,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

instructions are in no sense original documents, nor do we
think they can fairly be considered as copies of papers on file,
within the meaning of § 2031. It may be difficult to classify
them under any particular provision of the statute, but the
very magnitude of the charge as compared with the service
rendered, or the expense incurred in rendering it, is in itself a
cogent argument that it was not within the contemplation of
Congress. This was the ruling of the Court of Claims in the
case of -3futrkead, 13 C. C1. 251 and 15 C. 01. 116, and we
think it is correct. The exception to this charge is accordingly sustained.
6. The same rule should be applied to the special instructions issued to 23 supervisors at one time and 22 at another.
So far as they are original, he is entitled to charge at the rate
of 15 cents per folio, so far as they are copies, he is entitled
to the expense of printing.
7. Exception was also taken by the petitioner to the disallowance of a claim for $79.35 for notices sent by him to the
several supervisors of their appointment. It is provided by §
2026 "that the Chief Supervisor shall receive the applications
of all parties for appointment to such positions," and shall
present such applications to the judge, and "furnish information to him in respect to the appointment by the court of such
supervisors," and that he shall also "receive, preserve and file
all (their) oaths of office," but there is no provision for notifying them of their appointment.
We agree with the Circuit Judge that, while it is evidently
proper that a notice of their appointment should come from
the Chief Supervisor, and that provision should be made for
payment for this service, there is no authority in the statute
for allowing this charge, and that it is beyond the power of
the courts to supply this omission.
8. For furnishing copies of the oaths of office of supervisors
to the Department of Justice. The propriety of this charge
can be better understood by a reference to the correspondence
between the Chief Supervisor and the Attorney General. The
former writes under date of November 19, 1888 "In your
instructions to the United States marshal relative to the pay-

UNITED STATES v. McDERMOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of supervisors [you say they] must present their ' commissions, oath, and badge of office, with an affidavit that they
are the persons to whom the commission issued, that they
performed the day's service as charged,' etc. ' The same facts
should also be known to you through other means.' The
supervisor's oath of office, I am, by the statute, required to
file with my papers and preserve, but if you wish, and so
order, I will give each supervisor a certified copy of the oath
In
of office, and will charge the government for the copy"
reply, the Attorney General writes as follows "In answer
to your letter of 18th instant, you are requested to give each
supervisor a certified copy of his oath of office, that the record
of his right to payment may be made complete." Under these
circumstances he is clearly entitled to a fee of 15 cents per
folio as for "a copy of a paper on file" in his office. The
department, having demanded it, is not in a position to claim
that it was unauthorized.
9. The 9th item, for certificates to the deputy marshals'
and supervisors' accounts, falls within the same category In
his letter to the Attorney General of iNovember 19, 1888,
from which the above extract was made, the petitioner also
stated as follows "I shall also attach to each affidavit made
to prove the number of day§' service a certificate of my own,
showing for how many days each supervisor is entitled to pay"
In a letter of November 30 to the district attorney he says
"You said some weeks ago that it was your opinion that I
should attach to each of such supervisors' affidavits my official
certificate, under seal, stating that the claim was just. Since
then the Attorney General has written me to make an official
copy of each supervisor's oath of office filed with me, and to
give official copy to United States marshal. (1) Should I now
give him also an official copy of each deputy marshal's oath
of office filed 2 and (2) should I attach my certificate, under
seal, of the justness of each claim made by said deputy marshals to the affidavit made by them when they presented their
claims 9" In answer to this the district attorney writes him
"I would say that I think you are required to furnish an
official copy of the oath of office of each of the deputy

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

marshals and supervisors, attested by your seal of office, and
also that your certificate upon their affidavits of their services should also be attested by your seal of office." If this
method of verifying and approving the accounts of these
officers was needlessly exact and complicated, it does not
seem to have been the fault of the petitioner, as he was
careful to obtain instructions beforehand, and the government
is in no position to repudiate the act of the department in
demanding these certificates. This amount should therefore
be allowed.
10. The petitioner excepts to the refusal of the court to
allow him mileage, at the rate of 10 cents per mile, for a trip
to Covington and Newport under the orders of the court. By
section 2012, "the court, when so opened by the judge, shall
proceed to appoint and commission, from day to day and from
time to time,
for each election district or voting
precinct
two citizens, residents of the city or town,
etc.," and by section 2013, "the Circuit Court, when opened
by the judge, as required in the two preceding sections, shall
therefrom and thereafter, and up to and including the day
following the day of election, be always open for the transaction of business under this title." By § 2026 it is made the
duty of the Chief Supervisor to "receive the applications of
all parties for appointment to such positions," and upon the
opening of the Circuit Court "he shall present such applications to the judge thereof, and furnish information to him in
respect to the appointment by the court of such supervisors of
election." It is perhaps fair to infer from the language of the
last section that it was contemplated that the supervisors
should attend the court in person, but there seems to have
been no provision made for such compensation, or for mileage
in going and returning. It is true that by section 847 a commissioner is allowed the same compensation allowed to clerks
for like services, and in section 828 the clerk is allowed fot
mileage and attendance upon court. But the difficulty is that
the petitioner did not make the journey in his capacity as
commissioner, but in that of supervisor, and there is no provision for allowance of mileage to the latter. We express no

UNITED STATES v. MoDERMOTT.
Opmion of the Court.

opinion upon the point whether he is entitled to his expenses,
as no claim is made for them, eo nommne.
11. Fees for swearing twenty-three voters as to their qualifications and transmitting their affidavits to the supervisors.
By § 2026 it is made the duty of the Chief Supervisor to
"cause the names of those upon any such list [of electors]
whose right to register and vote is honestly doubted, to be
verified by proper inquiry and examination at the respective
places by them assigned as their residences," and while he
has no authority as Chief Supervisor to administer an oath to
such voters, it certainly would be a proper method of inquiry
and examination. He did have such authority as commissioner, and for administering such oath he is entitled by law
to his fee of 10 cents and for his jurat 15 cents, which is the
amount charged in this case. There was no impropriety in
his using as Chief Supervisor the information he had obtained
as commissioner, and, indeed, the Chief Supervisor would
probably have been given authority to administer oaths in
that capacity had the act not required him to be appointed
from among the Circuit Court commissioners.
12. The last item to which exception is taken is to the disallowance of per diems for 25 days' attendance upon court at
$5 per day As we have already stated, it is perhaps a fair
inference from § 2026 that the personal presence of the Chief
Supervisor at the sessions of the court was contemplated by
Congress, but there is no provision in the law for a per diem
fee. Indeed, the implication from § 2031 is opposed to it.
This section provides that "there shall be allowed and paid to
the Chief Supervisor, for his services as such officer, the followin- compensation apart from, and in excess of, all fees allowed
by law for the performance of any duty as Circuit Court commissioner," among which, however, there isno mention of
any fee for attendance upon court. "And there shall be
allowed and paid to each supervisor of election, and each
special deputy marshal, who is appointed and performs his
duty under the preceding provisions, compensation at the rate
of $5 for each day he is actually on duty, not exceeding ten
days." The intention of Congress evidently was that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

Chief Supervisor, whose duties are entirely distinct from those
of an ordinary supervisor, should be paid by fees, and- that the
ordinary supervisor should receive as his sole compensation $5
per day while actually on duty, referring, evidently, to their
duty at the registration and polls, and not to any supposed
obligation to attend upon the court. As a commissioner, he
is only entitled to a per diem of $5 when hearing or deciding1
a criminal case, and nothing for attendance upon court.
It results that the action of the Circuit Court must be sustained, except in regard to the two items for docket fees and
instructions to supervisors, and that its judgment should be
reduced by the amount disallowed of those two items.
The case will therefore .be
Remanded to the Circuit Court, with direct-tons to vacate the
judgment heretofore 'rendered,and to enter a new Judgment qn conformity to this optnwon.

UNITED STATES v. POIKIER.
A.PPEAL FROM

THE

DISTRICT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 1151.

Argued March 12, 13,1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

There being a dispute between the United States and Poinier respecting his
charges for his services as Chief Supervisor of Elections; Held,
(1) That he was entitled to charge a fee for filing recommendations for
appointments (entitled by him informations), but not for recording and indexing them,
(2) That he was entitled to charge for ndexing appointments, but not
for recording them,
(3) That he was entitled to charge for preparing instructions to supervisors;

(4) That he was entitled to charge a reasonable sum, within the discretion of the court and the treasury accounting officers, for procuring and distributing the same;
(5) That he was not entitled to a per diem charge for attendance upon
the Circuit Court,
(6) That he was entitled to charge for stationery, and for printing forms
and blanks.

