UNITED STATES v. DALLES MILITARY ROAD CO. 599
Syllabus.

indiscriminately upon all of the divisions of the roads. But,
as already stated, there is nothing in the record showing such
to have been the case, or that the Kneeland divisions of the
road id not receive all of them. Such being the case, the
presumption is, that the master, having all of the facts before
him, made a proper award in the premises, and that the court
below committed no error in confirming that award. The
court, in the exercise of its legitimate authority in the matter
of the appointment and control of the receivers, had ample
power to make such order or decree respecting the supplies
furnished those receivers as the law and the facts of the case
warranted, and in the absence of any circumstance showing
that there was any error committed in charging the fund arsing from the sale of the main line of the road with the lien
for the supplies in suit, we must assume that the proceedings
below were correct.
-Decreeaijirmed.
UNITED STATES v. DALLES MILITARY ROAD CO.
UNITED STATES v. OREGON CENTRAL M ILITARY
ROAD CO.
UNITED STATES v. WILLAMETTE VALLEY AND
CASCADE MOUNTAIN WAGON ROAD CO.
UNITED STATES v. KELLY
UNITED STATES v. COOPER.
UNITED STATES v. ROGERS.
UNITED STATES v. GRANT.
UNITED STATES v. FLOYD.
APPEALS FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.

Nos. 1218, 1219, 1248, 1444 to 1448.

Argued March 6, 9, 1891.-Decided May 25, 1891.

In suits in equity brought by the United States under the act of Congress
passed March 2, 1889, (25 Stat. 850,) against corporations and persons
claiming to own lands granted to the State of Oregon by the acts of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Counsel for Parties.
Congress of July 2, 1864, (13 Stat. 355,) July 5, 1866, (14 Stat. 89,) and
February 25, 1867 (14 Stat. 409,) to declare the lands to be forfeited to
the United States, and to set aside, for fraud, patents granted therefor,
the defendants pleaded the issuing of certificates by the governor without fraud committed upon or by him, that they were bona fide purchasers, for a valuable consideration, without notice; and that they had
expended moneys in respect of the lands in good faith. The pleas having been set down for hearing, the Circuit Court sustained them and
dismissed the bills, without permitting the plaintiffs to reply to the pleas.
Held, that they ought to have been allowed to take issue on the pleas.
The act of 1889 intended a full legal investigation of the facts, and did not
intend that the interests involved should be determined on the untested
allegations of the defendants.
The claims of the United States cannot be treated as stale claims, nor can
- the defences of stale claim and laches be set up against them.
Other bills were dismissed on general demurrers, after the bills were dismissed on the hearing on the pleas, and, as it appeared that the disposition of the pleas was regarded as determining all the suits, the decrees
in all of them were reversed.

THE facts which make the case in each of these cases are
stated in the opinion, in connection with that particular case,
so completely that it, is not necessary, nor would it be proper
to repeat them. Different counsel represented different parties at the argument and their arguments necessarily travelled
over somewhat the same ground. In the case in which argument is reported,. the facts will be found in the opinion upon
The Willamette Valley Case, _post, 622.

_tr Asszstant Attorney General Parker for the United
States in all the cases.
.Atr James . Eelly for the Dalles Military Road Company,
the Eastern Oregon Land Company, Kelly, Thornbury and
others.
_fr Rufus -Mallory for the California and Oregon Land
Company
.1r John . Parsons and Xr C. E. S. Mood for the Willamette Valley and Cascade Mountain Wagon Road Company

UNITED STATES v. DALLES MILITARY ROAD CO. 601
Argument for Willamette &c. Road Co.

I. When the government of the United States becomes a
suitor, it submits itself to such principles of justice and rules of
equity as apply between ordinary suitors.
The act of 1889, under which the bill was filed, provides in
so many words that the suit "shall be tried and adjudicated
in like manner and by the same principles and rules of jurisprudence as other suits in equity are tried."
It does not require such an express enactment to deprive the
government of special immunities when it sees fit to accept the
jurisdiction- of its own courts. That it may not be sued without its permission involves grave considerations of public policy
When, however, it sees fit to waive its privilege, and as a suitor
to come before its courts, more particularly before a court of
equity, its rights and liabilities are to be determined by the
same standard which applies in any case. United States v.
Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691, United States v Iinggold, 8 Pet. 150,
United States v 3facdantel, '7Pet. 1, lnited States v Barker,
12 Wheat. 559, United States v. Bostwick, 94 U S. 53, Urnted
States v Smith, 94 U S. 214, Osborn v Bank of the United
States, 9 Wheat. 738, .Mitchel v United States, 9 Pet. 711,
2lanuvfacturung Co. v United States, 17 Wall. 592, The St.
Jago de Cuba, 9 Wheat. 409, The Siren, 7 Wall. 152.
I. The act of July 5, 1866, constituted a grant znpresent?.
The provision that if the wagon road contemplated "is not
completed within five years no further sales shall be made,
and the lands remaining unsold shall revert to the United
States," is in the nature of a condition subsequent. To create
a forfeiture required affirmative action by Congress and suit
instituted.
'The language of the act is, "that there be and hereby is
granted to the State of Oregon." Upon this subject the law
is correctly stated by Judge Deady As soon as the line of
road was designated, the grant attached to the odd numbered
sections, within the prescribed limits, on either side of said
line, and took effect from the date thereof. Schulenberg v
Harriman, 21 Wall. 44, 3Missou-i, Kansas &c. Railway v
Kansas Paczec Railway, 97 U. S.491, Van Wyck v KYnevals,
106 U. S.360. No one except the grantor could enforce the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Willamette &c. Road Co.

forfeiture. Assuming the right to forfeit to exist -if

it were

not exercised, or if an attempt to exercise it was unduly delayed, the title remains unimpaired in the grantee. Schulenberg v flarinan,21 Wall. 44.
III. By the allegations of the bill it appeared both that the
demand was what is known in equity as stale, and that the
government was chargeable with laches. For that reason

the bill was properly dismissed.
The law about the staleness of claims is well settled.

Some-

what running in the same lines is the application to this case
of the doctrine of lacites. Our claim is that any right of forfeiture is barred, both because the claim is stale and because
of laches.
It is something more than mere negative action in whch
the laches consists. It is in the omission by the government
to do what in the interest of protecting subsequent purchasers
good conscience required that it should do, and in its affirmative action in recognizing that no equitable claim to a forfeiture existed.
We understand stale demands to be distingmshed from
laches in these particulars amongst others, viz. Laches is
mere delay Stale demand is without necessary analogy to
the Statute of Limitations. It may be by analogy the statutory limitation, it may be a less period. See Urnited States v
Beebe, 127 U S. 338, Ufnited States v ThirocTmorton, 98 U. S.
61, United States v. San Jacnto Tin Co., 125 U. S. 273.
IV Furthermore, the facts alleged in the bill and the action
of the government as shown by the reports of its houses of
Congress and the action of its executive officers, create an
estoppel which of itself was an answer to the bill.
Estoppel we understand to be radically distinct on principle
from either stale demand or laches. Of course, there may be
estoppel by mere silence or lapse of time, but we understand
the underlying principle to be, when the plaintiff has done some
positive act or acquiesced in some positive act so as to assert
or seem to assert one thing, and the defendant has depended
upon this assertion and altered his position relying upon it, it
is inequitable to allow the plaintiff then to assert the contrary

UNITED STATES v. DALLES AKILITARY ROAD 0O.

603

Argument for Wilamette &c. Road Co.

and place the defendant in a worse position, that is, laches
and stale demand are negative and consist essentially in letting
time slip by, while estoppel is affirmative and generally consists in doing some positive act.
As this defence has been clearly and distinctly allowed as
against sovereign States it ought, on principle to be allowed
against the national sovereignty Although there is no case
in the Supreme Court which we have found that distinctly
asserts the principle, there are many which assume as apparently beyond doubt that the doctrine of estoppel is applicable
to the government.
V The action of the government constituted a waiver of
the right of reentry, and freed the estate from liability to
forfeiture.
It is an incident of an estate liable to be defeated upon a
condition subsequent, that only the grantor is entitled to take
advantage of a failure to perform the condition. He may
waive his right of reEntry The waiver may be either expressed or implied from tacit acquiescence or from some other
recognition of the estate freed from the condition. Touchstone, 153, Cruise, Title 13, c. 2, sec. 63, et seq., Ludlow v
. Y & Hudson River Railroad,12 Barb. 440, Douglas v
ntmon, 21ut. Ins. Co., 127 Illinois, 101. That. the condition
may be waived expressly or in _pats, see Davis v Gray, 16
Wall. 203, Holen v Joy, 17 Wall. 211, Ludlow v 1N Yc&
Hudson Rver R'y, 12 Barb. 440, Chicago, Bock Island &o.
Railway v G-rnnell, 51 Iowa, 476, looper v Cummsngs, 45
Maine, 359. And waiver by silence is deemed acquiescence.
14 'e _N Y Elevated Railroad,70 N. Y 327.
There is another rule which follows from the principle that
only the grantor has the right to reenter if the condition is
broken, and that this right may be waived by him, and that
is that the exercise of this right is necessarily an option. If
the right resolve itself into an option on the part of the
grantor, then all the principles of law applicable to options
must be applied here, that is, he must take advantage of it
promptly, and, as many of the courts have held, upon the very
instant of the breach. See Hall & Rawson v .Delaplane,5

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Willamette &c. Road Co.

Wisconsin, 206, S. C. 68 Am. Dec. 57, and Grigg v Landie,
6 0. E. Green, 506.
We do not care to contend that the rule in all its strictness
should be applied to a sovereign, but we do maintain that,
within a reasonable time after acquiring knowledge of the
breach, the sovereign is bound to take notice of it, or his
silence will be taken as a waiver of this option and acquiescence in the breach. People v Society &o., 2 Paine, 545.
VI. The uncontradicted allegations of the pleas and answers
coupled with the statements of the bill show that the respondents are bona ftde purchasers. For that reason the bill was
properly dismissed as to them.
The act of March 2, 1889, under which the bill was filed
provides that there shall be saved and reserved "the rights of
all bonaftde purchasers of either of said grants or of any portion of the said grants for a valuable consideration, if any such
there be."
The pleas and answers show that the respondents paid originally $182,128.89 for the lands. They are bonajide purchasers
within the purview of the act.
More for the sake of preserving the authorities than from
any real necessity for reference to them, we cite the following
cases which sustain the proposition that a grant in present
words of grant passes the whole legal title, and that, upon
selection and certification of any particular body of land, the
title to this land takes effect by relation as of the date of the
grant. Rutheiford v Greene, 2 Wheat. 196, T5zghit v Roseber)-y, 121 U. S. 488, United States v Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691,
United States v Percheman, 7 Pet. 51, 3 itchel v. Unzted
States, 9 Pet. 711, Ladiga v Rowland, 2 How 581, United
States v Brook, 10 How 442, .esszeur v. Prrwe, 12 Row 59,
Fremont v United States, 17 How 542, United States v
Reading, 18 How 1, Railroad Co. v Srnzta, 9 Wall. 95,
Sckulenberg v. Harriman,21 Wall. 44, Railroad land Co. v
Courtrzgkt, 21 Wall. 310, Railroad Company v. Baldwin, 103
U S. 426, Grinnell v Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 739, lVood
v Railroad Co., 104 U. S. 329, Tan Wyck v KYnevals, 106
U. S. 360. These authorities settle the question as to whether

UNITED STATES v. DALLES MILITARY ROAD 00.

605

Argument for Willamette &c. Road Co.

our grantor had the legal title with right to convey And
pertinent to this question also is the act of 1874. The plea
recites, and for the purposes of this argument its recitals are
truth, that the defendants Weill and Cahn paid at the time of
the purchase nearly $150,000.
We have in our case a union of all the elements above mentioned, and which make up the status of a bona lde purchaser.
VII. The act of Congress of June 18th, 1874, is a conclusive and binding adoption by the United States of the governor's certificates as conclusive evidence of the completion of
such portions of the road as the certificates cover. The act is
a legislative recognition and affirmation of the correctness of
the certificates and establishes the defendants' right to patents
for all lands covered by the certificates.
The language of the act is that, in all cases where the road
in aid of the construction of which said lands were granted
"Cisby the certificate of the governor of the State of Oregon
shown as in said acts provided to have been constructed and
completed, patents for said lands shall issue in due form to the
unless the State of Oregon shall
State of Oregon
by public act have transferred its interest in said lands to
any corporation or corporations," etc.
By this language Congress, with presumed knowledge of all
that had happened up to the date of the passage of the act,
adopted and ratified the certificates of the governor as conclusive upon the right of the defendants to receive the patents.
VlII. The allegations made by the bill and the questions
examined by this court must be limited by the provisions of
the act of 1889.
We are reluctant to make any purely technical defences, but
as attorneys for the defendants we feel obliged to insist that
the Attorney General in bringing the bill can only examine the
certain questions permitted by the act. We are well convinced
that the Attorney General would have had the right to have
filed a full and complete bill without any direction from Congress. That no Attorney General has seen fit to do so is to a
certain extent argument that no good cause of suit on behalf
of the government existed. When, therefore, Congress under-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

takes to direct a suit, we hold that the Attorney General and
this court are limited by the provisions of that directing act,
both as to the grievances to be stated in the bill and the relief
to be sought. United States v Unton Pacific Railway Co.,
98 U. S. 569, 608, United States v A2redondo, 6 Pet. 691, 726.
IX. The decree properly dismissed the bill, no request having been made for leave to take proofs or to go to a hearing
upon the facts. The only disposition of the case which could
be made by the Circuit Court was to dismiss the bill.
Unless plaintiff undertakes to reply to the plea after it is
allowed, if the plea goes to the whole bill, the order allowing
it directs dismissal of the bill. 1 Daniell Ch. Pr. 5th ed. p. 698.
Mn. JUSTICE BLA.TCaFOnD delivered the opinion of the court.
No. 1218 was a bill in equity, filed by the Attorney General
of the United States, on their behalf, against the Dalles Military Road Company, James K. Kelly, C. N. Thornbury, the
Eastern Oregon Land Company and twelve other individual
defendants.
The bill sets forth that on the 25th of February, 1867, the
Congress of the United States passed, and the president duly
approved, an act (14 Stat. 409, c. 77) granting to the State of
Oregon, to aid in the construction of a military wagon road
from Dalles City on the Columbia River, by way of Camp
Watson, Cation City and Mormon or Humboldt Basin, to a
point on Snake River opposite Fort Boise in Idaho Territory,
alternate sections of public lands, designated by odd numbers,
to the extent of three sections in width on each side of said
road, that said act provided that the lands granted should be
exclusively applied to the construction of said road and to no
other purpose, and should be disposed of only as the work
progressed, and that any and all lands theretofore reserved to
the United States, or otherwise appropriated by act of Congress or other competent authority, should be and the same
were thereby reserved from the operation of said act, except
so far as it might be necessary to.locate the route of said road
through the same, in which case the right of way to the width

UNITED STATES v. DALLES MILITARY ROAD CO.

607

Opinion of the Court.

of one hundred feet was granted, that it was further provided
that the grant should not embrace any mineral lands of the
United States, that the lands thereby granted to said State
should be disposed of by the legislature thereof for the purpose aforesaid, and for no other, that the said road should be
and remain a public highway for the use of the government
of the United States, free from tolls or other charges upon
the transportation of any property, troops or mails of the
United States, and that the said road should be constructed
with such width, gradation and bridges as to permit of its
regular use as a wagon road, and in such other special manner
as the State of Oregon might prescribe, that the said act also
authorized the State to locate and use, in the construction of
said road, an additional amount of public lands, not previously
reserved to the United States or otherwise disposed of, and
not exceeding ten miles in distance from it, equal tor the
amount reserved from the operation of the act, to be selected
in alternate odd sections, as provided therein, that the lands
thereby granted to said State should be disposed of only in
the following manner, that is to say, when the governor of
the State should certify to the Secretary of the Interior that
ten continuous miles of said road were completed, then a quantity of the land granted by the act, not exceeding thirty sections, might be sold, and so on from time to time until said
road should be completed, and, if it was not completed within
five years, no further sales should be made, and the lands
remaining unsold should revert to the United States, and that
the United States surveyor general for the district of Oregon
should cause the lands so granted to be surveyed at the earliest
practicable period after the State should have enacted the necessary legislation to carry said adt of Congress into effect.
The bill further set forth, that on the 20th of October,
1868, the legislative assembly of the State of Oregon passed,
and the governor approved, an act (Laws of Oregon, of 1868,
p. 3) entitled "An act donating certain lands to Dalles Military Road Company," which act, after setting forth the passage of the act of Congress of February 25, 1867, granted to
Dalles Military Road Company, incorporated March 30, 1868,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

all lands, right of way, rights, privileges and immunities theretofore granted or pledged to the State*by said act of Congress,
for the purpose of aiding said company in constructing the
road mentioned and described in said act of Congress, upon the
conditions and limitations therein prescribed, that said act of
the State also granted and pledged to said company all moneys,
lands, rights, privileges and immunities which might be thereafter granted to the State to aid in the construction of such
road, for the purposes and upon the conditions mentioned in
said act of Congress, or which might be mentioned in any further grants of money or lands to aid in constructing said road,
and that said act of the State authorized the company to locate, subject to the approval of the governor of the State, the
lands mentioned in said act of Congress within the ten miles
limit prescribed by the latter act, in lieu of lands reserved.
The bill further set forth, that the State of Oregon never
passed any law for the special purpose of carrying into effect
the act of Congress of February 25, 1867, but had passed, on
the 14th of October, 1862, an act (General Laws of Oregon, of
1862, reported by Code Commission, p. 3) entitled "An act
providing for private incorporations and the appropriation of
private property therefor," which provided, among other
things, that any road, other than a railroad, constructed by a
corporation formed under the said act, should be cleared of
standing timber for thirty feet in width, and should have a
track in the centre not less than sixteen feet wide, finished and
kept in good travelling condition, except when the cutting on
said road was six feet or more deep on either side, in which
case such track need not be more than ten feet wide, with
turnouts of sixteen feet in width for every quarter of a
mile of such narrow track, that all streams or other waters
upon the line of such roads should be safely and securely
bridged, except where the county court of the county wherein
the line of such road might cross such streams or other water,
or, if such stream or other water formed the boundary between
two countics, then the county court of either of said counties
might authorize the corporation to place a ferry boat upon
such stream or other water, to be kept and run for such toll as

UNITED STATES v. DAILLES MILITARY ROAD CO.

609

Opinion of the Court.

the county court might prescribe, and in the manner required
of ferries established under the general statutes in relation to
ferries, or except where such county court might authorizesuch corporation to connect their road with a ferry then or
thereafter established over such stream or other water under
the general statute in relation to ferries, and that those provisions of said act of October 14, 1862, had been at all times
thereafter and still remained in force.
The bill further set forth that the Dalles Military Road
Company was a private corporation, purporting to have been
incorporated on the 30th of March, 1868, under the general
laws of the State of Oregon, that the business in which it proposed to engage was the location and construction of a clay
road from Dalles City in the county of Wasco, Oregon, by
way of Camp Watson and Cation City, to a point on Snake
River opposite Fort Boise in Idaho Territory, about two miles
below the mouth of Owyhee River, that James K. Kelly and
two other persons were the incorporators thereof, that on the
11th of January, 1871, the company, by its then directors, five
in number, in pursuance of the unanimous vote of the stockholders, made and filed supplementary articles of incorporation, which provided that the additional business in which the
corporation proposed to engage was to accept and receive any
and all grants of land and other things of value from the
United States to the State of Oregon, and to purchase and
hold land and other property which its directors might deem
necessary and convenient for its interests, and to engage in
any business incident to and connected with receiving any
such grant, and in selling, conveying, purchasing and holding
any land or property that might come into the possession of
the company, and also to establish and keep a toll road on any
part of the road belonging to it, and that the corporation was
still in being, and the officers thereof were James K. Kelly,
president, and C. N. Thornbury, secretary
The bill further set forth, that on the 1st of January, 1869,
and on divers other days between that day and the 23d of
June, 1869, the officers, stockholders and agents of the company, and other persons acting in their and its interests, falsely
VOL. CXL-39

OCTOBER TERI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

and fraudulently represented to George L. Woods, then the
governor of Oregon, that said road had been constructed as by
law required, they then knowing that said representations
were false, and that said road had not been constructed, that
they made such representations for the sole purpose of fraudulently procuring from the said governor a certificate declaring
that the road had been constructed in accordance with the act
of Congress of February 25, 1867, and of the act of the State
of October 20, 1868, that the said governor, in consequence of
such representations, made and issued a certificate, dated June
23, 1869, under his band and the great seal of the State, and
attested by the secretary of state, which set forth as follows
"I, George L. Woods, governor of the State of Oregon, do
hereby certify that this plat or map of the Dalles Military
Road has been duly filed in my office by the Dalles Military
Road Company, and shows, in connection with the public surveys,, as far as said public surveys are completed, the location
of the line of route as actually surveyed, and upon which their
road is constructed in accordance with the requirements of an
act of Congress approved February 25, 1867, entitled 'An act
granting lands to the State of Oregon to aid in the construction of a military wagon.road from Dalles City, on the Columbia River, to Fort Boise, on Snake River,' and with the act of
the legislative assembly of the State of Oregon approved
October 20, 1868, entitled 'An act donating certain lands to
Dalles Military Road Company' I further certify that I have
made a careful examination of said road since its completion,
and that the same is built in all respects as required by the
said above-recited acts, and that said road is accepted."
The bill further alleged, that the company had not constructed at any time a road upon any line of route located or
surveyed anywhere within the limits of the grant of land provided for in said act of Congress, or at all, that the said governor knew this, and had not made any examination of any
road constructed or owned by the company, that said certificate was procured by the company, through such false
representations, in order to enable it fraudulently to obtain
possession of the lands lying within the limits of the grant

UNITED STATES v. DALLES MILITARY ROAD CO.

611

Opinion of the Court.

provided for in said act of Congress, that the acceptance of
said pretended road by said governor was a fraud upon the
United States, that the road never was built, graded, bridged,
cleared or constructed, either in whole or in part, so as to be
a public highway, or so as to permit the transportation of any
property, troops or mails of the United States over the same,
and was not and never had been maintained as a public highway by any of the defendants or any person or persons claiming any interest in the lands embraced within the limits
provided for by said act of Congress, that neither the said
lands nor the proceeds thereof had ever been exclusively or at
all applied to the construction of the road or any part thereof,
or of any bridges thereon, or to the establishment of ferries on
any streams along the line of the road, and that the lands
granted by said act of Congress had not been disposed -of by
the State of Oregon for the purposes expressed in said act.
The bill further alleges that on the 18th of June, 1874, Congress passed an act (18 Stat. 80, c. 305) entitled "An act to
authorize the issuance of patents for lands granted to the State
of Oregon in certain cases," which, after reciting that certain
lands had theretofore by acts of Congress been granted to said
State to aid in the construction of certain military wagon
roads in that State, and that there existed no law providing
for the issuing of formal patents for said lands, provided as
follows "That in all cases when the roads in aid of the construction of which said lands were granted are shown by the
certificate of the governor of the State of Oregon, as in said
acts provided' to have been constructed and completed, patents for said lands shall issue in due form to the State of
Oregon as fast as the same shall, under said grants, be
selected and certified, unless the State of Oregon shall by
public act have transferred its interests in said lands to any
corporation or corporations, in which case the patents shall
issue from the General Land Office to such corporation or
corporations, upon their payment of the necessary expenses
thereof Pi'ovzded, That this shall not be construed to revive
any ]and grant already expired, nor to create any new rights
of any kind except to provide for issuing patents for lands to

OCTOBER TERtM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

which the State is already entitled," and that on the 19th of
June, 1876, the President of the. United States, imposed upon
by said fraudulent certificate, issued to the company a patent
for 126,910.23 acres of land, included in the grants made, or
intended to be made, by said acts of Congress.
The bill then set forth, that, by certain conveyances the
title of the company became vested in the defendant, the
Eastern Oregon Land Company, a private corporation, that
the deeds conveyed the lands in bulk, and purported to grant
to the respective grantees all the lands lying and being in
Oregon, granted or intended to be granted to that State by
the act of Congress of February 25, 1867, and granted or
intended to be granted by the State to the road company
by the act of October 20, 1868, the substantive parts of both
of said acts being recited in all. of the deeds and expressly
made parts of each of them, and that the Eastern Oregon
Land Company was a private corporation created under the
laws of California, on September 26, 1884, its business being,
among other things, to buy and sell lands in Oregon, and it
being an existing corporation.
The bill further averred, that the maps or plats referred to
in the certificate of the governor showed the line of the pretended road to be 357 miles, which would make the grant of
lands covered by the act of Congress of February 25, 1867,
embrace in the aggregate 685,440 acres, of which 558,529.77
acres were not yet patented to the Dalles Military Road Company, and it claimed the right to have a patent therefor.
The bill further alleged that each of the defendants, and
the intermediate grantors and grantees, had full knowledge,
at the time of the execution and delivery of the deeds, that
the road provided for by said act of Congress had not been
constructed and maintained as required thereby and by the
laws of Oregon, so as to be a public highway, or so that it
could be used by the United States or by any of the citizens
or residents thereof as a public highway, or so that the United
States could transport its property, troops or mails over the
same, and also had full knowledge that no grades had been
established or constructed upon any part of said road, no

UNITED STATES v. DALLES MILITARY ROAD CO.

613

Opinion of the Court.

ferries established or maintained, no clearing done, no cuts
made and no turnouts constructed, anywhere on.said line of
road, no bridges built or maintained over any streams on said
line, and had full knowledge that said road was not begun or
completed within five years from the date of the passage of
said act of Congress, that the statements made in said certificate were false, that the governor did not at any time examine
the road, that said certificate had been procured by such false
and fraudulent representations, and that said patent was procured to be issued upon said false and fraudulently procured
certificate.
The prayer of the bill was that all the lands granted to the
State of Oregon by the act of Congress of February 25, 1867,
be decreed to be forfeited to the United States, and restored
to the public domain, that the said certificate, patent and
deeds be declared fraudulent and void, and for further relief.
Copies of the patent and of the deeds are annexed to the bill.
The Dalles Military Road Company, Kelly and Thornbury
excepted to the bill for impertinence. These exceptions were
sustained. 40 Fed. Rep. 114.
By leave of the court, the defendants D. V B. Ifenarie,
Eleanor Martin, P J Martin and the Eastern Oregon Land
Company, on the 17th of October, 1889, filed two pleas to so
much of the bill as prayed that the land granted to the State
of Oregon by the act of Congress of February 25, 1867, and
owned by those defendants, be decreed to be forfeited to the
United States. The first plea set up that Woods, the then
governor, without any false representations having been made
to him, and without any fraud on his part, certified, on June
23, 1869, that the plat or map of the road had been filed
in his office by the company, and showed the location of
the line of route as actually surveyed, and upon which its
road had been constructed in accordance with the requirements of said act of Congress and the act of the State of
October 20, 1868, and that he had made a careful examination of said road since its completion, and that the same was
built in all respects as required by said acts, and the said road
was then accepted, that, on the 31st of May, 1876, the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

pany, for a valuable consideration, to wit, $125,000, paid to it
by Edward Martin, sold and. conveyed all the said lands
belonging to it to the said Martin, his heirs and assigns, and
that, by sundry mesne conveyances from Martin to the Eastern Oregon Land Company, the title to said lands became and
then was vested in that company
The second plea, after setting forth the contents of the gpvernor's certificate of June 23, 1869, averred that on December
18, 1869, the Commissioner of the General Land Office withdrew from sale the odd numbered sections within three miles
from each side of said road in favor of the Dalles Military
Road Company, that Congress passed the act of June 18,
1874, that Edward Martin, placing confidence in the truth of
said governors certificate of June 23, 1869, and in the order of
withdrawal of the Commissioner of the General Land Office
of December 18, 1869 and believing that the act of Congress
of June 18, 1874, would be carried into effect, purchased from
said company, on the 31st of lay, 18,76, in good faith, for the
consideration of $125,000 then paid by him to the company,
all the lands embraced in the grant to it, except such portions
as had been previously sold by it, that, prior to the time he
paid said purchase money and received his deed, he had no
notice of any failure on the part of the company to construct
and complete the road, and had no reason to believe that it
was not constructed in accordance with the act of Congress,
but was informed and believed that it had been constructed
with such width, gradation and bridges as to permit of its
regular use as a wagon road, and that he thus became a bona
fde purchaser, for a valuable consideration, of all the lands
then owned by the company, which it then conveyed to him.
The plea then averred the execution by him on January 31,
187T, of a deed of trust acknowledging that said Martin held
an undivided one-fourth of said lands in trust for said D. V B.
Henarie, and that when Martin purchased the lands Henarie
had paid one-fourth of the $125,000, in good faith, relying
upon the certificate of the governor and on the act of Congress of June 18, 1874, and had no notice that the road had
not been constructed and completed by the company as re-

UNITED STATES v. DALLES -MILITARY ROAD CO. 615
Opinion of the Court.

quired by the act of Congress. The plea then set forth proceedings and deeds by which the title of Martin, (who had
died,) and the title of all other persons, became vested in the
Eastern Oregon Land Company, and averred that the latter
company then held the legal title to all the lands granted to
the Dalles Military Road Company, except such as had theretofore been sold and conveyed by the latter company and its
grantees and the Eastern Oregon Land Company On the
same date the defendants who filed those two pleas filed an
answer in support of them.
On the 25th of October, 1889, the Dalles Military Road Company, and Kelly and Thornbury, who were, respectively, president and secretary of the company, filed an answer to the bill.
iNo replication appeared to have been filed to this answer.
The case was heard upon the pleas above mentioned, and
the court, on the 18th of February, 1890, entered a decree
sustaining the pleas and dismissing the bill. The opinion of
the court, delivered by Judge Sawyer, the Circuit Judge, is
reported in 41 Fed. Rep. 493. In the opinion, it was held that
both of the pleas were good. As to the first plea, the view
taken was, that the authority to determine whether the road
was completed was vested solely in the governor of Oregon,
who was the agent of the United States in the premises, that
his decision was, in the absence of fraud, final and conclusive,
and that the government was estopped from denying its finality As to the second plea, it was held to be good because it
alleged that the defendants were bonafide purchasers from the
Dalles Military Road Company, without notice of any fraud
or defect in the title, and that the defendants were entitled to
rely upon the acts of Congress of 1867 and 1874, the act of
the State of Oregon, the certificate of the governor of that
State, the withdrawal of the lands from sale, and the issue of
the patent. After deciding that the two pleas were valid and
sufficient, the opinion proceeded "The remaining question to
be considered, and the only one presented upon which there isany room for doubt, is whether complainants should be per
mitted to reply to the pleas, or whether the bill should be dismissed. Upon the whole, after careful consideration, I think

OCTOBER TERWi, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the bill should be dismissed.

I think it in the highest degree

probable that such would be the final result, whichever course
is pursued. If so, the expense and annoyance of a long litigation would be fruitless." The opinion then held that the bill
must be dismissed, on the ground that subsequent purchasers
were entitled to rely upon the certificate of the governor, that
the act of Congress of June 18, 1874, affirmed the truth of the
certificate and authorized the issuing of the patent, and that
the claim of the United States was stale.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court erred in not permitting the plaintiffs to reply to the pleas, and in dismissing
the bill absolutely It is provided by rule 33 of the Rules of
Practice in Equity, that the plaintiff may set down a plea to
be argued, or may take issue upon it. This does not mean
that the plaintiff is to make thereby such a conclusive election
that, if he sets down the plea to be argued and it is sustained
on the argument, he cannot afterwards take issue on it. By
rule 34, on the overruling of a plea on hearing, the defendant
has a right to answer the bill. The object of having a plea
set down for hearing is to induce the presentation to the court,
as a question of law, of the matters set up in the plea., so that,
assuming those matters to be true in point of fact, the whole
controversy may, perhaps, be determined as a question of law
But this practice would be discouraged, if the plaintiff were
not to be allowed, in case the plea be sustained in matter of
law, to take issue upon it as matter of fact. Rule 35 provides
that, in case upon a hearing a plea is allowed, the court may, in
its discretion, upon motion of the plaintiff, allow him to amend
his bill. But there is no restriction put upon the right of the
plaintiff to take issue upon a plea after it is allowed on a hearing, and such is the view which has been adopted by this court.
In State of .Rhode Islznd v State of assachusetts,14 Pet.
210, 257, it is laid down by the court, speaking by Chief Justice Taney, that if a plea, upon argument, is ruled to be sufficient in law to bar the recovery of the plaintiff, the court would,
according to its uniform practice, allow him to put in issue, by
a proper replication, the truth of the facts stated in the plea.
In 1 Daniell's Chancery Pleading & Practice, 4th ed. c. 15,

UNITED STATES v. DALLES MIILITARY ROAD CO.

617

Opinion of the Court.

sec. 5, p. 696, it is said, that if a plea is allowed upon argument, the plaintiff may take issue upon it, and proceed to disprove the facts upon which it is endeavored to be supported,
and that he does this by filing a replication in the same manner as if the defendant had answered the bill in the usual way
To the same effect, see Cooper's Eq. Pl. 232, Beames on Pleas
in Equity, 316 to 318, Rule of Lord Chancellor King, 12 Geo.
I., Gilbert's Reports in Equity, 184, 2d ed. folio 1742, Story's
Eq. l.ยง 697, and Mitf. Ch. P1., by Jeremy, 301.
Various matters of fact are alleged in the pleas, which the
plaintiffs have a right to controvert, such as that there were
no fraudulent representations made to the governor, that he
made the certificate without any fraud on his part, that Martin
was a bonaftde purchaser for a valuable consideration, without
notice, that Henarie wds likewise, and that the subsequent
grantees were such bona~fde purchasers.
The decree must be reversed in so far as it dismisses the bill,
and the case be remanded to the Circuit Court, with a direction
to allow the plaintiffs to reply to, and join issue on, the pleas.
Case No. 1219 is a similar bill in equity, filed by the Attorney General of the United States, on their behalf, against
the Oregon Central Military Road Company, the California
and Oregon Land Company and nineteen individual defendants. It alleges, that, on the 2d of July, 1864, Congress
passed an act (13 Stat. 355) entitled "An act granting lands to
the State of Oregon, to aid in the construction of a military
road from Eugene City to the Eastern boundary of said State,"
which granted to the State of Oregon, to aid in the construction of such wagon road, alternate sections of public lands,
designated by odd numbers, for three sections in width on
each side of said road, to be exclusively applied in the construction of the road and to no other purpose, and to be disposed of only as the work should progress. The provisions of
the act of Congress of July 2, 1864, were substantially the
same as those of the act of Congress of February 25, 1867,
considered in No. 1218.
The bill sets forth an act of the State of Oregon, of October
24, 1864, (Laws of Oregon of 1864, p. 36,) entitled "An act

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

donating certain lands to the Oregon Central Military Road
Company" granting to that company all the lands and rights
granted to the State by the act of Congress of July 2, 1864,
for the purpose of aiding the company in constructing the road
mentioned in the act of Congress, and all lands and rights
which might be thereafter granted to the State to aid in the
construction of such road, and also that, on the 26th of December, 1866, Congress passed an act (141 Stat. 374) granting
to the State for such purpose such odd sections or parts of
odd sections not reserved or otherwise legally appropriated,
within six miles of each side of the road, to be selected by the
surveyor general of the State, as should be sufficient to supply
any deficiency in the quantity of the grant, occasioned by any
lands sold or reserved, or to which the rights of pre~mption or
homestead had attached, or which, for any reason, were not
subject to such grant, within the designated limits.
The bill also contains like allegations with the bill in No.
1218, in regard to the passage of the act of the State of Oregon of October 14, 1862, and avers that the Oregon Central
Military Road Company is a private corporation purporting to
have been incorporated on the 15th of April, 1864, under the
general laws of the State of Oregon, to construct a wagon
road from Eugene City in a southeasterly direction to the
southeastern corner of the State, by way of the middle fork
of the Willamette River, that on the 27th of July, 1866, the
officers, stockholders and agents of the company and other
persons, acting in their and in its interest, fraudulently represented to Addison C. Gibbs, then the governor of Oregon, that
the road had been constructed for 50 miles from Eugene City
eastward, they well knowing that such representations were
false and that the road had not been constructed at all, that
such representations were made for the purpose of fraudulently
procuring from said governor a certificate that the road had
been constructed in accordance with the act of Congress of
July 2, 1864, and of the act of the State of Oregon of October
24, 1864, that in that certificate the governor certified that, in
accordance with said two acts, he had passed over and carefully examined the first 50 miles of the road of the company,

UNITED STATES v. DALLES MILITARY ROAD 0.

619

Opimon of the Court.

beginning at Eugene City and extending eastward towards
the southern or eastern boundary of the State, and that the
first continuous 50 miles of said road beginning at Eugene
City were completed in accordance with the requirements of
said act of Congress and the laws of Oregon, that it was not
true that the 50 miles of road referred to had been constructed,
that, in order to procure the certificate and to use the same to
secure the control of the land within the limits of the grant
provided for in the act of Congress, the company, by its
officers, agents and representatives, fraudulently pointed out
to the governor a county road to which the company never
had any legal right, and led the governor to believe that the
road had been constructed by the company under the said
acts, that, on the' 26th of November, 1867, like fraudulent
representations were made to George L. Woods, then governor
of Oregon, in regard to 42-. additional miles of the road, that.
on that date the said governor made a certificate that such 42
miles, more or less, had been carefully inspected and found to
be well and faithfully built in accordance with the requirements of the law, and, therefore, the same was approved and
received, that the 42 , miles had not been constructed and the
governor well knew that, and no inspection of any road constructed or owned by the company had been made by the
authority of the governor, that, on the 12th of January, 1870,
like fraudulent representations were made to the same governor by the officers, stockholders and agents of the company
and other persons acting in their and its interest, that the
road had been constructed as by law required, and .they presented a map falsely showing the same and its route, that the
certificate made by the governor on that day stated that the
plat or map of the road had been duly filed in his office by
the company, and showed that portion of the road commencing
at Eugene City and ending at the eastern boundary of the
State, which had been completed as required by the act of
Congress and the act of the State, that it was not true that
the company had constructed a road upon any line of route
located or surveyed anywhere within the limits of the grant of
land provided for in the act of Congress or at all, that said

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

governor then and there well knew this, and that it was not
true that he made or caused to be made any examination of
any road constructed or owned by the company
The bill contains like allegations with the bill in No. 1218,
in regard to non-compliance with the act of Congress granting
the lands, and in regard to the act of Congress of June 18,
1874, and avers that in 1867, 1871 and 1873 the Secretary of
the Interior and the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
deceived by such fraudulent certificates, executed and delivered
to the State of Oregon, for the benefit of the road, seven certified lists of lands, covering 361,327.43 acres, as intended to
be granted by the acts of Congress, which lists were claimed
to have the force and effect of patents, that thereafter, the
President of the United States, deceived by said fraudulent
certificates, issued to the company two patents for 40,913.24
acres of land included in the grants, that afterwards, by
various deeds, the lands were conveyed in bulk to the California and Oregon Land Company, as lands covered by the
act of Congress of July 2, 1864, and by the act of the State of
Oregon of October 24, 1864, that the California and Oregon
Land Company is a private corporation, incorporated January
9, 1877, under the general laws of the State of California,
that the maps or plats referred to in said certificates showed
the line of the pretended road to be 420 miles, which would
make the grant of lands covered by the act of Congress of
July 2, 1864, embrace in the aggregate about 720,000 acres,
of which 402,240.67 acres had been in effect patented to the
road company, and for the remaining 317,759.33 acres that
company inequitably claimed the right to have a patent issued.
The bill also avers, that the two companies and the nineteen individual defendants, at the time of the accruing of
their interests in the lands, had full knowledge that the road
had not been constructed and maintained as required by the act
of Congress and the laws of Oregon, so as to be in any sense
a public highway, or so that it could be used by the United
States, or by any of its citizens or residents, as a public highway, or so that the United States could transport its property,
troops or mails over the same, and also had full knowledge

UNITED STATES v. DALLES -MILITARY ROAD CO.

621

Opinion of the Court.

that no grades had been established -or constructed upon any
part of the road, or any clearing done, or any bridges built
over any streams on its line, or any cuts made, or any turnouts constructed, or any ferries established or maintained over
any streams, and that the road was not begun or completed
within five years from the date of the passage of the act of
Congress of July 2, 1864, and that the statements made in
the said certificates of the governors were false, and that they
did not at any time examine the road, and that the certificates
had been procured by such false and fraudulent representations, and that said patents were procured to be issued upon
such false certificates.
The prayer of the bill is that the lands granted to the State
by the act of Congress of July 2, 1864, be decreed to be forfeited to the United States and restored to the public domain,
that the certificates, lists, patents and deeds described in the
bill be decreed fraudulent and void, and for general relief.
Exceptions were filed to the bill for impertinence by the California and Oregon Land Company and nine of the individual
defendants; which exceptions were sustained. 40 Fed. Rep. 120.
On the 24th of October, 1889, the California and Oregon
Land Company, by leave of the court, filed two pleas to the
bill. It also filed an answer sustaining the pleas. The case
was heard upon the bill and the pleas, and a decree was
entered on the 18th of February, 1890, sustaining the pleas
and dismissing the bill. The opinion of Judge Sawyer, the
Circuit Judge, (41 Fed. Rep. 501,) states that the pleas were
held sufficient and the bill dismissed for the reasons stated in
the opinion in No. 1218.
The first plea relies on the three certificates of the. governors as having been made in good faith and without any
fraudulent intent or false representation. The second plea
relies on the three certificates and the delivery of the certified
lists embracing the 361,327.43 acres of land, and avers that
fifteen of the individual defendants, on the faith of said certificates and certified lists, purchased from two of the individual defendants, in good faith and for a valuable consideration,
all the lands granted by the act of Congress which the Oregon

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Central Military Road Company had conveyed, without
notice of the fraudulent representations set forth in the bill,
and without any reason to believe that there had been any
fraudulent misrepresentations in examining or certifying the
completion of any part of -the road, or that it had not been
completed in accordance with the requirements of the statutes;
that those individual purchasers conveyed to the California
and Oregon Land Company their interests in the grant, that
at that time neither said land company nor any of its officers,
agents or stockholders had any notice or reason to believe
that there had been any fraud or misrepresentation or failure
of duty in such examination or certifying, that there had
been paid bona fide by the land company and its promoters,
as expense attending the lands and in taxes, large sums of
money, and sales and transfers of the stock of the land company had been made to others than its original stockholders,
who had purchased such stock relying on the truth of said
certificates, and on said listing of the lands,-and on the act of
Congress of June 18, 1874, and without any notice of, or reason to suspect, any of the fraudulent representations charged
in the bill, the capital stock of the company being held by
twenty-five stockholders, of whom only eight were original
stockholders or are defendants in this suit.
For the reasons set forth in regard to case No. 1218, the decree
of the Circuit Court, so far as it dismisses the bill, must be reversed, and the case be remanded to that court with a direction
to allow the plaintiffs to reply to and join issue on the pleas.
In No. 1248, the bill is filed by the Attorney General of the
United States, on their behalf, against the Willamette Valley
and Cascade Mountain Wagon Road Company, the Willamette
Valley and Coast Railroad Company, the Oregon Pacific Railroad Company, the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, two
individual defendants named David Cahn and Alexander Weill
and five other individual defendants.
The bill alleges that, on the 5th of July, 1866, Congress
passed an act (14 Stat. 89) entitled "An act granting lands to
the State of Oregon to aid in the construction of a military
road from Albany, Oregon, to the eastern boundary of said

UNITED STATES v. DALLES MILITARY ROAD CO.

623

Opinion of the Court.

State," granting to the State alternate sections of public lands,
designated by odd numbers, three sections per mile, to be
selected within six miles of said road, and to be exclusively
applied in the construction of the road, and to no other purpose, and to be disposed of only as the work should progress,
and containing substantially similar provisions with the grants
made in the acts of Congress in cases Nos. 1218 and 1219.
The bill sets forth, that the State of Oregon, by an act
passed October 24, 1866, (Laws of Oregon of 1866, p. 58,)
granted to the Willamette Valley and Cascade Mountain
Wagon Road Company all lands and rights granted to the
State by said act of Congress, for the purpose of aiding the
company in constructing the road mentioned in the act, and
also all lands and rights which might thereafter be granted
to the State to aid in constructing the road, and that by an
act of Congress passed July 15, 1870, (16 Stat. 363,) a change
was made in the route- of the road.
The bill then makes the same allegations as in Nos. 1218
and 1219, as to the act of Oregon of October 14, 1862. It
alleges that the road company was incorporated on the 12th
of March, 1864, under the general laws of the State, to construct a wagon road by a specified route, that, on the 8th of
September, 1866, it filed supplemental articles of incorporation changing the line of its road so as to begin at Albany and
run over the Cascade Mountains to the eastern boundary of
the State, that, on the 19th of August, 1871, by supplemental
articles of incorporation, it changed the route of its road so as
to conform to the act of Congress of July 15, 1870, that, on
the 11th of May, 1868, the officers, stockholders and agents
of the company and other persons acting in their and its interest fraudulently represented to the acting governor of Oregon
that the road had been constructed as required by law for a
distance of 180 miles eastward from Albany, they knowing
that such representations were false and that the road had not
been constructed at all, that such representations were made
for the purpose of fraudulently procuring from the acting
governor a certificate that the road for that distance had been
constructed in accordance with the act of Congress of July 5,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

1866, and the act of the State of October 24, 1866, that the
acting governor on that day certified that the plat or map of
the road had been duly filed in his office by the company, and
showed that the portion of the road commencing and ending
as designated on the map had been completed as required by
those acts, that the acting governor did not examine or cause
to be examined any part of the 180 miles, that the certificate
was procured by the company to enable it fraudulently to
obtain control of lands lying within the limits of the grant for
the distance of 180 miles east of Albany, that, on the 8th of
September, 1870, the officers, stockholders and agents of the
company and other persons acting in their. and its interest,
fraudulently represented to the then governor of the State
that the road had been constructed as required by law
from the 153d mile post east from Albany to Camp Harney,
they well knowing that such representations were false, and
that the road had not been constructed at all, that such representations were made for the sole purpose of fraudulently procuring from the governor a certificate declaring that the road,
for that distance had been constructed in accordance with the
said acts, that on the same day the governor made a certificate
that the plat or map of the road had been filed in his office by
the company, and showed, in connection with the public surveys, the location of route of the extension of the road as actually surveyed from the 153d mile post east from Albany,
extending fourteen sections, to Camp Harney, in the line of the
road, as definitely fixed in compliance with the act of Congress
and the act of the State, and that said extension of the road
had, by his direction, been examined and accepted from the
153d mile stake to Camp Harney, and embracing the 29th section, inclusive, that it was not true that the company had constructed the road in question, that the governor well knew this;
that it was not true that he had directed any part of the road
to be examined, that such certificate was procured by the
company in order to enable it fraudulently to obtain control
of the lands in question, that, on the 9th of January, 1871, the
officers, stockholders and agents of the company, and other
persons acting in their and its interest, fraudulently represented

UNITED STATES v. DAILLES MILITARY ROAD CO.

625

Opimon of the Court.

to the then governor that the road had been constructed from
the 29th section to the 36.8th section thereof, they well knowing that such representations were false, and that the road had
not been constructed at all, and having made such representations for the sole purpose of fraudulently procuring from the
governor a certificate declaring that the road for such distance
had been constructed in accordance with said acts, that on
the same day the governor made a certificate that the plat or
map of the road had been filed in his office by the company
and showed, in connection with the public surveys, the location of the route of the road as actually surveyed from Albany,
extending from the 29th section to the 36.8th section in the
line of the road as definitely fixed in compliance with the said
acts, and that the road had been, by his direction, examined
and accepted from the 29th section to the 36.8th section, inclusive, and had been completed in accordance with the act of
Congress, that it was not true that such road had been constructed, that on the 24th of June, 1871, the then officers,
stockholders and agents of the company, and other persons
acting in their and its interest, fraudulently represented to the
same governor that the road had been constructed as required
by law from the 36.8th section thereof to the 44.87th section,
inclusive, terminating at the eastern boundary of the State,
they well knowing that such representations were false and
that the road had not been constructed at all, that such fraudulent representations were made for the sole purpose of fraudulently procuring from the governor a certificate declaring
that said road for that distance had been constructed in accordance with said acts, that on the same date the governor,
in consequence of such false representations, made a certificate
certifying that the plat or map of the road had been filed in
his office by the company, and showed the location of route
as actually surveyed (there being no public surveys in connection with the route to his knowledge) of the road from Albany
to the eastern boundary of the State, the part therein being
from the 36.8th section to the 44.87th section, inclusive, in the
line of the road, terminating at the eastern boundary of the
State, as definitely fixed in compliance with said acts, that
VOL. cxi-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

said road has been, by his direction, examined and accepted
from the 36.8th section to the 44.87th section, inclusive, terminating at the eastern boundary of the State, and that the
same had been completed according to the act of Congress.
The bill further alleges, that the road never was constructed
either in whole or in part, so as to be a public highway or so
as to permit of the transportation of any property, troops or
mails of the United States over it, and had never been maintained as a public highway, and never was examined as stated
in said certificate, that neither the lands nor their proceeds
had ever been applied to the construction of any part of the
road or of any bridges thereof, or the establishment of any
ferries on any streams along the line of any part of the road.
The bill then sets forth the act of Congress of June 18, 1874,
as in Nos. 1218 and 1219, and avers, that on the 19th of June,
1876, the President of the United States, deceived by such
fraudulent certificates, issued to the State of Oregon, for the
use and benefit of the company, a patent for certain described
lands, aggregating 107,893.01 acres, and on the 30th of October, 1882, a patent to the company for 440,856.52 acres. The
bill then sets forth conveyances of certain of the lands to the
defendant Cahn in trust for the defendants Itogg and Weill
and one Clark, the vesting of title to some of the lands in
Weill individually, and to him in trust for Cahn and the defendants Arnstein and Meyer, the deeds covering all the lands
granted, or intended to be granted, to the State by the act of
Congress, or by the State to the company by its act, that
Hogg still claimed an interest in the lands, that the Willamette Valley and Coast Railroad Company, an Oregon corporation, and the Oregon Pacific Railroad Company, another
Oregon corporation, each of them claimed a legal interest in
all the lands, that the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, a
New York corporation, claimed a legal and an equitable interest in the lands, that the Willamette Valley and Cascade IMountam Road Company and the Willamette Valley and Cascade
Mountain Military Wagon Road Company were one and the
same, that the maps or plats referred to in the certificates
showed the line of the road to be 456 - miles, which would

UNITED STATES v. DALLES MILITARY ROAD CO.

627

Opinion of the Court.

make the grant of land covered by the act of Congress 876,480
acres, of which 327,730.47 acres were not yet patented to the
road company, and that the company claimed the right to have
a patent issued therefor, that the four corporation defendants
and five of the individual defendants, at the time their interests accrued, had full knowledge that the road had not been
constructed and maintained as required by the acts of Congress and the laws of the State, so as to be in any sense whatsoever a public highway, or so that it could be used by the
United States, or by any citizens or residents thereof, as a public highway, or so that the United States could transport its
property, troops or mails over the same, and that no grades
had been constructed upon any part of the road, nor any clearing done, nor any bridges built over any streams, nor any cuts
made, nor turnouts constructed, nor any ferries maintained
over any streams, and that the road was not begun or completed within five years from the date of the passage of the act
of Congress, and that each of said defendants knew that the
statements made in the certificates of the governors and acting
governor were false, and that they did not at any time examine the road, and that the certificates were procured by said
fraudulent representations, and that the said patents were procured to be issued upon said fraudulently procured certificates.
The prayer of the bill is that all the lands granted to the
State by the act of Congress of July 5, 1866, be decreed to be
forfeited to the United States and restored to the public
domain, that the said certificates, patent and deeds be declared fraudulent and void, and for general relief.
The defendants, Weill and Cahn, by leave of the court, filed
pleas to the bill, and an answer in support of the pleas. The
defendants Hogg, the Willamette Valley and Coast Railroad
Company, the Willamette Valley and Cascade Mountain
Wagon Road Company and the Oregon Pacific Railroad
Company filed exceptions to the bill for impertinence, which
exceptions were sustained. The Farmers' Loan and Trust Company filed pleas to the bill, with an accompanying answer. The
defendants Hogg, the Willamette Valley and Coast Railroad
Company and the Oregon Pacific Railroad Company fied
pleas to the bill, with an answer supporting the pleas.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The cause was heard upon the pleas of the defendants Weill
and Cahn, by Judge Deady, and a decree entered sustaining
them and dismissing the bill as to those defendants. The
opinion of the court is reported in 42 Fed. Rep. 351. Subsequently, the cause was heard upon the pleas and answers of
the defendants, Hogg, the Willamette Valley and Coast Railroad Company, the Oregon Pacific 'Railroad Company and
the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, and a decree was
entered on the 12th of May, 1890, sustaining the pleas and
dismissing the bill as to those defendants.
Weill and Cahn filed two pleas. The first plea sets up that
the Secretary of the Interior, after duly investigating a complaint that the road had not been constructed as required by
the act of Congress, directed the Commissioner of the General
Land Office to certify the lands for patent under the act of
Congress of July 18, 1874, that the patent for the 440,856.52
acres was thereafter duly issued to the road company, that
the defendants Weill and Cahn, relying upon those facts, so
altered their position in reference to the lands as would render
it inequitable for the United States to assert any right to forfeit or reclaim the lands, that those defendants had laid out,
in securing the patents, in selecting other lands which had not
yet been patented and in taxes, expenses and protecting their
title, large sums of money, and had sold portions of the land
with warranty, and had expended a large sum in rebuilding
and improving the road through its entire length, and in constructing bridges.
The second plea of Weill and Cahn avers that, in 1871, the
attention of Weill was called to the existence of the road company and its ownership of the land grant, that it was represented that the road had been fully constructed and the grant
earned, that the company held title to the lands, and that they
were for sale, that Weill joined with Hlogg and one Clarke to
purchase the lands, whibh was done, and they were deeded by
the road company to Clarke in August, 1871, that, in September, 1871, Clarke conveyed the lands to Cahn, to hold them in
trust for Weill, Hogg and Clarke, according to their respect-,
ive interests, that the greater part of the lands was then un-

UNITED STATES v. DALLES MILITARY ROAD 00.

629

Opinion of the Court.

surveyed, a few sections had been selected, and none had been
patented by the United States to the road company or to
the State of Oregon, and for additional protection Weill and
Clarke purchased the stock of the road company, that, at the
time of the first conveyance by the road company, Weill had
paid, in the purchase of the lands, over $140,000, and Clarke
over $20,000, that at that time the certificates of the governors of Oregon had been made and duly filed in the office
of the secretary of state of the State and in the Department
at Washington, that said defendants relied upon those certificates, and that in 1879 Weill purchased the interests of Clarke
and Hogg in the lands for $21,400, all of them believing that
the road had been completed as required by the act of Congress and as certified. The plea denies all fraud or notice of
any fraud or of any claim on the part of the United States at
the time the defendants acquired title to any part of the lands,
and avers that they are purchasers in good faith, without
notice, for a valuable consideration.
The answer which accompanies these pleas contains averments in support of them, and alleges that but for the existence of the certificates Weill would not have purchased the
lands. To the pleas and answer are annexed the reports of
the special agent of the United States and of committees of
Congress, and a letter of the Secretary of the Interior.
The pleas and answer of the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company set forth the principal matters appearing in the pleas
and answer of Weill and Cahn, and the answer alleges that
the trust company is the trustee for certain holders of bonds
secured by a mortgage made to it, as trustee.
The pleas and supporting answer of Hogg, the Willamette
Valley and Coast Railroad Company and the Oregon Pacific
Railroad Company set forth substantially the same matters
contained in the pleas and answer of Weill and Cahn and in
those of the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company
The first plea of Weill and Cahn was treated by the Circuit
Court as a plea of estoppel. On the facts stated in that plea,
the court held that the claim made in the bill was a stale
claim, and that the delay or lapse of time constituted a bar

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

to the relief sought, and ought to have the same effect as in a
suit between private parties. The court also held that the
second plea of Weill and Cahn was good, because it set up all
the elements of a bonaftde purchase for a valuable consideration, that the certificates of the governors were conclusive as
to the fact of the completion of the road, and that the lands
could not be forfeited to the United States, even if the certificates of the governors should be proved to have been false
and fraudulent. The opinion of the court further says, that
the facts stated in the pleas are manifestly true, that it is
extremely improbable, under the circumstances, that the defendants Weill and Cahn had notice of the falsity of the cer
tificates, and that, admitting that their falsity might be shown,
in conjunction with notice to the defendants of that fact, it
would be extremely difficult, in.view of the lapse of time and
of the absence of any resident population along the line of the
road at the time, to make any satisfactory proof on the subject. The opinion then refers, as an authority applicable to the
cases generally, to the opinion of Judge Sawyer in No. 1218,
Unmited States v Dalles M ilitary Road Co., 41 Fed. Rep. 493.
For the reasons heremnbefore set forth in regard to case No.
1218, we are of opinion that the United States were entitled,
on the sustaining of the pleas in the present case, to take issue
as to the matters of fact alleged in them, and that the decrees
in No. 1248 must be reversed, in so far as they dismiss the bill
as to the defendants who put in pleas, and the case be remanded with a direction to allow the plaintiffs to reply to and
join issue on the pleas.
All of the eight suits here involved were commenced by the
Attorney General in the name of the United States, under the
authority and direction of an act of Congress passed M arch 2,
1889, 25 Stat. 850, which directed him to bring suits in the
name of the United States in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Oregon, against all persons, firms
and corporations claiming to own or to have an interest in the
lands granted to the State of Oregon by the acts of Congress
of July 2, 1864, July 5, 1866, and February 25, 1867, giving their titles, "to determine the questions of the seasonable

'UNITED STATES v. DALLES MILITARIY IROAD CO. 631
Opinion of the Court.

and proper completion of said roads in accordance with the
terms of the granting acts, either in whole or in part, the legal
effect of the several certificates of the governors of the State
of Oregon of the completion of said roads, and the right of
resumption of such granted lands by the United States, and
to obtain judgments, which the court is hereby authorized to
render, declaring forfeited to the United States all of such
lands as are coterminous with the part or parts of either of
said wagon roads which were not constructed in accordance
with requirements of the granting acts, and setting aside
patents which have issued for any such lands, saving and preserving the rights of all bonaftde purchasers of either of said
grants, or of any portion of said grants, for a valuable consideration, if any such there be. Said suit or suits shall be tried
and adjudicated in like manner and by the same principles
and rules of jurisprudence as other suits in equity are therein
tried, with right to writ of error or appeal by either or any
party as in other cases."
By this act, suits are directed to be brought to determine (1)
"the question of the seasonable and proper completion of said
roads in accordance with the terms of the granting acts, either
in whole or in part," (2) "the legal effect of the several certificates of the governors of the State of Oregon of the completion of said roads," (3) "the right of resumption of such
granted lands by the United States," (4) to obtain judgments, which the court is thereby authorized to render, "declaring forfeited to the United States all of such lands as are
coterminous with the part or parts of either of said wagon
roads which were not constructed in accordance with requirements of the granting acts ," and (5) to set aside patents
which have been issued for any such lands, "sav n g and preserving the rights of all bonaflde purchasers of either of said
grants, or of any portion of said grants, for a valuable consideration, if any such there be."
It is manifest that, although the act says that the suits are'
to be tried and adjudicated in like manner and by the same
principles and rules of jurisprudence as other suits in equity,
Congress intended a full legal investigation of the facts, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

did not intend that the important interests involved should be
determined upon the untested allegations of the defendants.
They set up, to avoid an actual investigation, staleness of
claim, estoppel, laches, the certificates of the governors, and
allegations of bona fide purchase. It must be held that, in
passing the statute of 1889, Congress gave full effect to its
three granting acts and to its act of June 18, 1874, to the
reports made by its committees and to the acts and proceedings of the Secretary of the Interior, the Commissioner of
the General Land Office and other executive officers. An assertion that the claim of the United States is a stale claim is an
assertion that Congress deliberately directed suit to be brought
upon a stale claim. If laches be a good defence, it must be
declared that Congress directed suits which would be defeated
by showing prior delays by Congress. Besides, the defences
of stale claim and laches cannot be set up against the government. Unthted States v .i07-7vatrck, 9 Wheat. 20; United
States v Van Zandt, 11 Wheat. 184, Urnted States v Nickoll,
12 Wheat. 505, Dox v Postmaster General,1 Pet. 318, Lindsey v .Miller 6 Pet. 666, Gibson v Ckouteau, 13 Wall. 92,
Gaussen v Un-ded States, 97 U. S. 584, Steele v UVn-ted States,
113 U. S. 128, Urntted States v. Insley, 130 U. S. 263.
The government has had no opportunity to prove the charges
of fraud made in the bill, and there is no proof but the allegations of the pleas as to the bonajides of the defendants, and as
to the amounts expended by them in good faith in connection
with the roads or the lands. It cannot be properly held that,
under the act of 1889, final adjudication can be made, on such
pleadings alone, as to the extensive interests involved in this
litigation. The claims of, the United States cannot be treated
as stale claims, in view of the act of 1889, especially as to those
portions of the lands which remain unpatented, and as to those
certificates of the governors which were false and fraudulent
to the knowledge of those who made them and to the knowledge of the several defendant , or in view of the alleged defects of the certificates in cases Nos. 1219 and 1248.
Cases Nos. 1444, 1445, 1446, 1447 and 1448 arose out of
transactions under the acts involved in No. 1218, namely, the

UNITED STATES v. DALLES MILITARY ROAD CO.

633

Opinion of the Court.

act of February 25, 1867, (14 Stat. 409,) and the act of the
State of Oregon of October 20, 1868, granting the lands
covered by said act of Congress to the Dalles Military Road
'Company
In No. 1444, the defendant Kelly is a grantee of
the road company, and in the four other cases the defendants
Cooper, Rogers's administratrix, Grant and Floyd, are grantees
respectively of the Eastern Oregon Land Company, which
derives its title from the road company In each of the bills
of complaint in Nog. 1444, 1445, 1446, 1447 and 1448 the allegations are in substance the same as those of the bill in No.
1218, with the further allegation, that the defendants respectively entered into possession of some of the lands under deeds,
and claim severally to own and hold them adversely to the
United States, and had the full knowledge charged against the
defendants in the bill in No. 1218.
In each of the four cases, Nos. 1444, 1445, 1447 and 1448,
(those against Kelly, Cooper, Grant and Floyd,) a stipulation
was entered into between the parties, on November 5, 1889,
that the defendant need not further plead until the determination of the pleas in the suit of the United States against the
Eastern Oregon Land Company (that is, No. 1218,) or until
the further order of the court. The decree in No. 1218, dismissing the bill, was made February 18, 1890. On May 5,
1890, a general deinurrer to the bill for want of equity was
interposed in each of the four cases, Nos. 1444, 1445, 1447 and
1448, and in No. 1446, on the 30th of April, 1890, a demurrer
to the bill was filed for want of equity and on the ground that
the heirs of Alexander Rogers, deceased, were necessary
parties to the bill. On M ay 2, 1890, a decree sustaining the
demurrer and dismissing the bill was entered in No. 1446, and
on May '7, 1890, a decree sustaining the demurrer and dismissing the bill was entered in each of the other four cases.
The prayers of these five bills are that the certificates,
patents and deeds be declared fraudulent and void and the
lands be restored to the public domain, and for general relief.
It is apparent that the decision on the pleas in No. 1218
was regarded as determining these five suits, and that, as
the decree in No. 1218 is reversed, the decrees in these five

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

suits must also be reversed, and such further proceedings be
had in them as shall not be inconsistent with the opinon of
this court in No. 1218, so that these five suits may proceed parz
passu with No. 1218, and the United States be entitled to have
the full benefit of the act of 1889 in all the suits.
As to the ground of demurrer stated in No. 1446, that the
heirs of Alexander Rogers, deceased, are shown by the bill to
be proper and necessary parties, the deed from the Eastern
Oregon Land Company is to the defendant Matilda 0. Rogers,
"admirnstratrix, in trust for tue estate of Alex. Rogers, deceased," and the conveyance is "to her, her heirs and assigns
forever." The bill does not state that Alexander Rogers left
any heirs. It only misstates the contents of the deed, a copy
of which is annexed to the bill, by stating that the conveyance
was to "Matilda C. Rogers, administratrix of the estate of
Alexander Rogers, in trust for said estate and the heirs of said
deceased," which is an incorrect statement of the deed.
To prevent any misapprehension, we state that
We do not intend to determi&ne any questton as to the controversy
between the United States and the claimants of the lands, but
reverse the cases that their merits may be -nvestigated. Decrees of this courtwill be entered in accordancewt theforegoing directions.
.Reversed.

MARTIN v. BARBOUR.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 369. Submitted May 1, 1891. -Decided

May 25, 1891.

In a proceeding instituted under the statute of Arkansas to confirm a tax
title to a lot of land, the person who owned the lot when it was sold for
taxes may set up in defence defects and irregularities in the proceedings
for the sale.
A lot was sold to the State in 1885, for the taxes of 1884, and, after the two
years allowed for redemption had expired, it was certified to the commissioner of state lands, and purchased from him by a person who brought
the proceeding to confirm the title. The widowed mother of certain

