OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

stipulate for the holder's receiving the full benefit, either in
cash, or by a new paid-up policy, of the three-fourths of the
net value, as determined by §§ 5983 and 5984. The other two
cases specified do not contemplate or authorize any provision
in the contract itself inconsistent with the statute, but only
permit the holder to surrender the policy, either in lieu of a
new policy, or for a consideration adequate m his judgment.
In defining each of these two cases, the statute, while allowing
the holder to make a new bargain with the company, at the
tune of surrendering the policy, and upon such terms as, on
the facts then appearing, are satisfactory to him, yet significantly, and, it must be presumed, designedly, contains nothing
having the least tendency to show an intention on the part of
the legislature that the company might require the assured to
agree in advance that he would at any future time surrender
the policy or lose the benefit thereof, upon any terms but
those prescribed in the statute.
It follows that the insertion, in the policy, of a provision for
a different rule of commutation from that prescribed by the
statute, in case of default of payment of premium after three
premiums have been paid, as well as the insertion, in the
application, of a clause by which the beneficiary.purports to
"waive and relinquish all right or claim to any other surrender value than that so provided, whether required by a
statute of any State, or not," is an ineffectual attempt to
evade and nullify the clear words of the statute.
Judgment aflrmed.

BLOCK v. DAIRLING.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UIITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KENTUOKY.
flo. 299. Argued April 22, 23, 891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

When in an action for the recovery of a money demand, a counter-claim of
the defendant exceeding $5000 in amount is entirely disallowed, and
judgment rendered for the plaintiff on his claim, this court has juris-

BLOCK v. DARLING.

235

Statement of the Case.
diction of a writ of error sued out by the defendant, without regard to
the amount of the plaintiff's 3udgment.
Hilton v. Dickinson, 108 U. S. 165, affirmed and applied.
A general exception " to all and each part of the foregoing charge and instruction" suggests nothing for the consideration of this court.
Mloney deposited by the plaintiff with the defendant, in order to cheat and
defraud plaintiff's creditors, may be recovered back by him.

the defendant in error, brought this action against
the plaintiffs in error, partners doing business under the name
of Elias Block & Sons, to recover the sum of $7144.37, for and
on account of the sum of $5636 alleged to have been deposited
with them by plaintiff, and accepted and received by defendants, to be paid to him on his order, and for certain articles
of personal property sold and delivered by him to them at
their special instance and request, particulars of which are set
out in an account filed with the petition, and for each and
all of which, it is averred, the defendants promised to pay,
but no part of which had been paid except the sum of $3103,
leaving a balance due of $4041.37, for which amount, with
interest, judgment was asked.
The defendants filed an answer and counter-claim, in the
first paragraph of which they deny being indebted to the
plaintiff in any sum whatever on account of the matters or
any of them set forth in the petition. They allege that, on
the 8th of March, 1882, they purchased from him a distillery
and premises known as the A. W Darling distillery, including
certain merchandise and chattels, then on the premises, and
being used in the operation of the distillery and the distillery
business, also, the good will, brands, trade marks, trade names
and other tokens connected with and belonging to such business and distillery, and certain whiskeys made at the distillery,
the price of the whole being $20,450.82; that the merchandise and chattels so bought by them constituted part of the
personal property mentioned in the petition, and were purchased by him at agreed prices, aggregating $1079.60, and that
said sum of $20,450.82 was then and there paid to the plaintiff, except $5636. In respect to the latter sum the answer
alleged that "the plaintiff was then and there, and still is,
DARLiNG,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

largely indebted to others and wholly insolvent, and intending
and designing to cheat and defraud his other creditors, and
thereto to assert to them that he had been fully paid all of
said purchase money, he then and there requested these defendants to retain said balance as a deposit, and thereupon
the same was paid by these defendants to plaintiff and by him
immediately returned to these defendants, and that this is the
same transaction mentioned in the petition as a deposit."
The second paragraph asserted a counter-claim against the
plaintiff for the sum of $9000, for which the defendants asked
judgment. The counter-claim arose out of alleged misrepresentations and breach of warranty by the plaintiff in respect
to certain whiskeys then on hand and made at his distillery,
which the defendants had purchased with the distillery, such
whiskeys, it was alleged, being falsely and fraudulently represented by the plaintiff to be sound and merchantable, and not
made of roteen or musty material, and the purchase of them,
as well as the distillery, constituting a part of the transaction
out of which the demands of the plaintiff arose.
After the issues were fully made up - the burden, according
to the pleadings, being upon the plaintiff to establish his demand, and upon the defendants to prove their counter-claim there was a trial before a jury, resulting, December 22, 1886,
in a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for " $ 3 938.40, with legal
interest from March 11, 1882." On the same day, a judgment
in conformity with the verdict having been entered, the defendants moved for a new trial upon various grounds. Subsequently, December 24, 1886, the plaintiff moved the court to
allow him to remit $100 of the judgment. This motion was
disposed of on the day the defendants tendered their bill of
exceptions, January 17, 1887, the court 'ordering that motion
to be granted, the defendants being present by counsel and
not objecting.
The bill of exceptions shows that certain letters received by
the plaintiff, through the mail, from the defendants, were admitted in evidence against their objection, and that an exception was taken to the action of the court. It also shows that
the defendants offered testimony conducing to show that the

BLOCK v. DARLLTG.
Opinion of the Court.

debt of the defendants to plaintiff for unpaid purchase money
on the transaction m controversy was changed in form to a
deposit with defendants, for plaintiff's benefit, under the
assumed name of Charles Adams, and that such change was
at the plaintiff's instance, and for the purpose of concealing
that indebtedness from his creditors, and with intent to defraud them. This testimony was excluded, and to this action
of the court an exception was taken.
The bill of exceptions shows no other exceptions. It contains all the evidence introduced "bearing upon the exceptions to the charge." The charge was very full, concluding
"It is the duty of this court to tell you that the defendants
have not made out any case for damages. You will, therefore, retire to consider the verdict and return what you find to
be the balance due to the plaintiff, allowing him interest or
not as you may see proper."
The defendants, at the close of the charge, "excepted to all
and each part of the foregoing charge and instructions, and
the same was all the charge or instruction given by the
court."

.Mr T F Hallcn for plaintiffs in error.
.2POn'im B. Hallam for defendant in error.
Mur. JusTicE EiA.rLAN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
1. The judgment rendered December 22, 1886, was for
$3938.40, with interest thereon at the rate of six per cent per
annum from the 11th of M arch, 1882. The principal and
interest amounted at that time to $5062.07. But on a subsequent day the court, the defendants being present by counsel
and not objecting, allowed the plaintiff to remit one hundred
dollars of the judgment. This reduced the amount in dispute
on the plaintiff's demand to less than $5000. It is, consequently, contended that there is nothing before us on this writ
of error m respect to the plaintiff's cause of action against the
defendants. This view cannot be sustained. The defendants

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

not only disputed the whole of the plaintiff's demand, but
claimed judgment over against him for the amount of their
counter-claim. So that the amount in dispute here is the aggregate of the demands of the respective sides. As said in
Hilton v Dwknson, 108 U. S. 165, 175, this court has jurisdiction "of a writ of error or appeal by a defendant when the
recovery against him is as much in amount or value as is
required to bring a ease here, and when, having pleaded a setoff or counter-claim for enough to give us jurisdiction, he is
defeated upon his plea altogether, or recovers only an amount
or value which, being deducted from his claim as pleaded,
leaves enough to give us jurisdiction, which has not been
allowed." See also BiradstreetCompany v Higgzns, 112 U. S.
227. The disallowance altogether of the defendants' counterclan entitled them to a writ of error that would bring up
the whole case, the original cause of action as well as the defence and counter-claim. This results from the fact that the
defendants claamed that the plaintiff ought not to have judgment in any sum whatever, and that they were entitled to
judgment for the amount of their counter-claim.
2. Although we have jurisdiction, so far as the value of the
matter in dispute is concerned, the question is not properly
before us as to whether the court erred in its charge to the
jury upon the counter-claim. The general exception "to all
and each part of the foregoing charge and instructions" suggests nothing for our consideration. It was no more than a
general exception to the whole charge. The court below was
entitled to a distinct specification of the matter, whether of
fact or of law, to which objection was made. The charge
covered all the facts arising out of the counter-claim, and
clearly stated the law which, in the opinion of the court, governed the case. If its attention had been specifically called
at the time to any particular part of the charge- that was
deemed erroneous, the necessary correction could have been
made. An exception "to all and each part" of the charge
gave no information whatever as to what was in the mind of
the excepting party, and, therefore, gave no opportunity to
the trial court to correct any error committed by it. Harvey

BLOCK v. DARLING.
Opmon of the Court.

v Tyler', 2 Wall. 328, 339, Beckwtth v Bean, 98 U. S. 266,
284, .XAoulor v .Amerean Ins. Co., 111 U S. 335, 337.
3. The exception by the defendants to the admission in evidence of certain letters received by the plaintiffs through the
mail from the defendants, is not well taken. Those letters
had more or less bearing upon the transaction out of which
the respective claims of the parties arose.
4. Nor did the court below err in excluding evidence offered
by the defendants conducing to show that the money claimed
by the plaintiff to have been deposited with them to be paid
to him on his order was so deposited with the intent to cheat
and defraud his creditors. The evidence, if admitted, would
not have relieved the defendants from responsibility to account
for it. The plaintiff's suit to compel the return of the money
may be regarded as one in disaffirmance of the arrangement
under which the defendants claimed to have received it, and,
if successful, would tend to defeat the alleged purpose of
defrauding his creditors by having it kept upon secret deposit
with the defendants. It is not a suit to recover money received
and paid out under an illegal or immoral contract which has
been fully executed. The suit is necessarily a disavowal upon
the part of the plaintiff of any purpose to hide this money
from his creditors. To allow the defendants to retain it upon
the ground that he had originally the purpose to conceal it
from his creditors would be inconsistent with the spirit and
policy of the law Sprzng Co. v .Enowlton, 103 U. S. 49, 58,
and authorities there cited. Besides, the deposit was good as
between the parties. The defendants do not represent the
plaintiff's creditors, and the latter are not suing.
This disposes of all the exceptions arising upon the record.
Judgment aff rmed.

