IN lRE WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

In re WILSON, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 11.

Original.

Submitted April 27, 1891.-Decided May 25,1891.

Prior to 1885 the District Courts of a Territory had jurisdiction over the
crime of murder, committed by any person other than an Indian, upon
an Indian reservation within its territorial limits; and such jurisdiction was not taken away by the act of Mlarch 3, 1885, c. 341, ยง 9, 23 Stat.
385.
A deficiency in the number of grand jurors prescribed by law, there being
present and acting a greater number than that requisite for the finding
of an indictment, is not such a defect as vitiates the entire proceedings,
and compels his discharge on habeas co pus, though unnoticed by the
prisoner until after trial and sentence.
If it be doubtful whether the defendant can, after trial and verdict, take
advantage of such a defect by direct challenge, it is clear that the defect
does not go to the jurisdiction, and cannot be taken advantage of by a
collateral attack in habeascorpus.
It is unnecessary to decide whether the "sixty days"' limitation of the
sessions of the legislative assemblies of the Territories means a term of
sixty calendar days.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

it,

J Altheus Johnson for the petitioner.

.t'

Solicitor General opposing.

IMR. JusTio BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
On June 12, 1890, the petitioner was, by the District Court
of the Second Judicial District of the Territory of Arizona,
sentenced to be hung. He has sued out this habeas corpus to
test the validity of such sentence. He does not come here by
writ of error to review the proceedings, so that errors therein
may be corrected, but attacks them in this way, collaterally,
as void. His attack is rested on two propositions. The proceedings had were in a territorial court, sitting as a court of
the United States. The first claim is, that the court did not
have jurisdiction, of the offence charged. The indictment

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

charges the crime of murder committed upon one William
Fleming, within the White Mountain Indian Reservation,
in the Second Judicial District of the Territory of Arizona.
The petition alleges that the petitioner is a citizen of the
United States, of African descent, that William Fleming, the
person killed, was also a negro, that the Second Judicial District of Arizona is composed of four counties, one of them
being the county of Gila, and that the White Mountain
Indian Reservation is within said county of Gila. The reservation, therefore, is within the territorial limits of the Second
Judicial District, but the contention is that the District Court
of that district, sitting as a United States court, did not have
jurisdiction, but that it was vested alone in the District Court
sitting as a territorial court, and that the indictment should
have run in the name of the people of the Territory, instead of
in the name of the United States of America. The second
contention is, that the grand jury which indicted him was not
a legally constituted tribunal, in that it was composed of only
fifteen persons. In this respect it is admitted that by the laws
of the Territory of Arizona, in force until March 22, 1889,
grand juries were to be composed of not less than thirteen nor
more than fifteen members, (Revised Statutes Arizona, p. 384,
sec. 2164,) but it is claimed that on that day a law came into
force by which the number of members of a grand jury was
increased, and required to be not less than seventeen nor more
than twenty-three. Upon these two propositions the petitioner
denies the validity of the sentence against him, and asks that
he be discharged from custody
With respect to the first question, it may be observed that
the White Mountain Indian Reservation was a legally constituted Indian reservation. True, when the Territory of Arizona
was organized, on February 24, 1863, 12 Stat. 664, c. 56, there
was no such reservation, and it was created in the first instance
by order of the President in 1871. Whatever doubts there
might have been, if any, as to the validity of such executive
order, are put at rest by the act of Congress of February 8,
1887, 24 Stat. 388, c. 119, ยง 1, the first clause of which is
"That in all cases where any tribe or band of Indians has been

IN RE WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

or shall hereafter be, located upon any reservation created for
their use, either by treaty stipulations or by virtue of an act of
Congress or executive order setting apart the same for their
use, the President of the United States be, and he hereby is,
authorized, whenever in his opinion any reservation, or any
part thereof, of such Indians is advantageous for agricultural
and grazing purposes, to cause said reservation, or any part
thereof, to be surveyed, or resurveyed if necessary, and to allot
the lands in said reservation in severalty to any Indian located
thereon, in quantities, as follows."
The necessary effect of this legislative recognition was to
confirm the executive order, and establish beyond challenge
the Indian title to this reservation. Indeed, the fact that this
is an Indian reservation is not contested by the petitioner,
but rather assumed by him in his argument. His proposition
is, that "Congress by act approved March 3, 1885, 23 Stat.
385, c. 341, ยง 9, conferred upon the Territory and her courts
full jurisdiction of the offence of murder when committed on
an Indian reservation by an Indian. Bvxairte Gon-s8a-yee,
130 U. S. 343. This offence had heretofore, when committed
in such place by others than an Indian, been cognizable by
the courts of the United States under Rev Stat. ยง 2145. The
petitioner believes that the United States, by yielding up a
part of her jurisdiction over the offence of murder when committed on an Indian reservation, lost all, that is, that her
jurisdiction of the offence in the particular place must be
'sole and exclusive,' or will not exist at all, that it cannot be
that there shall be one law and one mode of trial for a murder in a particular place if committed by an Indian and another law and mode of trial for the identical offence in the
same place committed by a white man or a negro." We are
unable to yield our assent to this argument. The question is
one of statutory construction. The jurisdiction of the United
States over these reservations and the power of Congress to
provide for the punishment of all offences committed therein,
by whomsoever committed, are not open questions. United
States v. Eagama, 118 U. S. 375. And this power being a
general one, Congress may provide for the punishment of one
voL. cxL-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

class of offences in one court, and another class in a different
court. There is no necessity for, and no constitutional provision compelling, full and exclusive jurisdiction in one tribunal,
and the policy of Congress for a long time has been to give
only a limited jurisdiction to the United States courts. Section
2145 extends to the Indian country the general laws of the
United States, as to the punishment of crimes committed in
any place within the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States, except as to crimes the punishment of which is
otherwise expressly provided for. This Indian reservation is
a part of the Indian country within the meaning of that section. Bates v Clai.k, 95 U S. 204, Exoyarte Crow Dog, 109
U. S. 556. But this extension of the criminal laws of the
United States over the Indian country is limited by the section
immediately succeeding, 2146, as follows: "The preceding section shall not be construed to extend to crimes committed by
one Indian against the person or property of another Indian,
nor to any Indian committing any offence in the Indian country who has been punished by the local law of the tribe, or to
any case where, by treaty stipulations, the exclusive jurisdiction over such offences is or may be secured to the Indian tribes
respectively" So that before the act of 1885 the jurisdiction
of the United States courts whs not sole and exclusive over all
offences committed within the limits of an Indian reservation.
The words "sole and exclusive," in section 2145, do not apply
to the jurisdiction extended over the. Indian country, but are
only used in the description of the laws which are extended to
it. The effect of the act of 1885 was not to transfer to territorial courts a part of the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of
United.States courts, but only a part of the limited jurisdiction then exercised by such courts, together with jurisdiction
over offences not theretofore vested therein. The argument
of the petitioner therefore fails. There has been no transfer
of part of a sole and exclusive jurisdiction, carrying by implication, even in the absence of express language, a transfer of
all jurisdiction, but only a transfer of part of an already limited jurisdiction, and neither by ]anguage nor implication
transferring that theretofore vested and not in terms trans-

IN RE WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

ferred. We may here, in passing, notice that the distinction
between District Courts when sitting as courts of the Territory, and when sitting as courts of the United States, was
fully developed and explained in the case of Ex parte Gonsha-yee, supra, that by section 629 of the Revised Statutes
the Circuit Courts of the United States are given jurisdiction
of crimes and offences cognizable under the authority of the
United States; and that by the act organizing the Territory
of New Mexico, of September 9, 1850, 9 Stat. 446, c. 49, and
the subsequent act of February 24, 1863, 12 Stat. 664, c. 56,
organizing the Territory of Arizona, the District Courts of the
latter Territory were given the same jurisdiction in all cases
arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States
as is vested in the Circuit and District Courts of the United
States. It follows that as the Circuit Courts of the United
States have jurisdiction over the crime of murder committed
within any fort, arsenal or other place within the exclusive
jurisdiction of the United States, so, prior to 1885, the District
Courts of a Territory had jurisdiction over the crime of murder committed by any person other than an Indian, upon an
Indian reservation within its territorial limits, and that such
jurisdiction has not been taken away by the legislation of that
year. The first contention of petitioner, therefore, cannot be
sustained.
The second is equally untenable. His proposition is, that
the grand jury, which indicted him, was not a legally constituted tribunal - in that it was composed of only fifteen members- whereas, by an act of the legislature of the Territory
of Arizona, passed on March 12, 1889, a day before that upon
which the offence is charged to have been committed, it was
required that grand juries should be composed of not less than
seventeen nor more than twenty-three members. The response
thereto is, that no such act was passed, and that, even if it
were, the defect in the number of grand jurors did not vitiate
the entire proceedings, so that they could be challenged collaterally on habeas corpus, but it was only a matter of error,
to be corrected by proceedings in error. It appears from the
record that a challenge to the grand jury was made by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

petitioner and overruled, but the ground here presented was
not taken in such challenge.
With regard to this supposed act of the legislature, the official volume of the acts and resolutions of the legislative assembly of Arizona, of the year 1889, certified by the secretary of
the Territory, contains no such act. It is claimed, however,
that a bill passed both houses of the assembly -passing the
house on March 8, 1889, and the council, March 9, 1889 - as
appears from the assembly journals, and, on March 12, was
properly certified and placed in the hands of the governor for
his action, that he did not within ten days either approve by
signing it or return it without his signature to the house in
which it originated, and that the assembly continued in session until the 10th day of April, which was more than ten
days after the bill was placed in the hands of the governor,
whereby the bill passed into a law The contention on behalf
of the government is, that by virtue of the act of Congress of
December 23, 1880, 21 Stat. 312, which reads as follows "The session of the legislative assemblies of the various Territories of the United States shall be limited to sixty days' duration" - the session for the year 1889 was by law terminated
on the 21st day of March, sixty days from the day, January
21, on which by law and in fact it commenced. It is urged
that the sixty days mentioned in the statute means sixty calendar days, and that at the expiration of such sixty days the
session terminates as a matter of law, and the legislative
assembly has no power to do any valid act thereafter, or even
to remain in session. The petitioner insists that the sixty days
means sixty legislative days- days in which the legislature is
actually in session, that the legislature acted upon this construction by continuing in session until the 10th day of April,
and was thus a defacto legislature at least.
This presents an interesting question of statutory construction, one into which, however, we deem it unnecessary to
enter. As it is a question, if it had been duly presented to the
District Court, a court having jurisdiction over the offence
and the prisoner, and by it erroneously decided, can it be that
such erroneous decision would have vitiated the proceedings

INRE WILSON.
Opmion of the Court.

and rendered void the sentence thereafter rendered2 We
think not. Does the fact that the question was not presented
put the case in any worse position than if presented and erroneously decided ? Assuming that this act of 1889 was legally
passed, and was a law of the Territory, let us see what
changes were accomplished by it. Prior thereto, as we have
noticed, grand juries were to be composed of not less than
thirteen nor more than fifteen members. The amendment
made by this act provided that they should be composed of
not less than seventeen nor more than twenty-three members.
The record discloses that there were but fifteen members.
Prior to 1889, the Territorial law authorized the finding of an
indictment on the concurrence of twelve grand jurors. iRev
Statutes, Arizona, 778, sec. 1430. A similar provision is found
in the Federal statutes. Rev Stat. sec. 1021. The act of
1889 made no change in this respect, so, whether the grand
jury was composed of thirteen - the lowest number sufficient
under the prior law-or twenty-three, the highest number
named in the act of 1889, the concurrence of twelve would have
required the finding of an indictment. By petitioner's argument, if there had been two more grand jurors it would have
been a legal body If the two had been present, and had
voted against the indictment, still such opposing votes would
not have prevented its finding by the concurrence of the twelve
who did in fact vote in its favor. It would seem, therefore,
as though the error was not prejudicial to the substantial
rights of the petitioner.
Again, by section 1392 of the Arizona Penal Code, (Arizona
Rev Statutes, '75,) "A person held to answer to a charge for
a public offence can take advantage of any objection to the
panel or to an individual grand juror in no other mode than
by challenge." A challenge, as heretofore stated, was in fact
made, but not on the ground now presented. When by statute a particular way is prescribed for raising an objection, and
a party neglects to pursue the statutory way, and the objection is one which could have been cured at the time if attention had been called to it, must he not be adjudged to have
lontgomery v. The State, 3 Kansas,
waived that objection?

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

263. In that case, which was one in which an irregularity in
impanelling a jury was the error complained of, the court
observed "Under the Criminal Code a party charged with
crime may have the benefit of all just matters of defence as
well as of all defects and imperfections in the proceedings
against him on the part of the State which tend to prejudice
his rights. But he must assert his privilege in the proper
way and at the proper time, or he may be deemed to have
waived it."
If it be said that the section of the Arizona Penal Code
does not apply to proceedings in the District Courts sitting as
United States courts, we pass to the general question, whether
a deficiency in the number of grand jurors prescribed by law,
there being present and acting a greater number than that
requisite for the finding of an indictment, is such a defect as,
though unnoticed by the prisoner until after trial and sentence,
vitiates the entire proceedings and compels his discharge on
habeas corpus9 That question must be answered in the negative. The case of Exo parte Watksns, 3 Pet. 193, is an early
and leading case on the question of the power of this court to
examine on habeas co2pus into the proceedings of a court of
general ciiminal jurisdiction. In that case Watkins had been
convicted in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia, a court of general criminal jurisdiction.
He filed his petition for a writ of habeas cm pus, setting forth
a copy of the indictment and sentence, and sought a discharge
from custody on the ground that the indictment charged no
offence punishable in the Circuit Court, or of which it could
take cognizance, and that therefore the proceedings were coram
non udice and totally void. The court unanimously, Chief
Justice Marshall delivering the opinion, denied the application.
We quote as follows "This writ is, as has been said, in the
nature of a writ of error which brings up the body of the prisoner, with the cause of commitment. The court can undoubtedly inquire into the sufficiency of that cause; but if it be the
judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, especially a judgment withdrawn by law from the revision of this court, is not
that judgment in itself sufficient cause? Can the court, upon

IN RE WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

this writ, look beyond the judgment and reexamine the charges
on which it was rendered? A judgment, in its nature, concludes the subject on which it is rendered, and pronounces the
law of the case. The judgment of a court of record, whose
jurisdiction is final, is as conclusive to all the world as the judgment of this court would be. It is as conclusive on this court
as it is on other courts. It puts an end to inquiry concerning
the fact by deciding it." pp. 202, 203. And again "An imprisonment under a judgment cannot be unlawful unless that
.judgment be an absolute nullity; and it is not a nullity if the
court has general jurisdiction of the subject, although it should
be erroneous. The Circuit Court for the District of Columbia
is a court of record, having general jurisdiction over criminal
cases. An offence cognizable in any court is cognizable in
that court. If the offence be punishable by law, that court is
competent to inflict the punishment. The judgment of such a
tribunal has all the obligation which the judgment of any tribunal can have. To determine whether the offence charged
in the indictment be legally punishable or not is among the
most unquestionable of its powers and duties. The decision
of this question is the exercise of jurisdiction, whether the
judgment be for or against the prisoner. The judgment is
equally binding in the one case and in the other, and must
remain in full force unless reversed regularly by a superior
court capable of reversing it." p. 203.
It may be true that subsequent decisions of this court have
softened a little the rigor of the rule thus declared. ELparte
Bar, 121 U. S. 1, is cited in support of this claim. In that
case it appeared that after the indictment had been returned
to and filed with the court, a change was made in its language
by the prosecuting attorney, on permission and order of the
court. It was held on habeas corpus that such a change was
beyond the power of the court, and that its jurisdiction was
ended thereby as fully as if the indictment had been dismissed
or a nolle }rosegu entered, and therefore that a judgment
rendered thereafter against the petitioner was one rendered'
without jurisdiction and void, and that the prisoner was
entitled to his discharge. And yet m the opinion the distiuc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

tion between matter of error and matter of jurisdiction was
noticed, for it was said. "Upon principles which may be
considered to be well settled in this court, it can have no right
to issue this writ as a means of reviewing the judgment of the
Circuit Court, simply upon the ground of error in its proceedings; but if it shall appear that the court had no jurisdiction
to render the judgment which it gave, and under which the
petitioner is held a prisoner, it is within the power and it will
be the duty of this court to order his discharge." p. 3. See
also In Pe Coy, 127 U. S. 731, 757, In re Wood, 140 U. S.278,
370, In re Skibuya Jug.o, 140 U S. 291.
As the question whether the grand jury should be constituted of fifteen or seventeen members was a matter which
must necessarily be considered and determined by the trial
court, its ruling thereon, however erroneous, would seem
within the above authorities to present simply a matter of
error, and not be sufficient to oust the jurisdiction. Indeed,
it may be considered doubtful, at least, whether such a defect
is not waived if not taken advantage of before trial and judgment. In the case of United States v Gale, 109 U. S. 65, a
question as to the competency of the grand jury was presented
for the first time on a motion in arrest of judgment, and from
the decision of the trial court came to this court on a certificate of division. The objection was that in the organization
of the grand jury the court, under the authority of section
820, Revised Statutes, excluded from the panel persons otherwise qualified, who voluntarily took part in the rebellion.
The unconstitutionality of this section was asserted, but this
court declined to pass upon that question, holding that the
defendants, by pleading to the indictment and going to trial
without making any objection to the grand jury, waived any
right of subsequent complaint on account thereof. Mr. Justice
Bradley, delivering the opinion of the court, reviews the authorities at length, and shows that they clearly sustain the conclusion announced. The opinion is carefully guarded, and
does not reach to the precise question here presented, but its
implication, and the drift of the authorities referred to, is that
a defect in the constitution or organization of a grand jury

IN RE WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

which does not prevent the presence of twelve competent
jurors, by whose votes the indictment is found, and which
could have been cured if the attention of the court had been
called to it at the time, or promptly remedied by the empanelling of a competent grand jury, is waived if the defendant
treats the indictment as sufficient, pleads not guilty, and goes
to trial on the merits of the charge. There is good sense in
this conclusion. The indictment is the charge of the State
against the defendant, the pleading by which he is informed
of the fact, and the nature and scope of the accusation. When
that indictment is presented, that accusation made, that pleading filed, the accused has two courses of procedure open to
him. He may question the propriety of the accusation, the
manner in which it has been presented, the source from which
it proceeds, and have these matters promptly and properly
determined, or, waiving them, he may put in issue the truth
of the accusation and demand the judgment of his peers on
the merits of the charge. If he omits the former and chooses
the latter, he ought not, when defeated on the latter, when
found guilty of the crime charged, to be permitted to go
back to the former and inquire as to the manner and means
by which the charge was presented. See upon this question
Wharton's Criminal Pleading and Practice, sec. 353, 1 Chitty's
Criminal Law, page 309, People v -Robinson, 2 Parker Cr.
Rep. 233-308, et seq., I Bishop on Criminal Procedure, see.
884, Shropshre v. Tke State, 12 Arkansas, 190.
If it be, therefore, a doubtful question, whether the defendant can, after trial and verdict, take advantage of such a
defect by direct challenge, it would clearly seem that it is one
not going to the matter of jurisdiction, and one which cannot
be taken advantage of by a collateral attack m kabeas corpus.
The application must therefore be
Denied, and the _etitioner remanded to the custody of the
marshaZ.

