OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

nnssioners made upon the hearing in the county court of the
petitions filed by different parties were so made under private
arrangements between the commissioners and those parties, of
which other property owners along Dupont Street had no
notice, and by which such owners were injuriously affected,
that the Board of Commissioners selected experts to "assist"
it in estimating the damages for property taken and injured
by the proposed improvement and the benefits accruing
therefrom, and that the report of those experts was accepted
by the commissioners, without themselves making or attemptng to make an appraisement of -damages or an assessment of
benefits under the statute, and that such appraisement and
assessment were not in fact correct, fair or just, but were
fraudulent. In respect to all these and like objections, it is
sufficient to say that they do not necessarily involve any
question of a Federal nature, and, so far as this court is concerned, are concluded by the decision of the Supreme Court of
California.
We are of opinion, upon the whole case, that the Supreme
Court of California correctly held that the plaintiffs had not
been, or were not about to be, deprived of their property, in
violation of the Constitution of the United States.
Deoree afflrmed.
3MRi.JuSTlo

FiELD.

I dissent.

ESSEX PUBLIC ROAD BOARD v. SKINKLE.
ERROR TO THE SU:REME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 262. Submitted March 25, 1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

An executive agency, created by a statute of a State for the purpose of
improving public highways, and empowered to assess the cost of its
improvements upon adjoining lands, and to put up for sale and buy in
for a term of years for its own use any such lands delinquent in the
payment of the assessment, does not, by such a purchase, acquire a con-

ESSEX PUBLIC ROAD BOARD v. SKINKLE.

335

Statement of the Case.
tract right in the land so bought which the State cannot modify without
violating the provisions of the Constitution of the United States.
Such a transaction is matter of law and not of contract, and as such is not
open to constitutional objections.
Even as to third parties an assessment is not a contract in the sense in
which the word is used in the Constitution of the United States.

THE case is thus stated in the opinion of the Court of Errors
and Appeals of New Jersey, delivered by Mr. Justice Parker,
and reported in 49 N. J Law, (20 Vroom) 641, 664
"' The Essex Public Road Board' was created by an act of
the legislature, approved March 31st, 1869. The object of the
act was to create a body charged with the duty of constructing
and maintaining a better class of public carriage roads in the

county of Essex.
"The fifth section of the act -provides for the assessment of
damages sustained by owners of lands taken for roads, and
also for assessment upon other lands benefited by such roads.
" The fifteenth section provides that the assessments laid for
benefits shall be and remain liens upon the lands benefited
until paid, and where the assessments are not paid, authority
is given to the board to sell such lands at public sale to any
person who will take it for the shortest period of time, not
exceeding fifty years, and pay the full amount due on the
assessment.
"1The section last named also enacts that the road board
shall give to the purchaser of the lands a certificate of sale,
describing the premises so sold, and the length of time, for
which they were purchased, and also contains the further
provision that if at the end of three years from the day of sale
the lands shall not have been redeemed, the board, upon surrender of said certificate, shall execute and deliver to the purchaser a declaration of sale of said lands, with the provision
that the time for redeeming the same shall remain open (notwithstanding the term of three years may have expired) until
the term for which the purchaser agreed to take the same
shall be ended.
"By a supplement, approved March 31st, 1875, it was provided -that such lands as were not bid off, when offered at the

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

original sale, or at a resale, when the first purchaser failed to
comply, should be struck off to the road board by its corporate
name, for the term of fifty years, and that it might be held
and sold or assigned and disposed of by said board for the use
of the county, with all the rights and privileges of a purchaser
at such sale, and subject to the same conditions and limitations.
"On the 31st day of March, 1882, an act was passed which
gives power to compound, adjust and compromise any tax or
assessment which may have been laid, or might thereafter be
laid by virtue of the powers conferred by the acts concerning
the road board, between the board and the owner or mortgagee of any land which may have been or thereafter might
be taxed or assessed for benefits, and to discharge the land
from the lien of such tax or assessment, upon payment of the
sum agreed upon.
"The said last-mentioned act also provides that in case of
an application by any owner or mortgagee for an adjustment,
with the road board, of any tax or assessment laid, and their
failure to agree, or in case of neglect or refusal of the board
to act upon the application, the owner or mortgagee who made
the application to the board for adjustment may petition the
justice of the Supreme Court who holds the circuit court of
the county where the land lies, for the appointment of arbitrators to settle and adjust the matter in difference between
the petitioner and the board.
"The third section of the act last mentioned provides that
the said justice of the Supreme Court, if in his discretion he
deems it a proper case for arbitration, shall appoint arbitrators, who, after notice and hearing, shall fix and adjust a specific sum to be paid by the owner or mortgagee so petitioning,
in full settlement and discharge of the tax or assessment, provided, that said act shall not apply to cases where the land
had been sold for taxes or assessments and bought by a bona
fiXde purchaser, other than the board or its representative.
"The said act also requires that the arbitrators shall report
in writing to said justice of the Supreme Court. who will order
it filed with the clerk of the county, and that upon service of

ESSEX PUBLIC ROAD BOARD v. SKINKLE.

337

Statement of the Case.

a certified copy of such report on the road board, with the
tender of the amount named therein, together with interest, to
the board, it shall, by its proper officers, receipt the tax or
assessment against such land in full and give a release and
acquittance of the same from the lien of any such tax .or assessment, and that the said land shall, by operation thereof, be
freed, released and discharged from the lien and incumbrance
thereof.
"Under the act of 1882, Jacob Skinkle, the defendant in
error, presented a petition to the justice of the Supreme Court
who holds the circuit court of Essex County, asking for the
appointment of arbitrators to settle and adjust the matter n
difference between him and the Essex Public Road Board, in
reference to certain assessments for benefits, which had been
imposed on certain lands of ohis, under the act incorporating
the Essex County Road Board and supplements thereto.
"It appears by the petition that the title to the lands on
which the assessments for benefits had been laid, at the time
they were laid, and at the time the improvements were made,
stood in the name of Caleb B. Headley, and that the said
Jacob Skinkle held a mortgage thereon, and that subsequently (but before the filing of the petition) said Skinkle
became the owner thereof by purchase, under foreclosure proceedings on his mortgage.
"The petition of Skinkle states that he had applied in writing to the road board for an agreement and compromise of
the assessments on said land, laid for benefits, and that said
board had declined to entertain the same.
"After presentation of the petition, duly verified, to the
justice, and after testimony bad been taken, the said justice
certified to the Supreme Court for its advisory opinion, a number of questions of law, which had been raised before him, on
the motion to appoint arbitrators. The Supreme Court heard
argument upon the questions which had been certified, and
returned to said justice its advisory opinion, in which the legal
position of the petitioner on all the questions certified was sustained. Whereupon the justice proceeded under the petition
and appointed arbitrators to settle and adjust the matter, and
VOL. cXL-22

OCTOBER TERIT,

1890.

Counsel for Parties.

to hear parties and their witnesses, and to fix the sum to be
paid by the petitioner in full settlement and discharge of said
assessments laid by the Essex Public Road Board upon said
land.
"The arbitrators reported that they fixed and adjusted a
specific sum (naming the amount) to be paid by said Skinlde to
the road board, in full settlement and discharge of the assessments which had been made on said land, in order to make
said assessment conform in amount to the benefits conferred
upon said property by the improvements. Upon coming in of
the report the justice ordered it filed. Then the road board,
by writ of certwrart, brought all the proceedings to the
Supreme Court, where it was decided that there was no
error.
"The writ of error to this court, therefore, brings before us
all the questions which were raised before the justice and by
him certified as aforesaid, as well as the legality of the action
of the arbitrators in fixing the amount to be paid by the
petitioner in discharge of the assessments on the lands."
The opinions of the Supreme Court are to be found in 47
N. X Law (18 Vroom) 93, and 49 N. J Law (20 Vroom) 65.
The Court of Errors and Appeals held that the act entitled
"An act to authorize the compromising or settling by arbitration of any tax or assessment laid by any public road board in
this State," approved March 31, 1882, was constitutional, that
it was retrospective in its character; that either the owner of
the land or the mortgagee might apply, that a case was made
which justified the justice in appointing abitrators, that the
proceedings and report of the arbitrators were legal, and that
there was no difficulty in carrying out the .provisions of the
act. The judgment of the Supreme Court of New Jersey was
affirmed, and the record remitted to that court, and the cause
brought here on writ of error.
Hr J WT Taylor for plaintiff in error. A&' Joseph A.
Beecher was with him on the brief.
XAr J Tr'ank F/ort for defendant in error.

ESSEX PUBLIC ROAD BOARD v. SKINKLE.

339

Opinion of the Court.

MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER

delivered the opimon of the

court.
Was the obligation of a contract impaired, or plaintiff deprived of property without due process of law, by the act of
March 31, 18829
The argument is that, because the real estate assessed might,
in the absence of purchasers at the sale to enforce the assessment, be struck off to the board for the term of fifty years,
under the 5th section of the act of 1875, (Laws of N. J 1875,
420,) and might "be held and sold, assigned and disposed of
by said board, for the use of the county, with all the rights
and privileges of a purchaser at such sale," the board, whenever this happened, became vested with a term in the real
estate so struck off to it by the same title, and subject to the
same protection, which any other bonaftde purchaser at such
sale would have acquired under section 15 of the act of 1869.
Laws of N. J. 1869, 957. And that, therefore, the act of
1882, (Laws of N. J 1882, 256,) in providing a mode by which
the assessment might be compounded, compromised and discharged, and that this might be done where the real estate
had not been sold to a bona flde purchaser other than the public road board or its representative, impaired and annulled an
executed contract, and took for the defendant's private use
property vested in the board.
We do not concur in this view The public road board was
an involuntary qzuasn corporation, created to construct a public work and authorized to procure the means to accomplish
the improvement by the imposition of assessments upon private property It was purely a governmental agency, existing wholly for public purposes, and whose interests belonged
exclusively to the public. The power of the legislature over
it was plenary It held, and could hold, no real estate in a
proprietary or private sense, and after it was empowered to
bid in at its own sale, it acquired no more proprietary interest
in the real estate struck off to it, than it had had in the assessment. Its purchase was in perpetuation of the lien and in
aid of collection, and it was as competent for the legislature,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the -Court.

as between it and its own agent, to prescribe terms upon
which the land owner might redeem, as to abolish the board
and rescind the assessment altogether, as it might do, saving
any vested rights of third parties.
The entire transaction was matter of law and not of contract, and as such, open to no constitutional objection. Comm s&oners.v Lucas, 93 U. S. 108, .Newton v Commesswners,
100 IU.S. 548, -Maryland v Balt. & Ohio Railroad Co., 3
How 534.
Even as to third parties an assessment is not a contract in
the sense in which the word is used in the Constitution of the
United States, and whether rights arising thereon have become vested depends upon circumstances. Garrison v NYew
Fork, 21 Wall. 196, Balt. & Ssquehanna Railroad v INesbit, 10 How 395.
In Garrisonv Nlew York, this court decided that the New
York act of 1871, authorizing the Supreme Court of the State
to vacate an order made in 1870, confirming the report of the
commissioners respecting property taken for a public improvement, if error, mistake, irregularity or illegality appeared in
the proceedings, or the assessments for benefits or the awards
for damage bad been unfair and unjust, or inequitable or oppressive, and to refer the matter back to new commissioners
to amend or correct the report, or to make a new assessment,
was not unconstitutional.
Mr. Justice Field, delivering the opinion of the court, said
"In the proceeding to condemn the property of the plamtiff
for a public street, there was nothing in the nature of a contract between him and the city The State, in virtue of her
right of eminent domain, had authorized the city to take his
property for a public purpose, upon making to him just compensation. All that the constitution or justice required was
that a just compensation should be made to him, and his property would then be taken whether or not he assented to the
measure. The proceeding to ascertain the benefits or losses
which will accrue to the owner of property when taken for
public use, and thus the compensation to be made to him, is
in the nature of an inquest on the part of the State, and is

ESSEX PUBLIC ROAD BOARD v. SKINKLE.

341

Opinion of the Court.

necessarily under her control. It is her duty to see that the
estimates made are just, not merely to the individual whose
property is taken, but to the public which is to pay for it.
And she can to that end vacate or authorize the vacation of
any inquest taken by her direction, to ascertain particular
facts for her guidance, where the proceeding has been irregularly or fraudulently conducted, or in which error has intervened, and order a new inquest, provided such methods of
procedure be observed as will secure a fair hearing from the
parties interested in the property
Until the property
is actually taken, and the compensation is made or provided,
the power of the State over the matter has not ended. Any
declaration in the statute that the title will vest at a particular time, must be construed in subordination to the constitution, -which requires, except in cases of emergency admitting
of no delay, the payment of the compensation, or provision
for its payment, to precede the taking, or at least to be concurrent with it."
In Balt. & Susquehanna Railroad v Nesbit, the State of
Maryland granted a charter to a railroad company, in which
provision was made for the condemnation of land by the
assessment of damages by a jury and the confirmation of the
award by the county court. The charter further provided
that the payment or tender of payment of such valuation
should entitle the company to the property as fully as if it had
been conveyed. In 1836 there was an inquisition by a jury
condemning certain lands, which was ratified and confirmed
by the county court. In 184:1 the legislature passed an act
directing the court to set aside the inquisition and order a new
one. On the 18th of April, 1844, the railroad company tendered the amount of the damages, with interest, to the owner
of the land, which offer was refused, and on the 26th of April,
1844, the owner applied to the county court to set aside the
inquisition and make a new one, which the court directed to
be done. It was held that the law of 1841 was not a law
impairing the obligation of a contract, and that it neither
changed the contract between the company and the State, nor
did it divest the company of a vested title to the land.

OCTOBER TER!I, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Undoubtedly the distinction exists, as counsel urges, between
regulation and appropriation, and under the Constitution of
New Jersey, as under those of the other States, the legislative
power is not so transcendent that it may at its will do that
which amounts to an arbitrary divestiture of the private property of a municipal corporation.
In Railroad Co. v Ellerman, 105 U. S. 166, 172, which
involved the right of the city of New Orleans to erect and
maintain wharves within its limits and to collect wharfage
under its charter and the statutes of Louisiana, it was held
that no right of the city was infringed by a subsequent enactment of the general assembly of that State granting to a railroad company the authority to enclose and occupy for its
purposes and uses a specifically described portion of the levee
and batture and maintain the wharf it had theretofore erected
upon its property within those limits, and exempting it from
the supervision and control which the municipal authorities
exercised in a matter of public wharves. And Mr. Justice
Matthews, delivering the opinion of the court, said "Neither
would this be in derogation of any vested right of the city
Whatever power the municipal body rightfully enjoys over
the subject is derived from the legislature. They are merely
administrative and may be revoked at any time, not touching,
of course, any property of the city actually acquired in the
course of administration."
But no question involving that distinction arises here. There
is no contract with or grant to the public road board, which
the State could not resume, and in no aspect can the board
be regarded as acting in a private capacity, or as having
acquired a private interest in real estate struck off to it for
want of purchasers.
We may properly consider the case in another aspect, equally
decisive. The road board act prescribed that assessments
should be made in proportion to, and not in excess of, the
benefits conferred by the improvement, and by the law under
consideration the road board was enabled to compound, adjust
and compromise any tax or taxes, assessment or assessments,
that might have been, or might thereafter be, laid or imposed

ESSEX PUBLIC ROAD BOARD v. SKINKLE.

343

Opinion of the Court.

by virtue of the road board acts, and in case of application
by the owner or mortgagee for a compromise and adjustment,
and on the failure of agreement between the board and the
applicant, the applicant could apply on notice for the appointment of arbitrators, and the statute provided for a hearing
of all the parties in interest, and for a full review of the proceedings through the judicial tribunals of the State. The
record clearly shows that the legislature intended by the act
of 1882 to correct the results of previous action, which had
been so mistaken and oppressive as to call for interference.
In Commrsszwners v -Lucas,93 U S. 108, it was ruled that
unless restrained by the provisions of its constitution, the legislature of a State possesses the power to direct a restitution to
taxpayers- of a county, or other municipal corporation, of
property exacted from them by taxation, into whatever form
the property may be changed, so long as it remains in the
possession of the municipality, and that the exercise of this
power infringed upon no provision of the Federal Constitution.
The Supreme Court of New Jersey was manifestly right in
holding that the object of the law was to give an appeal to
the land owner, where the judgment against him would otherwise be final, and to so far review previous action as to secure
the result of an assessment made in proportion to, and not in
excess of, the benefits conferred by the improvement, and the
learned judge who delivered the opinion well said "KRestoration to the injured party, by the judgment of the tribunal
established by this law, of the sum taken from him in excess
of the benefits conferred, cannot constitute an illegal taking
of property from the road board." Skznkle v Essex RoaC
Board, 47T N. J Law, 93, 99.
It is unnecessary to pursue the subject further. We concur
with the views expressed by the courts of New Jersey, and
the judgment is
Afflrmed.

