CLARK THREAD CO. v. WILLIMANTIC LINEN C0.

481

Counsel for Parties.

CLARK THREAD COMPANY V. WILLIMANTIC
LINEN COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 31. Argued October 22, 23, 1890.-Decided May 25, 1891.

The invention for winding thread upon spools, patented in Great Britain to
William Weild by letters patent granted January 22, 1858, the specification being filed July 22, 1858, was published by the filing of the specification before Hezekiah Conant discovered and invented the Improvement
in machines for winding thread on spools, secured to him by letters
patent of the United States, of December 13, 1859, (but antedated June
22, 1859,) and numbered 26,415, and, consequently, the use of Weild's
invention in the United States does not subject the person using it to
liability to pay damages to the owners of Conant's patent for such use,
or to being restrained in equity from further using it.
A copy of a patent was attached to a deposition as an exhibit, and the
deposition was read at the trial and was returned in the transcript as
part of the record by the clerk of the Circuit Court, certified under the
seal of the court.. Held that, although the deposition contained no
express minute that the patent was offered in evidence, it must be
received as so offered.
The evidence of a patentee offered by the owner of the patent in a suit for
an infringement of it, as to the actual day when his invention was made,
when that becomes material, must be taken most strongly against those
who offer it.
When the defendant in a suit for infringement of a patent shows that the
machine which he is using, and which is claimed to be an infringement,
was patented and in use before the date of the plaintiff's patent, the
burden of proof is on the latter to show that his invention preceded
that of the machine which the defendant is using.

Iw EQurrY for the infringement of letters patent. Decree
for the complainant. Defendants appealed. The case is
stated in the opinion.

.M Edmund Wetnwre (with whom was Mrn li
GCiford) for appellant.

ngston

.Mr' Clarence A. Seward and Mr TF C. Witter for appellees. 2fr Benjamin F Lhurston, and Mr TV .. Kenyon
were with .21r Witter on his brief.
VOL. Cxx--31

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit brought by the appellees against the appellants on a patent issued to Hezekiah Conant for an improvement in machines for winding thread on spools. The patent
was issued December 13, 1859, but antedated 22d June, 1859,
and at its expiration was renewed for seven years from 22d
June, 1873, finally expiring in 1880. Its number was 26,415.
The bill was filed in February, 1872, charging the defendants
with infringement, and praying for injunction, damages, etc.
The defendants promptly answered, and the cause lay until
February, 1874, when the complainants filed a supplemental bill
setting up the extension of the patent, and repeating the
charge of infringement. The defendants answered, and the
parties went into proofs. In May, 1879, the Circuit Court,
held by District Judge Nixon, rendered a decree in favor of
the validity of the patent, adjudged that the defendants had
infringed the first and third claims thereof, granted an injunction, and ordered a reference to a master to take an account
of profits and damages against the defendants. 4 Bann. &
Ard. 133. After a long contest in the master's office, a report
was filed in October, 1884, awarding damages to the complainants in the sum of $159,035.22. The defendants filed
exceptions, which were overruled by the court, and a final
decree for the amount awarded was entered on the 17th of
June, 1886. The present appeal was taken from that decree.
One of the principal points of controversy on which the
case turns was indicated by the complainants themselves in
their original bill. They say
"And your orators further represent that the said defendants sometimes pretend that they have a right to make use of
their said machines for winding thread on spools and to make
sale of like machines to others to be used, because they say
that such machines are described in letters patent of Great
Britain granted to William Weild on the 22d day of January,
A.Dl. 1858, upon a specification filed July 22, 1858, and that
the same invention was subsequently patented to the said
Weild in the United States on the 2d of January, A.D. 1866,

CLARK THREAD CO. v. WILLIMANTIC LINEN CO. 483
Opinion of the Court.

and they further pretend that said British letters patent anticipate the invention of said Conant. But your- orators aver
the fact to be that the application of said Conant for letters
patent for his invention was made and filed in the Patent
Office prior to the date of the sealing of said British letters
patent to said Weild, and that the invention of said Conant,
for which letters patent were granted to him as aforesaid,
was made before the publication or date of sealing of said
British letters patent of said Weild."
The allegation that Conant's application for his patent was
made and filed in the Patent Office prior to the date of the
sealing of Weild's British patent is not correct. It is not
proved, and the contrary appears to be the truth. Conant's
application was first filed on the 5th or 6th of January, 1859,
and was afterwards withdrawn and renewed on the last of
April or first of May in the same year. The specification annexed to the patent is dated the 11th of April, 1859, and the
drawings are marked as received in the office and filed Tanuary 6, 1858, [an evident mistake for 1859,] and received and
filed in new application May 2, 1859. There is a certified
copy of the file wrapper and contents in the record which
shows that the original application was filed in the office January 5, 1859, and was withdrawn and a new application filed
April 30, 1859, the papers being received in the examiner's
office a day or two later in each case. But as this copy of the
file wrapper and contents was only introduced on an unsuccessful motion for a rehearing, and not in the principal case, it
may not be proper to rely upon it in a matter affecting the
merits. There is other evidence, however, sufficient to verify
the same facts.
The allegation that the znvention of Conant, for which his
said letters patent were granted, was made before the publication or sealing of Weild's patent requires more careful consideration.
The defendants, in their answer, denied that they had
infringed Conant's patent, and denied that he was the first
inventor of what is claimed to be patented thereby, and
averred "that on the contrary, the same, under the broad

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opimon of the Court.

construction thereof claimed for it by complainants, was,
prior to any invention thereof by said Conant, described in
and patented by letters patent granted by the government of
Great Britain to Archibald Thomson, which were dated the
10th day of November, 1801, and numbered 25,053, also described in and patented by letters patent granted by the government of Great Britain to Win. Young, which were dated
the 2d day of December, 1848, and numbered 12,353, also
described in and patented by letters patent granted by the
government of Great Britain to Thomas Willis, which were
dated the 1st day of June, 1852, and numbered 14,151, also
described in and patented by letters patent granted by the
government of Great Britain to John Wibberly, which were
dated the 4th day of December, 1853, and numbered 2901."
As to the Weild patent, referred to in the bill of complaint,
the defendants answered as follows
"And these defendants, further answering, say that letters
patent of the United States for an invention in machines for
winding thread upon spools were granted to William Weild,
dated the 2d day of January, 1866, and that the only machine
which these defendants have used for winding thread on
spools, and those which they now have in use for that purpose,
were purchased by them from said Weild under said patent,
and were made in conformity therewith, and that they paid
said Weild royalty for the use of the same.
"And these defendants, further answering on information
and belief, say that said letters patent for said last-named
invention were granted by the government of Great Britain
to said Weild, dated January 22, 1858, and sealed April 30,
1858.
"And these defendants, further answering, say that they do
not know and are not informed, save by said bill of complaint,
when said Cpuant made his application for the letters patent
upon which this suit is brought, or whether or not the same
or the invention of said Conant was made prior to the sealing
of the English patent to Weild, and leave the complainants to
make such proof thereof as they may be advised is material.
"And these defendants, further answering on information

CLARK THREAD CO. v. WILLIIANTIC LIKEN CO. 485
Opnion of the Court.

and belief, deny that said Conant made his alleged invention
before the date of said foreign letters patent to said Weild.
"And these defendants say that they are informed and believe that said Weild made the invention for which said patents
were issued to him and put the same into public use prior to
the time of said Conant's alleged invention."
We have thus adverted to the pleadings for the purpose of
showing that the issue as to the priority of Weild's patent
over the invention of Conant was raised by the complainants
themselves in their bill of complaint, and was accepted by the
defendants in their answer. This should settle all doubt as to
the relevancy of that question in disposing of the case on its
merits.
Objection was made that the Weild patent was not duly
proved in the case, but without foundation. It appears by
the record that, at an examination of witnesses on the part of
the defendants before W C. Witter, examiner, by consent,
continued from time to time from June 17, 1875, to April 8,
1876, one Boyd Eliot, being under examination, was asked,
amongst other things
"3 Q. Have you read and examined the copy- Weild patent,
defendant's Exhibit William Weild
"A. I have.
"14Q. Do you find therein described the defendants' machines
of which Exhibit 5 is a model in part?
"A. I do, substantially the same."
At the end of the depositions of the witnesses are the exhibits referred to therein, among which is the copy of the Weild
patent in question, marked "Defendants' Exhibit William
Weild, W C. W Ex'r ," and at the end of the entire record
is the certificate of the clerk of the Circuit Court verifying
the same, under the seal of the court, as a true transcript of
all the proceedings in the cause on file and of record in his
office at Trenton. The patent was referred to and used in
the examination, was marked as an exhibit in the cause by
the examiner and is actually found in the record and returned
and certified as a part thereof. Though the depositions contain no express minute that the patent was offered in evidence,

OCTOBER TERII, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

we think that it must be received as so offered.

Nearly the

same. question arose in Hoskm v Fishker, 125 U S. 217, in
relation to a patent marked as an exhibit, and we held that it

was sufficiently authenticated as a part of the evidence in the
case. If the Weild patent was improperly inserted in the
record, the complainant should have moved the court *below
to have it excluded before the transcript was sent to this court.
As this patent, in our view, has an important bearing on
the questions involved in the case, it is proper that we should
examine with some care the allegation in the bill of complaint
that Conant made his invention before the patent was recorded and published, which is conceded to have been on the
22d day of July, 1858, six months after it was granted and
after its date. The question is important because the law is
that any person sued for infringement of an American patent
may show in defence that the invention claimed was patented
or described in some printed publication [not before the American patent was granted - nor before the application for it was
filed, but] before the patentee's supposed invention or discovery
thereof. Rev Stat. ยง 4920. It is also important, because the
defendants proved that the machines used by them, and
charged to be infringements of Conant's invention, were built
in Manchester, England, and obtained from Weild himself,
and constructed in accordance with his patent. It would seem
to be very clear, therefore, that unless the invention of Conant
was made and perfected before the 22d day of July, 1858, the
time of publication of Weild's patent, the defendants had a
perfect defence to the suit, either on the ground that the Weild
patent anticipated Conant's invention, or that Conant's patent,
in view of the state of the art, must be so construed and restricted as not to embrace any portion of the Weild patent in which case the defendants could not be justly charged with
infringement.
The only evidence on the question as to the time of Conant's
invention is his own testimony, a species of evidence which, in
cases of this kind, ought to be received with great caution.
The following question was put to him by his counsel
"Q. 4. Please state when you made the invention which is

CLARK THREAD CO. v. WILLIMANTIC L NEN CO. 487
Opinion of the Court.

described in the aforesaid letters patent granted to you, give
the date of its conception and the successive stages of its
development."
His answer was as follows
"My attention was drawn to this point of the matter of
winding thread automatically by machinery some time during
the year 1857. I worked at intervals at making drawings
and trying to develop different motions and devices, and, to
the best of my recollection, I fixed upon a definite style of
machine, which I proposed to build some time during that
year, and prosecuted the thing so far as to have some of the
patterns made, but was interrupted during the winter, and,
on further reflection, in the spring of 1858, I decided upon
another style of machine, which I thought would be more
certain in its action, and which I completed during the summer of-and, to the best of my recollection, in July-1858.
The part of my machine called the traverse changer was the
same in the first set of drawings as it is in present use. The
various devices for accomplishing the change required to wind
different lengths were carefully studied over, and I fixed on
this present style of traverse changer, with different lengths
of teeth or projections arranged upon the periphery of the
wheel, as the most practical and best form in which it could
be arranged, from the fact that the wheel is always in a
position to wind the first course of thread upon the spool
immediately after the last course on the previous spool is
completed. The first machine, according to the best of my
recollection, was deficient in that it had no way of adjustment
by which I could wind spools of different lengths, but having
the same number of courses, and which I considered defective,
because in such case I would be obliged to have a different
traverse changer for every different length of spool. So I
made my traverse changer long enough for winding the
coarsest number of thread in ordinary business, and then fixed
the adjustment of the lips, so that, by spreading them apart,
I could wind as short courses as was desirable, when by setting the lips close together, I could wind courses the full
length of the traverse changer. It was also a point in my

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

study to make the machine as simple as possible, so it could
be readily operated by persons of ordinary ability The first
machine, as I mentioned, was completed and put in operation
m the summer of 1858. After getting the machine completed
and testing it to my satisfaction I went to work and made
a model myself. After that I made a set of patent drawings and drew up my own specification and made the first
application for a patent myself. In January, 1859, I exhibited my machine at a meeting of the stockholders of the
Willimantic Linen Company, in Willimantic, Connecticut, at
which time they were so well pleased with the machine that
they proposed to purchase one-half of the right, but they
ascertained that I made the application for a patent myself,
and, thinking, perhaps, that it was not as perfectly done as it
should be, employed Mr. Henry B. IRenwick to redraft the
specification. In the meantime a Mr. C. N. Spencer invented
a self-acting winding machine, for which he made application
for a patent, which the Patent Office declared interfered with
my application.
I was obliged to take testimony, which
delayed the granting of the patent, after which a- patent was
issued to me."
On a subsequent examination, being questioned with regard
to the disposition of the machine constructed by him, he said
"I made an exhibition of it in the month of January, 1859,
at a meeting of the stockholders of the Willimantic Linen
Company, and I run it the best part of a half day in their
presence. Afterwards I exhibited it to Mr. Harry B. Renwick,
who, I suppose, was employed at that time as an expert for
the Willimantic Linen Company, but after that it was laid
away and I don't know that it was ever again used."
No person accustomed to weigh the credibility of human
testimony can fail to perceive the stress under which this
evidence was given. With the most favorable construction,
the most that can be deduced from it is that the invention
was not completed until July, 1858. The witness does not say
in what part of July, although his interest strongly suggested
that part of the month which preceded the 22d. The generality of the expression -" July, 1858"- excites attention,

CLARK THREAD CO. v. WILLIMANWTIC LINEN CO. 489
Opinion of the Court.

and in this case it is not applying too strict a rule to say that
the evidence should be construed most strongly against the
complainants, and this would necessarily lead to the inference
that the invention was completed in the last part of July, subsequent to the publication of the English patent. We feel
bound to put this strict construction upon the patentee's evidence because such testimony, given for the purpose that this
was, is necessarily subject to the gravest suspicion, however
honest and well-intentioned the witness may be.
We say that Conant's testimony cannot be construed as
showing that his invention was completed before the month
of July, 1858. According to his statement it was no; until
then that he put it in visible form in the shape of a machine.
He had conceived of a machine in 1857, and made some patterns, but in the spring of 1858 he decided upon another style
of machine, which be completed during the summer -to the
best of his recollection in July, 1858. The part of his machine
called the traverse changer was the same in the first set of
drawings as it is in present use. This is the substance of the
testimony It is evident that the invention was not completed until the construction of the machine. A conception
of the mind is not an invention until represented in some physical form, and unsuccessful experiments or projects, abandoned by the inventor, are equally destitute of that character.
These propositions have been so often reiterated as to be
elementary
If the result to which we have come as to the date of
Conant's invention is correct, it really determines the controversy, without any inquiry as to the similarity of Conant's
invention to that shown in Weild's patent, for it is proved
beyond all controversy that the defendants only used Weild's
machine, and if they only used that which antedated Conant's
invention they could not be guilty of violating his rights.
The only part of Conant's testimony on which any plausible
argument can be raised to show that his invention was prior
to the 22d day of July, 1858, is that in which *he states that
the part of his machine called the traverse changer was the
same in the first set of drawings as it is in present use, but

OCTOBER TERMf, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

this is so vague and uncertain that no satisfactory inference
can be drawn from it. The traverse changer by itself was not
claimed in the patent as the invention of Conant, but it was
claimed in combination with other things, which may or may
not have been exhibited in his drawings; and traverse changers
had been in use long before Conant had thought of the subject at all. To make the matter more manifest, it may be
proper to give a brief description of the machine and the
invention which related to it.
In winding thread upon a spool it is necessary to wind it in
layers, one above, or around, the other, until the spool is filled
flush with the two ends. To do this with a continuous and unbroken thread, the first layer is commenced at one end of the
spool and carried to the other as fast as the thickness of the
thread wound in a continuous coil will admit, from thence the
next layer is wound in a reverse direction back to the end at
which the first layer commenced, and so on alternately until the
spool is filled. The thread is fed on to the spool by means of
a slender finger called a thread-guide, through and over which
the thread is brought close to the spool, and in order to wind
the alternate layers as above described, this thread-guide has
to be moved alternately backward and forward just as fast as
the thread is wound, and just as far as the length of the spool.
It receives this alternate movement by being attached to a slidebar, or traverse-rod, which is carried backward and forward by
means of a parallel shaft furnished on one-half its length with
a right-hand screw and on the other half of its length with a
left-hand screw
Two half nuts, attached by arms to the
slide-bar, are so arranged that by the action of the machine
one of them may be engaged with the right-hand screw for
a limited time, and then the other with the left-hand screw
for an equal length of time. The result is that the slide-bar
will be forced first m one direction and then in the other,
according as the right or left-hand screw is engaged with its
corresponding nut. The change of motion is effected by a
change of engagement of the nuts, so that when one nut is
withdrawn from the screw the other may be set up against it.
For a constant and uniform extent or length, of alternate

CLARK THREAD CO. v. WILLIMANTIC LINEN CO. 491
Opinion of the Court.

movement, this may be very easily effected by ordinary cam or
stop devices.

But a spool has not an invariable length from

its centre, or barrel, to its circumference.

The inner surface

of the two ends flare out a little, so that the outside layers of
thread are longer than those beneath them. This renders it
necessary that the length of the alternate movement of the

thread-guide and slide-bar should be slightly and continuously
increased, from the first or inside layer to the last or outside

layer.

The device for effecting this change of extent of lateral

movement is the thing which requires most inventive skill in

the construction of the machine.

Conant evidently supposed

that he was the first to contrive a device of this kind, which,
in his patent, he calls a pattern cam, or traverse changer.
But in this he was mistaken, spool-winders had long been in
use m England, with the right and left hand screw device for
giving the thread-guide an alternate backward and forward
movement, both in hand machines and in automatic machines
driven by power; and in two of the latter, Wibberly's, patented
in 1853, and Young's, patented in 1848, traverse changers
were used for the same purpose as in Conant's machine.
Besides the regulation of the alternate movement of the
thread-guide to correspond with the variable length of the
layers of thread on the spool, it was also necessary, or at
least desirable, that there should be some device for stopping
the machine, or the winding of the thread, when the spool
was full. This was effected in a certain way by Conant in
his machine, and had been effected in different ways by Wibberly and Young in their machines. It is unnecessary here to
go into a description of the various devices used. Enough
has been said for a general understanding of the claims made
in Conant's patent.
The court below held that the defendants had infringed the
first and third claims of the patent, and it cannot be seriously
contended that any other claims were infringed. The first
and third claims of the patent were as follows
"First. The combination, substantially in the manner hereinbefore set forth, of a traverse changer, with right and lefthand screws and with nuts which are alternately in gear with

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

such screws, the combination operating as a whole substantially in the manner and for the purpose herein described."
"Third. I claim a stop motion, substantially such as described herein, for causing the machine to come to rest when
a spool is filled, in combination with automatic apparatus,
substantially such as set forth, for regulating the length of
motion and change of'direction of a motion of a guide through
which thread is delivered on to a bobbin or spool."
These claims are for combinations. The first claim is for a
combination of a traverse changer, right and left-hand screws
and nuts alternately in gear with such screws - the combination operating substantially in the manner and for the purpose
described. This combination has three elements, and a specific
mode of operation. The third claim is for the stop motion in
combination with the apparatus described and combined in
the first claim.
From this review it is apparent how uncertain and unsatisfactory is the statement made by Conant in his testimony
that "the part of my machine called the traverse changer was
the same in the first set of drawings as it is in present use."
It fails entirely to show that, prior to the 22d of July, 1858,
he ever had or ever exhibited any drawings of the invention
described in the first or third claim of the patent. We conclude, therefore, that there is no proof on which reliance can
be placed that Conant made his alleged invention before the
publication of Weild's patent in England. After Weild's
patent was introduced into the case, showing with certainty
the date of its publication, and such date anterior to the issue
of Conant's patent, it was incumbent on the plaintiffs, in
rebuttal, to show, if not with equal certainty, yet to the satisfaction of the court, that Conant's invention preceded that
date. St. Paul Plow ltVoorks v. Starling, ante, 184, decided
at this term.
It is also clear that Conant was not a pioneer in this department of invention, and that he must be held strictly to the
terms of his patent and was entitled only to the specific form
of device described and claimed therein, and .the evidence is
very clear to the effect that the defendants never used such

ALBRIGH{T v. OYSTER.
Opinion of the Court.

device. It is unnecessary for us to enter into an examination
of the evidence on this subject. We are satisfied that the
complainants had no case on which to ground a decree, and
that the bill of complaint ought to have been dismissed.
The decree s reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to enter a decree dismissing the bill of complaint,
and taking such further _proceedings as may be m conformity with this opinion.

ALBRIGHT v. OYSTER.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF
No. 133.

STATES FOR

ISSOURI.

Argued and submitted January 6, 1891.-Decided May 25,1891.

This suit is brought to determine the legal effect of a will, and of a modifying contract in regard to it made by those interested. As "the whole question in the case is one of fact," the court has "given the evidence a very
careful examination," and, without determining the legal effect of the
will or the contract, and proceeding on the real intention of the parties,
which were fair to all interested, and have been acted upon and acquiesced in by every one concerned for a long period, and deeming it for
the interest of all concerned and of the community that litigation over
this estate should cease, it makes a decree to effect those objects.

IN EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

.MrJames H. Anderson for appellants.
.r .D P .Dyer for appellees submitted on his brief.
MRi. JusTI E L~maR delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit in equity brought by Mollie N. Albright
and William E. Oyster, by their next friend, David K. Oyster,
and David K. Oyster in his own right, citizens of Missouri,
against George Oyster, Margaret Oyster, Margaretta Oyster,
executrix of the last will and testament of Simon Oyster, de-

