DWIGHT v. MfERRITT.
Opinion of the Court.

Tested by this rule, the appellant's case must fail. As
already stated, there is nothing to show that these six bonds
are not part of the seventy unexohanged Frankfort and
ides on the
Kokomo bonds, and nothing to show any malaf
part of Smith and the appellees in obtaining possession of
Decree afflrmed.
them.
was not present at the argument, and
took no part in the decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

DWIGHT v. MERRITT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 281. Argued April 2,1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.
N

In an action against a collector to recover back an alleged excess of duties
imposed upon an importation of iron rails, the duty having been imposed
upon them as "iron bars for railroads" under Rev. Stat. ยง 2504, Schedule
E, and the importer claiming that they were subject to duty as "wrought
scrap iron" under the same schedule, the burden of proof is on the
plaintiff to satisfy the jury that they had been in actual use before exportation, and that fact must be proved in order to recover.
The dutiable classification of articles imported must be ascertained by an
examination of them, and not by their description iii the invoice.
The statutes codified in the Revised Statutes and repealed with their enactment may be referred to in order to interpret the meaning of obscure
and ambiguous phrases in the revision, but not when the meamng is
clear and free from doubt.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
21r Edwz B. Smith for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr Asswtant Atorney GeneraZ Mauy for defendant in
error.
MR.

JUSTICE Li.A

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action by an importer, the testator of the
present plaintiffs in error, against a late collector of the port

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opmion of the Court.

of lNew York, to recover an alleged excess of duty exacted
on a cargo of iron rails imported from PMllau, Russia, in June,
1880.
The collector assessed a duty on the merchandise at seventy
cents per hundred pounds, under Schedule E, sec. 2504, Rev
Stat., as "iron bars for railroads or incline planes." The
importer claimed that the merchandise was dutiable at only
$8 per ton, under the following provision of the same
schedule "Wrought scrap iron of every description eight
dollars per ton. But nothing shall be deemed scrap iron
except waste or refuse iron that has been in actual use, and is
fit only to be remanufactured."
The importer paid the duties as assessed, duly protested
against their exaction and appealed to the Secretary of the
Treasury, who affirmed the ruling of the collector. Thereupon this action was brought to recover the difference
between the duty exacted and what the importer claimed
should have been exacted, amounting to $2880.65. The case
was tried before Judge Shipman and a jury, resulting in a
verdict and judgment in favor of the collector. To review
that judgment this writ of error is prosecuted.
The bill of exceptions shows the following facts The rails
in question were completed rails and were imported from
Russia by Waterman & Co., of Philadelphia, for the purpose
of breaking them up and remanufacturing them in Waterman's mill, at Danville, Pennsylvania. They were in fact so
disposed of. The rails were not suitable for use in this
country, in the condition they were imported, being of too
high a pattern to be safe, too short, and too heavy and expensive. They were fit in this country only for remanufacture.
There was no evidence that they had ever been used for any
purpose whatever, or had ever been laid on a railroad in
Russia, although they had been sent to that country for that
purpose, and were, when imported, somewhere from three to
eight years old and rusty
The evidence of the plaintiff's witnesses showed that the
rails, as imported, were too expensive for profitable use on
American railroads, and that at the time of their importation it

DWIGHT v. IERRITT.
Opinion of the Court.

would have paid better to import a new rail of this character,
provided it could be entered under the scrap iron schedule,
and remodelled for the purpose of making railroad rails, than
to buy pig iron and manufacture the rails from that, because,
for the purpose of making new iron rails, these rails were
three processes further advanced than pig iron would be.
Those witnesses also testified that they could not say whether
or not the rails in question had ever been in actual use prior to
their importation.
'The plaintiff offered to show by a witness who was familiar
with the manufacture of iron, what the terms "scrap iron"
and "waste iron" usually meant in the trade, or in commercial usage, but the defendant objected, and the court sustained the objection, on the ground that those terms were
defined by the statute. Whereupon the plaintiff saved an
exception.
Another witness called by the plaintiff was allowed to
testify, describing the different varieties of scrap iron, the
manner in which it originated and the purposes for which it
was afterwards used.
The defendant's witnesses testified, in substance, that the
rails in question were all of the same length and weight, and
were not broken on the edges or elsewhere, but, on crossexamination, they admitted that they varied in weight somewhat, there being sixty-three pounds difference between the
heaviest and the lightest.
The court charged the jury that, under the evidence and the
law of the case, the only question was whether the iron had
been in actual use prior to its importation, for the requirements of the statute, in respect to actual use, applied as well
to waste as to refuse iron, that the burden of proof was on
the plaintiff to satisfy the jury, by a fair preponderance of the
evidence, that the rails had been in actual use, and that,
unless that fact were so proven, their verdict should be for the
defendant. Counsel for the plaintiff excepted to those portions of the charge above mentioned, and the only real question to be determined here is as to the correctness of those
instructions, for if they were correct, the evidence offered as

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

to the commercial designation of the term "scrap iron" was immaterial, and there was no error in excluding it from the jury
The provision of the statute invoked by the plaintiff is found
in Schedule E, sec. 2504, Rev Stat., and, with its punctuation,
as published in the second edition of the Revised Statutes, is
as follows "Wrought scrap iron of every description eight
dollars per ton. But nothing shall be deemed scrap iron
except waste or refuse iron that has been in actual use, and is
fit only to be remanufactured."
It is clear that the rails were dutiable either under the clause
claimed by the collector to embrace them, or under the scrapiron clause above quoted, invoked by the plaintiff in error,
since no other provision of the metal schedule appears to have,
or is claimed to have, any application to the question, and they
were confessedly not on the free list.
The plaintiff in error contends that the action of the collector was illegal in assessing as "iron bars for railroads or
inclined planes," old iron rails which, it is admitted, were not
adapted to any such use, nor imported for any such purpose,
but which were manifestly imported solely for remanufacture.
It is urged in support of this view, that as the law stood prior
to the enactment by Congress of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, as shown by the act of March 2, 1861, 12 Stat.
180, the provision corresponding to the one under discussion
was in the following words: "On all iron imported in bars
for railroads or inclined planes made to patterns andfittedto be
lazd down vpon such roads orplaneswdthout further manufacture and not exceeding six inches high, twelve dollars per
ton;" that this statute and phraseology were changed by the
act of June 80, 1864, 13 Stat. 204, by omitting the limitation
of height and substituting a rate by the pound for that of the
ton, as follows "On all iron imported in bars for railroads
and inclined planes, made to patterns andfitted to be laid down
on such r'oads or planes wzthout further manufacture, smnty
cents Per one hundred pounds, " that an additional ten cents
per one hundred pounds was imposed under the pressure of
financial necessity, by the act of March 3, 1865, 13 Stat. 493,
"on iron bars for railroads or inclined planes," and it is in-

DWIGHT v. MERRITT.
Opinion of the Court.

sisted that, as these two last-mentioned tariff acts are reproduced in this brief phrase of the Revised Statutes, no meaning
should be attached to it different from that which obtains in
those statutes. The argument is ingenious, but we cannot
agree with the conclusion to which it conduces.
The Revised Statutes are not a mere compilation and consolidation of the laws of Congress in force on the 1st of December, 1873. The object of that revision was to simplify and
bring together all statutes and parts of statutes which, from
similarity of subject, ought to be brought together, to expunge
redundant and obsolete enactments, and to make such alterations as might be necessary to reconcile contradictions and
amend imperfections in the original text of the preexisting
statutes. All those statutes were abrogated by section 5596,
which provides that "all acts of Congress passed prior to said
first day of December, one thousand eight hundred and seventythree, any portion of which is embraced in any section of said
revision, are hereby repealed, and the section applicable thereto
shall be in force in lieu thereof."
It is true that those statutes, though repealed simultaneously
with the enactment of the Revised Statutes, may be referred
to and considered, in order to interpret the meaning of obscure
and ambiguous phrases in any section of said revision, but no
such reference is necessary or proper in order to modify, under
the color of interpretation, any phrases the meaning of which
is clear and free from any doubt, except what the terms of the
statute invoked may suggest.
The title of the Revised Statutes headed "Duties Upon
Imports" is manifestly intended to be a complete system of
tariff legislation, and to embrace and provide for every class
of imported articles subject to import duties. The clause we
are now considering in the provision of Schedule E, section
2504, is in clear, explicit and intelligible language. There is
nothing in that clause, or in any other clause in that section,
or in any other section in that title, which renders the meaning of this particular phrase doubtful or leaves room for interpretation -or the interpolation of words taken from other
preceding statutes upon the subject.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opimon of the Court.

The next question is, was the merchandise, in any sense,
dutiable under the "scrap iron" schedule? In other words,
was the construction put upon that clause of the statute the
correct one 2 The exact language of the court in its instruction to the jury on this question was as follows "The statute
defines scrap iron to be waste or refuse iron that has been in
actual use and is fit only to be remanufactured. It is in proof
that this importation was fit in this country only for remanufacture. The only question is, whether the iron had been in
actual use, for the requirement that it should have been in
actual use applies as well to waste as to refuse iron."
Looking to the language of the statute, it is clear that the
grammatical construction of it authorizes the conclusion
adopted by the court, and it is immaterial, in this connection,
whether the terms "waste" and "refuse" be held to apply to
two different classes of iron, as is claimed by the plaintiffs
in error, or whether, as is most probably the case, they are
used in the statute as synonymous terms to represent old iron
generally The language of the statute is plain and unambiguous in its definition of what shall constitute "scrap iron"
under that schedule. The phrase "nothing shall be deemed
scrap iron except," etc., clearly shows that there might be
other classes or kinds of scrap iron known to the trade than
those mentioned as dutiable under that clause of the statute,
and, therefore, clearly indicates that not everything generally
known as "scrap iron" was dutiable under that clause. The
statute evidently contemplated that "scrap iron," as known to
the trade and in commercial usage, was rather a broad term,
embracing several varieties of iron, but it was only certain
kinds of it that were dutiable under that clause. We think
the construction adopted by the court a correct one, and that
any other would be strained and unauthorized.
As persuasive of this view it may be well to state that it is
the one adopted by the Treasury Department and always
acted on in administering the tariff act, and it is the interpretation placed on the act by Attorney General Devens,
January 24, 1880, 16 Opinions Attys. Gen. 445.
'Moreover, looking at the clause of the statute under which

DWIGHT v. -MERITT.
Opinon of the Court.

the duty was assessed, and taking into consideration the actual
condition of the rails when imported, we think the importer's
invoice improperly described the rails as "pieces iron rails,
rusty;" and it would seem that the classification made by the
collector was right. They were completed rails, and had
never been in actual use, although they were several years
old and somewhat rusty Their condition was that of "iron
bars for railroads or inclined planes." True, they may not
have been made after the most approved style of the article
m use on American railroads; but that does not alter their
condition at that time, which is the test as to their dutiable
classification. As was said by Mr. Tustice Blatchford, speaking for the court in Wortlington v 2obbns, decided at the
present term, 139 U. S. 337 "In order to produce uniformity
in the imposition of duties, the dutiable classification of articles
imported must be ascertained by an examination of the imported
article itself, in the condition in which it is imported." In
this case the rails were described in the invoice as "pieces iron
rails, rusty;" by the appraiser as "iron railway bars," and
in the original entry and on the withdrawal as "pieces old
iron rails." From these descriptions, which were somewhat
variant, and from the completed condition of the rails as railroad rails, there was certainly nothing in the premises to show
that they might not have been put into actual use in this
country without undergoing the process of remanufacture. All
the various questions of utility and adaptation of the merchandise imported are not supposed to enter into the decision of
the collector in determining its dutiable classification, under
the rule m Wothngton v 1obbzn.
Judgment afirmed.

