OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

MULLAN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAS.
No. 330. Argued and submitted April 21, 1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.
When the commander-m-chief of a squadron, not in the waters of the United
States, convenes a court martial to try an officer attached to the squadron,
more than half of whose members are 3uniors in rank to the accused, the
courts of the United States will assume, when his action rn this respect
is attacked collaterally, and nothing to the contrary appears on the face
of the order convening the court, that he properly exercised his discretion, and that the trial of the accused by such a court could not be
avoided without inconvenience to the service.
The President has power by and with the advice and consent of the Senate
to displace an officer in the army or navy by the appointment of another
person in his place.
Blake v. United States, 103 U. S.227, affirmed and followed.

ON the 18th of February, 1883, the United States steamer
Ashuelot - in charge of the appellant as Commander in the
United States Navy, and attached to the Asiatic squadron
under Rear Admiral Clitz- ran upon a rock and was lost,
with eleven of the crew The Navy Department received,
March 16, 1883, from the Rear Admiral a message sent by
cable from Hong-Kong, in these words "Inquiry finished,
MIullan culpable, others exonerated, court martial impossible,
directions requested." In response to this message the department, on the 19th of March, 1883, issued orders to Captains
William P WMcCann and Joseph N. Miller and Master Samuel
C. Lemly to proceed to Yokohama, Japan, and report to the
commander-in-chief of the Asiatic station. These orders were
issued to enable that officer to organize a court martial to try
Mullan for the loss of the Ashuelot.
Subsequently, April 30, 1883, Rear Admiral Pierce Crosby,
who had then assumed command of the United States squadron on the Asiatic station, ordered a general court martial to
convene on board the flag-ship Richmond, at Hong-Kong, on
the 2d of May, 1883, for the trial of Mullan. The court was

MULLAX v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

composed of the following persons, any five of whom were
empowered to act Captain William P McCann, Captain
J N. Miller, Lieutenant Commanders G. B. D. Gleddin and
E. S. Houston, Lieutenants J J Hunker, S. M. Ackley, and
B. Noyes. In the order convening the court it was stated
that "no other officers than those named can be assembled
without manifest injury to the service."
When the court convened, the appellant filed the following
protest "I object and protest against the organization of the
court as a whole, and for the following reasons In case of an
officer to be tried by a court martial, article 39 of the articles
for the government of the United States Navy provides that
in no case, where it can be avoided without injury to the service, shall more than one-half, exclusive of the president, be
junior to the officer to be tried. In time of war it might frecquently occur that officers, particularly those of the higher
grades, could not be detached from duty and ordered as members of a court without great injury to the service, but in
time of peace, when large numbers of officers are either off
duty or performing such duty as for the necessary time might
be done by a subordinate, no such emergency can possibly
arise. It cannot be claimed by any one that a sufficient number of officers senior to myself could not have been ordered
upon this court without injury to the service. I have no
desire to reflect on any individual member of this court, but
since my professional reputation, my personal character and
the prosperity and happiness of my family are at stake, I
must emphatically protest against being tried by a court, five
of whose seven members are junior to myself."
At the request of the appellant the court below found that
at the time of the organization of the court there were twelve
naval officers superior in rank to him, on waiting orders in the
city of Washington, and that Medical Inspector Stephen D.
Kennedy, of the Navy, was tried in November, 1883, on board
the Hartford, at Panama, by a court composed of two commodores, two captains, one medical director, one medical inspector and one commander, all of those officers being detailed
for that special duty, and directed to proceed from New York
voL. cxL-16

24:2

OCTOBER TER.M, 1890.
Counsel for Parties.

to Panama, because deemed necessary by the Navy Department in view of the fact, of which it was informed by Rear
Admiral Hughes, that there were not in the squadron under
his command the requisite number of officers of sufficient rank
to organize a court martial for the trial of Medical Inspector
Kennedy
The charges against appellant, for the trial of which the
court at Hong-Kong was convened, were drunkenness on
duty, improperly hazarding the vessel under his command, in
consequence of which it was run upon a rock and lost, and
neglect of duty Being found guilty, he was sentenced to dismissal from the service. The sentence was approved and confirmed by the President on the 6th of July, 1883.
In December, 1883, the President nominated to the Senate
Lieutenant Commander Francis M. Green to be a commander in the Navy, from the 7th of July, 1883, vce Commanders T. El. Eastman, retired, and Horace E. A[ullan, disThe Senate, January 18, 1884, advised and conmissed."
sented to this appointment of Green, from the latter date,
"cwe Commanders T. H1. Eastman, retired, and Horace E.
Mullan, dismissed," and on the 23d of January, 1881, the
President commissioned him to be a commander in the Navy
from the 7th of July, 1883.
The present action was brought by Mullan on the 3d of
June, 1885, to recover pay as commander in the Navy since
the 6th of July, 1883. It proceeds upon the ground that this
action of the court martial .was illegal and void, and that, notwithstanding its sentence of dismissal, he was at the time of
bringing this action, and had been since the 6th of July, 1883,
a commander in the INavy, legally entitled to the compensation provided by law
The Court of Claims found the above facts, and, holding as
a conclusion of law that appellant was not entitled to recover,
dismissed his petition. 23 C. C1. 3.
.r

John Goode and .Mr .Rj'pa Hunton,for appellant.

Mr Assi seant Attorney General Mfury for appellee.

MULLAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Mm. JUSTIg. HAlLA T

delivered the opinion of the court.

The principal contention of the appellant is, that the court
martial convened under the order of lRear Admiral Crosby
was an illegal body, without jurisdiction to try him.

This

contention is based upon the fact that of the seven members
of the court participating in the trial, five were his juniors in
rank. Our attention has been called to the clause of the 5th
section of the army appropriation act of July 13, 1866, 14
Stat. 92, c. 176, preserved in ยง 1229 of the Revised Statutes
providing that "no officer in the military or naval service
shall, m time of peace, be dismissed from service, except upon
and in pursuance of the sentence of a court martial to that
effect or in commutation thereof." And article 36, for the
government of the Navy, iRev Stat. ยง 1621, reads "No officer
shall be dismissed from the naval service except by the order
of the President or by sentence of a general court martial,
and in time of peace no officer shall be dismissed except in
pursuance of the sentence of a general court martial or in mitigation thereof." Article 39 of section 1624 of the Revised
Statutes provides "A general court martial shall consist of
not more than thirteen nor less than five commissioned officers
as members, and as many officers, not exceeding thirteen, as
can be convened without injury to the service, shall be summoned on every such court. But in no case where it can be
avoided without injury to the service, shall more than onehalf, exclusive of the President, be junior to the officer to be
tried. The senior officer shall always preside, and the others
shall take place according to their rank."
These provisions are cited by the appellant in support of
his contention that the court martial at Hong-Kong was an
illegal tribunal. He insists that it appears from the record
before us that a court consisting of not less than five commissioned officers -more than one-half of them, exclusive of
the President, being his seniors in rank- could have been convened without injury to the service, and therefore the court
which tried him was unauthorized by the statute. This is supposed to be established by the fact that, at the time of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

organization of the court at HTong-Kong, there were twelve
naval officers, superior in rank to the appellant, on waiting
orders in the city of Washington. But this does not show
that any of those officers could at that time have been sent
from the national capital to the Asiatic station "without
injury to the service." The public interests may have required
them to be held at Washington for assignment to other duty
than service upon the court martial to be convened for the
trial of the appellant. Of that the Navy Department was
necessarily the judge, and its discretion could not be controlled
nor its action reviewed by the courts. The presence of those
officers in Washington, on waiting orders, at the time the
court martial at Hong-Kong was ordered, must be conclusively
presumed to have been required by the Navy Department,
and, therefore, by the exigencies of the naval service. Some
stress is laid upon the circumstance, stated in the findings of
the court below, that certain officers were detailed by the
Navy Department, in November, 1883, to proceed from New
York to Panama for service upon a court martial, ordered for
the trial of a medical inspector; such detail being deemed
necessary by reason of the fact that in the squadron to which
the inspector was attached there were not "the requisite
number of officers of sufficient rank to organize a court martial" to try him. But that only tends to show that a court
martial, a majority of whose members, exclusive of the President, were senior in rank to the inspector could, at that time,
be convened "without injury to the service." It does not
show what were the requirements of the service at the time
the court martial was ordered to be held at Hlong-Kong in
M ay, 1883, for the trial of the appellant. It results that there
is no ground for the contention that the record shows that the
organzation of a court, with more than one-half of its members junior in rank to appellant, could have been avoided
without injury to the service.
The statute permits an officer of the navy to be tried by
a court-martial, more than one-half of whose members are
his juniors in rank, if it cannot be avoided without injury to
the service. Rear Admiral Crosby, being commander-in-chief

MULLAN v. UNUTED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

of a squadron not operating or stationed "in the waters of
the United States," had the power, without express authority from the President, to convene a general court martial
for the trial of the appellant. Rev Stat. ยง 1624, Art. 38.
That is not disputed. 'Whether the interests of the service
admitted of a postponement of his trial until a court could
be organized of .which at least one-half of its members,
exclusive of the President, would be his seniors in rank, or
whether the interests of the service required a prompt trial,
upon the charges preferred, by such officers as could be then
assigned to that duty by the commander-in-chief of the squadron, were matters committed by the statute to the determination of that officer. And the courts must assume -nothing
to the contrary appearing upon the face of the order convening the court -that the discretion conferred upon him was
properly exercised, and, therefore, that the trial of the appellant by a court, the majority of whom were his juniors in rank,
could not be avoided " without injury to the service." "Whenever," this court said in .artin v .Mott, 12 Wheat. 19, 31, "a
statute gives a discretionary power to any person, to be exercised by him upon his own opinion of certain facts, it is a
sound rule of construction, that the statute constitutes him
the sole and exclusive judge of the existence of those facts."
The result of these views is that the sentence of the court
martial, and its approval by the President, cannot be regarded
as void.
But, independently of the question as to the legal character
of the court martial, there is another ground upon which the
affirmance of the judgment of the Court of Claims can rest.
In Blake v United States, 103 U. S. 227, 235, it was held,
upon full consideration, that the fifth section of the army
appropriation act of July 13, 1866, c. 176, 14 Stat. 92, above
quoted, meant, "that whereas, under the act of July 17, 1862,
as well as before its passage, the President alone was authorized to dismiss an army or naval officer from the service for
any cause which, in his judgment, either rendered such officer
unsuitable for, or whose dismissal would promote, the public
service, he alone shall not, thereafter, in time of peace, exercise

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

such power of dismissal, except in pursuance of a court martial
sentence to that effect or in commutation thereof." Again, in
the same case "Our conclusion is that there was no purpose,
by the fifth section of the act of July 13, 1866, to withdraw
from the President the power, with the advice and consent of
the Senate, to supersede an officer in the military or naval
service by the appointment of some one in his place. If the
power of the President -and Senate, in this regard, could be
constitutionally subjected to restrictions by statute, (as to
which we express no opinion,) it is sufficient for the present
case to say that Congress did not intend by that section to
impose them. It is, in substance and effect, nothing more
than a declaration that the power theretofore exercised by
the President, without the concurrence of the Senate, of summarily dismissing or discharging officers of the Army or Navy,
whenever in his judgment the interest of the service required
it to be done, shall not exist, or be exercised, -in ftme of peace,
except in pursuance of the sentence of a court martial, or in
commutation thereof. There was, as we think, no intention
to deny or restrict the power of the President, by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate, to displace them by the
appointment of others in their places."
These principles were affirmed in the subsequent case of
.Yeyes v Vqted States, 109 U. S. 336, 339.
In view of these adjudications, the judgment below may be
sustained without reference to the inquiry whether the court
martial that tried Mullan was legally constituted, or whether
he ceased to be an officer of the Navy in consequence of the
.approval of the sentence by the President. The fact appears
that Francis IMi. Green, under the appointment of the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, was
commissioned commander in place of Eastman retired, and
Mullan dismissed. The circumstance that ireen was appointed in place of one commander retired, and another dismissed, is explained by the naval appropriation act of August
5, 1882, c. 391, 22 Stat. 28-, 286, requiring a reduction of the
number of officers in certain grades of the Navy, including the
grade of commander. Green was appointed by the President,

WOODWARD v. JEWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

by and with the advcme and consent of the Senate, and was
commissioned, in place of Mullan. This, under the above
decisions, to which we adhere, put Mullan out of the Navy,
even if the proceedings of the court martial had been void.
Judgment affirmed.

WOODWARD v. JEWELL.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 310. Argued April 15, 1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

The amount involved in this case, when interest is properly computed, is
sufficient to give the court jurisdiction.
A contract by a mortgagee, made on receiving the mortgage, that he will
hold the securities, and that the mortgagor may "sell the property named
in said deeds and make titles thereto, the proceeds of the sale to go to
the credit of" the mortgagee, gives to the mortgagor power to sell for
cash, free from the mortgage, but not to exchange for other lands; and
does not cast upon the purchaser for cash the duty of seeing that the
mortgagor appropriates the proceeds according to the agreement.
Such a contract is not a power of attorney to the mortgagor to sell land of
which the title is in the mortgagee, but only the consent of a lien holder
to the release of his lien in case a sale is made, and it is not required by
the laws of Georgia to be executed before two witnesses.
The conveyance to the mortgagee in this case was a mortgage and not a
deed conveying the legal title.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
._r

Wralter B. Bill for appellants.

-Mrk Clifford Anderson for appellees.
Mm.

JUSTICE,

BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

On April 10, 1884, appellants filed their bill in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Georgia, praying for the foreclosure of a mortgage. The
mortgagor and debtor was Daniel A. Jewell. The other
defendants were alleged to have interests in the mortgaged

