OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

suits must also be reversed, and such further proceedings be
had in them as shall not be inconsistent with the opinon of
this court in No. 1218, so that these five suits may proceed parz
passu with No. 1218, and the United States be entitled to have
the full benefit of the act of 1889 in all the suits.
As to the ground of demurrer stated in No. 1446, that the
heirs of Alexander Rogers, deceased, are shown by the bill to
be proper and necessary parties, the deed from the Eastern
Oregon Land Company is to the defendant Matilda 0. Rogers,
"admirnstratrix, in trust for tue estate of Alex. Rogers, deceased," and the conveyance is "to her, her heirs and assigns
forever." The bill does not state that Alexander Rogers left
any heirs. It only misstates the contents of the deed, a copy
of which is annexed to the bill, by stating that the conveyance
was to "Matilda C. Rogers, administratrix of the estate of
Alexander Rogers, in trust for said estate and the heirs of said
deceased," which is an incorrect statement of the deed.
To prevent any misapprehension, we state that
We do not intend to determi&ne any questton as to the controversy
between the United States and the claimants of the lands, but
reverse the cases that their merits may be -nvestigated. Decrees of this courtwill be entered in accordancewt theforegoing directions.
.Reversed.

MARTIN v. BARBOUR.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 369. Submitted May 1, 1891. -Decided

May 25, 1891.

In a proceeding instituted under the statute of Arkansas to confirm a tax
title to a lot of land, the person who owned the lot when it was sold for
taxes may set up in defence defects and irregularities in the proceedings
for the sale.
A lot was sold to the State in 1885, for the taxes of 1884, and, after the two
years allowed for redemption had expired, it was certified to the commissioner of state lands, and purchased from him by a person who brought
the proceeding to confirm the title. The widowed mother of certain

IARTIN v. BARBOUR.
Opinion of the Court.
minors had bought the lot in 1883, in trust for the minors, and had put
money into the hands of an agent to pay the taxes of 1884, but he failed
to pay them. The lot -was listed for the taxes of 1885 and 1886, and
they were paid, as if the lot had not been sold. No suit to show irregularities in the sale was brought within two years from its date: Held,
(1) The irregularities were not cut off, because the prior owners of the
lot were deprived of a substantial right,
(2) The oath prescribed by statute was not taken by the assessor, or
endorsed on the assessment books;
(3) There was no record proof of the publication of the notice of the
sale for taxes;
(4) The right to redeem was prevented from being exercised within the
two years by dereliction of duty on the part of officers of the State;
(5) The purchaser from the State took his deed subject to the equities
and defendes which existed against the State;
(6) The minors had a right to a decree dismissing the petition to confirm the tax sale, subject to a lien on the lot for the amount of
the-purchase money on the purchase from the State.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr U .3
.r

Rose and -/f'

G B. Rose for appellant.

Luther H. Pike for appellees.

hR. JUSTICE BLATOHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a proceeding involving the question of the validity
of a sale for taxes of lot 5 in block 140, situated in the United
States reservation of the Hot Springs, in Garland County,
Arkansas. It was commenced by a petition filed July 22,
1887, in the Circuit Court of that county, by R. W Martin, to
confirm hls tax title to the lot in question. The petition was
brought under certain sections forming part of chapter 23,
headed "Confirmation of Titles," of Mansfield's Digest of the
Statutes of Arkansas, of 1884, the sections being numbered from
576 to 583, both inclusive, and being set forth in the margin.'
1 Section 576. The purchasers, or the heirs and legal representatives of
purchasers, of lands at sheriff's sales, those made by the county clerks or
by the State land commissioner of this State, in pursuance of any of the
laws thereof, or those made by the order, decree or authority of any court
of record, may protect themselves from eviction of the lands so purchased,
or from any responsibilities as possessors of the same, by pursuing the
rules hereinafter prescribed.
Section 577. The purchasers or the heirs and legal representatives of

OCTOBER TERAM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The petition states that the lot in question, being a town
lot in the city of Hot Springs, in the county of Garland, was
purchasers, at all sales which have been, or may hereafter be, made may,
wheu such lands are not made redeemable by any of the laws of this State
applicable to such sales, or, if redeemable, may, at any time after the exptration of the time allowed for such redemption, publish six weeks in succession, in some newspaper pubfished in this State, a notice calling on all
persons who can set up any right to the lands so purchased, in consequence
of any informality or any irregularity or illegality connected with such
sale, to show cause, atthe first circuit court which may be held for the county
iu which such lands are situated six months after the publication of said
notice, why the sale so made should not be confirmed, which notice shall
state the authority under which the sale took place, and also contain the
same description of the lands purchased as that given in the conveyance to
the buyer, and shall further declare the price at which the land was bought
and the nature of the title by which it is held.
Section 578. The affidavit of one or more of the publishers or proprietors
of said newspaper, setting forth a copy of such notice, with the date of the
first publication thereof and number of insertions, sworn to and subscribed
before some justice of the peace of the county or city in which said newspaper is published, with a certificate of magistracy from the clerk of the
court of said county, under the seal of his office, on being produced to said
court, shall be taken and considered as sufficient evidence of the fact of
publication, the date and number of insertions, and form of such notice.
Section 579. On producing the proof of said notice, as required in the
preceding section, the party publishing the same may apply to the judge of
the court aforesaid to confirm said sale; and it shall be the duty of the
judge, in case no cause is shown against the prayer of said purchaser, to
confirm the sale in question. Provided, always, That before he does so confirm it he shall be fully satisfied that said notice is in due form, that it has
been regularly published, that the land has been correctly described and the
price at which it was purchased truly stated in conformity to the provisions
of this act; but in case opposition be made, and it shall appear that the
sale has been made contrary to law, it shall be the duty of the judge to
annul it.
Section 580. A sheriff's or auditor's deed, given in the usual form, without witnesses, shall be taken and considered by said court as sufficient
evidence of the authority under which said sale was made, the description
of the land and the price at which it was purchased.
Section 581. The judgment or decree of the court confirming said sale
shall operate as a complete bar against any and all persons who may hereafter claim said lands in consequence of informality or illegality in the proceedings; and the title to said land shall be considered as confirmed and
complete in the purchaser thereof, his heirs and assigns forever, saving,
however, to infants, persons of unsound mind, imprisoned beyond seas or

MARTIN v. BARBOUR.
Opinion of the Court.

delinquent for the non-payment of the taxes of the year 18841,
that the lot was duly offered for sale by the collector of the
county, and was struck off to the State of Arkansas, that the
time for the redemption of the lot having expired, it was duly
certified to the commissioner of State lands by the county
clerk of Garland County, as required by law, that the peti4tioner applied to the said commissioner to purchase the lot,
and, upon the payment to the commissioner of $110.95, received
from him, on the 16th of June, 1887, a deed, No. 8867, covering the lot, and that the petitioner paid for the deed the sum
of $1, and was the owner of the lot by virtue of such conveyance, and had given the notice required by law, and was
entitled to a decree confirming his title. He therefore prayed
that his title to the lot be confirmed.
On the 31st of August, 1887, Frances M . Barbour and her
three infant children, all under the age of fourteen years, by
their next friend, Ormand Barbour, served a notice upon the
commissioner of state lands for the State of Arkansas, that
the lot in question was the property of the three minors, held
in trust for them, at the time of the supposed forfeiture, by
their mother, said Frances M. Barbour, who was now the wife
of said Ormand Barbour. The notice stated that the minors
and the mother applied to be permitted to redeem the lot, by
paying the taxes, penalty and costs, and interest, charges and
fees, for which they tendered the money To this notice the
commissioner replied, on the 3d of September, 1881. that the
land had been sold by the State, and they could not redeem
from the State, but must redeem from Martin, and through the
courts, if necessary
On the 10th of September, 1887, the three minors and their
out of the jurisdiction of the United States, the right to appear and contest
the title to said land within one year after their disabilities may be removed.
Section 582. When no opposition is made to the confirmation of such
sale, the costs attending the proceedings shall be paid by the party praying
such confirmation, and where opposition is made the costs shall be borne
by the party against whom judgment is rendered.
Section 583. In case any such purchaser shall not deem it necessary to
use the remedy conferred by this act to confirm the title thereto, then the
said sale shall have the effect given to it by law.

OCTOBER TERMV,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

mother filed their answer and cross-bill to the petition of
Mvartin, setting up that the minors were the children and the
only heirs of Franklin J. Munger, deceased, who died in
December, 1881, that the deed of June 16, 1887, and all the
proceedings on which it was granted, were void as to them, by
reason of the coverture of the mother and the infancy of the
three children, and that they were entitled to redeem the lot
under the tender they had made. The answer and cross-bill
then set forth that the lot in question was patented by the
United States in 1882 to certain parties, that the title became
vested in one Laley, who, in September, 1883, conveyed it, by
a deed of general warranty, to the mother of the minors, who
entered with them into possession under such deed, for a consideration of $11,500, of which $5000 were paid in lawful
money and the balance secured by bond and mortgage, a firstclass boarding-house having been erected on the lot, that at
the date of such deed the mother of the minors was the widow
of said Munger, that the proceeds of a policy of insurance on
the life of said Munger, being $5000, were paid to the mother
of the minors in trust for them, and were paid by her to said
Laley for said lot and boarding-house and the furniture thereof,
that she kept the boarding-house for a while, and thenrented it
out, applying the rents to support herself and the minors, who
had resided with her continuously since she purchased the premises, and were dependent entirely upon her for their maintenance and education, with the voluntary assistance of her
husband, that, on renting the house and removing from Hot
Springs, .they employed one Wiggs, a real estate agent, who
subsequently absconded from the State, to collect the rents of
the house and pay the taxes, but he failed to apply the rents to
pay the taxes on the land for the year 1884, although he paid
the taxes for that year on the personalty, that Wiggs, who
was then county judge of the county, caused the clerk of the
county court of the county to have the lot listed for taxes for
the years 1885 and 1886, and they were collected, as if the lot
had not been sold to the State for the year 1884, that the
plaintiffs m the cross-bill were thereby kept in ignorance of
the non-payment of the taxes for the year 1884, that at that

MARTIN v. BARBOUR.
Opinion of the Court.

time the mother of the minors was the wife of Barbour, having
been such prior to the attempted return of the lot as delinquent, and prior to the attempted advertisement and sale of
the same for taxes for the year 1884, and at the date of the
execution of the deed to Martin by the commissioner of state
lands on June 16, 1887, and was still under such coverture,
and that she purchased and held the lot as the trustee of the
minors.
The cross-bill then avers, that the deed of the lot to Martin
conveyed no title to him, in consequence of certain specified
defects and irregularities in the proceedings under which the
conveyance was attempted to be made, nine of them being
specified. The cross-bill further avers that the plaintiffs in it,
in June, 1887, immediately after the deed to Martin was made
known to him, tendered to him, through their agent at Hot
Springs, $111.95, the amount of the taxes, penalty, costs and
interest, but the tender was refused by Martin, and they bring
into court $125, and tender the same in redemption of the lot,
to be paid as the court may direct, and pray that they be
decreed to have the right to redeem the lot on payment of
such sum as may be lawfully due. On the ground of their
disabilities, before stated, and the frauds alleged in the crossbill, they pray that, upon payment by them of all dues and
expenses incurred in respect to the sale and deed to Martin,
said deed be declared void and be delivered up to be cancelled,
and that their title in the lot be quieted.
Subsequently, and in October, 1887, the plaintiffs in the
cross-bill, as citizens of Illinois, Martin being a citizen of
Arkansas, removed the suit into the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas. A replication was filed to the answer. An amendment was then filed
to the answer and cross-bill, and an amendment also to the
petition of Martin, waiving an answer under oath. Martin
then put in an answer to the cross-bill, and subsequently the
plaintiffs in the cross-bill filed an amendment waiving an
answer to it under oath. Proofs were taken, and the case
was heard bythe court, held by Judge Caldwell, then District
Judge, whose opinion is reported in 34: Fed. IRep. 701. On

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the 9th of April, 1888, the court entered a decree dismissing
the petition of Martin for want of equity, and decreeing that
he have a lien upon the lot in question for $110.95, with
interest at six per cent per annum from June 16, 1887, and
that, unless that sum should be paid within twenty days, the
lot should be sold to raise the money to pay that sum. Martin
was charged .with the costs of the suit, and took an appeal to
this court. On the 11th of April, 1888, the appellees paid into
court $117.57, the amount of the redemption money with
poundage, and the amount, less the poundage, was ordered to
remain in the registry and to be paid on demand to Martin.
The lot in question was sold to the State on the 25th of
May, 1885, for the taxes of 1884, and at the expiration of two
years, the period allowed by law for redemption, by section
5772, it was certified to the commissioner of state lands, and
immediately thereafter was purchased by Martin from that
officer. The substantial facts set up in the cross-bill are proved
by the evidence.
The appellant relies upon section 5782 of Mansfield's Digest,
of 1884, which is section 146 of the act of March 31, 1883,
(Laws of 1883, p. 273,) and reads as follows: "Section 5782.
In all controversies and suits involving title to real property
claimed and held under and by virtue of a deed executed
substantially as aforesaid by the clerk of the county court,
the party claiming title adverse to that conveyed by such
deed shall be required to prove, in order to defeat the said
title, either that the said real property was not subject to
taxation for the year (or years) named in the deed, or that
the taxes had been paid before the sale, that the property
had been redeemed from the sale according to the provisions
of this act, and that such redemption was had or made for
the use and benefit of persons having the right of redemption,
under the laws of this State, or that there had been an entire
omission to list or assess the property, or to levy the taxes, or
to give notice of the sale, or to sell the property But no
person shall be permitted to question the title acquired by a
deed of the clerk of the county court, without first showing
that he, or the person under whom he claims title to the

MARTLY v. BARBOUR.
Opinion of the Court.

property, had title thereto at the time of the sale, or that title
was obtained from the United States or this State after the
sale, and that all taxes due upon the property have been paid
by such person, or the person under whom he claims title as
aforesaid Provzded, That in any case where a person had
paid his taxes, and, through mistake (or otherwise) by the
collector, the land upon which the taxes were paid was afterward sold, the deed of the clerk of the county court shall not
convey the title. Prowdedfurther, That in all cases where
the owner of lands sold for taxes shall resist the validity of
such tax title, such owner may prove fraud committed by the
officer selling said lands or in the purchaser, to defeat the
same, and, if fraud is so" established, such sale and title shall
be void." But that section relates exclusively to deeds made
"by the clerk of the county court," and does not embrace
deeds made by the commissioner of state lands.
The appellant also relies upon section 4246 of Mansfield's
Digest, of 1884, which reads as follows "All deeds issued by
shall be under his
said commissioner (of state lands)
hand and official seal, and shall convey to the purchaser, his
heirs and assigns, all the right, title and interest of the State
to said lands and town lots, and such deeds shall be received
as evidence in any court in the State."

But, in Scott v Hills,

49 Arkansas, 266, it was held that the effect of that section was
to make the deedprimafacm evidence of title in the purchaser,
and to relieve the grantee and those holding under him from
making proof, until evidence was introduced showing or tending to show that the deed conveyed no title. The deed does
not prevent the plaintiffs in the present cross-bill from showing that they have been deprived of substantial rights by
reason of the failure of the officers of the State to observe
requirements of the law in respect to listing or assessing the
property for taxation, or selling it as delinquent, or in respect
to the redemption of it after its sale. In the present case, the
plaintiffs in the cross-bill proved such failure to the satisfaction
of the Circuit Court.
By section 577 of Mansfield's Digest, of 1884, before referred
to, the purchaser is required to publish a notice "calling on
voL. CxL-41

OCTOBER TERS, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

all persons who can set up any right to the lands so purchased,
in consequence of any informality or any irregularity or illegality connected with such sale," to show cause why the sale
should not be confirmed.
By section 579, it is provided, that, "in case opposition be
made, and it shall appear that the sale has been made contrary
to law, it shall be the duty of the judge to annul it."
By section 581, it is provided, that the judgment of the
court confirming the sale shall operate as a complete bar
against any and all persons who may "claim said land m
consequence of informality or illegality in the proceedings,
and the title to said land shall be considered as confirmed and
complete in the purchaser thereof, his heirs and assigns forever, saving, however, to infants, persons of unsound mind,
imprisoned beyond seas or out of the jurisdiction of the
United States, the right to appear and contest the title to
said land within one year after their disabilities may be
removed."
Section 5791 of Mansfield's Digest, of 1884, reads as follows: "All actions to test the validity of any proceeding in
the appraisement, assessment or levying of taxes upon any
land or lot, or part thereof, and all proceedings whereby is
sought to be shown any irregularity of any officer, or defect
or neglect thereof, having any duty to perform, under the
provisions of this act, in the assessment, appraisement, levying
of taxes or in the sale of lands or lots delinquent for taxes,
or proceedings whereby it is sought to avoid any sale under
the provisions of this act, or [for] irregularity or neglect of
any kind by any officer having any duty or thing to perform
under the provisions of this act, shall be commenced within
two years from the date of sale, and not afterward." The
provisions of this section, as section 138 of the act of April 8,
1869, were considered by the Supreme Court of Arkansas in
]?ac~lcffe v Scruggs, 46 Arkansas, 96, 107, where it was said
that the statute did not operate to deprive the former owner of
any "meritorious defence," meaning thereby "any act or
omission of the revenue officers in violation of law and prejudicial to his rights and interests, as well as those jurisdic-

MARTIN v. BARBOUR.
Opinion of the Court.

tional and fundamental defects which affect the power to levy
the tax, or to sell for its non-payment." The court further
said. "We have no doubt of the power of the legislature to
cure any irregularity or illegality in a tax sale, which consists
in a mere failure to observe some requirement imposed, not
by the constitution, but by the legislature itself, and the nonobservance of which does not deprive the former owner of
All technical objections to the
any substantial right.
sale, not actually prejudicial to the former owner, must be'
brought forward within two years, under penalty of not being
afterwards regarded when the tax title is assailed."
In the present case, it is contended by the appellant that
the irregularities alleged by the appellees were cut off under
section 5791, because they commenced no suit within two
years from the date of the sale. But those irregularities
deprived the appellees of a substantial right, and were not
technical objections to the sale, and were actually prejudicial
to the appellees.
It was proved that the sale was made contrary to law,
because no valid assessment for the year 1884 was made, in
that the assessor did not take and subscribe the oath or affirmation prescribed by section 5661 of Mansfield's Digest, of
1884, which provides as follows "Every assessor shall, on or
before the first day of Tanuary succeeding his election, and
before entering upon or discharging any of the duties of his
office, take and subscribe to the oath prescribed in section
twenty, article nineteen, of the constitution of Arkansas, and,
in addition thereto, the following oath or affirmation, which
oath shall be endorsed upon the assessment books prior to.
, assessor for
their delivery to the assessor 'I,
county, do solemnly swear that the value of all real and personal property, moneys, credits, investments in bonds, stocks,
joint stock companies, of which statements may be made to
me by persons required by law, will be appraised at its actual
cash value; that in no case will I, knowingly, omit to demand
of any person or corporation, of whom by law I may be required to make such demand, a statement of the description
and value of personal property, or the amount of moneys and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

credits, investments m bonds, stock, joint stock companies or
otherwise, which he may be required to list, or in any way
connive at any violation or evasion of any of the requirements
of the law or laws in relation to the listing or valuation of
property, credits, investments in bonds, stocks, joint stock
companies or othqrwise, of any kind, for taxation.'"
It was also shown that such oath was not endorsed upon
the assessment books for the year 1884, prior to their delivery
to the assessor, as provided by section 5661.
It is also provided by section 5662 as follows "If any per
son so elected fails or refuses to take the oath required in
the preceding section, and file the same with the clerk of the
county court of his county, within the time prescribed, the
office shall be declared vacant, and the clerk of the county
court shall immediately notify the governor, and such vacancy
shall be filled in accordance with the constitution and laws of
the State." See Parker v. Overman, 18 How 137, -Moore v.
Turner, 43 Arkansas, 243.
Where the statute provides for the publication of a notice
of sale for taxes, and prescribes the terms of such publication,
it must be strictly pursued. Cooley on Taxation, 2d ed. p. 484.
In the present case,.there was a failure to prove the publication required by the statute. An attempt was made to do so
by means of exparte affidavits, presented more than two years
after the sale was made. But the statute required record
proof, and nothing could be substituted for that, nor could a
failure to give it be excused.
By section 5763 of Mansfield's Digest, the form is prescribed
of the notice which is to be attached to the list of delinquent
lands, which, by section 5762, is required to be published in a
newspaper, and section 5763 goes on to provide as follows
"The clerk of the county court shall record said (delinquent)
list and notice (of publication attached to it) in a book, to be
by him kept for the purpose, and shall certify at the foot of
said record, stating in what newspaper said list was published,
and the date of publication, and for what length of time the
same was published before the second Monday in April then
next ensuing, and such record, so certified, shall be evidence

MARTIN v. BARBOUR.
Opinion of the Court.

of the facts in said list and certificate contained." In the
present case, no such record was made. The provision is a
peremptory one, and it cannot be dispensed with, without
invalidating the proceeding.
By section 5705, the clerk of the county court was required,
on or before the first Monday in November in each year, to
make out and deliver the tax books of the county to the collector, with his warrant thereunto attached, under his hand
and the seal of his office, authorizing the collector to collect
the taxes.
By section 5731, the collector was required to give notice,
by the posting of printed notices, of his attendance at certain
places to receive the taxes, and to attend by himself or his
deputy for that purpose at the tune and place named in the
notice, and thereafter to attend at his office at the county seat,
until the 10th of February of each year, to receive taxes from
persons wishing to pay them.
By section 5760, the collector was required, by the first
Monday of March in each year, to file with the clerk of the
county court a list or lists of all such taxes, levied on real
estate as he had been unable to collect, therein describing the
land or town or city lots on which the delinquent taxes were
charged, as the same were described on the tax-book, and to
attach thereto his affidavit to the correctness of the list, and
he was required also to scrutinize the list and compare it with
the tax-book and record of tax receipts, and strike from the
list any land or lot upon which the taxes had been paid, or
which did not appear to have been entered on the tax-book,
or which should appear from the tax-book to be exempt from
taxation.
By section 5762, he was required to cause the list of the
delinquent lands in his county, as corrected by him, to'be published weekly for two weeks between the first Monday in
March and the second Monday in April in each year, in a
newspaper.
Then followed the provision before stated of section 5763.
The sale in the present case was made May 25, 1885.
By section 5769, the clerk of the county court was required

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

to attend the sale and to make a record of it in a substantial
book, and to record in a separate book, to be kept for that
purpose, each tract of land or lot sold to the State, together
with the taxes, penalty and cost due thereon, and by section
5771, he was required immediately after the sale to transfer
upon the tax-books all lands sold for taxes to the name of the
purchaser.
It is quite clear that the clerk did not comply with these
requirements, especially with those of sections 5763 and 5769.
Because he so failed in his duty-in respect to the tax-sale of
1884, the assessor returned the lot in question on the assessment for 1885 as subject to taxation, instead of returning it
as exempt from taxation by reason of its having been struck
off to the State at the tax-sale for the delinquent tax of 1884,
which would have prevented the county clerk from placing
the lot on the tax-books for 1885, which he was required by
section 5705 to make out and deliver to the collector on or
before the first Monday of November, 1885. If the requirements of the law had been followed, the plaintiffs in the crossbill, when attending by their agent to pay the taxes for 1885,
would have been informed that there were no taxes for them
to pay, because the lot stood in the name of the State. In
such case, it being shown that they intended to pay the tax
for 1884 and made full provision for that purpose, it is manifest they could and would have redeemed the lot.
To permit the sale to the appellant to be confirmed would
be to assist the State to take advantage of its own wrong.
The right to redeem is a substantial right, and was prevented
from being exercised within the statutory period of two years
by the dereliction of duty on the part of the officers of the
State. The sale was made contrary to law, and it was the
duty of the Circuit Court, under the statute, to annul it, in
order to allow the redemption to take place. No more manifest case for the interposition of a court of equity can be
imagined. The State is bound by the acts of her officers in
placing the lot on the tax-books for the years 1885 and 1886,
and receiving from the appellees the taxes for those years.
Equity will treat the transaction as a waiver of the prior sup-

CHICAGO DISTILLING CO. v. STONE.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

posed forfeiture, and will regard the tax paid for 1885 and
1886 as so much paid toward redemption, and will permit the
payment of the rest. The appellant took his deed for the land
in the same condition in which the State held it, and subject
to the same equities and defences. The State having created
its bureau of taxes, is bound to see to it that its officers impart
correct information to parties dealing with it and do not mislead them.
The mother of the minors had the right to acknowledge, as
she did, her trusteeship for them. The minors are the real
parties in interest in the case, and they have appeared and
contested the title to the lot, within the right reserved to them
by section 581. They are entitled to the relief given to them
by the Circuit Court, although section 5772 does not give the
right to redeem to married women, for it gives that right to
minors within two years after the expiration of their disability
The case is so thoroughly discussed, and the rights of the
appellees to relief so fully vindicated, in the opinion of the
Circuit Court, that we do not deem it necessary to add anything further.
.Deceeafirmed.
CHICAGO DISTILLING COMPANY v. STONE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 330. Argued and submitted January 6, 1891.-Decided

May 25, 1891.

The provision in Rev. Stat. ยง 3309, that if the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, on making a monthly examination of a distiller's return, "finds
that the distiller has used any grain or molasses in excess of the capacity
of his distillery as estimated according to law, he shall make an assessment against the distiller," etc., refers to the real average spirit-producing
capacity of the distillery and not to a fictitious capacity for any particular day or days.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
A1r Joseph Kirkland for plaintiff in error, submitted on his
brief.

