WOODWARD v. JEWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

by and with the advcme and consent of the Senate, and was
commissioned, in place of Mullan. This, under the above
decisions, to which we adhere, put Mullan out of the Navy,
even if the proceedings of the court martial had been void.
Judgment affirmed.

WOODWARD v. JEWELL.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 310. Argued April 15, 1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

The amount involved in this case, when interest is properly computed, is
sufficient to give the court jurisdiction.
A contract by a mortgagee, made on receiving the mortgage, that he will
hold the securities, and that the mortgagor may "sell the property named
in said deeds and make titles thereto, the proceeds of the sale to go to
the credit of" the mortgagee, gives to the mortgagor power to sell for
cash, free from the mortgage, but not to exchange for other lands; and
does not cast upon the purchaser for cash the duty of seeing that the
mortgagor appropriates the proceeds according to the agreement.
Such a contract is not a power of attorney to the mortgagor to sell land of
which the title is in the mortgagee, but only the consent of a lien holder
to the release of his lien in case a sale is made, and it is not required by
the laws of Georgia to be executed before two witnesses.
The conveyance to the mortgagee in this case was a mortgage and not a
deed conveying the legal title.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
._r

Wralter B. Bill for appellants.

-Mrk Clifford Anderson for appellees.
Mm.

JUSTICE,

BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

On April 10, 1884, appellants filed their bill in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Georgia, praying for the foreclosure of a mortgage. The
mortgagor and debtor was Daniel A. Jewell. The other
defendants were alleged to have interests in the mortgaged

OOTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

property On October 29, 1885, a decree was entered dismissing the bill. The opinion filed at the time is reported in 25
,Fed. Rep. 689. On December 30, 1885, a petition for rehearing was filed, which was granted, but on the 17th of June,
1886, a second decree was entered reaffirming the ruling in the
first. Some question was made on the argument as to whether
the amount in controversy at the date of either of the two
decrees was over five thousand dollars. The amount alleged
to be due was $4099.13, "besides interest, all of which, together with said debits and credits, will more fully appear by
a reference to a copy statement of account, hereto annexed
and marked 'Exhibit 0.'" On reference to such exhibit,
an account appears stating a balance due May 4, 1883, of
$24,882.46. Thereafter certain credits are shown of dates
June 5, 1883, January 1, 1884, and March 20, 1884. These
credits, applied on the balance, reduce the amount thereof to
the sum stated, $4099.13, and that final balance is approved
by the assignees of Daniel A. Jewell, as the amount due, "exclusive of interest on the account, which they are entitled to
from May 4th, 1883." Now, if interest be computed on simply
this balance of $4099.13, at seven per cent, the then legal rate
in Georgia, from May 4, 1883, to the date of the last decree,
the amount would be less than five thousand dollars; but that
is not the true method of computation. The balance due on
May 4, 1883, was $24,882.46. Interest on that amount should
be computed to the time of first payment, then the payment
applied, (it exceeding the interest up to that time,) and a computation made of the interest on the balance to the time of
the second payment, and so on. By this method of computation the amount due at the date of either decree would be in
excess of five thousand dollars. This court, therefore, has
jurisdiction of the appeal.
Upon the merits, it appears that Daniel A. Jewell was the
owner of a cotton mill in Georgia, that he consigned its
products to the appellants, commission merchants in New York
city This business had been going on since 1870. On January 17, 1878, Jewell, having drawn on appellants largely in
excess of his shipments, was indebted to them somewhere in

WOODWARD v. JEWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

the neighborhood of thirty thousand dollars. To secure them
for these advances, he executed mortgages on several pieces of
property owned by him in Georgia. Among these mortgages
was one covering a tract of land of about 760 acres, known as
the Hurt Place, and another of about '750 acres, a part of the
Myrick homestead tract. At the time of the execution of
these mortgages a contract was entered into between the appellants and Jewell, by which the appellants agreed to hold
the securities for three years; and also, among other things,
stipulated that "the said Woodward, Baldwin & Co. further
agree that the said Jewell shall have full right and permission
to sell the property named in said deeds and make titles
thereto, the proceeds of sale to go to the credit of the said
Woodward, Baldwin & Co." This agreement was signed by
both parties and witnessed before a notary public. In pursuance of the authority given by this stipulation, on February
8, 1879, Jewell conveyed to one Mary E. Daniel three hundred
and fifty-three acres of the Hurt lands for the expressed consideration of one thousand dollars, and on February 1, 1882,
conveyed the balance of the Hurt lands, as well as the M yrick
tract, to Steth P Myrick, for the expressed consideration of
four thousand and thirty-nine dollars. The validity and effect
of these two conveyances is the matter in dispute.
But one construction can be placed upon this stipulation.
It gave to Jewell authority to sell and transfer title, discharged
of the lien of the mortgage. It did not empower him to sell
subject to the mortgage, that is, to transfer simply his equity
of redemption, for that he had without the stipulation, and it
cannot be supposed that a provision meaning nothing was
deliberately inserted in the contract. Further, the provision
that the proceeds should be applied to the credit of the appellants, makes it clear that they intended to give him power to
transfer a full and unincumbered title. Neither can there be
any doubt that Jewell understood that he could, and intended
to convey a full, unincumbered title, and that the grantees
supposed they were receiving such title. The deeds contain
no suggestion of any incumbrance, and purport to transfer
the title, notwithstanding the fact that there is no warranty

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

therein, and the parol testimony, so far as that is competent,
establishes the fact that such was the purpose and understanding of all the parties. Nor was the duty cast upon the purchasers of seeing that Jewell appropriated the proceeds in
accordance with the stipulation. That was a matter between
Jewell and the appellants, and in respect to which they trusted
him. Nor, further, can there be any substantial question that
the parties acted in entire good faith. It is true that Jewell
did not turn over the proceeds directly to the appellants, but,
according to his testimony, he supposed that the appellants
were abundantly secured by their mortgages on his other property There was apparently good reason for this belief. He
considered his factory, which was included in one of the mortgages, worth at least sixty thousand dollars, an amount sufficient to twice pay his entire indebtedness to appellants; and
after he heard complaint from them in respect to the second
conveyance, he shipped to them enough of the products of his
mill to cover, as he thought, the money he had received.
As against this appellants urge that this contract was invalid
as an authority to convey, because not executed before two
witnesses; and in support of this two sections of the Code of
Georgia are quoted, to wit, 2182 and 2690, Code 1873. The
latter requires a deed to lanids to be attested by at least two
witnesses; and the former provides that "the act creating the
agency must be executed with the same formality (and need
have no more) as the law prescribes for the execution of the
act for which the agency is created." But this contract was
not the creation of an agency to sell lands belonging to the
appellants. The title to the lands was all the while in Jewell.
The instrument which Jewell executed was a mortgage, and,
by section 1054 of the same code, "a mortgage" "is only a
security for a debt, and passes no title." By section 1955 it is
provided that "no particular form is necessary to constitute
a mortgage. It must clearly indicate the creation of a lien,
specify the debt to secure which it is given, and the property
upon which it is to take effect." The section also provides the
mode of execution. All these matters are found in this instrument. It is true that in the middle of the instrument, after

WOODWARD v. JEIVELL.
Opinion of the Court.

the granting clause and the description, and before the warranty and defeasance clauses, is found this sentence "This
deed, made, executed, and delivered under the acts of the legislature of Georgia of 1871 and 1872, and found in the Oode of
1873, sections 1969, 1970, 1971." Appellants contend that
according to these sections the title passed to them, and that,
therefore, °the title being in them, the contract was, for the
reasons above given, insufficient to authorize a sale by Jewell.
But these sections are in an article entitled "Sales to secure
debts;" and apply only to those cases in which an absolute
deed is made of the property, and a bond taken for reconveyance. The first part of section 1969 discloses what instruments
are referred to. It reads "Whenever any person in this State
conveys any real property by deed to secure any debt to any
person loaning or advancing said vendor any money, or to secure any other debt, and shall take a bond for title back to said
vendor upon the payment of such debt or debts, or shall in like
manner convey any personal property by bill of sale, and take
an obligation binding the person to whom said property was
conveyed to reconvey said property upon the payment of said
debt or debts, such conveyance of real or personal property
shall pass the title of said property to the vendee." But
although this instrument recites that it is executed under those
sections, in fact it was not, for no bond for title back was
taken, nor was the instrument signed by the grantees, and it
was, notwithstanding the declaration in it, only a mortgage.
In the case of Lackey v Bostwwlc, 54 Georgia, 45, the istrument considered was a deed absolute on its face, and, while it
was contended that it was in fact executed as security for an
indebtedness, yet such a defence was cognizable only in equity,
and on the face of the instrument the legal title passed. In
Woodsom v Veal, 60 Georgia, 562, the instrument was a deed
absolute on its face. It was, however, intended as security for
a debt, and contained an agreement that the grantor might
repurchase within a specified time, and that the grantee, on
failure to so repurchase, might sell in a certain way It also
contained provisions as to possession and costs and expenses.
This instrument was held effective to pass the legal title. The

OCTOBER TERAM, 1890.
Opmion of the Court.

court observed "Where the parties do not intend a title, but
only a legal mortgage, why should they adopt an absolute
deed instead of a mortgage 2 It is precisely that they do intend, and deliberately intend, title to pass, that they eschew
the mortgage and make use of a deed absolute." The converse
of this is true in the case at bar. The appellants not only accepted this instrument in form a mortgage, but t~ley understood and intended a mortgage. In the bill of complaint it is
expressly averred that "the instrument is in legal effect a
mortgage deed," and, also, that "no bond to reconvey said
property upon the payment of said indebtedness was executed."
It is also alleged that the sales by Jewell to Myrick were made
"subject to the lien of said mortgage to your orators." The
contract, therefore, is not to be taken as a power of attorney
to Jewell to sell land the title of which was in the appellants,
but simply as a consent of lien-holders to the release of their
lien upon a sale made by the mortgagor of the real estate
described in the mortgage.
It is further urged by appellants that the considerations of
these transfers were so far below the real value of the property, as to indicate bad faith on the part of Jewell and his
vendees; or if not that, that the transfers are to be adjudged
as made subject-to the lien of appellants' mortgage. We cannot agree with this contention. The testimony as to the
value is conflicting, but it is very far from making clear that
there was a great disproportion between value and consideration, such a disproportion as would overthrow the evidence of
good faith and the understanding and intent of the parties,
furnished by the other and positive testimony respecting the
same. Jewell had never seen the land, he bought it at a
bankrupt sale m 1874, bought it partly to protect himself, as
he had a claim against the bankrupt, though to perfect his
title he was compelled to pay off certain liens, which made
the property cost him perhaps double what he received for it.
ie wanted money, had been trying to sell the property ever
since'he purchased it, had advertised it for sale, and, so far
as appears, finally disposed of it on the best terms he could
get. So, although he lost money by the transaction, yet if he

WOODWARD v. JEWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

and his vendees acted in good faith, and intended the one to
transfer and the other to receive an unincumbered title, the
disproportion between the value and the consideration does
not justify the court in annulling the transfers, or in making
a new agreement between the parties, or in compelling the
vendees to pay more than they had agreed to.
Thus far we have considered these two transfers by Jewell
as alike, and for the reasons indicated find no reason to differ
from the conclusions reached by the trial court, but they were
not alike. The consideration of the deed to Myrick was cash.
It was a sale, and was within the authority given to Jewell.
The consideration of the conveyance to Mrs. Daniel was a
conveyance by her to Jewell of other lands. The transaction
was an exchange, and not a sale. This was outside of the
authority of Jewell. It is a general proposition that power
to sell gives authority to sell for cash only, and does not uphold a mere exchange. -Morrillv Cone, 22 How 75, Perry
on Trusts, § 769, Taylor v Galloway, 1 Hammond, (1 Ohio,)
l7eveland v State Bank, 16 Ohio St. 236, .Russell v
232,
Russell, 36 N. Y 581, 1 Devlin on Deeds, §§ 370, 373, 436,
1urz1zpk, v Wilson, 5 Heisk. 555.
This is the general rule where there is given simply a power
to sell, and in this case, that the authority was limited to a
sale for cash, is evident from this language of the provision
"The proceeds of sale to go to the credit of the said Woodward, Baldwin & Co." That which was due to these appellants was money, and the proceeds of the sale were to go to
their credit. That implies that money was to be received and
applied on their account. The mortgage from Jewell to appellants was recorded an the county in which the land was
situated. Mrs. Daniel took the property subject to that recorded lien, and can claim no discharge therefrom, save as was
authorized by the language of this stipulation. That permitted a sale, and a sale for cash only The land which she
conveyed to Jewell, he thereafter sold and conveyed to his
nephew It is, therefore, beyond the reach of the appellants.
Nor is it shown that any money was ever applied on appellant's account, which could be considered as an equivalent of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

the land sold, for while Jewell testifies to forwarding the
products of his mill to them when he heard of their com-

plaint, his testimony is that he forwarded what he supposed
was enough to cover the money that he had received.
Our conclusion, then, in reference to this tract of three hundred and fifty-three acres is that Jewell had .no authority to
exchange it for other lands, and that a mere exchange did
not divest the land from the lien of the recorded mortgage.
On this ground, and on this alone, the decree must be reversed. The order, therefore, will be that the decree be
Afrned sofar as respects the parties interested in the land
conveyed to Steth P .Myrwk by the deed of February 2,
1882, that otherwise it be reversed, and the case be remanded wth instructions to enter a decree against Jewell
for the amount duefrom, hm, and a decree of foreclosure
and sale of the three hundred andfifty-three acres of land
conveyed to .Mrs.Daniel by the deed of February3, 1879.
One-half of the costs of this apeal will be paid by the appelants, and the other half charged as costs ?n theforeclosure
against the last-named tract.
Mri. JuSTIcE BRADLEY was not present at the argument of
this case and took no part in its decision.

REY1NOLDS v. STOOKTON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CHANCERY OF THE STATE OF EEW
JERSEY.
No. 289. Argued April 7,1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

When a defendant appears in an action in a state court and responds to the
complaint as filed, but takes no subsequent part in the litigation, and
on those pleadings a judgment is rendered in no way responsive to
them, he is not estopped by the judgment from setting up that fact in
bar to a recovery upon it; and the Constitution of the United States is
not violated by the entry of a judgment in his favor on such an issue,
raised in an action on the judgment brought in a court of another State.

