NORTH AMERICA INS. CO. v. HIBERNIA INS. CO.

565

Syllabus.

the importer in reference to the withdrawal of the property
from the State, nor can we perceive that the Congressional
enactment is given a retrospective operation by holding it
applicable to a transaction of sale occurring after it took effect.
This is not the case of a law enacted in the unauthorized exercise of a power exclusively confided to Congress, but of a law
which it was competent for the State to pass, but which could
not operate upon articles occupying a certain situation until
the passage of the act of Congress. That act in terms removed the obstacle, and we perceive no adequate ground for
adjudging that a refnactment of the state law was required
before it could have the effect upon imported which it had
always had upon domestic property
Jurisdiction attached, not in virtue of the law of Congress,
but because the effect of the latter was to place the property
where jurisdiction could attach.
The decree -is reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings qn conformity wth thts opmnson.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, MR. JUSTICE GRAY and MR. JUSTICE
BREWER concurred in the judgment of reversal, but not in all

the reasoning of the opinion of the court.

INSURANCE COMPANY OF NORTH AMERICA v.
HIBERNIA INSURANCE COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 14. Argued December 3, 1889. -Decided

May 25, 1591.

A contract of reinsurance to the whole extent of the original insurer's liability is valid, in the absence of usage or stipulation to the contrary.
An open policy of insurance, executed in one State and sent to another, and
taking effect by acceptance of risks under it by the insurer's agent there,
is not affected by local usage of the place where it was executed.
A policy of reinsurance, limited to the excess of the original insurer's risk
above a certain sum, does not prevent him from reinsuring himself elsewhere within that sum.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

IN EQUITY. Decree for complainant.
The case is stated in the opinion.

Defendant appealed.

.Mr 1awrence Lewzs, Jr., and -MrJ Ml. Wilson for appellant. Mr J Bayard Henry and -Mr Samuel Shellabarger
were with them on the brief.
'.rThomas J Semmes for appellee.
MR.JusTicE. GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a bill in equity by the Hibernia Insurance Company, a corporation of Louisiana, against the Insurance Company of North America, a corporation of Pennsylvania, to
recover back sums paid under policies of reinsurance by which
the plaintiff reinsured the defendant. The bill prayed for a
discovery, an account and general relief. The case was referred
to a master, upon whose report a decree was entered for the
plaintiff for $27,986.79, with interest from the date, of the
master's report, and costs. The defendant appealed to this
court.
Upon full examination of the voluminous and somewhat
conflicting evidence, the material facts, as clearly established,
appear to be as follows:
In September, 1880, Marshall J Smith, a member of the
firm of Marshall J Smith & Co., agents of the Hibernia Insurance Company at New Orleans, was in Philadelphia, and
called upon Charles Platt, Jr., an insurance broker, son of the
president of the Insurance Company of North America, but in
no way connected in business with that company, and asked
him if he could get business for the Hibernia Insurance Company and a commission for himself, by making an arrangement
by which the Insurance Company of North America should
reinsure with the Hibernia Insurance Company under an open
policy issued in Platt's name, and Smith said he would go
back to New Orleans, and write Platt on the subject, and
accordingly, after returning to New Orleans, sent him the following letter"

NORTH AMIERICA INS. CO. v.HIBERNIA INS CO.

567

Opinion of the Court.

"New Orleans, October 6, 1880.
"Charles Platt, Jr., Esq., Philadelphia.
"Dear Sir Our Mr. Smith has returned home, and begs to
refer to his conversation with you in regard to reinsuring here
the excess lines of the North America. We have consulted
with the officers of the Hibernia Ins. Co., a branch of which
company is under our management, and we propose to take a
proportion of the general reinsurance of the North America,
excepting coastwise risks from New York here, of which business, at the present rates, we believe the North America does
little. The Hibernia will carry a line of $10,000 on all foreign
business of the company at all ports, excepting New Orleans.
From New Orleans the line must be limited to $5000, as the
Hibernia often have a line from their customers, and they may
unknowingly double on a vessel. The Hibernia will allow
twenty-five per cent rebate, and to you a brokerage of five per
cent. Should you be able to arrange this, please notify us at
once. The Hlibernia Ins. Co. has a capital of $400,000 paid
up, is conservative, and we look upon it here as in every way
first class for the amount of risk they will assume.
"Yours truly,
MARSHALL J SMITH & Co."
To this letter Platt, after calling on the officers of the Insurance Company of North America, who agreed to give a
share of their reinsurance business to the Hibernia Insurance
Company, sent the following reply
"Charles Platt, Jr., Insurance, 331 Walnut Street, Philadelphia
"Philadelphia, October 11, 1880.
"Marshall J Smith, Esq., New Orleans.
"Dear Sir Your valued favor of the 6th inst. is received
and I note contents with care. The Ins. Co. of North Amer
ica, through me, will be glad to enter into the reinsurance
arrangement with the Hibernia on the terms named. I inclose
herewith a policy I had with the Home Ins. Co. of Newark,
N. J., which you can take a copy of on a Hibernia policy,
making the sum insured $10,000. Please send me the policy

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

and I can begin at once. Of course all risks accepted by me
will be such that the Ins. Co. of North America carries their
line on, and all risks that are bound by me will be held by the
Co., as it will not do to have any cancellations. Shall I report
all risks to you or the Hibernia Co. direct
I see no reason
why the arrangement should not prove a success, and I will
do all I can to make it so. The most part of it will be grain
and general cargo from Atlantic ports to Europe. Please
return the Home policy With many thanks and regards
from Mr. Prictet and myself, I am,
"Yours very truly,

CHARLEs

PLAT ,

JR."

On October 13, 1880, the Hibernia Insurance Company
issued to Platt an open policy, No. 268, m which " The Hlibernia Insurance Company of New Orleans by this policy of insurance do make insurance and cause to be insured Charles
Platt, Jr., for account of whom it may concern, lost or not
lost, at and from ports in the United States and foreign ports,
upon all kinds of lawful goods, merchandise, etc.," with the
names of the vessel and master, voyage, value of goods insured, rate of premium and amount of risk left blank, and
otherwise in the usual form of a policy of marine insurance,
not reinsurance, and having this indorsement. "This policy is
limited to the sum of ten thousand ($10,000) dollars upon any
one vessel from all ports except from New Orleans, where the
limit is hereby agreed to and understood to be five thousand
($5000) dollars. This policy is not to cover any risk from
port or ports to New Orleans. Notice of each shipment to be
given to Tvarsball J Smith & Co., managers, as soon as known,
and amounts declared as soon as ascertained. This policy to
be continuous until cancelled by either party giving twenty
days' notice, but without any prejudice to risks pending at the
date of cancellation."
Platt showed this policy to the officers of the Insurance
Company of North America, but retained it in his own possession.
The Hibernia Insurance Company in 1881 and 1882 issued
and sent to the Insurance Company of North America, on

NORTH AMfERICA INS. CO. v. HIBERNIA INS. CO.

569

Opnon of the Court.

application of its president, four other open policies, Nos.

277, 296, 297, 306, in a different form from No. 268, and
differing from each other only in date, voyage and amount
of excess.
In No. 297, for instance, dated November 9, 1881, "The

Hiberma Insurance Company of New Orleans by this policy
of insurance do make insurance and cause to be reinsured the

Insurance Company of North America, for account of whom
it may concern, lost or not lost, at and from port or ports in
the West India Islands to port or ports in the United States,
direct or via port or ports, liberty of transshipment to include
risk of lighterage when such is assumed by the Insurance

Company of North America, upon all kinds of lawful goods,
merchandise, etc." That policy had this endorsement "To
apply to the excess which the said company may have in all

their various policies over fifty thousand ($50,000) dollars, and
to apply pro rata with all reinsurance policies on same excess,
but"not to exceed ten thousand ($10,000) dollars. This policy
may be cancelled by either party giving notice to that effect,
but without prejudice to risks pending at the date of cancellation. This policy is subject to such risks, valuations, conditions and mode of settlement as are or may be taken by the
said Insurance Company of North America, notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in the within policy, and payment
of loss to be made at the same time. Returns to be sent to
MNarshall J. Smith & Co., in New Orleans."
No. 277, dated April 14, 1881, was on an excess of $60,000
on goods from La Guayra, Porto Cabello and Curagoa to ports
in the United States, No. 296, dated November 14, 1881, was
on an excess of $50,000 on goods from the East Indies, to
ports in the United States, and No. 306, dated September 1,
1882, was on an excess of $70,000 on goods from ports in the
United States to ports in Europe.
Many hundred of reinsurances were made under the five
policies, mostly under No. 268, in the following manner
Whenever the Insurance Company of North America desired
reinsurance, it handed to Platt as representing the Hibernia
Insurance Company an application in the form copied in the

OCTOBER TERMV, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

margin,' except in sometimes omitting all statements as to
excess, and Platt, after accepting the application and entering it in his books, forthwith sent to Marshall J Smith & Co.
at New Orleans a certificate in the form copied in the margin,2 and afterwards, as soon as he was advised by the Insurance Company of North America of the exact amount of risk
attaching, sent to Marshall J Smith & Co. a statement of
particulars in the form copied in the margin.3 All Platt's
commissions were paid by the Hibernia Insurance Company,
out of the premiums received by it from the Insurance Company of North America.
I Philadelphia,
18Reinsurance is wanted by the Insurance Company of North America for
$on on board of the at and from - to apply to the
excess which the said company may have on all their various policies on
vessel, freight, cargo or profits, including specie or treasure, over $and to applypro rata with all reinsurance policies on same excess, but not
to exceed $This policy is to be subject to such risks, valuations,
conditions and mode of settlement as are or may be taken by the said
Insurance Company of North America, notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in the within policy and payment of loss to be made at the same
time. To remain open until particulars are given in.
Premium, per cent, less per cent, $When and where built, -,
number of decks, -;
tonnage, -,
rate, Secretary.
To the -2 Office of Charles Platt, Jr., Philadelphia.
Certificate No. No. Insurance has been made in the Hibernia Insurance Company of N. 0.,
under open policy No. for Insurance Company of North America,
payable, in case of loss, to them, for $upon on board at and
from -

to -.

When built, -,
where built, -,
Remarks,-, rate, Premium, per cent, $Philadelphia, - 188-

metalled, -;

tonnage,CHARLES PLATT, JR.

3 To the Hibernia Insurance Company of New Orleans.
The amount attaching on open entry of
188- under open
policy No. , on per ship , is , at per cent, premium,
$-

, net, $-

Philadelphia, -

CHARLES PLATT, JR.

-

NORTH AMERICA INS. CO. v. HIBERNIA INS. CO.

571

Opinion of the Court.

On July 1, 1883, an endorsement was made on each of the
five policies, in the following form, differing only in the description of the number of each policy "New Orleans, La.,
July 1, 1883. From and after this date this policy, No. 268,
of the Hibernia Insurance Co. of New Orleans shall apply to
five thousand dollars ($5000) instead of ten thousand dollars
($10,000) as heretofore, on same excess as expressed therein
and subject to the same terms and conditions."
On November 23, 1883, all the policies were cancelled, in accordance with their terms, by the Hibernia Insurance Company
The bill and the master's report proceed upon the theory
that Platt, acting for the Insurance Company of North America, applied to the Hibernia Insurance Company to reinsure
the Insurance Company of North America on the excess of its
usual line, (that is to say, beyond the sum usually carried by it
on any good risk, which was alleged to be $50,000,) and represented to the Hlibernia Insurance Company that it was to reinsure only those risks that the Insurance Company of North
America carried its usual line on, that the Hibernia Insurance
Company, upon the faith of that representation, issued nominally to Platt, but really to the Insurance Company of North
America, policy No. 268, that the Hibernia Insurance Company afterwards issued the other four policies directly to the
Insurance Company of North America for stated excesses;
that by ancient and general usage reinsurance is always made
upon the faith that the reinsured procures it on the excess only
of the usual line carried by him, and is never, unless for special
reasons disclosed, effected to the full sum originally insured,
that various reinsurance risks were placed by the Insurance
Company of North America with the Iibernia Insurance
Company under all the policies, and particularly under No.
268, in cases where the Insurance Company of North America
was not itself carrying the full sum of $50,000, and in many
such cases the Hibernia Insurance Company paid losses without knowledge of that fact, and that many reports of risks
made by the Insurance Company of North America were false,
and were outside of the terms of the policies. We are unable
to concur in this view of the case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Platt was an insurance broker, carrying on an independent
business, and was employed, not by the Insurance Company
of North America, but by the Hibernia Insurance Company,
to obtain for it a proportion of the reinsurance business of the
Insurance Company of North America. The letter of October
6, 1880, from the Hibernia Insurance Company's agents at
New Orleans to Platt, after referring generally, and by way
of introducing the subject, to their previous- conversation "in
regard to reinsuring here the excess lines of the North America," proposed, on behalf of the Hibernia Insurance Company,
"to take a proportion of the general reinsurance business of the
North America," excepting certain voyages, and limiting the
amount which the Hibernia Insurance Company would take
on each risk. In Platt's letter in reply of October 11, 1880,
the statement that "the Insurance Company of North America, through me, will be glad to enter into the reinsurance
arrangement with the Hibernia on the terms named," apparently refers to the terms as to voyages and amounts to be
taken by the Hibernia Insurance Company There is no evidence whatever that the Insurance Company of North America authorized him to contract or to represent in its behalf
that the reinsurance should be only in excess of its usual line.
Nor is there anything in his letter which shows an assumption
of such authority by him. Reliance is placed on this senteice "Of course all risks accepted by me will be such that
the Insurance Company of North America carries their line
on, and all the risks that are bound by me will be held by the
company, as it will not do to have any cancellations." But
the clear meaning and purpose of this are, first, to assure the
Hibernia Insurance Company, his employer, that he will only
accept in its behalf risks that the Insurance Company of North
America carries its line on, and, second, to warn it that whatever risks he does accept will be held by that company
Policy No. 268, dated October 13, 1880, was made by the
Hibernia Insurance Company to Platt "for account of whom
it may concern," and sent to him at Philadelphia, to enable
him to accept in its behalf reinsurance there, and never took
effect as a contract of reinsurance of the Insurance Company

NORTH AMERICA INS. CO. v. HIBERNIA INS. CO.

573

Opinion of the Court.

of North America on any risk, until the risk had been stated
by that company to Platt, and by him accepted in behalf of
the ilibernia Insurance Company The contract between the
two insurance companies was made in Philadelphia. The evidence introduced by the Hibernia Insurance Company to prove
a usage not to reinsure to the whole amount of the original
insurance, giving it the utmost possible weight, proved no
more than a local usage in New Orleans. See Louisiana Ins.
Co. v -New Orleans Ins. Co., 13 La. Ann. 246. It could not
therefore affect a contract made elsewhere, and it is unnecessary to consider whether evidence of a similar usage, if universal, would be admissible to control a written contract expressed m the terms of this policy 111acy v. TFaling Ins. Co.,
9 Met. 354, 365, 366, Parkhurst v Gloucester Ins. Co., 100
Mass. 301, Cobb v -&me Bock Ins. Co., 58 Maine, 326.
In the absence of any such usage, and of any specific stipulation in the policy, there can be no doubt that the original
insurer may protect himself to the whole extent of his liability
In the words of Roccus, quoted and approved by Emerigon,
by Mr. Justice Park and by Mr. Justice Livingston, secundus
a.vsecurator tenetur ad solvendum omne totum quod "ri~mus
assecurator solvert. Roccus, n. 30, Emerigon, c. 8, ยง 14,
Park Ins. (8th ed.) 595, Hasthe v De Peyster, 3 Cames, 190,
196. So Chancellor Kent says "After an insurance has been
made, the insurer may have the entire sum he hath insured,
reassured to him by some other insurer. The object of this
is indemnity against his own act." 3 Kent Com. 278. See
also Phenix Ins. Co. v Brie TransportationCo., 117 U. S. 312,
323, Bradford v iyrnondson, 7 Q. B. D. 456.
Policy No. 268, as originally issued, mentions no limit of
excess. It contains nothing to prevent its taking effect for the
sums thereby insured, although covering the whole original
insurance. It does not even show that it is a reinsurance, but
it is not the less effectual for that reason. .3ackenzte v TVit'worth, L. R. 10 Ex. 142, and 1 Ex. D 36. In the agreement
of July 1, 1883, endorsed on each of the five policies, by which
the sum insured on any one vessel is reduced from $10,000 to
$5000 "on same excess as expressed therein," the words just

OCTOBER TER-M, 1890.
Opinion. of the Court.

quoted can have no effect as applied to this policy, in which
no excess is expressed. All the reinsurances under policy 1\o.
268, therefore, were in accordance with the terms of the contract, and the allegations of fraud are wholly unsupported by
the evidence.
All the claims of the Hibernia Insurance Company, sustained
by the decree below, relate to reinsurances under this policy,
and are disposed of by what has been said, except two under
policy No. 296, as to which there is admitted to have been
error, and one under policy No. 297.
That policy, by the terms of the original endorsement thereon, was "to apply to the excess which the said company may
have in their various policies over $50,000, and to apply pro
rata with all reinsurance policies on same excess," This
clause, while it limits the reinsurance by the Hibernia Insurance Company to excess over the sum named, contains nothing
to prevent the original insurer from protecting himself by
obtaining reinsurance from other companies within that sum.
There was error, therefore, in holding that the fact that the
Insurance Company of North America had obtained such reinsurance elsewhere avoided the reinsurance of the Hibernia
Insurance Company upon the same property
The result is, that the decree must be
-Reversed, and the cause remanded to the Cireutt Court with
directions to enter a decree disnwsszng te bill, with costs.
MR. JusTicE BP.EWER and MR. JUsTm E BuowN, not having
been members of the court when this case was argued, took no
part in the decision.

