OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Concurring Opinion. Field, J.

verton, which he had found to be N.W by N. by nstake.
We have already held that the Circuit Court is bound to find
all such facts as are material and necessary to a correct determmation of the question of liability involved. Upon examination of these proposed findings in connection with the evidence
set out in the bill of exceptions, we think that most of them
are immaterial, or are covered by the findings actually made.
The sixth, however, is important, and reads as follows: "The
porting of the Wolverton's wheel when she was about 200 feet
from the Packer was a change of four or five points from her
course." We think the claimant was entitled to a finding in
regard to this point. It would also have been more satisfactory if the court bad found the number of points the Packer
swung under the order to starboard given "upon signalling the
WolvertoA," as found in the ninth finding. But as no request
was made for a finding upon this point, and no exception
taken to the omission, it is now too late for the claimant to
demand it.
T7e decree of the court below will breversed,
e
and the case
remanded orfurther proceedings?.?b conforrmnty with this
opn-zn.

In re WOOD, Petitioner.
.APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UINITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1581. Decided May 11, 1891, and reported ante, page 278.

Concurringopnlon of .Mr Justice Field.
I CONCUR in the judgment in this case, but not in all the

views expressed in the opinion. I adhere to what I said in
my dissent in the case of .Nealv Delaware, 103 U. S. 370, 405,
409, that there is nothing in the late amendments to the Constitution, the Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth, which
xeqmres that colored citizens shall be summoned on juries,

HARDIN v. JORDAN.
Statement of the Case.

grand or petit, m order to secure to persons of their race
justice and equality in the administration of the law, and,

further, that the manner in which jurors to serve in the state
courts shall be selected, and the qualifications they shall possess, are matters entirely of state regulation.

HARDIN v. JORDAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 161. Argued January 23, 26, 27, 1S91.-Decided May 11, 1891.
In ejectment a plaintiffimust stand or fall by his own title, and cannot avail
himself of a defect in the title of the defendant.
Grants by the United States of its public lands bounded on streams and
other waters, made without reservation or restriction, are to be construed,
as to their effect, according to the law of the State in which the lands lie.
It depends upon the laws of each State to what extent the prerogative of
the State to lands under water shall extend. The cases reviewed.
A judicial decision of the present day, made by the court of highest authority in Great Britain, is entitled to the highest consideration on a question
of pure common law.
By the common law, under a grant of lands bounded on a lake or pond
which is not tide-water and is not navigable, the grantee takes to the
centre of the lake or pond, ratably with other riparian proprietors if
there be such. and this rule prevailed in Illinois when the patent to the
plaintiff's ancestor was granted in 1841, and is still the law of that State,
notwithstanding the opinion of its highest court in -Trusteesof Schools v.
Schroll, 120 Illinois, 509.
The ruling of the Supreme Court of Illinois in its opinion in Trustees of
Schools v. Schroll, 120 Illinois, 509, that a grant of lands bounded by a lake
or stream does not extend to the centre thereof, was not necessary to the
decision of the case, and, being opposed to the entire course of previous
decisions in that State, it is disregarded.
The adverse decision of the land department does not estop plaintiff, because it had no jurisdiction over the case.

EJEo ENT. Judgment for the defendant. The plaintiff
sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in the opmon.

