WILLIAMS v. HEARD.
Statement of the Case.

WILLIAMS v. HEARD.
ERROR TO

THE SUPREME

JUDICIAL

COURT

OF

THE

STATE

OF

MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 375. Argued May 1, 1891. -Decided May 25, 1891.

When the judgment of a state court is against an assignee in bankruptcy
in an actibn between him and the bankrupt, where the question at issue
is whether the matter in. controversy passed by the assignment, this
court has jurisdiction in error to review the judgment.
The sum awarded by the Tribunal of Arbitration at Geneva, when paid,
constituted a national fund, in winch no individual claimant had any
rights legal or equitable, and which Congress could distribute as it
pleased.
The decisions and awards of the Court of Commissioners of Alabama
Claims, under the statutes of the United States, were conclusive as to
the amount to be paid upon each claim adjudged to be valid, but not as
to the party entitled to receive it.
A claim decided by that court to be a valid claim against the United States
is property which passes to the assignee of a bankrupt under an assignment made prior to the decision.
Comegys v. Vasse, 1 Pet. 193, again affirmed and applied, and United States
v. Weld, 127 U. S. 51, distinguished.

Tins was an action for money had and received, brought in
the Supreme Judicial Court of the Commonwealth of Xassachusetts, for the county of Suffolk, by John Heard, Augustine
Heard and Albert F Heard, against their assignees in bankruptcy, to recover the amount of an award made by the Court
of Commissioners of Alabama Claims, under the act of Congress approved June 5, 1882, 22 Stat. 98, c. 195, on account of
war .premiums of insurance paid by the plaintiffs during the
war of the rebellion, which award had been paid to the assignees by the United States.
The case was entered in the full court, where it was tried
upon tb following agreed statement of facts.
"The plaintiffs, citizens of the United States, were engaged
between April 13, 1861, and April 9, 1865, as partners under
the firm-name of Augustine Heard and Company, in the buslvoL. cxL-34

OCTOBEIR TERAI, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

ness of buying and shipping steamers for China, receiving
merchandise from China and selling the same and insuring
merchandise and vessels. During that period the plaintiffs
bore true allegiance to the government of the United States,
and, after the sailing of the first Confederate cruiser, they
made, in the course of their business, certain enhanced payments of insurance, otherwise called payments of premiums
for war risks or war premiums, on merchandise and vessels to
an amount exceeding the sum awarded on their account by
the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims, as hereinafter
set forth.
"On May 31, 1865, the said firm of Augustine Heard and
Company was dissolved by the agreement of the members
thereof. On August 5, 1875, the plaintiffs were severally adjudicated bankrupts in the U. S. District Court for the District
of Massachusetts. On September 11, 1875, assignments in
bankruptcy in the usual form were made to the defendants,
and on July 20, 1877, the plaintiffs received their discharge in
bankruptcy The said firm and each of the plaintiffs individually were solvent when said firm was dissolved, and all the
debts owed by the plaintiffs at the time of their said adjudication in bankruptcy were incurred after said dissolution. The
estate of said bankrupts received by the defendants hitherto
has been insufficient to pay in full the debts of the bankrupts.
"In December, 1886, an award was made by the Court of
Commissioners of Alabama Claims, established under the act
of Congress approved June 5, 1882, to the defendants as assignees in bankruptcy of the plaintiffs in proceedings in said
court, to which the .plaintiffs in this action were parties, on
account of the said payments of war premiums by the plaintiffs, and was in part paid to the defendants by the United
States. Of the sum so awarded and paid there remains in the
hands of the defendants, after paying the reasonable expenses
of prosecuting the claim before said court of commissioners
and collecting the award, the sum of thirteen thousand six
hundred and twelve and M ($13,612.85) dollars. The amount
of the Geneva award remaining unappropriated was insufficient to pay the war-premium awards in full.

WILLIAMS v. HEARD.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

"The treaty of Vashington, between the United States and
Great Britain, promulgated July 4, 1871, the decisions rendered by the tribunal of arbitration at Geneva, and the final
decision and award made by said tribunal on September 18,
1872, the acts of Congress of June 23, 1874, and June 5, 1882,
respectively, creating and reestablishing the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims, the several acts of Congress relating to the said courts and the payment of their awards, are to
be treated as facts in this case and may be referred to at the
argument.
"No controversy or question exists between the parties as to
the proportions in which the several plaintiffs are entitled, if
at all, to the sum recovered, or as to the distribution of the
same, and it is agreed that if upon the foregoing facts the
plaintiffs are entitled to recover, judgment is to be entered for
them and the case is to stand for the assessment of damages;
otherwise judgment for the defendants. It is further agreed
that in either event the expenses of this action and reasonable
counsel fees to each party may be paid out of the fund in the
defendants' hands."
There was a judgment for the plaintiffs, two of the judges
dissenting (146 Mass. 545), the rescript being entered April 25,
1888. By agreement damages were assessed at $10,000, and,
in accordance therewith, judgment for that amount was
entered on the 5th of June, 1888. To review that judgment
this writ of error was prosecuted.
One of the defendants having died and the other having
resigned his trust, the present plaintiff in error was appointed
assignee, and he thereafter regularly entered his appearance in
the case.
Abr 3foses MIilliams and _fr C. A. Williams for plaintiff
in error.
.X" Henry TV Putnam for defendants in error.
I. This is not a Federal question within the meaning of
United States Rev Stat. sec. 709, but one of general law and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

of the policy of the law as to what interests or expectancies
will, and what will not, pass as -im the eye of the law property under a general assignment by operation of law for
the benefit of creditors under insolvency and bankruptcy laws.
Such questions of general law decided by a state court do not
give this court jurisdiction. Bethel v Demaret, 10 Wall.
537, Delnas v. Ins. Co., 14 Wall. 661, Stetnes v F'anklin
County, 14: Wall. 15, Tarver v Xeach, 15 Wall 67, Ins. Co.
v -Hendren, 92 U. S. 286, Rockhold v. Rockhold, 92 U S.
129, United States v ThomTson, 93 U. S. 586, W~ol v Stir,
96 U S. 54:1, Old Domsmon Bank v .Me Vezgh, 98 U. S. 332,
Lange v Benedict, 99 U. S. 68, Allen v. .3lcVezgh, 107 U S.
433, Grame v fut. Ass. Co., 112 U S. 273, 275, Railroad
Co. v Pock, 4 Wall. 177, 181, Chouteau v Gibson, 111 U. S.
200, Boatmen's Savzngs Bank v State Savngs Ass'n, 114.
U S. 265, 268-269, San Francmsco v. Itsell, 133 U. S. 65, 67,
]Mannsng v French, 133 U. S. 186. And it is so, though
plaintiff in error's general title in the subject matter is under
an act of Congress. Zennedy v. Hunt, 7 How 586, 594.
The assignee's right or title to this money is evidently not
claimed under the Constitution, it does not arise under a
treaty, nor does it arise under a statute.
There is no pretence that the act of 1882 grants this money
to creditors or assignees in bankruptcy The original sufferers
are alone mentioned in the act or contemplated by it. The
assignee can be said to claim under the act, if at all, only
derivatively through us, at second hand, and in a remote and
indirect sense which this court has expressly rejected in construing similar statutes conferring jurisdiction. United States
v Weld, 127 U. S. 51, 57.
Even the rights of the direct claimants themselves have
been held not to have grown out of the act of 1874: within
the meaning of jurisdictional statutes. Great Western Ins.
Co. v United States, 112 U S. 199. The war-premium claims
are, indeed, in the sense of the legal rights, created solely and
originally by the act of 1882; but they are created not in the
assignee, but in us.
The award of the Court of Alabama Commissioners to the

WILLIAMS v. HEARD.
Argunment for Defendants in Error.

assignee is not "a commission held or authority exercised
under the United States," within the meaning of either the
first or third clause of sect. 709. To come within the statute,
such an authority must be a governmental power competent
to create the right or title in question. ZXillingar v. Hartu.pee, 6 Wall. 258, 261-2.
In our case the award of the commissioners gave the assignee only a bare prima facie right to receive the money,
no valid legal right to it. The commissioners were not a judicial tribunal. Comegys v -asse,1 Pet. 193, 212, Frevall v
.Baeke, 14 Pet. 95, Great Western, As. Co. v Unted States,
112 U. S. 193, leonard v NTye, 125 M ass. 455, 458,- Ahrens
v. Brooks, 68 Maryland, 212, Taft v .Harsily, 120 N. Y
474, Kingsbury v -Afattools, 81 Maine, 310.
II. If the court finds that it has jurisdiction of the case, the
single question raised by all of the remaining ten assignments
of error, though presented in various aspects and stated in different ways, is simply this Did the defendants in error have,
in regard to this so-called "claim" for war premiums at the
date of their adjudication in bankruptcy (August 5, 1875), any
estate or property assignable in bankruptcy under the bankrupt act of 1867, Rev. Stat. ยง 5044, then in force 2
So far as any question that has not already been expressly
adjudicated by this court can be regarded as settled as a matter of precedent and authority, this question is already settled
in our favor. Four state courts of last resort of the highest
authority have determined the precise point at issue in favor
of the bankrupts and against the assignees, all upon the same
general ground, namely, that, prior to the passage of the
act of 1882, the war-premium "claims" had not the elements
of a legal r2ght in them so as to pass under a general assignment by operation of law Only what exists in law can pass
by mere operation of law Beard v Sturgis, 146 Mass. 545,
Taft v. .farsily, 120 N. Y 474, Brooks v Ahrens, 68 Maryland, 212, Fingsbury v 3Mattocks, 81 Maine, 310.
The defendants in error who had paid enhanced premiums
of insurance in 1861-65, went into bankruptcy in 1875, seven
years before the passage of the act of June 5, 1882, 22 Stat.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890:
Argument for Defendants in Error.

98, which authorized the payment of the war-premium claims
from the unexpended balance of the Geneva award. The act
of 1874, 18 Stat. 245, had provided for the distribution of the
money received from Great Britain in accordance with the
judgments of the Geneva tribunal and the terms of the award,
and, therefore, to all the persons who had, in any legal or
judicial sense, any "right" to the money It merely gave a
xemedy for the existing rights.
The latter point has been expressly held both negatively
and affirmatively by this court, in holding, in accordance with
the judgment of the Geneva tribunal, that the direct "claims"
were not created as rights by the act of 1874, that they
existed against Great Britain before the passage of that act
and even before the treaty, Bachman v Lawson, 109 U. S.
659, and Great Western Insurance Co. v United States, 112
U. S. 193, and.that the war-premium "claims" did not arise
under the treaty, and had no existence as "rights," until the
act of 1882 created them such against the United States.
United States v Weld, 127 U. S. 51.
The cases on the assignability in bankruptcy of pensions go
upon the same distinction, namely, that an antecedent legal
right possessing the rnnculum, yurs, although without a
remedy,- being against the government,- will pass to the
assignee, but that a mere equitable claim, which not only
lacks the remedy but would not be a legal right if a private
individual stood in the government's place, will not pass. In
re Webber, 18 Q. B. D. 111, In ree Wichs, 17 Oh. D. 70, Gibson v- East India Co., 5 Bing. (N. 0.) 262, 274, E parte
Hawker (L. R.) 7 Oh. 214, Innes v East India Co., 17 0. B.
851. These grants of money do not pass in bankruptcy,
because they are only "imperfect obligations, - obligations
which want the vtnculum yurts, although binding in moral
equity and conscience
of which the performance is
to be sought for by petition, memorial or remonstrance, not by
action in a court of law" Tindal, C. J., in Gibson v East
India Co., ub? supra. See also Atilner v fetz, 16 Pet. 227,
Erw-n v United States, 97 U. S. 392, In re Haggzns, 21 Oh.
D. 85, Phe ps v lcDonald, 99U S. 298, .urnand v Rhodocanachi, 7 App. Oas. 333.

WILLIAMS v. HEARD.
Opinion of the Court.

The true rule to be deduced from the decisions of this court
may be summed up as follows A legal right existing at the
date of the assignment is, in the eye of the law, property, and
passes to the assignee, though there be no remedy for enforoing it by judicial process. Where, however, there is neither
remedy nor the constituent elements of a legal right, the claim
or expectancy does not pass, and the subsequently created
right dates from -the time of its creation and goes to the
claimant or to his legal representatives or to his assignees by
contract, and becomes assignable by operation of law (as in
bankruptcy) only after the creating act. Any other rule would
defeat the whole purpose of a bankrupt law, -the relief of
honest traders,- and prevent the bankrupt from ever acquiring property after his assignment, for any acquisition he might
make would necessarily be connected more or less remotely
by some slender chain of cause and effect with transactions or
events antedating his bankruptcy, and, therefore, under such
a rule, would go to the assignee. The line must be drawn at
the point we have indicated or not at all. It is submitted that
the authorities on the general subject sustain this ground.
The only judicial authority opposed to our view is the
opinion of the Court of Alabama Commissioners, by French,
J., on the bankruptcy question, dated March 3, 1884, and the
dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Field in this case (146 Mass.
552-58).
MR. JusTIcE L.wAR, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The single question on the merits of the case is, whether, at
the date of their adjudication in bankruptcy, the claim of the
defendants in error for war premiums passed to their assignees
in bankruptcy, as a part of their estate.
As preliminary to the discussion of the merits of the case,
it is urged by the defendants in error that this is not a Federal question, and that, therefore, the writ of error should be
dismissed. We do not think, however, that this contention
can be sustained. Both parties claim the proceeds of the

OCTOBER TER-A,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

award, the defendants in error asserting that it did not pass
to their assignees in bankruptcy under section 5044 of the
Revised Statutes, and the plaintiff in error insisting that the
claim was a part of their estate at the date of their adjudication in bankruptcy, and did pass to the assignees under that
section of the Revised Statutes. The assignee's claim to the
award is based on that section of the statutes; and as the
state court decided against him, this court has jurisdiction
under section 709, Revised Statutes, to review that judgment,
for the decision of the state court was against a "right" or
"title" claimed under a statute of the United States, within
the meaning of that section.
The case upon the merits is more difficult. There is high
authority in the state courts in support of the judgment of
the court below The same general question has arisen in
lNew York, in Maryland and in Maine, and in each instance
the decision has been, like the one we are reviewing, against
the assignee. See Taft v 3farsily, 120 N. Y 474, Br'ook&
v Ah 'ens, 68 Maryland, 212, and Eingsbury v -Mattocks, 81
Maine, 310. But as the question is one arising under the
bankruptcy statute of the United States, we cannot rest our
judgment upon those adjudications alone, however persuasive
they may be.
By the treaty of Washington, concluded May 8, 1871,
between the United States and Great Britain, and proclaimed
July 4, 1871, 17 Stat. 863, it was provided that, in order to
settle the differences which had arisen between the United
States and Great Britain respecting claims growing out of
depredations committed by the Alabama and other designated
vessels which had sailed from British ports, upon the commerce and navy of the United States, which were generically
known as the Alabama claims, those claims should be submitted to a tribunal of arbitration called to meet at Geneva,
in Switzerland. The claims presented to that tribunal on the
part of the representative of the United States included those
arising out of damages committed by those cruisers, and also
indirect claims of several descriptions, and among them claims
for enhanced premiums of insurance, or war risks, as they

WILLIAMS v. HEARD.
Opinion of the Court.

were sometimes called. As respects the claims for enhanced
premiums for war risks, and certain other indirect claims,
objection was made by Greak Britian to their consideration
by the tribunal, as not having been included in the purview of
the treaty, and as no agreement could be reached, upon this
point, between the representatives of the respective governments, the arbitrators, without expressing any opinion upon
the point of difference as to the interpretation of the treaty,
stated that "after the most careful perusal of all that has
been urged on the part of the government of the United
States in respect of -these claims, they have arrived, individually and collectively, at the conclusion that these claims
do not constitute, upon the principles of international law
applicable to such cases, good foundation for an award of
compensation or computation of damages between nations,
and should, upon such principles, be wholly excluded from the
consideration of the tribunal in making its award, even if
there were no disagreement between the two governments as
to the competency of the tribunal to decide thereon." Messages and Documents, Department of State, Pt. 2, vol. 4,
1872-3, p. 20.
This declaration of the tribunal was accepted by the President of the United States as determinative of their judgment
upon the question of public law involved, and, accordingly,
those indirect claims were not insisted upon before the tribunal, and were not in fact taken into consideration in making
their award. Id. 21.
The tribunal finally awarded to the United States $15,500,000 as indemnity for losses sustained by citizens of this country by reason of the acts of the aforesaid cruisers, and that
sum was paid over by Great Britain.
It was held in United States v Weld, 127 U S.51, that this
award was made to the United States as a nation. The fund
was, at all events, a national fund to be distributed by Congress as it saw fit. True, as citizens of the United States had
suffered in person and property by reason of the acts of the
Confederate cruisers, and as justice demanded that such losses
should be made good by the government of Great Britain, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

most natural disposition .of the fund that could be made by
Congress was in the payment of such losses. But no individual claimant had, as a matter of strict legal or equitable right,
any lien upon the fund awarded, nor was Congress under any
legal or equitable obligation to pay any claim out of the proceeds of that fund.
We premise this much to show that, as respects the various
claims, both of the first and second classes, for which payment
was afterwards provided by Congress, they stood on a basis of
equality, in the matter of legal right on the part of the claimants to demand their payment, or legal obligation on the part
of the government of the United States to pay them. There
was, undoubtedly, a moral obligation on the United States to
bestow the fund received upon the individuals who had suffered losses at the hands of the Confederate cruisers, and in
this sense all the claims of whatsoever nature were possessed
of greater or less pecuniary value. There was at least a possibility of their payment by Congress- an expectancy of
interest in the fund, that is, a possibility coupled with an
interest.
The first provision made for the distribution of this fund
was by the act of June 23, 1874, 18 Stat. 245, c. 459. By
that act there was established a court known as .the Court of
Commissioners of Alabama Claims, to be composed of five
judges, whose duties, among other things, were to receive and
examine all claims, admissible under the act, that might be
presented to them, directly resulting from damage caused by
the aforementioned Confederate cruisers. By section 8 the
court was to exist for one year from the date of its first convening and organizing, and the President might, by proclamation, extend its existence for six months more. By subsequent
acts of Congress the existence of the court was continued until
January 1, 1877,to enable it to complete the business for which
it was created.
The claims allowed by this court did not amount to the sum
of the award, and as many claims had not been presented to
the court, Congress by the act of June 5, 1882, 22 Stat. 98, c.
195, reestablished the court "for the distribution of the unap-

WILLIAMS v. HEARD.
Opinion of the Court.

propriated moneys of the Geneva award." It was made the
duty of the court, as reorganzed, to receive and examine the
claims which might be presented, putting them into two
classes, and to render judgment for the amounts allowed.
Claims of the first class were those "directly resulting from
damage done on the high seas by Confederate cruisers during
the late rebellion, including vessels and cargoes attacked on the
high seas, although the loss or damage occurred within four
miles of the shore;" and clans of the second class were those
"for the payment of premiums for war risks, whether paid to
corporations, agents or individuals, after the sailing of any
Confederate cruiser."
As already stated, the defendants in error were adjudicated
bankrupts August 5, 1875, and were discharged July 20, 1877.
No steps were taken in the matter of their claim until after
the passage of the act of 1$82. The award was made by the
Court of Commissioners in December, 1886, that court finding
that the assignees of the defendants in error were entitled to
such award.
It is urged on behalf of the plaintiff in error that this finding, that the assignees were entitled to the amount of the
award on this claim, was final and not subject to review in
any other court or tribunal. In other words, it is insisted that
the decision of that court, both as respects the amount to be
paid on the claims and also as to who was entitled to receive
that amount, was final and irrevocable.
We are not impressed with this view In our opinion it is
unsound. The object for which the Court of Commissioners
of Alabama Claims was established was to pass upon the
claims which were presented to it for adjudication, and determine the amount to be paid by the United States on each
claim. Questions respecting the ownership of the respective
claims did not concern the court. Its function was performed
when it rendered its judgment on the merit of the claims. Its
judgments were final upon all parties, as respects the validity
of the claim, and the amount to be paid in satisfaction of it,
but there is nothing in the acts of Congress relating to this
matter, or in the reason of things, to indicate that the

OCTOBER TERf, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

judgment of the court, as to who were the owners of the
respective claims submitted, should be considered final and
irrevocable.
Passing now to the most important question in the case, we
are to consider whether the claim passed to- the assignees of
the defendants in error by virtue of the deed of assignment in
their bankruptcy proceedings, or, whether, on the other hand,
it never constituted a part of the estate until the passage of
the act of 1882. From the agreed statement of facts it is
ascertained that the assignments in bankruptcy were in the
usual form.
By section 5044, Rev Stat., it is provided that "all the
estate, real and personal, of the bankrupt, with all his deeds,
books and .papers relating thereto," shall be conveyed to the
assignee immediately after he is appointed and qualified. Section 5046 puts the assignee in the same position as regards all
manner and description of the bankrupt's property, (except
that specifically exempt,) as the bankrupt himself would have
occupied had no assignment been made. And subsequent
sections establish in the assignee the right to sue for and
recover all the bankrupt's "estate, debts and effects" in his
own name, and otherwise represent the bankrupt in every particular as respects the latter's property of whatever species or
description.
It must be conceded that the language of the Revised
Statutes relating to bankruptcy to which we have referred is
broad and comprehensive enough to embrace the whole property of the bankrupt. Was the claim in this case property, in
any sense of the term? We think it was. Who can doubt
but that the right to prosecute this claim before the Court of
Commissioners of Alabama Claims would have survived to
their legal representatives had the original claimants been dead
at the passage of the act of 18822e If so, the money recovered
would have been distributable as assets of the estate. While,
as already stated, there were no means of compelling Congress
to distribute the fund received in virtue of the Geneva award,
and while the claimant was remediless with respect to any
proceedings by which he might be able to retrench his losses,

WILLIAMS v. HEARD.
Opmion of the Court.

nevertheless there was at all times a moral obligation on the
part of the government to do justice to those who had suffered
in property As we have shown from the history of the proceedings leading up to the organization of the tribunal at
Geneva, these war premiums of insurance were recogmized by
the government of the United States as valid claims for which
satisfaction should be guaranteed. There was thus at all times
a possibility that the government would see that they were
paid. There was a possibility of their being at some time
valuable. They were rights growing out of property, rights,
it is true, that were not enforceable until after the passage of
the act of Congress for the distribution of the fund. But the
act of Congress did not create the rights. They had existed
at all times since the losses, occurred. They were created by
reason of losses having been suffered. All that the act of
Congress did was to provide a remedy for the enforcement of
the right.
The claims in this case differ very materially from a claim
for a disability pension, to which they are sought to be likened.
They are descendible; are a part of the estate of the original
claimants which, in case of their death, would pass to their
personal representatives and be distributable as assets, or
might have been devised by will while a claim for a pension
is personal, and not susceptible of passing by. will, or by operation of law, as personalty
Neither do we think that the money appropriated by Congress by the act of 1882 to pay these claims should be considered merely as a gratuity On this point we can do no better
than to quote the language of the learned judge of the court
below who delivered the dissenting opinion. He says "If
Congress intended by these statutes to appropriate the money
to certain persons as a gratuity, the only matters for the Court
of Commissioners to deal with would have been the persons
intended by the statutes, and the amounts given to each, and
it is difficult to see how a judicial court could reexamnne the
distribution made by the Court of Commissioners unless the
persons to whom that court awarded the money claimed and
received it in some representative capacity The judicial

OCTOBER TERMA,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

courts determine the ownership of the money awarded only
on the ground that it follows the ownership of the property
as compensation for which the awards were made. Congress
did not, however, in these statutes, specify the persons entitled
to receive the money otherwise than by describing the claims
to be admitted, except that it provided for the exclusion of
claims for the loss of property insured to the extent of the
indemnity received from the insurance, and that no claim
should be allowed 'in favor of any person not entitled at the
time of the loss to the protection of the United States in the
premises,' nor 'in favor of any person who did not at all
times during the late rebellion bear true allegiance to the
United States.'" 146 Mass. 554, 555.
We have authority in this court for the position we maintain. In Comegys v Vrasse, 1 Pet. 193, the controversy was
between a bankrupt and his assignees over a claim against the
government of Spain for insurance on various vessels and cargoes which had been condemned by the Spanish prize courts.
The case was this Vasse had been an underwriter on ships and
cargoes owned by citizens of the United States which were captured and carried into the ports of Spain, and, abandonments
having been made thereof to him, he paid the losses thus arising
prior to the year 1802. In that same year he became embarrassed and made an assignment under the bankrupt law of April
4, 1800. His certificate of discharge was dated May 28, 1802.
In his return of his property and effects to the commissioners,
which he was required to make by the act, he did not include this
claim against Spain, because it was not believed to have any
value, depending, as it did, merely on the discretion and pleasure of the Spanish government. By the treaty of 1819 with
Spain that government stipulated to pay five millions of dollars in full discharge of the unlawful seizures which she had
made, and the money was afterwards paid over. Under the
distribution of that fund the assignees in 1824 received a sum
amounting to over $8000, as a part of the bankrupt's estate.
Yasse brought suit to recover it from the assignees and recovered judgment in the Circuit Court, but on error this court
reversed that judgment and held that the claim for which sat-

WILLIAMS v. HEARD.
Opinion of the Court.

isfaction had been made was a part of the estate of the bankrupt in 1802, and therefore passed to the assignees under the
deed of assignment. The bankrupt act of 1800, under which
the case arose, was quite similar to the statute involved in this
case, providing that "all the estate, real and personal, of every
nature and description, to which the bankrupt might be entitled, either in law or in equity," should go to his assignee,
and the court held that those words were broad and comprehensive enough to cover every description of vested right and
interest attached to and growing out of property The opinion of the court was delivered by Mr. Justice Story In the
course of his remarks be said "It is not universally, though
it may ordinarily be one test of right, that it may be enforced
in a court of justice. Claims and debts due from a sovereign
are not ordinarily capable of being so enforced. Neither the
king of Great Britain nor the government of the United
States is suable in the ordinary courts of justice for debts due
2
It
by either, yet who will doubt that such debts are rights
does not follow, because an unjust sentence is irreversible, that
the party has lost all right to justice or all claim, upon principles of public law, to remuneration. With reference to mere
municipal law, he may be without remedy, but with reference
to principles of international law, he has a right both to the
justice of his own and the foreign sovereign." I Pet. 216.
Again, referring to the language of the bankrupt act of
1800, he said " All the estate, real and personal, of every
nature and description, in law or equity,' are broad enough to
cover every description of vested right and interest attached
to and gTowing out of property Under such words the whole
property of a testator would pass to his devisee. Whatever
the administrator would take, in case of intestacy, would seem
capable of passing by such words. It will not admit of question that the rights devolved upon Yasse by the abandonment
could, in case of his death, have passed to his personal representative, and when the money was received be distributable
as assets. Why, then, should it not be assets in the hands of
the assignees 2 Considering it in the light in which Lord
Rardwicke viewed it, as an equitable trust in the money, it is

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Opmion of the Court.

still an interest, or, at all events, a possibility coupled with an
interest." 1 Pet. 218, 219.
The principles of that case were applied in Minor v XA1etz,
16 Pet. 221, to the case of a claim for extra pay for services
rendered by a bankrupt as gauger at the port of Philadelphia,
which, although presented to Congress prior to his adjudication in bankruptcy, was not recognized by that body or satisfied until afterwards, the court holding that the claim passed
to the assignee as part of the bankrupt's estate, and that the
doctrine of donation did not apply
In Phelps v _McDonald, 99 U. S. 298, McDonald, who was
a British subject residing in the United States, was declared a
bankrupt in 1868, and the conveyance of his estate was made
in the usual form by the register to an assignee. At that time
he had a claim against the United States, of which the commission organized under the treaty of Washington took cognizance, and made an award for its payment. It was held
that such claim passed to the assignee. In the opinion of the
court, delivered by Mr. Justice Swayne, after referring to
Comegys v 'asse, and other cases of that nature, it was said
"There is no element of a donation in the payment ultimately
made in such cases. Nations, no more than individuals, make
gifts of money to foreign strangers. Nor is it material that
the claim cannot be enforced by a suit under municipal law
which authorizes such a proceeding. In most instances the
payment of the simplest debt of the sovereign depends wholly
upon his will and pleasure. The theory of the rule is that the
government is always ready and willing to pay promptly
whatever is due to the creditor.
It is enough that
the right exists when the transfer is made, no matter how
remote Qr uncertain the time of payment. The latter does
not affect the former.
If the thing be assigned, the
right to collect the proceeds adheres to it, and travels with it
whithersoever the property may go. They are inseparable.
Vested rights ad rem and in Pe -possibilities coupled with an
interest and claims growing out of property- pass to the
assignee." 99 U. S.303, 304. To the same effect are Eirwqn v.
United States, 97 U. S.392, Backman v -Lawson,109 U. S.659.

IN RE RAHIRER.
Syllabus.

There is nothing in United States v Weld, 127 U. S. 51, that
militates against the view herein presented. In that case it
was held that, as respects the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims to entertain the suit against the United States under
section 1066, Rev Stat., the claim must be regarded as growing out of the act of 1882, because that act furnished the
remedy by which the rights of the claimant might be enforced.
But that is an entirely different proposition from the one contended for here by the defendants in error, that the claim was
created by that act.
In our opinion this case falls within the principles of Comegys
v. Tasse and Phelps v MAcDonald, and the judgment of the
court below is
1?eversed, and the cause remanded for furter proceedings
not 'mnconsistent with th6W opm2on.
MR. JUsTIcE BRADLEY was not present at the argument, and
took no part in the decision.

re RAHRER, Petitioner.
rI
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 1529. Argued Marcb 17,1891.-Decided May 25, 1891.

The act of August 8, 1890, 26 Stat. 313, c. 728, enacting "that all fermented, distilled or other intoxicating liquors or liquids transported
into any State or Territory or remaining therein for use, consumption,
sale or storage therein, shall upon arrival in such State or Territory be
subject to the operation and effect of the laws of such State or Territory
enacted in the exercise of its police powers, to the same extent and in
the same manner as though such liquids or liquors had been produced in
such State or Territory, and shall not be exempt therefrom by reason of
being introdiuced therein in original packages or otherwise" is a valid and
constitutional exercise of the legislative power conferred upon Congress;
and, after that act took effect, such liquors or liquids, introduced into a
State or Territory from another State, whether in original packages or
otherwise, became subject to the operation of such of its then existing
VrOL. cxL-35

