OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

MARSH v. NICHOLS, SHEPARD & CO.
ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF CALHOUN

COUTflY,

STATE

OF

MCHIGAN.L.
No. 136. Argued January 6,1891.-Decided May ii, lb91b

A bill in equity in a state court, with jurisdiction over the parties, brought
to enforce the specific performance of a contract whereby an inventor
who, having taken out letters patent for his invention, agreed to transfer
an interest therein to the plaintiff, and proceedings thereunder involving
no question arising under the patent laws of the United States, and not
questioning the validity of the patent, or considering its construction,
or the patentability of the device, relate to subjects within the jurisdiction of that court; and its decree thereon raises no Fedejal question
for consideration here.

IN 1880, Elon A. Marsh had devised and applied for a patent
upon a valve gear for steam engines, and Nichols, Shepard &
Co., which is a corporation of the State of Michigan, contended
in this action, as hereafter set forth, that in that year, while
his application was pending in the Patent Office, Marsh agreed
with Nichols, an officer of the corporation, that Nichols was
to do certain things in exploiting the invention, in return for
which Marsh was to allow a shop right to the use of it, and
that Nichols performed his part of the agreement. Marsh
assigned an interest in the patent, before it issued, to Minard
La Fever, and they assigned an Interest to one Scott. All the
parties were citizens of Michigan.
December 25, 1880, the patent issued, No. 236,052, but
through an oversight it was not then signed by the Secretary
of the Interior. February 11, 1881, Nichols, Shepard & Co.
was notified of the issue of the patent, and a demand made
upon it to sign a license and pay a royalty if it desired to continue the use of the invention. June 9, 1881, Marsh, La Fever
and Scott filed their bill against Nichols, Shepard & Co. in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Michigan, alleging the issue of the patent and title in complainants, that they had granted a large number of licenses
for the use of the invention, and that the public, with the

MARSH v. NICHOLS, SHEPARD & CO.
Statement of the Case.

exception of Nichols, Shepard & Co., had acquiesced in complainants' rights, and charging infringement of the letters
patent "without the license or allowance and against the will
of your orators and in violation of their rights."
The defendant answered, denying that Marsh was the first
and original inventor of the improvement described in the
letters patent. and asserting that, in the specific form described,
it was of little or no value, and had been long known to the
general public, that defendant had instructed one of its workmen to overcome a defect in it, which had been done, and had
procured the improvement to be patented, and was making use
of the same, though not in large quantities; and set up various
alleged anticipating patents.
During the progress of this suit, it appeared that the supposed patent had not been signed by the Secretary of the Interior, and the Circuit Court on final hearing, March 5, 1883,
held that, for that reason, the patent was a nullity, though the
omission of the signature of the Secretary was accidental.
The patent had been signed pending the suit, February 24,
1882, but whether it was validated from that time was not
decided. .Marsh v lVic4ols, 15 Fed. Rep. 914. A decree was
accordingly entered, April 16, 1883, dismissing the bill. From
this decree Marsh and La Fever prosecuted an appeal to this
court on February 26, 1885, and Nichols, Shepard & Co. a
cross-appeal on March 11, 1885. The case was heard here
November 9, 1888, decided December 10, 1888, the crossappeal dismissed, and the decree of the Circuit Court affirmed.
.Mar v lVichols, 128 U S. 605.
On the 23d of April, 1883, Marsh, La Fever and Scott filed
a second bill of complaint in the same court, to which Nichols,
Shepard & Co. pleaded the former decree in bar, and on April
8, 1884, complainants dismissed the bill.
On November 25, 1884, a second patent, No. 308,567, was
issued relative to the same invention. March 21, 1885, Marsh
and La Fever filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Michigan against Nichols,
Shepard & Co., counting on the patents of 1880 and 1884, and
alleging infringement of both.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

Prior to this and on April 16, 1884, Nichols, Shepard &
Co. filed its bill in the Circuit Court for the County of Calhoun, Michigan, against Marsh, La Fever and Scott, which
in substance alleged that it was a corporation doing business
in said county, that it was building a certain class of engines,
called traction engines, upon which a reverse gear was desirable, and many devices therefor had been invented, that one
of the defendants, Marsh, claimed to have made an invention
for a reverse gear, for which he had applied for a patent, and
that in the spring and early summer of 1880, he (Marsh)
applied to the treasurer of said company, and exhibited to
hum this device, that Marsh was desirous of introducing his
device, and that after some negotiations a contract was made
whereby the complainant, for certain outlays of labor and
money and other consideration, was, if the device proved successful in actual use, thereafter to have the right to use the
device on any steam engine made by it, or under its direction,
without any further claim by Marsh against it, and that the
agreement was carried out by the complainant, that said
Marsh, having claimed to have obtained a patent thereon, bad
assigned one-half of the same to -Minard La Fever, and that
thereafter the two had assigned one-third interest to James
Scott, and that Marsh and La Fever and Scott, claiming that
the agreement did not secure Nichols, Shepard & Co. the
rights hereinbefore stated, bad previously filed their bill in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Michigan, in equity, praying for an injunction to restrain
complainant from manufacturing, using or selling said invention as secured by the letters patent, that complainant had
answered the bill, and denied the validity of the patent, that
considerable testimony was taken thereon showing the prior
state of the art, that it appeared therein that the paper which
the defendants claimed as a patent was not valid as-such, and
was not signed by the Secretary of the Interior at the time
said suit was begun, but had been signed subsequently thereto,
and that the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan, in equity, had entered a final
decree in said cause dismissing said bill of complaint. Coin-

MARSH v. NICHOLS, SHEPARD & 00.
Statement of the Case.

plainant also charged that defendants had caused to be introduced into the Congress of the United States bills granting
them a patent, but that no such bills had become laws, "and
that said defendants have no valid patent, and have no right
to prevent any person whatsoever from manufacturing said
device. Nevertheless, the said defendants represent to the
public that they have secured letters patent upon said device
and threaten to bring suits against this complainant and those
persons purchasing from it, and they further affirm that this
complainant has no right under and by virtue of the said
agreement between it and said Marsh to manufacture, use or
vend said device, and they thereby injure and harass complainant, and their said action, in so claiming to hold such
patent as aforesaid, and in claiming that complainant has no
right under and by said agreement, prevents persons desiring
engines of the class manufactured by complainant from purchasing the same of complainant, that defendants' claim to
the exclusive right to said device is wholly without foundation, and, even should the pending application for a patent be
granted, (now pending in the shape of bills before the Houses
of Congress,) complainant would still be entitled to manufacture and vend the same, and would be entitled to the protection and aid of this court to compel said defendants to carry
out and perform the said contract and refrain from interfering
with the acts of complainant done in pursuance of said contract,
and that until such patents shall have been granted complainant is entitled to the protection of this court to prevent and
restrain said defendants from falsely and maliciously representing that complainant is violating rights secured to them
by patent right, and from falsely and maliciously representing
that complainant did not in good faith enter into a contract
with said -Marsh, by which it became entitled to employ said
device on all engines thereafter manufactured by it, even
though said Marsh should procure a patent and become
entitled to protection in the exclusive use of said device as
against all other persons."
Plaintiff thereupon prayed for answer, but not on oath,
answer under oath being expressly waived, that defendants

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

might be ordered to refrain and desist from asserting that
complainant had not the full and complete right to make, use,
vend or put into practice or operation and use on any engine
made, sold, used or operated by it, the said device, in the
same form or style, or substantially the same form or style,
as that exhibited on an engine made in 1880, at the time of
its agreement with Elon A. Marsh, that defendants might be
ordered to desist and refrain from publishing or asserting that
it has any right to the exclusion of this complainant in and to
the said device, that defendants might be ordered and decreed
to specifically carry out the said original contract made between complainant and Elon A. Marsh, by which complainant
was to be permitted, if defendant M arsh should obtain a patent
on said device, to use, vend and employ said device on any or
all engines made at defendant's shop without molestation or
interference on the part of said Marsh, or any one who may
have become interested with him in the device or the patent
thereafter to be procured therefor; that an injunction might
be issued to Elon A. Marsh, Minard La Fever and James
Scott, directing them to abstain from interfering with complainant's use of said device at the present time, or in the
future, if a patent should hereafter be granted to them, for
process and general relief.
Defendants filed their answer admitting the invention and
the application for a patent, that complainant was a corporation engaged in business as alleged, and that Marsh desired
to place one of said devices on an engine to demonstrate its
superiority, but denied each and every allegation that any
contract for license was ever made, and 4lleged that Nichols,
Shepard & Co. refused to make such contract at that time,
and subsequently notified defendants that it would use the
invention regardless of any rights they might have by virtue
of any patent. Defendants admitted that they claimed a
valid patent, and averred that complainant had no rights
against it, admitted the litigation in the United States Circuit
Court, and alleged that the defence therein interposed by
Nichols, Shepard & Co. was the lack of novelty of the invention, and that the company did not allege any defence on the

MARSH v. NICHOLS, SHEPARD & CO.
Statement of the Case.

ground of license, and that the claim of Nichols, Shepard &
Co. of a license was not set up and alleged for a long period
nor until after that cause had been brought.
June 22, 1885, defendants filed a supplemental answer,
alleging as to the proceedings in the Circuit Court as follows
"And these defendants, for further answer, say that the
cause heretofore mentioned in their answer having been heard
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, in equity, between these defendants and
James Scott as complainants, and the said Nichols, Shepard
& Co., m which a decree was entered against these defendants,
has been by the defendants herein duly appealed to the Supreme
Court of the United States, and that the said court has, according to the rules of practice in such case, allowed said appeal,
and that thereby all of the questions involved in the decision
of said cause, including the validity of the letters patent on
which the same was founded, are now pending the decision of
the Supreme Court of the United States, and they further say
that the defendant in the said cause, Nichols, Shepard & Co.,
has also filed its claim of appeal in said cause to the said
Supreme Court of the United States, in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, in
equity, which said appeal has been allowed by the said Circuit
Court."
Defendants also alleged the pendency of another suit brought
in equity by them in the said Circuit Court on the same and
another patent. They also demurred for want of equity
Defendant Scott answered that he had no interest in the
matter. When the cause came. on for hearing, counsel for
defendants objected to the jurisdiction of the court on the
ground that the bill and answer raised the question of the
validity of certain letters patent of the United States, over
which the court had no jurisdiction, but the objection was
overruled. A certified copy of the record of the proceedings
in the United States Circuit Court, including the allowance of
the appeals by both parties to the Supreme Court, and the
letters patent Nos. 236,052 and 308,567, were introduced in
evidence among other things. And also -the proceedings on an

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

'interference declared in 1882 between an application of Marsh,
September 28, 1881, and a reissued patent to Hoag, who was
Nichols, Shepard & Company's superintendent, of November
27, 1881, for improvement in reversing gear for steam engines,
and finally determined September 5, 1884, in Marsh's favor.
On the 14th of September, 1885, the Calhoun Circuit Court
filed its findings, and on October 31, 1885, entered its decree
as follows That "the said court now here finds that the said
defendant Marsh, in the month of September, 1880, entered
into a contract with the said complainant, by the terms of
which contract complainant was to be permitted thereafter to
use, without claim on the part of said Marsh, on steam engines
manufactured by it, a certain invention relating to the valve
gear, which was thereafter, pursuant thereto, placed under the
superintendence of Marsh, upon an engine then in the yards
of the complainant, which was thereafter sent for exhibition
to the state fairs of both Illinois and Missouri.
"And the court further finds. that defendants La Fever and
Scott, as assigns of said Marsh, have become interested in said
invention since said contract was entered into, but that the
rights of complainant under said contract, according to its
tenor and effect, are superior and paramount to the rights of
said La Fever and Scott.
"And the court further finds that by the terms of the said
contract complainant was to do and perform in and about the
said device certain thing and conditions, all of which have
been done and performed by it, but that, on the contrary, the
said Marsh (and his assigns, the other defendants) have not
carried out and performed the same, in that they have denied
the existence of said contract and asserted rights and interfered
with and molested the complainant in the prosecution of its
business, contrary to the tenor and effect of the said contract.
"And therefore the court doth now order, adjudge and
decree that the said contract ought to be carried out and performed on the part of the said defendants, and doth order and
decree that the said defendants, Elon A. Marsh, Minard La
Fever and James Scott, do refrain and desist from asserting
that complainants have not the full and complete right to make,

]ARSH v. NICHOLS, SHEPARD & CO.
Statement of the Case.

use, vend and put into practice or operation the said invention
substantially in the same form and style as that exhibited on
the said engine made in 1880, about the time of the making of
said agreement and according to its terms.
"It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the said
defendants do desist and refrain from publishing or asserting,
contrary to the terms of said contract, that they have any
right to the exclusion of said complainant in and to the said
device.
"It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the said
contract made between complainant and Elon A. Marsh, by
the tenor and effect of which complainant was to be permitted
to use, vend and employ said device on all the engines made
by the complainant without molestation or interference on the
part of said Marsh or his assigns, by them and each of them
be specifically carried out and performed.
"It is further ordered and decreed, therefore, that the writ
of injunction of this court may issue to the said Elon A.
Marsh, Minard La Fever and James Scott, directing them to
abstain, and perpetually enjoining them and each of them,
from in anywise interfering with complainant's manufacture,
sale and use of said-device according to the terms of said
contract."
Thereupon the defendants appealed to the Supreme Court
of the State of Michigan, and that court on June 10, 1886,
affirmed the decree of the court below, with costs. A motion
for a rehearing having been made, the Supreme Court, July
21, 1886, entered a further order, in the following terms
"This cause having been heretofore brought to this court
by appeal from the Circuit Court for the county of Calhoun,
in chancery, and the decree of the Circuit Court for the county
of Calhoun, in chancery, having been heretofore affirmed, and
a motion having been made for a rehearing, and this court
having further considered the same, it is now here further
ordered, adjudged and decreed that such rehearing be denied,
but that the decree be amended so that the defendants shall
make, execute and deliver to the said complainant, within
forty days after the entry of this order in the Circuit Court

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

for the county of Calhoun, a release releasing the said complainant, Nichols, Shepard & Company, from all claim, right
or demand on the part of them, the said Elon A. Marsh,
Minard La Fever and James Scott, by reason of the manufacture, use or sale heretofore of the said invention relating to
valve gear in the form and style as exhibited on the said
engine described in the decree in this cause, and also releasing
the said Nichols, Shepard & Company from all claims, rights
or demands on behalf of them, the said Elon A. Marsh, Minard
La Fever and James Scott, arising from their making, using or
vending the said device hereafter. It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that this order be remitted to the Circuit
Court for the county of Calhoun, in chancery, and be there
made a decree of said cause in that court."
The record having gone down, the Calhoun Circuit Court
entered the following decree
"This cause having been heretofore taken by appeal to the
Supreme Court, and the decree heretofore rendered in this
court having been affirmed and amended in the Supreme
Court, and the cause having been remitted to this court with
an order directing the said amendment be entered by this
court as a decree of this court, it is new here, in pursuance
of the said order of the Supreme Court, ordered, adjudged
and decreed that the said defendants make, execute and deliver to the complainant, within forty days after the entry of
this order, a release releasing the said complainant, Nichols,
Shepard & Co., from all claim, right or demand on the part
of them, the said Elon A. Marsh, Minard La Fever, and James
Scott, by reason of the manufacture., use or sale heretofore of
the said invention relating to valve gear in the form and style
as exhibited on the said engine described in the decree in this
cause, and also releasing the said Nichols, Shepard & Co. from
all claims, rights or demands on behalf of them, the said Elon
A. Marsh, Minard La Fever and James Scott, arising from
their making, using or vending the said device hereafter."
A writ of error was then sued out from this court, the
following errors being assigned in the petition for the writ:
"(1.) That it appears therein that the exclusive jurisdiction

MARSH v. NICHOLS, SHEPARD & CO.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Supreme Court of the United States, on the appeal by
these defendants, over the same question and-the same parties,
was drawn in question and was denied.
"(2.) That full faith and credit, at the request of these
defendants, was not .given to the proceedings, record and
appeal appearing in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Michigan concerning the same
issues and between the same parties.
"(3.) That the right and authority under the Constitution
and laws of the United States of the defendants to prosecute
their said appeal from the said Circuit Court of the United
States was drawn in question and denied.
"(4.) That the right and authority under the Constitution
and laws of the United States authorizing the issue of letters
patent to inventors, and especially the right and authority
exercised by said defendants under letters patent No. 236,052,
issued in pursuance of said laws, was drawn in question and
'denied."
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Michigan will be found
reported m 61 Mich. 509.
.M Don -ff. Dzcmson, for plaintiffs in error. .Mr 1R. A.
Parkerwas with him on the brief.
.Mr Charles F Benton for defendant in error.
MR. Cm F JiusTicE FuLr.E,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The bill was filedin the Circuit Court of Calhoun County for
the specific performance by defendants below, of an alleged
contract between Marsh and the plaintiff below, by which
.the latter was to be permitted, if Marsh obtained a patent on
the improvement in question, to make, use, vend and employ
said device on any or all engines made at its shops without
molestation or interference, and to restrain the defendants
below from asserting that plaintiff did not have the full and
-complete right to make, use, sell or operate the device, or that
they had any right in the device to the exclusion of plaintiff,
VOL. CXL-23

OCTOBER TERMif, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

and the decree granted the relief accordingly, which decree
was subsequently amended by the Supreme Court of Michigan
so as to require the defendants below to make, execute and
deliver to plaintiff a release from all claim, right or demand
on their part, by reason of the manufacture, use or sale of the
said invention by the plaintiff theretofore or thereafter.
The Supreme Court held that the agreement set up by the
plaintiff was convincingly established by the evidence; and
that the suit not being brought to determine any question
arising under the patent laws, but merely to enforce a contract to transfer an inventor's right, was not one in which the
courts of the United States had particular jurisdiction, that
the bill filed in the United States Circuit Court, March 21,
1885, being later than the one in hand, needed not to be considered, that as to the bill filed Tune 9, 1881, in the United
States Circuit Court, and which had been dismissed before
this suit was brought, but was afterwards taken to this court
on appeal, which appeal was then pending, there was nothing
in it to prevent the maintenance of this suit, since it was
strictly a bill under the patent laws and nothing else, while
this bill could not have been filed in that court between these
parties, who were citizens of Michigan, and it was very questionable whether it could have been framed as a proper crossbill in that case, and the court further held that the plaintiff
was not estopped by that litigation, for if the defendants had
not a good patent, plaintiff was not called upon to put in any
defence which admitted one, and could not be deprived of the
right to vindicate in another suit such right as could not have
been adequately enforced in that litigation.
It is settled that in order to justify a writ of error from this
court to review the judgment of a state court, the record
must show that the judgment rested upon the disposition of a
Federal question.
In this case the state court did not decide any question
arising under the patent laws, nor did the judgment require,
to sustain it, any such decision. Neither the validity of the
patent, nor its construction, nor the patentability of the device, was brought under consideration, even collaterally.

IARSH v. NICHOLS, SHEPARD & Co.
Opinion of the Court.

In the language of .-1r. Chief Justice Taney, Milson v
Sandford, 10 How 99, 101, the dispute "does not arise under
any act of Congress, nor does the decision depend upon the
construction of any law in relation to patents. It arises out
of the contract stated in the bill, and there is no act of Congress providing for or regulating contracts of this kind. The.
rights of the parties depend altogether upon common law and
equity principles."
Under such circumstances the correctness of a decision of
the highest court of a State upon the merits, based upon
the existence and effect of an agreement such as that set up
in this case, and not necessarily passing upon any question
under the patent laws, cannot be reviewed by this court on
writ of error. -Dale Tile Comtany v Hyatt, 125 U. S. 46.
In that case it was held that an action upon an agreement in
writing, by which, in consideration of a license from the
patentee to make and sell the invention, the licensee acknowledges the validity of the patent, stipulates that the patentee
may obtain the reissue thereof, and promises to pay certain
royalties so long as the patent shall not have been adjudged
invalid, is not a case arising under the patent laws of the
United States, and is within the jurisdiction of the state
courts, and reference is made by Mdr. Justice Gray, delivering
the opinion of the court, to a series of decisions sustaining that
conclusion. Thus in Brown v Shannon, 20 How 55, it was
decided that a bill in equity in the Circuit Court of the United
States by the owner of letters patent to enforce a contract
for the use of the patent, and in lfilson v Sandford, 10 How,
99, to set aside such a contract because the defendant had notcomplied with its terms, was not within the acts of Congress
by which an appeal to this court was allowable in cases arising
under the patent laws, without regard to the value of the
matter in controversy
So in Albrigkt v Teas, 106 U. S. 613, where a suit was
brought in a state court, the parties thereto being citizens of
the same State, for moneys alleged to be due to the plaintiff
under a contract, whereby certain letters patent granted to
him were transferred to the defendant, it was held that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

suit, not involving the validity or the construction of the
patents, was not one arising under a law of the United States,
and could not be removed to the Circuit Court.
In Xachne Company v Sknner, 139 U. S.293, in an action for breach of contract in refusing to account and pay for
a certain patented invention, the Supreme Court of New York
adjudged upon the trial that plaintiff in error had agreed to
use defendant in error's device upon all its machines, and also
that it had in fact used them or their mechanical equivalent,
but the court in general term, in affirming the judgment,
found it unnecessary to determine whether the plaintiff in
error had actually made use of the device or its equivalent,
and held it to be liable upon the ground that it had agreed to
use it upon all the machines, and was therefore bound to pay
its value as fixed by the referee. The judgment was affirmed
by the Court of Appeals without an opinion, and the writ of
error from this court was dismissed, because it was apparent
that the case might properly have been determined on a
ground broad enough to sustain the judgment without resort
to a Federal question.
It has also been decided that an action in0 the Circuit Court
by a patentee for breach of an agreement of the licensee to
make and sell the patented article and to pay royalties, in
which the validity and the infringement of the patent are
controverted, is a case "touching patent rights," of which
this court has appellate jurisdiction, under section 699 of the
Revised Statutes, without regard to the sum or value in dispute. St. Paul Plow WYorks v Starling,127 U. S. 376. And
-attention was in that case called to the fact that the language
applied to this subject in the patent act of 1836, under which
the cases of Wilson v &an4ford and B'own v Shannon,
supra, were decided, was that used in that act in defining the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in patent cases, namely,
"actions, suits, controversies and cases arising under any law
of the United States granting or confirming to inventors the
exclusive rights to their inventions or discoveries" (5 Stat.
124), while by the act of 1870, the words were, "in any action,
suit, controversy or case, at law or in equity, touching patent

MARSH v. NICHOLS, SHEPARD & CO.
Opimon of the Court.

rights" (16 Stat. 207), and.that this language was carried
forward into the corresponding section of the Revised Statutes.
The contract in controversy did not involve the existence
nor the scope of the monopoly conferred by the letters patent.
The decree might indeed furnish a defence to an action for the
unauthorized appropriation of the invention, but that would
not bring a case lying purely in contract within the rule applicable when the validity or extent of the patent is directly
in issue. The restraint granted by the decree was the consequence of sustaining the contract, and the effect it might have
did not in itself deprive the state court of jurisdiction over
the subject matter.
But it is argued that the writ of error should be maintained
in view of the original litigation in the Circuit Court and the
pendency of the appeal in this court when the decree of the
state court was rendered. It is said that the interference
sought to be enjoined was the suit which, though then determined, was afterwards appealed and the prosecution of the
appeal itself, and that the state court had no jurisdiction to
compel a settlement of an infringement case brought in a
United States court prior to the action of the state court, or
to enjoin further proceedings in the nature of an appeal to
this court, and that the validity of an authority exercised
under the United States was decided against, or a right
claimed under the laws of the United States was denied, by
the decree. We do not think the position tenable.
At the time this bill was filed it had been decided by the
Circuit Court of the United States that the alleged patent was
void, and no appeal had then been taken. We do not understand that Nichols, Shepard & Co. set up the fact of the
institution and disposal of the prior suit as a ground on which
it sought relief, but that it claimed that whether the patent
was or was not valid, it had bought and paid for the right to
use the device in question. The subject matter of this suit
differed from the subject matter of that suit, and nothing in
this suit prevented plaintiffs in error from prosecuting their
appeal, which they did with the result that this court held

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinon of the Court.

their patent to be void. -Marsh v N'ihols, 128 U S. 605.
And it was not only held that the patent was void, because of
the omission of the signature of the Secretary of the Interior,
but as the signature was attached after the commencement of
the suit, that no accounting for profits earned subsequently
could be claimed therein, as such accounting could be demanded only where the infringement complained of took place
previously and continued afterwards.
The bill in the Circuit Court had been dismissed. So long
as that decree stood the bill could have no operation upon
the suit in the state court. If the decree were vacated by
reason of the appeal, the pendency of the latter could not in
itself exclude the state court from the right to adjudicate
upon the matters over which it had jurisdiction and award
the relief it was competent to administer.
What the state of case might have been if this court had
reversed the decision of the Circuit Court, sustained the patent
and directed an accounting, we are not called upon to consider, nor to define the extent of the risk incurred by the
appellee in proceeding to a decree before the appeal was disposed of.
Plaintiffs in error had the right to take their appeal from
the final decree of the Circuit Court, and this right was not
denied or attempted to be denied by the state court, although
it is ingeniously argued that the decree of that tribunal may
be so construed as to produce that result. But so far from
this being intended, the Supreme Court of Michigan held
that the subject matter of the two suits was so different that
the prosecution of the one did not interfere with the prosecution of the other. The view thus entertained was wholly
inconsistent with any attempt to interfere with the plaintiffs
in error in the prosecution of their appeal, or any denial of
their rights in respect thereof.
Whether or not a release given by plaintiffs in error under
the state court decree before the appeal had been heard would
have been allowed to operate as a release of errors, is a question that does not arise. That decree was not brought forward on the hearing of the appeal, and was not considered

MIARSH v. NICHOLS, SHEPARD & CO.

359

Opinion of the Court.

by the court in arriving at its conclusions. If such would
have been the effect of this release if given as directed, and
if in the opinion of this court that effect could properly have
been recognized, then the appeal might have been disposed
of on that ground, but if the contention of counsel were
correct, it is not to be doubted that the judgment of this
court would have been such as the circumstances and the law
required.
Undoubtedly, Nichols, Shepard & Co. might have set up
the contract as a defence to the charge of infringement, and
it was for the state court to determine what weight the circumstance that it did not do so had upon the question whether
any such contract had ever been made. Moreover, it is
claimed by defendant in error that to use the license as a
defence would not have given it the affirmative relief to which
it was entitled, because the contract covered a subject matter
broader in its scope than either the first or second patent.
At all events, it was not set up and was not passed upon by
the Circuit Court or by this court, and requnres no further
mention, as we are not considering the case upon the merits.
And the same remark may be made as to the interference
proceedings, which are referred to in argument as not showing the assertion of the alleged contract.
In our judgment this suit was not one arising under the
patent laws of the United States, nor did the decree involve
the denial of an authority exercised, or of any title, right,
privilege or immunity claimed, under the Constitution or
laws of the United States; and therefore, there being no Federal question, the writ of error must be
Dz)smsssed.

