8M0

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

THE E. A. PACKER, SCULLY Claimant.
APPEA,

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TH.
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 286. Argued April 3, 6,1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

The general rule, which prevails in cases tried by a Circuit Court without a
jury, that the trial court is bound to find every fact material to its conelusion of law, and that a refusal to do so, if properly excepted to, is
ground for reversal, prevails also in admiralty causes.
The libel in this case set forth, as ground for recovery a collision between
the barge Cross Creek in tow by the tug Packer, and the barge Atlanta,
in tow by the tug Wolverton, whereby the latter barge and its cargo,
suffered material injury. The main question at issue was as to which
tug was in fault. After the Circuit Court had made its findings of fact,
the claimant submitted requests for several additional findings, which
the judge declined to find otherwise than as he had already found.
Among these was the following "The porting of the Wolverton's
wheel, when she was about 200 feet from the Packer, was a change of
four or five points from her course," It appeared from the evidenCe
brought up with the exceptions that such was the fact. Held, that the
claimant was entitled to a finding in regard to this point.

THIS was a suit in admiralty instituted by the New Jersey
Lighterage Company, appellee, owner of the barge Atlanta,
against the steam tug Dr. John Wolverton, which had the
Atlanta in tow, and also against the steam tug E. A. Packer,
to recover damages for a collision between the Atlanta and a

barge lashed alongside and in tow of the Packer, on her port
side, known as Cross Creek Barge, No. 5, which occurred in
the afternoon of October 25, 1880, near the mouth of the East
River in the harbor of New York.

Service never having been

obtained upon the Wolverton, the case proceeded against the
Packer, and in the District Court a decree was granted dismissing the libel upon the ground that the Wolverton was

solely at fault for the collision.

20 Fed. Rep. 327.

Upon

appeal to the Circuit Court, this decree was reversed upon the
ground that the collision was partly at least the fault of the,

-Packer, and that, under the rulings of this court, the libellant

THE E. A. PACKER.
Statement of the Case.

was entitled to recover its entire damages against her, which
amounted, with interest, to $5404.31, for which a decree was
rendered against her.
Pursuant to the act of February 16, 1875, 18 Stat. 315, c.'77,
the following facts were found by the Circuit Court
"First. That on the 25th day of October, 1880, the libellant
was the owner of the barge Atlanta and was a common carrier
of a cargo on said barge, as alleged in the libel.
"Second. That on that day, in the afternoon, a collision
occurred between said barge and the barge Cross Creek, No. 5,
then m tow of the steam tug Packer.
"Third. That the barge Atlanta and her cargo were on
that day taken in tow by the steam tug Wolverton at Roberts'
Stores in the East River, to be towed to the Long Dock, Jersey
City, and were towed astern of said tug by a hawser of one
hundred and fifty feet in length between the tug and barge.
"Fourth. That on that day the tug Packer was bound from
the North River into the East River, having in tow on her
port side the barge Cross Creek, No. 5, loaded with about 450
tons of coal, the barge projecting beyond the bow of the tug.
"Fifth. As the Wolverton, with her tow, was crossing the
mouth of the East River the Packer, with her tow, was heading around the Battery into the East River, passing the New
York shore opposite the Barge Office, nearly two hundred
yards away
"Sixth. That the tide in the East River was ebb and at
about full strength. The Wolverton and her tow were going
with the tide about seven miles an hour and the Packer and
her tow were proceeding against the tide at a speed of about
two miles an hour.
"Seventh. That the Packer and her tow had come so far
around from the North River before seeing the Wolverton as
to be m the ebb tide coming out of the East River, and when
she saw her was heading up against that tide and was about
200 yards out from the shore opposite the Barge Office.
"Eighth. The vessels saw each other when about 500 yards
apart, and at that time the course of the Wolverton was about
N. W by N. and the course of the Packer was E. by N., and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

as they approached each other the Packer had the Wolverton
on her starboard bow and the Wolverton had the Packer on
her port bow, the Wolverton being further out in the river
from the New York shore than the Packer, and the vessels
being upon crossing courses converging toward the New York
shore.
"Ninth. As soon as the Packer saw the Wolverton she
blew two blasts of her steam whistle. She was then under a
starboard wheel and making in somewhat towards the end of
the piers, but upon signalling the Wolverton she starboarded
her wheel still more. The Wolverton made no reply to the
Packer's signals, but kept on her course without abating speed
until within about 200 feet. The Packer then blew two more
whistles and reversed her engines, and the Wolverton ported
her wheel. The Wolverton passed the bow of the Packer and
her tow, but the libellant's barge was unable to do so, and her
port side came into collision with the bow of the Packer's
tow
"Tenth. At the time the Wolverton ported her wheel danger
of collision was imminent and a collision seemed unavoidable.
"Eleventh. There was nothing in the river to interfere with
the navigation of either vessel. The collision occurred about
400 or 500 feet off the ends of the piers and just below the
slip of the South Ferry
"Twelfth. There was no local usage of navigation applicable to the situation of the vessels when they discovered each
other.
"Thirteenth. That between the tide of the East River and
the North River there is an eddy which extends out about
400 feet from the Barge Office, and the Packer had passed
through this eddy and reached the ebb tide, which struck on
the port bow of her tow and swung the vessels still further off
shore before her pilot saw the Wolverton.
"Fourteenth. The libellant's barge was in all respects properly navigated. By reason of the collision the barge and
cargo sustained serious injury"
The following conclusions of-law are found
"First. The two tugs being on crossing courses, it was the

THE E. A. PACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

duty of the Packer, having the Wolverton on her starboard
hand, to keep out of the way, and the duty of the Wolverton
to keep her course.
"Second. It was the duty of the Packer to port her wheel
and stop and reverse her engine in time to avoid the collision.
"Third. The libellant is entitled to recover against the
Packer the damages sustained by the collision."
The course of the Wolverton, as stated in the eighth finding,
was subsequently changed by the Circuit Judge from N.W
by lN. to W.l.W
From the decree entered upon this finding an appeal was
taken by the owner of the Packer to this court.
.Afr Edward D .XeCarthy (with whom was 2r de Z.
Berser on the brief), for appellant.
.r Robert D. Benedict for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE

BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

This court has repeatedly held that under the act of February 16, 1875, 18 Stat. 315, "to facilitate the disposition of
cases in the Supreme Court of the United States, and for other
purposes," we are no longer at liberty to pass upon disputed
questions of fact, but are bound to accept the findings of the
Circuit Court as conclusive, and are limited to a determination
of questions of law and to the validity of such rulings, excepted to at the time, as may be presented by a bill of exceptions prepared as in actions at law The Abbotsford, 98 U S.
440, The Benefactor, 102 U. S. 214, The Clara, 102 U. S.
200, Te Adriatic, 103 U S. 730, The Connemara,108 U. S.
352, 360, Watts v Camors, 115 U. S. 353, 363, Tlie Gazelle
and Cargo, 128 U. S. 474. In the case of The Abbotsford it
was held that the only rulings which could be presented for
review here by bill of exceptions were those made upon questions of law, following in this particular a multitude of prior
rulings under analogous statutes. This was also affirmed in
The Annie Ltndseky, 104: U. S. 185, with an additional remark

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opion of the Court.

by Mr. Justice Woods, that "where the Circuit Court has
}passecZ on all the tssues we cannot listen to complaints that it
has refused to find certain facts which it was asked to find, or
has found certain other facts which the weight of the testimony did not warrant."
It does not, however, necessarily follow that this court is
bound to determine the case upon the precise facts found by
the Circuit Court, if, in its opinion, such findings are ambiguous, contradictory or incomplete, or fail to establish a satisfactory basis for a decision. The Circuit Court is bound to
pass upon and find every material and ultimate fact necessary
to a proper determination of the question of liability, and, in
case of refusal to make such finding, an exception may be
taken thereto, which can be considered by this court upon
appeal. It cannot be that this court is concluded by a finding,
for instance, of a single material fact tending to show fault on
the part of one vessel, when there is uncontradicted evidence
of other facts, which show either that this fault did not contribute to the collision, or that there were contributing faults
upon the part of the other vessel which might make a case for
a division of damages. If a Circuit Court could find ao afact
that a collision was due to the fault of one vessel, an appeal to
this court would be useless, and unless the findings set forth
all the material facts, the ultimate finding of fault becomes
more or less a finding of a fact, when it should be a legal
inference from other facts.
The question is by no means a new one in this court. In
The Francts TVzght, 105 U. S. 381, 387, it was said by Chief
Justice Waite that "if the Circuit Court neglects, or refuses,
on request, to make a finding one way or the other on a question of fact, material to the determination of the cause, when
evidence has been adduced on the subject, an exception to
such refusal taken in time and properly presented by a bill of
exceptions may be considered here on appeal. So, too, if the
court, against remonstrance, finds a material fact which is not
supported by any evidence whatever, and exception is taken,
a bill of exceptions may be used to bring up for review the
ruling in that particular. In the one case the refusal to find

THE E. A. PACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

would be equivalent to a ruling that the fact was immaterial,
and in the other, that there was some evidence to prove what
is found when in truth there was none. Both these are questions of law, and proper subjects for review in an appellate
court." It was indicated that the bill of exceptions "must
be prepared as in actions at law" where it is used, "not to
draw the whole matter into examination again," but only separate and distinct points, and those of law This practice was
approved in .ferehants' Ins. Co. v. Allen, 121 U S. 67. In
Die John H. Pearson,121 U. S. 469, the question arose as to
what was meant by the term "Northern Passage" from Gibraltar to New York, and it was held that the court below
should have ascertained from the evidence what passages
there were which vessels were accustomed to take, and then
determine which of them the vessel was allowed by its contract to choose as the northern, and the decree was reversed
and the case remanded for further proceedings upon this
ground.
There is no practice under this statute which is peculiar to
courts of admiralty The rule is general, that wherever the
trial court finds the facts and the conclusions of law therefrom
it is bound to find every fact material to its conclusion, and a
refusal to do so, if propely excepted to, is a ground for reversal. Thus, in cases tried by the court without a jury, under
Rev Stat. sections 649 and 700, the findings of the Circuit
Court are conclusive upon this court, and the power of this
court to review extends only to the sufficiency of the facts
found to support the judgment, Tyng v G-mnnell, 92 U. S. 467,
and if not sufficient, the case may be remanded for trial upon
other issues involved therein. Ex _parte Frenc , 91 U. S 423.
The findings of the court under these sections are treated as a
special verdict, and are gauged by the rules applicable to them,
NYorr2s v Jacksoz, 9 Wall. 125, Copelin v. Insurance Co., 9
Wall. 461, 467, Supemvtsors v Xennzcott, 103 U. S. 554, and,
as was said in Graham v BRayne, 18 How 60, 63, "if a special verdict be ambiguous or imperfect -if
it find but the evidence of facts, and not the facts themselves, or finds but part
of the facts in issue, and is silent as to others, it is a mistrial,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

and .the court of error must order a venire doe novo. They can
render no judgment on an imperfect verdict, or case stated."
Under a similar method of procedure in several of the
States it is held that the findings must contain all the facts
and circumstances necessary to a proper determination of the
questions involved, and in default thereof, the judgment of
the court below will be reversed, and the case sent back for a
new trial. Wood v 1a Rue, 9 Michigan, 158, Howerter v.
.Kelly, 23 Michigan, 337, Adams v. 6'ampnon, 31 Michigan,
233, Briggs v Brushaber,43 Michigan, 330, Bates v Wilbur,
10 Wisconsin, 415, Addleman v Erwin, 6 Indiana, 494.
The facts found in the present case are substantially, that
the Wolverton and her tow were bound from Roberts' Stores,
in the East River, upon the Brooklyn side, to the Long Dock,
m Jersey City, upon a W.1N.W course, and at a speed of
about seven miles an hour. The Packer, with her barge
alongside, constituting in fact one vessel, was heading around
the Battery into the East River, and at the time she first saw
the Wolverton was upon a course E. by N., and heading
against a strong tide, at a speed of about two miles an hour.
The two vessels made each other about five hundred yards
apart. From this statement of their respective headings it is
quite evident, and the court also finds as a fact, that they
were upon crossing courses, that the Packer had the Wolverton on her starboard side, and was bound, under the 19th
Rule of ยง 4233, to keep out of her way
In fulfilling this obligation, however, she was entitled to
act, within the limitations imposed by the requirements of
good seamanship, upon the judgment of her master, and
to put her helm to port or starboard, and there was a correlative duty, no less imperative, on the part of the Wolverton
"to keep her course." Rule 23. The Sea Gull, 23 Wall. 165,
176, -New York &c.Steamship Co. v Rumball, 21 How 372,
384, Thie Adriatic, 107 U. S. 512, 518. While this duty of
avoidance is ordinarily performed by porting and passing
under the stern of the other vessel, and while this is evidently,
under ordinary circumstances, the safer and more prudent
course, cases not infrequently occur where good seamanship

TE

E. A. PACKER%.

Opinion of the Court.

sanctions, if it does not require, that the manceuvre shall be
executed by starboarding and crossing the bows of the
approaching vessel. Of course, in doing this the steamer
takes the risk that the approaching vessel, while fulfilling her
own obligation of keeping her course, may reach the point of
intersection before she has passed it herself, and hence at
night, or in thick weather, the maneuvre would be likely to
be attended with great danger. In the present case, however,
there were circumstances which indicate that the selection of
this course may have been such an exercise of discretion upon
the part of the master as was not inconsistent with sound
judgment and good seamanship. It was broad daylight, the
weather was clear, and a careful lookout could not fail to hear
the signals of an approaching vessel, and to estimate properly
her course, her bearings and her distance. There was a
strong tide ebbing out of the East River, and the Packer was
making her way slowly and with some apparent difficulty
against it. It was obviously to her advantage to keep as near
to the piers, heading as she was directly against the tide, as
it was possible to do, since such a decided porting as would be
necessary to avoid the Wolverton and her tow would have
compelled her to take the full force of the tide upon her port
side, and exposed her to a strong outward drift, as well as
to the probability of the Atlanta sagging down upon her.
Whether the starboarding of the Packer was a fault or not
would depend largely upon the question whether, assuming
that the Wolverton kept her course and maintained her then
rate of. speed, either vessel would pass the point of intersection
before the other reached it. If it were clear that no collision
would have occurred had the Wolverton kept her course, then
the starboarding of the Packer was not a fault, since the
point of intersection would either be ahead or astern of the
Packer. IBut if such starboarding was likely to involve risk
of a collision, then of course it was a fault.
It was suggested upon the argument that there was a rule
of the supervising inspectors, making it obligatory upon a
crossing steamer to avoid the one having the right of way by
porting her helm in all cases. But no such rule is incorporated

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

in the record or in the briefs, and it is not a regulation of
which we can take judicial notice. But even if such rule were
proved, it is by no means clear that the circumstances of this
case would not bring it within the exception contained in the
24th Rule of "special circumstances" requiring a departure
from the general regulations.
Whether the Packer was guilty of fault in starboarding
or not, the duty of the Wolverton was clear. She was bound
(1) to keep her course, and (2) to check her speed, if there was
apparent risk of a collision, and, if necessary to avoid Unnmediate danger, to stop. She did neither. The 8th finding is
that "the vessels saw each other when about 500 yards
apart," and the 9th, that "as soon as the Packer saw the
Wolverton she blew two blasts of her steam whistle. She
was then under a starboard wheel and making in somewhat
toward the end of the piers." There is no finding whether the
signals of the Packer were heard by the Wolverton or not,
but it is fairly inferable that if the whistles were blown at a
distance of 500 yards they would be or ought to have been
heard, and under such circumstances the porting of the Wolverton was a gross fault, unless it can be excused by the imminence of the peril. The Co swa, 9 Wall. 630. The 10th finding bears upon this point and is as follows: "At the time the
Wolverton ported her helm, danger of collision was imminent
and a collision seemed unavoidable." It is difficult to give a
satisfactory interpretation to this finding. While it is a familiar law of collision that a wrong order given in extrens, or,
as some of the authorities say, "to ease the blow," will not be
treated as a fault, such principle manifestly has reference to a
collision between the vessel guilty of the wrong order and the
approaching vessel. Now no such collision took place in this
case, since it was the Atlanta and not the Wolverton which
received the blow It would seem, too, the finding that the
collision "seemed unavoidable" could not have had reference
to a collision between the Packer and the Atlanta, since the
latter was 150 feet astern of the Wolverton, and to bring
about a collision between her and the Packer, or the Packer's
tow, (which being lashed alongside may be treated as identi-

THE E. k. PACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

cal with the Packer,) it was necessary for the Wolverton to
cross from the starboard to the port bow of the Packer, and
to drag the Atlanta under the bow of the latter. Indeed, it
seems impossible to exonerate the Wolverton in view of the
other finding, that the vessels saw each other when about 500
yards apart, and that, as soon as the Packer saw the Wolverton, that is, at this distance of 500 yards, she blew two
blasts of her steam whistle. Hearing this signal as she did,
or as she was bound to do, the porting of the Wolverton must
almost of necessity have brought about a collision. The whistle was a signal to her that porting was the one thing she
must not do. If, in fact, as testified by her pilot, the Wolverton ported four or five points before the collision took place,
it not only disposes of the 10th finding but shows that the
collision was largely, if not wholly, the fault of the Wolverton.
The Wolverton seems also to have been at fault for excessive speed. If the officer in charge were satisfied that the signals of the Packer and her apparent starboarding were an
error and involved a risk of collision, it was his duty, under
:Rule 21, to slacken speed before crossing her bows, or, if necessary, to stop, or even to reverse, if it could be done without
danger to tow This rule was applied by the House of Lords
to a collision between crossing vessels in the recent case of
Yrw .Memnon, 62 Law Times (N. S.), 84:, S. C. 6 Asp. Mar.
Law Cases, 488, wherein it was declared to be the duty of the
vessel entitled to keep her course to comply with the rule as
to slackening speed, or stopping and reversing, if necessary,
and if she does not do so, the burden is upon her to show that
to continue her speed was in fact the best and most seamanlike manceuvre under the circumstances. It is not easy to see
how, under any view of the facts, the Wolverton can be exonerated from fault in this particular.
It appears from the bill of exceptions that, after the Circuit
Court had- made its findings of fact in this case, eight additional findings were submitted by the claimant, which the
Ciluit judge declined to find otherwise than he had already
found, except with regard to the compass course of the WolVOL. c=--24

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Concurring Opinion. Field, J.

verton, which he had found to be N.W by N. by nstake.
We have already held that the Circuit Court is bound to find
all such facts as are material and necessary to a correct determmation of the question of liability involved. Upon examination of these proposed findings in connection with the evidence
set out in the bill of exceptions, we think that most of them
are immaterial, or are covered by the findings actually made.
The sixth, however, is important, and reads as follows: "The
porting of the Wolverton's wheel when she was about 200 feet
from the Packer was a change of four or five points from her
course." We think the claimant was entitled to a finding in
regard to this point. It would also have been more satisfactory if the court bad found the number of points the Packer
swung under the order to starboard given "upon signalling the
WolvertoA," as found in the ninth finding. But as no request
was made for a finding upon this point, and no exception
taken to the omission, it is now too late for the claimant to
demand it.
T7e decree of the court below will breversed,
e
and the case
remanded orfurther proceedings?.?b conforrmnty with this
opn-zn.

In re WOOD, Petitioner.
.APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UINITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1581. Decided May 11, 1891, and reported ante, page 278.

Concurringopnlon of .Mr Justice Field.
I CONCUR in the judgment in this case, but not in all the

views expressed in the opinion. I adhere to what I said in
my dissent in the case of .Nealv Delaware, 103 U. S. 370, 405,
409, that there is nothing in the late amendments to the Constitution, the Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth, which
xeqmres that colored citizens shall be summoned on juries,

