KNEELAND v. LAWRENCE.
Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court, or any justice or judge thereof, in its or his discretion, to admit the defendant to bail, after the service of the
citation, in such amount as may be fixed.
The motion of defendant for leave to file a petition for a
writ of mandamus, and the motion of the United States to set
aside the supersedeas and stay of proceedings, are both of
Densed.
them
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

did not sit in this case or take any

part in its decision.

KN'TEELAND
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT

v. LAWRENCE.
COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 333. Argued April 21, 1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

A bona fide purchaser, before maturity, of coupon bonds of a railroad
company payable to bearer, takes them freed from any equities that
might have been set up against the original holder; and the burden of
proof is on him who assails the bona fides of such purchase.
Tested by this rule appellant's case must fail.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.M' John 21. Butler for appellant.
XA George T Porterfor appellees.
MR. JUSTICE LMAA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is one of a large number involving litigation
growing out of the foreclosure of a mortgage upon the Toledo,
Cincinnati and St. Louis Railroad of Ohio, Indiana and Illinois.
The facts necessary to an understanding of the question at
issue, briefly stated, are as follows The Frankfort and Kokomo
Railroad was a road of about twenty-five miles in length, runVOL. CXL-14

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Opimon of the Court.

ning from Frankfort to Kokomo, Indiana. On the 1st of
January, 1879, the company owning the road issued two
hundred bonds of $1000 each, bearing seven per cent interest,
payable semi-annually and due in thirty years, and, to secure
the payment thereof, executed a mortgage upon its property
to the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company Subsequently, by
consolidation, that road became a part of the road of the
Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railroad Company of Indiana
and Illinois. On the 23d of July, 1881, the latter company
issued 3000 bonds of $1000 each, bearing six per cent semiannual interest, and due July 1, 1921, and, to secure their payment, executed to the Central Trust Company of New York
and Thomas A. Hendricks a mortgage on that portion of its
road running from Kokomo, Indiana, to East St. Louis, Illinois. Two hundred of these bonds were set aside to trustees,
to be exchanged at par value for the original Frankfort and
Kokomo bonds. One hundred and thirty of those bonds were
so exchanged, the holders of the other seventy of them refusing to make the exchange.
Default having been made in the payment of interest upon
the new bonds, the mortgage was foreclosed, the foreclosure
decree being entered November 12, 1885. By this decree it
was found that seventy of the Frankfort and Kokomo bonds
were outstanding, and that there was due thereon the sum of
$85,108.12, and it was. decreed that that sum should be paid
out of the proceeds of the foreclosure sale, next after the payment of the court costs and master's fees. The foreclosure
sale took place December 30, 1885, and the appellant herein,
Sylvester H. Kneeland, became the purchaser of the entire line
of road from Kokomo to East St. Louis. The sale was confirmed on the 5th of February, 1886, and on the 10th of
March following a deed was executed and delivered to the
purchaser.
Under an order of court of December 30, 1885, it was provided that all claims which should be filed in court against the
railway, or the fund arising from the sale thereof, should be
referred to W P Fishback, a master of the court. On the 23d
of July, 1886, the master reported that the appellees herein,

KNEELAND v. LAWRENCE.
Opinion of the Court.

Lawrence Brothers & Co., had produced six Frankfort and
Kokomo bonds (numbers given) with coupons attached, that
said bonds were owned by S. Newton Smith, but were held
by Lawrence Brothers & Co., as collateral security for advances made by them to Smith, and that there was due on
said bonds the sum of $8883.16, to which should be added
$1.26 per day from July 22, 1886, until they should be paid.
Exceptions were filed to the master's report by the appellant, but they were overruled, the report was confirmed and
a decree was rendered m accordance therewith. An appeal
from that decree brings the case here.
The ground upon which payment of these bonds was resisted, and, therefore, the ground upon which this appeal is
based, is, that they are not part of the seventy bonds that
were not exchanged for Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis
bonds, but are part of the one hundred and thirty bonds that
were so exchanged, and have been, therefore, fully paid and
satisfied.
The evidence before the master, and which is set out in this
record, shows that the appellees, as brokers, purchased these
six bonds for Smith from George William Ballou & Co. Ballou & Co. had obtained possession of three of the bonds from
Edward Le Conte, giving him in exchange three Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis bonds, two income bonds, one of $1000
and the other of $500, and thirty shares of stock in the
Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis road. Where they obtained
the other three the record does not show
The argument for the appellant is, that Ballou & Co. were
the financial agents of the Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis
road, and that, therefore, it must be presumed that the Frankfort and Kokomo bonds held by them were a portion of the
one hundred and thirty bonds that had been exchanged for a
like number of Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis bonds, and
were, therefore, fully paid and satisfied.
We cannot assent. to this proposition. The record shows
that the Central Trust Company of New York and Thomas
A. Hendricks were the agents of the Toledo, Cincinnati and
St. Louis road for the exchange of two hundred of its bonds

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

for the Frankfort and Kokomo bonds, and nowhere in the
record is there any intimation that Ballou & Co. had any connection whatever with such agency Admitting, as is claimed
by the appellant, that Ballon & Co. were the financial agents
of the Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis Company, it does not
follow by any means that they might not have been in the
bona jide possession of a portion, or even all, of the seventy
unexchanged Frankfort and iKokomo bonds. There was certainly nothing to prevent Ballou & Co. from purchasing all of
those seventy bonds from the holders of them and disposing
of them as they saw fit. The three bonds which they obtained from Le Conte cannot be considered as having been
exchanged for a like number of Toledo, Cincinnati and St.
Louis bonds at par value, for they not only gave Le Conte a
like number of bonds, but, as an inducement to such transfer,
gave him, in addition, two income bonds amounting to $1500,
and thirty shares of stock. Such a transaction is more in the
nature of a negotiation and sale than an exchange, as contemplated by the original arrangement for an exchange of bonds.
In fact, there is nothing whatever to show, or even to indicate, that these six boinds were not part of the seventy bonds
that were not exchanged, but were given a priority of lien by
the foreclosure decree. On the contrary, the -best of reasons
eiist for holding that they were not part of the one hundred
and thirty bonds, for, according to the statement of counsel
for appellant, which is borne out by the record in Eneeland v
Amerman Loan Co., 136 U. S. 89, those one hundred and
thirty bonds were taken up and cancelled, whereas these six
bonds do not appear to have ever been cancelled. They must
have been, therefore, a part of the seventy bonds. The evidence shows clearly that Smith was a bona jfde purchaser of
them, and it does not show that the appellees are not bona
ide holders of them. Coupon bonds like those in suit, payable to bearer, pass by delivery; and a bona ftde purchaser of
them before maturity takes them freed from any equities that
might have been set up against the original holders of them.
The burden of proof is on him who assails the bona ides of
such purchase. 2fXurray v Lardner, 2 Wall. 110, 121, and
cases there cited.

DWIGHT v. MfERRITT.
Opinion of the Court.

Tested by this rule, the appellant's case must fail. As
already stated, there is nothing to show that these six bonds
are not part of the seventy unexohanged Frankfort and
ides on the
Kokomo bonds, and nothing to show any malaf
part of Smith and the appellees in obtaining possession of
Decree afflrmed.
them.
was not present at the argument, and
took no part in the decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

DWIGHT v. MERRITT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 281. Argued April 2,1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.
N

In an action against a collector to recover back an alleged excess of duties
imposed upon an importation of iron rails, the duty having been imposed
upon them as "iron bars for railroads" under Rev. Stat. ยง 2504, Schedule
E, and the importer claiming that they were subject to duty as "wrought
scrap iron" under the same schedule, the burden of proof is on the
plaintiff to satisfy the jury that they had been in actual use before exportation, and that fact must be proved in order to recover.
The dutiable classification of articles imported must be ascertained by an
examination of them, and not by their description iii the invoice.
The statutes codified in the Revised Statutes and repealed with their enactment may be referred to in order to interpret the meaning of obscure
and ambiguous phrases in the revision, but not when the meamng is
clear and free from doubt.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
21r Edwz B. Smith for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr Asswtant Atorney GeneraZ Mauy for defendant in
error.
MR.

JUSTICE Li.A

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action by an importer, the testator of the
present plaintiffs in error, against a late collector of the port

