OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

proval than to say that it covers all matters within the discretion of the officer rendering the account. The exception to
this item is therefore overruled.
3. We have already held that a fee is properly chargeable
for the acknowledgment of a recognizance, but that such
acknowledgment is a single act, though it be made by principal and sureties, and that but a single fee of 25 cents is
chargeable therefor.

Unwted States v Ewzng, ante, 164.

These accounts must be allowed, with the exception of the
fees charged for the acknowledgment of more than one person
in each case.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed, and the
case remanded with snstructtons to enter a new judgment
'in conformzty to thw ojpn on.
MR.

JUsTICE BRADLEY

did not sit in this case, and took no

part m its decision.

CLUETT v. CLAFLIN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 174. Submitted April 21,1891. -Decided

May 11, 1891.

letters patent No. 156,880, granted November 17, 1874, to Robert Cluett
for an inprovement in shirts are void for want of invention.

THIS was a bill in equity to recover for the infringement of
letters patent No. 156,880, granted November 17, 1874, to Robert Cluett for an improvement in shirts. In his specification the
patentee stated the object of his invention to be "first, to avoid
the folding in of the edges of the bosom, and the raw edges
and loose threads thereof, which disfigure the bosom when so
folded in, second, to stay the bosom, rendering it firmer in
itself, and less likely to rumple or break; third, to avoid
wrinkling of the bosom by the unevenness or fulling up of any
one of the layers composing the bosom in any part thereof,

CLUETT v. CLAFLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

each and all of these three features having reference to the
preparatory stages of manufacture, but to be completed in the
bosom as attached to the shirt."
"Its construction consists in preparing and fixing the two
or more layers in place smoothly in relation to each other, and
then binding the edge with a folded strip of cloth like the
bosom front, cut bias (or diagonally) or straight from the
piece, so as to turn the curves of the bosom without tendency
to gather on one side, and so as to suit round, square or any
other shaped bosom, this binding extending entirely around
the bosom (except at the neck and yoke) and holding the
parts firmly in place by a line of stitches before the bosom is
inserted in or placed on or attached to the body of the shirt,
and finally attaching the bosom so prepared to the shirt body,
in the manner hereinafter shown. The invention consists in
the shirt bosom or shirt and bosom, so constructed, and not m
the bosom alone."
His claims were as follows
"1. In combination with a shirt body, a shirt bosom bound
on the outer edge with a folded and stitched binding, and
attached to the shirt body by a separate lining of stitching
through such binding.
"2. The shirt bosom S composed of two or more thicknesses of cloth, B L, bound on the outer edge with the binding B", and secured to the shirt front F by the line of
stitching 0."
Upon the hearing m the Circuit Court the invention was
held to be invalid for want of patentable novelty, and the bill
was dismissed. 24 Blatchford, 412, and 30 Fed. Rep. 921.
Plaintiff thereupon appealed to this court.
Mr S. A. Duncan and Mt J A. Skilton for appellants.
3r Davzd Tim for appellees.
Mi.

JusTicE BnowN delivered the opinion of the court.

A large amount of testimony was t'aken in this case in the
Circuit Court, but all that we find it necessary to consider

OCTOBER TERI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

lies within a very narrow compass. Stripped of its verbiage,
this patent consists simply of a shirt bosom bound at its edges
and stitched through its binding to the body of the shirt.
The custom of binding Jhe cut edges of cloth, either for ornament or to prevent ravelling, is almost as old as the art of
making garments. Indeed, the plaintiffs in this case frankly
admit that "it was a matter of common experience to apply
narrow bindings in various ways, in fact to apply 'folded
bindings,' that is, bindings with their edges turned in under
the body of the binding, to the edges of various parts of different parts of wearing apparel, to conceal the raw edges from
sight and protect them from being frayed out. Moreover, as
in the case of the Marr shirt, the free edges of ' flies' designed
to be buttoned on to the shirt front had had their edges finished up (potentially at least, as suggested in the Marr patent)
by some sort of binding. Dickies, also, had been made whose
edges had been provided with a folded binding. Firemen's
shirts, also, had been made of flannel, on the bosom part of
which an extra thickness, cut out shield-shaped, had been
secured by sewing through its edges."
Their. expert Benjamin admits that detached bosoms or
dickies had been bound with a strip of material folded on
their outer edge and stitched to the bosom by a line of stitching passing through the inner edge of the outer fold of the
binding, the bosom and the outer edge of the binding. Indeed, the patentee himself, who was sworn as a witness,
admitted that his firm as early as 1869 or 1870 manufactured
and sold shield-shaped detachable bosoms, or dickies, the raw
edges of which had been bound by folded and stitched binding.
It has also been the custom, time out of mind, to attach the
bosom to the body of the shirt by a row of stitching, and in
this connection plaintiffs admit that it was not new in the
spring of 1874 (the established date of this invention) to make
dress shirts by securing a linen bosom to the body of the shirt
by a row of stitches passing through the edge of the bosom.
What then was there left for Oluett to invent9 Nothing,
apparently, but a separate line of stitches through the binding
attaching the bosom to the shirt. But whether a separate line

