rATISTED v. BUSTER.
Opinion of the Court.

New Jersey, the court having primary jurisdiction, was not a
party to the proceedings in the New York court, and was not
authoritatively represented therein, the judgment, even it
responsive to the issues tendered by the pleadings, was not an
adjudication binding upon him, or the estate m his hands.
For these reasons the decree of the court below was correct,
and it is
.Affirmed.

IALSTED v. BUSTER.
ERROR TO THE DIsTRICr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TH
DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINEIA.
go. 325. Argued April 17, 20,1891.-Decided Mayi,

1891.

The act of the legislature of Virginia of March 22, 1842, relating to lands
west of the Allegheny Mountains which had become vested in the Commonwealth by reason of the non-payment of taxes, did not operate to
transfer such forfeited lands to the holder of an" inclusive grant" witin
the limits of which grant they were situated, but whose patent was subsequent in date to that of the patentees of the forfeited lands.
Bvjan v. Willard, 21 West Va. 65, is followed, not only because it settles the
law of the highest court of a State upon a question of title to real estate
within its boundaries, which is identical with the question involved here,
but also because the decision is correct.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.Hr Abram Bvrlew for plaintiff in error.
Hr J F Brown for defendants in error. Hir W
was with him on the brief.
Ymi. JUSTICE

rollohan

BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

This case has been in this court once before. A judgment
in favor of the defendants was reversed on account of an error

in pleading.
ralstedv Buster, 119 U. S. 341. On its return
to the trial court the pleadings were amended, and the case
VOL. CXL-18

OCTOBER TERI,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

proceeded to trial before a jury The judgment and verdict
were a second time in favor of defendants, and again plaintiff
alleges error.
The facts are these Upon an entry made April 12, 1785,
and a survey in pursuance thereof, August 24, 1794, a patent
issued, on July 22, 1795, from the Commonwealth of Virginia,
for two thousand acres, to Albert Gallatin and Savary De Valcoulon. Subsequently, upon entries made October 24, 1794,
and January 25, 1795, and a survey in pursuance thereof,
April 14, 1795, a patent was issued, on the first day of January, 1796, to Benjamin Martin, assignee of William Wilson,
by the Commonwealth of Virginia, for eighty-five thousand
six hundred acres. This patent was what is known as an inclusive grant, and contained this language "But it is always
to be understood that the survey upon which this grant is
founded includes 6786 acres of prior claims, (exclusive of the
above quantity of 85,600 acres,) which, having a preference
by law to the warrants and rights upon which the grant is
founded, liberty is reserved that the same shall be firm and
valid and may be carried into grant or grants, and this grant
shall be no bar in either law or equity to the confirmation of
the title or titles to the same, as before mentioned and reserved,
with its appurtenances." This form of grant was authorized
by an act of the general assembly of Virginia passed June 2,
1788, as follows:
"Whereas sundry surveys have been made in different parts
of this Commonwealth, which include in the general courses
thereof sundry smaller tracts of prior claimants, and which
m the certificates granted by the surveyors of the respective
counties are reserved to such claimants; and the Governor or
Chief Magistrate is not authorized by law to issue grants upon
such certificates of surveys, for remedy whereof "I. Be it enacted by the General Assembly, that it shall and
may be lawful for the Governor to issue grants, with reservations of claims to lands included within such surveys, anything
in any law to the contrary notwithstanding." 2 Rev Code
Virginia, 434.
Grants of this character have been before this court as well

HALSTED v. BUSTER.
Opinion of the Court.

as the highest courts of Virginia, West Virginia and Kentucky,
their validity sustained by each of those courts, and the construction to be given to them adjudged to be, that no title or
right passes to the patentee to any surveyed lands thus reserved
within the limits of the exterior boundaries. Scott v Ratl,fe,
5 Pet. 81, Armstrong v. Aforrill, 14 Wall. 120; Hopkins v
IVard, 6 Munf. (Va.) 38, Nfichols v. Covey, 4 Rand. (Va.) 365,
Trotter v. -Yewton, 30 Gratt. (Va.) 582, Patnk v -Dryekn,
10 W Va. 387, Bryan v Willard, 21 W Va. 65, Ufadison v
Owens, 6 Litt. Sel. Gas. (Ky.) 281.
It appears that the Gallatin tract, whose survey was prior
to the Martin survey and patent, was, partially at least, within
the exterior limits of the latter gant. By the rule, therefore,
established by these decisions, the land within the Gallatin
survey was excluded from the Martin grant. No title thereto,
not even a conditional or inchoate one, passed by the Martin
patent. Subsequently, and before the year 1842, the Gallatin
lands were forfeited to the Commonwealth of Virginia in consequence of the non-payment of taxes. On March 22, 1842,
the general assembly of Virginia passed an act, the third section of which is as follows
"And be it further enacted, That all right, title and interest,
which shall be vested in the commonwealth in any lands or
lots lying west of the Allegheny Mountains, by reason of the
non-payment of' the taxes heretofore due thereon, or which
may become due on or before the first day of January next,
or of the failure of the owner or owners thereof to cause the
same to be entered on the books of the commissioner of the
proper counties, and have the same charged with taxes according to law, by virtue of the provisions of the several acts of
assembly heretofore enacted, in reference to delinquent and
omitted lands, shall be and the same are hereby absolutely
transferred to and vested in any person or persons, (other than
those for whose default the same may have been forfeited,
their heirs or devisees,) for so much as such person or persons
may have just title or claim to, legal or equitable, claimed,
held or derived from or under any grant of the commonwealth,
bearing date previous to the 1st day of January, 1843, who

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

shall have discharged all taxes, duly assessed and charged
against hun or them upon such lands, and all taxes that ought
to have been assessed or charged thereon, from the time he,
she or they acquired title thereto, whether legal or equitable
Provded, That nothing in this section contained, shall be
construed to impair the right or title of any person or persons,
who shall bona fide claim said land by title, legal or equitable,
derived from the commonwealth, on which the taxes have been
fully paid up according to law, but m all such cases the parties
shall be left to the strength of their titles respectively" Acts
of 1841 and 1842, c. 13, p. 13.
The plaintiff claims under the Martin grant; and insists that
by virtue of this statute and the prior forfeiture of the Gallatin
lands, the title to so much of the latter as is within the exterior
limits of the Martin survey was perfected in him. The defendants claim by virtue of tax deeds made by the Commonwealth of Virginia, through its proper officer. As the plaintiff
must recover on the strength of his title, the single question
presented is, whether the act of 1842 operated to transfer the
forfeited Gallatin lands within the Martin survey to theholders
of that grant 9 This question must be answered in the negative. It might be sufficient to refer to the case of Bryan v
Willard, 21 W Va. 65. In that case the precise question was
before the Supreme Court of Appeals of that State, and decided against those claiming under the Martin grant. The
amount of land in controversy here is not the whole of the
Gallatin tract of two thousand acres, or all of that within
the Martin survey, but only a small portion thereof, to wit,
about one hundred acres. And m the case of Bryan v Tillard,the controversy was between parties claiming under the
Martin grant and others claiming under the Gallatin grant, in
respect to another portion of the- latter tract also within the
Martin survey The cases are, therefore, identical. The same
points were made and the same questions presented, with one
exception, to be hereafter noticed, and as the title to real
estate and tne construction of deeds and statutes in respect
thereto is a matter of local law, this court, while exercising
an independent jurisdiction, follows as a rule the decisions of

HIALSTED v. BUSTER.
Opinion of the Court.

the highest court of the State. Burgess v Seligman, 107
U. S. 20.
The opinion of Judge Snyder in the case of Bryan v TRllard, in which all the other judges concurred, reviews the
authorities and fully discusses the question, and if it were a
new and entirely open one, and no weight were to be given to
the expression of opinion from the highest court of the State,
it would be difficult to resist the force of his argument.
In view of this opinion we shall content ourselves with
simply stating our conclusions. No title or claim of any kind,
legal or equitable, passed to the patentee, Martin, to any portion of the Gallatin tract. In Nichols v Covey, ub?. su2ra, the
syllabus is as follows. "Where a patent is issued in pursuance
of the act of 1788," "which includes in its general courses, a
prior claim, it does not pass to the patentee the title of the
Commonwealth in and to the lands covered by such prior
claim, subject only to the title, whatever it may be, in the
prior claimant, but, if that title is only a prior entry, and
becomes vacated by neglect to survey and return the plat, any
one may lay a warrant on the same, as in other cases of
vacant and unappropriated lands." Patrzk v D'ryden, 10
W Va. 387, Armstrong v. _Morrill, 14 Wall. 120. The only
parties entitled to the benefit of the act of 1842 are those who
have "just title or claim," legal or equitable, under some grant
of the Commonwealth. As the patentee had no title or claim,
legal or equitable, to these excluded lands, it follows that the
act was not one for his benefit.
In order to distinguish this case from that of Bryan v
Willard, and to avoid the force of that decision, counsel for
plaintiff in error contends that by the Martin patent the area
of excluded lands, as expressed therein, was 6786 acres, and
that as there was nothing in evidence in that case to show
the extent of prior claims, the presumption was that these
Gallatin lands were excluded, while, in this case, he insists
that he has shown other prior claims within the exterior
boundaries amounting to eight or nine thousand acres, independently of the Gallatm lands, but the evidence does not
sustain his contention. The survey of Thomas Edgar's claim,

.OOTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

to which he refers, (six thousand seven hundred and eighteen
acres of which, according to the testimony, lie within the
Martin grant,) was not completed until April 20, 1796, which
was after the issue of the patent, and, therefore, that tract
could not come within the description therein of excluded
lands. There is nothing to distinguish the case from that of
Bryan v Willard.
Because the views expressed in Bryan v Millard are correct, because it is the decision of the highest court of a State
upon the question of the title to real estate within its boundaries, and because that case is identical with this, the judgment
of the trial court is
Afflrmd.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE BRAD IEY took no part
in the consideration and decision of this case.

In re WOOD, Petitioner.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1581.

Argued Aprii 10, 1891. -Decided

May 11, 1891.

Mhen the statutes of a State do not exclude persons of African descent
from serving as grand or petit jurors, a person accused in a state court
of crime, who desires to avail himself of the fact that they were so
excluded in the selection of the grand jury which found the indictment
against him, or of the petit jury which tried him, should make the objection in the state court during the trial, and, if overruled, should take the
question for decision to the highest court to which a writ of error could
be sued out from this court; and failing to do so, he cannot have the
adverse decision of the state court reviewed by a Circuit Court of the
United States upon a writ of habeas corpus.
The question raised in this case could have been raised and determined by
the trial court in New York, on a motion to set aside the indictment.
It was not intended by Congress that Circuit Courts of the United States
should, by writs of habeas coiopus, obstruct the ordinary administration
of the criminal laws of the State through its own tribunals.

THE

case, as stated by the court, was as follows

