IN RE SHIBUYA JUGIRO.
Statement of the Case.

I78e SHIBUYA JUGIRO, Petitioner.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1632.

Argued and submitted April 10, 1891.- Decided IfMy 11,1891.

After final judgment entered here, affirming a judgment of a Circuit Court
of the United States denying an application for a writ of habeas coijus,
in favor of a person convicted of murder by a state court, and held in
custody by the authorities of the State, the restraint upon the unrisdic
tion of the state court terminates, and that court has power to proceed
in the case without waiting for the mandate to be sent down from this
court to the Circuit Court.
In re IMood, Petitioner,ante, 278, affirmed and applied.
Several other grounds set forth in the application and stated in the opinion
raise no constitutional question.

Tim case as stated by the court was as follows
The appellant was convicted, December 3, 1889, by the
name of Schihiok Jugigo, in the Court of Oyer and Terminer
for the County of New York, State of New York, of the
crime of murder, and, on the 16th day of the same month,
was sentenced to suffer death. The sentence was stayed by
an appeal to the Court of Appeals of New York until December 1, 1890. The judgment was affirmed on the 8th of October, 1890, that court saying "The record does not contain a
single exception, and we are unable to perceive any reason for
bringing the appeal, except to delay the execution of the
judgment. The evidence established beyond any doubt the
commission of the crime, and the charge of the judge was fair
and properly instructed the jury upon the law needful for
their guidance. There can be no pretence for saying that the
ends of justice require a new trial, and the judgment should
be affirmed." People v Jugzgio, [Qv,. Jugiro,] 123 N. Y 630.
Prior to such affirmance, namely, on the 9th of September,
1890, Jugiro filed in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of New York a petition for a writ of
habeas corpus to inquire into the cause of his detention, claim-

OCTOBER TER-M, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

ing that the judgment and sentence were void under the Constitution of the United States. The writ was refused, and,
upon appeal, the judgment of that court was affirmed here,
November 24, 1890, upon the authority of An 9'v .enimli-,
136 U. S. 436.
On the 1st day of December, 1890, -the mandate of this
court not having then been issued, - Jugiro was arraigned before the Court of Oyer and Terminer, and required to show
cause why a day should not be fixed for the infliction upon him
of the punishment of death. He objected that, "by force of section '766 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, any proceedings to carry out said judgment or sentence in said Court
of Oyer and Terminer, or by or under the authority of the
State of New York, before final judgment should be entered
in said proceedings in said Circuit Court, were null and void."
This objection was disregarded, and the court sentenced him
to suffer death in the week commencing January 12, 1891,
and accordingly remanded him for that purpose to the custody
of the agent and warden at the state prison at Sing Sing.
On the 7th of January, 1891, he filed in the Circuit Court
of the United States a second petition for a writ of habeas co?pus, in which, after setting out most of the above facts, he
stated that, whereas by the constitution and laws of New
York he was entitled, upon his trial, to counsel, and appeared
upon his arraignment without counsel, and was asked by the
court if he desired the aid of counsel, and answered that he
did, the court thereupon assigned him as counsel, who afterwards took part in all the proceedings upon the indictment,
directing and controlling the defence, "one not admitted or
qualified to practise as an attorney or counsellor at law in the
courts of said State, of which petitioner was at all times in all
the proceedings aforesaid ignorant, and thereby petitioner was
deprived of due process of law for his defence,'" that petitioner, being an alien subject of the Emperor of Japan, unacquainted with the laws of New York, and unable to speak
or understand the English language, was obliged to rely
wholly upon said counsel for his defence, that the indictment
alleged that the wound inflicted by the petitioner was in the

IN RE SHIBUYA JUGIRO.
Statement of the Case.

breast of one Mura Commi, the person alleged to have been
murdered, that the proof was that the wound was not in the
breast, but in the neck, from behind, that having no notice
by the indictment that be would be called upon to explain a
wound from behind, such allegation was misleading; that the
proof was a substantial variance from the indictment, " which
petitioner is advised would have constituted a valid objection
to the admission of evidence, the reception of a verdict and in
arrest of judgment, had his rights in that behalf been duly asserted by lawful counsel," but that "all the occasions having
passed when, in the lawful course of procedure, the objection
could be taken, not ha-vng been duly taken, reserved and presented, petitioner has suffered great prejudice, and in other
respects his rights upon his trial were prejudiced and sacrificed
by the said assignment of counsel," and that "now, so it is,
that neither by motion for a new trial nor by motion in arrest
of judgment nor otherwise, under the limitations of the laws
of the State of New York, can any court of said State take
cognizance or afford petitioner any relief in the premises, and
petitioner has no remedy or protection in respect thereto,
except under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States, as an additional guarantee to the constitution of the State of New York, for his protection upon
an equality with all in the enjoyment of his right 9to the assist-4
ance of counsel, and to due process of law in that respect."
It also alleged that the judgment and sentence and*his
restraint under them were without due process of law in this
That the indictment "was found by a grand jury in the Court
of General Sessions of the Peace in and for the city and
county of New York, at the November term of said court,
1889, that from the list and panel of jurors from which said
goTand jury was selected and drawn, certain and all persons of
the color and race of petitioner, who is a native-born subject
of the Emperor of Japan and dark brown in color, were excluded on account of their said race and color, although many
persons of said race and color, naturalized citizens of the
United States, and in all respects qualified to serve as such
jurors, were, at the time of the selection of said list and panel,

OCTOBER TERM\f, 1890.
Opmlon of the Court.

resident and being within said city and county, and who
might otherwise have been drawn to serve upon said grand
jury, and the same is true of the petit jury drawn to try the
said indictment," that "petitioner was ignorant of said facts
in respect to said jurors at all the times aforesaid," that
"now, so it is, that neither by motion for a new trial nor by
motion in arrest of judgment nor otherwise, under the limitations of the laws of the State of New York, can any court of
said State take cogmzance of or afford petitioner any relief in
the premises, and petitioner has no remedy or protection in
respect thereto, except under the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States, for his right to the
equal protection and due process of law in the premises."
This application for the writ of habeas corpus was also
denied, and the appellant claims, upon this appeal from the
order denying the writ, that the indictment and the proceedings under it, as well as his detention, are in violation of the
Constitution of the United States, and void.
.Ar .Roger X. SSerman, for the petitioner, submitted on his
brief.
.Mr Isaac II. _aynard opposing. .Mr, M ares F Tabor,
Attorney General of the State of New York, was on the
lrief.
I=ARi-x, after stating the case, delivered the
MR. JusncE
opinion of the court.

As Jugn'o's first written application for a writ of habeas
coipus alleged that he was restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution of the United States, no question is
made, as, indeed, none could be made, as to his right under
the existing statutes of the United States, relating to habeas
corpus, to have prosecuted an appeal- to this court from the
order of the Circuit Court denying that application. Rev
Stat. §§ 51, 152, 753, 761, 762, 763, 764, 765, Act of March
3, 1885, c. 353, 23 Stat. 437. But it is contended that the

IN RE SIIIBUYA JUGIRO.
Opinion of the Court.

appeal from that order deprived the state court of all power
to proceed, not only while the appeal was pending and undetermined here, but until the mandate of this court was sent
down to the Circuit Court. This contention is supposed to be
justified by section 766 of the Revised Statutes, limiting the
power of the state court before and after an appeal from the
final decision in a Circuit Court of the United States of an
application for a writ of htabeas corpus by one alleged to be
restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution, or
some law or treaty, of the United States. Rev Stat. §§ 763,
761, 765. The latter section provides "Pending the proceedings or appeal in the cases mentioned in the three preceding
sections, and until final judgment therein, and after final
judgment of discharge, any proceeding against the person
so imprisoned or confined or restrained of his liberty, in any
state court, or by or under the authority of any State, for
any matter so heard and determined, or in process of being
heard and determined, under such writ of habeas co2_pus, shall
be deemed null and void."
Of the object of the statute there can be no doubt. It was
-in
cases where the applicant was held in custody under the
authority of a state court or by the authority of a State - to
stay the hands of such court or State, while the question as to
whether his detention was in violation of the Constitution,
laws or treaties of the United States was being examined by
the courts of the Union having jurisdiction in the premises.
But the jurisdiction of the state court in the cases specified is
restrained only pending the proceedings in the courts of the
United States, and until final judgment therein. This court,
on the 24th of November, 1890 - as we know from our own
records- affirmed, with costs, the judgment of the Circuit
Court denying the former application for a writ of h abeas
vwus. That was its final judgment in the premises, because
it determined the whole controversy involved in the appeal.
Upon its rendition,, the appeal from the judgment of the
Circuit Court was no longer pending in this court, and
nothing remained that was "in process of being heard and
determined." It was none the less a final disposition of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

case because, at a subsequent date, under the rules and practice of this court, a mandate would be sent down to the
,Circuit Court, showing the fact of the affirmance of its judgment. It is true that it would have been more appropriate
and orderly if the state court had deferred final action until
our mandate was issued and filed in the Circuit Court. But,
in view of the words of the statute, we do not feel authorized
to hold that the order in the state court of December 1, 1890Y
made after the final judgment here of iNovember 24, 1890,
was absolutely void. As Congress went no further than t&
stay the hands of the state court "until final judgment," we
cannot superadd the condition that the filing of the mandate
in the Circuit Court -in case of the mere affirmance of its
judgment refusing a writ of labeas coTpus-is absolutely
necessary before the state court can proceed in the execution.
of the judgment of conviction. Of course, where, in such a,
case as this, the state court proceeds, after final judgment is
entered here on the appeal of the person imprisoned or held
in custody, but before our mandate goes down to the Circuit
Court, it .does so at the risk that its orders may be controlled
and, if need be, annulled, if this court, during the term,
should suspend or set aside its own judgment. While it is not
difficult to perceive that serious complications may sometimes,
arise where the state court acts with undue haste, and proceeds before the mandate of this court is issued, and without
any special application being made therefor, we do not feel
at liberty to declare its action, taken after and in conformity
with the final judgment here, to be void, simply because it,
was taken before the mandate was sent down. Nothing but
an entire want of jurisdiction in the state court to make the
order of December 1, 1890, could have justified the Circuit
Court in interfering with its proceedings by writ of habeas
cowrpus. We are of opinion that there was no such want of
jurisdiction.
The remaining grounds set forth in the appellant's petition
for his discharge from custody are substantially disposed of by
the decision in Food v B'u8sh, ante, 278, just rendered. The
alleged assignment, at the trial of the appellant, of one as his.

IN RE SIBUYA JUGIRO.
Opmlon of the Court.

counsel who (although he may have been an attorney at law)
had not been admitted or qualified to practise as an attorney
or counsellor at law in the courts of New York, the misdescription in the indictment of the wound he was charged with
having inflicted upon the deceased, and the exclusion from the
list of grand and petit jurors of citizens of the United States
of the same race with appellant, were all matters occurring in
the course of the proceedings and trial in a court of competent
jurisdiction, proceeding under statutes that do not conflict
with the Constitution of the United States. The errors, if
any, committed by that court in respect to any of those matters, did not affect its jurisdiction of the offence or of the
person accused, and cannot be reached by habeas copus.
It may be, as is claimed, that the appellant is unacquainted
with our laws and language. iBut that fact, however material or important in support of an application to the proper
authorities for a pardon, or for a commutation of the sentence,
is immaterial upon this inquiry as to the authority of a court
of the United States, by a writ of habeas cowpus, to review
and annul the judgment of a state court administering the
criminal laws of a State.
It is equally immaterial that the appellant is the subject of
a foreign government. That does not entitle him to exemption from responsibility to the laws of the State into which
he may choose to go. The criminal laws of New York make
no discrimination against him because of his nativity or race.
They accord to him when upon trial for his life or liberty the
same rights and privileges that are accorded, under like circumstances, to native or naturalized citizens of this country
Besides, no person, charged with a crime involving life or
liberty, is entitled, by virtue of the Constitution of the United
States, to have his race represented upon the grand jury that
may indict him, or upon the petit jury that may try him.
And so far as the Constitution of the United States is concerned, service upon grand and petit juries in the courts of
the several States may be restricted to citizens of the United
States. It rests with each State to prescribe such qualifications as it deems proper for jurymen, taking care only that no

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

discrimination, in respect to such service, be made against any
class of citizens solely because of their race. The statutes of
iNew York regulating these matters do not, in any way, conflict with the provisions of the Federal Constitution, and if,
as alleged, they were so administered by the state court, in
appellant's case, as to discriminate against him because of his
race, the remedy for the wrong done to him was not by a writ
of habeas corpus from a court of the United States.
For the reasons stated in this opinion, and in Wood v Brush,
the judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY was not present at the argument and
took no part in the decision of this case.

ROGERS v. DURANT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 318. Submitted April 16,1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

A bank check is a "bin of exchange" within the meaning of that term as
used in the Statutes of Iminois prescribing the term of five years after
the cause of action accrues, and not thereafter, as the time within which
an action founded upon it must be commenced.

Tins was an action of assumpsit brought by Henry J. Rogers,
January 26, 1884, against William F Durant and others, as
"surviving partners of the late firm of James W Davis and
associates," in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois, upon twenty instruments in writiug, bearing various dates from April 12, 1869, to February
12, 1870. Durant alone was served with process.
The original declaration consisted of the common counts,
and was subsequently amended by the addition of special
counts upon each of the pieces of paper sued on, describing
eighteen of them as bills of exchange and two as banker's

