BORAH v. WILSON.
Statement of the Case.

by the prompt payment of both principal and interest, at
maturity, and there is nothing to show that payment was to
be made in any other way than through taxation, it necessarily
follows that power to tax to meet the payment was one of the
essential elements of the power to protect the credit. If what
the law requires to be done can only be done through taxation,
then taxation is authorized to the extent that may be needed,
unless it is otherwise expressly declared. The power to tax in
such cases is not an implied power, but a duty growing out of
the power to contract. The one power is as much express as
the other. Here it seems to have been understood by the legislature that the ordinary taxes might not be enough to enable
the county to meet the extraordinary obligation that was to be
incurred, and so, without placing any restriction on the amount
to be raised, the county court was expressly authorized to do
all that was necessary to protect the credit of the county
The subscription was paid by the bonds, but the obligation to pay the bonds, principal and interest, when they matured was legally substituted."
All that was said in that case is applicable to the present
case, and places beyond question the power and duty of the
county court of Scotland to levy such tax as may be sufficient
to pay the judgment obtained by Hill, with interest and costs.
Judgment afflrned.

BORAH v. WILSON.
APPEAL FROMI THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 309. Argued and submitted April 15, 1891.-Decided April 20, 1891.

This case is affirmed upon the authority of Harterv. Kernochan, 103 U. S.
562, and other cases.

Tis was an action brought by citizens, owners of real estate and taxpayers in Wayne County, Illinois, against the

officers of that county to have certain issues of bonds of that

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

county cancelled as invalid, and an injunction issued to prevent the levy of taxes to pay any of the principal or interest
upon them.
Hr H. Tompkins for appellants submitted on his brief.
Mr George A. Sanders for appellees. -r T. C. .Jather,
21 r T A. Connolly and ffr 0 J Bailey filed a brief for
same.
PER CuRAx. The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed
upon the authority of .Leach v The .People, 122 Illinois, 420;
Hiarterv -ernochan, 103 U. S. 562 Bonham v. iNeedles, 103
U. S. 648.

Afflrmed.

STEVENSON v. BARBOUR.
ERROR TO THE

cmCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THCE

:DISTRICT OF ]KENTUCKY.
No. 304. Argued and submitted April 14, 1891. -Decided

April 20, 1891.

There being no assignment of errors and no specification of errors, and the
record presenting no question of law, the judgment below is affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

_-Mr' J G Carlisle for plaintiff in error submitted on his
brief.
.ltr Orrn. B. Hallam for defendant in error.
. No assignment of errors accompanies the
PER OuiAi
transcript of record in this case, nor is there any specification
of the errors relied on in the brief of counsel for plaintiff in
error. Moreover, the record presents no question of law calling for the exercise of our right of review Fishburn v. Rail'way Co., 137 U. S. 60, Pacm.4t Express Co. v Ztalin, 132 U. S.
531, 538.
The judgment is
Aflrmed.

