OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

The fourth plea was inaccurate in its reference to a former
statute of limitations, approved February 10, 1849; but that
is immaterial, and, stripped of surplusage, it averred that the
cause of action set forth in each of the twenty special counts'
as well as the common counts- did not accrue within five years
next before the bringing of the suit. The court properly held
that, such being the fact, the drafts and checks were barred,
and, as there was no pretence that there was any other cause
of action, the judgment was right, and it is

HUMPHREYS v. MoKISSOOK.

WABASH, ST. LOUIS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. McKISSOCK.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Nos. 296, 991. Argued April 8,1891.-Decded Mlay 11, 1891.

Several railroad companies combined to construct an elevator, to be connected with their respective roads, each to contribute an equal sum
towards its costs, and each to receive corresponding certificates of stock
in a corporation organized to take title to the elevator and to construct
it. This arrangement was carried out. Held,
(1) That the interest of each company in it was as a stockholder in the
company which constructed it;
(2) That no company had an interest in the property itself which it
could mortgage;
(3) That such stock would not pass to a mortgagee of one of the railroads under a general description as an appurtenance to the road.
A railroad company joining in the construction of an elevator on land not
belonging to it, and situated at some distance from its road, does not
acquire an interest in it which will pass as an appurtenance under a mortgage of its railroad as constructed or to be constructed, and the appurtenances thereunto belonging.

Tn two appeals in these cases are from the same decree.
Both will be disposed of by the same decision, which will turn
upon the effect of a mortgage, executed by a railroad corpora-

HUMPR REYS v. M KISSOCK.
Statement of the Case.

tion of railroad property, upon a subsequently acquired interest
of the mortgagor in the stock of an elevator company The
material facts out of which the controversy arises are very
fully and clearly set forth in the briefs of counsel. They are
substantially as follows:
On the 15th of February, 1879, the St. Louis, Kansas City
and Northern Railway Company, a corporation created under
the laws of Missouri, owned a railroad extending in a northeasterly direction from Elm Flats in Davies County of that
State, through the counties of Davies, Gentry, Nodoway and
Atchison, to the boundary line between Missouri and Iowa.
It was also the lessee for a term of years of a railroad extending from Council Bluffs, in Iowa, m a southeasterly direction,
through the counties of Pottawatomie, Mills, Fremont and
Page to a point on the boundary line, where the railroads
,connected.
On that day, for the purpose of securing the payment of 250
bonds, each for the sum of $1000, the railway company mortgaged its leasehold estate in the railroad in Iowa, and its title
in fee to its railroad in Missouri, to the United States Trust
,Company of New York, as trustee. The property described
in the mortgage is as follows
"All and every part and parcel of the continuous line of
railroad, and all right, title and interest therein, as now owned,
leased and held by said St. Louis, Kansas City and Northern
Railway Company, commencing at Elm Flats, near Pattonsburg, in the State of Missouri, and extending through the
-counties of Davies, Gentry, Nodoway and Atchison in the
State of Missouri, and through the counties of Page, Fremont,
Mills and Pottawatomie in the State of Iowa, to the city of
Council Bluffs in said State, as satd railroadnow is, or may
be her'eafter constructed, matntaned, operated or acquired,
together with all the prmvileges, rights, franchises, real estate,
rzght of way, depots, depot grounds, szde tracks, water tanks,
engnes, cars and other appurtenancesthereunto belongtng."
On the 10th of November, 1879, the St. Louis, Kansas City
and Northern Railway Company was consolidated with the
Wabash Railway Company of Illinois, Indiana and Ohio, and
VOL. cxL-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

the corporation thus formed took the name of the Wabash,
St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company
Afterwards, on the 17th of December, 1880, a corporation
was formed under the laws of Iowa by certain parties named
Dillon, Hopkins, Keep, Riddle and Perkins, known as the
Union Elevator Company Its articles of incorporation provided that its principal place of business should be at Council
Bluffs, that its stock should be $500,000; and that the subscriptions to the stock should be paid in when called for by
the board of directors. The parties who formed this corporation were officers of different railway companies doing business
at Council Bluffs. Immediately after its organization the
Elevator Company, as party of the first part, entered into a
written contract with the Union Pacific Railway Company as
party of the second- part, the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific
Railway Company, as party of the third part, the Chicago,
Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company, as party of the
fourth part, the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railway
Company, as party of the fifth part, the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company, as party of the sixth part, and
the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company, as
party of the seventh part, in which each of the companies
agreed to subscribe $100,000 to the capital stock of the Elevator Company, and to contribute equally thereto, and the
Elevator Company agreed that m conducting its business it
would not discriminate in favor of or against either of the
companies, but would at all times serve them on equal terms.
In 1881 these companies subscribed for an equal amount of
stock in the Elevator Company, and in 1881 and 1882 the elevator was erected at a cost of $280,000. When completed it
was leased by the Elevator Company to certain parties, who
afterwards operated it as tenants of that company. The
different companies subscribed equal amounts for the construction of the elevator, which subscription was in reality
only one-sixth of $280,000, and not one-sixth of $500,000, the
authorized amount of its capital stock.. Each, therefore, paid
$46,666.66, and received its stock, except the Wabash, St. Louis
and Pacific Railway Company, which paid only $41,666.66,

HUMPREYS v. MeKISSOCK.
Statement of the Case.

leaving $5000 due. For want of this last payment no stock
has been issued to that company It will be entitled to receive
its proportional part of the stock upon the payment of that
sum.
In 1884 the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company became insolvent, and on the 29th day of May of that
year Solon Humphreys and Thomas E. Tutt were, in proceedings before the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri, appointed receivers of all its property, including the railroad from Elm Flats, Missouri, to Council Bluffs, Iowa.
In June, 1885, a bill was filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Iowa, Western
Division, by the United States Trust Company of iNew York,
against the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company,
to foreclose the mortgage of February 15, 1879, executed by
the St. Louis, Kansas City and :Northern Railway Company,
(afterwards merged into the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific
Railway Company,) covering the road from Elm Flats to
Council Bluffs. On March 3, 1886, that court appointed
Thomas McKissock receiver of the premises and property
described in the mortgage, with power and instructions to take
possession thereof.
Previously to this, on January 6, 1886, the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri had
made an order directing the receivers, Humphreys and Tutt,
to transfer and surrender to the trustee of the mortgage, the
United States Trust Company, or to any person or receiver
appointed, at its instance, by the Circuit Courts of the States
of Iowa or Missouri, in which the foreclosure suits brought by
the trustee might at the time be pending, the entire line of
railroad known as the Omaha Division of the Wabash, St.
Louis and Pacific Railway Company, by which was meant the
line extending from Elm Flats to Council Bluffs, and also all
property, real and personal, pertaining to that division then in
their possession and control.
Under the facts as thus stated the situation of the case was
this. Humphreys and Tutt, as receivers of all the property of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company, appointed
by the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri, claimed possession and the right to hold the
interest of that company in the stock of the Elevator Company On the other hand, McKissock, as receiver of the property described in the mortgage to the Trust Company, claimed
the stock in the Elevator Company as covered by that mortgage, and demanded its transfer to him by Humphreys and
Tutt. This being refused, he filed the present petition to
enforce the demand. The court directed its reference to a
special commissioner to take proofs and report the same with
his findings of law and fact. He found .the facts substantially
as stated and also that the elevator was immediately connected with the main line of the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific
Railway Company, that that company shipped large quantities of grain out of Council Bluffs over the Omaha Division,
that the elevator was erected for the sole purpose of storing
and handling grain to be transported over the six railroads, that
the erection of an elevator by the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company at Council Bluffs was necessary to the
conduct of its business as a shipper of grain, and that the handling and shipping of grain could not be successfully carried on
at Council Bluffs without one. As a conclusion of law he
held that the elevator was a common appurtenance to the railways, and that the one-sixth interest therein of the Wabash,
St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company was an appurtenance
belonging to its line of railway, and was covered by the mortgage of February 15, 1879, and formed a part of the mortgage
security He, therefore, recommended the entry of an order
directing that company and its receivers to execute and deliver
to MIclKissock a proper assignment of the interest of that company and of the receivers in the elevator. Exceptions were
taken to this report, but they were overruled by the court, the
report was confirmed, and a decree entered that Humphreys and
Tutt execute and deliver to McKissock, as receiver, a proper assignment of all the interest of the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific
Railway Company, or of themselves as receivers, in the Union
Elevator. From that decree appeals were taken to this court.

HUTAPIHREYS v. McKISSOCK.
Argument for Appellee.

Notwithstanding the decree speaks of the interest of the
Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company in the Union
Elevator, it was stipulated that the company had no interest
otherwise than as a stockholder in the property of the Union
Elevator Company The evidence before the commissioner
also showed that the elevator was not immediately on the
main line of the Wabash Company, as found by him, but was
distant more than half a mile from it, and was only reached
by passing over the tracks of another company
.
F. TF lehmann for appellants.
gett filed a brief for same.

-Mr Wells H. Blod-

Mr Edward IF Sheldon (with whom was Mr Theodore
Sheldon on the brief) for appellee.
That the acquisition and use of grain elevators by railway
companies for storing and handling grain to be carried over
their lines, are within the corporate powers of such companies, recent decisions leave no room for doubt. Few York 6t
Harlem Railroad v Eip, 46 N. Y 546, -ll. Cent. Railroad
v Wathen, 17 Brad. App. 582. The right of eminent domain
may be used to acquire land for them. In re N Y Central
&e. Railroad Co., 77 N. Y 248, IV Y Central &c. Railroad
Co. v tMetropolitarn Gas Lzght Co., 63 N. Y 326, JI re Staten
Island Rapzd Transit Co., 103 N. Y 251, .Miss. 7-ally Railroad v. Chwago &o. Railroad,58 Mississippi, 846, 896. When
constructed, such elevators may be exempted from taxation, as
part of a taxed railroad. Pennsylvanza Railroad v Jersey
City, 49 N. J Law, 540. Regarding the present case in the
light of these adjudications, it would seem to be a necessary
sequence that the interest of the Wabash Railway Company
in the Union Elevator was acquired and used for railroad purposes. It is not disputed that the elevator in question was
erected, and has ever since been exclusively used by its owners,
the six railway companies and their successors, for the sole
purpose of storing and transshipping grain carried over these
companies' lines. They alone have made use of its facilities,
and the witnesses are unammous that the erection and main-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Argument for Appellee.

tenance of the elevator were indispensable to the conduct of
the companies' grain traffic.
The interest of the Wabash Company m the elevator in
question, was embraced in the mortgage of the "Omaha Division," under the description "other appurtenances." In presenting this case to the court below, the appellants' counsel
laid much stress upon the technical rule that in the construction of deeds, land cannot be regarded as appurtenant to land.
Even m its strict signification, this rule is subject to the qualification that land or other property essential to the beneficial
use and enjoyment of the property granted, will pass as an
appurtenance. TFkztney v Olniey, 3 Mason, 280; S.parks v
Hess, 15 California, 186.
What is appurtenant to a railway, however, with its manifold purposes and complicated needs is, of course, a question
having a far wider range and demanding a much more liberal
treatment. Had the elevator in question been erected, owned
and used by the Wabash Company alone, the conclusion seems
clear that the lien of the mortgage would, under the foregoing
authorities, have attached.
We are thus brought to determine whether a different conclusion is authorized by the fact that the property as a whole
was owned equally by six separate railway companies, and
their title thereto evidenced by equal amounts of the capital
stock of the Union Elevator Company
The form of the railway company's ownership does not
affect the rights of the mortgagee. A mortgage by a railway
company may cover stock of another corporation subsequently
acquired by it. Williamson v .HewJersey Southern Railway,
26 N. J Eq. 398.
But the interest involved in the present suit is more than
naked shares of stock. When the six railway companies, m
1881, for the necessary purpose of storing and handling grain
to be shipped over their lines, agreed, in order to avoid unnecessary expense in erecting and operating six separate grain elevators, to erect and operate one large elevator in common, there
were several methods by which the ownership of their respective interests could have been evidenced. The title to the whole

HUMPHREYS v. M KISSOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

property might have been held in common by the six companies. It could not be contended, we submit, that had that
method been adopted, the one-sixth interest of the Wabash
Company would not have become subject to the lien of the
Omaha Division mortgage. Toledo, Delphos &c. Railroadv
Hamilton, 134 U. S. 305, Central Trust Co. v Kneeland, 138
U. S. 4141.
But the question involved here is res udicata. The identity
of the interest of the Wabash Company in the elevator, with
the interest claimed by petitioner, and of the deed of trust
described in the decree of sale with the mortgage to complainant herein, is established.
As against the appellants, therefore, this decree of sale is a
conclusive adjudication upon the following points
1. That the interest in the elevator was acquired and used
by the Wabash Company for railroad purposes.
2. That being so acquired and used, it passed both by the
"general mortgage" and the prior mortgage to the complainant.
3. That the fact that the interest of the Wabash Company
was that of a stockholder in the Elevator Company as well as
that of an owner of the right to forever use the elevator, did
not prevent the lien of both the "general mortgage" and the
mortgage to the complainant from attaching thereto.
MRhi. JusTi E Fr.ELD, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.

The commissioner in his report committed a manifest error
in holding that the Wabash Company possessed any interest
in the property of the Elevator Company The facts found
by him as to the organization of the latter, the subscription
to its stock, the construction of the elevator and its lease to
others, show beyond controversy the independent existence
of that corporation, and that the railway company had no
specific interest in its elevator or other property which it could
mortgage. It was a mere stockholder in the Elevator Company If there had been any doubt on this point, from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opmion of the Court.

evidence before that officer on which he found the facts stated,
it must have been removed by the stipulation of the parties.
The court below, therefore, erred in confirming the commissioner's report in that particular and entering a decree that
Humphreys and Tutt, as receivers of the Wabash Company,
execute and deliver to the petitioner, McIoissock, an assignment of an interest supposed to be held by it, or by them as
such receivers, in the Union elevator. That railway company
had no interest which it could assign, the building belonged to
the Union Elevator Company, and the railway company was
entitled by its subscription, when paid, only to a certain proportion of its stock. Both the commissioner, and the court,
in confirming his report and entering the decree mentioned,
seem to have confounded the ownership of stock in a corporation with ownership of its property But nothing is more
distinct than the two rights, the ownership of one confers
no ownership of the other. The property of a corporation is
not subject to the control of individual members, whether
acting separately or jointly They can neither encumber nor
transfer that property, nor authorize others to do so. The
corporation - the artificial being created - holds the property,
and -alone can mortgage or transfer it, and the corporation
acts only through its officers, subject to tbe conditions prescribed by law
In Srnzt v Hurd, 12 Met. 371, 385, the relations of stockholders to the rights and property of a banking corporation
are stated with his usual clearness and precision by Chief Justice Shaw, speaking for the Supreme Court of Massachusetts,
and the same doctrine applies to the relations of stockholders
in all business corporations. Said the Chief Justice "The
individual members of a corporation, whether they should all
join, or each act severally, have no right or power to intermeddle with the property or concerns of the bank, or call any
officer, agent or servant to account, or discharge them from
any liability Should all the stockholders join in a power of
attorney to any one, he could not take possession of any real
or personal estate, any security, or chose in action, could not
collect a debt, or discharge a claim, or release damage arising

HUMPHREYS v. McKISSOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

from any default, simply because they are not the legal owners
of the property, and damage done to. such property is not an
injury to them. Their rights and their powers are limited and
well defined."
The commissioner also committed a manifest error in his
report in holding that the elevator was a common appurtenance to the railroads of the several companies having the
stock of the Elevator Company, and that one-sixth interest
therein was an appurtenance to the railroad of the Wabash
Company It is difficult to understand the course of reasoning by which a certificate of stock in an independent corporation can be an appurtenance to a railroad. If stock in the
company in question could be considered an appurtenance to
a railroad, by the same rule stock in a bank, or in any other
corporation, with which the railroad did business, might be so
considered.
But were we to consider the Wabash Company as possessing
a separable legal interest in the elevator, it would not be appurtenant to its railroad. That building is situated at some
distance from the railroad - more than half a mile -

and is

erected on land not belonging to that company, but leased
from the Union Pacific Railway Company, and can only be
reached by crossing the tracks of another company Had the
elevator been constructed upon property covered by the mortgage, it might have been contended that it fell, to the extent
of the one-sixth interest, under the mortgage, as one of the
depots of the company The term "depot" in the mortgage
is not necessarily limited to a place provided for the convenience of passengers while waiting for the arrival or departure
of trains. It applies also to buildings used for the receipt and
storage of freight, which, when received, is to be safely kept
until forwarded by the cars of the company or delivered to
the owner or consignee. Such a building, whether existing at
the time of the mortgage, or constructed afterwards upon the
property of the company covered by it, may pass under the
mortgage as one of its depots, -but will not pass as an appurtenance to the property previously existing. A thing is appurtenant to something else only when it stands in the relation

OCTOBER TERTI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

of an incident to a principal, and is necessarily connected with
the use and enjoyment of the latter. Harms v Elliott, 10 Pet.
25, 54, Jackson v iHathaway, 15 Johns. 447, 455, Linthwum
v Bay, 9 Wall. 241. Of two parcels of land one can never be
appurtenant to the other, for though the possession of the one
may add greatly to the benefit derived from the other, it is
not an incident of the other or essential to the possession of
its title or use, one can be enjoyed independently of the other.
As said by the Court of Appeals of New York, in Woodhull v
Rosenthal, 61 N. Y 382, 390" "A thing 'appurtenant' is
defined to be a thing used with and related to or dependent
upon another thing more worthy, and agreeing in its nature
and quality with the thing whereunto it is appendant or 'appurtenant.' It results from tns definition that land can never
be appurtenant to other land or pass with it as belonging to
it.
All that can be reasonably claimed is, that the
word 'appurtenances' will carry with it easements and serwtudes used and' enjoyed with the lands for whose benefit they
were created. Even an easement will not pass unless it is
necessary to the enjoyment of'the thing granted."
Under the term "appurtenances," as used in the mortgage
in question, only such property passes as is indispensable to
the use and enjoyment of the franchises of the company It
does not include property acquired simply because it may
prove useful to the company and facilitate the discharge of
its business. A distinction is made in such cases between
what is indispensable to the operation of a railway and what
would be only convenient. Bank v Tennessee, 104 U S. 493,
496. The elevator in question was at all times under-an independent management and was used in the same manner as any
other warehouse not on the premises of the railway company
to which it sent cars for freight.
The court, therefore, erred in confirming the report of the
commissioner in the particular mentioned, and in passing its
decree upon the assumption that the Wabash Company had a
legal separate interest in the elevator, and that the mortgage
attached to such interest. That company, as already stated,
possessed only stock in the Elevator Company; and the owner-

HUMPHREYS v. McKISSOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

ship of stock in one company has never been adjudged to be
an appurtenance to a line of railroad belonging to another
company
There is no merit in the position that the question involved
in these appeals was adjudicated by the decree foreclosing a
subsequent mortgage of the Wabash Company It appears
that on June 1, 1880, a general mortgage was executed by
that company to the Central Trust Company of New York
upon different lines of railroad, including the Omaha Division.
When this was foreclosed the decree declared that the mortgage was a lien on the interest of the Wabash Company in the
elevator at Council Bluffs, the court erroneously assuming that
the company was possessed of an interest therein. That supposed interest was ordered to be sold, together with other
property covered by the mortgage, without affecting the lien
of numerous other contracts, leases and senior divisional mortgages. The object of the suit was to have a sale of the property covered by that mortgage, without in any manner affecting
the rights of other mortgage creditors. The decree itself
declared that neither it, nor any sale under it, should in any
way prejudice or affect the rights of parties or persons inter
ested in certain mortgages, deeds of trust, leases and contracts,
which were set forth, among which was the mortgage of February 15, 1879, and that all the rights of such persons and
parties were thereby reserved to them. It is plain, therefore,
that the rights of parties to this proceeding were not deterined by that decree.
From the views expressed we are of opinion that the stock
held by. the Wabash Company in the Union Elevator Company at Council Bluffs was not covered by the mortgage executed on February 15, 1879, such stock not being in any sense
an appurtenance to the property covered by the mortgage.
The decree on the petition of intervention must therefore be
Reversed, and the case remanded to the Circuit Court, wzth
a direotion to dismmss the petitwon, and st ts so ordered.

