OCTOBER TERM, 1997

Syllabus

CASS COUNTY, MINNESOTA, ET AL. v. LEECH LAKE
BAND OF CHIPPEWA INDIANS
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT
No. 97-174. Argued February 24, 1998-Decided June 8, 1998
During the late 19th century, the Federal Government instituted a policy
of removing portions of reservation land from tribal ownership and federal protection, allotting some parcels to individual Indians in fee simple
and providing for other parcels to be sold to non-Indians. Most allotments were implemented pursuant to the General Allotment Act (GAA),
which provided that land would be patented to individual Indians and
held in trust for 25 years, after which title would be conveyed in fee
simple, § 5, and that Indian allottees were subject to plenary state jurisdiction, §6. The Burke Act amended §6 to provide that state jurisdiction did not attach until the end of the trust period, and contained a
proviso to the effect that the Secretary of the Interior could issue a fee
simple patent before the trust period's end and thereafter restrictions as
to, inter alia, taxation would be removed. Allotment of the Minnesota
reservation lands of respondent Leech Lake Band of Chippewa Indians
(Band) was implemented through the Nelson Act of 1889, which provided for the reservation land to be alienated from tribal ownership in
three ways: under §8, parcels were allotted to individual Indians as
provided by the GAA; under §§ 4 and 5, pine lands were sold at public
auction to non-ndians; and under §6, agricultural lands were sold to
non-Indian settlers as homesteads. After Congress ended the allotment practice, the Band began purchasing back parcels of reservation
land that had been allotted to individual Indians or sold to non-Indians.
Based on this Court's decision, in County of Yakima v. Confederated
Tribes and Bands of Yakima Nation, 502 U.S. 251, 253-254, that a
county could assess ad valorem taxes on reservation land owned in fee
by individual Indians or the tribe that had originally been made alienable when patented under the GAA, petitioner Cass County began assessing such taxes on 21 parcels of reservation land that had been alienated under the Nelson Act and reacquired by the Band. Thirteen of
the parcels had been allotted to Indians and the remaining eight had
been sold to non-Indians. The Band paid the taxes, interest, and penalties under protest and filed suit seeking a declaratory judgment that the
county could not tax the parcels. The District Court granted the
county summary judgment, holding that the parcels were taxable be-

104

CASS COUNTY v. LEECH LAKE BAND OF
CHIPPEWA INDIANS
Syllabus

cause, under Yakima, if Congress has made Indian land freely alienable,
States may tax the land. The Eighth Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part, holding that the parcels allotted to Indians could be
taxed if patented under the Burke Act proviso, which made "unmistakably clear" Congress' intent to allow such taxation, but that the eight
parcels sold to non-Indians could not. Only those eight parcels are at
issue here.
Held: State and local governments may impose ad valorem taxes on reservation land that was made alienable by Congress and sold to nonIndians, but was later repurchased by the tribe. Pp. 110-115.
(a) Congress' intent to authorize state and local taxation of Indian
reservation land must be "'unmistakably clear."' Yakima, supra, at
258. Congress has manifested such an intent when it has authorized
reservation lands to be.allotted in fee to individual Indians, making the
lands freely alienable and withdrawing them from federal protection.
This was the case in both Yakima and Goudy v. Meath, 203 U. S.146.
The Goudy Court concluded that, because it would be unreasonable for
Congress to withdraw federal protection and permit an Indian to dispose of his lands as he pleased, while releasing the lands from taxation,
Congress would have to "clearly manifest" such a contrary purpose in
order to counteract the consequence of taxability that ordinarily flows
from alienability. Id., at 149. The Yakima Court found that both the
Burke Act proviso and §5 of the GAA manifested an unmistakably clear
intent to allow state and local taxation of allotted land. The Eighth
Circuit thus erred in concluding that Yakima turned on the Burke Act
proviso's express reference to taxability. Both it and Goudy stand for
the proposition that when Congress makes reservation lands freely
alienable, it is unmistakably clear that Congress intends that land to be
taxable by state and local governments, unless a contrary intent is
"clearly manifested." Yakima, supra, at 259. Pp. 110-113.
(b) The foregoing principle controls the disposition of this case. By
providing for the public sale of reservation land to non-Indians in the
Nelson Act, Congress removed that land from federal protection and
made it fully alienable. Under Yakima and Goudy, therefore, it is taxable. The Eighth Circuit's contrary holding attributes to Congress the
odd intent that parcels conveyed to Indians are taxable, while parcels
sold to the general public remain tax exempt. Contrary to the Band's
argument, a tribe's subsequent repurchase of alienable reservation land
does not manifest any congressional intent to reassume federal protection of the land and to oust state taxing authority, particularly when
Congress relinquished such protection many years before. Further,

Cite as: 524 U. S. 103 (1998)
Syllabus
holding that tax-exempt status automatically attaches when a tribe acquires reservation land would render unnecessary §465 of the Indian
Reorganization Act, which gives the Secretary of the Interior authority
to place land in trust, held for the Indians' benefit and tax exempt, and
which respondent has used to restore federal trust status to seven of
the eight parcels at issue. Pp. 113-115.
108 F. 3d 820, reversed in part.
THoMAs, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Earl E. Maus argued the cause for petitioners. With him
on the briefs were Mark B. Levinger and James W. Neher,
Assistant Attorneys General of Minnesota.
James M. Schoessler argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Steven G. Thorne and Joseph
F. Halloran.
BarbaraMcDowell argued the cause for the United States
as amicus curiae urging affirmance. With her on the brief
were Solicitor General Waxman, Assistant Attorney GeneralSchiffer, Deputy SolicitorGeneral Kneedler,and James
C. Kilbourne.*
*Briefs of amici curiaeurging reversal were filed for the State of Michigan et al. by Frank J Kelley, Attorney General of Michigan, Thomas L.
Casey, Solicitor General, and R. John Wernet, Jr., Assistant Attorney General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows:
Bill Pryorof Alabama, Daniel E. Lungren of California, Gale A Norton
of Colorado, Alan G. Lance of Idaho, Thomas J Miller of Iowa, Joseph P.
Mazurek of Montana, Dennis C. Vacco of New York, W.A Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, and Jan Graham of Utah; for Lewis County, Idaho, et
al. by Tom D. Tobin, James M. Johnson, Kimron Torgerson, Michael
Jesse, and Herbert Win. Gillespie; and for the National Association of
Counties et al. by Richard Ruda and Carter G. Phillips.
Briefs of amici curiaeurging affirmance were filed for the Confederated
Tribes and Bands of the Yakama Indian Nation by Tim Weaver; for the
Grand Portage Band of Chippewa et al. by Vanya S. Hogen-Kind; for the
Hoopa Valley Tribe et al. by Michael J Wahoske; for the Lummi Indian
Tribe by Harry L. Johnsen III and Judith K Bush; for the Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe of Michigan by Frank R. Jozwiak and K Allison

106

CASS COUNTY v. LEECH LAKE BAND OF
CHIPPEWA INDIANS

Opinion of the Court
JUSTICE THOMAS delivered the opinion of the Court.

We granted certiorari in this case to resolve whether state
and local governments may tax reservation land that was
made alienable by Congress and sold to non-Indians by the
Federal Government, but was later repurchased by a tribe.
We hold that ad valorem taxes may be imposed upon such
land because, under the test established by our precedents,
Congress has made "unmistakably clear" its intent to allow
such taxation.
I
The Leech Lake Band of Chippewa Indians is a federally
recognized Indian tribe. The Leech Lake Reservation,
which today encompasses 588,684 acres within the northern
Minnesota counties of Cass, Itasca, and Beltrami, was established by federal treaty in 1855 and was augmented by subsequent treaties and Executive Orders.
During the late 19th century, the Federal Government
changed its policy of setting aside reservation lands exclusively for Indian tribes under federal supervision. The new
"allotment" policy removed significant portions of reservation land from tribal ownership and federal protection, allotting some parcels to individual Indians and providing for
other parcels to be sold to non-Indians. See County of Yakima v. Confederated Tribes and Bands of Yakima Nation,
502 U. S. 251, 253-254 (1992); F. Cohen, Handbook of Federal
Indian Law 127-138 (1982). The purpose of the policy was
to assimilate Indians into American society and to open reservation lands to ownership by non-Indians. Id., at 128.
Most of the allotments made by the Federal Government
were implemented pursuant to the General Allotment Act of
McGaw; and for the National Congress of American Indians by Tracy A.
Labin and Kim Jerome Gottschalk.

Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the Citizens Equal Rights Alliance
by Douglas Y Freeman; for the Oneida Indian Nation of New York by
William W. Taylor III and Michael R. Smith; and for the Tribes of Forest
County Potawatomi Community et al. by Carol Brown Biermeier.

Cite as: 524 U. S. 103 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

1887 (GAA), 24 Stat. 388, as amended, 25 U. S. C. § 331 et seq.
Section 5 of the GAA provided that parcels of tribal land
would be patented to individual Indians and held in trust
by the United States for a 25-year period, after which the
Federal Government would convey title to the individual
allottees"in fee, discharged of said trust and free of all charge or
incumbrance whatsoever ....
And if any conveyance
shall be made of the lands set apart and allotted as
herein provided, or any contract made touching the
same, before the expiration of the time above mentioned,
such conveyance or contract shall be absolutely null and
void...." 25 U.S.C. §348.
Section 6 of the GAA, as originally enacted in 1887, provided
that "each and every member of the respective bands or
tribes of Indians to whom allotments have been made shall
have the benefit of and be subject to the laws, both civil and
criminal, of the State or Territory in which they may reside."
24 Stat. 388. In 1905, this Court interpreted § 6 to mean
that Indian allottees were subject to plenary state jurisdiction immediately upon issuance of the trust patent. See In
re Heft, 197 U. S. 488.
The following year, Congress reversed the result of In re
Heff by passing the Burke Act, 34 Stat. 182, 25 U. S. C. § 349,
which amended § 6 of the GAA to provide that state jurisdiction did not attach until the end of the 25-year trust period,
when the lands were conveyed to the Indians in fee. The
Burke Act also contained a proviso to the effect that the
Secretary of the Interior could, if "satisfied that any Indian
allottee is competent and capable of managing his or her affairs," authorize issuance of a fee simple patent to the land
before the end of the usual trust period, "and thereafter all
restrictions as to sale, incumbrance, or taxation of said land
shall be removed ...... Ibid.

108

CASS COUNTY v. LEECH LAKE BAND OF
CHIPPEWA INDIANS
Opinion of the Court

For the Leech Lake Band and other Chippewa Tribes in
Minnesota, the allotment policy was implemented through
the Nelson Act of 1889. 25 Stat. 642. The Nelson Act provided for the "complete cession and relinquishment" of tribal
title to all reservation land in the State of Minnesota, except
for parts of two reservations, to the United States. After
such "complete cession and relinquishment," which "operate[d] as a complete extinguishment of Indian title," the
lands were to be disposed of in one of three ways: under
§ 3, the United States would allot parcels to individual tribe
members as provided in the GAA; under §§ 4 and 5, so-called
"pine lands" (surveyed 40-acre lots with standing or growing
pine timber) were to be sold by the United States at public
auction to the highest bidder; and under § 6, the remainder
of the reservation land (called "agricultural lands") was to be
sold by the United States to non-Indian settlers under the
provisions of the Homestead Act of 1862, 12 Stat. 392.
In 1934, federal Indian policy shifted dramatically when
Congress enacted the Indian Reorganization Act, 48 Stat.
984, 25 U. S. C. §461 et seq., which ended the practice of making federal allotments to individual Indians. Although the
Reorganization Act did not repeal allotment statutes such as
the Nelson Act, it extended the trust period for lands already
allotted but not yet fee patented, provided that unallotted
surplus lands would be restored to tribal ownership, and allowed additional lands "within or without existing reservations" to be acquired by the Federal Government for the
tribes. See §§ 461, 462, 463, 465.
In 1977, the Leech Lake Band and individual Band members owned only about 27,000 acres-less than five percentof Leech Lake Reservation land. See State v. Forge, 262
N. W. 2d 341, 343, and n. 1 (Minn. 1977). Since then, the
Leech Lake Band has sought to reestablish its land base by
purchasing back parcels of reservation land that were allotted to individual Indians or sold to non-Indians during the
allotment period.

Cite as: 524 U. S. 103 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

In 1992, we held in County of Yakima v. Confederated
Tribes and Bands of Yakima Nation, supra, that a county
could assess ad valorem taxes on reservation land owned in
fee by individual Indians or the tribe and originally made
alienable when patented in fee simple under the GAA.
In 1993, Cass County began assessing ad valorem taxes on
21 parcels of reservation land that had been alienated from
tribal control under the various provisions of the Nelson Act
and later reacquired by the Leech Lake Band. Thirteen of
the parcels had been allotted to individual Indians under § 3;
seven had been sold to non-Indians as pine lands under §§ 4
and 5 for commercial timber harvest; and one parcel had
been distributed to a non-Indian under §6 as a homestead
plot. Under protest and to avoid foreclosure, the Leech
Lake Band paid more than $64,000 in taxes, interest, and
penalties.
In 1995, the Band ified suit in federal court seeking a declaratory judgment that Cass County could not tax the 21
parcels.1 The District Court granted summary judgment in
favor of Cass County, holding that all of the land that had
been alienated from tribal ownership under the Nelson Act
was taxable. 908 F. Supp. 689 (Minn. 1995). The District
Court interpreted our decision in Yakima to mean that "if
Congress has made Indian land freely alienable, states may
tax the land"-that is, "alienability equals taxability." 908
F. Supp., at 693.
A divided panel of the United States Court of Appeals for
the Eighth Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part.
108 F. 3d 820 (1997). Noting that Yakima reaffirmed prior
statements by this Court indicating that Congress must
make "unmistakably clear" its intent to subject reservation
lands to state or local taxation, 108 F. 3d, at 826, the panel
'Also in 1995, the Band successfully applied, pursuant to §465 of the
Indian Reorganization Act, 25 U. S. C. §465, to restore 11 of the parcels
to federal trust status. See infra, at 114-115; App. to Pet. for Cert. 56;
Tr. of Oral Arg. 9.

110

CASS COUNTY v. LEECH LAKE BAND OF
CHIPPEWA INDIANS
Opinion of the Court

majority held that the 13 parcels allotted to individual Indians under § 3 of the Nelson Act could be taxed so long as
the District Court confirmed on remand that they had been
patented after passage of the Burke Act proviso, because the
explicit mention of "taxation" in the proviso manifested the
necessary "unmistakably clear" intent. Id., at 827, 829-830.
But the panel majority further held that the eight parcels
sold as pine lands or homestead land under §§ 4-6 of the Nelson Act could not be taxed because those sections, "unlike
§3, did not incorporate the GAA or include any mention of
an intent to tax lands distributed under them which might
become reacquired by the Band in fee." Id., at 829.
Judge Magill concurred with the majority on the taxability
of the 13 allotted parcels, but he dissented from the holding
that the remaining 8 parcels were not also taxable. In his
view, Yakima propounded "the clear rule.., that alienability
allows taxation." 108 F. 3d, at 831.
We granted certiorari, 522 U. S. 944 (1997), to decide

whether Cass County may impose its ad valorem property
tax on the seven parcels sold as pine lands and the one sold
as a homestead to non-Indians.2
II
State and local governments may not tax Indian reservation land "'absent cession of jurisdiction or other federal
statutes permitting it."' County of Yakima v. Confederated Tribes and Bands of Yakima Nation, 502 U. S., at 258
(quoting Mescalero Apache Tribe v. Jones, 411 U. S. 145, 148

(1973)). We have consistently declined to find that Congress
has authorized such taxation unless it has "'made its intention to do so unmistakably clear."' Yakima, supra, at 258
(quoting Montana v. Blackfeet Tribe, 471 U. S. 759, 765

(1985)).
2

We have determined that Congress has manifested

We denied the cross-petition for a writ of certiorari filed by the Band,
which sought review of the holding by the courts below that the 13 parcels
allotted to Indians under § 3 of the NelSon Act are taxable.

Cite as: 524 U. S. 103 (1998)

Opinion of the Court

such an intent when it has authorized reservation lands to
be allotted in fee to individual Indians, thus making the lands
freely alienable and withdrawing them from federal protection. This was the case in both Yakima and Goudy v.
Meath, 203 U. S.146 (1906), in which this Court held that
land, allotted and patented in fee to individual Indians and
thus rendered freely alienable after the expiration of federal
trust status, was subject to county ad valorem taxes even
though it was within a reservation and held by either individual Indians or a tribe.
In Goudy, Congress had made reservation land alienable
by authorizing the President to issue patents to individual
members of the Puyallup Tribe. The President issued such
a patent to the plaintiff shortly before Washington became a
State. The treaty of March 16, 1854, between the United
States and the Puyallup Tribe, 10 Stat. 1043, provided that
such fee-patented land "shall be exempt from levy, sale, or
forfeiture" until a state constitution was adopted and the
state legislature removed the restrictions with Congress'
consent. When Washington became a State, its legislature
passed a law authorizing the sale of reservation lands;
shortly thereafter, Congress authorized the appointment of
a commission with the power to superintend the sale of those
lands, with the proviso that "the Indian allottees shall not
have power of alienation of the allotted lands not selected
for sale by said Commission for a period of ten years from
the date of the passage of this act." 27 Stat. 633 (1893).
When the 10-year period expired, the county levied an ad
valorem tax on the land. This Court held that the tax was
permissible because the land was freely alienable. Goudy v.
Meath, 203 U. S., at 149-150. Although the Indian patent
owner argued that there had been no express repeal of the
exemption provided by the 1854 treaty, this Court stated
that such an express repeal was unnecessary:
"That Congress may grant the power of voluntary sale,
while withholding the land from taxation or forced alien-

112

CASS COUNTY v. LEECH LAKE BAND OF
CHIPPEWA INDIANS
Opinion of the Court

ation may be conceded.... But while Congress may
make such provision, its intent to do so should be clearly
manifested." Id, at 149.
The Goudy Court concluded that it would "seem strange [for
Congress] to withdraw [federal] protection and permit the
Indian to dispose of his lands as he pleases, while at the same
time releasing [the lands] from taxation." Ibid. Indeed,
because such congressional purpose would be unreasonable,
Congress would have to "clearly manifest" such a contrary
purpose in order to counteract the consequence of taxability
that ordinarily flows from alienability. Ibid.
In Yakima, we considered whether the GAA manifested
an unmistakably clear intent to allow state and local taxation
of reservation lands allotted under the GAA and owned in
fee by either the Yakima Indian Nation or individual Indians.3 In holding that the lands could be taxed, we noted
that the Burke Act proviso clearly manifested such an intent
by expressly addressing the taxability of fee-patented land.
502 U. S., at 259. We also indicated that the alienability of
allotted lands itself, as provided by § 5 of the GAA, similarly
4
manifested an unmistakably clear intent to allow taxation.
We reasoned that Goudy, "without even mentioning the
sWe are concerned here only with Yakima's holding with respect to ad
valorem taxes such as those at issue in this case. Yakima also held that
the GAA did not authorize the county to impose an excise tax on the sale
of land held by individual Indians or by the tribe, because such a tax did
not constitute the "taxation of land." See County of Yakima v. Confederated Tribes and Bands of Yakima Nation, 502 U. S. 251, 268-269 (1992).
That holding, however, is not relevant to this case, which involves only an
ad valorem tax on land itself, rather than an excise tax on a transaction.
4The Burke Act proviso, as noted, see supra,at 107, did not itself authorize taxation of fee-patented land; it merely altered the result of In re Heft,
197 U. S. 488 (1905), as to when parcels allotted to the Indians could be
alienated and.taxed. In re Heff had held this occurred as soon as allotted
lands were patented to the Indians in trust (during which the land would
still be under the protection of the Federal Government); the Burke Act
proviso stated that this did not occur until the lands were patented in fee.

Cite as: 524 U. S. 103 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

Burke Act proviso," 502 U. S., at 259, had held that state tax
laws applied to the Indian allottee at the expiration of the
trust period: "[I]t was the alienability of the allotted lands
... that the [Goudy] Court found of central significance."
Id., at 263 (emphasis deleted). And we reiterated Goudy's
point that, although it is possible for Congress to render reservation land alienable and still forbid States to tax it, this
unlikely arrangement would not be presumed unless Congress "clearly manifested" such an intent. 502 U. S., at 263
(internal quotation marks and citation omitted).
The Court of Appeals thus erred in concluding that our
holding in Yakima turned on the Burke Act proviso's express
reference to taxability. Yakima, like Goudy, stands for the
proposition that when Congress makes reservation lands
freely alienable, it is "unmistakably clear" that Congress intends that land to be taxable by state and local governments,
unless a contrary intent is "clearly manifested." 502 U. S.,
at 263.
The foregoing principle controls the disposition of this
case. In §§ 5 and 6 of the Nelson Act, Congress provided for
the public sale of pine lands and agricultural "homestead"
lands by the Federal Government to non-Indians. Congress
thereby removed that reservation land from federal protection and made it fully alienable. Under Goudy and Yakima,
therefore, it is taxable. Indeed, this conclusion flows afortiori from Goudy and Yakima: Those cases establish that Congress clearly intended reservation lands conveyed in fee to
Indians to be subject to taxation; hence Congress surely intended reservation lands conveyed in fee to non-Indiansalso
to be taxable. The Court of Appeals' contrary holding attributes to Congress the odd intent that parcels conveyed to
Indians are to assume taxable status, while parcels sold to
the general public are to remain tax exempt.
The Band essentially argues that, although its tax immunity lay dormant during the period when the eight parcels
were held by non-Indians, its reacquisition of the lands in

114

CASS COUNTY v. LEECH LAKE BAND OF
CHIPPEWA INDIANS

Opinion of the Court

fee rendered them nontaxable once again. We reject this
contention. As explained, once Congress has demonstrated
(as it has here) a clear intent to subject the land to taxation
by making it alienable, Congress must make an unmistakably clear statement in order to render it nontaxable. See
County of Yakima v. Confederated Tribes and Bands of
Yakima Nation, 502 U. S., at 263 (citing Goudy v. Meath,
supra, at 149). The subsequent repurchase of reservation
land by a tribe does not manifest any congressional intent to
reassume federal protection of that land and to oust state
taxing authority-particularly when Congress explicitly relinquished such protection many years before.
Further, if we were to accept the Leech Lake Band's argument, it would render partially superfluous §465 of the Indian Reorganization Act. That section grants the Secretary
of the Interior authority to place land in trust, to be held by
the Federal Government for the benefit of the Indians and
to be exempt from state and local taxation after assuming
such status:
"The Secretary of the Interior is authorized, in his
discretion, to acquire, through purchase, relinquishment,
gift, exchange, or assignment, and interest in lands ...

within or without existing reservations.., for the purpose of providing land for Indians....
"Title to any lands ...

shall be taken in the name of

the United States in trust for the Indian tribe or individual Indian for which the land is acquired, and such lands
...shall

be exempt from State and local taxation."

25

U. S. C. §465.
In §465, therefore, Congress has explicitly set forth a procedure by which lands held by Indian tribes may become tax
exempt. It would render this procedure unnecessary, as far
as exemption from taxation is concerned, if we held that taxexempt status automatically attaches when a tribe acquires
reservation land. The Leech Lake Band apparently realizes

Cite as: 524 U. S. 103 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

this, because in 1995 it successfully applied to the Secretary
of the Interior under §465 to restore federal trust status to
seven of the eight parcels at issue here. See Complaint 18
and Affidavit of Joseph F. Halloran in support of Plaintiff's
Motion for Summary Judgment, in Civ. No. 5-95-99, V (DC
Minn.); Tr. of Oral Arg. 9.5

When Congress makes Indian reservation land freely
alienable, it manifests an unmistakably clear intent to render
such land subject to state and local taxation. The repurchase of such land by an Indian tribe does not cause the
land to reassume tax-exempt status. The eight parcels at
issue here were therefore taxable unless and until they were
restored to federal trust protection under § 465. The judgment of the Court of Appeals with respect to those lands
is reversed.
It is so ordered.
5

The Leech Lake Band and the United States, as amicus, also argue
that the parcels at issue here are not alienable-and therefore not taxable-under the terms of the Indian Nonintercourse Act, which provides:
"No purchase, grant, lease, or other conveyance of lands ... from any
Indian nation or tribe... shall be of any validity in law or equity, unless
the same be made by treaty or convention entered into pursuant to the
Constitution." 25 U. S. C. §177.
This Court has never determined whether the Indian Nonintercourse
Act, which was enacted in 1834, applies to land that has been rendered
alienable by Congress and later reacquired by an Indian tribe. Because
the parcels at issue here are not alienable-and therefore not taxableunder the terms of the Indian Nonintercourse Act, which provides: "No
taxation if it remains freely alienable", and because it was not addressed
by the Court of Appeals, we decline to consider it for the first time in this
Court. See, e. g., MatsushitaElec. Indus. Co. v. Epstein, 516 U. S. 367,
379, n. 5 (1996) (declining to address issue both because it was "outside
the scope of the question presented in this Court" and because "we generally do not address arguments that were not the basis for the decision
below").

