OCTOBER TERM, 1954.
349 U. S.

Syllabus.

LAWLOR ET AL., TRADING AS INDEPENDENT
POSTER EXCHANGE, v. NATIONAL SCREEN

SERVICE CORP.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COUTRT OF APPEALS
THIRD CIRCUIT.
FOR TE

No. 163.

Argued February 9-10, 1955.-Decided June 6, 1955.

In 1942, alleging that the defendants had conspired to establish a
monopoly in the distribution of motion picture advertising material,
petitioners and others brought an antitrust action for treble damages and injunctive relief against National Screen and three motion
picture producers who had granted exclusive licenses to National
Screen to manufacture and lease such material. In 1943, pursuant
to a settlement made before trial and without any findings of fact
or law having been made, that action was dismissed "with prejudice"
and sublicenses were granted by National Screen to the plaintiffs.
In 1949, petitioners brought a similar action against the same defendants, plus five additional motion picture producers, alleging
that settlement of the 1942 suit was merely a device used to
perpetuate the conspiracy and moncpoly, that the five additional
producers had since joined the conspiracy, and that National Screen
had deliberately made slow and erratic deliveries under the sublicense in an effort to destroy petitioners' business and had used
tie-in sales and other means of exploiting its monopoly power.
Petitioners sought damages for only those injuries sustained after
the 1943 judgment. Held: The 1949 action was not barred by the
1943 judgment under the doctrine of res judicata. Pp. 323-330.
(a) Since the 1943 judgment was not accompanied by findings,
it did not bind the parties on any issue-such as the legality of
the exclusive license agreements or their effect on petitioners' business-which might arise in connection with another cause of action.
Pp. 326-327.
(b) Whether the defendants' conduct be regarded as a series of
individual torts or as one continuing tort, the two suits were not
based on the same cause of action, and the 1943 judgment does not
bar the 1949 suit. Pp. 327-328.
(c)A different result is not required by the fact that the 1942
complaint sought, in addition to treble damages, injunctive relief

LAWLOR v. NATIONAL SCREEN SERVICE.

323

Opinion of the Court.

322

which, if granted, would have prevented the illegal acts now
complained of. Pp. 328-329.
(d) With respect to the five defendants who were not parties

to the 1942 suit, moreover, their relationship to the other defendants
was not close enough to bring-them within the scope of the doctrine
of res judicata. Pp. 329-330.
211 F. 2d. 934,.reversed.

Francis Anderson argue d the. cause and filed a brief for
petitioners.
Louis Nizer argued the cause and filed a brief for the
National Screen Service Corporation, respondent.
Earl G %Harrison argued the cause for the Columbia
Pictures Cotporation et al., respondents. With him on
the brief were Win. A. chnader and Edward W. Mullinix
for Loew's Incorporated et al., and Louis J. Goffman'
for Warner Bros. Pictures" Distributing Corporation,
respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WARREN

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This is an action to recover treble damages for alleged
violation of the federal, antitrust laws.- The only question presented is whether the action is barred, in the
circumstances of the case, under the doctrine of res
judicata.
Petitioners are engaged *, the business of leasing
advertising posters to motion picture exhibitors in the
Philadelphia area. Such posters, known in thetrade as
standard accessories, embody copyrighted matter from
the motion pictures being advertised. Until recent years,
standard accessories could be purchased directly from the
motion picture companies themselves. Beginning with
Paramount in 1939, however, the eight major producers
granted to National Screen Service Corporation the exclusive right to manufacture and distribute various advertis340907 0

- 55 - Z7

OCTOBER TERM, 1954.
Opinion of the Court.

349 U. S.

ing materials, including standard accessories as well as
specialty accessories and film trailers, for their motion
pictures. RKO followed in 1940, Loew's in 1942, Universal in 1944, Columbia in 1945, United Artists and
Warner Brothers in.1946, and 20th Century Fox.in 1947.
In 1942, together with a number of others in similar
businesses, petitioners commenced a treble-damage antitrust action against National Screen and the three producers who had already granted exclusive licenses to National Screen. The complaint alleged that the defendants
had conspired to establish a monopoly in the distribution
of standard accessories by means of the exclusive licenses
and that the plaintiffs' businesses had been injured as a
consequence. The complaint also alleged that National
Screen was then negotiating with the other major producers to procure similar licenses. In addition to. damages, an injunction was sought against the defendants'
"illegal acts and practices."
In 1943, prior to any trial, the suit was settled. The
basis of the settlement was an agreement by National
Screen to furnish the plaintiffs with all standard accessories distributed by National Screen pursuant to its
exclusive license agreements with producers, including
exclusive license agreements which might be executed in
the future. In exchange, the plaintiffs agreed that they
would withdraw the suit and that they would pay
National Screen for the materials at specified prices.
Pursuant to the settlement, the suit was dismissed
"with prejudice' by court order. No findings of fact or
law were made.
The sublicense was to run three years. In 1946 it was
renewed for another five-year term. In 1949, while the
sublicense was still in force, petitioners brought the instant action, again seeking treble damages and injunctive
relief. Named as defendants-respondents here-were

LAWLOR v. NATIONAL SCREEN SERVICE.
322

-

325

Opinion of the Court.

National Screen, the three producers who were parties to
the 1942 suit, and the five producers who licensed National
Screen subsequent to the dismissal of the 1942 suit.
In their present complaint, petitioners allege that the
settlement of the 1942 suit was -merely a device used by
the defendants in that case to perpetuate theirconspiracy
and monopoly. They also allege: that five other producers haxe joined the conspiracy since 1943; that
National Screen has deliberately made slow and erratic
deliveries of advertising materials under the sublicense
in an effort to destroy petitioners' business; 'andthat, for
the same purpose National Screen has used tie-in' sales
and other means of exploiting its monopoly power.1 Petitioners seek damages for resulting injuries suffered from
August 16, 1943-in other words, for a period beginning
several mohths after the dismissal of the 1942 complaint.
In 1951, on petitioners' motion for summary judgment,
the District Court held that petitioners were entitled to
injunctive relief against National Screen because the undisputed facts supported petitioners' claim of unlawful
monopoly.' As to the producers, however, the District
Court held that conflicting evidence on the issue of
conspiracy made a trial necessary.8 But in 1953, before
any trial was held and before a decree against National
Screen could be framed, the defendants moved to dismiss
the action, on the ground that the 1943: judgment was
res judicata. The District Court, another judge then
sitting, granted the mofion and the Court of Appeals
"Defendant NATIONAL, illegally and vwith intent to destroy
plaintiff's business, deliberately re duces 'the rental price of said motion picture talking ',trailers to exhibitors if said exhibitors, including
plaintiff's customers, agree beforehand 'to purchase or lease for the
exploitation of all of their films exhibited, standard accessories and
advertising materials directly from 'the defendant NATIONAL."
2 99 F. Supp. 180, 188.
3
Ibid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1954.
Opinion of the Court.

349 U. S.

for the Third Circuit affirmed.' We granted certiorari
because of the importance of the question thus presented
in the enforcement of the federal antitrust laws.'
The basic distinction between the doctrines of res,
judicata and collateral estoppel, as those terms are used
in this case, has frequently been emphasized.' Thus,
under the doctrine of 'res judicata, a judgment "on the
merits" in a prior suit involving the same parties or
their privies bars a second suit based on the same cause
of action. Under the doctrine of collateral estoppel, on
the other hand, such a judgment precludes relitigation
of issues actually litigated and determined in the prior
suit, regardless of whether it was based on the same cause
of action as the second suit. Recognizing this distinction,
the court below concluded that "No question of collateral
estoppel by the former judgment is involved because the
case was never tried and there was not, therefore, such
finding of fact which will preclude the palties to that
litigation from questioning the finding thereafter."I
Turning then to the doctrine of res judicata, the court
correctly stated the question before it as "whether the
plaintiffs in the present suit are suing upon the 'same
cause of action' as that upon which they sued in 1942 and
lost." 8, -The court answered the question in the affirmative on the ground that the two suits were based on "essentially the same course of wrongful conduct." ' The court
211 F. 2d 934.
5348 U. S. 810.
6 E. g., Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351,.352-353; United
States v. Moser,266 U. S. 236, 241. See also Restatement, Judgments,
§§ 47, 48, 68. The term res judicata is used broadly in the Restatement to cover merger, bar, collateral estoppel, and direct estoppel.
Id., c. 3, Introductory Note.
T211 F. 2d 934, 935.
8
Ibid.
9
Id., at 936.
4

LAWLOR v. NATIONAL SCREEN SERVICE.
322

327

Opinion of the Court.

acknowledged that "there are some additional allegations,
some new acts which the plaintiffs say the defendants
have done since the earlier suit" and that "Additional
defendants were joined in the 1949 suit," but concluded
"inofsubstance the complaint is the same . .,,10
that
It is
course true that the 1943 judgment dismissing
the previous suit "with prejudice" bars a later suit on the
same causeof action. 1 '"It.islikewise true that the judgment was unaccompanied by findings and hence did not
bind the parties on any issue-such as the legality of the
exclusive license agreements or their effect on petitioners'
business-which might arise in connection with -another
cause of action." To this extent we are in accord'with
the decision below. We believe, however, that the court
erred in concluding that the 1942 and 1949 suits were
based on the same cause of action.
That both suits involved "essentially the same course
of wrongful conduct" is not decisive. Such a course of
conduct-for example,- an abatable nuisance-may fre10 Id., at 936-937.

11 United States v. Parker, 120 U. S. 89, 95; United States v. InternationalBuilding Co., 345 U. S. 502,506.
112Sge United States v. InternationalBuilding-Co., supra, at 505:
"We conclude that the decisions entered by the Tax Court for the
years .1933, 1938, and 1939 were only a pro foryma acceptance by the
Tax Court of an agreement between the parties to settle their controversy for reasons undisclosed. There is no showing either in-,the
record or by extrinsic evidence (see. Russell v. Place, 94 U. S. 606,
608) that the issues raised by the pleadings were submitted to the
Tax Court for determination or determined by that court. They
may or may not have been agreed upon'by the parties. Perhaps, as
the Court of Appeals inferred, the parties did agree on the basis

for depreciation. Perhaps the settlement was made for a different
reson, for some exigency arising out of the bankruptcy proceeding.
As the base reaches us, we are unable to tell whether the agreement
of the parties was based on the merits 'or on some collateral
consideration."

I

OCTOBER TERM, 1954.
Opinion of the Court.

349 U. S.

quently give rise to more than a single cause of action."
And so it is here. The conduct presently complained of
was all subsequent to the 1943 judgment." In addition,
there are new antitrust violations alleged here-deliberately slow deliveries and tie-in sales, among others-notpresent in the former action. While the 1943 judgment
precludes recovery on claims arising prior to its entry, it
cannot be given the effect of extinguishing claims which
did notfven then exist and which could not possibly have
been sued upon in the previous case. In the interim,
moreover, there was a substantial change in the scope of
the defendants alleged monopoly; five other producers
had granted exclusive licenses to National Screen, with the
result that the defendants' control over the market for
standard accessories had increased to nearly 100%." 5
Under these circumstances, whether the defendants' conduct be regarded as a series of individtral torts or as one
continuing tort, the 1943 judgment does not constitute
a bar to the instant suit.
This conclusion is unaffected by the circumstance that
the 1942 complaint sought, in addition to treble damages,
injunctive relief which, if granted, would have prevented
the illegal acts now complained of. A combination of
'3 Restatement, Judgments, § 62, Comment g.
Antitrust violations
are expressly made abatable. 15 U. S. C. § 26.
14 Restatement, Judgments,, § 62, Comment g.
Compare Federal

Trade Commission v. Raladam Co., 316 U. S. 149, 150-151.
15 99 F. Supp. 180, 183-184. The complaint in the 1942 suit alleged
that .40% of National Screen's business in standard accessorip consisted of standard accessories for the motion pictures of two (Paramount and RKO) of the three defendant producers. The complaint
also alleged that 20% to 33% of the plaintiffs' business consisted of
standard accessories for the motion pictures of the third defendant
producer (Loew's). As to the pertinence of "the percentage of
business controlled," see 'United States v. Columbia Steel Co., 334
U. S. 495, 527-528.
'

LAWLOR v. NATIONAL SCREEN SERVICE.
322

329

Opinion of the Court.

facts constitutingtwo or more causes of action on the law
side of a court does not congeal into a single cause of
action merely because equitable relief is also sought. And,
as already noted, a prior judgment is res judicataonly as
to suits involving the same cause of action.'
There is no
merit, therefore, in the respondents' contention that petitioners are precluded by their failure in the 1942 suit to
press their demand for injunctive relief. Particularly is
this so in view of the public interest in vigilant enforcement of the antitrust laws through the instrumentality of
the private treble-damage action. Acceptance of the
respondents' novel contention would in effect confer on
themg a partial immunity from civil liability for future
violations. Such a result is consistent with neither the
antitrust laws nor the doctrine of res judicata.
With respect to the five.defendants who were not parties
to the 1942suit, there is yet a second ground for our decision. The court below held that their relationship to the
other defendants was "close enough to bring them all
within the scope of the doctrine of res judicata." 17 With
this conclusion, we cannot agree. We need not stop. to
consider the outer bounds of the rule of privity and allied
concepts." It is sufficient here to point out that the
five defendants do not fall within the orthodox categories
of privies; 1" that they could not have been joined in
the 1942 case since they did not even enter the alleged
conspiracy until after the judgment on which they now
16 That the same rule is applicable in equity, see Restatement,
Judgments, § 46, Comment b; id., § 53, Comment c.
17211 F. 2d 934, 937.
I See Restatement, Judgments, c. 4.
19 Restatement; Judgments, § 83, Comment a:
"those who control an action although not parties to it . . . ; those
whose interests are represented by a party to the action . . . ; successors in interest .... "

OCTOBER TERM, 1954.
Opinion of the Court.

349 U. S.

rely; " that in any event there was no obligation to join
them in the 1942 case since as joint tortfeasors they were
not indispensable parties; 21 and that their liability was
not "altogether dependent upon the'culpability" of the
defendants in the 1942 suit.22
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and
the case is remanded to the District Court for further
proceedings in conformity, with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUsTIcE HARLAN

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

20

OCompare Bruszewski v. United States, 181 F. 2d 419 (C. A. 3d

Cir.), on which both courts below relied. It should also be noted
that the Bruazewski decision was an application of collateral estoppel
and not res judicata as that term is used here.
2f Restatement, Judgments, §-94.
See Bigelow v. Old Dominion
Copper Co., 225 U. S.111, 132.
22

Id., at 127.

