OCTOBER TERM, 1954.
Syllabus.

349 U. S.

RICE v. SIOUX CITY MEMORIAL PARK
CEMETERY, INC. ET AL.
ON PETITION FOR REHEARING.

No. 28.

Decided May 9, 1955.

In a case involving questions arising under the Constitution of the
United States which had been decided adversely to petitioner by
the Supreme Court of Iowa and which apparently were of public
importance, this Court granted a writ of certiorari. After argument, the decision of the Supreme Court of Iowa was affirmed by
an equally divided Court. Upon consideration of a petition for
rehearing before a full Court, it appeared that an Iowa. statute
enacted since the commencement of this litigation bars the ultimate
question presented in this case from again arising in that State,
though the statute is inapplicable to petitioner's case. Held: The
petition for rehearing is granted, the judgment of affirmance is
vacated and the writ of certiorari is dismissed as improvidently
granted, since this case is not one in which "there are special and
important reasons" for granting a writ of certiorari, as required by
Rule 19 of the Rules of this Court. Pp. 71-80.
(a) This Court does not sit for the benefit of the particular
litigants. P. 74.
(b) "Special and important reasons" imply a reach to a problem
beyond the academic or the episodic. P. 74.
(c) This is especially true in cases involving constitutional
questions. P. 74.

(d) It is very important that this Court be consistent in not
granting the writ of certiorari except in cases involving principles
the settlement of which is of importance to the public, as distinguished from that of the parties. P. 79.
Rehearing granted; judgment, 348 U. S. 880, vacated; and certiorari
dismissed.

Neil R. McCluhan and Lowell C. Kindig for petitioner.

RICE v. SIOUX CITY CEMETERY.
70

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an action for damages brought by plaintiff, petitioner here, in the District Court of Woodbury County,
Iowa, to compensate her for mental suffering claimed
to flow from defendant cemetery's refusal to bury her
husband, a Winnebago Indian, after services had been
conducted at the grave site and the burial party had
disbanded. Plaintiff founded her action, so far as here
relevant, on breach of a contract whereby defendant had
undertaken to afford plaintiff "Right of Sepulture" in a
specified lot of its cemetery. The contract of sale of the
burial lot also provided that
"burial privileges accrue only to members of the
Caucasian race."
Plaintiff asserted that this provision was void under both
the Iowa and the United States Constitutions and that
recognition of its -validity would violate the Fourteenth
Amendment. By an amendment to the complaint, plaintiff also claimed a violation of the United Nations Charter.
The defense was anchored in the validity of the clause
as a bar to this action.
After an abortive attempt to remove the case to the federal courts, 102 F. Supp. 658, defendants moved to dismiss
the amended petition in the state court. This motion was
denied, except that. insofar as the amendment to the
petition had relied on the United Nations Charter, the
amendment was dismissed. Following Iowa procedure,
the trial court entertained motions by both parties requesting it to adjudicate- prior to trial points of law
relating to the effect of the restrictive covenant. The
Iowa court ruled that the clause was not void but was
unenforceable as a violation of the Constitutions and
public policy of Iowaand the United States. Neverthe-

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1954.

OOinion of the Court.

349 U.S.

less, it held that the clause "may be relied upon as a
defense" and that "the action of a State or Federal court
in permitting a defendant to stand upon the terms of its
contract and to defend this action in court would not constitute state or federal action" contrary to the Fifth and
Fourteenth Amendments. It again ruled that the United
Nations Charter was irrelevant, and the case was finally
dismissed.
The Supreme Court of Iowa affirmed, reasoning that
the decision of this Court in Shelley v. Kraemer, 334
U. S. 1, when considered in conjunction with the Civil
Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3, did not require a state court
to ignoresuch a provision in a contract when raised as a
defense and in effect to reform the contract by enforcing
it without regard to the clause. The court further ruled
that the provisions of the United Nations Charter "have
no bearing on the case" and that none of the grounds
based on local law sustained the action.
245 Iowa 147,
60 N. W. 2d 110. We granted certiorari, 347 U. S. 942.
The basis for petitioner's resort to this Court was
primarily' the Fourteenth Amendment, through the Due
Process and Equal Protection Clauses. Only if a State
deprives any person or denies him enforcemerft of a right
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment can its protection be invoked. Such a claim involves the threshold
problem whether, in the circumstances of this case, what
Iowa, through its courts, did amounted to "state action."
This is a complicated problem which for long has divided
opinion in this Court. See, e. g., Raymond v. Chicago
Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20; Snowden v, Hughes, 321
U. S. 1; Terry v. Adams, 345 U. S. 461. See also,
Barrows v. Jackson, 346 U. S. 249. Were this hurdle
cleared, the ultimate substantive question, whether in
the circumstances of this case the aetion complained of
was condemned by the Fourteenth Amendment, would in
turn present no easy constitutional problem..

RICE v. SIOUX CITY CEMETERY.
70

Opinion of the Court.

The case was argued here and the stark fact is that the
Court was evenly divided. 348 U. S. 880. In accordance
with undeviating practice, no indication was given regarding the grounds of this division.
In addition to the familiar though vexing problems of
6onstitutional law, there was reference in the opinions of
the Iowa courts and in the briefs of counsel to the United
Nations Charter. The Iowa courts dismissed summarily
the claim that some of the general and hortatory language
of this Treaty, which so far as the United States is concerned is itself an exercise of the treaty-making power
under the Constitution, constituted a limitation on the'
rights of the States and of persons otherwise reserved to
them under the Constitution. It is a redundancy to add
that there is, of course, no basis for any inference that the
division of this Court reflected any diversity of opinion
on this question.
Following our affirmance by necessity of the decision
of the Iowa Supreme Court, a petition was filed for a
rehearing before a full Court. In our consideration of
this petition our attention has now been focused upon an
Iowa statute enacted since the commencement of this"
litigation. Though it was in existence at the time the
case first came here, it was then not seen in proper focus
becuse blanketed by the issues of "state action" and
constitutional power for which our interest was enlisted.
This Iowa statute bars the ultimate question presented
in this case from again arising in that State. In light
of this fact and the standards governing the exercise of our
discretionary power of review upon writ of certiorari, we
have considered anew whether this case is one in which
"there are special and important reasons" for granting the
writ of certiorari, as required by Supreme Court Rule 19.
This Rule, formulated thirty years ago, embodies the
criteria, developed ever since the Evarts Act of 1891,. by
which the Court determines whether a particular case

OCTOBER TERM, 1954.
Opinion of the Court.

349 U. S.

merits consideration, with due regard to the proper functioning of the limited reviewing power to which this
Court is confined, decisively restricted through the creation of the intermediate Courts of Appeals and more
largely confined by the Judiciary Act of 1925. In illustrating the character of reasons which may be deemed
"special and important," the Rule refers to cases
"Where a state court has decided a federal question
of substance not theretofore determined by this court,
or has decided it in a way probably not in accord
with applicable decisions of this court."
A federal question raised by a petitioner may be "of substance" in the sense that, abstractly considered, it may
present an intellectually interesting and solid problem.
But this Court does not sit to satisfy a scholarly interest
in such issues. Nor does it sit for the benefit of the
particular litigants. (Magnum Import Co. v. Coty, 262
U. S. 159, 163; see also Address of Mr. Chief Justice Vinson, before the American Bar Association, Sept. 7, 1949, 69
Sup. Ct. v, vi; Address of Mr. Chief Justice Hughes, before
the American Law Institute, May 10, 1934, XI Proc. Am.
Law Inst. 313.) "Special and important reasons" imply
a reach to a problem beyond the academic or the episodic.
This is especially true where the issues involved reach
constitutional dimensions, for then there comes into play
regard for tho Court's duty to avoid decision of constitutional issues unless avoidance becomes evasion. Cf. the
classic rules for such avoidance stated by Mr. Justice
Brandeis in Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority,
297 U. S. 28S, 341.
In the present case, certiorari was granted, according
to our practice, because at least four members of the
Court deemed that despite the rather unique circumstances of this case Iowa's willingness to enforce this
restrictive covenant rendered it "special and important."

RICE v. SIOUX CITY CEMETERY.
70

Opinion of the Court.

We were unmindful at the time of Iowa's corrective legislation and of its implications. While that statute had
been cited in the opinion of the Iowa Supreme Court,.
without quotation, in tangential support of a substantive
argument, and while similar passing references appear in
respondent's briefs in opposition to the petition and on
the merits, it was not even suggested as a ground for
opposing the grant. Its importance was not put in identifying perspective, and it did not emerge to significance
in the sifting process through which the artnual hundreds
of petitions for certiorari pass. Argument at the Bar was
concerned with other issues and the even division of the
Court forestalled that intensive study attendant upon
opinion-writing which might well have revealed the crucial relevance of the statute.
These oversights should not now be compounded by
further disregard of the impact of this enactment when
viewed in the light of settled Iowa law, not previously
brought to our attention, concerning its effect upon
private litigation. The statute provides:
"SECTION"

1. Any corporation or other form of

organization organized or engaging in the business
under the laws of the state of Iowa, or wheresoever
organized and engaging in the business in the state
of Iowa, of the ownership, maintenance or operation
of a cemetery . . . except . . .churches or religious
or established fraternal societies; or incorporated
cities or towns or other political subdivisions of the
state of Iowa . . .shall be subject to the provisions
of this chapter.
"SEc. 8. It shall be unlawful for any organization subject to the provisions of thischapter to deny
the privilege of interment of the remains of any
deceased person in any cemetery . . . solely because

OCTOBER TERM, 1954.
Opinion of the Court.

349 U. S.

of the race or color of such deceased person. Any
contract, agreement, deed, covenant, restriction or
charter provision at any time entered into, or by-law,
rule or regulation adopted or put in force, either
subsequent or prior to the effective date of this
chapter, authorizing, permitting or requiring any
organization subject to the provisions of this chapter
to deny such privilege of interment because of race
or color of such deceased person is hereby declared to
be null and void and in conflict with the public policy
of this state ...
"SEc. 9. Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter, shall, upon
conviction, be punishable by a fine of not less than
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00).
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall affect
the rights of any parties-to any pending litigation.
"SEc.

"Approved April 21, 1953."
Iowa Laws 1953,
c. 84; Iowa Code Ann. (1954 Cum. Supp.)
ยง 566A. 1-11.
As a result of this Act, in any other case arising under
similar circumstances not only would the statutory penalties be applicable, but also, under Iowa law, one in
petitioner's position would be entitled to recover damages
in a civ;il action based on a violation ofthe statute. See
Humburd v. Crawford, 128 Iowa 743, 105 N. W. 330;
Brown v. J. H. Bell Co., 146 Iowa 89, 123 N. W. 231, 124
N. W. 901; Amos v. Prom, Inc., 117 F. Supp. 615 (D. C.
N ,D. Iowa).
'Had-the statute been properly brought to our attention
and the case thereby put into proper focus, the case would
have assumed such an isolated significance that it would

RICE v. SIOUX CITY CEMETERY.
Opinion of the Court.

70

hardly have been brought here in the first instance.1 Any
adjudication of the constitutional claims pressed by petitioner would now be an adjudication under circumstances
not promotive of the very social considerations which evidently inspired the Iowa Legislature to provide against
the kind of discrimination of which complaint is here
made. On the one hand, we should hesitate to pass jdgment on Iowa for unconstitutional action, were sued to
be found, when it has already rectified any possible error.
On the other hand, we should not unnecessarily discourage such remedial action by possible condonation of this
isolated incident. Moreover, the evident- difficulties of
the case suggest that, in the absence of compelling reason,
we should not risk inconclusive and divisive disposition
of a case when time may further illumine or completely
outmode the issues in dispute.
Such factors are among the many which must be
weighed in the exercise of that "sound judicial discretion"
which Rule 19 requires. We have taken this opportunity
to explain their relevance, when normally, for obvious
reasons in view of our volume of business, no opinion
accompanies dismissal of a writ as improvidently granted,
because of the apt illustration here provided of the kinds
of considerations, beyond those listed by Rule 19 as illustrative but not exhaustive, which preclude adjudication on
the merits of cases which may have the surface appearance
of public importance.
We are therefore of the opinion that this Court's order
of November 15, 1954, affirming by an equally divided
Courtfthe decision of the Iowa Supreme Court, must be
vacated and the writ of certiorari dismissed as improvidently granted. There is nothing unique about such
I

'Cf. District of Columbia'v. Sweeney, 310 U. S. 631, where certiorari was denied "in view of the fact that the tax is laid under a
statute which has been repealed and the question is therefore not of
'
public importance."

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1954.
Opinion of the Court.

349 U. S.

dismissal even after full argument. There have been
more than sixty such cases and on occasion full opinions
have accompanied the dismissal.' The circumstances of
this case may be different and more unusual. But this
2

United States v. Rimer, 220 U. S. 547; Furness, Withy & Co. v.

Yang-Tsze Ins. Assn., 242 U. S. 430; Tyrrell v. District of Columbia,
243 U. S. 1; Houston Oil Co. v. Goodrich, 245 U. S. 440; Layne &
Bowler Corp. v. Western Well Works, Inc., 261 U. S. 387; Southern
Power Co. v. North CarolinaPub. Serv. Co., 263 U. S. 508; Keller v.
Adams-Campbell Co., 264 U. S. 314; Davis v. Currie, 266 U. S.
182; Erie R. Co. v. Kirkendall, 266 U. S. 185; Southern California
Edison Co. v. Herminghaus, 275 U. S. 486; Mellon v. McKinley, 275
U. S. 492; Missouri-K.-T. R. Co. v. Texas, 275 U. S. 494; Ellison v.
Koswig, 276 U. S. 598; Johnson v. Thornburgh, 276 U. S. 601; Carter
Oil Co. v. Eli, 277 U. S. 573; Standard Pipe Line Co. v. Commissioners, 278 U. S. 558; Seaboard Air Line R. Co. v. Johnson, 278 U. S.
576; New York, Chicago & St. L. R. Co. v. Granfell, ibid.; Empire"
Gas & Fuel Co. v. Saunders, 278 U. S. 581; Virginian R. Co. V. Kirk,
278 U. S. 582; Wallace v. Motor Products Corp., 279, U,. S. 859;
Sutter v. Midland Valley R. Co., 280 U. S. 521; Angla & LondonParis Nat. Bank v. Consolidated Nat. Bank, 280 U..S. 526; qulf,
Mobile & N. R. Co. v. Williams, ibid.; Wisconsin Electric Co. V..
Dumore Co., 282 U. S. 81); Adam v.?New York Trust Co., 282A. S.
814; Director of Lands v. Villa-Abrille, 283 U.-S. 785;'Sanez v.Borras, 283 U. S. 798; Elgin, Joliet & E. R. Co. v. 0hurchill, 284
U. S. 589; Snowden v. Red River Drainage Dist., 284 U. S. 592,;
Lang v. United States, 286 U. S. 523; FranklinrAmerican _Trust Co.
v. St. Louis Union Trust Co., 286 U. S. 533; Louisville & Nashville
R. Co. v. Parker, 287 U. S. 569; Sevier Commission Co. 1v. Wallowa
Nat.'Bank, 287 U. S. 575; Fort Smith Sub. R. Co. v. Kansas City So.
R. Co., 288 U. S. 587; Boynton v. Hutchinson Gas Co., 292 U. S. 601;
Lynch v. New York, 293 U. S. 52; Hunt v. Western Casualty Co.,
293 U. S. 530; Fox Film Corp. v. Muller, 294 U. S. 696; State Automobile Ins. Assn. v. Glick, 294 U. S. 697; Moor v. Texas & N. 0. R.
Co., 297 U. S. 101, Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Neill, 302 U. S. 645; Aetna
Ins. Co. v. Illinois Central R. Co., 302 U. S. 652; Tax Commission v.
Wilbur, 304 U. S. 544; Goodman v. United States, 305 U. S. 578;
Goins v. United States, 306 U. S. 622; McGoldrick v. Gulf Oil Corp.,
309 U. S. 2; Utilities Ins. Co. v. Potter, 312 U. S. 662; Harris v.
Zion's Savings Bank, 313 U. S. 541; Jones v. Opelika, 315 U. S. 782;

RICE v. SIOUX CITY CEMETERY.
70

Opinion of the Court.

impressive practice proves that the Court has not hesitated to dismiss a writ even at this advanced stage where
it appears on further deliberation, induced by new
considerations, that the case is not appropriate for adjudication. In the words of Mr. Chief Justice Taft,
speaking for a unanimous Court:
"If it be suggested that as much effort and time as
we have given to the consideration of the alleged
conflict would have enabled us to dispose of the case
before us on the merits, the answer is that iVis very
important that we be consistent in not granting the
writ of certiorari except in cases involving principles
the settlement of which is of importance to the public
as distinguished from that of the parties, and in cases
where there is a real and' embarrassing conflict of
opinion and authority between the circuit courts of
appeal." Layne & Bowler Corp. v. Western Well
Works, Inc., 261 U. S. 387, 393.
The petition for rehearing is granted., The order of this
Court of November 15, 1954, affirming by necessity the
Gorman v. Washington University, 316 U. S. 98; McCullough v.
Kammerer Corp., 323 U. S. 327; McCarthy v. Bruner, 3 U. S. 673;
White v. Ragen, 324 U. S. 760; Woods v. Nierstheimer,328 U. S.211;
Phyle v. Duffy, 334 U. S. 431; Hedgebeth v. North Carolina, 334
U. S.806; Superior Court v. Lillefioren, 335 U. S.906; Loftui,v.
Illinois, 337 U. S.935; Parker v. Los Angeles, 338 U. S.327; Hammerstein v. Superior Court, 341 U. S. 491; Stembridge v. Georgia, 343
U. S.541; Edelman v. California, 344 U. S.357; Bentsen v. Blackwell, 347 U. S. 92&; California ex rel. Brown v. St. Louis Union Trust
Co., 348 U. S.932. This list is not to be deemed comprehensive.
Only in the light of argument on the merits did it become clear
in these numerous cases that the petitions for certiorari should not
have been granted.- In some instances an asserted conflict turned
out to be illusory; in others, a federal question was wanting or decision could be rested on a non-federal ground; in a number, it became
manifest that the question was of importance merely to the litigants
and did not present an issue of immediate public significance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1954.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

349 U. S.

judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa is vacated and
the writ of certiorari is dismissed as improvidently
granted.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

with whom

THE CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS join, dissenting.
We think that only very unusual circumstances can
justify dismissal of cases on the ground that certiorari was
improvidently granted. Our objections to such dismissals are stronger when, as here, a case has already been
argued and decided by the Court. We do not agree that
the. circumstances relied on by the Court justify this
dismissal. We granted certiorari because serious questions were raised concerning a denial of the equal protection of the laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. Those questions remain undecided. The Court
dismisses the case because the Iowa Legislature has
provided that every person in Iowa except one who has
already filed a suit can prosecute claims like this. Apparently this law leaves everyone in Iowa free to vindicate
this kind of right except the petitioner., This raises
a new question of denial of equal protection of the laws
equally as grave as those which prompted us to take this
case originally. We cannot agree that this dismissal is
justified merely because this petitioner is the only one
whose rights may have been unconstiLutionally denied.

