A. & P. TEA CO. v. SUPERMARKET CORP.

147

GREAT ATLANTIC & PACIFIC TEA CO. v. SUPERMARKET EQUIPMENT CORP.
CERTIORARI

TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 32. Argued October 18-19, 1950.--Decided December 4, 1950.
Claims 4, 5 and 6 of the Turnham patent No. 2,242,408, for a cashier's
counter and movable frame for "cash and carry' grocery stores,
held invalid for want of invention. Pp. 148--154.
(a) The extension of the counter alone was not sufficient to sustain the patent, unless, together with the other old elements, it made
up a new combination patentable as such. Pp, 149-150.
(b) The mere combination of a nunber of old parts or elements
which, in combination, perform or produce no new or different
function or operation than that theretofore perf'lrmed or produced
by them, isnot patentable invention. 1'.
151.
(c) This patentee has added nothing to the total stock of knowledge, but has merely brought together segments of prior art and
claims them in congre'gation as a monpnoy. P. 153.
(d)Commercial success without invention does not make patentability. P. 1.3.
(e) The concurrence of the two court below in holding the
patent claims valid does not preclu ,Ithis (.'ourt from overruling
them, where, as in this eas, a standard of invention appears to
have been used that is less exacting than that required where a
combination is made up entirely of old eoritonents. Pp. 153-154.
179 F. 2d 636, reversed.

The District Court sustained the validity of certain
patent claims. 78 F. Supp. 388. The Court of Appeals
affirmed. 179 F. 2d 636 This Court granted certiorari.
339 U. S. 947. Reversed, p. 154.
John H. Glaccum argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief was Edwin J. Balluff.
Townsend F. Beaman argued the cause for respondent,
With him on the brief was Lloyd W. Patch.

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Opinion of the Court.

340 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Two courts below have concurred in holding three patent claims to be valid,' and it is stipulated that, if valid,
they have been infringed. The issue, for the resolution of
which we granted certiorari,' is whether they applied correct criteria of invention. We hold that they have not,
and that by standards appropriate for a combination
patent these claims are invalid.
I Claimsn 4, 5, and 6 of the Turnhain patent No. 2,242,408, which are
involved in the controversy, read as follows:
"4. A checker's stand including a counter of the character described,
an open bottom pusher frame thereon, means to guide said frame in
sliding movement so that goods placed on the end of said counter
within said frame may be pushed along the counter in a group to a
position adjacent the checker by movement of said frame.
"5. A cashier's counter for cash and carry type of grocery comprising a portion spaced from the cashier's stand and upon which the
merchandise may be deposited and arranged, a bottomless three sided
frame on said portion and within which the merchandise is deposited
and arranged, means whereby said frame is movable on said counter
from said portion to a position adjacent the cashier's stand so that the
merchandise may thus be moved as a group to a point where it may
be conveniently observed, counted and registered by the cashier.
"6. A cashier's counter for cash and carry type of grocery comprising a portion spaced from the cashier's stand and upon which the
merchandise may be deposited and arranged, a bottomless frame on
said portion and within which the merchandise is deposited and
arranged, means whereby said frame is movable on said counter from
said portion to a position adjacent the cashier's stand so that the merchandise may thus be moved as a group to a point where it may be
conveniently observed, counted and registered by the cashier, said
frame being open at the end adjacent the cashier's stand and readily
movable to be returned over said portion so as to receive the merchandise of another customer while the cashier is occupied with the
previous group."
2 339 U. S. 947.

A. & P. TEA CO. v. SUPERMARKET CORP.
147

149

Opinion of the Court.

Stated without artifice, the claims assert invention of
a cashier's counter equipped with a three-sided frame, or
rack, with no top or bottom, which, when pushed or
pulled, will move groceries deposited within it by a customer to the checking clerk and leave them there when
it is pushed back to repeat the operation. It is kept on
the counter by guides. That the resultant device works
as claimed, speeds the customer on his way, reduces
checking costs for the merchant, has been widely adopted
and successfully used, appear beyond dispute.
The District Court explicitly found that each element
in this device was known to prior art. "However," it
found, "the conception of a counter with an extension to
receive a bottomless self-unloading tray with which to
push the contents of the tray in front of the cashier was a
decidedly novel feature and constitutes a new and useful
combination."'
The Court of Appeals regarded this finding of invention
as one of fact, sustained by substantial evidence, and
affirmed it as not clearly erroneous. It identified no other
new or different element to constitute invention and overcame its doubts by consideration of the need for some such
device and evidence of commercial success of this one.
Since the courts below perceived invention only in an
extension of the counter, we must first determine whether
they were right in so doing. We think not. In the first
place, the extension is not mentioned in the claims, except, perhaps, by a construction too strained to be consistent with the clarity required of claims which define
the boundaries of a patent monopoly. 38 Stat. 958, 35
U. S. C. ยง 33; United Carbon Co. v. Binney & Smith Co.,
317 U. S. 228; General Electric Co. v. Wabash Corp., 304
3 Finding of Fact No. 15 of District Judge Picard, whose opinion
appears at 78 F. Supp. 388.

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Opinion of the Court.

340 U. S.

U. S. 364. In the second place, were we to treat the
extension as adequately disclosed, it would not amount
to an invention. We need not go so far as to say that
invention never can reside in mere change of dimensions
of an old device, but certainly it cannot be found in mere
elongation of a merchant's counter---a contrivance which,
time out of mind, has been of whatever length suited the
merchant's needs. In the third place, if the extension
itself were conceded to be a patentable improvement of
the counter, and the claims were construed to include it,
the patent would nevertheless be invalid for overclaiming
the invention by including old elements, unless, together
with its other old elements, the extension made up a new
combination patentable as such. Bassick Mfg. Co. v.
Hollin.gshead Co., 298 U. S. 415, 425; Carbice Corp. v.
American Patents Development Corp., 283 U. S. 27.
Thus, disallowing the only thing designated by the two
courts as an invention, the question is whether the combination can survive on any other basis. What indicia of
invention should the courts seek in a case where nothing
tangible is new, and invention, if it exists at all, is only
in bringing old elements together?
While this Court has sustained combination patents,'
it never has ventured to give a precise and comprehensive
definition of the test to be applied in such cases. The
voluminous literature which the subject has excited discloses no such test.' It is agreed that the key to patent4 E. g., Keystone Mfg. Co. v. Adams, 151 U. S. 139; Diamond Rubber Co. v. Consolidated Tire Co., 220 U. S. 428.
5The Index to Legal Periodicals reveals no less than sixty-four
articles relating to combination patents and the theory and philosophy
underlying the patent laws. Among the many texts are 1 Walker on
Patents (Deller's ed. 1937) ; Stedman, Patents; Toulmin, Handbook of
Patents; Merwin, Patentability of Inventions; Amdur, Patent Law
and Practice; and 1 Roberts, Patentability and Patent Interpretation.

A. & P. TEA CO. v. SUPERMARKET CORP.
147

151

Opinion of the Court.

ability of a mechanical device that brings old factors into
cooperation is presence or lack of invention. In course of
time the profession came to employ the term "combination" to imply its presence and the term "aggregation" to
signify its absence, thus making antonyms in legal art of
words which in ordinary speech are more nearly synonyms.
However useful as words of art to denote in short form
that an assembly of units has failed or has met the examination for invention, their employment as tests to determine invention results in nothing but confusion. The
concept of invention is inherently elusive when applied to
combination of old elements. This, together with the
imprecision of our language, have counselled courts and
text writers to be cautious in affirmative definitions or
rules on the subject.6
The negative rule accrued from many litigations was
condensed about as precisely as the subject permits in
Lincoln Engineering Co. v. Stewart-Warner Corp., 303
U. S. 545, 549: "The mere aggregation of a number of
old parts or elements which, in the aggregation, perform
or produce no new or different function or operation than
that theretofore performed or produced by them, is not
patentable invention." To the same end is Toledo
6 With respect to the word "invention," Mr. Justice Brown said:
"The truth is the word cannot be defined in such manner as to afford
any substantial aid in determining whether a particular device involves
an exercise of the inventive faculty or not. In a given case we may
be able to say that there is present invention of a very high order. In
another we can see that there is lacking that impalpable something
which distinguishes invention from simple mechanical skill. Courts,
adopting fixed principles as a guide, have by a process of exclusion
determined that certain variations in old devices do or do not involve
invention; but whether the variation relied upon in a p~articular case is
anything more than ordinary mechanical skill is a question which
cannot be answered by applying the test of any general definition."
31cClain v. Ortmayer, 141 U. S. 419, 427.

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Opinion of the Court.

340 U. S.

Pressed Steel Co. v. Standard Parts, Inc., 307 U. S. 350,
and Cuno Engineering Corp. v. Automatic Devices Corp.,
314 U. S. 84. The conjunction or concert of known elements must contribute something; only when the whole in
some way exceeds the sum of its parts is the accumulation
of old devices patentable. Elements may, of course, especially in chemistry or electronics, take on some new quality
or function from being brought into concert, but this is not
a usual result of uniting elements old in mechanics. This
case is wanting in any unusual or surprising consequences
from the unification of the elements here concerned, and
there is nothing to indicate that the lower courts scrutinized the claims in the light of this rather severe test.
Neither court below has made any finding that old elements which made up this device perform any additional
or different function in the combination than they perform out of it. This counter does what a store counter
always has done-it supports merchandise at a convenient
height while the customer makes his purchases and the
merchant his sales. The three-sided rack will draw or
push goods put within it from one place to another-just
what any such a rack would do on any smooth surfaceand the guide rails keep it from falling or sliding off from
the counter, as guide rails have ever done. Two and two
have been. added together, and still they make only four.
Courts should scrutinize combination patent claims
with a care proportioned to the difficulty and improbability of finding invention in an assembly of old elements. The function of a patent is to add to the sum of
useful knowledge. Patents cannot be sustained when, on
the contrary, their effect is to subtract from former resources freely available to skilled artisans. A patent for
a combination which only unites old elements with no
change in their respective functions, such as is presented
here, obviously withdraws what already is known into

A. & P. TEA CO. v. SUPERMARKET CORP.
147

153

Opinion of the Court.

the field of its monopoly and diminishes the resources
available to skillful men. This patentee has added nothing to the total stock of knowledge, but has merely brought
together segments of prior art and claims them in congregation as a monopoly.
The Court of Appeals and the respondent both lean
heavily on evidence that this device filled a long-felt want
and has enjoyed commercial success. But commercial
success without invention will not make patentability.
Toledo Pressed Steel Co. v. Standard Parts, Inc., supra.
The courts below concurred in finding that every element
here claimed (except extension of the counter) was known
to prior art. When, for the first time, those elements were
put to work for the supermarket type of stores, although
each performed the same mechanical function for them
that it had been known to perform, they produced results
more striking, perhaps, than in any previous utilization.
To bring these devices together and apply them to save
the time of customer and checker was a good idea, but
scores of progressive ideas in business are not patentable,
and we conclude on the findings below that this one
was not.
It is urged, however, that concurrence of two courts
below, in holding the patent claims valid, concludes this
Court. A recent restatement of the "two-court rule"
reads, "A court of law, such as this Court is, rather than
a court for correction of errors in fact finding, cannot
undertake to review concurrent findings of fact by two
courts below in the absence of a very obvious and exceptional showing of error." Graver Tank Co. v. Linde Co.,
336 U. S. 271, 275. The questions of general importance
considered here are not contingent upon resolving conflicting testimony, for the facts are little in dispute. We
set aside no finding of fact as to invention, for none has
been made except as to the extension of the counter, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
DOu;LAS, J., concurring.

340 U. S.

cannot stand as a matter of law. The defect that we find
in this judgment is that a standard of invention appears
to have been used that is less exacting than that required
where a combination is made up entirely of old components. It is on this ground that the judgment below is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

with whom MR.

JUSTICE BLACK

agrees, concurring.
It is worth emphasis that every patent case involving
validity presents a question which requires reference to
a standard written into the Constitution. Article I, ยง 8,
contains a grant to the Congress of the power to permit
patents to be issued. But, unlike most of the specific
powers which Congress is given, that grant is qualified.
The Congress does not have free rein, for example, to
decide that patents should be easily or freely given. The
Congress acts under the restraint imposed by the statement of purpose in Art. I, ยง 8. The purpose is "To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts .

. . ."

The

means for achievement of that end is the grant for a limited time to inventors of the exclusive right to their
inventions.
Every patent is the grant of a privilege of exacting tolls
from the public. The Framers plainly did not want those
monopolies freely granted. The invention, to justify a
patent, had to serve the ends of science-to push back the
frontiers of chemistry, physics, and the like; to make a
distinctive contribution to scientific knowledge. That is
why through the years the opinions of the Court commonly have taken "inventive genius" as the test.* It
*-Inventive genius"--Mr. Justice Hunt in Reckendorfer v. Faber,
92 U. S. 347, 357; "Genius or invention"-Mr. Chief Justice Fuller in
Smith v. Whitman Saddle Co., 148 U. S. 674, 681; "Intuitive genius"Mr. Justice Brown in Potts v. Creager, 155 U. S. 597, 607; "Inventive

A. & P. TEA CO. v. SUPERMARKET CORP.
147

DOUGLAS,

155

J., concurring.

is not enough that an article is new and useful. The
Constitution never sanctioned the patenting of gadgets.
Patents serve a higher end-the advancement, of science.
An invention need not be as startling as an atomic bomb
to be patentable. But it has to be of such quality and
distinction that masters of the scientific field in which it
falls will recognize it as an advance. Mr. Justice Bradley
stated in Atlantic Works v. Brady, 107 U. S. 192, 200, the
consequences of a looser standard:
"It was never the object of those laws to grant a
monopoly for every trifling device, every shadow of a
shade of an idea, which would naturally and spontaneously occur to any skilled mechanic or operator
in the ordinary progress of manufactures. Such an
indiscriminate creation of exclusive privileges tends
rather to obstruct than to stimulate invention. It
creates a class of speculative schemers who make it
their business to watch the advancing wave of improvement, and gather its foam in the form of patented monopolies, which enable them to lay a heavy
tax upon the industry of the country, without contributing anything to the real advancement of the
arts. It embarrasses the honest pursuit of business
with fears and apprehensions of concealed liens and
unknown liabilities to lawsuits and vexatious accountings for profits made in good faith."
The standArd of patentability is a constitutional standard; and the question of validity of a patent is a question
of law. Mahn v. Harwood, 112 U. S. 354, 358. The
Court fashioned in Graver Mfg. Co. v. Linde Co., 336 U. S.
genius"-Mr. Justice Stone in Concrete Appliances Co. v. Gomery,
269 U. S. 177, 185; "Inventive genius"-Mr. Justice Roberts in
Mantle Lamp Co. v. Aluminum Products Co., 301 U. S. 544, 546;
Cuno Corp. v. Automatic Devices Corp., 314 U. S. 84, 91, "the flash
of creative genius, not merely the skill of the calling."

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
DOUGLAS,

J., concurring.

340 U. S.

271, 275, a rule for patent cases to the effect that this
Court will not disturb a finding of invention made by two
lower courts, in absence of a very obvious and exceptional
showing of error. That rule, imported from other fields,
never had a place in patent law. Having served its purpose in Graver Mfg. Co. v. Linde Co., it is now in substance rejected. The Court now recognizes what has long
been apparent in our cases: that it is the "standard of
invention" that controls. That is present in every case
where the validity of a patent is in issue. It is that question which the Court must decide. No "finding of fact"
can be a substitute for it in any case. The question of
invention goes back to the constitutional standard in every
case. We speak with final authority on that constitutional issue as we do on many others.
The attempts through the years to get a broader, looser
conception of patents than the Constitution contemplates
have been persistent. The Patent Office, like most administrative agencies, has looked with favor on the opportunity which the exercise of discretion affords to expand
its own jurisdiction. And so it has placed a host of
gadgets under the armour of patents-gadgets that obviously have had no place in the constitutional scheme of
advancing scientific knowledge. A few that have reached
this Court show the pressure to extend monopoly to the
simplest of devices:
Hotchkiss v. Greenwood, 11 How. 248: Dc- ' nob made
of clay rather than metal or wood, where different shaped
door knobs had previously been made of clay.
Rubber-Tip Pencil Co. v. Howard, 20 Wall. 498: Rubber caps put on wood pencils to serve as erasers.
Collar Co. v. Van Dusen, 23 Wall. 530: Making collars
of parchment paper where linen paper and linen had previously been used.

A. & P. TEA CO. v. SUPERMARKET CORP.
147

DOUGLAS,

157

J., concurring.

Brown v. Piper, 91 U. S. 37: A method for preserving
fish by freezing them in a container operating in the same
manner as an ice cream freezer.
Reckendorfer v. Faber, 92 U. S. 347: Inserting a piece
of rubber in a slot in the end of a wood pencil to serve as
an eraser.
Dalton v. Jennings, 93 U. S. 271: Fine thread placed
across open squares in a regular hairnet to keep hair in
place more effectively.
Double-PointedTack Co. v. Two Rivers Mfg. Co., 109
U. S. 117: Putting a metal washer on a wire staple.
Miller v. Foree, 116 U. S. 22: A stamp for impressing
initials in the side of a plug of tobacco.
Preston v. Manard, 116 U. S. 661: A hose reel of large
diameter so that water may flow through hose while it is
wound on the reel.
Hendy v. Miners' Iron Works, 127 U. S. 370: Putting
rollers on a machine to make it moveable.
St. Germain v. Brunswick, 135 U. S. 227: Revolving cue
rack.
Shenfield v. Nashawannuck Mfg. Co., 137 U. S. 56:
Using flat cord instead of round cord for the loop at the
end of suspenders.
Florsheim v. Schilling, 137 U. S. 64: Putting elastic
gussets in corsets.
Cluett v. Claflin, 140 U. S. 180: A shirt bosom or dickey
sewn onto the front of a shirt.
Adams v. Bellaire Stamping Co., 141 U. S. 539: A lantern lid fastened to the lantern by a hinge on one side
and a catch on the other.
Patent Clothing Co. v. Glover, 141 U. S. 560: Bridging
a strip of cloth across the fly of pantaloons to reinforce
them against tearing.
Pope Mfg. Co. v. Gormully Mfg. Co., 144 U. S. 238:
Placing rubber hand grips on bicycle handlebars.

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
DOUGLAS,

J., concurring.

340 U. S.

Knapp v. Morss, 150 U. S. 221: Applying the principle
of the umbrella to a skirt form.
Morgan Envelope Co. v. Albany Perforated Wrapping
Paper Co., 152 U. S. 425: An oval rather than cylindrical
toilet paper roll, to facilitate tearing off strips.
Dunham v. Dennison Mfg. Co., 154 U. S. 103: An
envelope flap which could be fastened to the envelope in
such a fashion that the envelope could be opened without
tearing.
The patent involved in the present case belongs to this
list of incredible patents which the Patent Office has
spawned. The fact that a patent as flimsy and as spurious as this one has to be brought all the way to this
Court to be declared invalid dramatically illustrates how
far our patent system frequently departs from the constitutional standards which are supposed to govern.

