BLAU v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

BLAU v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 22.

Argued November 7, 1950.-Decided December 11, 1950.

1. It is a violation of the Fifth Amendment to compel L witness
who objects on the ground of self-incrimination to testify before
a grand jury in response to questions concerning his employment
by the Communist Party or intimate knowledge of its operations
when there is in effect a statute such as the Smith Act, 18 U. S. C.
ยง 2385, making it a crime to advocate, or to affiliate with a group
which advocates, overthrow of the Government by force. Pp.
159-161.
2. It is immaterial whether answers to the questions asked would
have been sufficient standing alone to support a conviction when
they would have furnished a link in the chain of evidence needed
in a prosecution of the witness for violation of (or conspiracy
to violate) the Smith Act. P. 161.
180 F. 2d 103, reversed.

Petitioner was adjudged guilty of contempt of court
for refusing, on the ground of possible self-incrimination,
to answer certain questions before a federal grand jury
and later before a federal district court. The Court of
Appeals affirmed. 180 F. 2d 103. This Court granted
certiorari. 339 U. S. 956. Reversed, p. 161.
Samuel D. Menin argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
Solicitor General Perlman argued the cause for the
United States. With him on the brief were Assistant
Attorney General McInerney, John F. Davis and J. F.

Bishop.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
In response to a subpoena, petitioner appeared as a

witness before the United States District Court Grand
Jury at Denver, Colorado. There she was asked several
910798 0-51-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Opinion of the Court.

340 U. S.

questions concerning the Communist Party of Colorado
and her employment by it.' Petitioner refused to answer
these questions on the ground that the answers might tend
to incriminate her. She was then taken before the district
judge where the questions were again propounded and
where she again claimed her constitutional privilege
against self-incrimination and refused to testify. The
district judge found petitioner guilty of contempt of court
and sentenced her to imprisonment for one year. The
Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit affirmed. 180 F.
2d 103. We granted certiorari because the decision appeared to deny rights guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment.' The holding below also was in conflict with
recent decisions of the Fifth and Ninth Circuits. Estes
v. Potter, 183 F. 2d 865; Alexander v. United States, 181
F. 2d 480.
At the time petitioner was called before the grand jury,
the Smith Act was on the statute books making it a crime
among other things to advocate knowingly the desirability
of overthrow of the Government by force or violence; to
organize or help to organize any society or group which
IThe grand jury's questions which petitioner refused to answer
were as follows: "Mrs. Blau, do you know the names of the State
officers of the Communist Party of Colorado?" "Do you know what
the organization of the Communist Party of Colorado is, the table of
organization of the Communist Party of Colorado ?" "Were you
ever employed by the Communist Party of Colorado?" "Mrs. Blau,
did you ever have in your possession or custody any of the books and
records of the Communist Party of Colorado?" "Did you turn the
books and records of the Communist Party of Colorado over to any
particular person?" "Do you know the names of any persons who
might now have the books and records of the Communist Party of
Colorado?" "Could you describe to the grand jury any books and
records of the Communist Party of Colorado ?"
2 The Fifth Amendment provides: "No person . . . shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself ..
U. S. Const., Amend. V.

BLAU v. UNITED STATES.
159

Opinion of the Court.

teaches, advocates or encourages such overthrow of the
Government; to be or become a member of such a group
with knowledge of its purposes.3 These provisions made
future prosecution of petitioner far more than "a mere
imaginary possibility . . . ." Mason v. United States,
244 U. S. 362, 366; she reasonably could fear that criminal charges might be brought against her if she admitted
employment by the Communist Party or intimate knowledge of its workings. Whether such admissions by themselves would support a conviction under a criminal
statute is immaterial. Answers to the que.f:,lons asked
by the grand jury would have furnished -, link in the
chain of evidence needed in a prosecution of petitioner
for violation of (or conspiracy to violate) the Smith
Act. Prior decisions of this Court have clearly established that under such circumstances, the Constitution
gives a witness the privilege of remaining silent.
The attempt by the courts below to compel petitioner to
testify runs counter to the Fifth Amendment as it has
been interpreted from the beginning. United States v.
Burr, 25 Fed. Cas., Case No. 14,692e, decided by Chief
Justice Marshall in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Virginia; Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142
U. S. 547; Ballmann v. Fagin, 200 U. S. 186; Arndstein
v. McCarthy, 254 U. S. 71; Boyd v. United States, 116
U. S. 616; cf. United States v. White, 322 U. S. 694, 698,
699.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE CLARK

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

3 62

Stat. 808, 18 U. S. C. ยง 2385.

