MOORE v. CHESAPEAKE & 0. R. CO.

573

Opinion of the Court.

MOORE, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. CHESAPEAKE &
OHIO RAILWAY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTH

No. 318.

CIRCUIT.

Argued January 4, 1951.-Reargued January 10, 1951.Decided February 26, 1951.

In this action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act to recover
for the death of a brakeman, there was no evidence of negligence
on the part of the railroad, and the District Court properly sustained the motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict. Pp.
573-578.
184 F. 2d 176, affirmed.

The case is stated in the opinion.
is affirmed, p. 578.

The judgment below

Geo. E. Allen argued the cause and filed a brief
petitioner.
Meade T. Spicer, Jr. and Strother Hynes argued
cause on the original argument and Mr. Hynes on
reargument for respondent. With them on the brief
Walter Leake.
MR.

JUSTICE MINTON

for
the
the
was

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This action, brought under the Federal Employers' Liability Act' in the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Virginia on behalf of a surviving
widow and children, charged negligence against respondent railroad in the death of petitioner's decedent, who was
acting in the course of his employment as a brakeman for
respondent at the time of his death. The case was tried
before a jury. At the conclusion of all the evidence, re135 Stat. 65, as amended, 45 U. S. C. §§ 51 et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Opinion of the Court.

340 U. S.

spondent moved for a directed verdict on the ground,
among others, that respondent was not shown to have
been negligent. The District Court reserved decision,
pursuant to Rule 50 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, and submitted the case to the jury, which returned
a verdict for petitioner. Respondent then renewed its
contention by motion for judgment notwithstanding the
verdict, which was sustained, and the action was dismissed on the merits. The Court of Appeals for the
Fourth Circuit affirmed, 184 F. 2d 176, and we granted
certiorari to determine whether the province of the jury
had been invaded by the action of the District Court.
340 U. S. 874.
On September 25, 1948, petitioner's decedent was employed by respondent as a brakeman in respondent's
switching yards at Richmond, Virginia. The day was
fair. At about 3:50 p. m., the crew with which decedent
was working undertook its first car movement of the day.
An engine and tender were headed into Track 12 and the
front end of the engine was coupled onto 33 loaded freight
cars which were to be moved out initially upon the straight
track referred to as the ladder track. The switch at the
junction of Track 12 and the ladder track was properly
aligned for the train to pass onto the ladder track. Who
aligned the switch does not appear.
Decedent gave the signal for the engine to back out of
Track 12 with the cars. It moved out in a westerly direction, with the rear of the tender as the front of the moving train. Decedent was standing on a footboard at the
rear of the tender, his back to the tender; the outer edge
of the footboard was about ten inches in from the outer
edge of the tender and about a foot above the rail. The
engineer was in his seat on the same side of the train as
the footboard on which decedent was standing. The
engineer was turned in the seat and leaning out the side
cab window, looking in the direction in which the train

MOORE v. CHESAPEAKE & 0. R. CO.
573

575

Opinion of the Court.

was moving. Decedent's duty as he rode on the footboard was to give signals to the engineer, who testified
that he could at all times see the edge of the arm and
shoulder of decedent. To be thus seen and in a position
to give signals, decedent had to extend outward beyond
the edge of the tender, supporting himself partly by a
handrail, otherwise the tender, the top of which was
eight feet seven inches above the footboard, would have
obstructed the engineer's view of him altogether.
The engineer testified that as the train approached
Switch 12 at about five miles an hour, having moved ten
or twelve car lengths, he saw decedent slump as if his
knees had given way, then right himself, then tumble
forward in a somersault toward the outside of the track.
The engineer testified that he then made an emergency
stop in an unsuccessful effort to avoid injuring decedent.
The train ran the length of the tender and engine and
about a car length and a half before it stopped at a point
about an engine or car length past the switch on the
ladder track. Decedent died immediately of the injuries
received.
To recover under the Act, it was incumbent upon petitioner to prove negligence of respondent which caused
the fatal accident. Tennant v. Peoria & P. U. R. Co.,
321 U. S. 29, 32. The negligence she alleged was that
respondent's engineer made a sudden and unexpected stop
without warning, "thereby causing decedent to be thrown
from a position of safety on the rear of the tender" into
the path of the train.
It is undisputed that only one stop of the train was
made and that a sudden stop without warning. The
engineer was the only witness to the accident and was
called to testify by petitioner. He testified that he saw
decedent fall from the tender and that he made an emergency stop in an attempt to avoid injuring him. He
testified that he received no signal to stop and had no

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Opinion of the Court.

340 U. S.

reason to stop until he saw decedent fall. When his
attention was directed to the point, the engineer never
wavered in his testimony that decedent was continuously
in his view and in a position to give signals up to the
time he was seen to fall and the emergency stop was
made.
Petitioner attempts to avoid the effect of this by pointing to statements of the engineer which allegedly contradict his testimony that decedent was continuously in his
view. Petitioner relies on testimony and measurements
of an expert witness, and upon the fact that the jury
was permitted to view the engine and tender, to support
the alleged contradiction. As a consequence, it is asserted, the jury was entitled to disbelieve the engineer's
version of the accident and to accept petitioner's.
True, it is the jury's function to credit or discredit all
or part of the testimony. But disbelief of the engineer's
testimony would not supply a want of proof. Bunt v.
Sierra Butte Gold Mng. Co., 138 U. S. 483, 485. Nor
would the possibility alone that the jury might disbelieve
the engineer's version make the case submissible to it.
The burden was upon petitioner to prove that decedent
fell after the train stopped without warning, which was
the act of negligence she charged. Her evidence showed
he fell before the train stopped. The only evidence which
petitioner can glean from this record to support her charge
is the engineer's testimony that there was no one around
the switch as the train approached it, and that he did not
know whether "they" intended to take all of the 33 cars
out of the switch at one time, or to stop and cut off some
of them.2 From this it is said a jury might reasonably
2 'Q. Were you going to take all of those thirty-eight [sic] cars
out at one time through that switch?
"A. I don't know about that. I work by signals. I don't know
whether they intended to put them all out and switch them or to
stop and cut part of them off." R. 30.

MOORE v. CHESAPEAKE & 0. R. CO.
573

577

Opinion of the Court.

infer that the engineer decided to make and did make
an emergency stop which threw decedent from the tender.
However, the engineer's testimony, appearing at the very
same page of the transcript as the statement relied on,
was that he worked by signals; that he had received no
signal to stop or do anything; that in the event he did
not receive a signal he would "[k]eep pulling the cars
on back" until he received a signal, until he "cleared the
switch"-"[p]robably beyond. '
We do not think that
the isolated portion of the engineer's testimony relied on
by petitioner permits an inference of negligence when
placed in its setting of uncontradicted and unequivocal
testimony totally at variance with such an inference.
Hence, all the evidence shows is that decedent fell
before the train stopped. If one does not believe the
engineer's testimony that he stopped after-indeed, because of-the fall, then there is no evidence as to when
decedent fell. There would still be a failure of proof.
To sustain petitioner, one would have to infer from
no evidence at all that the train stopped where and when
it did for no purpose at all, contrary to all good railroading
practice, prior to the time decedent fell, and then infer
3 Supra, n. 2;

"Q. Had you received any signal at that time to stop or to do anything-cut off any of the cars?
"A. No, sir, I had not.
"Q. What were you going to do in the event you didn't receive
any further signals either from the conductor or from Mr. Moore or
from anybody else?
"A. Keep pulling the cars on back until I received a signal.
"Q. And until you cleared the switch, until you cleared No. 12
switch?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. You keep"A. Probably beyond.
"Q. You keep on going?
"A. Yes." R. 30.

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

340 U. S.

that decedent fell because the train stopped. This would
be speculation run riot. Speculation cannot supply the
place of proof. Galloway v. United States, 319 U. S. 372,
395.
Since there was no evidence of negligence, the court
properly sustained the motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict. The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

would

dismiss this writ as

improvidently granted, for reasons set forth by him in
Carter v. Atlanta & St. Andrews Bay R. Co., 338 U. S.
430, 437. See Affolder v. N. Y., C. & St. L. R. Co., 339
U. S. 96, 101.
MR.

JUSTICE REED

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, with whom MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

concurs, dissenting.
The complaint in this case alleged that petitioner's
husband, while performing his duties as a railroad brakeman, was thrown from a footboard at the back of a tender
and killed as a result of a sudden and unexpected stop
made by the engineer. That these allegations, if proved,
supported the jury's finding of negligence is not and could
not be denied. I have no doubt but that the following
evidence was sufficient to justify such a finding and the
verdict for petitioner:
Decedent was an experienced brakeman with respondent railroad, having served in that capacity for about
seven years. On the day of the accident, his duty required
him to ride the footboard on the rear of a tender which
was being moved backwards by an engine coupled to
33 loaded freight cars. The engineer testified that he
suddenly threw the engine into reverse and made an emer-

MOORE v. CHESAPEAKE & 0. R. CO.
573

BLACK,

579

J., dissenting.

gency stop without warning. Decedent's badly broken
and mutilated body was found lying beside the track.
He had died as a result of his injuries.
Unless we are to require the element of proximate
cause to be proved by eye-witness testimony, a reasonable
jury certainly could infer from the foregoing facts that
the sudden stopping of the engine threw the decedent
to his death. Yet the Court apparently ignores this
strong circumstantial evidence by relying upon the engineer's testimony that he made the sudden stop after
he saw the decedent "somersault" off the tender. Of
course, had the jury believed both that the engineer
stopped the train abruptly and that he did so at the time
he said he did, it would have found for respondent. But
as the Court concedes, the jury was not compelled wholly
to accept or wholly to reject the engineer's version. It
was entitled to credit part of his testimony and discredit
the balance, especially since there were noticeable inconsistencies, improbabilities and self-interest in the' engineer's story as to how and when the fall occurred. If
the jury rejected the statement that decedent fell before
the engine stopped, it could find for petitioner on the
basis of the circumstantial evidence previously set out.
The technique used today in depriving petitioner of her
verdict is to frame the issue in terms of "When did the
decedent fall?" and then to hold that petitioner failed
to sustain the burden of proof because she introduced no
eye-witness evidence on this point.* Such a myopic view
loses sight of all the circumstances from which the time
and cause of the fall can be inferred. What the record
shows is that petitioner tried the case on a theory that
*The Court also appears to believe that petitioner should have
proved the engineer's purpose in stopping the train so suddenly. But
whatever was the engineer's purpose, petitioner was entitled to recover
in this case if her husband's death was caused by the sudden, unexpected stop.

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

340 U. S.

decedent's fall resulted from a sudden stopping of the
engine, while respondent asserted the theory that the fall
was due to a heart attack. Although there was some
showing that decedent had been afflicted with heart trouble in the past, respondent failed to produce any evidence
that the body when found gave indications of heart
disease. The jury therefore quite reasonably rejected
respondent's theory for lack of proof. Just as reasonably,
it accepted the petitioner's evidence as proving the allegations of her complaint. In my opinion, the taking of
this verdict from petitioner is a totally unwarranted substitution of a court's view of the evidence for that of a
jury.
I would reverse.

