DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

585

Bandall vs. Hotbard.

RANDALL vs. HOWARD.

1. The owner of mortgaged land made "a friendly arrangement"
with the mortgagee to buy it in, ostensibly for his own use,
but withthe understanding that he was to hold it for the use
of the mortgagor, as if no sale had been made. This was done
to defeat the claim of a third party; and with that view the
mortgagor confirmed the sale. The 'mortgagee and purchaser
-afterwards claimed the land as his own.. Held, That- the
mortgagor cannot sustain a bill in equity to restrain *the
mortgagee from selling fhe land, and to enforce the understanding made before the sale.
party can enforce against the 'other a contract made
Neither
S.
between themselves to injure a third person, in fraud of the
law.
3. Nor will the character of such agreement be changed by showing
that the claim of the third party, whose rights were to be
affected by it was also fraudulent.
4. Where it appears on the face of a bill, that an agreement concerning an interest in lands set up by complainant is in parol,
the defence of the Statute of Frauds may be taken advantage
of on demurrer.
5. This Court has no jurisdiction on appeal to annul, rdvise, oi.
change the decree of a State Court of general jurisdictioni
having complete control of the parties and of the subject-mat.
ter of controversy.
6. Where there is error in the proceedings of such a Court, a re-.
view can be had in the appellate tribunals of the State.
7. Where the decree is sought to be perverted and made the medium
of consummating a wrong, the Court, on petition, or suppleta"
bill, can prevent it.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maryland.
The appellants in this case filed their bill of complaint in the
Circuit Court of the United States, for the District of Maryland,
on the 18th of February, 1859, against the appellee, to which he
demurred, and the Ccurt sustained the demurrer. The' case

SUPREME

COURT.

Randall vs. Howard.
came before the Supreme Court on appeal from this decree
The allegations of the bill are stated in the opinion of the Court
Mr. Mayer, of Maryland, for Appellants.
Mr. Evans and Mr Gale, of Maryland, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS. This is a bill in equity filed in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Maryland
by the appellants against the appellee, who interposed a demurrer, which was sustained by the Court below, and an appeal
was taken to this Court.
The bill states substantially, that the complainant, John Randall, Jr., was on the 6th of April, 1854, largely indebted to the
defendant, to secure which indebtedness both of the complainants
executed a mortgage on lands in Cecil County, Maryland, which
lands were held in trust for the complainant Letitia's benefit for
life. That soon after the mortgage matured the defendant filed
his bill in the Cecil County Circuit Court for foreclosure and
sale; and, on answer filed, a decree was passed on the 15th of
October, 1855, for the sale of the mortgaged lands, time being
given until 9th of October, 1856, to bring the money into Court.
That in April, 1856, in order to defeat an attempt (charged to
be fraudulent) by other parties to obtain possession of part of
the lands mortgaged, it was agreed that the defendant with the
assent of the complainants should petition the Court for an
immediate sale, which was done, and the time for sale changed,
and a friendly arrangement was made with the defendant that
he was to buy the property ostensibly for himself but was really
to hold it in security for the decreed indebtedness, upon the
satisfaction of which the purchase was to enure to the benefit of
the complainant Letitia. That the sale took place on ,14th
October, 1856, and the defendant was the purchaser, (the
"friendly arrangemefit" continuing,) and that the property sold
for less than its value on account of the general understanding
that the sale was merely a formal one and not meant to divest
the estate of the complainants. That the sale was ratified with

DECEMBER TEI,

1862.

587

Randall vs. Howard.
out objection from the complainants, under the assurance from
the defendant that the property should, notwithstanding the
ratification, stand as a security for the amount decreed, which
was to be paid by instalments. That to perfect the form of sale,
and to make it conform to the ostensible title of the. purchaser,
the complainants rented the property of thp defendant. That
having obtained an apparent title, the defendant has fraudulently
determined to act as if he was the real owner, and is claiming
the right to sell, and that through threats he extorted an agree.
ment from the complainants, which was framed and meant to
involve them in the recognition of his title. That the defendant,
in furtherance of his object to oppress, has, by legal -though
irregular process, through the Sheriff of Cecil County, dispoqsessed the complainants.
The prayer of the bill is to restrain the defendant from disposing of the lands, and for the sale of so much of said lands as
may be necessary to pay off the defendant according to the
understanding prior to the purchase, and that the residue of the
lands be conveyed to Mrs. Randall. There is also a prayer for
general relief.
There are two questions presented by this record:
1. Upon the facts stated in this bill, are the complainants
entitled in equity to the relief prayed for?
2. Has this Court jurisdiction ?
The statements of this bill are vague and uncertain, frequently
argumentative, and very rarely plain and direct. The whole
bill lacks definitiveness. Agreements, friendly arrangements
understandings, and fraudulent devices are freely spoken of,but
the character of the agreements and the nature of the devices we
do not learn. The bill seeks to establish a trust for the benefit
of Mrs. Randall, growing out of certain proceedings in the Circuit Court.of Cecil County, Maryland Are the complainants
in a situatton to enforce the trust; if one is established ? We
think not.
The following allegations contain the charges relied on in the
bill to establish the trust:
"And your 6rator and oratrix state, and charge, that auout

SUPREME COURT.
Randall vs. Howard.
April, in the year 1856, in consequence of a fraud being
attempted against your complainants, through devices involving
the possession of part of the land mortgaged as aforesaid, it was
deemed proper for counteracting said fraud, that, on a petition
to be filed by said Howard in the case of said decree, your complainants should assent to a sale, (under friendly arrangements
between said Howard, and then rendering such sale merely
formal and nominal,) taking place forthwith, instead of being
deferred to the period (the next October) provided -bythe decree.
And your complainants aver, that under their answer to such
petition, which was filed, the time for the sale was by decree
thus changed, and under the friendly arrangement and understanding aforesaid, and which was to the effect that said Howard
was to become puir6haser of said mortgaged property at a sale
under the decree, but really to only hold it for securihg the payment of the mortgage and decreed indebtnient as aforesaid, upon
satisfying- which the property it was understood should enure,
as provided by the terms of the said trust, for the benefit of
your oratrix."
These allegations, stripped of their indefiniteness and vague.
ness, mean simply this, that the parties to this bill, in order to
counteract a claim set up by other parties for a portion of the
mortgage lands, combined together, through the aid of the Court,
to shorten the time of sale, and to cover up the real ownership
of the property.
A fraudulent agreement was entered into to defeat, as is
charged, "a fraud attempted against the complainants." If the
claim set up was a fraud on the rights of the complainants, does
that consideration change the character of the agreement which
was made to defeat that fraud? Manifestly not. The whole
complaint of the bill is that the defendant will not execute the
agreement thus fraudulently made, and the object of the bill is
to compel him to do it.
A Court of Eqdity will not intervene to give relief to either
party from the consequences of such an agreement. The maxim
"i*n ari delicto potior est conditio defenclentis" must prevail
It is against the policy of the law to enable either party, in

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

589"

Bandall vs. Howard.
controversies between themselves, to enforce an agreement in
fraud of the law, or which was made to injure another. Story's
Equity, vol. 1, sec. 298; Bait. vs. Rdgers, (2 Paige, 156); Wilson
vs. Vats., ,(9 Gill, 356).
There are several other gTounds decisive against the relief
prayed for. We will, however, notice but one other. There is
no averment in the bill that the defendant ever agreed in writing
to hold the lands in trust for Mrs. Randall. In fact it is manifest
from the whole bill that- the agreement was a mere matter of
conversation between the parties, andl that no memorandum in
writing was ever made. Inasmuch as it concerns an interest in
lands, and -is in parol, it is voia by the Statute of Frauds, and
appearing as it does.on the face of the bill; the defence of the
Statute of Frauds may be taken advantage of. on demurrer.
Walk-er et al. vs. Locke et al., (7.Cushing, 90).
2. Has this Court jurisdiction. A conflict of jurisdiction is
always to be avoided. Mr. Justice Grier, in Pec7 vs. Jenness, (7
Howard, 624), says: "That it is a doctrine of law too long
established to require a citation of authorities, that where A
Court has jurisdiction it has a right to decide every question
which occurs in the cause, and whether its decision be correct or
otherwise, its judgment, till reversed, is regarded as bhinding on
every other Court.
"These rules have their foundation not merely in comity, but.
on necessity. For if one may enjoin the other may retort by
injunction, and this the parties be without remedy, being liable
to a process for contempt in one if they dare to proc~ed in the
other."
The bill in this case brings in review various- matters pascd
on in the progress of a suit by the Cecil County Circuit Court, a
Court of general jurisdiction having complete control of the
parties and of the subject matter of controversy.
It seeks to annul a sale of lands made by virtue of a decree
of the Cecil Court, sitting as a Court of Equity in a. cause depending between these same parties; to affect the distribution
of the proceeds of the sale; to enjoin the defendant from making
any disposition of the lands purchased by him; to disturl i

SUPREME COURT.
Nebraska City vs. Campbell.
possession; to invalidate his title, and to have the mortgaged
property resold.
This is a direct and positive interference with the rightful
authority of the State Court.
If there was error in the proceedings of the Court, a review
can be had in the appellate tribunals of the State. If, as is
charged, the decree is sought to be perverted and made the
medium of consummating a wrong, then the Court, on petition
or suppletal bill, can prevent it. If, as appears by the proceed
ings, the surplus-money arising from the s.le is still undisposed
of, then the whole case is under the control of the Court, and no
suppletal even is needed to prevent the wrong.
The decree dismissing the bill is affirmed.

NEBRASKA CITY vs. CAMPBELL.

1. Municipal Corporations upon which the duty is imposed to construct and repair, or to keep in repair streets and bridges, and
upon which is also conferred the means of accomplishing such
duty, are liable for any special damage arising from their
neglect to perform it.
2. In an action for damages sustained by such neglect, evidence
showing the business in which the plaintiff was engaged, its
extent and the consequent loss arising to him from his inability to prosecute it, is relevant and pertinent, as enabling
the jury to fix, with some certainty, the direct and necessaly
damages resulting from his injuries.
Error to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Nebraska.
John T. Campbell brought his action against Nebraska Citv
in the Court of the Second Judicial District for Otoe County.
and alleged in his petition that the defendant, being a municipal
corporation, had, by its chhrter; the title and control of the
streets, alleys, squares, wharves, and other highways and publi,!
grounds within its limits, and was bound to keep them in repair.

