SUPREME COURT.
Bank of Commerce vs. New York City.

Tn's PEOPLE OF NEW YORK ON THE RELATION OF THE BANK 0?
COMMERCE vs. THE COMMISSIONERS OF TAXES FOR THE CITY AND
COUNTY OF NEW YORK.

1. Stock of the United States is not subject to taxation under the
laws of a State.
2 A State law for that purpose is unconstitutional, whether it
imposes the tax on United States, stock eo nomine, or includes
it in the aggregate of the tax payer's property, to be valued,
like the rest, at its worth.

3. A tax on the nominal capital' of a bank, without regard to the
nature or value of the property composing it, is annexed to
the franchise as a royalty for the grant, and not a burden
imposed on the property itself.
4. But the law of New 'York taxes the capital of banks according

to its valuation, and the property which constitutes it is subject to taxation or entitled to exemption therefrom, like
similar property held by individuals.
5. That portion of its capital which a Now York bank has invested
in the stocks, bonds, or other securities of the United States,
is not liable to taxation by the State.
$. The taxing power, so far as it is reserved to the States, and used
within constitutional limits, cannot be controlled or restrained

by this Court, the prudence of its exercise not being a judicial
question.
7. But a State tax on the loans of the Federal Government is a
restriction upon the constitutional power of the United States
to borrow money, and if the States had such a right, being in
its nature unlimited, it might be so used as to defeat the
Federal power altogether.
Error to the Court of Appeals for the State of New York.
The Bank of Commerce, a corporation in the City of New
York, rendered its statement, according to law, to the Tax
Commissioners, on which the latter were to fix the sum or valuation of property on which the taxation of the Bank was to be
made. By this it appeared that their whole capital was nine
millions one hundred and forty-eight thousand four hundred

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

621

Bank of Commerce vs. New York City.
and eighty dollars, ($9,148,480.00). Of this sum three hundred
and ninety-two thousand two hundred and fourteen dollars and,
eighty-three cents (392,214.83) was invested in real estate, and
the balance, eight millions seven hundred and fifty-six thousand
two hundred and sixty-five dollars and seventeen cents, was all
invested in stocks, bonds and securities of the United States,
which the Bank claimed to be exempt from taxation. The Tax
Commissioners reported the Bank -as subject to assessment and
taxation for the value of its stock, (deducting the value of its
real estate and $20,000 undisputed exemption), at $8,736,265.00,
without regard to its being invested in the public debt of the
United States, but adding that this was not an assessment upon
such public debt, but upon the bank capital.
Thereupon a certiorari was issued to them, according to a
statute of New York, and these facts appeared in the Supreme
Court, and the questions being debated, the Court was of
opinion:
1. As to the public debt held by the Bank, issued to them
prior to the Act of Congress of February 25, 1862, or contracted
for by the Bank with the Government prior to -that date
although issued afterwards, the Bank was liable to taxation, and
ordered the report of the Tax Commissioners to be confirmed to
that extent.
2. As to tha public debt issued after that date, (not contracted
for before,) the Bank was not liable; and the Court ordered the
report in this respect to be annulled and corrected.
The taxable amount of the capitalwas flked at $7,841-265.00.
according to these principles.
From the judgment the Bank appealed to' the Court- of
Appeals, who, on hearing, affirmed the judgment of the Supreme
Court, and a writ of error was thereupon brought to this Court.
fr. Lord, of New York, for Plaintiff in Error.
The Commissioners of Taxation were bound to look into the
components of the capital of the Bank, to ascertain its value and
taxable condition.
And as the Bank was taxable not for its capital specilically,

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of Commerce vs. New York City.
but for its property, real and personal, the character of that
property could not be overlooked by the Tax Commissioners.
And if the United States debt be, in fact, free of State taxation,
it would be mere evasion to tax it in fact, under the general
notion that it was taxed as property merely, and not as United
States debt.
And the plaintiffs in error respectfully insist that the questions in this case are completely covered by the decision of this
Court in Wetson vs. The -Cty of Charleston, (2 Peters' Reports,

449).
But, subject to this claim as to the extent and effect of this
prior decision, and treating the questions as open to discussion;
in deference to the Court of Appeals of New York, the defendants in error submit that, on principle, the public debt of the
United States held by the relators was not subject to taxation
as was done.
The certificates, bonds, and public debt of the United States,
issued under the power of Congress to borrow money, were
means and instruments whereby Congress exercised that power
under the Constitution. The money lent while yet held by the
United States would clearly be free'of State taxation in whatever form. This amount, therefore, is clearly out of the State
power of taxation. The action of the Tax Commissioners is to
.ring this back under the State taxation by taxing the creditor's
title to its repayment or return. And this title and right is distinctly a means whereby the United States procure the use of
the money or property which they obta:n.
Being a means adopted by Congress to carry out one of its
sovereign powers, the State power of taxation does not extend
to it. .Brown vs. State of Maryland,(12 Wheat. R., 419); .McCul"loch vs. State of Maryland,(4 Wheat. R., 316, p. 425); Osborn vs.
Bank of United States, (9 Wheat. R., 738, p. 859); Dobbins vs.
Erie County, (16 Pet. R., 435).
If the State power extended to the means of carrying out the
United States power, not only would a conflict of powers be
possible; but, if the State power be admitted, that of the United
States might be defeated.

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

623

Bank of Qom.merce vs. New York City.
It is not a case of concurrent powers, either of borrowing or
of taxing. The power exercised by the United States is that
of borrowing; there is no. conflict with the State power of bor.rowing.
There is no conflict in the powers respectively of taxing; both
the United States and the State may tax all articles of taxation
to which their powers extend.
But the conflict is, that the State attempts to apply its power
of taxing in restraint and diminution- of the United States
power of borrowing. Unless it shall be claimed that the State
power of taxing may reach all property within its geographical
limits, whether owned by the United States or others, so that"
there can be no property whatever within State limits out of its
reach, such power must be deemed a limited one, and excluded
from all application to the property of the United States. The.
State power of taxation is a sovereign power within the scope
to which it extends, and within this limit it admits of no super7..
Corns.
vision or control. See The Peolple vs. City of Brooklyn, (4.
R., 422, based on 4 Pet. R.,514, p. 553, and 4 Wheat. R., 430).If, therefore, it embrace .within its limits the means of carrying
out the powers of the United States, it could tax them in an'y
mode it might choose, partially or otherwise, specifically or
otherwise. But it must be conceded that a partial or specific
taxation would be extra vires, and it would then rest with the
Courts of the United States to try the matter of the du and
proper execution bf a sovereign power of a State. This*could
not be done; for if the State power be a sovereign power, the
sovereign body decides for itself both as to the occasion and
mode df its exercise. Accordingly, it is the clearly established
law of the Federal Constitution, in order to avoid all such conflicts, that the powers of the States are not held to apply to the
subjects embraced in the execution of the powers of the United
-States. The power of borrowing. money by the United States
being a sovereign power, Congress alone is to determine the
occasions on which it is to be executed, and also the modes and
means of so doing. The only limit is to be looked for in the
Constitution itself; and no such limit is violated inthe present

624

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of Commerce vs. New York City.

case. Congress may make its securities under seal neg -tiable;
no State law could prevent it. Congress could make if_ obligations valid without stamps; no State could impose a stamp act
on them. Congress can make its obligations bear any rate of
interest it might think fit; no State could render them invalid
as usurious. In all these and numerous other illustrations, the
State power of legislation itself is a sovereign power; and it is
only restricted by reason of the subject being without its limits
by its being the exercise of a power of the United States. As
to the body having a sovereign power being the sole judge of
the occasion of using it, see-3fartin vs. Mott, (12 Wheat. R.,
p. 29). The mode of exercising the power to borrow money by
Congress or the occasion of its exercise, the necessity or propriety of the means, within the limits of the Constitution, are
not open to inquiry in the Courts. Therefore, all the United
States securities held or procured or contrafted for either before
or after the Act of February 25th, 1861, should have been left
out of the valuation for assessment of taxes. By a sound exposition of the Tax Laws of New York, securities of the public
debt of the United States were not subject to be included in the
report'of valuation ' for taxation. The Tax Statutes of New
York, whereby real and personal property within the State are
subjected, to taxation, in terms embrace such property owned by
individuals or coI)-oratiols; now the United States were neither

an individual nbr a corporation within the terms of this law
So that the real and personal property of the United States
itself were not within the express terms of the act nor taxable
under it. The statutes, however, proceed to say, that the liability of property to taxation shall be subject to certain exemptions. In sec. 4, the stating of the exe.mpted property commences with "all property, real or personal, exempted from
taxation under the Constitution of the Unitdd States," and this
is followed by an express exemption "of all lands belonging to
the United States." Now there was no other property exempted
from taxation under the Constitution of the United States, than
the means of carrying out its powers, and there were none of
these then in existence or in contemplation, except the certifi.

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Bank of Commerce vs. Eew York City.
cates of its public debt. This statute with its present general
phrase of exemption, wo.s adopted in 1829. This was the year
when the case of Weston vs. City of Charleston was decided,
after the severe and able opposition of Mr. Justice Thompson,
the Associate. Justice for the circuit in which New York was
embraced. Cotemporaneous history thus leaves no doubt, that
the exemption of property under the Constitution of the United
States had special reference to the United States public debt, the
taxation of which by South Carolina had been. sb decisively
.%nnulled. The Act of Congress of February 25th, 1862, see, 2,
providing "That all stocks, bonds, and other securities of tho
United States, held by individuals, corporations, or' assodia.
tions within the United States, shall be exempt from taxation
by or under State authority, was effectual to exempt all existing
as well as future issues of public debt." See Acts of 1861, '62,.
p. 346. The act in its terms is clearly sufficient to embrace
existing United States securities without any exception.
This clause was evidently produced by the decision of the
Court of Appeals of New York in the case of the Bank of the.
Commonwealth, then just decided, and now under review in this
Court. It is in exact affirmancd of the decision in the case of
Weston vs. City of Charleston. And Congress in it does not.
speak merely as contractors, but as legisla )rs, in the assumption of its fullest powers as such.
It was a declaratory act in affirmance of a principle never
denied since 1829, for more than thirty years. This act is not
to be construed as the assertion of any general power to withdraw any kind whatever of property from State taxation at the
election of Congress; but is to be construed according to the
circumstances under which it was passed. Congress having
reference to a means which had been employed in carrying out
its power to borrow, and with the public knowledge that these
securities had been held as not under.State taxation, it was but
protecting and asserting the supremacy of its power to pass this
statute. If the issuing of this United States debt be within the
scope of the power to borrow, and to determine the means of its
exercise, it was a proper act of legislation The subject being
VOL. IL
40

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of Commerce vs. New York City.

within one of the powers of Congress, they alone were judges
of the fitness of its exercise and of its extent.
It was within the principle of the numerous Acts of Congress, withdrawing from State jurisdiction questions arising
under the Laws of the United States, and titles taken and acts
done under such laws. The act violates no provision of the
Constitution of the United States; it does not interfere with any
vested right. It is in affirmance of a right universally recog.
nized prior to the decision of the Court of Appeals of New
York, then just made.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals in the matter complained of should be reversed, and the proceedings remitted to
that Court, there to be proceeded on according to the law as it
shall be declared by this Court.
Hr. Develin and Mr. Brady, of New York, for Defendants in

Error.
The surplus of stock which was taxed in the case now before
the Court is supposed to be protected by an Act of Congress of
February 25th, 1862, which provides that "all stocks, bonds and
othe-r securitie of the United States, held by individuals,corporations
or associations within the Univd States, shall be exempt from tax
atin by or under State authority."

The Act of 1862 introduces no new rule. It is a mere affir
rpation of what was decided in the cases of the Bank of lfcGul
lough against the State of 3faryland and others of a similar nature.

It exempts from specific taxation all stocks, &c., of the United
States, but does not provide that no taxation shall be imposed
by a State upon the surplus or capital of a bank, to the extent
to which such surplus is represented by United States Stocks,
&c., composing such capital. If this act could bear the latter
construction, it would be unconstitutional and void as a direct
attempt by the general government to interfere with the exclusive power of taxation by a State over corporations created by
it, add property of individuals residing within the State, sharing
the benefits and liability to the burdens of government. If
such an exemption could be extended to the United States Stock

627

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Bank of Commerce vs. Vw York

iy.

by an absolute Act of Congress, there is no reason why it might
not also apply to any other property of the United States, though
sold by the general government in the ordinary course of trade
to a purchaser; and for such exercise of power there is no warrant or pretext under the Federal Constitution. The Federal
Government has no powers except such as are delegated to it by
the Constitution or necessarily implied in powers granted; in
all other respects the States are sovereign. Federalist, Nos. 30
and 33; The Passenger Cases; The Ohio -LfeIns. and Trust Co.

vs. De Bolt, (16 How., 428.) The Constitution itself provides in
its tenth amendment, that "Powers not delegated by the United
States in the Constitution nor prohibited by it to the States are
reserved to the States respectively or to the people." The
general and State goveirnments have respectively the power to
levy taxes for their own appropriate uses without in any way
interfering or having the right to interfere with the just powers
of each other. (1 Story on the Constitution, Sec. 1034.)
There is nothing in the State Laws repugnant to the power
of Congress to borrow money.
The exercise of this power involves three elements, a borrower, a lender, and an agreement as to the terms of the loan.
The loan is a matter of contract and Congress may acquire the
means of payment by the exercise of its power "to levy and
collect taxes,, duties, imposts, and excises," -a power given for
th6 express purpose of paying the debts and other charges of the
Federal Government. The power of Congress to borrow money
in terms is limited to borrowng "on the credit of the United

.States," and does not include the right to use the credit of, nor
create a charge upon, nor restrict the means of self support of
any State. The authority of Congress "to make all laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the
foregoing powers and all other powers vested by this Constitution" to the Federal Govenment cannot effect this question.
This is not an independent power to do something not otherwise
provided for, but a delegation which includes all the necessary
and proper means of carrying it into execution. (Story on the
Copstitution, See. 1237 and 1243.) It cannot be maintained

SUPREME

COURT.

Bank of Commerce vs. New York City.
that in exercising the power to borrow money on the credit of
the United States it is necessary to take away from a State a
vital power to levy taxes for maintaining its authority and for
the support of its government.
The general clause of the Constitution just referred to is in
fact a restriction prohibiting extreme means, -and limiting the
government to those which are necessary and proper. The Act
of 1862 is enacted uno flatu. It is incapable of division and
must upon its terms and just construction stand or fall in all its
provisions. It extends to all stocks, &c., though they might
have been issued and acquired by' individuals years before thp
passage of the law, and is equally retro-active and prospective
in i;s operation. The State banks cannot claim an exemption
under the law of 1862. The condition of their existence is that
they shall bear a share of the public burdens. They were formerly taxed on the nominal amount of their capital stock, how
ever it might be invested, or whatever might become of it, and
now are taxable on the value of that stock. The Legislature
might have required the banks to pay a specified sum annually
for their privileges, though five times as much as their share of
the public burdens, and clear.r Congress would have no power
to interfere. Providence Ban/c vs.
, (4 Peters, pp. 561 and
562); State Bank of Ohio vs. Ka6oop, (16 Peters, p. 387.)
The judgment of the Supreme Court should be affirmed
except as to the point that stocks issued after the passage of the
Act of 1862 are exempt from taxation.
Mr. Justice NELSON. This is a writ of error to the Court
of Appeals of the State of New York.
The question involved in this case is, whether or not the stcck
of the United States. constituting a part or the whole of the
capital stock of a bank organized under the banking laws of
New York, is subject to State taxation. The capital of the bank
is taxed under existing laws in that State upon valuation like
the property of individual citizens, and not as formerly on the
amount of the nominal capital, without regard to loss or depreriation.

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

629

Bankc of Commerce vs. New York City.
According to ;hat system of taxation it was immaterial as to
the character or description of property which constituted the
capital, as the tax imposed was wholly irrespective of it: The
tax was like one annexed to the franchise as a royalty for the
grant. But since the change of this system,'it is agreed the tax
is upon the property constituting the capital.
This stock then is held by the bank the same as such stocks
are held by individuals, and alike subject to taxation, or exemption by State authority. On the part of the bank it is claimed
that the question was decided in the case of Weston, et als. vs.
The City Councils of Charleston, (2 Peters, 449,) in favor of
exemption. In that case the stocks were in the hands of individuals which were taxed by the city authorities under a law
of the State. The Court held the law imposing the tax unconstitutional. This decision would seem nbt only to cover the
case before us, but to determine the very point involved in it.
It has been argued, however, that the form or mode of levying
the tax under the ordinance of the City of Charieston was different from that of the law of ' ew York, and hence may well
distinguish the case and its principles from the present one.
This difference consists in the circumstance that the tax in the
former case was imposed on the stock, eo nomine, whereas in the
present it is taxed in the aggregate of the tax payer's property,
and to be valued at its real worth in the same manner as all
other items of his taxable property. The stock is not taxed by
name, and no discrimination is made in favor or against it, but
is regarded like any other security for money or chose in
action.
It is true that the ordinance imposing the tax in the case of
Weston vs. The Cty of Charleston, did discrininate letween the
stock of the United States and other property-that is, the
ordinance did not purport to impose a tax upon all the property
owned by the tax payers of the City, and specially excepted
certain property altogether from taxation. The only uniformity
in the taxation was, that it was levied equally upon the articles
enumerated, and which were taxed. - To this extent it might be
regarded as % tax on the stock eo nomine.
-

SUPREME

COURT.

Bank of Commerce vs. New York City.
But does this distinction thus put forth between the two cases
distinguish them in principle? The argument admits that a tax
eo nomine, or one that distinguishes unfavorably the stock of the
United States from the other property of the tax payer, cannot
be upheld. Why? Because, as is said, if this power to discriminate be admitted to belong to the State it might be
exercised to the destruction of the value of the stock, and consequently of the power or function of the Federal Government to
issue it for any practical uses.
It will be seen, therefore, that the distincton claimed rests
upon a limitation of the exercise of the taxing power of the
State; that if the tax is imposed indiscriminately upon all the property of the individual or corporation, the stock may be included
in the valuation; if not, it must be excluded or cannot be
reached. The argument concedes that the Federal stock is not
subject to the general taxing power of the State. a power resting
in the discretion of its constituted authorities as to the objects of
taxation, and the amount imposed. It is true that in many, if
not in all of the Constitutions of the States, provisions will be
found confining the power of the Legislature to the passage of
uniform laws in the taxation of the real and personal property
within her jurisdiction. But this is a restraint upon the power
imposed by the State itself. In the absence of any such restriction discrimination in the tax would rest in the discretion of the
Legislature. Whether regulated by the Constitution or by the
Act of the Legislature is a question of State policy, to be determined by the people in convention or by the Legislature. In
either case the power to discriminate or not is in the State. How
then can this limitation upon the taxing power of a State, which
the argument assumes may be used to discriminate against the
Federal stdcks be enforced ? The power to enforce it must b
independent of the State to be effectual. There can be but one
answer to this question, and that is: by the supreme judicial
tribunal of the Union. But is this Court a fit tribunal to sit in
judgment upon the question whether the Legislature of a State
has exercised its taxing power wisely or unwisely over objects

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

Sal

Bank of Commerce vs. New York City.
of taxation confessedly, as the argument assumes, within its
discretion?
And is the question a judicial question? We think not.
There is and must always be a considerable latitude of discretion
in every wise Government in the exercise of the taxing power,
both as to the objects and the amount, and of discrimination in
respect to both. Property invested in religious institutions,
seminaries of learning, charitable institutions, and the like, are
examples. Can any Court say that these are discriminations
which, upon the argument that seeks to distinguish the present
from the case of Wleston vs. The City of Charleston, would or
would not take it out of that case? A Court may appropriately
determine whether property taxed was or was not within the
taxing power, but if within, not that the power has or has not
been discreetly exercised. We cannot, therefore, yield our
assent to the soundness of the distinction taken by the counsel
between this case and the one referred to.
Upon looking at the case of Weston vs. The City of Charleston,
it will be seen that the decision of a majority of the Court was
not at all placed upon the distinction we have been considering,
but upon ground much broader and wholly independent of it.
The tax upon the tocks was regarded as a tax upon the exercise of the power of Congress "to borrow money on the credit
of the United States." The exercise of this power was interfered
with to the extent of the tax imposed by the City authorities,
that the liability of the certificates, of stock to taxation by a
State in the hands of an individual affected their value in the
market, and the free and unrestrained exercise of the power.
The Chief Justice observes, that "if the right to impose a tax
exists, it is a right which, in its nature acknowledges no limits
It may be carried to any extent within the jurisdiction of the
State or corporation which imposes it, which the will of each
State or corporation may prescribe."
He then refers to the taxing power of the State, its importance,
and extensive operation, and the delicacy and difficulty of fixing
any limit to its exercise, and that in the performance of this
duty, which had, in other cases, devolved on the Court it was

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of Commerce vs. New York City.
considered as a necessary consequence of the supremacy of the
Federal Government that its action in the exercise of its legitimate powers should be free and unembarrassed by any con flicting powers of the States, and that the powers of a State
cannot rightfully be so exercised as to impede and obstruct the
free course of those measures which this Government may
rightfully adopt.
He further observed, that "the sovereignty of a State extends
to every thing which exists by its own authority or is introduced
by its permission, but not to those means which are employed by
Congress to carry into execution powers conferred on that body
by the people of the United States. The attempt to use the
power of taxation on the means employed by the Government
of the Union in pursuance of the Constitution, is itself an abuse,
because it is the usurpation of a power which the people of a single
State cannot give," and the Chief Justice then adds, "a contract
made by the Government in the exercise of its powers to borrow
money on the credit of the United States is undoubtedly independent of the will of any State in which the individual who
leads may reside, and is undoubtedly an operation essential to
the important objects for which the Government was created."
-It is apparent in studying this opinion in connection with the
opinions of the Court in the cases of .Jfc£'lloughvs. The State of
Ifarylan, (4 Wh., 116), and of Osborne vs. The United States, (9
Wh., 732), that it is but a corollary from the doctrines so ably
expounded by the Chief Justice in the two previous cases in the
interpretation of an analogous power in the Constitution.
The doctrine maintained in those cases is, that the powers
granted by the people of the States to the General Government,
and embodied in the Constitution, are supreme within their
scope and operation, and that this Government may exercise
these powers in its appropriate departments, free and unobstructed by any State legislation or authority. That within this
limit this Government is sovereign and independent, and any
interference by the State governm3nts, tending to the interruption of the full legitimate exercise of the powers thus granted, is
in conflict with that clause of the Constitution which makes the

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

633

Bank of Commerce vs. New York City.
Oonstitution and the Laws of the United States passed in pursuance thereof "the supreme law of the land."
The result of this doctrine is, that the exercise of any authority
by a State Government trenching upon any of the powers
granted to the General Government is, to the extent of the interference, an attempt to resume the grant in defiance of constitutional obligation; and more than' this, if the encroachment or
usurpation to any extent is admitted, *the principle involved
would carry the exercise of the authority of the State to an
indefinite limit, even to the destruction of the power. For, as
truly said by the Chief Justice in'the case of Weston vs. The City
of Charleston,in respect to the taxing power of the State, "if the
right to impose the tax exists, it is a right which, in its nature,
acknowledges no linit, it may be carried to any extent within
the jurisdiction of the State or corporation which imposes it,
which the will of each State and corporation may prescribe."
An illustration of this principle in respect to the powers of
the judicial department of this Government, is found in the case
of the United States vs. Peters, (5 Cranch, 115). There the Legislature of the State of Pennsylvania attempted to annul the
judgment of a Court of the United States, an'd destroy all rights
acquired under it. It was quite apparent, if the exercise of that
power, could be admitted, the principle involved might annihilatethe whole power of the Federal Judiciary within the State. The
Act of the Legislature did not profess to exercise this power
generally, but only in the particular case, on the ground that the
Court had no jurisdiction. But the Chief Justice, in giving the
opinion of the Court, very naturally observes, that the right to
determine the jurisdiction of the Courts was not placed by the
Constitution in the State Legislatures, but in the supreme judicial tribunal of the nation. If time allowed, many other cases
might be referred to, illustrating the principle in respect to other
departments of this Government.
The conclusive answer to the attempted exercise of State
authority in all these cases is, that the exercise is in derogation
of the powers granted to the General Government, within which,
it is admitted, it is supreme. That Government whose powers,

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of Commerce vs. New York Cily.
executive, legislative or judicial, whether it is a Government of
enumerated powers like this one, or not, are subject to the
control of another distinct Government, cannot be sovereign or
supreme, but subordinate and, inferior to the other. This is so
palpable a truth that argument would be superfluous. Its functions and means essential to the administration of the Government, and the employment of them, are liable to constant
interruption and possible annihilation. The case in hand is an
illustration. The power to borrow money on the credit of the
United States is admitted. It is one of the most important and
even vital functions of the General Government, and its exercise
a means of supplying the necessary resources to meet exigencies
in times of peace or war. But of what avail is the function or
the means if another Government may tax it at discretion. It
is apparent that the power, function, or means, however important and vital, are at the mercy of that Government. And it
must be always remembered, if the right to impose a tax at all
exists on the part of the other Government, "it is a right which
in its nature acknowledges no limits." And the principle is
equally true in respect to every other power or function of
a Government subject to the control of another.
In our complex system of government it is oftentimes difficult
to fix the true boundary between the two systems, State and
Federal. The Chief Justice, in HcCullough vs. the State of
Mfaryland, endeavored to fix this boundary upon the subject of
taxation. He observed, "if we measure the power of taxation
residing in a State by the extent of sovereignty which the people
of a single State possess, and can confer on its government, we
have an intelligible standard applicable to e-ery case to which
the power may be applied. We have a principle which leaves
the power of taxing the people and property unimpaired, which
leaves to a State the command of all its resources, and which
places beyond its reach all those powers which are conferred by
the people of the United States on the Government of the Union,
and all those means which are given for the purpose of carryiny
those powers into execution. We have a principle which is safe
for the States and safe for the Union."

DEOEMBER TERM, 1862.

635

Prize Ca"es.

All will agree -that this is the enunciation of a true principle,
and it is only by a wise and forbearing application of it that the
operation of the powers and functions of the two Governments
can be harmonized. Their powers are so intimately blended
and connected that it is impossible to define or fix the limit of
the one without at the same time that of the other in respect to
any one of the great departments of Government. When the
limit is ascertained and fixed, all perplexity and confusion disappear. Each is sovereign and independent in its sphere of
action, and exempt from the interference or control of the other,
either in the means employed or functions exercised, and influenced by a public and patriotic spirit on both-sides, a conflict
of authority need not occur or be feared.
Judgment of the Court below is reversedt*

'THE BRIG AmY WARWICK.
THE SCHOONER CRENSHAW.
THE BARQUE HIAWATHA.
THE, SCHOONER BRILiAq TE
I Neutrals may question the existence of a blockade," and chal-

lenge the legal authority of the party which has undertaken
to establish it.

2 One belligerent, engaged in actual war, has a right to blockade
the ports of the other, and neutrals are bound to respect that
right.
3 To justify the exercise of this right, and legalize the capture of-a
neutral vessel for violating it, a state of actual war must exist,

and the neutral must have knowledge or notice that it is the
intention of one belligerent to blockade the ports of the other.
* The case of 2%o Bank of the Com,nonwealth vs. The Commissioner of
Tazes, was also heard at this term. The record raised precisely the same
queitions as that in the Bank of Commerce vs. ,New York City, and the cases
were decided in the same way for the same reasons. It was argued by Mr.
Bradford of New Yorl for the Bank, and by Mr. Brady and Mr. Develinu oi
New York, contra.

