DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Curtis's Administratrixvs. Fiedler.
Neither the answer of the party, nor the argument of counsel,
allege any good reason, why a married woman should be permitted to take property without paying for it, more than another.
The disabilities thrown round her by the law, are for her pro.
tection-not to enable her to commit fraud.
'Decree affirmed, with costs.-

CURTIS'S ADMINISTRATRIX vs. FiEDLER.
L An importer-fiom whom a collector exacted illegal duties could
not under the Act of 1839, maintain assumpsit to recover back
the excess, unless the suit was brought before the officer
paid the money into the treasury.
2. The Act of 1845 gave the right of recovering back, such excessive
duties to all importers who had paid or might thereafter pay
them, under protest in writing, with the grounds of objection
distinctly set forth.
8. Whether this latter act, has a retroactive operation, so as to inelude the case of a person, from whom excessive duties were
exacted before its passage. Quere?
4. But it is certain, that a party whose claim for excessive duties is
not recoverable under the Act of 1839, and who seeks to recover
under the Act of 1845, cannot avail himself of the latter statute,
without bringing himself within its terms, by showing that he
made proper protest at the time of payment.
5. A party imported iron and hemp at the same time, entered them
together, and made a general protest against the duties charged
in the entry, without discrimination of the packages and stating
no ground of objection, except that the chaige was illegal.
Held, That stich a protest utterly fails to meet the require.
ments of the Act of 1845.
6. The importer must indicate by his protest, the distinct and definite ground of his objection to the charge, and show his intention to reclaim the excess.
T. This distinctness is required, that the officers may know to what
amount of risk and responsibility they expose the Government
by taking the duties in the face of the objection.

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis's s4dministratrixvs. F'edler.
Error to the Circuit Court of United States for the Southern
District of New York.
Ernest Fiedler, a merchant of New York, in September, 1842,
imported into the port of New York, from St. Petersburgh,
Russia, in the ship "Nicholas Savin," a quantity of unmanufaotured hemp. He also imported at the same time, by the same
vessel, a quantity of iron in bars.
The Tariff Act of August 30, 1842, which was in operation at
the time of the importation, contained the following provision in
respect to the duty to be levied on hemp: "On manufactured
hemp forty dollars per ton ; on manilla, sunn, and other hemps
of India, on jute sisal, grass, coir, and other vegetable substances,
not enumerated, used for cordage, twenty five dollars per ton."
Tariff Act of 1842, sec. 3, sub. 3.
Edward Curtis, at that time Collector of the Port of New
York, treated this hemp as unmanufactured hemp and charged
upon it a Iduty of $2,575.38, being at the rate of $40 per ton.
The duties thus charged upon the iron amounted to the further
sum of $848.56. The importer protested against the payment
of the duties thus charged on the entire importation. The protest was in writing upon the margin of the entry, which embraced
both the 'hemp and the iron, and was as follows: "I hereby protest against the payment of the duty charged in this' entry oJn
account that there exists no law authorizing the exaction of sail
duty. Sfept. 1, 1842." No other protest against or objection to
the payment of the duties was made by or on behalf of the
plaintiff. The duties were paid to the collector, September 6,
1842, and by him paid into the Treasurr of the United States.
The plaintiff afterwards, in November, 1847, brought the action
of assumps,tto recover the difference between the amount of'
duties charged and paid on the hemp specified in the entry at
the rate oi $40 per ton and the amount calculated at the rate of
$25 per ton, th, difference claimed being $965.77. The defendant ph aded r,-2 ,sumpsit.
At the trial, before Mr. Justice Nelson and a jury, the above
facts we-e proved, and the plaintiff claimed that under articles ti
P.u
1 1 of 'she Treaty between the United States and Russia. o

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

4683

Curlis's Administrairixvs. Fiedler
December 6th and 18th, 1832, the exaction of any duty on thQ
hemp in question beyond $25 per ton was unauthorized and
illegal. The Articles of the Treaty thus relied on, are as follows: "Article 6. No higher or other duties shall be imposed on
.he importation into the United States of any article, the produce or manufacture of Russia; and no higher or other duties
shall be imposed on the importation into the Empire of Russia
of any article the produce or manufacture of the United States,
than are, or shall be payable on the like article, being the produce or manufacture of any other foreign country. Nor shall
any prohibition be imposed on the importation or exportation
of any article, the produce or manufacture of the United States
or of Russia, to or from the ports of the United States, or to or
from the ports of the Russian Empire, which shall not equally
extend to all other nations."
"Article 11. If either party shall, hereafter, grant to any other
nation, any particular favor in navigation or commerce, it shall
immediately become common to the other party, freely, where
it is freely granted to such other nation, or on yielding the same
compensation, when the grant is conditional."
The plaintiff grounded his right to recover on this: that the
Treaty with Russia fixed the duties on hemp imported from that
country at the rates imposed on the same articles from any other
country, and inasmuch as the tariff of 1842 imposed only $25
per ton on India hemp, no higher duty could be legally charged
on Russian hemp:
The plaintiff called witnesses to prove that Russian and
Mlanilla hemps are known in trade and commerce as "hemp,"
&nd serve substantially the same purposes, being-all used in the
manufacture of cordage, &c. On the part of defendant it was
proved and admitted by plaintiff's counsel, that all the hemps
zf India are the products, not of the cannabis sativa, the ordinary
hemp p'ants of Russia and the United States, but of other and
different plants and trees.
The defendant asked the Court to instruct the jury as followsFirst. That the present action of assumpsit cannot be maintained inasmuch as by the 2d section of the General Approprin.

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis'sAdministratrixvs. Fiedler.
tion Act of the 3d of March, 1839, which was in force at the
time of the receipt of said moneys by the defendant, he was
required to pay, and did pay, such moneys into the Treasury of
the United States, and that the Act of Congress ofthe 26th of
February, 1845, cannot operate, nor should it be 6onstrued to
operate, retroactiveZy, to subject defendant in his individual capa
city to such action.
Secondly. That the present action cannot be maintained, inasmuch as defendant acted -in precise conformity to the Tariff Act
of August 30th, 1842, by which a duty of $40 per ton was laid
on all manufactured hemps (except the hemps of India); that as
between the defendant as collector and plaintiff as importer, the
amount of duties to be paid was conclusively fixed by the said
Act of Congress. That the question whether or not the dis
crimination made by the said Act of August 30th, 1842, betweei.
the hemps of India and other unmanufactured hemp, was, i,
respect to Russian hemp, an infraction of the treaty previously
made with Russia, was exclusively a question to be discussed
and settled by and between the Government of Russia and the
Government of the United States, and that in a private action
between the importer and the defendant, it was not competent
for the plaintiff to raise, nor for the judicial tribunals to decide,
any such question.
Thirdly. That the present action could not be maintained
because the protest of the plaintiff, dated September 1st, 1842,
did not refer to the treaty with Russia, nor set forth distinctly
and specifically any ground of objection to the payment of the
moneys, or any part thereof, charged by the defendant for duties
on the hemp in question, nor did it discriminate between the
duties so charged on such hemp and the duties charged on the
iron included in the entry; but, on the contrary, the said protest
referred to all the duties-eharged in'the said entry-those charged
on the iron equally with those charged on the hemp, and placed
the objection to the payment thereof on the ground that there
was no law authorizing their exaction.
Fourthly. That upon the true construction of the Tariff Act
of the 30th of August, 1842, all hemps, wherever produced, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Curtis's Administratrixvs. Fiedler.
even though produced in India, which are the products of the
cannabissativa, are charged with a duty of $40 per ton, and the
lesser duty of $25 per ton is limited to hemps not the products
of cannabis sativa, but of other and different plants or trees; and
that therefore the discrimination made in favor of such hemps
of India was not*n infraction of the Treaty with Russia.
The Court refused to give the instructions so requested by
the defendant, but directed the jury, that if they found from the
evid'ence that the hemps of India were, at the time of the passage
of the Tariff Act of 1842, generally known in trade and commerce as unmanufactured hemps, the plaintiff was entitled to a
verdict for the amount claimed by him; and in accordance with
that view the verdict was rendered and judgment given. The
defendant took this writ of error.
Hr.Butler, of New York, and 21r. Coffey, of Pennsylvania, for
Plaintiff in Error.
These actions of assumpsit cannot be maintained, even were it
admitted that the moneys sought to be recovered were illegally
exacted by the defendants as duties on the hemp in question.
1. When such moneys were received by the defendants, they
were bound by the Act of 3d March, 1839, to pay them into the
treasury, and did so pay them; and if liable to any action for
the recovery thereof, they were not liable to an action of
assumpsit for that purpose. 5 U. S. Statutes at Large, 348, sec.
2; Cary vs. Curtis, (3 Howard, 236).
2. The Act of the 26th of February, 1845, (5 U. S. Statutes at
Large, 727,) should not be construed to operate, and cannot
operate retroactively,to subject the defendants in their individual
capacity to an action to which they were not before liable.
But if it be conceded that the Act of the 26th of February,
1845, (5 Stat., 727,) restores the right of persons who have paid
money to collectors for duties under protest, to bring suit against
the collectors to test the legality of such payments, which right
had been taken away by the Act of 3d March, 1839, (5 Stat.,
848, sec..2,) and the ruling of the Supreme Court in Ca-y vs.
Curtis, (3 How., 236,) a fatal, objection to these actions still
30
VOL. 11.

SUPREME COURT.
Curiis's Administratrix vB. Fiedler.
exists. In restoring this right of action, the Act of 1845 subjected it to this condition: "Nor shall any action be maintained
against any collector to recover the amount of duties so paid
under protest, unless the said protest was made in writing, and
signed by the claimant, at or before the payment of said duties.
setting forth distinctly and specifically the grounds of objection
to the payment thereof." It is now said by the defendant in
error, in Curtis vs. Fedler,that this law was not in existence
when the duties in that case were paid, and that, therefore, it
cannot have a retroactive efict to require the protest to conform
to its terms. But the plain and perfect answer to this objection
is, that by virtue of the Act of 3d March, 1839, the defendant in
error had no right of action at all against the collector at the
time he paid the duties and made his protest, in September,
1842. The opinion of the Court in Cary vs. Curtis established
the validity of that act, and showed that it utterly destroyed the
right to recover in assumpsit against the collector for duties
paid under protest, (the form of remedy adopted in this case.)
His right of action was therefore entirely created by the retroactive operation of the Act of 26th February, 1845, which
declared that nothing in the Act of 1839 should be construed to
take away or impair the right of any person or persons who have
paid,or shall hereafter pay money for duties under protest to
any collector, &c.. to maintain any action at law against such
collector, &c. And in the same section is contained the clause
above quoted, declaring that vo action shall be maintained, &c.
unlss the said protest was made in writing. Surely the condi.
tion which is thus appended to the right of action is as operative
as the clause which confers that right. The right depends on
',ompliauce with the condition; and if the protest of the defendtnt in error (lid not happen to conform to the requirements of
the condition, then no right of action was given to him. If he
ha., any remedy at all, it is that provided by the Act of 1845, and
that was given him only on condition that his protest was made
in accordance with its terms. He cannot invoke the retroactive
remedy, and discard the retroactive condition on which it is
given.

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

467

Curtis's Admini~sratrixvs. Fiedler.

If, therefore, the protest made by the defendant in error, when
he paid the duties, was not in substantial accordance with the
terms of the Act of 1845, the Court below erred in overruling
the third point of the plaintiff in error, and in allowing the action
to be maintained.
The custom-house entry of merchandise, on which the protest
was written, embraces a charge for 1,835 bars of iron, hammered,
and for 50 and 15 bundles of hemp, no discrimination being
made as to the class of duties protested against.
The ground of objection to the payment of the duties upon
which this action is attempted to be sustained, is, that as the
treaty with Russia of December, 1818, stipulates that no higher
rate of duties shall be imposed on goods imported from Russia
than on like articles imported from other places, the duty rate
of $40 per ton imposed by the Tariff Act of August 30, 1842, on
unmanufactured hemp, should not have been charged on the hemp
imported by the plaintiff, Fiedler, and described in the entry of
the 1st of September, 1842, but the duty rate of $25 per ton,
imposed by the same Tariff Act on manilla, sunn, and other
hemps of India, &c., should have been charged on it, and that
the plaintiff has a right to avail himself in this action of that
provision of the Russian treaty, to recover the amount of duties
thus illegally paid.
It is contended that under the protest filed, it was not competent for the plaintiff below to raise this question, and that the
Court below erred in overruling the third point of the defendant
below, and in entering judgment for the plaintiff.
The requisites of the protest prescribed by the Act of 26th
February, 1845, as above cited, as a condition of the maintenance
of an action against a collector to recover duties paid under such
protest, are, that the protest shall be "made in writing, and
signed by the claimant, at or before the payment of said duties,
setting forth distinctly and specifically the grounds of objection
to the payment thereof."
The object of Congress in requiring not only the objection.
but the grounds of objection, to be distinctly and specifically set
forth, has been fully explained by the Courts of the United

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis'sAdministratrix vs. Fiedler.

States; and the numerous cases in which the sufficiency of pro
tests under this Act have been examined by the Judges of this
Court, show beyond question that the protest in this case is
fatally defective.
.iason vs. Kane, Maryland Circuit Court, April Term, 1851,
cited 2 Blatchfo I C. C. R., 390); Warren vs. Pcaslee, (2 Curt. C
C: R., 235); K rieslervs. Morton, (1 Curt. C. C. R., 413); Norcross
vs. Greely, (1 Curt. C. C. R., 114); Swanston vs. Aforton, (1 t:t.
C. C. R., 294); Burqess vs. Converse, (2 Curt. C. C. R., 294); Same
case, (18 How., 413); Thompson vs. Maxwell, (2 Blatch. C. C. R.,
385): Pierson vs. Lawrence, (2 Blatch. C. C. R., 495); Pierson vs
faxwell, (2 Blatch. C. C. R., 507); Focke vs. Lawrence, (2 Blatch
C. C. R., 508); Cornett vs. Lawrence, (2 Blatch. C. C. R., 512)
Vilson vs. Lawrence, (2 Blatch. C. C. R., 514); Tucker vs. Max
well, (2 Blatch. C. C. R., 517).
Tested by the rules applied in these cases, the protest filed by
Fiedler is insufficient to maintain this action. The only objec
tion set forth is that "there exists no law authorizing the exac
tion of said duty."
The entry on which the protest is written contains a charge
for duty on hammered bars of iron, and charges on bundles of
hemp. The protest fails to state whether the objection to the
payment of duties applies to that charged on the iron, or to that
charged on the hemp, or to both. It is said in Warren vs. Peaslee, (2 Curt. C. C. R., 235,) that "the grounds of the objection to
the particular payment sought to be recovered back, must be,
rot only distinctly, but specifically set forth, and that it must be
applied to that particular payment." It is impossible that the
collector could learn from this protest what particular payment
of the duties charged on the entry was objected to, whether to
that charged on all or on a part of the entries enumerated. It is
true that the protest is broad enough to cover all, and it is true
as the plaintiff's counsel argue, "that the whole includes a part."
But it is precisely that vague generality which the act meant to
prohibit. The protest, as is said in Thompson vs. "Maxwell,must.
"by positive and direct notice, point out every particular of
fact and law ;" and as is said in Swanson vs. -31orton, "must show

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

469

Ourtis'sAdministratrix vs. Fiedler.

distinctly what is objected to." If the object of the law be to
give notice to the collector of the specific objection, so that, if
possible, he may remove its cause, and also to confine the pro
testant on the trial, to the ground of objection set forth in his
protest, then this protest fails in both particulars, fo" it does
not inform the collector where the illegality is, and, of course, is
not in such form as to limit the importer, on the trial, to any
specific ground, since he may then apply his objection either to
the charges on the iron, or to the charges on the hemp, at his
pleasure.
The protest is also defective in this, that it covers the whole
duty and not the excess on the hemp, of which complaint is now
made. The duty charged on the hemp it $40 per ton, and the
plaintiff below admitsthat $25 per ton was legally due, and yet
his protest "against the payment of the duty charged in this
entry," instead of informing the collector that the objection was
to the payment of the duty in excess of $25 per ton, gave him
notice in effect that the objection was to the payment of any"
duty. It should have specified the part of the duty against
which he now objects, viz.: the difference between $25 per ton
and $40 per ton on the hemp. The objection taken in the Court
below to the payment of this part of the duty is, therefore, in
this respect substantially different from that taken in the pro
test.
The protest is especially defective in this, that it sets forth no
ground of objection at all. The objection that "no law exists to
authorize the exaction of the duty," gives no distinct or specific
information, or rather no information whatever of the ground on
'which the payment of the duties is opposed, It is a form in
which any objection to the payment of duties may be clothed.
since in every case the ground of recovering duties paid must
be, that no law authorized their exaction. It is broad enough
t. afford a cover for any question that may be raised to the
validity of the tariff laws, or the regularity of the proceedings
of the custom-house officers; and neither furnishes the collector
with knowledge of the alleged wrong, so that, if possible, he may
remedy it; nor with the means of restraining the protestant from

SUPREME COURT
Curlis.s Adminislratrix vs. Fiedler.
selecting, on the trial, any particular ground of objection which
.4ubsequent information or reflection may suggest. On such a
protest the collector is necessarily ignorant of' the wrong complained of, and of the issue which he is to meet on the trial.
To sustain this protest would, it is suggested, be to abrogate the
statute and overrule all the cases that have been cited.
Mlfr. Cushing, of Massachusetts, and Mfr. Gillet, of the District
of Columbia, contra:.
The Act of March 3d, 1839, requiring collectors receiving
money under protest, to pay the same into the Treasury, does
not bar the right of recovery in this case.
On the trial, the defendant requested the Court to charge that
the action could not be maintained, "inasmuch as, by the 2d
section of the General Appropriation Act of March, 1839, which
was in force at the time of the receipt of said moneys by the de.
fendant, he was required, and did pay such moneys into the
Treasury of the United States, and that the Act of Congress of
the 26th of February, 1845, cannot operate, nor should it be con
strued to operate, retrospectively, to subject said defendant in
his individual capacity to such action." The Judge refused to
give this instruction, and the defendant excepted. (R., p. 14.)
This presents the question, whether the Act of 1839. deprived
the plaintiff of his right of action, and continued to (1o so.
The provision referred to will be found in 5 U. S. L.. 348, .ยง2.
In the case of Cary vs. Curtis. (3 I., 236), it was held that the
provision cited above, protected the collectors from prosecution
in cases where they had exacted an excess of duties, and paid the
same into the Treasury. Congress being in session when this
decision was made, the Act of February 26th, 1845, (5 U. S. L..
727), was passed to remove the obstacle ini the way of recovering
in such cases, where the importer had been wronged. The Act
provided : "that nothing contained in the 2d section of 'he Act
of 1839 shall take away, or be construed to take away, oz impair,
the right of any person or persons who have pail or shall here.
after pay money, as and for duties under protest, to any col
lector of the customs, or other persons acting as such, in ordei

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Curtis'sAdministratrix vs. Fiedler.

to obtain goods, wares, or merchandise imported by him or
them, or on his or their account, which duties are not authorized,
or payable in part or in whole by law, to maintain any action at
law against such collector, or other person acting as such, to
ascertain and try the legality and validity of such demand and
payment of duties, and to have a right to a trial by jury touching the same, according to the due course of law; nor shall anything contained in the 2d Section of the Act aforesaid be
construed to authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to refund
any duties paid under protest; nor shall any. action be maintained against any collector to recover the amount of duties so
paid under protest, unless the said protest was made in writing
and signed by the claimant, at or before the payment of said
duties, setting forth distinctly and specifically the grounds of
objection to the payment thereof."
Although the Act of 1839 was held to prevent a recovery, the
above Act of 1845 removed the obstacle, and was designed to
permit suits for previous exactions. Had not this been so, those
previously paying excess of duties would have been remediless
because this Act of 1845 prohibits refunding by the Sec etary
under the Act of 1839. The object of the Act was not to de.
prive the party of a remedy, but to confer one in entire harmony
with the provision of the Constitution in relation to jury trials.
Although at the time of this transaction the plaintiff was prohibited from suing, the prohibition was removed, and it became
lawful in 1845.
The protest served was sufficient in form, and the collector
was bound to take notice of the law protecting the rights of the
importer, without its being specified in the protest.
On the trial, the defendant's counsel-requested the Court to
charge, "that the present action could not be maintained, because
the protest of the plaintiff, dated September 1, 1842, did net refer
to the treaty with Russia, nor set forth distinctly and specifically
any ground of objection to the payment of the moneys, or any
part thereof, charged by the defendant for duties on the hemp in
question; nor did it discriminate between the duties so charged

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis's Administratrix vs. Fiedler.
on such hemp. and the duties charged on the order included in
th3 entry, to which said protest was attached; but, on the con
trary, the said protest referred to the duties charged in the said
2ntry-those charged on the iron, equally with those charged
on the hemp-placed the objection to the payment thereof on
the ground that there was no law authorizing their exaction."
The Judge refused to give this instruction, and exception was
taken.
At the time of paying the excess of duties now claimed, the
plaintiff made a protest in writing, broad enough to cover his
case, which was endorsed on the entry in these words: "I hereby
protest against the payment of the duty charged in this entry,
on account that there exists no law authorizing the exaction of
said duty."
The defendant now seeks to escape liability, upon the ground
that the duties on the iron, and a portion of those charged on the
hemp, were authorized by law. His theory is, that the whole
does not include a part. Until he demonstrates this, the common
axiom must be respected which establishes the opposite conclusion. The protest, although broad enough to cover the duty on
the iron, the plaintiff did not seek to apply to that article. To
that extent there is no fact proved in the case to which it is
applicable.
But as to the hemp on which the defendant charged forty per
,ent., the protest does apply. The plaintiff claimed that there
was no law authorizing that duty. If he was bound to specify
the objection, he did so most fully.
But prior to 1845, there was no law requiring the protest to
be made in writing, or to specify the objections. The necessity
of written protests and specific objections led to the provision in
the Act of that date, (5 U. S. L., 727,) which provides:
"Nor shall any action be maintained against any collector, to
recover the amount of duties so paid under protest, unless the
said protest was made in writing and signed by the claimant, at
or before the payment of the said duties, setting forth distinctly
and specifically the grounds of objection to the payment thereof.'
This was the first law which required the protest to be ir

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Ourlis's Administratrix vs. Fiedlei.

writing, and to specify the particular objection to the payment
required.
But this Act catinot be construed to have a retroactive effect,
so as to deprive a claimant of a lawful right existing at the
time of its passage. The right of the claimant became fixed
before the act passed, and he was legally entitled to have his
money refunded.
The Act of 1839 was the only obstacle in the way of recovery,
and that was removed. To hold that the Act of 1845 required
a protest in writing, and of a special character, which was not
requisite when the excess of duties was demanded, and could
not then be supplied, while it repelled the power of the Secretary of the Treasury to give relief, would be to declare that the
claimant was deprived of all possible remedy, when the avowed
object of the Act was to confer one of a popular character.
Congress had no power thus to devote private property to public
use, and deprive the party of all possible means of indemnity.
Such was not the intention of Congress, and no such construction
can be put upon the Act.
But even under this provision of the Act pi L845, the protest
was sufficient. It was made in writing and at the time of paying
the duties. It states that there was no law authorizing the
-ollector to demand duties at the rate upon which he insistedthat is, $40 per ton. The question was upon that high rate.
The collector demanded it, and the importer objected to paying
it. The Act of 1845 did not require the importer to state how
much he thought the law authorized the collector to demand.
He resisted the exaction of $40 per ton, and the collector
insisted upon it, and that was the matter in dispute, and the
protest was prepared to meet it.
There was no question of fact involved, to which the importer
wds bound to call the collecton's attention, so that he might examine it and determine it. The question was one of law-to
wit: what was the lawful duty upon the hemps of India? 'The
collector was bound to know the law. whether found in the Con.
stitution, a treaty, or statute. He did not need tO have his attention specially called to the law.' He decided it by declaring

SUPREME COURT.
Curlis's Administralrix vs. FIedler.
as a matter of law, that the hemps of India were not hemps
under the law, and therefore, that the hemps of Russia were not
entitled to admission at the rates established for hemps of India;
or, he may have decided that the act of Congress repealed or
nullified the provision of the treaty. In either event the protest
was sufficient. The objection is too technical to be permitted to
deprive the party of a legal right which has been conceded
to others where no such formalities as a protest are shown.
If the protest required by the Act of 1845 includes and extends to those previously made, it is confidently insisted that
the one in question was safficient.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD. This is a writ of error to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York. According to the transcript, the suit was commenced by
the present defendant against Edward' Curtis, in the Superior
Court of the City of New York, to recover back an alleged
excess of duties paid by the plaintiff upon certain goods and
merchandize imported into the Port of New York during the
period that the defendant in the Court below was the Collector
of the Customs of that port Date of the writ does not appear,
nor is it of any importance in this investigation, as the record
of the suit was on the 1st day of February, 1847, duly trans
ferred under the 3d section of the Act of the 2d of March, 1833
into the Circuit Court of the United States, where all the pro
ceedings in the suit took place, which are now the subject of
revision. 4 Stat. at Large, p. 633. Suit was upon promises,
and the declaration contained the common counts as in indebitatus ass umpsi. Subsequently to the transfer of the record, the
defendant, then in full life, appeared and pleaded that he never
promised in manner and form as the plaintiff had alleged against
him, and upon that issue the parties at the April Term, 1849,
went to trial. To maintain the issue on his part, the plaintiff
produced and gave in evidence an original entry made by him
at the custom-house in the Port of New York on the 1st day of
September, 1842, of certain goods and merchandize imported
into that port.from St. Petersburg, in Russia, in the Russian ship

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Curtis's Administratrix vs.

iedler.

Nicholay Savin, and which goods and merchandize were duly
consigned to the plaintiff by the shipper and owner. Three
packages were specified in the entry, of which two consisted of
hemp in bundles, and the other of iron in bars, hammered. As
described in the entry, one of the packages of hemp contained
fifty bundles and the other fifteen, and the package of iron contained eighteen hundred and thirty-five bars.
Unmanufactured hemp by the Act of, the 30th of August,
1842, was subject to a duty of $40 per ton, but manilla, sunn,
and other hemps of India were subject to a duty of only $25
per ton. These provisions of the Tariff Act under consideration are plain and clear, and by reference to the 4th section of
the act it will be seen that iron in bars or bolts, not manufactured in whole or in part, was subject to a duty of $17 per ton.
5 Stat. at Large, pp. 550, 551.
Parties admitted at the trial that the defendant was the
Collector of. the Port of New York at the time the entry was
made, and that he, as such collector, pursuant to the instructions of the Department, charged on the hemp included in the
entry a duty of $40 per ton, under the before-mentioned Act of
Congress. They.also admitted that the duties on the hemp as
charged by the collector amounted to $2,575.38, and that the
duties charged at the same time on the iron included in the
entry amounted to $848.56, making an aggregate charge for
duties on the whole importation of $3,423.94. Demand of that
amount as the proper charge for the duties on the importation
was made by the defendant on the dbhy of the entry, and the
plaintiff on the same day protested against the payment of the
same in writing, as appears oh the margin of the entry in the
words following, to wit: "I hereby piotest against the payment
of the duty charged in this entry on account that there exists
no law authorizing the exaction of said duty." But the whole
sum, notwithstanding the protest, was exacted by the defendant,
and the plaintiff accordingly, on the 6th day of the same month,
paid the amount charged, and on the same day the defendant
paid the same into the Treasury of the United States. Plaintiff
insisted at the trial that by virtue of the *6th and 7th articles of

SUPREME COURT.
Gurtis's Administratrixvs. Fiedler.
the'Treaty between the United States and Russia the hemp
included in the entry could only be charged with the same duty
as that imposed in the Tariff Act on the hemps of India, because
the articles of the treaty referred to stipulate in effect that no
higher duty shall be imposed on the produce of Russia imported
here than is imposed on the like articles "of produce imported
from the -mostfavored nations. 8 Stat. at Large, 446.
Evidence was accordingly introduced by the plaintiff tending
to show that both the Russian hemp and the hemps of India are
known in trade and commerce as hemp, and that both are used
in the manufacture of cordage, and serve substantially the same
purposes. On the other hand, the defendant proved, or it was
admitted, that all the hemps of India are the products not of the
cannabis sativa, the ordinary hemp plants of Russia and the
United States, but of other and different plants and trees, and
upon the exhibition of the foregoing proofs both parties rested.
Defendant controverted the position assumed by the plaintiff
that the rate of duty could not exceed that imposed by law on
the hemps of India, and also insisted that the action could not
be maintained against him because the protest of the plaintiff
did not set forth any distinct and specific ground of objection tc
the payment of the duties charged on the hemp, and certainly
did not set forth distinctly and specifically any such ground of
objection to the payment of the same as that assumed by the
plaintiff, or in any manner discriminate between the duties
charged on the hemp and the duties charged on the iron included
in the same entry, but placed the objection to the payment of
the moneys solely on the general ground that there was no law
authorizing the exaction.
Prayers for instructions were presented by the defendant,
affirming that the hemp was legally chargeable with a duty of
$40 per ton, and also embodying the substance of the foregoing
objections to the right of the plaintiff to maintain the action, but
tLe presiding justice concurring with the plaintiff upon the
merits, refused the requests, and, among other things, instructed
the jury that the action might be maintained, although it was
an action of assumpsit for the recovery of moneys received by

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Curtis's Administratrixvs. Fiedler.

the defendant for duties paid under prot2st while the Act 'ofthe
8d of March, 1839, was in force, and before the Act of the 26th
of February, 1845, was passed, and that the protest in writing
of the plaintiff was sufficiently precise and distinct to enable the
plaintiff to recover back any portion of the moneys paid for
duties on the hemp included in the entry which should appear
to have been illegally exacted. Under the instructions of the
Court the jury returned their verdict in favor of the plaintiff,
and the defendant excepted to the refusal of the Court to instruct
the jury as requested and to the instructions given. Judgment
was deferred in consequence of a motion for new trial and other
proceedings, which need not be noticed until the 17th day of
December, 1860, and in the meantime the defendant died, and
the administratrix of his estate was admitted to defend.
Three questions arise on this state of the case for the con.
sideration of the Court. First, whether, under the second section
of the Act of the 3d of March, 1839, an action of assumpsit on
an implied promise can be maintained against a collector of the
customs to recover back duties exacted by him in his official
capacity after he had received the moneys and paid the same
into the Treasury of the United States and if 'not, then secondly,
whether the objection taken at the trial to the payment of
the duties was set forth in the protest with sufficient precision
and distinctness to bring the case within the provisions of
the Act of the 26th of February, 1845, authorizing such a suit
in cases where the protest is made in writing and sets forth distinctly and specifically the grounds of objection to the payment.
5 Stat. at Large, 727. Thirdly, whether the legal rate of duty
upon the hemp included in the entry was the sum exacted by
the collector or only $25 per ton as assumed by the plaintiff.
I. Recurring to the second section of the Act of the 3d of March,
1839, it will be seen that it provides in effect that the money
paid to any collector of the customs after the passage of that Act
for unascertained duties, or for duties paid under protest against
the ri te or amount of duties charged, shall be placed to the
credit of the Treasury of the United States, to be kept and disposed of as all other money paid for duties; and it expressly

478

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis's Administratrix vs. Fiedler.

provides that such money "shall not be held by the collector to
await any ascertainment of duties or the result of anv litigation
in relation to the rate or amount of duty legally chargeable and
collectable in any case where money is so paid." 5 Stat. at
Large, 348.
Prior to the passage of that act, it had frequently been held that
an action of assumpsit woul lie against a collector to recover back
duties illegally exacted by him of the importer; but this Court
held in Cary vs. Curtis, (3 How.. 236.) that the provisions of that
section where the money had been paid into the Treasury of the
United States were a bar to any such action to recover back
duties paid suhscquently to the passage of that act. Some of
the judges dissented on the occasion, but the concluding portion of the opinion given by the Court rests, it is believed, upon
the solid foundations of reason and justice. Indebitatu.s assumpsit is founded upon what the law terms an implied promise on
the part of the defendant to pay what in good conscience he is
bound to pay to the plaintiff. Where the case shows that it is
the duty of the defendant to pay, the law imputes to him a promise to fulfil that obligation. Such a promise, say the Court, is
always charged in the declaration, and must be so charged in
order to maintain the action. But the law never implies a promise
to pay unless some duty creates such an obligation, and more
especially it never implies a promise to do an act contrary to duty
or contrary to law. Collectors under the act referred to were
required to pay all moneys received for unascertained duties or
for duties paid under protest into the Treasury of the United
States, and consequently this Court held that in a case arising
under that law, where that duty had been performed by the collector, the law would not imply a promise on his part to pay the
same back to the importer, because he was under no obligation
to pay the money twice, and to have paid the same back to the
imp)orter in the first place would have been contrary to his official duty as prescribed by an Act of Congress. Applying that
rule to Ihe present case, it is quite obvious that the answer to
the first question presented must be in the negative. Importers
hawever wee not, without remedy under that.Act but when

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

479

Curtis's Administratrix vs. IYedler.
ever it was shown to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the
Treasury that more money had been paid to the collector for
such duties than the law required, it was made his duty to draw
his warrant upon the Treasurer to refund the over payment.
II. Congress, on the 26th of February, 1845, gave a different
construction to that provision, and provided in effect that "any
person or persons who have paid or may hereafter pay money"
under protest, as and for duties nct authorized by law, to any
collector of the customs in order to obtain the goods or mer
chandize imported by him, may maintain an action at law
against such collector to ascertain and try the legality and
validity of such demand aid payment, but the same section also
provides to the effect that no such action shall "be maintained
against any collector to recover the amount of duties so paid
under protest unless the said protest was made in writing ***
setting forth distinctly and specifically the grounds of the objection to the payment thereof. When the duties in this case
were paid the provision just recited was not in existence, and it
is insisted by the plaintiff that it cannot have a retroactive effect
so as to require the protest of the plaintiff to conform to its
terms; but if that be so, then it is clear that'the defendant must
prevail in the suit, as the plaintiff has no right of action what
ever against the defendant unless it be by virtue of that pro
vision. His importation was made while the Act of the 3d of
Mfarch, 1839, was in operation, and when he paid the duties in
question, importers in such cases, according to the decision of
this Court, had no right of action whatever against the collector
of the customs. Those who had no right of action under the old
law cannot rightfully complain of the terms and conditions
annexed to the remedy given in the subsequent Act of Congress.
All such as have claims falling within it have a right to avail
themselves of its provisions, because the right of action given is
in its nature a remedy against the Government, but they must
accept it as such with its conditions.
Protests according to that law must be made in writing, and
must be signed by the claimant at or before the payment of the
luties, setting forth distinctly and specifically the grounds of the

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis'sAdministratrix vs.

iedler.

objection to the payment as before stated. Parties who have
made such protests upon the payment of duties were placed upon
the same footing with those who should thereafter make such
protests, and all such were authorized to seek their remedy in
an action at law against the collector as the representative of the
Government, but it cannot for a moment be admitted that a
party can have the benefit of an Act of Congress unless he shows
that his case is within its provisions. No allusion whatever is
made in the protest to any such ground of objection to the payment of the duties as that taken at the trial, nor any other
except the general objection already stated. Unless the groundF
of objection to the payment of the duties are distinctly and
specifically set forth in the protest it is plain that it cannot bF
held to be sufficient without a departure from the express requirement of the Act of Congress under which the suit was
brought.
Iron in bars, as well as hemp in bundles, is included in the
entry, and yet the protest is "against the payment of the duty
charged in the entry" without any discrimination as to the
packages, and consequently applying as well to the iron as to
the hemp, and to the whole amount of the duties charged upon
the entire importation. No pretence .is now made that the duty
charged upon the iron was illegal or excessive, and the plaintiff
concedes that the hemp was subject to a duty of $25 per ton.
Irrespective of authorities, therefore, it is impossible to hold that
the protest in this case is sufficiently distinct and specific to
admit the objection to the payment set up at the trial. Numerous
decisions have been made upon the subject, but there is not one
of them that affords the slightest support to the position that the
protest in this case constitutes a compliance with the requirement of the Act of Congress. On the contrary, every one of
them affirms the rule that the importer must at least indicate in
his protest distinctly and definitely the source or ground of his
complaint, and his design to make it the foundation of a claim
against the Government. Greeley's Adm. vs. Burgess et al., (18
How., 417); Swanton vs. Morton, (1 Cur., C. C., 294); Warren va

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

481

.Taylor vs. Morton.
Peser, (2 Cur., C. C.0, 235); Thomson vs. ffazwell, (2 Blatch.
C. 0., 391).
Persons importing merchandize are required to make their
protests distinct and specific, to apprise the collectors of the
customs of the nature of the objections made to the payment of
the duties before it is too late to remove them or to modify the
charge, and in order that the officers of the Government may
know what they have to meet in case they decide to exact the
duties, notwithstanding the objection, and expose the Government to the risk of litigation.. For these reasons we are of the
opinion that the second, question presented for the consideration
of the Court must also be answered in the negative, and consequently the .plaintiff cannot recover in this case. Having coine
to that conclusion it is unnecessary to consider the question
arising upon the merits The judgment of the Circuit Court
therefore is reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, with
instructions to issue a new venire.

TAYLOR vs. MORTON.

I A case coming into this Court from the Circuit Court on a writ
of error, issued under the 22d section of the Judiciary Act, when
the record shows.that no exception was taken below, is not to
be treated like a case with a similar record which comes up
from a State Court under the 25th section.
9. In a ease whichcomes from a State Court, under the 25th section,
it must appear by the record that some one of the questions
stated in that section arose and was determined, otherwise this
Court is wholly without jurisdiction and can only dismiss the
writ
3. If the cause is brought up from a Circuit Court it is to be either
affirmed or reversed, and it will of course be affirmed if the
record, does not present some ground of reversal.
This was a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts. It was like the case Qf
voL. ..

