SUPREME

COURT.

Ward et al. vs. Chamberlainet al.

WARD ET AL. vs. CHAMBERLAIN ET AL.

1. The power of the Supreme Court of the United States to revise
the proceedings of a Circuit Court in a case brought up on s
certificate of division is'strictly confined to the questions stated
in the certificate.
2. Judgments and decrees rendered in the Courts of the United
States are liens upon the defendant's real estate in all cases
where similar judgments or decrees of the State Courts are
made liens by the law of the State.
8. A decree-for the payment of money in an admiralty suit in personam stands in this respect upon the same footing as a decree
in equity.
4. Judgments and decrees in equity, rendered by the State Courts
of Ohio, are, by the laws of that State, liens upon lands;
Therefore,
5. Where one party filed his libel against another in the Federal
District Court for Ohio, claiming damages by a collision of
two vessels on the Lake and got a decree in personam for
money as compensation, the decree is a lien on the respondent's land.
6. That lien gives the libellant a right to levy on the lands to which
it attaches and consequently such interest in the lands as will
enable him to sustain a bill of discovery against the respondent and any third person who sets up an unfounded claim
under a different lien.
7. On such a bill, the respondent, if he makes out his case, is entitled to a decree which will remove the cloud from his title,
but the Court cannot proceed further, and in the same case
order the land to be sold for the payment of the debt found
die by the original decree.
This case came up on a certificate of division in opinion
between the Judges of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern .District of Ohio.
Tbt complainants, on the 12th day of November, A. D. 1856
upon ippeal from the District Court. obtained a decree in the

DECEMBER TEAM, 1862.
Ward et al. -vs. Chamberlain et al.
Circuit Court zf the United States for the Southern District of
Ohio, against the defendants, Philo Chamberlain and John H
Crawford, in a proceeding by libel for damages sustained by the
libellants by a collision on the waters of Lake Erie, between the
steamer Atlantic, belonging to the libellants, and the propeller
Ogdensburg, belonging to said Chamberlain and Crawford,
whereby the steamer was sunk and lost:
The case was taken by appeal to the Supreme Court of the
United States, and the decree of the Circuit Court there affirmed.
On the 7th day of July, 1859, a joint decree was entered
in said Circuit'Court, upon th6 mandate of the Supreme Court,
and by the agreement of the parties, against Chamberlain and
Crawford, and also against the defendants, I. L. Hewitt, John
H. Chamberlain and George W. McNeil, their' sureties in the
appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States. It was stipulated and agreed between the libellants and the defendants in
the last-named decree, that Philo Chamberlain and John H.
Crawford, the original defendants in the libel should make certain payments periodically on account of the last-named decree,
that if such payments should be punctually made, no execution
should issue; but that in default of any such'paynet being
made as required by the agreement, the complainants might
thereupon proceed to collect the amount due and unpaid, as they
should see fit. Two payments were made and two defaults
afterwards occurred: complainants caused execution to issue
'jpon the decree, against the goods and chattels, lands and tenements of the defendants therein; the 'Marshal- found no goods
or chattels whereon to levy, and for want of such goods and
chattels he levied upon the lands of the defeuddnts, situated in
the Northern District of Ohio, and described in the bill. The
other defendants claimed rights and interests in, and liens upon
said lands. The defendants had no goods or chattels liable to
execution, and no lands or tenements in the State of Ohio, other
than those levied upon and described in the bill. The prayer
of the bill was, for discovery, that the rights of the parties and the
dates and validity of their several -liens in respect of said'lands
aight be ascertained, that the lands might be sold and the proceeds

SUPREME COURT.
Ward et al. vs. Chamberlainet al.
applied, so far as could of right be done, to the payment of the
amount due, and for general relief.
To this bill the defendants filed a general demurrer.
A hearing was had on the questions raised by the demurrer
in the Circuit Court at the July Term, 1860, and the opinions of
the Judges being opposed, the questions were certified to this
Court for decision.
The points of law upon which the Circuit Court divided are
distinctly set forth by Mr.. Justice Clifford in the opinion of this
Court.
Mr. Newberry, of Ohio, for Complainants.
21r. Spalding, of Ohio, for Defendants.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD. This is a bill in equity, and the
case comes before the Court on a certificate of division in
opinion between the Judges of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Ohio. According to the
transcript the bill of complaint sets forth that the complainants,
on the 12th day of November, 1856, upon appeal from the District Court of the United States, obtained a decree in the Circuit
Court for the Southern District of Ohio for the sum of $36,000
against the two respondents first named, in a proceeding by
libel, filed in the District Court on the 27th day of October,
1852, for damages sustained, as alleged in the libel, by means of
a collision on the waters of Lake Erie, between the steamer
Atlantic, belonging to the libellants, and the propeller Ogdensburg. belonging to the aforesaid respondents, whereby the
steamer was sunk and lost. Complainants also allege*that the
case was taken by appeal to this Court, and that the decree of
the Circuit Court was here affirmed; that on the 7th day of July,
1859, when the mandate of this Court was received and filed in
the Circuit Court, a joint decree, by the agreement of the parties.
was entered there against the original respondents and their
sureties on the appeal to this Court; that the parties to the last
named decree stipulated and agreed between themselves that the

* DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

433

Ward et aZ. vs. Chamberilainet al.
original respondents should make certain payments at stated
times on account of the decree, and that if such payments were
regularly and punctually made, no execution should issue on
the decree, but that they also stipulated and agreed that in
default of any such payment as required by the agreement, the
complainants might thereupon proceed to collect the amount
due and unpaid as they should see fit.
They also allege that two payments of $1,000 each were duly
made under the stipulation and agreement, but that the aforesaid respondents subsequently made default, andl when a second
default had occurred, the complainants caused execution to
issue upon the last named decree against the goods and chattels,
lands and tenements of the respondents in that decree, and
delivered the same to the Marshal, and that the Marshal, finding
no goods or chattels of the execution debtors, and for want of
such, levied the execution upon certain parcels of land belonging to them, situated in the Northern District of Ohio, and which
are particularly descibed in the bill of complaint. Rights and
interests in, and liens upon the lands are clmimed by the other
respondents, as the complainants allege, in regard to which they,
the complainants, are not particularly advised; and they also
allege that the respondents owned the lands levied upon and
described in the bill of complaint at and before the time of the
rendition of the first named decree, and have so owned the
same ever since that timp, and that they have no other lands or
tenements in the State, and have no goods or chattels liable to
execution.
Prayer of the bill of complaint is for discovery, and that the
rights of the parties and the dates and validity of their several
liens in respect of the lands .may be ascertained, and that the
lands may be sold and the proceeds applied so far as can of
right be done, to the payment of the amount due upon the
decrees and for general relief. To the bill of complaint therespondents in the decrees demurred and the complainants joined
in demurrer, thereupon the following quetions of law occurred
before the Court, in regard to which the opinions of the Judges
of the Court were opposed.
28
VOL. II.

SUPREME COURT.
Ward et al. vs. Chamberlainet al.
1. Whether either of the decrees was a lien upon the real
-state of the respondents therein who owned such-real estate as
aforesaid.
2. Whether an execution can be issued upon a decree in
idmiralty in Ohio against the lands of the respondents, they
having no goods and chattels liable to execution to satisfy the
same.
3. Whether the issuing and levying of the execution in this
case, as aforesaid, were not nullities, and whether the levy 6f the
execution in anywise bound the lands upon which the same was
levied.
4. Whether real estate can be reached by proceedings in
chancery to satisfy a decree in admiralty in Ohio, where the
respondent has no goods or chattels liable to execution.
I. Provision is made by the Act of the 29th of April, 1802,
that whenever any question shall occur before a Circuit Court,
upon which the opinions of the Judges shall be opposed, the
point upon which the disagreement may happen, shall, during
the same term, upon the request of either party or their counsel,
be stated under the direction of the Judges, and certified under
the seal of the Court, to the Supreme Court at their next session
to be held thereafter, and shall by the said Court be finally
decided. 2 Stat. at Large, 156. Such certificate, as has repeatedly
,been held by this Court, brings nothing before this Court for its
¢onsideratiol but the points or questions certified, as required
by the 6th section of the act. Defective certificates are sometimes sent up, but in such case the Court uniformly refuses to
certify-any opinion, and remands the cause for further proceedings, "holding, under all circumstances, that nothing can come
before this Court, under that provision, except such single
definite questions as shall actually arise and become the subject
of disagreement in the Court below, and be duly certified here
for decision. Ogle vs. Lee, (2 Cran., 33); Perkins vs. Hart's Exr,
(11 Whea., 237); Kennedy et al. vs. Georgia State Bank, (8 How,
p. 611.) All suggestions, therefore, respecting 'ny supposed
informality in the decree, or irregularities in the proceedings of
the suit, are obviouisly premature and out of place, and may well

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

485

Ward et al. vs. Chanberlainet al.
be dismissed without further remark; because no such inquiries
are involved in the points certified, and by all the decisions of
this Court matters not so certified are not before the Court for
its consideration, but remain in the Court below to be determined by the Circuit Judges. Way-man vs. Southard,(10 Whea,
21); Saunders vs. Gould, (4 Pet., 392.) Such other matters,
undoubtedly, may be brought here for revision by another certificate of division in an opinion like the present, or by an appeal
after final judgment, but nothing of the kind is here now for the
consideration of the Court.
II. Recurring to the questions certified in the transcript, it is
obvious that the first three involve the same general considerations, and present the important inquiries-1. Whether a decree
in admiralty for the payment of money, rendered in a Federal
Court, in a suit in personam under the circumstances stated, is a
lien upon the lands of the respondents in the decree, and, if so,
then-2. Whether an execution issued on the same may, for the
want of goods and chattels of the execution debtor, be lawfully
levied on his real estate. Libellants, under the 21st rule in
admiralty, adopted at the last session of this Court, may have a
writ of execution in the nature of afierifaciasin all cases of a
final decree for the payment of money, commanding the marshal
or his deputy to levy and collect the amount thereof out of the
goods and chattels, lands anid tenements, or other real estate of
the defendant or stipulator. Execution, however, was issued
upon the decree described in the bill of complaint in 1860, before
the present rule was adopted, and while the old rule adopted in
1845 was in operation. By that rule it was provided that the
libellant might, at his election, have an attachment to compel
the defendant to perform the decree or a writ of execution in
the nature of a capias, and of a fier' facias, commanding the
Marshal or his deputy to levy the amount thereof of the goods
and chattels of the defendant, and for want thereof to arrest his
body to answer the exigency of the execution. Authority was
given to the Courts of the United States, by the 17th section of
the Judiciary Act, to make and establish all necessary rules for
the orderly conducting of business in the said Courts, provided

SUPREME COURT.
Ward et al. vs. Chamberlainet al.
such rules were not repugnant to the laws of the United States;
and by the 7th section of the Act of the 2d of Mfarch, 1793,
additional authority was conferred upon the several Courts of
the United States to make rules and orders for their respective
Courts directing certain prescribed proceedings, and other
matters in the vacation, and otherwise in a manner not repugnant to the laws of the United States, and to regulate the practice of said Courts respectively for the advancement of justice,
and to prevent delays in the proceedings. 1 Stat. at Large, pp.
83, 335.
Full power and authority were also- given to this Court by the
6th section of the Act of the 23d of August, 1842, to prescribe,
regulate, and alter the forms of writs and other process to be
used and issued in the District and Circuit Courts, and the forms
and modes of framing and filing libels, bills, answers, and other
pleadings and proceedings in suits at common law, or in adm.
ralty and in equity, pending in those Courts, and also the forms
and modes of taking and obtaining evidence, and of obtaining
discovery, and of proceeding to obtain relief, and of proceeding
before trustees appointed by the Court, and generally to regulate the whole practice of the said Courts so as to prevent delays
and promote the other objects specified in the section. 5 Stat.
at Large. 510. None of those provisions, however, authorize
this Court to adopt rules making judgments or decrees for the
payment of money a lien on land where no such charge is created by law, or to displace any such right where the same is
conferred or recognized by an Act of Congress. Remarks are
to be found in the opinion of the Court in Be, el al. vs.
1Ia(,tld7on, (9 Pet., 360), which give some coumtenance to that
theory, but the remarks were not necessary to the adjudication
of the matter in controversy, and evidently should be understood as refcrring to the examples previously mentioned in the
opinion of the Court, where process had been modified to make
it confbrm to State laws adopted by rule of Court. Congress,
say the Court, may adopt suob State laws directly or by substantive enactment, or they may confide the authority to adcpt them
to the Courts of the United States: and the Judge who delivered

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Ward el al..
vs. ChamberZ

487

et d.

the opinion, in enforcing the preposition, went on to say that the
Courts may by their rules not only alter the forms, but the effect
and operation of process, both mesne and final, so that it may
reach property not before liable, or may exempt property previously subject to such process.
Explained as above, the remarks are perhaps without objection, but it -cannot for a moment be admitted that any rule
adopted by this Court, merely as such, can enlarge, diminish, or
vary the operation and effect of mesne or final process upon the
property of the debtor in. respect to the matter under consideration. Although a lien on land constitutes no property or right
in the land itself, still it confers a right to levy on the same to
the exclusion of other adverse interests acquired subsequently
to the judgment, and when the levy is actually made on the land
affected by the lien, tte title of the creditor generally relates
back to the time of the jxdgment, so as to cut out intermediate
incumbrances.

Conrmd vs. The Atlantic Ins. Co., (1 Pet., 443);

Afassingill vs. Downs, (11 How., 67.) 'Different regulations,
however, prevail upon the dubject in different jurisdictions, and
in some of the States neither judgments nor decrees for the pay
nient of money, except in cases of attachment on mense process,
create any preference in favor of the creditor until the execution
issuing on the same has been duly levied on the land. Reference
is made to these various regilations as confirming the proposition
that rules of Court can have no effect to create such a right, or
o displace it where it has been conferred by the Legislature.
III. Two errors, as was supposed, existed in the old rule, and
it was on that account that it was abolished and the new one was
substituted in its place. Arrest of the body of the debtor was
,mproperly allowed, and the remedy of the creditor against the
property of the debtor was improperly restricted. 5 Stat. 1t
Large, pp. 321, 410; 4 Stat. at Large, 281. Repeal of the old
rule corrected one of the suyuosed errors and the new rule was
adopted to correct the other, so that the practice of the Admiralty
Conits upon both subjects might conform to the existing provisions of law. Such were the views of the Court at tne time
the alteration was made in the rule, but it is insisted by the

SUPREME

UOU1Rl.

Ward et al. vs. Chamberlain et al.
respondents that decrees in admiralty, although rendered in suits
in personam and for the payment of money, are not in any case
a lien on land under the laws of Congress. They do not deny
that judgments and decrees in equity, for the payment of money,
are a lien on land in the State of Ohio; nor that, by the laws of
Congress, such judgments and decrees in the Federal Courts
follow in that respect the laws of the State in which the same
were rendered or pronounced.
Argument in support of the first proposition is certainly
unnecessary, because it is the subject of express legislation.
Code, sec. 421; Swan's Stat., 675. Laws to that effect were
passed at a very early period in the history of the State, and
they appear to have been continued to the present tim'.
Repeated decisions of this Court also have established the
doctrine, that the lien of judgments and decrees in the Federal
Courts arises out of the adoption of the State laws upon that
subject, and that the lien may be considered as a rule of property
under the thirty-fourth section of the Judiciary Act. CLments
vs. Berry, (11 How., 411); United States vs. Aforrison, (4 Pet., 124):
Ralston vs. Bell, (2 Dall, 158). To the same effect, also, is the
decision of Mr. Justice Grier, in Lombard vs. Bayard, (1 Wall,
Jr., 96), wherein he held: "1. That the lien of judgments in the
Courts of the United States does not result from any direct
legislation of Congress on that subject. 2. That under the Judiciary Act, which ordains that the laws of the several States shall
be the rules of decision at common law, the Courts of the United
States" have uniformly adopted the principles of State policy
and jurisprudence on the subject of the lien of judgments, so far
as the same were applicable, treating them as rules affecting real
property, and its transmission, whether by descent or purchase.
Regarding those propositions in the form first stated as settled
and undeniable, nothing remains for consideration on this branch
of the case except to inquire and ascertain whether or not
decrees in admiralty for the payment of money stand upon the
same footing as decrees in t quity; for if they stand upon the
same, then it is clear that the first three questions must be

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Ward et al vs. Chamberlainet al.
answered in the affirmative, and if not, then. they must be
answered in the negative.
4. Expressions are to be found in one or more of the cases
referred to which countenance the idea that the State laws in
respect to the lien of judgments and decrees were adopted by
the Courts of the United States, but upon a closer examination
)f the subject it will appear, we think, that those laws are recognized and substantially adopted by the Acts of Congress regu.
lating process in the Courts of the United States. Authority
was given to all the Courts of the United States by the 14th
Section of the Judiciary Act to issue writs of scire facias, habeas
corpus, and all other writs not specially provided for by statute
which may be necessary for the exercise of their respective
jurisdictions, and agreeable to the principles and usages of law.
Provision was also made by the 2d Section of the Act of the
29th of September, 1789, that the forms of writs and executions,
except their style and modes of process, should be the same in
-each State, respectively, as were then used or allowed in the
Supreme Court of the same; but it was provided that the formo
and modes of proceedings in causes of equity and admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction should be according to the course of
the civil law. Power to issue process, mesne and final, was conferred upon all the Courts of the United States by the first pro.
vision, but the forms of process in suits at common law and the
forms and modes of proceedings in equity and admiralty and
maritime causes were prescribed by the second. Dis'lrimination
'was made between suits at common law and suits in equity and
*admiralty, but the forms and modes of proceedings in the two
latter were referred to the civil law. Expiring, as the last
named Act did, at the .end of the next session after which it was
passed, further legislation became necessary, and Congress accordingly passed the Act of the 8th of May, 1792, confirming
the forms of writs, executions, and other process then used in
the Courts of the United States in suits at common law, but
declaring, in effect, that the forms and modes of proceeding in
suits of equity, and in those of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, should be according to the principles, rules, and usagen

SUPREME COURT.
Ward et al. vs. Chamberlainet al.
which belong to Courts of Equity and to Courts of Admiralty,
respectively, as contradistinguished from Courts of common law.
Certain exceptions are specified in the same section, and the
whole provision is made subject to such regulations as the
Supreme Court of the United States shall think proper, from time
to time, by rule, to prescribe to any Circuit or District Court
concerning the same. (1 Stat. at Large, 276).
Two cases at least came before this Court involving the construction of that provision and its validity. Those cases among
other things affirm: 1. That the States have no authority to
control or regulate the proceedings in the Courts of the United
States, except so far as the State Process Acts are adopted by
Congress, or by the Courts of the United States under the
authority of Congress. 2. That the foregoing provision adopted
the forms of writs, executions, and other process of the States as
existing in 1789. subject to such alterations as the Courts of the
United States might make, but not subject to alterations since
made in the State laws. 3. That the laws of the United States
a ithorize the Courts of the Union so to alter the form of the
p rocess of execution then used in the State Courts as to subject
to execution lands and other property not then subject to execution by the State laws in force at that time. Wayman vs.
Southard (10 When., 41, 43); Ban/t of U.. AS.vs. Halstead,(10
Wheat., 63). In enforcing the third proposition, Mr. Justice
Thompson in the last case said it is understood that it has been
the general, if not the universal, practice of the Courts of the
United States so to alter their executions as to authorize a levy
upon whatever property is made subject to the like process from
the State Courts, and under such alterations many sales of land
have no doubt been made which might be disturbed if a contrary construction should be adopted. Both of those cases
were decided- in 1825, and at the same term this Court held, in
the case of Manro vs. Almelia, (10 When., 490,) that the pro.
ceedings in cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, under
the beforementioned Process Act, were to be according to the
moaified admiralty practice of our own country, and that it was
not a sufficient objection to the issuing of the process of attach-

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

441

Ward el al. vs. Chamberlain et al.

ment that it had fallen into disuse in the parent country. Such
was the state of the decisions of this Court when the Act of
the 19th. of May, 1828, was passed. 4 Stat. at Large, 278.
Regulation of mesne process is the subject of the first section,
commencing with the forms of mesne process in suits at commcn
law in the Courts of the United States held in those States admitted into the Union since the date of the first process act.
Forms of mesne process in those Courts are required to be the
same in each of the said States respectively "as are now used in
the highest Court of original and general jurisdiction of the
same." Separate provision is also made in the samesection in
respect to the forms of mesne process in proceedings in equity
and in those of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. Repetition
of those regulations is unnecessary, as they are substantially the
same as those of the former act, except that the regulations relate solely to mesne process. Right of imparlance also is made,
by the second section of the act, to depend in certain cases upon
State laws. Where judgments are a lien upon the property of
the defendant, and where, by the laws of the State, defendants
are entitled in the Courts thereof to an imparlance of one term
or more, the provision is that the defendants in actions in the
Courts of the United States, holden in such State, shall be entitled
to an imparlance. of one term. showing that it was the intention
of Con'gress to prevent a creditor suing in the Federal Courts
from obtaining an advantage over another creditor suing in the
State Courts. Bearing in mind that the first section of the act
under consideration has respect solely to the forms of mesne process in the several Courts of the United States, and that the provision specifies and prescribes the source from which the forms
of such process shall be derived in suits of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, as well as in suits at common law and in equity,
w& come to the examination of the third section of the samesact,
which provides that writs of execution and other final process
issued on judgments and decrees rendered in any of the Courts of

the United States, and the proccedingthereupon shall be the same,
except their style, in each Stat- respectively, as are now used in
tho Courts of such State, saving to the Courts of the United States

SUPREME COURT.
Ward et al. vs. Chamberlainet al.
in those States in which there are not Courts of Equity, with the
ordinary equity jurisdiction, the power of prescribing the mode
of executing their decrees in equity by rules of Court.
Courts of justice may construe a legislative provision but they
cannot repeal what is expressly enacted. When Congress, in
plain and unambiguous terms declares that writs of execution on
decrees rendered in any of the Courts of the United States, and the
proceedings thereupon, shall be the same as are now used in the
Courts of such State, it is not possible for this Court to hold that
the decrees of one of the Courts of the United States are not embraced in .that provision; especially not, as the very Court whose
decrees it is said are excluded from the provision is specifically
mentioned in the first section of the same act as one of the Courts
of the United States, and its proceedings there made the subject
of special and material regulation. Exclusive original jurisdiction in admiralty and maritime cases is conferred upon the District Coarts of the United States, but the Circuit Courts hear such
cases on appeal, and, as matter of daily practice, render decrees
thereon for the payment of money; and it is not to be doubted,
we think, that such decrees are as much within the provision
under consideration as decrees in equity; and if so, no reason is
perceived why the same rule should not be applied to decrees
of a like character rendered in the District Courts. Undoubtedly
Congress intended by that provision to adopt the State laws in
respect to the proceedings on final process as they existed at the
date of the act, and the effect of the enactment, or one of its
effects, was to render judgments and decrees for the payment of
money rendered in the Federal Courts a lien on the land of the
debtor in all cases and under like circumstances as when rendered in the State Courts. Under 'the earlier process acts this
Court twice decided that the laws of the States furnished the
rule of decision in respect to the lien of judgments and decrees,
rendered in the Federal Courts upon the land of the debtor, and
since the passage of the act under consideration it has been twice
affirmed by this Court as a matter of history that the act was
passed to confirm the view expressed in those decisions. .3eers
et al. vs. Haughton,(9 Pet., 361); Ross et al. vs. Duval, (13 Pet,
64).

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

448

Ward et al. vs. Chamberlainet al.
Perfect coincidence of opinion upon the subject appears to
have prevailed throughout between Congress and the Court, and
on all sides apparently the endeavor has been to assimilate the.
proceedings in the Federal Courts for the levying of executions
issued on judgments and decrees for the payment of money to
those prevailing in the Courts of the States. Strong confirmation
as to the views of Congress upon the subject is derived from the
4th section of the Act ot, the 4th of July, 1840. 5 Stat. at
Large, 393. By the fourth section of that act it is provided,-that
judgments and decrees hereafter rendered in the Circuit and
District Courts within any State, shall cease to be liens on real
estate or chattles real in the same manner and at like periods as
judgments and decrees of the Courts of such State now cease by
law to be liens thereon: District Courts, as is well known, exeicise no jurisdiction in equity; so that- the inference is a very
sttong and indeed a conclusive one, that the reference to d,.crees, so far as that Court is concerned, is solely to decrees in
admiralty for the payment of money.
Imprisonment for debt also and the computation of interest
upon judgments in all civil cases, both in the Circuit and Districj Courts, are by Acts of Congress expressly referred to the
laws of the State for the rule of decision and the ascertainment
of the rights of the parties. 5 Stat. at Large, pp. 320, 410, 515."
Usage, however, it is said, is opposed to such-a construction of
the provisions under consideration, and reference is made to
authorities to show that in England an- execution issued on a
decree in the admiralty never runs against the land of the
debtor, which may well be admitted, but the reason for the
restriction must not be overlooked, which is, that Courts of
Admiralty in that country are not regarded as Courts of Record.
Under the Constitution, the judicial power of the United States
is vested in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts .as
the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish. Such
judicial power extends to all cases of 'admiralty and maritinie
jurisdiction, as well as to the cases of law and equity described
in the Constitution.
When the judicial system of the United States was organized

SUPREME

COURT.

Ward et al. vs. dkamberlain et al.
exclusive original cognizance, of all civil causes of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction was conferred upon the District
Courts. Appeals in certain cases were allowed to the Circuit
Court, but neither an admiralty or an equity cause could be
brought here from the Circuit Court in any other nmode than by
writ of error. 1 Stat. at Large, 83. Later regulations allow
appeals, but they place causes in equity, and admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, upon the same footing. 2 Stat. at Large,
244.
Circuit Courts, as well as District Courts, were created by the
Act of Congress establishing the judicial system of the United
States, and the latter as well as the former are Courts of Record.
No one ever doubted the fact, and consequently it is not necessary to enter into any argument to prove it. These considerations lead necessarily to the conclusion that the answer to the
first three questions must be in the affirmative.
5. Before proceeding to answer the fourth question submitted,
it becomes necessary to advert very briefly to the state of facts
bearing upon the point as exhibited in the transcript.. Execution
was issued on the decree in favor of the complainants, and the
marshal duly levied the same upon the several parcels of land
described in the bill of complaint. They are, therefore, interested
in the title to tlie subject-matter in controversy, and inasmuch
as the statement of the case shows that rights and interests in
and liens upon the, lands of a conflicting character are claimed
by the other parties, they, the- complainants, were entitled to the
discovery and to so much of the relief prayed for as has respect
to the ascertainment and determination of the rights and interests
of the parties and the dates and validity of their liens upon the
said lands. Equity will not allow a title to real estate, otherwise clear, to be clouded by a claim which cannot be enforceI
either at law or in equity, and consequently will interfere in
behalf of the holder of the legal title to remove a cloud on the
same, or an impediment or diffculty in the way of an effectual
assertion of his rights in a Court of law. Such interference cannot be sustained unless the complainant shows some title or
interest in the land: but it makes no difference whether such

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Ward et al. vs. Ohamberlain et al.
title or interest was acquired by the levy of an execution issued
on a judgment at law, or on a decree in equity or admiralty for
the payment of money. Complainants' rights and remedies are
precisely the same as they would have been if the execution
levied on the land had been issued on a judgment at law or a
decree in equity for the payment of money. Jurisdiction in
equity to remove a cloud from the title of the complainant is
fully maintained by the modern decisions of the Courts, and so
generally is the principle acknowledged, that all doubt upon the
subject may be considered as put at rest. 1 Story Eq. (8th ed.)
sees. 700, 705; Hamilton vs. Cummings, (1 John. Ch.R., 522);
Pettit vs. Shpherd,(5 Paige Ch.R. 501).
Where the respondents claimed an unfounded lien on certain
real estate of the complainant, and it appeared that such claim
prevented purchasers of the estate from making payment of the
stipulated price, it was held in Ch pman vs. Hartford,(21 Conn.,
488), that the complainant was entitled to a discovery and to
have the cloud removed from his title; and, in enforcing that
conclusion, the Court say that where an instrument is outstanding against'a party which is void, or an unfounded claim is set
up, which he has reason to fear may at some'time be used injuriously to his rights, thereby throwing a cloud over his title, it
is a well recognized principle that equity will interfere and
grant ihe appropriate relief. Downing vs. Wherin, (19 N. H.,
91); Tanner vs. Wise, (3 P. Wins., 296); Overman vs. Parker,(1
Hemp., 692); Clark, et al., vs. Smith, (13 Pet, 203); Lounsburz,
vs. Purdy, (18 N. Y., 515). Applying these principles to the
present case it is clear that the complainants *ere entitled to a
discovery and to have the cloud removed from their title, but
equity will not interfere under the circhmstances stated, to decree
that the lands shall he sold and the proceeds applied as prayed
in the bill of complaint. Affirmative answers must be certified
to the first three questions, and to the fourth, that the complain.
ants, under the demurrer, are entitled to so much of the relief
prayed for as has respect to the removal of the cloud upon theil
tithle to the land described in the bill of complaint but that the
real estate mentioned cannot be reached byproceedi-Igs in chan
cery to satiy the aforesaid decree.

SUPREME COURT.
Ward et al. vs. Chamberlainet al.
Mr. Justice GRIER, dissenting.
I feel bound to express my dissent from the majority of my
brethren in the opinion just delivered.
It is now seventy years since the establishment of Courts of
Admiralty in these States, yet it seems that the boundary line
of their jurisdiction is not yet settled. During all this time it
has never been supposed that the definitive sentence or decree
of a Court of Admiralty was a lien or could be levied on lands.
The dominion of the Admiral was over the sea-the ships and
men who frequented it-their contracts and their torts. His
Court proceeded either against the ship or the person of the
owner, by arrest of the thing or the person. When either was
arrested, they could be released by entering into stipulation
with approved sureties (fidejussoux,) who consented that execution should issue against their goods and chattels in case of
default.
There is no process known to Courts of Admiralty for seizing
or selling land. But it is said that this process is authorized by
the process Act of March 19, 1828.
It is now thirty-five years since that act was passed, and now
for the first time, it has been alleged that this provision lay hid
within its sections. The twenty-first rule regulating the practice
in admiralty, made by this Court in 1845,-seventeen years
after the passage of the act,-shows that this Court had then no
suspicion of the hidden meaning of the third section, which has
now been brought to light. If they had supposed that this
statute had made lands subject to lien by the decree of a Court
:f Admiralty, they would have devised some process for taking
them in execution and selling them. The first section -f the
act ordains that the forms of mesne process, &c., should be the
same in Courts of common law as are used in the highest Courts
of original and general jurisdiction of the States; and in equity
acoording to the rules and usages which belong to Courts of
Equity; but "in those of admiralty jurisdiction, according to
the principles, rules and usages of admiralty as contradistinguished from Courts of common law."
The tbrd section, which directs process of execution, speaks

1)ECE-[BER TERM, 1862.

447

Ward et at. vs. Chamberlain el al.
of judgments and decrees in any of the Courts of the United
States, and ordains that it shall be the same except in their
style, as now used in the Courts of such State. Now as there
are no Courts of Admiralty in any State, to what rule was the
process of Courts of Admiralty to conform? Is it to those of
these Courts of Common Law or Equity? The act provides that
in States where there are no Courts of Equity, the process .may
be prescribed by rules of Court.
The whole argument of this new construction of this section
is founded on the Word "any," which is construed in its most
expansive sense, in spite of consistency in the act, and the
evident intent of the legislation, as exhibited in the whole
statute.
This innovation in the jurisdiction of Admiralty Courts introduces a lien, unknown to the laws of any State.
The lien of judgments is arule of property, which it.is beyond
the power of this Court to establish. Congress has been careful
not to attempt the exercise of such a power; and only adopts
the State rules in cases where, if the judgments or decrees had
been in a State Court, they would have operated as a lien.
Congress never intended -by .this oblique Vay, to create, what
would in fact be, (to a large portion of every State,) secret liens.
I believe that the construction which this act has received for
thirty-five years past is the true one, and beg leave to protest
against this introduction of a new one, which utterly disregards
"the principles, rules and usages of Courts of Admiralty as
contradistinguished from a Court of law."
I am confident such was not the intent and meaning of Congress. The result of this doctrine may be, to bring us into
conflict with the State Courts, who may refuse to recognize titles
to land obtain'ed through the process of Maritime Courts.
kr. Justice CATRON. joined With Mr. Justice Grier in the
dissent. The other Judges concurred in the opinion of Mr.
Justice (difford.

