DECE-MBER TERM,. 1862.

571

Kellogg vs. Forsyh.
that the lot in controversy was and is in the possession of his
tenant under his title, and pursuant to his claim. Gregg vs
Tesson, 1 Black, 150; L ndor vs. Kidr, 23 Ill. R., 51; Williams
vs. Ballance et al., 23 I1. R., 197; Gregg et al. vs. Forsyth, 24
How., .179. For these reasons the judgment of the Circuit
Court is reversed, and the cause remanded, with instructions to
issue a new venire..

KELLOGG vs.

FORSYTH.

RE) NOLDS vs. FORSYTH.
1. If an exception be seasonably taken. and reserved, it may be
drawn out and sealed by the Judge afterwards, and the time
within which it may be so drawn out and presented to the
Court, must depend on the rules and practice of the Court
and the judicial discretion of the presiding Justice.
2. The doctrine held by this Court in Bryan vs..Forsyth, (19 How.,
338,) Mahan vs Forsyth, (24 How., 175,) and Gregg vs. Tesson, (1 Black, 150,) concerning the effect of the saving clause
in patents forlblaims in Peoria, re-affirmed.
Error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern'District of Illinois.
Mr. Ballance, of Illinois, for Plaintiffs in Error.
Afr. Williars, of Illinois, for Defendants.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD. These are writs of error to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Illinois. Both suits were brought in the Court below by the
present defendant against the respective plaintiffs in error.
They were actions of ejectment, and were respectively commenced on the 18th day of November, 1851, to recover possession of certain but different parts of claim numbered seven in
the village of Peoria, as confirmed to Thomas Forsyth under the
Act of Congress. approved the 3d day of March, 1823, entitled
I .

SUPREME COURT.
Kellogg vs. ForsyA.
an Act to confirm certain claims to lots in the village of Peoria,
in the State of Illinois. In each case the defendants pleaded
the general issue, and for the sake of brevity, it may be well to
say, that the proceedings in the two suits, are so nearly alike
that it will be unnecessary to refer to them separately, except in
a few particulars, which will be specially noticed Parties went
to trial in both cases at the July Term, 1856, and the verdict in
each, under the instructions of the Court, was in favor of the
plaintiff, and the respective defendants excepted. Plaintiff
claimed title in each case under a patent to the legal representatives of Thomas Forsyth, dated the 16th day of December,
1845, and it was admitted at the trial that the plaintiff had that
title. On the other hand, the defendants in the respective suits
claimed the premises under a patent issued to John L. Bogardus,
dated the 5th day of January, -1838, and granting to him the
southeast fractional quarter of section nin in township eight
north, of range eight east, in the District, of lands subject to sale,
at Quincy in the State of Illinois, subject, however, to all the
rights of any and all persons claiming under the Act of Congress of the 3d of March, 1823, entitled as already described.
Premises in controversy are included in that patent, and it -was
admitted at the trial that the defendants in the respective suits
have. had the actual possession of the land for which they are
sued by residences thereon for ten years next preceding the
commencement of the suits. Other admissions, as to the possession of the premises by the defendants, -were made at the
same time, but it is not necessary to refer to them in this investigation. Defendants in the first case requested the Court to
instruct the jury that the title under which they claimed was a
title deducible of record from the United States, and that the
plaintiff, inasmuch as he admits that they had been in posses.
sion more than seven years before the suit was commenced, is
barred by the Illinois Statute of Limitations; but the Court
refused the prayer, and among other things instructed the jury
that the entry and patent under which defendants claimed were
subj Ict to the rights of any and all persons claiming under the
Act -)f Congress of the 3d of March, 1823, so that no one claim

DECEMBER TERM, .1862.
Kellogg vs. For yth.
ing under the patent, and by virtue thereof, could caim uudei
the Statute of Limitations for seven years to have e itered into
the possession of the lot under the claim or color of title
Prayers for instruction substantially the same were also presented by the defendants in the other case, and the record shows
that they were refused by the Court, and that the instructions
given to the jury were in all respects the same as those already
recited.
1. It is insisted by the plaintiff, in the first place, that the bill
of exceptions does not show that the rulings of the Court in refusing to instruct the jury as requested, and in respect to the
instructions given, were properly excepted to at the time the
rulings were made. But sufficient appears to show that the
prayers for instruction were presented, and the instructions given
before the jury retired from the bar *of the Court, and the state.
ment at the close of the bill of exceptions and immediately
following the instructions given is, that the "defendants then
and there excepted" to the instructions, rulings, and decisibns of
the Court. Evidently the objection is substantially the same as
that considered in the case of -Dredqe et al.,vs. Forsyth, decided
at the present term and for te reasons the~e given it is overruled. United States vs. Brietling,(20 How., 252).
2. In the second place, it is insisted by the plaintiff that the
possession of the defendants were not adverse to the title of the
plaintlff. He states the proposition, but furnishes no explanation
of the grounds on which it rests. Unless it is founded on the
saving clause in the patent of the defendants, there is nothing
in either case to give it the slightest support; and if it is founded
upon that clause, it is a sufficient answer to it to say, that it proceeds upon an erroneous view as to tl6 legal effect of the patent.
Bryan el al. vs. Fo'syth, (19 How., 338); IMahan et al. vs. Forsyth,
(24 How., 175); Gregg vs. Tesson, (1 Black, 150).
3. Suggestion is also made by the plaintiff that the title of the
defendants is not such as is required by law to secure to them
the benefit of the seven years Limitation Act of the State of
Illinois, but the point has been so frequently ruled otherwise by
the State Court, and'by this Court, that we do not think it neces

SUPREME COtRT.

576

Congdon et al. and Tennessee Mining Company vs. Goodman el al.
Iary to give it any further examination. Suffice it to say, that
in our opinion the instructions requested should have been
given, and those given should have been withheld. The respective judgments of the Circuit Court are accordingly reversed
and the causes remanded, with instructions in each case to issue
a new venire.

CONGDON,

ET AL.,

AND TENNESSEE MINING
GOODMAN AND BLEDSOE.

COMPANY

vs.

A controversy in. which no right is claimed under the Constitution
or laws of the United States, but which turns entirely upon
the validity or interpretation of State Laws, is exclusively
within the jurisdiction of the State Court, and this Court has
no appellate power over its judgment.
Error to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
The defendants in error in this cause were the Common
School Commissioners of the Eighth Civil District of Polk
County, Tennessee, who in that character filed their bill on the
13th of February, 1856, in the Chancery Court at Benton, to
impeach and set aside a lease for ninety-nine years, made by
their predecessors, of the Common School Section of land in
that district, and a sale made of the same land under an order of
the Circuit Court of that County. The validity of the si1e and
lease was impeached and maintained upon the authority of State
laws. The Chancery Court dismissed the bill. On appeal to
the Supreme Court of Tennessee, the decree was reversed and
the case remanded for final proceedings. Defendants below
thereupon sued out their writ of error in the Supreme Court of
the United States.
Hr. .eigs, of Tennessee, for Plaintiff in Error.
No counsel appeared for Defendants in Error.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY.

This writ of error is directed to

