DEOEMRAR TERM, 1862.
Mississippiand Missouri Railroad Company vs. Ward.

MISSISSIPPI AND MISSOURI RAILROAD COMPANY VS. WARD.
I A public nuisance may be abated on a bill in equity, brought by
a private party, who has suffered special damage.
2. It is necessary for the plaintiff in such a bill to show that he
has sustained and is still sustaining individual injury by the
nuisance.
3. But where the bill is brought in a Federal Court, it is not necessary
to show that the plaiulff's damage amounts to the sum which
is required to give the Coats of the United States jurisdiction.
4. The jurisdiction is tested by trie value of the object to be gained
by the bill, and that object ib he removal of the nuisance.
5. The private party, though nomintt.ly suing on his own account,
acts rather as a public prosecuto. on behalf of all who are or
may be injured.
If
he has partners in the particula business affected by the
6.
nuisance, he need not join them ab plaintiffs, any more than
he need join other persons who have' suffered similar in.
juries.
7. A bill in equity, to abate a nuisance is a local suit, and can be
brought only in the District where the nuisance is situated.
8. Where the nuisance has been erected, and is maintained by
several persons or corporations, those who are not within the
jurisdiction of the Court need not be joined as defendants
in the bill.
9. In a bill for the abatement of a nuisance brought in the District
Court of the United States for the District of Iowa, that
Court can exercise no jurisdiction (locally) beyond what a
State Court of Iowa might have exercised.
10. The nuisance complained of being a bridge across the Mississippi where that river divides the States of Illinois and Iowa
and the State line being in the middle of the river, the District
Court for Iowa has no power to abate the nuisance (if it be
a nuisance) on the Illinois side.
11 If the obstruction to navigation complained of was created by
piers erected on the Illinois side ; that was an offence against
the laws of Illinois and neither a State Court of [ow a proceed-

SUPREME COURT.
Mississipiand Missouri Railroad Company vs. Ward.
ing by indictment, nor the Federal Court for that District sitting in equity can inquire into the facts or furnish a remedy.
12 Inasmuch as the removal of the three piers and three spans of
the bridge erected between the middle of the river and the
Iowa shore would not materially remedy the nuisance complained of, though it would render the bridge useless, this
Court will not affirm a decree which orders such removal.
13 If the removal of that part of the bridge which is within the
jurisdiction of the Court, would not improve the navigation
of the river, so far as the plaintiff is concerned, he is not entitled to a decree in his favor.
14. In a suit for the abatement of a nuisance, a Court of Equity
confining its inquiries within the limits of its local jurisdiction, must be governed by the same -ules which a Court of
law would act upon in trying an indictment for the same
nuisance.
15. The rule of law is that where a bridge over a navigable stream
is erected for public purposes, and produces a public benefit,
and leaves a reasonable space for the passage of vessels, it is
not indictable.
16. Another rule is that the bridge must appear plainly to be a
nuisance before it can be so decreed; since a Court of
Equity, proceeding by bill, like a Criminal Court trying an
indictment, must give the benefit of all reasonable doubts to
the defendant.
1'.

The Mississippi river being a boundary between States through.
out nearly its whole length, there are judicial difficulties in
dealing with nuisances between its shores, which can only
be removed by legislation.

Appeal from the District Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.'
On the 7th of May, 1858, James Ward filed his bill in the
District Court, praying -for an abatement of the Rock Island
Bridge over the Mississippi river, averrir.g it to be a public
nuisance, specially injuriqus to him as an owner and navigator
of steamboats to and from St. Louis, Missouri, to St. Paul, Min
nesota. The bill allegd that the MississiDpi river is a navigable

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

487

MississipTi aiad Missouri Bailroad Comapany vs Ward.

stream, the boundary line, in whole or in -part, of ten States;
that it is used as a channel of commerce and navigated by boats,
vessels, rafts, and flat-boats. That steamboats, with other craft
in tow, require a space from 120 to 140 feet in width, and, where
the bridge is, require the entire width of the river for transit,
with at least 60 feet of clear space above for masts and chimneys.
Lumber is one of the largest items of transportation, and, by
reason of the winds and currents, rafts require the entire unobstructed bed of the river. The navigation of the river is a
necessity of trade, and almost the only means of transportation
between Wisconsin; Northern Iowa, Minnesota, and the upper
Mississippi. The complainant is part owner of certain, steamboats plying between St. Louis and St. Paul, and his profits
depend upon the safety of the navigation. He avers that he has,
by the treaties with France in 1803, the Acts of Congress, and
the universal principle recognized by the common law, a right
to the free and unobstructed navigation of the river, in all parts
of it. He further'asserts that the navigation has been interru'pted, and rendered dangerous and difficult, by the erection of
a bridge from Rock Island, in the State of Illinois, to Davenport,
in the State of Iowa; that the river at that point is only about
1,300 feet wide; that it is at the lower end of the Rock Island
Rapids, which Rapids are eighteen miles in extent above the
bridge, with a fall of twenty-five or thirty feet in that distance;
that the current is unusually rapid at that point and difficult of
navigation, and that anything in the bed of the river greatly
injures the safety of boats, especially in high winds. The bill
sets out at length the manner in which the construction of the
piers and abutments of the bridge has imperiled navigation and
obstructed the stream. The complainant alleges special damage
to hb own boats, occasioned by the obstruction, the amount in
the instance of one boat, reaching a thousand dollars. Owing to
the danger of navigation, he has been compelled to pay largely
increased premiums for insurance, occasioned solely by the
bridge. The bridge and obstructions were placed in the river
by the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company, who are
made defendants, with the aid and assistance of the Chlicago and

SUPREME COURT.
Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company vs. Ward.
Rock Island Railroad Company, and a Bridge Company, created
for the purpose of its erection by the State of Illinois, and by
the aid of other persons, to the complainant unknown. The
Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company have been hitherto
and still are maintaining the said bridge as their own possession,
and for their own use and benefit. The said Company, by them.
selves, or in combination with the other companies named,
(which are not within the jurisdiction of the Co art,) are about to
increase the obstruction in the river, by greatly enlarging the
piers of the bridge. The said bridge is a common nuisance now,
and thQ increase of the size of the piers will increase the danger
and .obstruction, and further hinder and delay complainant's
boats in their passage: From the number of disasters, the difficulty of procuring evidence, the expense of preparing for trial,
and the peculiarity and diversity of the injuries sustained, suits
at law would not compensate for the damage.
The prayer of complainant was: "That on the final hearing
of this bill, the Court will order, adjudge and decree, that said
bridge was erected in violation of law, and is an obstruction to
the navigation of said river, and that the same is a nuisance, and
particularly to your orator, and that the said bridge, and the
piers thereof, and all material used therein, which injures and
obstructs the free navigation of said river, be abated and
.removed, and the said river be restored to its original capacity
for all purposes of navigation."
The defendant in his answer admits that the Mississippi is a
channel of commerce, navigated by boats, vessels, &c., and that
steamboats sometimes have barges in tow; but denies that they
require the space alleged, and avers that the width of boats with
'their barges does not usually exceed seventy feet, so that the
whole width of the river is not necessary to the safe transit of
such boats. Denies that sail vessels ever navigate the river.
Admits that the amount of lumber rafted down the river is great,
but avers that rafts do not usually exceed seventy feet in width,
while the piers of the bridge are two hundred and fifty feet
apart.
Defendant neither admits or denies the ownership of said

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

•489

Alisstsbippi and Missouri Railroad Company vs. Ward
bridge, and avers that if it is so, the joint owners with defendant
ought to be made parties defendant herein, and, claims the
same benefit as though objection had been taken by demurrer
for want of proper parties herein; that he has no knowledge or
information as to purposes for which said boats were built or
the business of complainant; denies that complainant has the
right as claimed in all parts 'of said 'river; and avers that the
right to build a bridge is as sacred as the right of navigation,
where no material obstruction is created, and denies that the
treaties, Acts of Congress and principles of law prevent the construction of a bridge;' denies that the navigation has been obstructed or rendered dangerous and difficult by the erection of a
bridge, as alleged; that the water way is one thousand three
hundred 'and twenty-two feet; that the current through the
draw in high water is about five miles per hour; that in time of
high winds boats were not accustomed to go over the'rapids.
The answer describes the bridge minutely, and avers that
since its completion in 1856, there have been more than one
thousand seven hundred passages of steamboats through the
draw, many of them with barges in tow, one with six barges.
Defendant admits that the interruption in the flow of water
caused by the bridge increases the current flowing past said
bridge, but avers that such increase does not exceed the rate of
one half mile per hour.
Defendant has no knowledge or information as to any injury
to the steamboats'of said complainant as alleged, but if either
have been so injured they were out of the steamboat channel
and negligently and improperly navigated and managed, as the
current is straight and direct through the draw'on the Illinois
side of the draw pier, and if the boats had been put in their pro.
per positions they would have passed through safely.
Defendant has no knowledge or information as to increased
rates of insurance.
Admits that the defendant and the Railroad Bridge Company,
a body corporate and politic, created by and existing under and
-ithin the State of Illinois, by an At of the Legislature of tne

SUPREME COURT.
Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company vs. Wai d.

State of Illinois, jointly erected said bridge at the joint and
equal cost of said companies, and are the owners thereof, and
that the same was permitted and authorized by the laws of the
respective States of Iowa and Illinois, and that said parties are
using the same as their joint possession and property, and not
separated, and for the use and benefit of the passage of the trains
of cars of this defendant and the Chicago and Rock Island Railroad Company; and this defendant insists that the said Railroad
Bridge Company is a necessary party hereto, and that no decree
granting relief as prayed in said bill can be given without materially affecting and destroying the property and interest of said
Railroad Bridge Company, and defendant claims the same
benefit for want of proper parties as though it had demurred
thereto for that cause.
Defendant further alleges, that on the 11th day of June, in the
year 1855, the said Railroad Bridge Company, with the assent
of this defendant, conveyed by deed of trust or mortgage to
Azariah C. Flagg the said railroad bridge and its appurtenances,
to secure the payment of four hundred bonds of $1,000 each,
made and issued by the said Railroad Bridge Company for the
construction of said bridge, and that such deed of trust or mortgage was duly recorded in the Recorder's office of Rock Island
County, in the State of Illinois, and in the office of the Recorder
of Deeds, in Scott County, Iowa; that such deed of trust is
outstanding and in full force; that a decree abating the bridge
would entirely destroy the interest held by said Flagg under
such mortgage, and this defendant says that said Flagg is a
necessary and proper party to this suit, and that a decree as
prayed for cannot be made without destroying the interest and
property of said Azariah C. Flagg.
Defendant admits that it and the Railroad Bridge Company
intended to repair pier No. 4 by adding four feet on one side
and five feet on the other; this has been found necessary b)
reason of cracks in it and the danger of its yielding to the
pressure of the ice at the breaking up of the river in the spring,
that such structure has cost nearly $500,000 and would be in
danger ules said repairs and addition to the pier were made

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

491

Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company vs. Ward.

Defen Jant admits that it has built a railroad to Iowa City as
chargeid, that the eastern terminus of said railroad is the eastern
boundary of the State of Iowa as prescribed in its articles of
association.
Defendant denies the increased obstruction or hindrance or
d~lay and damage from the enlargement and repairs; and avers
that complainant has an adequate remedy at law.
As to the refusal of persons to ship freight on complainant's
boats by reason of the danger of passing the bridge, defendant
does not believe it.
A large body of conflicting testimony was taken to establish
the respective allegations of the bill and answer. After several
preliminary hearings, the cause was submitted upon the bill,
answer and evidence. The Court rendered a decree in favor of
the complainant, and ordered that so much of the bridge as was
in Iowa should be abated. From this decree defendant appealed
to the Supreme Court of the United States.
.1r.Cook, of Illinois, and Mr. Reverdy Johnson, of Maryland,

for Appellants.
2fr. Lincoln, of Ohio, for Appellee.
Mr. Justice CATRON. James Ward charges the Mississippi
and Missouri Railroad Company with having created a nuisance
by erecting a bridge across the Mississippi river at Rock Island,
and prays that the nuisance may be abated.
The respondent resists the relief prayed, on the ground, among
others, that the complainant doos not stand in a position to
maintain this suit.
Ward was part owner of three steamboats-and commander
of one of them-navigating the river in successive trips between
St. Louis and St. Paul ; and which boats, the complainant alleges,
were much injured and delayed by the bridge, which he avers
is a great obstruction to navigation-amounting to a prominent
nuisance. It is insisted that Ward cannot sue alone, and could
. Ily come before the Court jointly with the other part owners

SUPREME COURT.
Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company vs. Wiard.
of the vessels injured and delayed. He seeks no damages by his
bill, but only an abatement of the nuisance, as a preventive
remedy against future injury and delay.
A bill in equity to abate a public nuisance, filed by one who
has sustained special damages, has succeeded to the former mode
in England of an information in Chancery, prosecuted on behalf
of the Crown, to abate or enjoin the nuisance as a preventive
remedy. The private party sues rather as a public prosecutor
than on his own account ; and unless he shows that he has sustained, 9nd is still sustaining, individual damage, he cannot le
heard. He seeks redress of a continuing trespass and wrong
against himself, and acts in behalf of all others, who are or may
be injured; nor is there more necessity for joining with his
partners in the prosecution than there is for his joining in the
suit any other person, as complainant, who has sustained injury.
Gibbons on Dilapidation, 402. The character of the nuisance
and the sufficiency of the damage sustained is to be judged by
the Courts. Iverson vs. Jfoore, (Ld. Ray, 486; 1 Salk., 15);
Gibbons on Dilapidation, 403. But the want of a sufficient
amount of damage having been sustained to give the Federal
Courts jurisdiction, will not defeat the remedy, as the removal
of the bstruction is the matter of controversy, and the value of
the object must govern.
It is next objected that there are not proper defendants
brought7 before the Court. The Chicago and Rock Island Railroad Company, who own the bridge on the Illinois side of the
river, and the Bridge Company who built it, and also A. C.
Flagg, who holds a mortgage on the bridge as trustee for others
who advanced money to aid in its erection, are not made parties
to the suit. The Chicago and Rock Island Railroad Company,
and the Bridge Company, are incorporated, and located in the
State'of Illinois, and Flagg resides in the State of New York.
The alleged nuisance is situate in Iowa, and being local, the suit
could only be brought in that State; and, therefore, the Court
had no power to bring these parties in interest before it.
If the Iowa corporation could have been individually indi.ted
for creating the nuisance, no reason exists why it should not be

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

493

Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company vs. Ward.

individually prosecuted in Chancery for its abatement. But the
facts present a much more serious objection to the complainant's
right to sue than either of those above stated. The Constitution
of Illinois calls for the middle of the Mississippi river as tho
western boundary of that State, and as Iowa was admitted into
the Union after Illinois, a line in the middle of the river is the
dividing line between the States.
The complainant sued in the Federal Court because of his
citizenship in a different State from the defendant; and the
United States District Court holden in Iowa exercised the same
jurisdiction that a State Court of Iowa could have exercised,
and no more. It had no power beyond the middle of the river.
On that part of the bridge within Iowa, and its piers, the Court
below acted, and ordered that the structure should be remo{,ed.
In considering the merits and the other question as respects
the complainant's right to sue, some additional facts need be
stated.
This bridge is one thousand five hundred and seventy feet
long, and the number of piers is six. Three of them are on the
Iowa side of the river. The draw pier is the fourth; it is three
hundred and eighty-six feet long at its bottom, and forty.five
feet wide. The draw space on the Iowa side is one hundred and
eleven feet, and on the Illinois side one hundred and sixteen
feet wide in the clear. The distance from centre to centre of the
small piers is two hundred and fifty-seven feet. The long pier
stands at an angle -with the thread of the current of about twentyfour degrees, and the small piers are nearly on a line with the
thread of the current. The Illinois draw passage is directly
over the deepest channel of the river, and directly over the usual
track of steamboats before the bridge was built. The Mississippi
is about one thousand four hundred and ten feet wide at the
bridge, and the middle of the river is about eighty feet westwardly of the long pier.
The Illinois draw passage (one hundred and sixteen feet), the
width of the long pier (forty-five feet), and the eighty feet between
it and the eastern line of Iowa cover a space of two hundred and
forty feet of water-way, and which embraces the main channel,

SUPREME COURT.
Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Compaan vs. Ward.
where steamboats have at all times navigated. It was at the
long pier, and in the Illinois draw east of that pier, that the
complainant's boats sustained the injuries on which he found his
right to sue the Iowa corporation, and to proceed against the
bridge in rem as a public nuisance.
An indictment could only have been prosecuted against the
owner for keeping up the nuisance in Illinois in the Courts of
that State, because the nuisance was a trespass and crime against
the laws of Illinois, and the injuries to the complainant's boats
giving him the privilege to sue and abate the obstruction was as
local as the public right to indict. He asks nothing from th'
person of the defendant, but seeks to remove a local object.
because he has sustained special damage from that object.
The District Court had no power over the local object inflicting the injury; nor any jurisdiction to inquire of the facts,
whether damage had been sustained, or how much. These facts
are beyond the Court's jurisdiction and powers of inquiry, and
outside of the case.
The District Court ordered three spans of the bridge and three
of its piers to be removed, extending to middle of the river:
And what would be the consequence if we were to affirm that
decree? It would, as a consequence, render the bridge useless
throughout, but it would not materially remedy the nuisance
complained of. The navigation would certainly not be improved
so far as the complainant is concerned by removing the Iowa
end of the bridge. The cross currents alleged to exist would
remain; the large eddy at the lower end of the long pier, and
the obstruction to the Iowa draw-passage by the eddy, would
still remain.
In the next place: Is the bridge west of the Illinois boundary
an unreasonable obstruction, and therefore a nuisance, that a
Court of Chancery can lawfully remove? In considering this
question we must be governed by the same rule on which a
Court of law could proceed in case of an indictment against the
Bridge Company for committing the nuisance; and the rule is
that if the abrigdment of the right of passage occasioned by the
erection was for a public purpose and produced a public benefit

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

499

Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company vs. Ward.
and if the erection was in a reasonable situation, and a reascnable space was left for the passage of vessels on the river, then
it is not an unreasonable obstruction and indictable. Rex vs.
Russell, (6 Barn. & Cresw., 566; 13 How., 623; 15 Wendell, 133.)
Then, again, the obstruction to navigation must be plainly a
nuisance within this rule before it can be removed by decree.
If the proceeding was by indictment, and .the jury doubted
whether the obstruction was a nuisance or not, they would be
instructed to acquit the defendant; and so, if this case was
referred to a jury to try the fact, and they doubted, they would
be bound to acquit. And the same rule applies in a Court of
Chancery where the Court ascertains the fact of nuisance. 2
Story's Com. on Eq., 203, 204.
To say the least in this case, it is certainly very doubtful
whether the bridge on the Iowa side is a serious obstruction,
amounting.to a nuisance.
The smaller piers on that side are parallel with the current
passing through them, and do not occasion much impediment of
navigation to boats without chimneys, nor to rafts.
The main channel where steamboats uniformly pass before the
bridge was built, and must now pass, is eastwardly of the middle
of the river, and on the Illinois side. On this state of the facts,
it must be admitted that it is hardly possible to deal with the
whole obstruction of any bridge across the Mississippi river, it
being a boundary between States almost throughout its whole
length. And it is difficult to decree in anyr case of material
obstruction, unless the whole nuisance is in the power of the
Court. The case before us presents the difficulty very prominently. The plaintiff's case mainly rests on the fact that the
draw pier is at an angle to the current, and it is assumed that if
this pier was re-constructed parallel with the current, and the
draw on the Illinois side was widened the obstruction would be
-removed to a degree making it short of a nuisance. Now this
is a question that we cannot examine, nor reach by a iecree, as
the relief suggested is clearly beyond our power in this suit
Congress could extend the jurisdiction of the Federal Courts
across the Mississippi river by enlarging the judicial districts on

SUPREME COURT.
Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company vs. Ward.

either side; or it could confer concurrent jurisdiction on adjoining districts, extending to trespasses and torts committed within
the shores of the river. But the Courts of justice cannot do it
unless authorized by an Act of Congress.
It is also insisted with great earnestness that the public is
entitled to the free navigation of the whole river from bank to
bank, and as the western half of the river is undeniably within
the jurisdiction of Iowa, it follows that the bridge is a clear
nuisance within that district to the extent of half its length.
According to this assumption no lawful bridge could be built
across the Mississippi anywhere; nor could the great facilities
to commerce, accomplished by the invention of railroads, be
made available where great rivers had to be crossed.
It is ordered that the bill be dismissed and that the costs be
divided-each party paying its own.
Mr. Justice NELSON, dissenting. I am unable to agree to
the opinion of the majority of the Court in this case. The main
issue presented on the pleadings and proofs involves the question, whether or not, the free navigation of the Mississippi river
is obstructed by the erection of the bridge in question across
its bed.
The bridge spans the entire stream. As I understood the
opinion, it neither denies nor admits the obstruction, but places
the decision upon the ground, that the jurisdiction of the Court
is incompetent to reach or deal with the question.
The east line of the boundary of the State of Iowa and which
constitutes the boundary of the District of the Federal Court, and
of course of its jurisdiction, is the middle of the Mississippi river:
and the same line constitutes the wcst boundary of the State of
Illinois, and of course the limit of the jurisdiction of the Federal
Court in that State. One moiety, therefore, of the bed of this
river is embraced within the local jurisdiction of this Court for
the District of Iowa and the other moiety within the jurisdiction
of the Court for the District of Illinois. Neither Court possess any
local jurisdiction over the entire river, and hence the idea that
neither Court is competent or equal to deal with the obstruction;

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

497

Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company vs. Ward.
and especially that the Court in the Iowa District cannot deal
with it on the Illinois side; and for the same reason the Court
in the Illinois District could not, if the suit was in that Court,
deal with it on the Iowa side.
Now one plain answer to this course of argument seems to me
is, that the obstruction complained of is an obstruction of the
moiety of the river on the Iowa side, and within the admitted
jurisdiction of the Court. There can, therefore, be no want of
power in the Court to deal with this part of the obstruction.
Indeed, it is the only Federal Court. that can deal with it.
I have not been able to discover any answer to this view, as
it respects the jurisdiction of the Court, or its duty to exercise
it. It is admitted, that this moiety of the river has been wholly
obstructed so far as th6 free navigation of the same is concerned
-a total obstruction by the erection of the bridge.
I am aware, it is said, or. intimated, that the main navigable
channel of the river is on the Illinois side; and hence the removal
of the obstruction on the Iowa side, could not remedy the wrong
complained of. But is this an answer? It may be admitted,
that the channel on the Illinois side affords the best navigable
channel at all seasons of the year, for the passage of boats. But
the Iowa side or moiety is also navigable; and, perhaps, for twothirds of the season quite equal to that on the other side, if not
in a superior degree, for the navigation of many of the boats and
water-craft employed on this river. Even in the season of low
water the depth of the water on the Iowa side ranges from zix
to ten feet at or near the bridge, as shown by the surveys of the
Government Engineers.
But I do not place my dissent to the opinion of the Court
wholly, nor even mainly, on the ground above stated, but upon
much higher and broader ground.
The right to a free and unobstructed navigation of this river
on the part of the public, and especially of the citizens of the
United States, depends upon the Constitution and the Laws of
the United States-the public law of the country.
The local laws of the States have no control over it. I speak
now of the free and unobstructed navigation of the river, and
32
VOL. U.

SUPREME COURT.
Hississippiand Missouri Railroad Company vs. Ward.
according to this general or public law, the right of navigation
exists over every part of it. No principle is better settled or
more generally admitted. The reason given is well stated by
Lord Denman, in Williams vs. Wilcox, (8 Ad. & Ell., 314), and
perhaps no river or navigable stream affords a better illustration
of the soundness of the principle, or of the reasons upon which
it is founded, than the river in question. The reasons are, "that
the nature of the highway which a navigable river affords,liable to be affected by natural and uncontrollable causes,
presenting inconveniences in different parts and in different
sides,' according to changes of wind or direction of the vessel,
and attended by the important circumstance, that, upon no one
is any duty imposed by the common law to do that which would
be analogous* to the ordinary repair of a common highway to
remove obstructions, namely, clear away sand banks and preserve any accustomed channe],-all these considerations," he
observes, "make it an almost irresistible conclusion that the
paramount right, if it existed at all, must have been a right in
every part of the space between the banks."
Now, this principle, if acknowledged and applied in this case.
affords not only ground for the exercise of the jurisdiction ot
the Court, but makes it a duty to inquire into the question
of obstruction, and deal with it according as the pleadings and
proofs may require or justify.
I agree that this principle has been modified by the judgment
of this Court in the case of the Wheeling Bridge, in its endeavor
to harmonize this public right of navigation with the subordinate
right of the States to erect bridges over these navigable waters.
The Court there determined that in the erection of a bridge
under State authority, if there still existed a free and unobstructed navigation of the river, the bridge would not be considered a nuisance, but upheld as lawful.
The bridge in question is entitled to the benefit of this modification of the principle. And I agree that if there is a free and
unobstructed navigation of this river on the Illinois side, it
would afford an answer to the admitted obstruction on the side
in Iowa. But this is the only answer that can be given, and it

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

499

Noonan vs. Lee.
is apparent that this answer raises the question whether or not
such a channel was left open, a question which the Court must
hear and determine, and without hearing and determining which
in favor of the defendants, the decree must pass against them.
It seems to me, therefore, without pursuing the case further
that the material question in the case before the Court below
was whether, notwithstanding the erection of the bridge, a free
and unobstructed navigation for the passage of boats existed on
the Illinois side of the river; and hence, necessarily, whether or
not the bridge constituted an obstruction over that channel. If it
did not, then the case fell within the qualification of the prin.
ciple as applied in the Wheeling Bridge case. If it did, then
clearly no defence was shewn to the admitted obstruction of that
part of the river on the Iowa side.
I express no opinion upon the question of fact, the obstruc.
tion, as that question is not reached according to the decision
of a majority of the Court.
I am requested to state that Mr. Justice Wayne and Clifford
concur in this opinion.

NooNAN vs. LEE.

1. Parol evidence, not inconsistent with a written instrument, is
admissible to apply such instrument to its subject.
2. Where a map or plat is referred to in a deed for the purpose of
fixing a boundary, the effect is the same as if it were copied
into the deed.
.3. This is a familiar rule of construction in all those cases wherein
no other description is given in the title-deeds, than the
number of the lot on the Surveyor's plan of a township or
other large tract of land.
4 Where a plat is referred to ina deed simply for the purpose of.
fixing boundary, the fact that such plat was illegally made
does not in uny wise effect the validity of the deed.
5.The Statute of Wisconsin of 1849 permits a grantor out of possession to make a valid conveyance of lands adversely held
by another.

