DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

599

Leffingwell vs. Warren.

LEFFINGwELL v,. WARREN.

1. The Courts of the United States, in absence of legislation upon
the subject by Congress, recognize the Statutes of Limitations
of the several States, and give them the same construction
and effect as that are given by the local tribunals. They are
a rule of decision under the 34th section of the Judiciary Act
of 1798.
2. The construction given to a State Statute by the highest judicial
tribunal of such state, is regarded as a part of the Statute, and
is as binding on the Courts of the United States as the text.
3. If the highest judicial tribunal of a state adopt new views as to
the proper construction of such a statute, and reverse its former
decisions, this Court will follow the latest settled adjudications.
4. The lapse of the time given by Statute for bringing an ejectment,
not only bars the remedy, but extinguishes the right an(
vests a perfect title in the adverse holder.
5. The Statute of Wisconsin limiting the time within which suits
for the recovery of lands sold for taxes must be brought, be'
gins to run from the time of the recording of the tax deed,
whether possession has or has not been taken by the purchaser.
6. It is immaterial whether the sale and the deed be void or valid;
it is sufficient that a sale has been made and the deed recorded.
to bring the Statute into activity, and after the lapse of the
period limited, to entitle the purchaser, and those claiming
under him, to its protection.
Error to the District Court of the United States for the District of Wisennsin.
Hr. Lynd, of Wisconsin, for Plaintiff in Error.
Mr. Doolittle, of Wisconsin, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE. This cause is brought here by za
writ of error to the District Court of the United States for the
District of Wisconsin.

SUPREME COURT.
Leffingwell vs. Warren.
In the Court below, Warren, the defendant in error, instituted
an action of ejectment to recover the premises in controversy.
Judgment was rendered in his favor. The defendant there is
the plaintiff in error here.
The parties made an agreement as to the facts which is set
forth in the bill of exceptions. It was thereby admitted upon
,he trial"That the plaintiff has a perfect chain of title to the land in
question from the United States to himself; and that the defendant was in possession thereof at the time of the commencement
of this suit; and that the land in suit is of the value of more
than $2,000 "That the County of Rock, on the 6th day of February, A. D.
1852, made and delivered to John M. Keep a paper purporting
to be a tax deed of said premises, of which, and the certificate of
acknowledgment, the following is a copy."
(Here follow the copies mentioned, which it is unnecessary to

insert).
"(The plaintiff, however, not waiving any objection to said
tax deed, which may appear on its face, or which may be made
to appear by any other facts or evidence in the case).
"That said deed was recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds for Rock County, where said land is situated, on February
6th, 1852 (subject to the objection, however, which is reserved
by the plaintiff on the ground, that said deed is not so executed
and acknowledged as to be entitled to be recorded); that immediately thereafter said Keep sold said premises to said defendant,
and that said defendant immediately thereafter entered into
possession of said premises, and has been in possession ever
since.
"That the plaintiff, on the 29th day of February, 1848, that
being the proper time to pay the taxes on said land, including
the tax for the nonpayment of which said tax deed purports to
be given, wrote a lctter and sent it by mail to the County
Treasurer of said Rock County, who was the officer authorized
by law to demand and receive all the taxes on said land, including the delinquent tax in question, stating that he wished to pay_

DECEMBER TERM, 1862..
Leffingwell vs. Warren.
the taxes on a list of lands mentioned, including the land in suit,
asiing for a bill of the same, showing the amount that he might
emit; -that said Treasurer on the same day received said letter
at his office, and answered it, inclosing a bill corresponding
with the receipt hereinafter given, stating that the inclosed was
the bill called for by plaintiff's letter; that thereupon the said
plaintiff remitted- said amountto said Treasurer, who received
the same, and returned to said plaintiff the said receipt herein
after set forth the same day; and that at the date of the receipt
the Treasurer and the plaintiff supposed that all the taxes on
said lands were included in said receipt; but the parties agree
that the particular tax for which the land was sold and deed
given was not-found by said Treasurer, and not included in said
receipt.
"That 'after the date of said payment and receipt no demand
was made of said plaintiff for payment of said delinquent tax,
nor had plaintiff -actual notice that said tax remained unpaid
until more than three years after the recording of the tax deed,
but: that the premises were duly advertised for sale as by law required, and that said deed was recorded as hereinbefore set forth.
That the said delinquent tax and costs amounted at the date of
the sale to $19'0. That on the 11th day of April, 1857, said
ph6ihtiff deposited with. the clerk of the Supervisors of Rock
County the sum of $7.01, being the full amount of sale, interest,
and costs, to redeem said land mentioned in the said tax deed,
and that the deposit still remains there, there being no other
'unpaid tax on said land at that time.
'"-The following is a copy of the receipt given by said Treasurer, mentioned above, viz.:
"T nRiTORY OF WISCONSIN, ROCK COUNTY,

" TREAsuRE's OrIcE,

"February29th, 1848.
"Received of the different owners, per Catlin & Williamson,
agents, $251, in full of the taxes charged for the year 1847, dn
thc following tracts of land in thd County of Rock, W. T., consaisting of the following items of tax, to wit: county, town,
common school, territorial revenue, and

SUPREME COURT.
Lefflngwelt vs. Warren.

DESCRIPTION.

.

4
,,

K of S.W.*
.
E. -k
......
Lot No. 2 .........
N.E
o
.B
Lot No. 1.........

od
V

d

34 111 80
34 111 160
Ill 412 32.56
3 411 40.44
11 412 55

N.ofN. W...... 11 410
W.-.. 1 410
Lot No. 3 ........
151 412
E. 4 of N. W. ..... 14 411

S.W.-ofN.

0C

~

0

E

)

V4

160
54 16542 .... ... $262
320
108 23084 .... .... 522
97 0(y
19 4929 ... .
170
34 3220 29'
1 15
1653% 33 8350 ......
1 66

40
233 1
64.35 193Y
80.
112
I

Total.

0

-

i

86
39
691

8843 70
9658 677.
6843 62 ..
1

287
8 70
2 42

1 '$2560

"Wm. A. LAWRENCE, Treasurer.
"The first two tracts being the land in question."
It appears further by the bill of exceptions that instructions
to the jury were asked by the plaintiff in error, which were
refused by the Court, to which refusal he excepted; and that
instructions were given to which he also excepted.
In the view which we have taken of the case, it is necessary
to advert to those instructions only which relate to the Statute
of Limitations.
They are as follows:
"The counsel for the said defendant did request the said judge
to charge the jury as follows:
"1. That it being admitted by the parties that the defendant
'entered into possession of the land in question under a tax deed,
and has held said possession under said deed more than three
years before the commencement of this action, and it being also
admitted that said tax for which said land was sold was never
paid, they will find for the defendant.
"And the said judge refused to give said instruction, and to
which refusal the said defendant, by his said counsel, did then
and there, and, in the presence of the said jury, duly except.
"And the said judge did also then and there further declare
and deliver his opinion to the said jury, that the deed is void on
its face, as it recites that the several tracts therein described
were sold collectively for a gross sum; and the deed being void

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Lefflngwell vs. Warren.
neither it, nor the subsequent possession by the defendant ijnder
it for three years after the recording thereof, is a bar to the
plaintiff's recovery.
"to which said last-mentioned opinion and charge of the said
judge the said counsel for the said defendant did then and there,
and in the presence of the said jury, on behalf of the said
defendant, duly exeept"'
The Statute of Limitations relied *uponby the plaintiff in error
provides that-L"Any suit or proceedings for the recovery of lands sold for
taxes, except in cases where the taxes have been paid or the lands
redeemed'as provided by lawi, shall be commenced within three
years from the time of recording the tax deed of sale, and not
thereafter." Revised Statutes of Wisconsin of 1849, chap. 15
see. 123, p. 164.
The Courts of the United States, in the absence of legislation
upon the subject by Congress, recognize the Statues of Limitations of tho several States, and give them the same construction
and effect which are given by the local tribunals. They are a
rule of decision under the 34th section of the Judicial Act of
1789.
The construction given to a statute of a State by the highest
judicial tribunal of such State, is regarded as a part of the
statute, and is as binding upon the Courts of the United States
as the text. Shelby vs. Guy, (11 Wheat., 351); McGluny vs.
Silliman, (3 Pet., 270); -Greene vs. Neils Lessee, (6 Pet., 291);
Ross vs. Duval, (13 Pet., 45); Hassingall vs. Downs, (1 How,
767); Nesmith vs. Sheldon, (1 How., 812); Van Rensselaer vs
Kearney, (11 How., 297); Webster vs. Cooper, (14 How., 504).
If the highest judicial tribunal of a State adopt new views as
to the prope construction of such a statute, and reverse its
former decisions, this Court will followv the latest settled adjudications. United States vs. Aforrison, .(4Pet.); Green vs. MoNeil's
Lessee, (6 Pet., 291).
This Statute of Limitations came under.the consideraticn of the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin, in Edgertonvs. Byrd, (6 Wisconsin
Rep., 597). The Court held: "Atax deed informal and defective

SUPREME

COURT.

Leffingwell vs. Warren
in substance is admissible to show color of title in the defendant
to bring him within the statutes of limitation." "Suits for the
recovery of lands sold for taxes, except in cases where the taxes
have been paid, or the lands redeemed according to law, must
be commenced within three years from the time of recording the
tax deed of sale, or no recovery can be had."
"Possession accompanied with a claim of title under a tax
deed void for informality is adverse possession."
In Sprecker vs. Tiakeley et al., (11 Wis. R., 432), the subject
came again under consideration. The Court re-affirmed the principles of the former decision.
In answer to the objection, that ft should be shown the land
had been regularly sold, and that the officer who executed the
deed had authority to give it, they say:
"But if this is a correct view of the statute we fail to perceive
any object in passing it. For when the public authorities have
proceeded strictly according to law in listing the lands, assessing
the tax, making demand for the same at the proper time ant
place, advertising for non-payment of tax, &c., and have observed
all the requirements of the statutes up to the execution of the
deed, surely the tax deed in that case must convey a good title,
or our revenue laws are illusory, and the power of the Government to raise means by taxation upon the property of its citizens
necessary for its own support and action is entirely impotent
and vain. But we think a party cannot be required to show that
his tax deed has been regularly obtained before he can claim the
protection of this statute, since such a construction renders the
law unnecessary and useless."
In Hill vs. K'ricke, (6 Wis. R., 442), the same Court held
further, that possession by the party claiming under the tax deed
was not necessary to the running of the statute; that under the
laws of Wisconsin, ejectment would lie against him without
actual possession; and that the repeal of the statute after the
bar became complete could not affect a title under it thus
acquired. •
It is not claimed that fraud is an element in the case. The
facts show there was none. The only exceptions made in the

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

605

LeffingweUl vs. Warren.

statute which prevent its application are where the taxes are
paid before the sale, and where the land is redeemed within the)
time prescribed by law after the sale.
This case does not fall within either of these exceptions. We
have no power to add to them. To do so, would be to usurp
the function of another and-a distinct governmental department.
It would be legislation, and not adjudication. Cocke & Jack vs.
MfGinnis, (1 Martin & Yerger, 264 (Mr. Justice Catron's
opinion); Troup vs. Smith, (20 J. R., 33); Leonard vs. Pitney, (5
Wend., 30); Howell vs. Hair, (15 Alabama, 194); Beckford vs
Wade, (17 Vesey, jr., 87).
The lapse of the time limited by such statutes not only bars the
remedy, but it extinguishes the right, and vests a perfect title in
the adverse holder. "It tolls the entry of the person having the
right, and consequently, though the very right be in the defendant, yet he cannot justify his ejecting the plaintiff." Buller's
N. P., 103; Stocker vs. Berney, (1 Lord Raymond, 741); Taylor
vs. Hord, (1 Burr. 60); Barwick vs. Thompson, (7 Term. Rep.,
492); Beckford vs. Wade, (17 Vesey jr., 87;) Moore vs. Luce, (29
Penn. R., 260); Thompson vs. Greene, 4 Ohio S. R., 223); Newcombe vs. Leavitt, (22 Al. Rep., 631); Wenn vs. Lee, (5 Georgia
Rep., 217; Chiles vs. Jones, et al., (4 Dana, 483).
The instruction refused, and that givcn, refer to the fact of
possession by the defendant below. The statute is silent upon
that subject. It begins to run from the time of the recording of
the deed, whether possession has or has not been taken. Hill vs.
Kricke, (6 Wis. Rep., 447).
It was admitted by the stipulation of the parties, that the deed
in this case was recorded on the 6th of February, 1845. This
suit -was commenced on the 2d day of October, 1857.
Upon this state of facts the Court below instructed the jury:
"That the deed being void, neither it, nor the subsequent possession under it, for three years after the recording thereof, is a
bar to the plaintiff's recovery."
This was clearly an error.
According to the rulings referred to, of the Supreme Court of
the State, it is immaterial whether the sale and the deed be void

-

SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of Parrishvs. Ferriset a8
or valid. It is sufficient that a sale has been made, and the deed
recorded-to bring the statute into activity-and after the lapse
of the period limited, to entitle the purchaser, and those claiming
under him, to its protection.
Statutes of Limitation are now regarded favorably in al?
Courts of Justice. They are "Satutes of Repose." Usually
they are founded in a wise and salutary policy, and promote the
ends of justice. Tolson vs. K(age, (3 Brod. & Bing., 217); Lewis
vs. Marshall,(5 Pet. 470.
The equities in behalf of the plaintiff below, are strong. We
have all felt their force. Without any fault on his part, he has
been divested of the title to his land. But our duty is to apply
the law-not to make it. If this statute be unwise or unjust
the remedial power lies with the Legislature of the State, and
not with this Court.
The judgment of the Court below must be reversed, and the
cause remanded for further proceedings, in conformity with this
opinion.

LESSEE OF PARRISH vs. FERRIS, ET ALS.

1. A controversy once decided by a competent tribunal, cannot be
re-examined by another court of concurrent jurisdiction, in a
suit between the same parties or their privies.
2. The Statute of Ohio authorizes any person in possession of real
property to institute a suit against any one who claims an
estate or interest therein, adverse to him, for the purpose of
determining such adverse estate or interest.
3. The judgment of a Court, in proceedings under this statute
determines the merits of the plaintiff's title, as well as that of
the defendant; and is conclusive whether adverse to one o,
the other:

Error to the Circuit -Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.

