DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

499

Noonan vs. Lee.
is apparent that this answer raises the question whether or not
such a channel was left open, a question which the Court must
hear and determine, and without hearing and determining which
in favor of the defendants, the decree must pass against them.
It seems to me, therefore, without pursuing the case further
that the material question in the case before the Court below
was whether, notwithstanding the erection of the bridge, a free
and unobstructed navigation for the passage of boats existed on
the Illinois side of the river; and hence, necessarily, whether or
not the bridge constituted an obstruction over that channel. If it
did not, then the case fell within the qualification of the prin.
ciple as applied in the Wheeling Bridge case. If it did, then
clearly no defence was shewn to the admitted obstruction of that
part of the river on the Iowa side.
I express no opinion upon the question of fact, the obstruc.
tion, as that question is not reached according to the decision
of a majority of the Court.
I am requested to state that Mr. Justice Wayne and Clifford
concur in this opinion.

NooNAN vs. LEE.

1. Parol evidence, not inconsistent with a written instrument, is
admissible to apply such instrument to its subject.
2. Where a map or plat is referred to in a deed for the purpose of
fixing a boundary, the effect is the same as if it were copied
into the deed.
.3. This is a familiar rule of construction in all those cases wherein
no other description is given in the title-deeds, than the
number of the lot on the Surveyor's plan of a township or
other large tract of land.
4 Where a plat is referred to ina deed simply for the purpose of.
fixing boundary, the fact that such plat was illegally made
does not in uny wise effect the validity of the deed.
5.The Statute of Wisconsin of 1849 permits a grantor out of possession to make a valid conveyance of lands adversely held
by another.

SUPREME COURT.
.Noonan vs. Lee.
6. In all ca'ses where there is adverse possession, by virtue of a
paramount title, of lands thus conveyed, such possession is
regarded as eviction, and involves a breach of the covenant
of warranty.
7. Where the paramount title is in the warrantor and the adverse
possession is tortious, it is no eviction either actual or constructive, and no action will lie upon the covenant.
8. A purchaser in the undisturbed possession of the land will not
be relieved against the payment of the purchase-money on
the mere ground of defect of title, there being no fraud or
misrepresentation.
9. In such a case he must seek his remedy at law on the covenants in the deed.
10. If there is no fraud and no covenants to secure the title, he is
without remedy, as the vendor selling in good faith is not
responsible for the goodness of his title, beyond the extent
of his covenants in the deed.
11. Relief will not be afforded upon the ground of fraud, unless it
be made a distinct allegation in the bill, so that it may be
put in issue by the pleadings.
12. Where a party designing to i)reclose a mortgage, notified the
morgagor before filing the bill, that he elected to consider
the entire amount of the mortgage debt as due, he was eqtitled to a decree for the full amount although, according to
the terms of the bond, one of the installments was not due
when the bill was filed.
13. The equity jurisdiction of the Courts of the United States is
derived from the Constitution and laws of the United States
and their power and rules of decision are the same in all
the States.
14. Rules of decision established by the Supreme Court for its own
government and that of subordinate Courts are unaffected
by State legislation.
15. Without the authority of a rule of the Supreme Court, a District Court of the United States has no authority to direct
a mortgagor to pay the balance of debt, which may remain
unsatisfiied after the sale of the mortgaged premises

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Noonan vs. Lee.
Appeal from the District Court of the United States for the
District of Wisconsin.
M1r. Ghlet, of District of Columbia, for Appellant.
M . Brown, of Wisconsin, for Respondent.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE. A careful examination of the facts
disclosed in the record, is necessary to enable us to arrive at
a proper solution of the questions presented for our determination.
Lee sold, on the 1st day of October, 1855, he and his wife, by
.deed duly executed, conveyed to Noonan certain real estate
therein described, as follows:
"One equal undivided half part or share of that certain tract
of land bounded and described as follows, viz.: Beginning in
tho centre of the Milwaukie river, on the centre of the road
ce!)resented on the recorded plat of the village of Mechanicsville
as running east and west between blocks five (5) and six (6) in
said village of Mechanicsville; running thence easterly in the
centre of said street to the centre of a street running north and
south between blocks three (3) and (5) in Mechanicsville aforesaid; thence southerly in the centre of the last mentioned street
to the centre of a street running east and west between blocks
three (3) and four (4) in said village of Mechanicsville; thence
easterly in the centre of said last mentioned street to a point that
would be intersected by a north and south line through the
middle of block three (3) in Mechanicsville aforesaid; thence
southerly on the line bounding the west ends of lots one (1), two
(2), three (3), and four (4) in block four (4) in Mechanicsville
aforesaid, to south line of said lot four (4) in block four (4) aforesaid; thence easterly on the south line of lot four (4) in block,
four (4) to the west line of a lot of land containing about onehalf (j) an acre, represented on said plat of Mechanicsville as
being nearly in a square form in the southeast corner of the
town plat of Mechanicsville aforesaid; thence southerly on the
weA line of said last-described tract of land to the south, line of

SUPREME COURT.
Noonan vs. Lee.
the town plat of Mechanicsville; thence easterly on said last
mentioned line to the east line of fractional lot two (2) in section
four (4),in township seven (7), north of range twenty-two (22)
east; thence south to the south line of said fractional lot two
(2); thence westerly on the south line of said fractional lot two
(2) to the centre of the Milwaukie river; thence norther1ffIn the
centre of the Milwaukie river as it winds and turns to the place
of beginning. Also the privilege of damming and flowing the
Milwaukie river on said fractional lot two (2), as high as said
river would be raised by maintaining a dam at least nine feet
high, where a certain dam was located across said river, near the
south line of fractional lot two (2), in the year 1837, as described
in deed from Daniel Bigelow and Amasa Bigelow to Herman V.
Prentice, recorded in Volume 'C' of deeds, on page 329, as to
flow-water."
The deed contains a covenant of general warranty.
Upon the same day Noonan executed to Lee a mortgage upon
the same premises, conditioned to secure the payment of $4,000,
in four equal annual instalments, with interest at the rate of 7
per cent. per annum, payable annually, according to the condition of a bond of the same date executed by Noonan to Lee;
and also to secure the payment, by Noonan, of all taxes upon
the mortgaged premises. It was further provided, that upon
any default by Noonan in respect of the due payment of prin.
cipal, interest, or taxes, the entire principal of the mortgage debt
should, at the option of Lee, thereupon be deemed to have
become due, and should, with the interest thereon, be collectable.
At the time of the execution of -the bond, Lee made and
signed the following endorsement upon it:
"I agree, if my title fails to the property, for the consideration
of which this bond is given, except as against the United States,
for the portion of the river beyond the meandered line, that I
will not enforce this bond; and if any ineumbrance shall be
found, that the amount of the same shall be deducted from the
moneys to fall due on this bond."
On the 4th of March, 1859, Lee filed his bill setting forth that
Noonan had paid nothing either of principal or interest of the

DECEMBER TERM 1862.
Zoonan vs. Lee.
mortgage debt; that he had notified Noonan that he claimed the
entire debt to be due, and praying for a sale of the mortgaged
premises, the payment of the mortgage debt, and for general
relief.
The decree finds the amount due Lee to be $5,267.20; directs
the sale cf the mortgage premises, the payment of the mortgage
debt, and the bringing of the surplus moneys, if there were any,
into Court, and then provides that if the moneys arising from
the sale were insufficient to pay the debt, interest and costs, that
the Marshal in his report of the sale should specify the amount
of the deficiency, that Noonan should pay it with interest, "and
that the complainant may have execution therefor."
From this decree Noonan appealed to this Court
Several objections aie made here to the decree-:
I. It is said the deed is void because it refers for a part of the
boundaries to the recorded plat of the town of Mechanicsville.
The law of Wisconsin (revision of 1849) requires that a town
plat shall give "the names, width, course , boundary, and extent," of all streets and alleys; that it shall be certified by the
surveyor, acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the
acknowledgment of deeds, and that it shall then, with the certificate of acknowledgment, be recorded.
The 9th section of the Act provides that if any person "shall
dispose of, offer for sale or lease" any lot or part of a lot before
these requirements are complied with, he "shall forfeit and pay
the sum of $25 for each and every lot or part of a lot sold or
disposed of, leased or offered for sale."
This plat was acknowledged on the 15th of March, 1836, anc
recorded on the 15th of September, 1855. It does not give the
names, courses, boundary or length of the streets, and it is not
certified by the Surveyor. The certificate of acknowledgment
represents the plat as laid out on the "south-east part of the S.
E. quarter of section No. 4 in T. No. 7, in R. No. 22'E., on the
east side of the Milwaukie river." It was in fact laid out on
fractional lot 2, of the section named. The southeast quarter is
upon the other side of the section and. does not approach the
river. Lot 2 bounds upon the river. A large lot delineated on

SUPREME COURT.
Noonan vs. Lee.
the plat bounding upon the river is marked "reserved fohydraulic purposes." An island opposite to it is laid down upon
the plat. Fractional lot 2, which is twice referred to in the
boundaries as given in the deed, bounds upon the river. Parol
evidence, not inconsistent with a-written instrument, is admissible to apply such instrument to its subject. The designation
of the "southeast quarter" in the certificate of acknowledgment
was a clerical mistake. The maxim "falso (lemons/ratho non
nwcet" applies. The proof in the case shows clearly where the
plat was in fact located. As regards the statute, the plat was
fatally defective and afforded no warrant to the recording officer
for putting it on record. Nevertheless, its being there was a
fact, and whether there or elsewhere, the reference to it in a
deed for the purpose of fixing a boundary, is sufficient. "That
is certain which can be rendered certain." Where a map or
plat is thus referred to, the effect is the same as if it were copied
into the deed. "This is a familiar rule of construction, in all
those cases wherein no other description is given in the title
deeds, than the number of the lot on the Surveyor's plan of a
township or other large tract of land." Davis vs. Rainesford,
(17Mass., 211); Afcrver's Lessee vs. Walker el al., (4 Wheat, 445).
II. It is claimed that the deed is void because it was executed
to convey lots designated upon a town plat not made in conformity to law, and which it was therefore penal to sell.
No lots are mentioned. The plat is referred to only for the
purpose of boundary. The land with the boundaries is conveyed
without reference to any subdivision. The fact that it had been
illegally laid out and platted into lots and streets does not in any
wise affect the deed.
III. It is objected that the deed from Prentiss to Church and
Clark of August 4, 1847, in Lee's chain of title, and the deed
from Church and Clark to Lee of July 7, 1848, were void,
because they were made by grantors out of possession, when the
promises were held adversely by other parties, under deeds ap.
pareritly valid.
At the dates of those deeds the Coltons were in possession
under a deed of the 22d of June, 1847, from James I. Rogers.

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

505

_foonan vs. Lee.

The only part of the description in that deed referring to the
premises in controversy is as follows:
"Twenty-two acres of land more or less undivided, in fractional lot number two of section four in township seven, range
twenty-two, together w:th one-half of the water power belonging
to said fractional lot two, and also all the right, title and interest
of the said parties of the first part in and to said lot two.'
A title to twenty-two acres undivided would have given the
grantee no right to take exclusive possession of the mortgage
premises. So far as the record discloses the facts, it appears
that Rogers claimed entirely under sales for taxes. It will
presently appear .that they gave him no title, real or apparent
which he could convey to another.
IV. The tax deeds.'
It is not denied that at the time Lee conveyed to Noonan, his
chain of title was perfect, unless it was broken by one or more
of the facts claimed by Noonan to have produced that effect. In
this connection the tax deeds found in the record are relied
upon. They consist of Exhibits 0,D, E, F, G, H, I, J, and the
deed to Orton of the 25th of AhIl, 1852.
(1). The deed last named does not appear to have been
recorded. Possession under it can therefore have no effect upon
the rights of Lee. The description in the deed does not cover the
premises in controversy. That part of the description relied
upon is in these words:
"Part of the S. E. quarter section fourth, T. 7, R. 22, bounded
north by Demster, east by Jones and Bare, west by river, and
south by Allerding, (nineten acres)."
The land in controversy is not in the southeast quarterof the
section, and there is nothing in the case which shows what river
is referred to, or where the lands of Demster and the other parties named are situated.
(2). Exhibit F, I, and J, are duplieates respectively of Exhibits
H, C, and E,.and may be laid out of view.
(3). Exhibits C, D, ind G, embrace none of the land in controversy. This leaves only Exhibits E and II to be examined.'
(1). Exhibit "B."

SUPREME COURT.
Noonan vs. Lee.
This is a deed to James H. Rogers. It bears date on the 17th
of February, 1846. It recites a sale to Rogers on the 14th day
of December, 1840, for the taxes of that year. The description
embraces lots one and six in block five of the plat. This block
is within the limits of the mortgaged premises. At the time of
the sale, and for several years previous, Rogers had been in possession of the mortgaged premises under the deed of the 27th
of July, 1837, from Prentiss, to whom he had given back a
mortgage of the same date to secure the purchase-money. Prentiss had proceeded to foreclose the mortgage, and the premises
were sold under a decree rendered on the 26th of June, 1840.
Prentiss became the purchaser, and on the 5th of October, 1840,
received the master's deed for the premises.
Rogers being in possession, the Statutes of Wisconsin required
him to pay the taxes, and gave him an action to recover the
money back, if he were entitled to it, from the party to whose
benefit the payment enured. (Revised Statutes of 1839, sec. 14,
p. 47.)
His relation to the property, and to his vendor and mortgagee
also, rendered it his duty to make such payment. Neither he nor
any one claiming under him can avail himself of a title thus
acquired, as against Prentiss and those claiming under him.
Douglass vs. Dangerfield,(10 0. Rep., 152); Creps vs. Baird,(3
0. S. R., 377).
(5). Exhibit "H."
This deed was also to James H. Rogers, and bears date on the
23d of December, 1845. It recites that the sale was made to
Rogers on the 9th of December, 1839, for the taxes of that year.
It embraces lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, in block 5, as delineated
on the plat. During all of the year 1839, Rogers was in posses
sion as the vendee of Prentiss, and the same remarks apply as
to Exhibit "E."
Underlying these deeds is another objection.
We have already referred to the non-conformity of the town
plat to the requirements oik the statute, and the fact that it
was penal to sell or lease any lot, as such, which it represented
All the witnesses, including Orton, who. claimed to be in posses

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

507

Noonan vs. Lee.

sion of the whole of fractional lot 2, speak of it as a "pretended
plat." Orton says:
"I do 'not know-of such a village as Mechanicesville in,fact,
though I have heard of it. I do not know where the plat of
Mechanicsville is located, though I know where they claim itis
located. I know the land described in the mortgage in the bill
of complaint from its boundaries."
It does not appear in the case that any street was ever improved, that any lot was ever enclosed, or that any house was
ever built with reference to the boundaries of any street or lot.
It comes out incidentally in the evidence touching possession,
that there is but one house on the plat, and that it is in a ruinous condition and unoccupied. Nothing is proved in pais,
recognizing the existence of the plat.
Under these circumstances it may well be doubted whether
the sales of lots for taxes were not illegal and void. Wheeler
vs. Ruasel, (17 Mass., 258); Strong vs. Darlinget al., (9 0. Rep,
201).
We have not found it necessary to decide that question, and
we express no opinion upon the subject.
As the facts are disclosed in the record, We find no defect in
the title of Lee. We find that Noonan's title has not "failed,"
and no encumbrance upon the property is shown. There has
been, therefore, no breach of the agreement endorsed upon the
bond; nor has there been any breach of the covenant of general
warranty in Lee's deed to Noonan. The deed contains no other
covenant. The Statute of Wisconsin of 1849 permits a grantor
out of possession to make a valid conveyance of lands adversely
held by another. In all cases where there is adverse -possession,
by virtue of a paramount title, of lands thus conveyed, such
possession is regarded as eviction, and involves a breach of the
covenant of warranty. Where, as in this case, the paramount
title is in the warrantor and the adverse possession tortious, it is
no eviction either actual or constructive, and no action will lie
andoAh vs. MHee ,(1 Martin &Yerger, 58);
upon the covenant.
Aiore vs. Vail, (17 Ill., 185); IRawle on Covenants of Title, 224)

SUPREME COURT.
Noonan Vs. Lee.
There is another view of this case which must not be passed
over in silence.
It is not claimed by Noonan in his answer that there was any
fraud or misrepresentation on the part of Lee, or that any fact
exists in regard to the title which was unknown to him when he
bought the property. It appears by the testimony of Orton.
that there was a controversy between him and Noonan about
water power, and that it has been adjusted. Orton says: "He"
(Noonan) "has no interest with me in this land of record. I
don't know that he has any." "I don't know that I have any
interest in the result of this suit. I dont know that I will be
benefitted in any way by Noonan's success in this suit." This is
guarded and peculiar language. It is impossible to read the
testimony of Orton and resist the conclusion that Noonan bought
the property for a,purpose, and that having held the title for
several years witlout paying anything, and accomplished that
purpose, he is now seeking, upon the pretence of defects of title,
finally to avoid the payment of the purchase money, and throw
back the property upon the hands of his vendor. This ungracious work a Court of Equity will not permit him to do.
If Noonan had gone into possession, and continued in possession under his deed from Lee, this elaborate examination of the
state of the title would not have been necessary. With reference
to that class of cases, this Court, in Patton vs. Taylor, (7How.,
159), after referring to numerous authorities, thus laid down the
law:
"These cases will show that a purchaser in the undisturbed
possession of the land will not be relieved against the payment
of' the purchase money, on the mere ground of defect of title
there being no fraud or misrepresentation, and that in such a
case he must seek his remedy at law on the covenants in his
deed. That if there is no fraud and no covenants to secure the
title, he is without remedy, as the vendor selling in good faith is
nct responsible for the goodness of his title beyond the extent
of his covenants in the deed. And that further relief will not
be afforded upon the ground of fraud, unless it be made a dis

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

509

Noonan vs. Lee.

tinct allegation in the bill, so that it may be put in issue by the
pleadings."
This doctrine is fully sustained by the best considered authorides. Corningvs. Smith, (2 Seld., 84); Platvs. Gilchrist,(3Sandf.
S. C.Rep., 118); Butler vs. Hfill, (6 Ohio S. R., 217); Beebe vs
Swartout, (8 Gilman, 162).
The proofs in this case show, that before filing his bill, Lee
notified Noonan, that he elected to consider the entire amount
of the mortgage debt as due. This entitled him to a decree for
the full amount, although according to the terms of the bond,
one of the instalments was not due when the bill was filed.
Noyes vs. Clark, (7 Paige, 180).

It remains to consider that part of the decree which directs
Noonan to pay the balance which may remain unsatisfied after
exhausting the proceeds of the mortgaged premises.
The equity jurisdiction of the Courts of the United States is
derived from the Constitution and Laws of the United States.
Their powers and rules of decision are the same in all the
States. Their practice is regulated by themselves, and by rules
established by the Supreme Court. This Court is invested by
law with authority to make such rules. In all these respects
they are unaffected by State legislation. Neves vs. Scott, (13 How.,
270); Boyle vs. Zachary Turner, (6 Pet., 658); Robinson vs.
Campbell, (3 Wheat., 323).

A majority of my brethren are of the opinion, and I am
directed by them so to announce, that in the absence of a rule
of this Court authorizing it to be done, it was not competent for
the Court below to make such an order.
That part of the decree is reversed. The residue is affirmed.
The cause will be remanded to the Court below with instructions
to proceed accordingly.

