SUPREME COURT.
United Slates vs. Grimes.
between the estates or titles of the respective- parties to the lands
in controversy. Again, suppose the determination be,. as it was
in this case, in favor of the adverse estate, is the adjudication
of no effect? Is it binding only when against this estate? We
suppose not.
We have said we have been aided upon this point by the
practical construction given to the statute in the-proceedings of
the Court below. The pleadings put in issue the legal title to
the premises in dispute between the parties-each set up a claim
to the title and relied solely upon it. The Court of Common
Pleas passed upon this title, and upon nothing else, as did the
Supreme Court on the appeal. It seems quite clear that both
the counsel and the Courts in thee proceedings understood the
jurisdiction conferred upon them, as we have endeavored to
explain it.
The Court of Common Pleas, which decided the question in
favor of the plaintiff, not only adjudged that he had the legal
title but that the defendants had not. The Sipreme Court, on
the. appeal, having reversed this judgment, directed that the
proceedings be remitted to the Court below, and there be dismissed.
It was a dismissal of the plaintiff's suit upon the merits, and,
of course, as conclusive upon the rights of the parties as any
other judgment that might have been rendered in the case.
Judgment of the Court-affirmed: -

THE UNITED STATES vs. GRIMES.
I The assignee of a Mexican title was not prohibited from presenting his case to the Land Commissioners in his own name;
and where he was assignee of the whole claim, that was his
proper method of proceeding.
2. But where the land claimed was portioned out among many
vendees, the proper party to the proceeding was the original
grantee, who could produce the documents of title, and who
best knew how to establish it.

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Unit

St4es vs. Grimes.

8. Though the assignee of a portion of a claim is not absolutely
estopped by a decree of this Court adverse to the title under
which he holds, he cannot expect to shake that decree without
producing new evidence which proves it to be erroneous.
4. The Government cannot be required to give two patents for the
same land, one to the original claimant and the other to his
vendee.
5. Where the original Mexican grantee filed his petition for a confirmation of the title, and several of his assignees petitioned
also for the confirmation of the parts conveyed to them, the
Commissioners should have consolidated all the cases.
6. It was their duty to establish the boundary as well as validity
of the Mexican grant as between the original grantee and the
Government, but not to arbitrate the disputes of the several
assignees.

Appeal from the District Court of the United States for tme
Northern District of California.
On the first of March, 1853, Hiram Grimes filed his petition
in the California. Land Commission, on his own behalf, and as
executor of Eliab Grimes, deceased, praying confirmation of a
title to certain lands, derived from Mexico through and under
John A. Sutter. On the 15th of January, 1856, the Land Commissioners rejected the claim, whereupon Grimes appealed to
the District Court. On the 6th of March, 1857, that Court made
its decree, reversing the decision of the Land Commission and
confirming the title. From this decree the United States
appealed. The facts necessary to an understauding-of the case
are stated in the opinion of th& Court.
Mr. Wills, of Washington City, for Appellants.
No counsel appeared for Appellee.
Mr. Justice GRIER. The petitioner is assignee of John A.
Sutter "of a part of the place called New Helvetia." Under this
name Satter claimed title to two several grants from the Mexican Government; one for eleven leagues, granted fo him by

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. Grimes.
Juan B. Alvarado on 18th of June, 1841. the other for twenty.
two leagues, called his "Sobrante grant," purporting to be issued
by Micheltorena at Santa Barbara on the 5th of February. 1845.
Many persons had purchased portions of this great tract. A
separate application from each of those vendees to the Commissioners for a several confirmation of the portion assigned to him,
wouid have caused great expense, trouble and delay. Accordingiy, Sutter, very properly, filed his petition for the confirmation
of these two grants, for the benefit of himself and his several
assignees. His title has been fully considered and decided by
this Court. (See 21 Howard, 178.) The first grant of eleven
leagues was adjudged valid, the other was rejected. The patent
to Sutter for the eleven leagues will, of course. enure -to the
benefit of all his vendees. Those who claim under the Sobrante
title will take nothing. Whether the portions sold will be found
within either or neither of these grants to Sutter, must depend
upon surveys made, or to be made, since the confirmation of his
grant by this Court. It is true, the assignee of a Mexican title
nay present his case before the Commissioners; and where he is
assignee of the whole claim-there may be no impropriety in it.
But, if the land claimed has been divided out among a thousand
vendees, as in this case, the proper party to the proceeding i,
the original graitee, who can produce the documents of title
and who best knows how to establish it. As in the case of
Neleigh, (1 Black., 298), who claimed a part of the grant to
Castro, which had been rejected by this Court, we may say, that
though the assignee is not absolutely estopped by a decree of
the Court to which he was not a party, yet, as he has furnished
no new evidence to show that decree erroneous, he cannot expect
the Court to change it. If any part of the land for which he has
petitioned is within the eleven leagues, the patent which has or
will be given to Sutter will confirm his title, and further proceedings in this suit would be wholly superfluous. The Government cannot be required to give two patents for the same land,
one to the vendor and another to the vendee. Where there
are divers vendees under one original title, and the Mexican
grantee has filed his petition before the Commissioners for a

SUPREME COURT.
Bothwell vs. Dewees.
confirmation of his title, and there are others, his assignees who
have petitioned also, the Commissioners should have consolidated
all the cases. The law' does not require them to locate the
boundaries of the several grantees or settle any disputes between
them, or to give a thousand different patents to every several
elaimant of a town lot. It is their duty to establish the boundary
is well as validity of the Mexican grant as between him and the
Government, and not to arbitrate the disputes of the several
assignees.
The Court below confirmed the whole claim of the petitioner,
because it was within the thirty-three leagues which they had
already confirmed to Sutter. But, as that judgment was reversed
as to twenty-two leagues, the judgment in this case must hive
the same course. If any portion of his claim be found within
the eleven leagues, he needs no further title; if it does not, he
can have none.
The judgment and decree of the Court below is reversed.

ROTHWELL

vs.

DEWEES.

i. Where the surviving partner of an insolvent firm assigned certain lots of ground belonging to the firm for the benefit of its
creditors, the heirs of the deceased partner cannot be made
parties to a suit involving the title to the lots, on the ground
of any relation of trust or confidence subsisting between them
and the assignee.
2. Where a party purchases property under the direction of, or on
behalf of another, the purchase must be held to be in trust for
the benefit of the principal, on repayment of the money advanced by the agent.
.8 Where two devisees or tenants in common hold under an imperfect title, and one of them buys in the outstanding title, such
purchase will enure to their common benefit upon contribution
made to repay the purchase-money.
4 This rule is based upon a community of interest in a common
title, creating such a relation of trust and confidence betweeD

