SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of Parrishvs. Ferriset a8
or valid. It is sufficient that a sale has been made, and the deed
recorded-to bring the statute into activity-and after the lapse
of the period limited, to entitle the purchaser, and those claiming
under him, to its protection.
Statutes of Limitation are now regarded favorably in al?
Courts of Justice. They are "Satutes of Repose." Usually
they are founded in a wise and salutary policy, and promote the
ends of justice. Tolson vs. K(age, (3 Brod. & Bing., 217); Lewis
vs. Marshall,(5 Pet. 470.
The equities in behalf of the plaintiff below, are strong. We
have all felt their force. Without any fault on his part, he has
been divested of the title to his land. But our duty is to apply
the law-not to make it. If this statute be unwise or unjust
the remedial power lies with the Legislature of the State, and
not with this Court.
The judgment of the Court below must be reversed, and the
cause remanded for further proceedings, in conformity with this
opinion.

LESSEE OF PARRISH vs. FERRIS, ET ALS.

1. A controversy once decided by a competent tribunal, cannot be
re-examined by another court of concurrent jurisdiction, in a
suit between the same parties or their privies.
2. The Statute of Ohio authorizes any person in possession of real
property to institute a suit against any one who claims an
estate or interest therein, adverse to him, for the purpose of
determining such adverse estate or interest.
3. The judgment of a Court, in proceedings under this statute
determines the merits of the plaintiff's title, as well as that of
the defendant; and is conclusive whether adverse to one o,
the other:

Error to the Circuit -Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

607

Lessee of Parrishvs. Ferriset als.
M'fr. Pugh and Mr. Worthington, of Ohio, for Plaintiff in
Error.
Mr.Taft and Hr.James, of Ohio, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON. This is a writ of error to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Ohio.
The action was ejectment to recover possession of certain
parcels of land situate in the county of Hamilton.
On the trial the lessor of the plaintiff claimed title to the premises under the will of Andrew Ferris and Elizabeth A. Parrish,
his wife, who was a daughter and only child of Andrew Ferris.
The defendants by way of defence, claimed title also under
the same will; and'in addition, set up in bar of a recovery
a previous suit between the same parties in the Courts of the
State of Ohio, involving the same title, and in which a judgment
or decree was rendered in their favor.
By a Statute of Ohio, it is provided that "an action may be
brought by any person in possession, by himself or tenant, of
real property, against any person 'who claims an estate or
interest therein adverse to him, for the purose of determining
such adverse estate or interest."
In 1853, Francis A. Parrish, under whom the present lessor
claims title, being in possession of the premises, instituted pro
ceedings under this statute against the present defendants in the
Court of Common Pleas of the County of Hamilton; and in his
bill or complaint set forth that he was in possession, holding the
same as absolute owner in fee simple, and with the legal title
thereto of the premises in question, describing them, and charging that the defendants claimed to have some estate or interest
inthe same and prayed that the defendants might be compelled
to show what estate or interest in the lands they or any of them
might have; that the Court might determine and declare that
the defendants, nor any of them, had any valid interest or estate
therein; and would order that the title of the p~aintiff and his
possession be established and quieted.
To this bill of complaint the defendants answered, and admi

SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of Parrishvs. Ferriset als.

the possession of the plaintifT but deny that he held the same
as absolute owner in'fee simple, and with the legal title thereto;
and then set up title in themselves under the will of Andrew
Ferris.
This is the substance of the issue made between the 1parties
It is very much amplified by the form of the pleadings adopted,
which set out the evidence of the facts, instead of the facts
themselves. The Court, however, look to the substance of the
issue, and by that it appears that each party claimed title
derived from the'will of Andrew Ferris-the plaintiff claiming
by devise through his wife, the only child of the testator; the
defendants as his brothers and sisters, or their heirs. The title,
whether in the one or the other,.turned upon a construction of
the will of Andrew Ferris, the common source of title.
The Court, after consideration, held that the plaintiff took the
legal title in the premises, and that the defendants had no title
or interest in the same, and gave judgment accordingly; whereupon the defendants appealed to the District Court, which, on
account of the case involving difficult and important questions
of law, sent it to the Supreme Court for determination.
That Court, after holding that no estate passed to the plaintiff
under the will of Andrew Ferris and the devise of his wife, and
that it passed to the defendants, the brothers and sisters, reversed
the decision of the Court of Common Pleas and decreed a dismissal of the bill or complaint and remanded the cause to the
District Court to have this decree carried into effect.
It will be seen from the above statement of the issue that the
precise question in the former suit between these parties, or
those under whom they claim, was involved and decided that is
presented in the present one; and, further, that the decision of
the Court could not have been rendered in favor of the defendants in that suit without determining it. In the former suit
the question turned upon the construction of the will of Andrew
Ferris, which is the question again sought to be raised in the
present one and clearly upon well settled principles this adjudi*ion by a Court of concurrent jurisdiction must be regarded as

DECEMBER TERM,. 1862.

609

Lessee of Parrishvs. Ferris et als.
final and conclusive between the same parties, unless some
special ground is shown to take the case out of the rule.
It has been insisted by the counsel for the plaintifi in error,
that this Court is not bound by the decisions of the State Courts
upon the construction of wills especially, unless that construction has, by the repeated decision of the Courts, .become a fixed
rule of property in the State; and several authorities have been
referred to in support of the position. Without expressing any
opinion on this question, it is a sufficient answer to say, even
admitting the position contended for, it could not help the
plaintiff, as it has no application to the present case. This Court
acknowledges the rule, and has uniformly applied it, of the conclusiveness of a judgment of a Court of concurrent jurisdiction
between the same parties or their privies upon the same ques.
tion.
It has also been contended that the power conferred upon the
Courts by the Statute of Ohio, under which the proceedings in
the former suit took place, did not enable the Court to pass a
definitive judgment between the parties upon the legal title.
We have not been furnished with any construction of this
statute by the Supreme Court of Ohio as to the extent and cffe,'t
of this jurisdiction. We can only regret this, and give to the
act such an interpretation as seems to us best warranted by its
terms, aided by the practical construction derived from the present litigation in the State Courts.
The statute authorizes any person in possession of real property to institute a suit against any one who claims an estate or
interest therein adverse to him for the purpose of determining
such adverse estate or interiest. Now it is quite apparent that
the title of the defendant to the lands in question is involved
under this act, and that the determination of the Court must be
conclusive against him and all claiming under him as between
the parties. If not, the act is of no effect. And it is difficult
to see how this determination can take place vithout at the
same time necessarily involving the determination of the plaintiff's title. The estate to be determined by the very terms of
the act is an estate adverse to the plaintigT thus raising an issue
VOL. 1.

39

SUPREME COURT.
United Slates vs. Grimes.
between the estates or titles of the respective- parties to the lands
in controversy. Again, suppose the determination be,. as it was
in this case, in favor of the adverse estate, is the adjudication
of no effect? Is it binding only when against this estate? We
suppose not.
We have said we have been aided upon this point by the
practical construction given to the statute in the-proceedings of
the Court below. The pleadings put in issue the legal title to
the premises in dispute between the parties-each set up a claim
to the title and relied solely upon it. The Court of Common
Pleas passed upon this title, and upon nothing else, as did the
Supreme Court on the appeal. It seems quite clear that both
the counsel and the Courts in thee proceedings understood the
jurisdiction conferred upon them, as we have endeavored to
explain it.
The Court of Common Pleas, which decided the question in
favor of the plaintiff, not only adjudged that he had the legal
title but that the defendants had not. The Sipreme Court, on
the. appeal, having reversed this judgment, directed that the
proceedings be remitted to the Court below, and there be dismissed.
It was a dismissal of the plaintiff's suit upon the merits, and,
of course, as conclusive upon the rights of the parties as any
other judgment that might have been rendered in the case.
Judgment of the Court-affirmed: -

THE UNITED STATES vs. GRIMES.
I The assignee of a Mexican title was not prohibited from presenting his case to the Land Commissioners in his own name;
and where he was assignee of the whole claim, that was his
proper method of proceeding.
2. But where the land claimed was portioned out among many
vendees, the proper party to the proceeding was the original
grantee, who could produce the documents of title, and who
best knew how to establish it.

