SUPREME COURT.
King vs. Ackerman.

KING vs. ACKERMAN.

1. It is an established rule of the common law, that a devise of
lands without words of limitation confers an estate for life
only.
2. But because this rule generally defeated the intention of the
testator, the Courts have been astute in finding exceptions
to it.
8. Where laud is devised without legal words of limitation, and a
provision is added that the devisee may do therewith as he
pleases, a fee is presumed to have been intended.
4. It is also well settled, that where a devisee whose estate is not
defined, is directed to pay debts, legacies, or a sum in gross,
he takes a fee.
5. This last rule though founded on inference is as technical and
rigid in its application as that to which it is an exception;
for Courts will not inquire into the relative value of the land
and the charge, nor decide on the probability of the devisee
being called on to pay the charge.
6. Where a testator gives one piece of land to his son with the
privilege of doing therewith as he pleases, and makes another
devise to the same son, without using those or any similar
words, it does not follow that there was no actual intent to
give a fee in the last mentioned laud.
7. A Court may look beyond the face of the will, to explain an
ambiguity as to the person or property to which it applies,
but never for the purpose of enlarging or diminishing the
estate devised.
This case came up on a writ of error to the Circuit Court for
the So-thern District of New York. It was an ejectment for
certain lots now within the limits of the city, and formerly part
of the estate of Lawrence Benson, deceased.
Lawrence Benson, at the time of his death, had two tracts of
land, which he held in fee, one occupiedby himself and one by
George Williams. He had one son and two grand-daughters,
the childre-n of a deceased daughter. He died in 1822, having

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
King vs. Ackerman.
made the will copied in the opinion of the Court, by which he
gave the Williams' place to his son Benjamin, "to do and dispose
of as he may think pioper ;'.' and the.Homestead, without words
of limitation, charging the devisee with the payment of $1,500
to his grand-children. The lots in controversy were part of the
Homestead. The plaintif after the death of Benjamin Benson,
claimed an interest therein, as one of the heirs-at-law of Lawrence
Benson. The defendant asserted his right under conveyances
made by Benjamin Benson in his lifetime. The question was,
whether the will gave Benjamin a fee in the Homestead, or only
a life estate.
On the trial before the Circuit Court, the plaintiff offered
evidence, to show that the Williams' place, at the date of the
will, and ever afterwards, was worth greatly more than the sum
charged upon the devisee in favor of the, testator's grandchildren. This evidence was rejected, and Mr. Justice Nelson
held that, by the legal and true construction of the will, Benjamin Benson took a fee in both places. Whereupon the plaintiff
sued out this writ of error.
Mr. Cutler, of New York, and .Mr-. Black, of Pennsylvania, for
the plaintiff in error, argued that the will, properly construed,
uccording to the law of New York, as it stood in 1822, gave
Benjamin Benson no more than a life estate in the Homestead
place; that the fee simple remained undisposed of, and descended
;o the testator's heirs-at-law, of whom the plaintiff was one, and
that she had a right, after the life estate terminated, by the death
of Benjamin, to recover her share in it.
It is undeniable that a devise of real property, to do and dispo d
of it as the dei see may think proper,creates an estate in fee. It
is equally clear that, by the common law, a devise of land without words which in any way denote the quantity of a donation
of the estate, passes nothing but an estate for life. Benjamin,
therefore, took a fee in the Williams' place, and by the words of
the ivill, giving him the Homestead, he could have only a life
estate in that
It is also quimitted. that where a testator gives land without

AA0

SUPREME

COU.RT.

King .vs. Ackemp.n.

words pf limitatiqn, 4s in this devise of the Hpmestead, and
therefore, byth.e words of the devise, gives a life.state only
s.Vph life qstte will be enlarged to a fee if the same will imposes
upon the de-visee a personal charge with respect to the estate
devised. This rule is founded on the natural presumption, that
no testator wpuld expose his devisee to the possible danger of
.beconing a loser by his bounty. The testator, in such a case,
must have meant to give a fee;, because, if it were a life estate,
the devisee would, by accepting it, render himself personally
liable.for the sum charged on him, and he might die befpre the
profits would be equal to the charge.
But -there is no case in the books like this. here were twc
devises, to the same person, of two different pieces of land, both
of them greatly exceeding in value the amount of the personal
c1arge upon the devisee. One is in fee, and the other for life.
The devisee could take what was given by the words of the will;
he could assume .the charge, and he could not possibly be a
loser, though he should die the next instant. To avoid the dan
ger of a 'loss, it was not necessary to presume that a fee should
be given in both places. The testator had provided against
tjat danger by simply giving his son a fee in one of them.
But it is suggested that the farm in which a fee was given
,might .ppssibly not be equal in value to the charge, and if that
be tlie case, then a loss might possibly ensue to the devisee, by
.Ihs dq.ah,.before he could make the deficiency out of the life
.estate in the other. Surely the principle of no decided case, nor
nodogic that is pound, can justify this argument. Where.a tes
tator gives land without saying for what estate, the Courts-must
ascertain his actual intent as well as they can. From the naked
devise the inference is, that he meant a life estate only; but if a
personal charge in respect of it be imposed, you infer fairly and
naturally that lie meant a fee, .because nothing less than a fee
can make the devispe absolutely safe. You reason here, as in
other cases, from a fact that is known to another fact which is
.aotknown. But,if you infer the testa tor's intent from the sapposed inadequacy of the fee simple, you reason to one unknown
f4et from another fact equally unknown. To justify a Court in

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

41

King vs. Ackerman.
saying that the testator meant to give a fee without saying so,.it
is jiecessary that the possibility of loss should be clearly and
plainly established as an undisputed fact. It is not to be assumed
and imagined, and then made the basis of presumption -for
another fact.
That the possibility of loss to the devisee is established here
as a known fact, will hardly be contended; nor can we suppose
that the Court will consider it even probable in the face of the
plaintiff's rejected offer to prove the contrary.
The presumption that a testator meant a fee, because the deyise
is coupled with a charge, is not a presumption of law, but of
fact; not legal and conclusive, but natural and open to be repelled
by counter proof. It was, therefore, erroneous to reject the
plaintiff's evidence.
But the plaintiff did not need the evidence. It was for the
defendant to show that the Williams' place was worth less than
the charge. The error of the Circuit Court consisted in assuming the possibility of loss to the devisee when that fact was not
proved, and upon evidence which shewed it to be at least as
probably false as true.
Again, it will be agreed that if the testator's intent to give no
more than a life estate is apparent on the face of the will, it will
not be enlarged to a fee by implication from a ersonal charge.
In this case it is clear that he could have intended no more than
a life estate. 'He gave one place with words of p-rpetuity and
followed it with a gift of another omitting those words, .and
omitting all words of equivalent import. I give Benjamin the
Homestead to dispose of as he thinks proper, and I give him the
Williams' place. Is not this as clear as if he had said I give him
the Homestead and the Williams' place; and as to theformer he
may do with that as he pleases? Is not the omission of the
enlarging words in the latter devise as plain an indication of the
testator's intention to make it a life estate as if he had expressed
it in words ?
Or. 0' onor, of NeW York, for Defendant in Error.
This case does not differ in principle from other cases in which

SUPREME COURT.
King vs. Ackerman.
the Courts have held it to be settled law that a devise of an estate
in land without words of perpetuity is enlarged to a fee by
charging the person of the devisee with the payment of money.
The fact that other property was given in fee by the same will
to the same person may furnish th6 ground for an argument, but
not for a sound distinction.
It was not the intention of the testator that Benjamin should
take the property in qiuestion with the power of alienating it;
but as it had come to him from his father, he meant that it should
pass from his son to his %heirs. The words connected with the
other devise, "to do and dispose of," &c., were intended to give
the power of alienation, not to increase the estate. To give was,
in his mind, to give absolutely and forever, and "to do and dispose of as he might think proper," could add nothing to the
duration of the estate bestowed in the Williams' place, and the
absence of those words in the devise of the Homestead would
not make the estate in that any less. The supposed necessity
for the use of those words arose out of the testator's opinion
that in the case of a family estate the right to alienate did not
legally exist as an incident of ownership, but must be created
by superadded words expressly giving the power.
It is not denied that where property is given in a will without
words of limitation, the donee can by force of the words alone
take nothing but an estate for life. The testator has not expressed the idea of giving him any more, and the Courts cannot
see any method of giving him any less. Consequently it is a
necessary implication that he should take for life.
This rule is, too old and too well settled to be.qliestionea or
shaken. But there is another rule equally well established-as
old as the days of Coke-which insures our safety. Where, on
a gift of lands without limitation, there "isa-charge on the person of the devisee, which the devisee will incur as a binding
personal obligation, if he accepts the devise, he becomes a purchaser. And as a purchaser under a will and not a deed, purchasing without words of limitation or qualification, he, by
reasonable inference and construction buys the thing absolutely.
As in al. other like cases of purchase, the Courts will supply

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
King vs. Ackerman.
any words of limitation or any assurances that may be deemed
necessary to make the title absolute and perfect.
Such being the principle upon which the rule is founded its
application to this case is clear as. to hny other. What difference can be made in the right of the devisee to take the
Homestead absolutely as a purchaser by the fact that another
estate is expressly given him in full property? Having acquired
them both for a consideration and having paid or bound himself
to pay the price he is certainly not compelled to take one as a
mere life tenant because the testator declared that he should
have the other in fee. If the testator had been totally.silent
concerning the quantity of estate-had omitted to couple either
devise with words of limitation, the law would have given both
in fee. But the testator as to one devise expresses the lega. conclusion. Does that destroy.the devisee's right to have a legal
conclusion drawn from the other?
This old rule which presumes that a testator meant to give
land, only for life when he uses no words to express the quantity of the estate, defeats the actual intent in most cases. Ex.
perience has shown it to be mischievous. The justice and good
sense of the worl? has abolished it. It has ceased to exist in
England and in nearly (perhaps all) the States of this Union.
The Courts were always more anxious to find exceptions to the
rule than to enforce the rule itself. If,therefore, it be doubtful
whether this case is within it or not, the Court will give the
benefit of that doubt to the devisee.
It was proposed to shoW upon the .trial that, at the time the
decedent made his will, and at the time of his. death, this
Willians' lot was worth enough in the market to have paid the

$1,500.
The title to land should not be permitted to turn on questions
of that character. If it should be thought proper to look at the
question of value, you would perceive that the "testator could
not have had any knowledge what would be the value of the
land, in which it is said a fee sim2le was unmistakably given, at
the point of time when: his son might be coerced to pay this
sium of money; and consequently the.value of that land, as a

SUPREME COURT.
King vs. Ackerman.
distinct subject from which to obtain the means of paying this
legacy of $1,500 could not have entered into his contemplation,
consequently the gift of these two pieces of land, placed as it is
in one section, must be taken as an entirety; and the sum specified in the second clause of the will must be regarded as a condition imposed upon the devisee in respect to the whole property
mentioned in that section.
There is one view of the case in reference to the words of
limitation which deserves attention concerning the Williams' lot,
the devisee was to do and dispose of it as he might think proper.
This certainly meant that he was to have it free of all charges and
incumbrances whateJer. If he was bound to raise $1,500 out of
it he would not have power to dispose of it, as he might think
proper. On the contrary the residue only would be delivered
over to his absolute disposition. The Homestead is not declared
to be unfettered and the intent of the testator must therefore have
been to impose the charge with respect to that alone. This
seems a conclusive answer to that part of the argument on the
other side which asserts that the charge was imposed only with
respect to the Williams' place.
Mr. Justice GRIER. It has been an established rule, in the
construction of wills, that a devise of lands, without words of
limitation, confers on the devisee an estate for life only. This
rule was founded rather on policy than on reason; for while
it favored the heir-at-law, it generally defeated tae intention of
the testator. This is acknowledged by Lord Mansfield in Loveacre vs. Blight, (Cowper); and the interference of modern
legislation, to abolish the rule and establish a contrary one, is
evidence of the correctness of his remark. This change has
been effected by statute in England and most if not all of tht
States of this Union.
The will now presented for our consideration was made before
this obnoxious rule was repealed in New York, and we are compelled to examine its provisions fettered by this technical, artificial, and now nearly obsolete rule of construction. Courts
have always been astute in searching for some equivalent

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

416

Kinig vs. Ack~erman
popular phrasb, or some provision of the wll inconipatible, witf
such imputed intention, to rescue it from the effect of this rule.
Thus when a testator devises land without legal words of litaitation, but adds-that the devisee "may s611 or do thereAit-ads lie
pleases," he is presumed to have intended to give a fee; becmiise
such a power would be incompatible with a less estate. It is a'
long settled rule also, that where a devisee, whose estate-is'uhdefined, is directed to pay the testator's debts or legacies or' a
specific sum iii gross, he takes an estate in fee. The reason on
which this rule is founded is, that if.the devisee took a less
estate he might be damnified by the determination of his interest
before reimbursement of his expenditure. This fule, though
founded on inference or implication, is nevertheless as technical
and rigid in its application as that to which it is an exception;
for the Court will not inquire into the relative value of the'lah6n
and the charge; or, if the charge be contingent, will not w'eigh
probabilities as to whether the devisee will ever be called 6oi- to
pay it. The intention of the testator as to the limitations of an
estate devised can be judged and decided only from his own
language a contained within the "four corners" of his' will.
Parol evidence cannot be received to show that such inforedce
was not foumided on probability, or that this rule of construction
ought not. to apply under certain circumstances. This would in
effect be delivering the power and duty of construing the will
to a jury.
The will of Lawrence Benson is very brief and is, a's follows:
"In the'first poace, I give and bequeath unto my son, Benjamin
Benson; all that estate now occupied by George Wlliabns, to
&lo arid dispose of ashe may think proper.
I also give and bequeath unto my son, Benujamin L. B'enson
the Ifomestead where I now live, situated on Harlem River.
Secmdly. My will and intention is, that my soAi, Beiafiiixi L.
Beison, do give unto my grandehildren, after the decedsle of my
wife, the sum of $1,500.
T!ird/: The income of these legacies, aud als6 of m egtfaf,
•real and personal, I ve unto my loving wife; N4tari Bes56

SUPREME COURT.
King vs. Ackerman.
during her widowhood, to do and dispose of as-she may thinir
proper."
It is plain that this instrument has been written by a person
inops concilii," and wholly ignorant of proper legal phraseology.
He uses the term "bequeath" instead of "devise" in the gift of
his real estate.
By the first clause he gives his two pieces of real estate to his
son Benjamin, who appears to be the chief object of his bounty.
By the second, he charges the sum of $1,500 on Benjamin to
be paid to the grandchildren of testator.
By the third, he gives to his wife a life estate on all of his
estate, real and personal, to be forfeited if she marry again.
Now, we must observe,
1st. That the son has clearly but an estate in remainder in the
lands devised to him.
2d. That it is a vested remainder.
3d. That this testator hot only postpones the possession and
enjoyment of the land devised to his son for an indefinite time,
but charges him with the payment of a gross sum of money,
which he will be personally liable to pay, for land which he
may never personally possess or enjoy.
If the charge is sufficient in law to give the devisee an estate
in fee by implication or presumption, how much stronger is
this presumption when his enjoyment of it is indefinitely postponed.
But it is contended, that, because the testator has used the
phrase "to do and dispose of as he may think proper," as regards
the Williams' farm, anid in the devise of the Homestead has
omitted it, such omission as to the latter is equivalent to an
express limitation of it to the life of -the devisee; and that the
Court ought to presume that the sum to be paid was intended as
a consideration for the first only; and if they will not presum.
it for want of evidence of its sufficiency, that parol evidence
ought to be admitted to show the value of the Williams' pro
perty to have been more than sufficient to pay the sum plainly
chazged on both.
Now there is no established rule of construction'that if a

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

417

King vs. Ackerman.
testator having devised two messuages to his son and charged
the devisee with the payment of legacies that if he add this
informal power as to one, it is equivalent to an expressed limitation as to the other. Nor is it a necessary inference or logical
conclusion, arising from the omission to use certain informal
words, which have been construed to show an intention to give
a fee as to one, that the testator did not intend to give a fee in
the other of the messuages charged. Besides, it is clear that
Benjamin could not repudiate his obligation to pay the legacies
by refusing to accept the- gift of the Williams' farm, while he
retained that of the Homestead. To conclude, therefore, from
this fact that the testator did not intend to give a fee in both.
would be mere conjecture, and that, with no sufficient reason'to
support it.
The face of this will shows that the testator did not suppose
these informal words, giving a power to sell as to one, were
necessary to enlarge the estate to a fee, much less that their
omission would limit the devise of the other to a life estate, for
he adds the same power to the life estate given to his wife.
If we were to indulge in conjecture, why this phrase was
coupled with one of the estates devised and not with the other'
it would be, that th testator intended to confine the charge of
the legacies to the "Homestead" and not the Williams' farm, or
that he wished the one to remain in the family and name, while
the son should be at full liberty to dispose of the other as he
might think proper.
I The rule of law which gives a fee, where the devisee is
charged
with a sum of money, is a technical dominant rule, and intended
to defeat the effect of the former rule which itself so often defeated the intention of the testator.
Courts have always been astute, as we have said, to find reauons for rescuing a will from the artificial rule established in
favor of the heir-at-law, and will not even be acute in searching for
reasons to restore its force, where the statute has not abolished
it We are not compelled to make this inference or implication
through submission to any established rule of construction; on
the contrary, we are required to make an exception'tc one'on
27
VoL. 11

SUPREME COURT.
Chicago City vs. .Robbins.
mere conjecture, and to introduce parol testimony as to value to
justify a departure from it. A Court may look beyond the face
f the will where there is an ambiguity as to the person or pro.
perty to which it is applicable, but no case can be found whore
such testimony has been introduced to enlarge or dininish the
estate devised.
We are of opinion, therefore, that Benjamin L. Benson took
an estate in fee in both the messuages described in the will.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed with
costs.

CHICAGO CITY vs. ROBBINS.
1. A municipal corporation, having the exclusive care and control
of the streets, is obliged to see that they are kept safe for the
passage of persons and property, and to abate all nuisances
that might prove dangerous; if this duty be neglected, and
in consequence thereof, any one is injured, the corporation
will be liable for the damages sustained.
2. The corporation, has, however, a remedy over against a private
party who has so used the streets as to produce the injury,
unless the corporation concurred in the wrong.
8. A private party is concluded by a judgment recovered against
a corporation for his act or negligence, if he knew that the
suit was pending and could have defended it.
4. An express notice to such party to defend the suit, is not necessary to create his liability.
1 But in an action brought by a corporation, against such party,
to recover back the damages it has been compelled to pay for
his assumed neglect, it is competent for the defendant to show
that he was under no obligation to keep the street in safe
condition, and that it was not through his default that the
accident happened.
6. In such case, if it appears that there was fault both on the part
of the corporation and defendant, the former cannot recover

