DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

.41

Callanvs. May.

decree in the case. After the assets are all collected by the
Receiver, so that the Master may ascertain the "amount to be distributed, the question now proposed will be properly raised,
and decided on exceptions to the Master's report. That report
should state the amount of assets to be distributed; the amount
collected from the original defendants, also the other amounts collected by the Receiver from persons not in the decree; whether
the amounts collected from the parties respondent are sufficient
to pay each of the original parties complainant ? if not, how
much to each; how much other assets have been collected by
the receiver, and how much would be coming to each creditor
on the hypothesis that all the assets are to be divided among
all the creditors equally.
With these facts ascertained, the Court will be in a condition
to make a final decree, which can be reviewed by this Court
but not till then.
The appeal is therefore premature, and must be diAmissed.

CALL"

vs. MA.

L Real estate being sold under a regular proceeding of the Circuit
Court, an order of the same Court awarding process to put the
purchaser in possession, is not a decree from which the tenant
can appeal to this Court.
2. If the tenant had an agreement with the purchaser, which gave
him the right to remain in possession, his remedy was a bill
for an injunction, in which a final decree could be passed and an
appeal legally taken.
8. The order of a Judge allowing an appeal, so far from being con-clusive upon the Court, does not even imply that the Judge
himself, has a settled opinion concerning the appellant's right.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia.
The record brought up by this appeal showed that in 1862 a

SUPREME

COURT.

Callan vs. May.
cause was pending in the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia designated as Statham ct al. vs. Callan et al. In that
cause the Court made certain decrees and decretal orders in
pursuance of which a sale was made by trustees of some real
property in the City of Washington. The purchaser at the first
sale made by the trustees was J. J. Waring, whose contract was
aunulled by his failure to comply with the terms of it. Another
sale was then regularly made under the order of the Court to
Austin Sherman, who assigned his right to John Frederick May,
and May having fully complied with the terms of the sale, a
final order ratifying and confirming it was made by the Court.
May being by virtue of these proceedings the owner of the property in question, found John F. Callan in possession. Callan
refused to go out, alleging that he was there under an agreement
made between himself and Waring, the purchaser at the first
sale, who had made default. He asserted also that May had
confirmed this agreement of Waring, and made it binding upon
himself by accepting the note which was due under it. May
then presented his petition to the Court, setting forth the facts
and praying for process to put him in possession. Callan
answered the petition. The Court found that May was entitled
to possession, and awarded him a writ of habere facias posses.
sionem. Callan petitioned for an appeal to the Supreme Court.
The appeal was allowed on special allocatur, by Mr. Justice
Wayne, and the record brought up. May moved to dismiss on
the ground that no appeal would lie from such an order as that
made jn his favor by the Circuit Court.
Mr. Carlisle, of Washington City, and 21r. Afay, of Maryland.
for the motion.
Mr. Coxe, of Washington City, contra.
Mr. Chi- f Justice TANEY. This appeal must be dismissed.
The application of May for process to obtain possession of the
land was not a suit in which any final decree could be passed so
as o give to either party a right to appeal. The proceedings in

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Callanvs. M'ay.
the Circuit Court after its decree was affirmed in the case of
Statham, Smilhson & Co. vs. Callan, et al., were nothing more
than proceedings required to carry into execution that decree.
And when May had become the purchaser, and the sale was
ratified by the Court, and he had complied with the conditions
of the sale, he was entitled, as a matter of course, to the procecs
of the Court to put him in possession, The order of the Court
directing process to issue is not such a final order or decree in
a case as the Act of 1789 contemplates. It is nothing more
than an order of process to carry into execution a final decree
already passed in a case in which May was not a party.
If there was any agreement between May and Callan, after
Mlay became the purchaser, whereby the land was leased to
Callan for a term which is not yet expired, the remedy of Callan
was by a bill in Equity setting out the agreement, and praying
that Mfay might be enjoined from disturbing him in his posses
sion. This would have been a new case in which a final decree
might have been passed and an appeal legally taken. But such
an agreement can furnish no ground for appeal from an order
of the Circuit Court carrying into execution the mandate of this
Court in the case of Statham, Smitlson &
vs. Callan et al., in
which May was not a party and had no concern.
It seems to be supposed by counsel in the argument that the
order of the Judge of this Court allowing the appeal was conelusive, and that its validity was not now open to dispute. But
the allocatur of a Judge was never so considered. Writs of
error to State Courts cannot issue without the allocatur of a
Judge of this Court. Yet there is hardly a term in which a
case of that description has not been dismissed upon the ground
that the transcript did not show a case in which a writ of error
would lie. A contrary doctrine would be exceedingly incon
venient if it could be maintained, and would throw upon a single
Judge the responsibility which properly belongs to the Court.
And it does not by any means follow that the Judge who authorizes the appeal has made up his own mind that the party is
legally entitled to it. He may, and no doubt often does, entertain doubts upon the subject, or may regard the point as new
-6.

64

SUPREME COURT.

Wright et als. vs. Sill.
and undecided, and upon which different opinions may be enter.
tained, and in such cases he grants the appeal in order to bring
the matter before the Court and enable it to decide for itself
whether the case is or is not within their appellate jurisdiction
as regulated by the Act of Congress. The allocatur of a single
Judge certainly cannot enlarge the appellate powers of this
Court beyond the limits prescribed by law, and that law does
not authorize an appeal from an order directing execution to
issue to enforce a judgment.
This appeal must therefore be dismissed.

WRIGHT ET ALS. vS. SILL.

A question repeatedly argued and decided must be considered as no
longer open for discussion, whatever differences of opinion may
once have existed on the subject in this Court.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio.
This case was submitted to the Court upon the record, without any argument, written or oral.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE. This is a suit in equity, brought
here by appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Ohio.
The questions presented are, whether the 60th section of the
Act of the Legislature of Ohio, entitled "An Act to incorporate
the State Bank of Ohio and other Banking Companies," passed
February 24th, 1845, constitutes a contract upon the subject of
taxation, which is binding upon the State; and, if so, wherner
that contract is impaired by the subsequent Act of the Legislature, passed April 5th, 1859, entitled "An Act for the assessment and taxation of all. the property in this State, and for
levying taxes thereon according to its true value in money."
These questioiis came before this Court the first time in the
Piqua Branch of the State Bank of Ohio vs. Knoop, (16 How.,

