DEOEMBER TERM, 1862.

635

Prize Ca"es.

All will agree -that this is the enunciation of a true principle,
and it is only by a wise and forbearing application of it that the
operation of the powers and functions of the two Governments
can be harmonized. Their powers are so intimately blended
and connected that it is impossible to define or fix the limit of
the one without at the same time that of the other in respect to
any one of the great departments of Government. When the
limit is ascertained and fixed, all perplexity and confusion disappear. Each is sovereign and independent in its sphere of
action, and exempt from the interference or control of the other,
either in the means employed or functions exercised, and influenced by a public and patriotic spirit on both-sides, a conflict
of authority need not occur or be feared.
Judgment of the Court below is reversedt*

'THE BRIG AmY WARWICK.
THE SCHOONER CRENSHAW.
THE BARQUE HIAWATHA.
THE, SCHOONER BRILiAq TE
I Neutrals may question the existence of a blockade," and chal-

lenge the legal authority of the party which has undertaken
to establish it.

2 One belligerent, engaged in actual war, has a right to blockade
the ports of the other, and neutrals are bound to respect that
right.
3 To justify the exercise of this right, and legalize the capture of-a
neutral vessel for violating it, a state of actual war must exist,

and the neutral must have knowledge or notice that it is the
intention of one belligerent to blockade the ports of the other.
* The case of 2%o Bank of the Com,nonwealth vs. The Commissioner of
Tazes, was also heard at this term. The record raised precisely the same
queitions as that in the Bank of Commerce vs. ,New York City, and the cases
were decided in the same way for the same reasons. It was argued by Mr.
Bradford of New Yorl for the Bank, and by Mr. Brady and Mr. Develinu oi
New York, contra.

SUPREME

COURT.

Prize Cases.
4. To create this and other belligerent rights, as against neutrals,
it is not necessary that the party claiming them should be at
war with a separate and independent power: the parties to a
civil war are in the same predicament as two nations who
engage in a contest and have recourse to arms.
5 A state of actual war may exist without any formal declaration
of it by either party; and this is true of both a civil and a
foreign war.
6. A civil war exists, and may be prosecuted on the same footing
as if those opposing the Government were foreign invaders,
whenever the regular course of justice is interrupted by revolt,
rebellion, or insurrection, so that the Courts cannot be kept
open.
7 Thb present civil war- between the United States and the socalled Confederate States, has such character and magnitude
as to give the United States the same rights and powers which
they might exercise in the case of a national or foreign war;
and they have, therefore, the right jure bello to institute a
blockade of any ports in possession of the rebellious States.
8. The proclamation of blockade by the President is of itself conclusive evidence that a state of war existed, which demanded
ani authorized recourse to such a measure.
9. All persons residing within the territory occupied by the hostile
paxiy in this contest, are liable to be treated as enemies,
tho agh not foreigners.
10. It is a settled rule, that a vessel in a blockaded port is presumed
to have notice of a blockade as soon as it commences.
11. The proclamation of blockade having allowed fifteen days for
neutrals to leave, a vessel which overstays the time is liable
to capture although she was prevented by accident from
getting out sooner.
12 To make a capture lawful, it is not necessary that a warning of
the blockade should have been previously endorsed on the
register of the captured vessel.
These were cases in which the vessels named, together with
their cargies, were severally captured and brought in as prizes
by public ships of the United States. The libels were filed by

DECEMBER TERM. 1862.
Prize Cases.
the proper District Attorneys, on behalf of the United States
and on behalf of the officers and crews of the ships, by which
the captures were respectively made. In each case the District
Court pronounced a decree of condemnation, from which the
claimants took an appeal.
The Amy Warwick was a merchant vessel, and belonged to
Richmond. Her registered owners were David and William
Currie, Abraham Warwick and. George W. Allen, who resided
at that place. Previous to her capture she had made a voyage
from New York to Richmond, and thence to Rio de Janeiro
Brazil. At the last named port she shipped a cargo of coffee
5,100 bags, to be delivered at New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore or Richmond, according to the orders which the master
would receive at Hampton Roads. She was on her voyage from
Rio to Hampton Roads and off Cape Henry when she was captured (July 10th, 1861) by the Quaker City. At the time of the
capture the barque was sailing, under American colors, and her
commander was ignorant of the war. The Quaker City carried
her into Boston, where she was libelled as enemy's property.
The claimants of the vessel were the persons already named as
owners. James Dunlap, Robert Edmonds, tohn L. Phipps, and
Charles Brown -claimed the cargo. The claimants in their
several answers denied, any hostility on their part to the .Government or Laws of the United States, averred that the master
was igaorant of any blockade, embargo or other interdiction of
commerce with the ports of Virginia, and asserted generally that
the capture was unlawful.
The Crenskaw was captured by the United States Steamer
Star, at the inouth of James River, on the 17th of May, 1861.
She was bound for Liverpool with a cargo of tobacco from
Richmond, and was owned by David and William Currie, who
admitted the existence of an insurrection in Virginia against the
Laws and Government of the United States, but averred that
they were innocent of it. The claimants, of the cargo made
similar answes, and all the claimants asserted that they had no
such notice of the blockade as rendered the vessel or cargo
liable to seizure for leaving the port of Richmond at the time

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.
when the voyage was commenced. She was condemned as prize
on the ground that she had broken, or was attempting to break,
the blockade at the time of her capture.
The Hiawatha was a British barque, and was on her voyage
from Richmond to Liverpool with a cargo of tobacco. She left
Richmond on the 17th of May, 1861, and was captured in Hampton Roads on the 20th by the Minnesota, and taken to New
York. Her owners were Miller, Mssman & Co., of Liverpool,
who denied her liability to capture and condemnation on the
ground that no sufficient notice had been given of the blockade.
The claimants of the cargo put their right to restoration upon a
similar basis.
The Brilliante was a Mexican schooner, owned by Rafael
Preciat and Julian Gual, residents of Campeche. She bad on
board a cargo of flour, part of which was owned by the owners
of the vessel, and part by the Sefores Ybana & Donde, who were
also Mexican citizens. She had a regular clearance at Campeche for New Orleans, and had made the voyage between those
ports. At New Orleans she took in her cargo of flour, part to
be delivered at Sisal and part at Campeche, and took a clearance
for both those places. On her homeward voyage she anchored
in Biloxi Bay, intending to communicate with some vessel of
the blockading fleet and get a permit to go to sea, and while so
at anchor she was taken by two boats sent off from the Massachusetts. She was carried into Key West, where the legal proceedings against her were prosecuted in thq District Court of the
United States for the District of Florida.
The minuter circumstances of each case, and the points of
fact, as well as law, on which all the cases turned, in this Court
and in the Court below, are set forth with such precision in the
opinions of both Mr. Justice Grier and Mr. Justice Nelson, that
more than the brief narrative above given does not seem to be
necessary.
The case of the Amy Warwick was argued by Mr. Dana,of
Massachusetts, for Libellants,. and by Mr. Bangs, of Massachu.
setts, for Claimants.

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

639

Prize Cases.
The Crenshaw, by Mr. Eames, of Washington City, for Libellauts, and by .Aessrs:Lord, Edwards, and Donohue, of New York,
for Claimants.
The Hiawatha,by Mr.Evarts and 24r. Sedgwics, of New York,
for Libellants, and by Mr.Edwards,of Nev# York, for Claimants.
The Brilliante,by ]fr. Eames, of Washington City, for Libellants, and by Hr. Carlisle,of Washington City, for Claimants.
One argument on each side is all that can be given. Those
of Mr. Dana and Mr. Carlisle have been selected, not for any
reason which implies that the Reporter has presumed to pronounce judgment upon their merits as compared with those of
the other distinguished counsel, but because they came to his
hands in a form which relieved him of the labor which the
others would have cost to re-write and condense them.
Air. Carlisle. The Brilliante is a regularly registered Mexican ship. Her principal owner, although a Mexican citizen
by birth, had been naturalized in the United States. He was,
before and at the time of the seizure, the United States Consul at
the port of Campeche, a port on the coast of Mexico. The
vessel 'was seized by the United States ship Massachusetts, in
Biloxi Bay, north of Ship Island, between Pas 0rCtien and Pascagoula Bay, on the 23d of June, 1861.
She had sailed from New Orleans, with a cargo of six hundred
barrels of flour, put on board there about the 16th of that month,
four hundred barrels for the house of the claimant, (American
Consul at Campeche,) and the residue for the Mexican house of
Ybana & Donde, at Sisal, also a port on the coast of Mexico; to
which houses it was respectively consigned, they being owners
of the same, in these proportions.
I. There was no actual breach. The question is of intent.
At the time of the seizure, the Brilliante was lying at anchor
in Biloxi Bay, and had so lain at anchor twenty-four hours or
more. "She came out from New Orleans and anchored in

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.
Biloxi Bay, so as to be able to communicate with one of the
blockading vessels, but did not see any vessel of war. On the
next day, on which the vessel was seized, the sea was too'rough
to go on board the Massachusetts, which was lying in sight."
Mr. Preciat, the claimant, "wished to go on board one of the
blockading vessels, to see if he could get a permit to go out to
sea; otherwise he intended to have returned with the vessel to
New Orleans." (Deposition of the said Preciat, taken in preparatorio,Record, p. 11.) He was returning to Campeche, "to
attend to the duties of his office (U. S. Consul,) and business
generally." On going to New Orleans, he had a letter from tho
Commander of the Brooklyn, one of the blockading squadron,
to the Commander of the Niagara, another of them. forwarding
him to Mobile, where his son was at school, and whom he desired
to take home. The passengers and crew mutinied, and refused
to go to Mobile. The mate, taking control, steered for New
Orleans, where the vessel arrived, and the crew were discharged.
These facts appear from the declarations in preyaratorio. The
libel and decree are exclusively founded on the alleged attempt
to leave New Orleans. The claimant had a right to expect that
his application to return, altho-dgh sailing from New Orleans
would have been granted; or, if not granted, that he woula'
have been allowed the option of going back to New Orleans;
which he declares, on his examination, was his intention, if not
permitted to return to Campeche. He swears that he had na
intention to violate the blockade. There is nothing to contradict
him, but everything corroborates his declaration. He was at
anchor twenty-four hours, and a considerable portion of that
time in sight of one of the blockading vessels, which the evidence
shows he could not safely attempt to reach in consequence of
the state of the weather. Before that period there is nothing to
show that he might not have run the' blockade safely; nor is
there any reason suggested or supposable why he cast anchor,
excep. that he bad no intent to violate the blockade. His
public character as United States Consul, and the facts before
referred to, go in confirmation' of this.
But chiefly, the terms of the President's proclamation insti

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Prize Cases.
tuting this so-called blockade, are important to be considered
upon this question of intent. The condition of things was unprecedented. From the nature and structure of our peculiar
system of government, it could have had nQ-precedent. The
co-existence of Federal and State sovereignties, and the double
allegiance of the people of the States, which no statesman cr
lawyer has doubted till now, and which this Court has repeatedly recognized as lying at the foundation of some of .its most
important decisions; the delegation of special and limited
powers to the Federal Government, with the express reservatioi
of all other powers "to the States and the people thereof" whc
created the Union and established the Constitution; the power.
proposed to be granted and which were refused, and the gendralcourse of the debates on the constitution; all concurred in pre.
senting this to the President as a case.of the first impression.
Assuming the power to close the ports of the seceded States, he
evidently did so with doubt and hesitation. If the power be
conceded to him, it cannot be denied that he might modify the
strict law of blockade, and impose a qualified interruption of
commerce. He might well have doubted whether, under the
Constitution which he had sworn to support, a state of war
could exist between a State, or States, and the Federal Union;
whether, when it ceased to be insurrection, and became the
formal and deliberate act of State sovereignty, his executive
powers extended to such an exigency. Certainly, the words of
the Acts of Congress authorizing him to use the navy did not
embrace such a case. It was not quite certain that it had
assumed this imposing shape. The President, so late as his
message of July, was confident that it had not. He believed
that the State sovereignties had been usurped by discontented
leaders and a factious and inconsiderable minority. With the
information laid before him, he declared that these seceded
States were full of people devoted to the Union. Well, there.
fore, might he hesitate to exercise, even if he supposed himself
to possess, the power of declaring or. "recognizing" a state of
war. His powers in case of insurrection or invasion were clear
and undoubted. He had&hio army, the navy, and the militia of
VOL. II.
41

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.
the States (the United States having no militia except in the
federal territories) confided to his command, sub modo.
But insurrection is not war; and invasion is not war. The
Constitution expressly distinguishes them, and treats them as
wholly different subjects. But this belongs to a subsequent
question in the argument. It is now referred to as bearing
upon the construction of the proclamation, and consequently
upon the question of intent to break a bbckade. It is true that
the proclamation calls it a blockade. But the message speaks
of it as proceedings "in the nature of a blockade." And the proclamation itself, by its terms and provisions, substantially conforms to the latter description. It -founds itself upon the existence of "an insurrection." It pronounces the disturbance to be
by "a combination of persons." It proceeds upon the Acts of
Congress provided for "insurrections" by "combintations of
persons." It declares that the executive measures are provisional and temporary only;" until Congress shall have assembled
and deliberated upon the said unlawful proceedings." It requires
the seceded States to disperse, and return peaceably "to their
respective place of abode in twenty days."
"These "combinations of persons," and these "unlawful proceedings," are not at all recognized as presenting a case for
belligerent rights and obligations. Naturally and prudently,
the President did not assume to proclaim a strict blockade,
with the extreme rights which obtain between belligerents, and
with the corresp6nding rights of neutrals. He first called out
the militia of the States, as such. He then used the army and
the navy, under the Act of 1807. But he knew that this was
not war. It was the suppression of insurrection. Consequently,
in this use of the navy, he did not contemplate capture jure belli.
Long after the period involved in this case, he maintained 'o all
the civilized world, (see Mr. Seward's diplomatic correspon
dence, 1861,) that to attribute anything-of belligerent right to
these "combinations of persons" and these "unlawful proceedings,"
was an outrage and an offence to the United States. In effect,
his position was that it was purely a muaicipal question; and,

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

61S

Prize Cases.
of course there could be no blockade, in the international sense,
and no capture jure belli.
Accordingly, the proclamation threatens not the regular pioceedings of a prize Court, but "such proceedings as may be deemed
,advisable." And these proceedings are to follow upon a seizure
to be made in the precise and only case where a vessel shall
have attempted to enter or leave a port, and shall have been
"duly warned by the commhnder of one of the blockading
vessels, who will endorse on her register the fact and date of
such warning; and if the same vessel shall again attempt to enter
or to leave," &c., then these undescribed proceeding shall take
place.
Under these circumstances, upon the question of intent, it is
submitted that the case is with the claimant.
But II. The terms of the proclamation, assuming it to have
intended a blockade, (jure belli,) excuse this vessel and cargo.
The only authority necessary to be referred to here is the case
of Jfd. Ins. Co. vs. Foods, (6 Cr., 49,) decided by this Court. It
is to be argued from, a fortiori. The qualified blockade, by a
belligerent, was recognized. Notoriety of blockade in fact, and
perhaps actual knowledge, are admitted in that case. But
because a special warning off was provided for in this notice of
the blockade, restoration was decreed. This Court said there,
that they could not perceive the reasons for this modification.
Nevertheless, they held it imperative. Here, the reasons are
apparent.
III. This seizure took place before Congress had convened to
act in the premises. It was made during that period when the
President., casting about among doubtful expedients, had used
the navy, under the Acts of Congress for suppressing insurrection and repelling invasion, and had used this force "in the nature
of a blockade." It is denied that during this period there was
WAR, or that the rights and obligations of war, either under the
municipal or international law, bad arisen. Of consequence,
blockade and the prize jurisdiction could not have existed. The
question here is, how can the United States, under the Constitu.
tion, be involved in war? And, to admit for a inoment a

SUPREME

COURT.

Prize Cases.
modern question, who has the power to accept, recognize, or
admit a state of war, so that such a status will affect the people
of the States, and foreign nations and their subjects, with the
consequences of war, municipally and internationally? How are
treaties suspended or abrogated? When are citizens residing
in the several States placed in the condition of alien enemies, or
of persons (nolens volens) identified with the Territory of a publie
enemy, in a state of public war, whether foreign or civil?
And, again, if this was not war, in any legal sense, who haq
the power of closing a port of entry of the United States against
the trade of a foreign nation, to whom all ports of entry are
open by treaty? This vessel and her cargo were wholly Mexi
can. The Port of New Orleans was a port of entry, open to
her, for ingress and egress, and for all lawful commerce. How
was it closed ? It is clear that it was not closed by legislation.
Nor was the Treaty with Mexico, which might have been suspended or abrogated by 'Act of Congress, (being only the
"supreme law of the land," in the same sense with such acts,) in
any degree disturbed by the National Legislature.
Now, this decree of condemnation could only be founded
upon one of two alternatives: seizure under the municipal law,
or capture under the international law, for violation, or attempt
at violation, of a blockade.
It is plain that there was no municipal law by which it could
be justified. The President cannot make, alter, or suspend "the
supreme law of the land ;" and this condemnation rests solely
upon his authority.
IV. Was it capture ? Blockade is- a belligerent right. There
must be war, before there can be blockade in the international
sense, giving jurisdiction in prize. There may be an interruption of commerce, "in the nature of a blockade." But this is the
exercise of the legislative power, and is purely municipal. The
distinction is plainly shown in Rose vs. Himely, (4 Cr., 272).
But this legislative power does not reside in the President. The
Constitution, in its first section, lays the corner-stone of the
edifice it was erecting, declaring that "all legislative powers
herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

645

Prize Cases.
which shall consist," &c. Therefore, it only remains tc inquire,
was there war?
But it has been objected that this question is not open here
to this foreign claimant. This is a mistake. It is a principle
of the law of nations that "the sovereign power of the State has
alone the authority to make war." Wheat. on Captures, 40;
Wildman, vol, 2, chap. 1. And Vattel (Lib. I.l, cap. 1, sec. 4)
says: "The sovereign powerh-bas alone the authority to make
war. But as the different rights which constitute this power,
originally resident in the body of the nation, may be separated
or limited, according to the will of the nation, we are to seek the
power of making war in the particular Constitution of each State."
And Bacon (Ab. Tit. Prerogative) says: "It is intexjura suimi
ihaerii,and in England is lodged in the King; though, as my
L3rd Hale says, it ever succeeds best when done by parliamentary advice."
The counsel for the United States, speaking for the President,
take very bold and very alarming positions upon this question.
One of them testifies, in well-considered rhetoric, his amazement
that a judicial tribunal should be called upon to determine
whether the political power was authorized to do what it has
clone. He is astounded that he should be required to "ask per
mission of your Honors for the whole political power of the
Government to exercise the ordinary right of self-defence." He
Lictures to himself how the world will b6 appalled when it finds
that "one of our Courts" has decidet that "the wax is at an end."
He tells us that this is merely a Prize Court, and that the Prize
Court sits "by commission of the sovereign," merely as "an
inquest to ascertain whether the capture has been made according to the will and intent of the sovereign." That, all the world
over, the Courts merely construe the acts of the political power.
That war is only "a state of things." It is the conflict of opposing forces, with guns and swords and bayonets, in large numbers; and the Executive power being actually engaged in such
conflict, war exists conclusively for this "one of our Courts,"
sitting by "commission of the sovereign."
Another of the learned counsel tells us that "the sovereign

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.
has assumed the responsibility. His Prize Court has no corn
mission to thwart his purpose, or overrule his construction of
the law of nations." And he added a significant admonitionthat if "the pure and simple function of the Prize Court be
transcended, then the Court is no longer a Court of the sovereign, but an ally of the enemy."
What place is this, where such thoughts are uttered? If the
question were asked literally, and the dull walls of this old
Senate Hall could comprehend and answer, they would give
back in echoes the voices of departed patriots and statesmen"this place is sacred to the Constitution of the United States."
But what tribunal is this? Is it "one of our Courts ?" Doek
it sit "by commission o[ the sovereign ?" Who is its sovereign?
and what is its commission? It acknowledges the same sovereign, and none other, that is sovereign of the President and of
Congress-the "respective States," and "the people" thereof
It has the same commission, and none other, which gives
authority to the President and to Congress-the Constitution.
It arose at the creation of this Government, coeval and co-ordi
nate with the Executive and Legislature, independent of eithe,
Or both. More. it was charged with the sublime trust and dut 3
of sitting in judgment upon their acts, for the protection of the
rights of individuals and of States, whenever "a case" should
come before it, as this has come, challenging the Constitutional
authority of such acts.
This is a Government created, defined, and limited by a
writtev Constitution, every article, clause, and expression in
which was pondered and criticised, as probably no document in
the affairs of men was ever before tested, refined, and ascertained. It is the office of this Court, as an organic clement of
the Government, to construe this Afagna CGharta, and to bring all
cases which come before it to this test. So that, as well by the
peculiar quality of this Court, as by the clear doctrine of the
law of nations, the question is here to be put and answered, was
there war? Not, was there "a state of things" involving in point
of fact all the deadly machinery, and all "the pomp and.circum.
stan " of war; but, had "the sovereign power of the State

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Prize Oases.

declared war; declared that it should exist, or that, by the act
of an enemy, it did already exist; war with its legal incidents
municipal and international?
In this first great experiment of a written Constitution, of
course it was explicitly and exclusively declared, in words as
plain as language affords, where this tremendous power should
reside. To Congress is entrusted the power "to declare war,
grant letters of marque and reprisal, and make rules concerning
captures on land and water." Art. I., sec. 8, par. 11.
It is not pretended that at the time of this so-called capture,
Congress had declared that there should be war, or that war
existed, or had in any manner dealt with the question of war.
The "state of things" which the counsel for the Government
call "war," had arisen in vacation. But the Constitution had
expressly provided for this case, and plainly distinguished it
from " war." This necessity for national defence or offence, by
military force, might arise by "insurrection or invasion." The

former is domestic, the latter foreign vioience. But even in this
latter case, namely, an invasion by a foreign nation, in itself an
act of war by that nation, the Constitution did not departfrom
its inexorable rule that the country could only be involved in
the legal consequences of war by Act of Congress. It contemplated temporary measures by the Executive. It authorized
Congress "to jyrovide for callingforth the militia to execute the laws
of the Union, suppress insurrections,and REPEL INVASIONS." Art.

I., sec. 8, par. 15. So that, side by side, the two cases are distinctly provided for; the power to suppress insurrections and
repel invasions, which Congress might delegate to the President
by a general law (as it didO; and&the power to put the country
in the state of war, which wa: limited to Congress alone, acting
upon the articular case.
But it hasbeen aihintained that the Acts of Congress passed
subseqi6ently to' thds " seizures, h Ve by retroaction recognized
and validated a prfviou's state of war. This is utterly incon
sisten with the ide& of a Goiefnment created by written Con
stitution. To affirm that when a careful and scrupulous distri.
bution of powers has been made between the three great depart

SUPREME

COURT.

Prize Cases.
ments of free Government, either one may exercise the powers
of the other, and that a subsequent cession or approval by the
competent power will validate the act, is to convert the Constitution into a mere shadow. The maxim between private principal and agent, "omnis ratihibitio," &c., cannot apply. The
supposed " ratihibitio" is not by the principal who speaks in the
Constitution, but by another agent of the principal having no
right to delegate the special power. The matter then comes
back necessarily to the pure question of the power of the President under the Constitution. And this is, perhaps, the most
extraordinary part of the argument for the United States. It is
founded upon a figure of speech, which is repugnant to the
genius of republican institutions, and, above all, to our written
Constitution. It makes the President, in some sort, the impersonation of the country, and invokes for him the power and
right to use all the force he can command, to "save the life of the
nation." The principle of self-defense is asserted; and all power
is claimed for the President. This is to assert that the Constitution contemplated and tacitly provided that the President should
be dictator, and all Constitutional Government be at an end,
whenever he should think that "the life of the nation" is in
danger. To suppose that this Court would desire argument
.gainst such a notion, would be offensive.
It comes to the plea of necessity. The Constitution knows no
such word. When it pronounced its purpose "to form a perfect
Union, establish justice, secure domestic tranquillity, provide for
the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the
blessings of liberty to ourselves An4 our posterity," it declared
that to these ends the people did "ordain and establish (his...CJostitution," In this form, and by these means, and b.
dA tri
bution of powers, and not otherwise, did, they piovide for these
ends; and they excluded all others. Any.-other means and
powers are not Constitutional, but revolutionary.
The whole matter comes, then, to a few propositions. To
justify this condemnation, there must have been war at the time
of this so-ca.Ued capture; not war as the old essayists describe
i% beginning with -the war between Cain and Abel; not a fight

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

โข649

Prize Cases.
between two, or between thousands; not a conflict carried on
with these or those weapons, or by these or those numbers of
men; but war as known to international law-war carrying
with it the mutual recognition of the opponents as belligerents;
giving rise to the right of blockade of the enemy's ports, and
affecting all other nations with the character of neutrals, until
they shall have mixed themselves in the contest. War, in this,
the only sense important to this question, is matter of law, arid
not merely matter of fact.
But the Constitution, providing specially not only for armed
opposition to the law, and for insurrection, (embracing its largest
proportions,) but also for invasion by a foreign enemy, treats as
totally distinct the question of war. It contemplates all these
contingencies. For the execution of the law, for insurrection,
and for invasion, (an act of war,) Congress provided.by the Acts
of 1792, 1795, and 1807.
For the case of war, that is, to put the country in a state of
war, with the municipal and international incidents of war, Congress did not provide; because the Constitution confided- that
case to Congress, as exclusively and without power of delegation, as it granted the judicial power to this Court and such
inferior tribunals as Congress might create. Congress had not
declared war to begin, or to exist already, at the date. in ques
tion. Therefore, war did not exist; blockade did not exist;
and there could be no captuie for breach of blockade, or inteni
to break it.
The power of the Executive -in respect of insurrectiona and
invasion is derived from the Constitution, and cannot transcend
the limits and provisions imposed by that instrument. The
President is Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy. He
may use these forces in case of opposition to the laws, insurrec.
tion, or invasion, as Congress has provided. But when he has
thus used the whole force of the nation, he has only used a
power which Congress is authorized to confer upon. him in the
special cases enumerated in the Constitution. War is reserved
to the judgment of Congress itself, upon the actual case arisen.
The idea of retroaction, validating the usurpation of authority-

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.
is incompatible with the theory of this Government, founded
upon a written Constitution distributing with exactness the
powers which it confers.
Mr. Dana. The case of the Amy Warwick presents a single
question, which may be stated thus: At the time of the capture,
was it competent for the President to treat as prize of war property found on the high seas, for the sole reason that it belonged
to persons residing and doing business in Richmond, Virginia?
There are certain propositions applicable to war with acknow
ledged foreign nations, which must first be estallished. An
examination of the reasons on which those propositions resv
will aid in determining whether the propositions are also appli
cable to internal wars. The general rule may be stated thus:
Property found on the high seas, subject to the ownership
and control of persons who themselves reside in the territory of
the enemy, and thus subject to the jurisdiction and control of
the enemy, is liable to capture as prize of war. (Wheaton's Int.
Law, 429, 400); (1 Kent's Comm. 56-60, 74-77); (3 Phillimore's
Int. Law, ยง 85, 483, 484); Halleck's Int. Law, 470-2, 701); The
Amy Warwick, (24 Law Rep., 335); The Amy Warwick, (24 Law
Rep., 494); Venus, (8 Or. 280); Sally, (8 Or. 384); Frances,(8
Cr. 363); Bella quidita, (1 Rob. 207); Gerasimo, (11 Moore Pr.
C.86; Aina,(38 Eng. Law7 & Eq. R. 600); Abo, (29 Eng. Law &
Eq. R. 594); lndustrie, (33 Eng. Law & Eq. R. 572); Ida,
(Spinke's R. 33); Baltic, (11 Moore's Pr. C. 111); Brown vs.
United States, 8 Cranch, 110), The Hallis Jackson, (Bettq, J.);
The IV. Carolina, (Betts, J.); Pioneer, (kBetts, J.); Crenshaw,
(Betts, J.); Gen. Green, (Betts, J.); Chester, (2 Dall. 41); Thirty
hdds. sugar, (9 Cr. 191); Betsey, (2 Or. 64); Afailey vs. Shatuck
(3 Cr. 488); Livingstone vs. H. L Co., (7 Or. 506); Escott, k1 Rob.
'203, n.); Lady Jane, (Rob., 202); Hoop, (1 Rob., 198); Indian
( %ief,(3 Rob., 12): Danous, (4 Rob., 255 n.); Anna Catherina,
(4 Rob., 107); President, (5 Rob., 277); The HMaco, (Grier, J.);
The Marathon, (Grier, J.); The Amelia, (Grier, J.); Edw
Ba7rd, (Betts, J.); S. Independence, (Sprague J.); Victoria

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

651

Prize Cases.
(Sprague, J.); Charlotte, (Sprague, J.); Gen. ParkhiU, (Cad.
walader, J.)
The above cases will be found to sustain the following propo.
Arions which I suppose will not be controverted, as applicable
t,,
cases of war with a recognized foreign power, and therefore
are not elaborated.
F'hst, It is immaterial in such case, whether the owner of the
property has or has not taken part in the war, of given aid or
comfort to the enemy, under whose power he resides.
,Srecondl. It is immateria" whether he be or be not, by birth or
naturalization, a citizen or subje.ct of the enemy; and if he be,
whether he be loyal to his sovereign, or in sympathy with and
actually aiding the capturing power.
Third. He may be a subject of a neutral sovireign. He may
even be a special and privileged residefit, as consul of a neutral
power. Still, if property subject to his ownership and control,
while he so resides, is found at sea, engaged in commerce, thoughit be lawful commerce with neutrals, it comes under the rule.
Its capture is one of the justifiable modes of coercing the enemy
with whom he resides.
Fourth. The owner may even be a citizen of the country
making the capture; and there may be'no evidence that he is
disloyal to his own country, or that his residence with thE
enemy is not accidental or forcible. These are immaterial in
quiries. The loss to him is immaterial, in the judicial point of
view. The recoghized right to coerce the enemy power affects
the property, as it was situated when captured. The Court can
look no farther. It is a political question whether the exercise
of the right shall be insisted on.
Fifth. It is not necessary to show that the property in the
particular case, if not captured, or if restored, would in fact have
benefitted the enemy, and that its capture would tend to the
injury of the encmy. The laws of war go by general rules.
Property in a certainpredicament is condemned, the general rule
being founded on the experience and concession ihat property
so situated is or may be useful to the enemy in the war, and that

SUPREME, COURT.
Prize Cases.

the rights of neutrals and the dictates of humanity do not forbid
its capture.
Sixth. It is not necessary that the property shall be at the
time on a voyage to or from the enemy's country. The reason
for the rule ordinarily seems stronger where the voyage is
directly to the enemy's country, so that but for the capture it
would have been actually subject to his control. But the rule
is the same, wherever the vessel is bound. We have a right to
prevent commerce and its gains on the part of persons residing
in the territory of the enemy. And if the owner is friendly to
the power under which he lives; the proceeds, subject to order
in a foreign port, may be especially useful to that power.
I will now proceed to an examination of the reasons on which
the preceding propositions rest, and afterwards consider whether
those reasons are not equally applicable to an internal war.
WAR is simply the exercise of force by bodies politic, or
bodies assuming to be bodies politic, against each other, for the
purpose of coercion. The means and modes of doing this are
called belligerent powers. The customs and opinions of modern
civilization have recognized certain modes of coercing the power
you are acting against as justifiable. Injury to private persons
or their property is avoided as far as it reasonably can be.
Wherever private property is taken or destroyed, it is because
it is of such a character, or so situated, as to make its capture a
justifiable means of coercing the power with which you are at
war. For war is not upon the theory of punishing individuals
for offences, on the contrary (except for violations of rules of
war), it ignores jurisdiction, penalties and crimes, and is only a
system of coercion of the power you are acting against.
If, then, the hostile power has title or direct interest in the
property, as if it is public property, it is, of course, liable to
capture.
If thba property is of a character ordinarily used in war, and
in the possession of that power, or on its way to his possession,
it is liable to capture. In such case it is immaterial in whom is
the title.
The hostile power has an interest in the private property of

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

653

Prize Cases.
all persons living within its limits or control; for such property
is a subject of taxation, contribution, confiscation and use, -with
or without compensation. But the humanity of modern times
has abstained from the taking of private property not liable to
use in war, when on land. Some of the reasons for this, are.
the infinite varieties of its character, the difficulty of discrimi
nating among these varieties, the need of much of it to support
the life of non-combatant persons and animals, and, above all,
the moral dangers attending searches and captures in households.
But on the high seas, these reasons do not apply. Strictly
personal effects are not taken. Merchandise sent to sea, is sent
voluntarily, embarked by merchants on an enterprise of profit
taking the risks, is in the custody of men trained and paid foi
the business, and its value is usually capable of compensation in
money. The sea is res omnium. It is the common field of war,
as well as of commerce. The Abject of maritime commerce is
the enriching of the owner by the transit over the common field;
and it is the most usual object of revenue to the power under
whose government the owner resides.
For these and other reasons, the rule of coercion by 'apture is
applied to private pr6perty at sea. "Ifthe power with which you
are at war has such an interest in its transit,arrival or existence, as
to make its capture one of the fair modes of coercioiz, you may take
it. The reason why you may capture it is that it is a-justifiable
mode of coercing the power with which you are at war. The fact
which makes it a justiflable mode of coercing that power, is that the
owner is residing under his jurisdictionand control.
It is therefore evident, from this course of"reasoning, that the
capture in case of enemy property does not rest at all on any actual
or constructive criminality or hostility of the owner., Suppose him
to be a neutral, he has a right to reside with ybur enemy, and
trade to and from thence, as against all your laws and the laws
of war. If he is a loyal subject of your. own, and is accidentally
or forcibly detained in your enemy's country, and even is
struggling to get away, his property is liable to capture, on this
general principle. It is for the pcilitic., power alone to say
whether it will forego the condemnation The Courts must

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.
adjudicate it to be a lawful prize. If he be a born and willing
subject of your enemy. your right to capture is none the greater
nor is the legal reason for the capture different, though the
reason may be more gratifying to the moral sense, and the
capture more satisfactory. If the trader residing there is suspected
of disaffection to that power, and of affection for you, his property
is all the more likely to be subjected to contributions, if not
actual confiscation by your enemy. He is not his own master,
still less the master of his property. He. and it are under your
enemy's jurisdiction and control. You may capture it and
refuse to restore it to the claimant, while he so resides and the
war lasts, even if you compensate or remunerate him afterwards
But that is a political question. The Courts can only condemn
it, if the political power asks for its condemnation.
Such being the rules applicable to external wars, and such
the reasons on which the rules rest, we come to the question
whether they are not equally applicable to internal wars?
But, first, the following general rule is established on
authority.
In internal wars, it is competent for the sovereign to exercise
belligerent powers generally. Rose vs. Himely, (4 Cranch, 272);
Cherriot vs. Foussett, (3 Binney, 253); Dobrie vs. Xapier, (3
Scott, 225); Santissima Trinidad, (7 Wheat., 306); United States
vs. Palmer, (3 Wheat., 635); (Wheaton's International Law, p.
363, 5); (Grotius de Jure Belli, Prol. sec. 25); Burlamaqui, (N.
& P. L., 263); 2 Rutherf. Inst., 503); (Hhy & Marriot. 47, 23,
197, 216, 78, 9-4, 83): Bynk, L. of W., (3 Hall's L. J., p. 11); The
Admiral, (Grier, J., Law Int., Sep. 19, 1862); The Mfarathon,
(Grier, J.); The Afeaco, (Grier, J.); The Amelia, (Grier, J.); Amy
Warwick, (24 Law Rep., 335, 494); Gen. Parkhill,(Cadwalader,
J.); Tropic T ind, (Dunlop, J.); iawatha,ifallis Jackson, Crenshaw, . Carolina,etc., (Betts, J.)
None of the above cited cases make any distinction among
belligerent powers, but treat them all as equally open to the
sovereign in case of internal war.
The reasons on which the rules respecting belligerent powers
rest, are applicable to internal wars as well as to external wars

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

65

Prize Cases.
(1.) The object of the sovereign is to coerce the power which
is organized against him, and making war upon him.
(2.) This power exercises jurisdiction and control de facto, and
claims it de jure over the territory. It compels obedience, and
exacts allegiance from all inhabitant, of the territory, without
respect to their wishes. It compels each inhabitant to pay taxes
and imposts upon his property, to aid in the war, and makes his
property liable to contribution or confiscation. This power
therefore has the same interest in the merchandise of an inhabitant of the territory at sea, for the purposes of the war, as if it
were an acknowledged sovereign. And the parent state has the
same interest in the capture of the property, for the purpose of
coercing the rebel power.
(3.) The right of the sovereign to capture it jure belli, is not
ierived from any actual or presumed disloyalty or criminalityof
the owner. It is equally immaterial, as in a foreign war, whether
the owner is a citizen, alien or friend. Whether in other
respects he has taken part in the war, or on which side.
Whether the rebel power considers him faithful' to them, or
suspects him, or has him in prison as a traitor. The test and
the reason is the predicament of the property.
(4.) If the owner was hostile to the defacto government under
which he lives, and they had actually declared the property in
question to be confiscated, before its capture, it would not be
doubted that it was subject to capture. But their laws and
rules respecting allegiance, obedience, contribution, confiscation
and taxation, govern-and affect this property, in fact (although,
the sovereign will not admit dejure), so long as it is out of the
actual custody and control of the parent sovereign.
(5.) It does not follow from his residence* that the owner of
the property in civil wars, owes general allegiance to the sovereign. 'He may be an alien, or even a mercenary soldier, or a
political agent of some power that. has recognized the rebels as
a nation.
(6.) Suppose a part. of a sovereign's dominions are wrested
from him in public war, a-ii his enemy establishes a eivil as
well as military government, over it, and claims it as -his own.

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.
and the local authorities and a majority of the inhabitants
acquiesce in the new dynasty, and it is established de facto; can
it be doubted that it is competent for the sovereign to capture'
property of its inhabitants, at sea, as a means of'corcion of the
power possessing it ?
It is still a political question with the sovereign, whether he
will capture such property, and if condemned, whether, after q
peace, he will compensate the owner, on proof of merit.
I will now consider certain objections made to the application
to internal wars of the doctrine of enemy's property.
(1.) It is objected that the exercise of this power is inconsisten
with the claim to civil jurisdiction over the owner.
Not more so than in foreign war. There the property of.a
subject is liable to capture, if it is in a certain predicament, e. g.
if it is the peculiar product of enemy territory, and exported
thence, or if the owner resides (however unwillingly) in the
enemy's territory and under his jurisdiction.
(2.) It is objected that so the property of a loyal citizen may
be condemned.
Not more so, than inforeign war. The property in the given
predicament may belong to a loyal friend and subject, or an
indifferent neutral. It is a political question whether the right
shall be exerted over all such property, on reasons of general
policy, or whether exceptions shall be made in case the owner
so resident is loyal to us, or sympathizes with us.
(It is worthy of remark that the sovereign can exercise these
belligerent powers at first, if ever. The lapse of time gives him
no new rights of war. The recognition of the rebel state as
belligerent by foreign powers, confers no right on the sovereign.
It only recognizes an existing right. The recognition of rebel
States as sovereign by foreign powers, confers on .the sovereign
no new war power. The moment he ceases to claim jurisdiction
over the rebel territory, the war ceases to be a civil war, and
becomes an international war.
The objections really amount to this, that war powers can never
be exercised in civil wars, at any stage, except by the rebels.
According to this theory, if the civil war is one in which each

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Prize Cases.
party claims to be the state, neither can exercise belligerent
powers. If neither makes that claim, both may exercise them.
If one claims to be the state, and the other does not, (as in this
case,) the latter only can exercise them.)
(3.) It is contended that if the owner is a traitor, his property
is exempt from confiscatioh by the Constitution. Art. 3, see. 3
and the Act 1790, ch. 9, sec. 24.
But there is no allegation or evidence that the claimants of
this property are traitors. The Government has never treated
or proceeded against them as such. And if they be traitors,
they Pannot compel the Government to -proceed against them by
indictment as traitors, and bring them within the clause of the
Constitution. It cannot be admitted that the clause of the Constitution would exempt their personal property from confisca
tion, by proof on their part, of the commission of treason'by
them, if they were not proceeded against as traitors.
(4.) If it is objected that a traitor cannot personally be treated
as a belligerent, or as levying war, I answer tlhat the Constitu
tion not only contemplates that treason may take the form of
war, but confines treason, under our laws, to acts of such
character and magnitude as amount to "levying war against thb
United States," or aiding those who are -so levying war. Con
stitution, art. 3, sec. 3.
Having then established the position that in internal wars
the sovereign may exercise belligerent powers, and that captures
on the high seas on the ground of enemy's property form no ex
ception to the rule, and, are equally open to him with other
powers, we come to consider what must be the condition of
territory on which the owner resides to make his property
enemy's property within the meaning of the law of prizes.
First. What is the rule in the case of external wars?
It is not necessary that the residence should be within the
regular dominions of the enemy,. as they were when the wax
began, or as -they shall have since been established by treaty or
public law.
It is sufficient if the territory is in the permanent occupation
VOl II.
42

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.
of the enemy, who has established himself there, not avowedly
For temporary purposes, but to hold so long as war shall enable
him to hold it. If the enemy has established a civil and mili.
tary government over it, and claims and exacts allegiance from
all inhabitants, levies taxes, &c., the case admits of n-o doubt.
(erasimo, (11 Moore Pr. C. 101, cases there cited); U. States vs.
Rice, (4 Wheat. 246); The Aeaco, (Grier, J.); Amy Warwick,
(Sprague, J., 24 Law Rep., 335); Thirty hhds. sugar, (9 Cr. 191.)
The principles will be found fully discussed in the case of the
(erasimo, supra.
The reason of the rule is this: The property must either be
condemned or restored to the claimant. If restored, it goes
under his legal control. He is a resident of the enemy's country,
and this property, so restored, would go into the control of the
enemy and add to his resources. The object of maritime capture
is to straiten and reduce the enemy's means and resources. Ex.
gr. if this ship had been permitted to go to Richmond, she and
her cargo would have paid duties to the rebel government.
They could have taken the vessel for military purposes. They
could have taken the cargo for military necessities, with or without compensation as they should see fit. If they regarded the
owner as an enemy, they cot,'d take it as a prize of war, or by
way of confiscation.
(The law of prize of war, which condemns property that even
by misfortune of a friendly owner, is impressed with a hostile
character, or is going, when captured, into enemy's control, or
will so go if restored, must not be confounded with municipal
forfeiture or confiscation, which is usually penal or punitive for
some offence of the owner.)
These reasons show that they are equally applicable to internal
wars. The test is whether the residence of the owner is under the
eslablished de facto jurisdictionand control of the enemy.
In the Castine case, (U. . vs. Rice, supra) there can be no
doubt that it was competent for our Government to capture a
vessel bound into that port in that stateof things, and belonging
to a person residing there, mithout reference to whether he was

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
"Prize Cases.
as to his general political allegiance, a citizen of the United
States, or a neutral alien, or a British subject.
It is not necessary to draw a fine line as to what is-to be
deemed enemy's territory, for the purpose of deciding this case,
-if the above principles are applicable to internal war. I sup
pose it will be conceded that the nature and character of the
occupation of Richmond, Va., was more than sufficient to con
stitute it enemy's territory, within the meaning of the rule.
We are now brought to another branch of the question before
the Court. Conceding that the Sovereign may exercise belligerent powers in internal wars, and that capture on the ground
of enemy's property is amoftg those powers, and that Richmond
was enemy's territory-it is still contended that under our Constitution, the exercise of these powers was not made by the
proper authorities, and in the proper state of things.
It is contended that the President cannot exercise war powers
until Congress shall first have "declared war," or, at least, done
some act recognizing that a case exists for the exercise of war
powers, and of what war powers.
There is nothing in the distribution of powers under our Constitution which makes the exercise of this war power illegal, by
reason of the -authority under which this capture was made.
I. It is not necessary to the exercise of war powers by the
President, in a case of foreign war, that. there should be a preceding act of Congress declaring war.
The Constitution gives to Congress the power to "declare
war."
But there are two parties to a war. War is a state of things,
and not an act of legislative will. If a foreign power springs a
war upon us by sea and land, during a recess of Congress, exercising all belligerent rights of capture, the question is, whether
the President can repel war with war, and make prisoners and
prizes by the army, navy and militia which he has called into
service and employed to repel the invasion, in pursuance of
general acts of Congress, before Congress can meet? or whether
that wofild be illegal?'
In tbe ease of the Mexican war, there was only a subsequent

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.
gcreonition of a state of war by Congress; yet all the prior acts
of the President were lawful acts of war.
It is enough to state the proposition. If it be not so, there is
no protection to the State.
The question is not what would be the result of a conflict
between the Executive and Legislature, during an actual invasion
by a foreign enemy, the Legislature refusing to declare war.
But it. is as to the power of the President before Congress shall
have acted, in case of a war actually existing. It is not as to
the right to initiate a war, as a voluntary act of sovereignty. That
is vested only in Congress.
II. In case of civil war, the President may, in the absence of
any Act of Congress on the subject, meet the war by the exer.
cise of belligerent maritime capture.
The same overwhelming reasons of necessity govern this
position, as the preceding.
This position has been recognized by every Court into whik-h
the prize causes have been brought in this country, by Judge
Dunlop, the District of Columbia; Judge Giles, in Marylanl;
Judge Marvin, in Florida; Judge Betts, in New York; Judg;e
Sprague, in Massachusetts; Ju Ige Cadwalader, in Pennsylvania.
There are general Acts of Congress clothing the President
with power to use the army and navy to suppress insurrections.
Act 1795, ch. 36, see. 2; Act 1807, ch. 39.
And it must be admitted that the function of using the army
and navy for that purpose is an Executive function. But it is
contended that before they are used as belligerent powers,
before captures can be made, on grounds of blockade and enemy
property, Congress must pass upon the case, and determine
whether the powers shall be exerted.
Now, if Congress must so adjudge in the first instance, why
not throughout the war? Civil wars change their character,
from day to day and place to place. Congress should' be a
council of war in perpetual session, to determine when, how
long, and how far this or that belligerent right shall be exerted.
The function to use the army and navy being in the Presi
dent, the mode of using them, within the rules of civilized war-

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

661

Prize Cases.
fare, and subject to established laws of Congress, must be subject
to his discretion as a necessary incident to the use, in the absence
of any Act of Congress controlling him.
IMl. There were no Acts of Congress at the time of this
capture (July 10, 1861,) in any way controlling this discretion
of the President.
IV. Since the capture, Congress has recognized the validity
of these acts of the President.
The Act Aug. 6, 1861, ch. 63, sec. 3, legalizes, among other
things, the proclamations, acts and orders of the President
respecting the navy. This includes the blockades, and the
orders respecting captures.
The Act March 25, 1862, ch. 50, regulating prize proceedings,
in sec. 5, recognizes prize causes as "now pending" in the
Courts.
The proclamations make the blockades belligerent acts, and
not municipal surveillance. They are declared to be 'in pur.
suance of the law of nations," and guaranteed to be made effective
and actual, and provision is made for warning.
They had been always treated as blockades under the laws
of war, by the Executive, by the Courts and by neutral powers,
before the passage of this Act.
Act July 17, 1862, ch. 204, sec. 12, recognizes prize causes as
now pending, and regulates them; and recognizes decrees, of
condemnation in pending cases.
The Resolution of July 17, 1862 (No. 65), regulates the eustody
of prize money now in the Registry of the Courts.When these acts were passed, Congress knew thiat great
numbers of captures had been made, solely on the ground of
"enemy property ;" that the President had, through the several
U. S. Attorneys, asked for their condemnation; that they had
been condemned, solely on that ground, in all the chief districts;
,that nondemnation on that ground had been refused in none;
and that the proceeds of prizes condemned as enemy property
were in tho Treasury awaiting distribution.
All the acts for the increase of the army and navy, and for
raising volunteers, speak o" this state of things as a "war."

682

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.

It is contended that the Act of July, 1861, ch. 3, sees. 5
and 6, is an action by Congress on the subject, inconsistent with
condemnation of this property.
.
To this, I reply :
I. The capture, in this case, was before the passage of the act.
The statute does not retroact.
It is an established rule to interpret statutory law as taking
effect from its passage, not as varying the law or its administra
tion by retroactive operations. lfatthews vs. Zane, (7 Wheat.,
211); 1 Kent's Com., 455, notes.
The statute does not in its terms contemplate a retroactive
effect, but rather the reverse. Congress at the time of passing
it knew that the President had exercised, as of right, full bel]i
gerent power to capture at sea on all the recognized grounds of
war,-contraband, breach of blockade, and enemy property;
and that the Courts were entertaining prize jurisdiction on those
grounds.
Under such circumstances, if Congress intended to make void
all those acts, it should be expressed in terms, unless it were
necessarily and unavoidably the result of the statute, construed
with all the established presurmptions against retroaction.
All the Courts of the United States which have acted on prize
causes since the passage of the act, have construed it as not
retroactive.
II. There is no inconsistency in Congress, declining to act on
the exercise of war powers by the President in the past, and at
the same time naking new and special provisions, qualifying or
altering the mode of ex6rcising those powers after a future
event.

111. To give it a retroactive effect, would render this statute
inconsistent with the Act of August 6th, 1861, ch. 63, sec. 3.
IV. The Act of 13th of August, 1861, does not relate to belligerent captures and prizes. It provides for civil forfeitures and
confiscations, in the exercise of civil jurisdiction.
(1.) The terms " captures" and "prize " are not used. The
terms are "seizure," "forfeiture," and "confiscation." The former
are terms of war, the latter, of civil proceedings. Park on I=s.

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

663

Pnze Cases.
o. 4, p. 73, 2 Arnould on Ins. ยง 803, Richarson vs. KJ F dF
.M. I. Co., (6 Mass., 108), Constitution of United States, Art. 1,
see. 8, Higguison vs. Pomeroy, (11 Mass., 110), Blacc vs. Harune . Co., (11 Johns., 292), Thompson vs. Reed, (12 S. & R.,
443), Halleck's Int. Law ch. 12, ยง 14, Halleck's Int. Gov., c. 30;
Rhmelander vs. . Co. of Pa.. (4 Cr., 42, 44), Carrznglonvs. Merch.
I. Co., (8 Pet., 518, 519); Bracdstreet vs. Neptune I. Co., (3 Sumner,
605, 616), Davson vs. Seal Skins, (2 Paine, 324).
(2.) The Secretary of the Treasury has full powers of remission of the "forfeitures," as in revenue cases, under Act of 1797
ch. 13, vol. 1, p. 506. This he may do, by general regulations
of the Treasury Department. This is-unknown to prize or
belligerent proceedings, and inapplicable to them.
(3.) Sec. 9 gives jurisdiction over the "forfeitures," to certain
Courts, which would be unnecessary if these were cases of prize.
(4.) The prize laws give an interest to the captors. Under
this statute, the title rests in the United States by "forfeiture."
(5.) Sec. 6 introduces a- principle unknown to prize law, to
wit That the whole vessel is condemned, on the sole ground
that the owner of a part resided in enemy's territory. Congress
can hardly have intended that.
That such is the true constructionof the section, appears from
the debates at the time of its passage.
This construction has been put upon it by the Courts, and the
Treasury has adopted it, and authorized a remission of the for
felture of the shares -owned by residents in loyal States, under
certain circumstances.
The true construction of the act, I respectfully submit to be
this
.It is not an act specially providing for the present
rebellion
or, in terms, alluding to it. It is a general act, applicable to all
times, and to rebellions or civil wars, of every possible character.
The President might or might not, at his option, apply it to the
present rebellion by issuing or not his proclamation. The act is
applicable, at the 'option of any President, to a rebellion which
is carned n under State authority, and it is applicable to no
other.

SUPREM,1E COURT.
Prize Cases.
Property may often bo so situated as to become the subject
both of condemnation as prize of war, and forfeiture by civil
law. In that case, the prize law has the precedence. The casee
of the Rapid, St. Lawrence, Alexander, and Joseph, in (1 Galli
son's Rep.)
In further proof that this statute was not intended to 2stab
lish or regulate or modify or affect the law of prize, it is observable that it touches small portions of entire matters over which
the President had been exercising the right of belligerent capture, and has exercised them still without objection by Congress.
Sec. 6 does not forfeit vessels of persons residing in the rebel
States, if found in the ports of those States. A rebel man-ofwar could not be forfeited under that act if found in their own
ports, nor if found elsewhere, if the title was in a neutral or a
citizen of a loyal State. (Nor could it be condemned under the
Act of August 6th, 1861, unless the owner of the vessel know
ingly allowed it to be used in the war.)
Sec. 5 forfeits no property unless passing between the designated States and the other States. If found in the rebel States,
or passing between rebel States, it is not forfeited, even if it be
contraband of war. (Nor would it be forfeited if found there,
under the Act of August 6th, 1861, unless the owner had knowingly allowed it to be used in the war.) If found at sea, passing
between two rebel States, or bctween a rebel State and a neutral
port, it would escape. Under this statute, no property could be
seized for breach of blockade, unless passing between a rebel
and a loyal State; no vessel could be seized for breach of blockade unless it was not only passing between a rebel and a loyal
State. but carrying cargo; and the fact that the property was
contraband would not forfeit it or the vessel carrying it, if it
was bound -from a neutral port.
That the rebellion had come to a state requiring the exercise
by us of the war powers of blockade and capture, has. been
passed upon by the political department of the Government,by both the Executive and Legislative branches. That is conelusive on the Courts. President's proclamations of April 15,
April 19, 1861, and April 27, May 3, 1861; Acts of Congress

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Prize Cases.
Aug. 6, 1861, oh. 63, see. 3; March 25, 1862, ch. 50; and July
17. 1862, ch. 234, sec. 12.
Whether a particular place, which the owner of the vessel
inhabits, is enemy's territory, is for the Court to decide. The
Gerasirno,(11 Moore, Pr. 0., 101).
If the political department of the Government has decided
that question, that is, of course, conclusive on the Courts.
If ic has not been passed upon by the political department,
the Court must decide it as a question of fact.
In this case, the political department decided that Richmond
was in enemy territory, on the 10th of July, 1861. Proclamation of April 27, 1861, and Aug. 16, 1861; Act of Congress of
Aug. 6, 1861, oh. 63, see. 3.
We are brought, then, to three propositions:I. The right to capture, on the high seas, the property of
persons residing in the enemy's territory, may be exercised in
internal war.
II.In the present war, that right has been exercised by an
authority which this Court must deem competent.
III. Richmond, Virginia, was enemy's territory, within the
meaning of the law of prize, jure belli, at the time of this capture.
Mr. Justice GRIER. There are certain propositions of law
which must necessarily affect the ultimate decision of these
cases, and many others, which it will be proper to discuss and
decide before we notice the special facts peculiar to each.
.They are, 1st. Had the President a right to institute a blockade
of ports in possession of persons in armed rebellion against the
Go-ernment, on the principles of international law, as known
and acknowledged among civilized States?
2d. Was the property of persons domiciled or residing within
those States a proper subject of capture on the sea as "enemies'
property ?"
I. Neutrals have a right to challenge the existence of a
blockade deJacto, and also the authority of the party exercising
the right to institute it. They have a right to enter the ports

SUPREME

OuURT.

Prize Cases,
of a friendly nation for the purposes of trade and commerce,
but are bound to recognize the rights of a belligerent engaged
in actual war, to use this mode of coercion, for the purpose of
subd uing the enemy.
That a blockade de facto actually existed, and was formaliy
declared and notified by the President on the 27th and 30th of
April, 1861, is an admitted fact in these cases.
That the President, as the Executive Chief of the Government
and Commander-in-chief of the Army and Navy, was the proper
person to make such notification, has not been, and cannot be
disputed.
The right of prize and capture has its origin in the "jus belli,"
and is goverend and adjudged under the law of nations. To
legitimate the capture of a neutral vessel or property on the
high seas, a war must exist de facto, and the neutral must have
a knowledge or notice of the intention of one of the parties
belligerent to use this mode of coercion against a port, city, or
territory, in possession of the other.
Let us enquire whether, at the time this blockade was instituted, a state of war existed which would justify a resort to
these means of subduing the hostile force.
War has been well defined to be, "That state in which a
nation prosecutes its right by force."
The parties belligerent in a public war are independent
nations. But it is not necessary to constitute war, that both
parties should be acknowledged as independent nations or
sovereign States. A war may exist where one of the belligerents, claims sovereign rights as against the other.
Insurrection against a government may or may not culminate
in an organized rebellion, but a civil war always begins by
insurrection against the lawful authority of the Government. A
civil war is never solemnly declared; it becomes such by its
accidents-the number, power, and organization of the persons
who originate and carry it on. When the party in rebellion
occupy and hold in a hostile manner a certain portion of territory; have declared their independence; have cast off their
allegiance; have organized armies; have commenced hostilitiev

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

667

Prize Cases.
against their former sovereign, the world acknowledges them as
belligerents, and the contest a war. They claim to be in arms
t' establish their liberty and independence, in order to become
- sovereign State, while the sovereign party treats them as
misurgents and rebels who owe allegiance, and who should be
punished with death for their treason.
The laws of war, as established among nations, have their
foundation in reason, and all tend to mitigate the cruelties and
misery produced by the scourge of war. Hence the parties to
a civil war usually concede to each other belligerent rights.
They exchange prisoners, and adopt the other courtesies and
rules common to public or national wars.
"A civil war," says Vattel, "breaks the- bands of society and
government, or at least suspends their force and effect; it produces in the nation two independent parties, who consider each
other as enemies, and acknowledge no common judge. Those
two parties, therefore, must necessarily be considered as constituting, at least for a time, two separate bodies, two distinct
societies. Having no common superior to judge between them,
they stand in precisely the same predicament as two nations
who engage in a contest and have recourse to arms.
"This being the case, it is very evident that the common laws
of war-those maxims of humanity, moderation, and honorought to be observed by both parties in every civil war. Should
the sovereign conceive he has a right to hang up his prisoners
as* rebels, the opposite party will make reprisals, &c., &c.; the
war will become cruel, horrible, and every day-more destructive
to the natiofi."
As a civil war is never publicly proclaimed, eo nomine against
insurgents, its actual existence is a fact in our domestic history
which the Court is bound to notice and to know.
The true test of its existence, as found in the writing of the
sages of the common law, may be thus summarily stated:
"When the regular course of justice is interrupted by revolt,
rebellion, or insurrection, so that the Courts of Justice cannot
be kept open, civil war exists and hostilities may be prosecuted

SUPREME COURT.
P7rize Cases.
on the same footing as if those opposing the Government were

foreign enemies invading the land."
By the Constitution, Congress alone has the power to declare
a national or foreign war. It cannot declare war against a
State, or any number of States, by virtue of any clause in the
Constitution. The Constitution confers on the President the
whole Executive-power. He is bound to take care that the laws
be faithfully executed. iHe is Commander-in-chief of the Army
and Navy of the United States, and of the militia of the several
States when called into the actual service of the United States. He
has no power to initiate or declare a war either against a foreign
nation or a domestic State. But by the Acts of 'Congress of
February 28th, 1795, and 3d of March, 1807, he is authorized
to called out the militia and use the military and naval forces
of the United States in case of invasion by foreign nations, and
to suppress insurrection against the government of a State or
of the United States.
If a war be made by invasion of a foreign nation, the President is not only authorized but bound to resist force by force.
He does not initiate the war, but is bound to accept the challenge without waiting for any special legislative authority. And
whether the hostile party be a foreign invader, or States organ
ized in rebellion, it is none the less a war, although the declaration of it be "unilateral." Lord Stowell (1 Dodson, 247) observes,
'I t is not the less a war on that account, for war may exist
without a declaration on either side. It is so laid down by the
best writers on the law of nations. A declaration ot war by one
country only, is not a mere challenge to be accepted or refused
at pleasure by the other."
The battles of Palo Alto and Resaca de la Palma had been
fought beforo the passage of the Act of Congress of May 13th,
1846, which recognized " a state of war as existing by the act ol
411r Republic of Afexico." This act not only provided for the
future prosecution of the war, but was itself a vindication and
ratification of the Act of the President in accepting the challenge
without a previous formal declaration of war by Congress.
This greotest of civil wars was not gradually developed by

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

669

Prize Cases.

popular commotion, tumultuous assemblies, or local unorganized
insurrections. However long may have been its previous con
ception, it nevertheless sprung forth suddenly from the parent
brain, a Minerva in the full panoply of war. The President was
bound to meet it in the shape it presented itself,*ithout waiting
for Congress to baptize it with a name; and no name given to
it by him or them could change the fact.
Itisnot the less a civil war, with belligerent parties in hostile
array, because it may be called an "insurrection" by one side,
and the insurgents be considered as rebels or traitors. It is not
necessary that the independence of the revolted province or
State be acknowledged in order to constitute it a party belligerent in a war apeeording to the law of nations. Foreign nations
acknowledge it as war by a declaration of neutrality. The condition of neutrality cannot exist unless there be two belligerent
parties.

In the case of the Scantissima Trinidad, (7 Wheaton,

337,) this Court say: "The Government of the United States
has recognized the existence of a civil war between Spain and
her colonies, and has avowed her determination to remain
neutral between the parties. Each party is therefore deemed
by us a belligerent nation, having, so far 'as concerns us, the
sovereign rights of war." (See also 3 Binn., 252.)
As soon as the news of the attack on Fort Sumter, and the
organization of a government by the seceding States, assuming
to act as belligerents, could become known in Europe, to wit,
on the 13th of May, 1861, the Queen of England issued-her proclamation of- iieutrality, "recognizing hostilities as -existing
between. the Government of the United States of America and
certain States styling themselves the Confederate States of
America." This was immediately followed by similar declarations or silent acquiescence by other nations.
After such an official recognition by the sovereign, a citizen
of-a foreign State is estopped fo deny the existence of a war
with all its consequences as regards neutrals. They cannot agk
a Court to affect a technical ignorance of the existence of a war,
which all the world acknowledges to be the greatest civil wrar
imown in the history of the human race, and thus cripple the

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.
arm of the Government.and paralyze its power by subtle deflni.
tions and ingenious sophisms.
The law of nations is also called the law of nature; it is
founded on the common consent as well as the common sense
of the world. It contains no such anomalous doctrine as that
which this Court are now for the first time desired to pronounce,
to wit: That insurgents who .have risen in rebellion against
their sovereign, expelled her Courts, established a revolutionary
government, organized armies, and commenced hostilities, are
not enemies because they are traitors; and a war levied on the
Government by traitors, in order to dismember and destroy it,
is not a war because it is an "insurrection."
Whether the President in fulfilling his duties, as Commander
in-chief, in suppressing an insurrection, has met with such
armed hostile resistance, and a civil war of such alarming proportions as will compel him to accord to them the character of
belligerents, is a question to be decided by him, and this Court
must be governed by the decisions and acts of the political
department of the Government to which this power was entrusted. "He must determine what degree of force the crisis
demands." The proclamation of blockade is itself official and
conclusive evidence to the Court that a state of war existed
which demanded and authorized a recourse to such a measure,
under the circumstances peculiar to the case.
The correspondence of Lord Lyons with the Secretary of State
admits the fact and concludes the question.
If it were necessary to the technical existence of a war, that it
should have a legislative sanction, we find it in almost every act
passed at the extraordinary session of the Legislature of 1861,
which was wh:lly employed in enacting laws to enable the
Government to prosecute the war with vigor and efficiency.
And finally, in 1861, we find Congress "ex majore cautekt" and
in anticipation of such astute objections, passing an act "approving, legalizing, and making valid all the acts, proclamations, and
orders of the President, &c., as if they had been issued and done
under the previous express authority and direction of the Congress
of the United States."

.DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Prize Cases.
Without admitting that such an act was necessary under the
circumstances it is plain that if the President had in any manner
assumed powers which it was necessary should have the authority
or sanction of Congress, that on the well known principle of
law, "omnis ratiliabitioretrotrahtituret mandato equiparatur,"this
ratification has operated to perfectly cure the defect. In the
case of Brown vs. United States, (8 Cr., 131, 132, 133,) Mr. Justice
Story treats of this subject, and cites numerous authorities to
which we may refer to prove this position, and concludes, "I
am perfectly satisfied that no subject can commence hostilities
or capture property of an enemy, when the sovereign has prohibited it. But. suppose he did, I would ask if the sovereign
may not ratify his proceedings, and thus by a retroactive opera.
tion give validity to them ?"
Although Mr. Justice Story dissented from the majority of
the Court on the whole case, the doctrine stated by him on this
point is correct and fully substantiated by authority.
The objection made to this act of ratification, that it is expost
facto, and therefore unconstitutio ial and void, might possibly
have some weight on the trial of an indictment in a criminal
Court. But precedents from that source cafinot be received as
*authoritative in a tribunal administering public and international
law.
On this first question therefore we are of the opinion that the
President had a right, jure belli, to institute, a blockade of ports
in possession of the States in rebellion, which neutrals are bound
to regard.
I. We come now to the consiueration of the second question.
What is included in the term "enemies' property?"
Is the property of all persons residing within the territory
of the States n( w in rebellion, captured on the high seas, to be
treated as "enemies' property" whether the owner be in arms
against the Government or not?
The right of one belligerent not only to coerce the other by
direct force, but also to cripple his resources by the seizure or
destruction of his property, is a necessary result of a state of
war. MXioney and wealth, the products of agriculture and corn

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.
.merce, are said to be the sinews of war, and as necessary in ito
conduct as numbers and physical force. Hence it is, that the
laws of war recognize the right of a belligerent to cut these
sinews of the power of the enemy, by capturing his property on
the high .seas.
The appellants contend that the term "enemy" is properly
applicable to those only wo are subjects or citizens of a foreign
State at war with our own. They quote from the pages of the
common law, which say, "that persons who wage war against
the King may be of two kinds, subjects or citizens. The former
are not proper enemies, but rebels and traitors; the latter are
those that come properly under the name of enemies."
They insist, moreover, that the President himself, in his proclamation, admits that great numbers of the persons residing
within the territories in possession of the insurgent government,
are loyal in their feelings, and forced by compulsion and the
violence of the rebellious and revolutionary party and its "de
facto government" to submit to their laws and assist in their
scheme of revolution; that the acts of the usurping government
cannot legally sever the bond of their allegiance; they have,
therefore, a co-relative right to claim the protection of the
government for their persons and property, and to be treated as
loyal citizens, till legally convicted of having renounced their
allegiance and made war against the Government by treasonably
resisting its laws.
They contend, also, that insurrection is the act of individuals
and not of a government or sovefeignty ; that the individuals
engaged are subjects of law. That confiscation of their property
can be -effected only under a municipal law. That by the law
of the land such confiscation cannot take place without the conviction of the owner of some offence, and finally that the secessioD
ordinances are nullities and ineffectual to release any citizen
from his allegiance to the national Government, and consequently that the Constitution and Laws of the United States are
still operative over persons in all the States for punishment as
well as protection
This argument rests on the assumption of two propositions

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

:678

Prize Cases.

each of which is without foundation on the established law of
nations. It assumes that where a civil war exists, the party
belligerent claiming to be sovereign, cannot, for some unknown
reason, exercise the rights of belligerents, although the revolutionary party .may. Being sovereign, he can exercise only
sovereign rights, over the other party. The insurgent may be
killed on the battle-field or by the executioner; his property on
land may be coiifiscated under the municipal law; but the
commerce on the ocean, which supplies the rebels with means
to support the war, cannot be made the subject of capture under
the laws of war, because it is "unconstitutiona' I/" Now, it is
a proposition never doubted, that the belligerent party who
claims to be sovereign, may exercise both belligerent .nd
sovereign rights, (see 4 Or., 272.) Treating the other party as
a belligerent and using only the milder modes of coercion which
the law of nations has introduced to mitigate the rigors of war,
cannot be a subject of complaint by the party to whom it is
accorded as a grace or granted as a necessity. We have shown
that a civil war such as that now waged between the Northern
and Southern States is properly conducted according to the
humane regulations of public law as regards capture on the
ocean.
Under the very peculiar Constitution of this Government,
although the citizens owe supreme allegiance to the Federal
Government, they owe also a qualified allegiance to.the State in
which they are domiciled. Their persons and property are sub.
ject to its laws.
Hence, in organizing this rebellion, they have acted as States
claiming to be sovereign over all persons and property within
their respjective limits, and asserting a right to absolve their citizens from their allegiance to the Federal Government. Several
of these States have combined to form a new confederacy, claiming to be acknowledged by the world as a sovereign State.
Their right to do so is now being decided by w'ager of battle.
The ports and territory of each of these States are held in hostility to the General Government. It is no loose, unorganized
insurrection, having no defined boundary or possession. It has
VOL. I.

-1โข

43

SUP .]EME COURT.
Prize Cases.
a. boundary marked by lines of bayonets, and which can be
crossed only by force-south of this line is enemies' territory,
because it is claimed and held in possession by an organized,
hostile and belligerent power.
All persons residing within this territory whose property may
be used to increase the revenues of the hQstile power are, in this
contest, liable to be treated as enemies, though not foreigners.
They have cast off their allegiance and made war on their
Government, and are none the less enemies because they are
traitors.
But in defining the meaning of the term "enemies' property,"
we will be led into error if we refer to Ffeta and Lord Coke for
their definition of the word "enemy." It is a technical phrase
peculiar to prize courts, and depends upon principles of public
policy as distinguished from the common law.
Whether property be liable to capture as "enemies' property"
does not in any manner depend on the personal allegiance of
the owner. "It is the illegal traffic that stamps it as 'enemies'
property.' It is is of no consequence whether it belongs to an
ally or a citizen. 8 Gr., 384. The owner, pro hac vice, is an
enemy." 3 Wash. C. C. R., 183.
The prodifee of the soil of the hostile territory, as well as
other property engaged in the commerce of the hostile power,
as the source of its wealth and strength, are always regarded as
legitimate prize, without regard to the domicil of the owner, and
much more so if he reside and trade within their territory.
III. We now-proceed to notice the facts peculiar to the several
cases submitted for our consideration. The principles which
have just been stated apply alike to all of them.
I. The case of the brig. Amy Warwick.
This vessel was captured upon the high seas by the United
States gunboat Quaker City, and with her cargo was sent into
the district of Massachusetts for condemnation. The brig was
claimed by David Currie and others. The cargo consisted of
coffee, and was claimed, four hundred bags by Edmund Daven
port & Co., and four thousand seven hundred bags by Dunlap
Moncur6 & Co. The title of these parties as respectively claimed

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

676

Prize Cases.

was conceded. All the claimants at the time of the capture, and
for a long time before, were residents of Richmond, Va., and were
engaged in business there. Consequently, their property was
justly condemned as "enemies' property."
The claim of Phipps & Co. for their advance was allowed by
the Court below. That part of the decree was not appealed from
and is not before us. The case presents no question but that of
enemies' property.
The decree below is afirmed with costs.
IL The case of the Hiawatha.
The Court below in decreeing against the claimants proceeded
upon the ground that the cargo was shipped after notice of the
blockade.
The fact is clearly established, and if there were no qualifying circumstances, would well warrant the decree. But after a
careful examination of the correspondence of the State and Navy
Departments, found in the record, we are not satisfied that the
British Minister erred in the construction he put upon it, which
was that a license was given to all vessels in the blockaded ports
to depart with their cargoes within fifteen days after the blockade was established, whether the cargoes were taken on board
before or after the notice of the blockade. All reasonable doubts
should be resolved in favor of the claimants. Any other course
would be inconsistent with the right administration of the law
and the character of a just Government. But the record discloses another ground upon which the decree muit be sustained.
On the 19th of April the President issued a proclamation
announcing his intention to blockade the ports of the several
States therein named.
On the 27th of April he issued a further proclamation announcing his intention to blockade the ports of Virginia and
North Carolina in addition to those of the States named in the
previous one. On the 30th of April Commodore Pendergrast
issued his proclamation announcing the blockade as established.
These proclamations wer communicated to the British Minister
as soon as they were issued. On the 5th of May the British
Consul at Richrnond wrote to Lord Lyons that he had advised

SUPREME COURT.
rize Cases.

those representing the owners of the Hiawatha that there would
be no difficulty in her leaving in ballast. He added, "but to this
they will not consent." On the 8th of May Lord Lyons made an
Application to the Secretary of State relative to this vessel. The
matter was referred to the Navy Department. On the same day
the Secretary of the Navy replied: "Fifteen days have been
specified as a limit for neutrals to leave the ports after actual
blockade has commence:l, with or without cargo, and there are yet
five or six days for neutrls to leave: with proper diliguce on
the part ofp ersons interested ri e m reasonfor exemption to any."
Here was a distinct warning that the vessel must leave within
the time limited, after the commencement of the blockade. On the

I 0th of May she completed the discharge of her cargo.
On the next day she commenced lading for her outer voyage,
and by working night and day, on the 15th of May she had
taken in a full cargo of cotton and tobacco. On that day the
British Consul gave her a certificate, wherein he referred to the
proclamation of the 27th of April, "in which it was announce!d
that a blockade would be enforced of the ports, of Virginia,"
and added, that "the best information attainable" "pointed to
the 2d of. May as the day when"an efficient blockade was supposed to have been established."
On the 16th of May she was ready for sea, but there was no
steam-tug in port to tow her down the river. At six o'clock,
P. M., on the 17th she was taken in tow by the steam-tug David
Currie. The tug had not sufficient power and the Hiawatha
came to anchor again. On the 18th, at six o'clock, A. M., she
was taken in tow by the steam-tug William Allison and towed
out to sea. On the 20th of May she was captured in Hampton
Roads off Fortress Monroe, and taken with her cargo into the
Southern District of New York for condemnation.
The energy with which the labor of lading her was pressed
evinces the consciousness of those concerned of the peril of
delay beyond the time limited by the proclamation for her depar
ture.

The time was fifteen days from the establishment of the

blockade. The blockade was effectual on the 30th of April.
There is no controversy upon the subject. The fifteen days

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

677

PYie Cases.
expired on the 15th of May-the day she completed her lading.
A vessel being in a blockaded port is presumed to have notice
of the blockade as soon as it commences. This is a settled rule
in the law of nations.
The certificate of the Consul states, that according to his
information the blockade commenced on the 2d of May. It is
not easy to imagine how he could have arrived at this conclusion. The James river is. a great commercial thoroughfare. It.
would oeem that news of so important an event must have swept
up its waters to Richmond, as news of interest spreads along the
streets of a city. Such circumstances must have immediately
become known to the parties as were sufficient to put them upon
inquiry, and were therefore equivalent to full notice. But, conceding the 2d of May to be the day from which the computation
is to be made, then. the fifteen days expired on the 17th of May.
Her voyage down the river was not effectively begun until the
18th of May. This was after the expiration of the time allowed.
In either view she became delinquent, and was guilty of a breach
of the blockade. The proclamation allowed fifteen days-not
fifteen days, and until a steam-tug could be procured. The dif-

ficulty of procuring a tug was one of the accidents which must
have been foreseen and should-have been provided for. Those
concerned, notwithstanding the warnings they received, in their
eagerness to realize the profits of a full cargo, took the hazards
of the adventure and must now bear the consequences. If she
could overstay the time limited for a short period she could for
a long one. Whatever the excess of time, the principle involved
is the same.
It is insisted for the claimants that according to the President's
proclamation on the 19th of April, the Hiawatha was not liable
to -eapture, until "the commander of one of the'blockading yessels" had "duly warned" her, endorsed "on her register the date
and fact of such warning," and she had again attempted "to
leave the blockaded port." To this proposition there are several
answers:
1st. There is no such provision in the proclamation of the 27th
of April touching the ports of Virginia.

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.
It simply announces that a blockade of those ports would be
established.
2d. The proclamation of Commodore Pendergrast limits the
warning to those who should approach the line of the blockade
in ignorance of its existence. This action of the naval com.
mauder has not been disavowed by his Government, and is con
elusive in a Prize Court. The warning proposed by this procla
mation is according to the law of nations, and it is all that the
law requires.
3d. If the provision referred to in the Proclamstion of the
19th of April be applicable to the ports of Virginia, it must be
considered in the light of the surrounding circumstances.
It was intended for the benefit of the innocent, not of the
guilty. It would be absurd to warn parties who had full previous knowledge. According to the construction contended for.
a vessel seeking to evade*the blockade might approach and
retreat any number of times, and when caught her captors could
do nothing but warn her and endorse the warning upon her
registry. The same process might be repeated at every port on
the blockaded coast. Indeed, according to the literal terms of
the proclamation, the Alabama might approach, and if captured,
insist upon the warning and endorsement of her registry, and
then upon her discharge. A construction drawing after it con
sequences so absurb, is a "fele de se."
The cargo must share thefate of the vessel.
The decree below is affirmed with costs.
III. The case of the Brilliante, No. 134, presents but little
difficulty. This was a Mexican vessel, with a cargo belonging
to Mexican citizens, seized on the 23d of June, 1861, in Biloxi
Bay, in an attempt to escape from New Orleans by running the
blo .kade, which had been established there by an efficient force
on the 15th of May preceding. She was carried by.the captors
to Key West, where she was libelled in the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Florida, and condemned with her cargo as prize of war.
F'rom the deposition of Don Rafael Preciat, who was part
owner of the vessel and partner in the ownership of the cargo

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Prize Caes.
and also was on board'from the time she left -Jhlr Lqme pot .at

Campeche until her capture, the following facts may be gathered.
In approaching New Orleans with a cargo from Sisal, she
found the United States ship-of-war Bxooklyn blockading the
mouth of the Mississippi River at Pass a Loutire, and was by the
officer of that vessel informed of the blockade and forbid to
enter. The witness had a son at Spring Uill College, near
Mobile, whom he desired to get away; and the Commander of
the Brooklyn gave him a letter to the Commander of the Niagara,
recommending that he should be permitted to land and get his
son. On leaving the Brooklyn she started along the coast in the
direction of the Niagara, but instead of seeking that vessel, she
evaded her, and went to New Orleans by way of Lake Ponchar.
train. At New Orleans she discharged her cargo dnd took in
another, and in attempting to escape by the way she intended,
was captured as already stated.
Some attempt has been made to excuse her entrance to New
Orleans by showing that the crew refused to :proceed towards
Mobile; but this is immaterial, as her condemnation is not for
her successful entrance, but for her unsuccessful attempt to escape.
It is also urged that she was entitled to warning at the time
of her capture, by virtue of the provision in the President's
proclamation establishing the blockade. But whatever may be
the sound construction of that provision in reference to warning
vessels in its application to vesselb which had notice of the
blockade, the question does not arise in this case; because, from
the statement of the owner of the vessel himself, she was warned
by the officer of the Brooklyn.
The fact that the vessel's register was not produced by either
party to show a warning endorsed on it, can make no difference.
It cannot be supposed that such endorsement on the ship's
register is to be the only evidence of warning; for if this were
admitted, the vessel would only have to destroy her register, and
with it the only evidence in which she could be condemned, or
she would only need to keep several registers and destroy the
one having the endorsement.
We entertain no doubt that this vessel and cargo were justly

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.
condemned. as neutral property for running the blockade, of
which she had been fairly warned, and which she had once
successfully violated.
The judgment is therefore, affirmed.
le case of the Crenshaw, No. 163, on the other hand presents the question of "enemies' property," pure and simple.
This vessel was seized in Hamptoh Roads on the 17th of May,
1861, by the blockading force at that point under flag-officer
Stringham, and was carried as a prize of war into New York.
The vessel and the larger part of the cargo were, at the time of
the capture, owned by citizens of the State of Virginia, residing
in Richmond; and the vessel had on board, among her papers,
a clearance signed on the 14th of May by R. H. Lortin, Collector
of the Port of. Richmond, of the Confederate States of America.
Upon the principles already settled, the vessel and such parts
of her cargo as came within the description of enemies' property, were rightfully c'ond~mned. It is howeier claimed that
ten tierces of tobacco strips shipped by Ludlam & Watson at
Richmond, to be delivdred to shipper's order at Liverpool, and
thirty tierces of tobacco strips shipped by W. 0. Clark at Richmond, to order of Messrs, Sam'l Irven or assigns, Liverpool, are
not enemies' property, and should be restored to claimants.
The ,claim for the tea tierces, as interposed by Henry Ludlam
in behalf of himself ard others, and the statement of the claimant's petition, are sworn to by Gustave Henikin, who holds the
bill of lading, which is endorsed-" deliver to Ludlam &
Henikin, for Chas. Lear & Sons', Liverpool. Ludlam & Watson."
Mr. Henikin states that his partner, Henry Ludlam, was in
Europe, that Watson, (the partner of Ludlam & Watson, resident
in Richmond,) was oat of the jurisdiction of the Court, and that
his knowledge of the facts embraced in the petition is derived
fr6m his connections with it as partner of Ludlam, and from
correspondence and business relations with the shippers. The
extent of his knowledge thus set forth is not very satisfactory
nor is the claim stated in a manner to relieve it of any embarrassment growing out of this fact. He sets forth substantially
that Ludlam & Watson, tlhe shippers, was a firm composed of

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Prze Cases.
Henry Ludlam, a citizen and. resident of Rhode Island, ad G. F.
Watson, a citizen and resident of Richmond, Va., doing business
in Richmond; and that Henry Ludlam was also doing business
in New York in partnership with Gustave Henikin, under the
style of Ludlam & Henikin, and that Lear & Sons were a mercantile partnership, composed of British subjects, residing inLiverpool. Then, speaking in behalf of all these parties, the
petitioner says, they are owners of the ten tierces of tobacco, and
bona fide owners of the bill of lading for the same, and that
said tobacco was from the time of the shipment on board of the
Crenshaw in the Port of Richmond, and still is the property of
the claimants.
It will be seen at once, that the statement does not profess -to
set out what are the distinct interests of each individual in this
property, nor the separate interests of the three partnership
firms thus claiming it. Nor is there any attempt to show how
any person beside Ludlam & Watson of Richmond, who were
the shippers, acquired any interest in it. It is a joint claim on
the part of all the persons mentioned, all of whom are asserted
to be bona fide holders of the bill of lading. It is perfectly
consistent with all that was stated, that Ludlam & Watson were
the real owners of the property. The bill of lading, which is
to shipper's order or assigns, throws no light on the subject, and
there is not a particle of other testimony in reference to the
claim in the record. The Court decreed that the interest of
Lear & Sons in the tdu tierces of tobacco be restored to them
and that they pay costs, unless they furnished further proof that
the property was bona file neutral. They failed to furnish
better proof and appealed on account of the costs.
We are of the opinion that the decree does them no injustice,
and in.,the doubtful circumstances in which this claim stands, on
their own statement, should have'had great hesitation in giving
them the property if the captors had appealed.
In reference to the clairt of Ludlam, we are not sufficiently
advised of what it is by his pleading or by the proof, to set apart
for him, if it were just. But we are of the opinion that the firm
of Ludlam & Watson, doing business in Richmond, where

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.
Watson, the active member of the firm, resided, must be ruled
by his status in reference to the property of the firm under his
control in the enemy country.
The property was, through his xesidence .in that country, subjected to the power of the enemy, and comes within the category
of "enemies' property."
There is more difficulty in reference to the claim of Irvin &
Co. to the thirty tierces of tobacco strips.
It very clearly appears-that Irvin & Co., claimants, purchased
this tobacco before the war broke out, with their own means,
which were then in Richmond, and that they are citizens and
residents of New York.
It is claimed that the property should be condemned on the
ground that the transaction constitutes an illegal traffic with the
enemy. This certainly cannot be held to apply to the purchase
of the tobacco, which was bought and paid for before hostilities
commenced. If it is intended to apply the principle of illegal
traffic to the attempt to withdraw the property from the enemy
country, it would seem that the order of the Secretary of the
Navy allowing fifteen days for all vessels to withdraw from the
blockaded ports, with or without cargo, should be held to apply
to the property of one of our own citizens, residing in New
York, already bought and paid for, as well -as to any neutral
cargo. If this be correct, it would seem that the property of
Irvin & Co. should be restored to them as that of Laurie, Son &
Co. was.
The right of Scott & Clarke to commissions on profits really
,onstituted no interest in the property, and presents no cogni
zable feature in the case.
This property will therefore be restored to the claimants.
Mr. Justice NELSON, dissenting. The property in this case,
vessel and cargo, was seized by a Government vessel on the 20th
of May, 1861, in Hampton Roads, for an alleged violation of the
blockade of the ports of the State of Virginia. The Hiawatha
was a British vessel and the cargo belonged tQ British subjects.
The vessel ha't entered the James River before the blockade, on

DECEMBER TERM. 1862.
Piize Cases.
her way to City Point, upwards of one hundred miles from the
mouth, where she took in her cargo. She finished loading on the
15th of May, but was delayed from departing on her outward
v.yage till the 17th for want of a tug to tow her down the
river. She arrived at Hampton Roads on the 20th, where,, the
blocknde in the meantime having been established, she was met
by one of the ships and the boarding officer endorsed on her
register, "ordered not to enter any port in Virginia, or south
of it." This occurred some three miles above the place where
the flag ship was stationed, and the boarding officer directed the
master to heave his ship to when he came abreast of the flag
ship, which was done, when she was taken in charge as prize.
On the 30th April, flag officer Pendergrast, U. S. ship Cumberland, off Fortress Monroe, in Hampton Roads, gave the following
notice: "All vessels passing the capes of Virginia, coming from
a distance and ignorant of the proclamation, (the proclamation
of the President of the 27th of April that a blockade would be
established,) will be warned off; and those passing Fortress
Monroe will be required to anchor under the guns of the fort
and subject themselves to an examination."
The Hiawatha, while engaged in putting on board her cargo
at City Point, became the subject of correspondence between the
British Minister and the Secretary of State, under date of the
8th and 9th of May, which drew from the Secretary of the Navy
a letter of the 9th, in which, after referring to the above notice
of the flag officer ]?endergrast, and stating that it had been sent
to the Baltimore and Norfolk papers, and by one or more pub.
lished, advised the Minister that fifteen days ,had been 'fixed
as a limit for neatrals to leave the .ports after an adtual bloc .
ade had commenced, with or without cargo. The inquiry
of the British Minister had referred not only to the time that a
vessel would be allowed to depart, but whether it might be
ladeped within the time. *This vessel, according to the advice
of the Secretary would be entitled to the whole of the 15th of
May to leave City Point., her port of lading. As we have seen,
her cargo was on board within the time, but the vessel was

SUPREME

COURT.

Prize Cases.
delayed in her departure for want of a tug to tow her down the
river.
We think it very clear upon all the evidence that there was
no intention on the part of the master to break the blockade,
that the seizure under the circumstances was not warranted, and
upon the merits that the ship and cargo should have been
restored.
Another ground of objection to this seizure is, that the vessel
was entitled to a warnin- endorsed on her papers by an officer
of the blockading force, according to the terms of the proclamation of the President; and that she was not liable to capture
except for the second attempt to leave the port.
The proclamation, after certain recitals, not material in this
branch of the case, provides as follows: the President has
"deemed it advisable to set on foot a blockade of the ports
within the States aforesaid, (the States referred to in the recitals,)
in pursuance of the laws of the United States and of the law of
nations, in such case made and provided." "If, therefore, with
a view to violate such blockade, a vessel shall approach or shall
attempt to leave either of said ports, she will be duly warned
by the commander of one of the blockading vessels, who will
endorse on her register the fact and date of such warning, and
if the same vessel shall again attempt to enter or leave the
blockaded port, she will be captured and sent to the nearest
convenient port for such proceedings against her and her cargo,
as prize, as may be deemed advisable."
The proclamation of the President of the 27th of April extended that of the 19th to the States of Virginia and North
Carolina.
It will be observed that this warning applies to vessels
attempting to enter or leave the port, and is therefore applicable
to the Hiawatha.
We must confess that we have not heard any satisfactory
answer to the objection founded upon the terms of this procla.
mation.
It has been said that the proclamation, among other grounds,
as stated on its face, is foanded on the "law of nations," and

DECEMBER -TERM, 1862.'
Prize Cases.

hence draws after it the law cf blocbade as found in that code,
and that a warning is dispensed with in all cases where the
vessel is chargeable with previous notice or knowledge that the
port is blockaded. But the obvious answer to the suggestion
is, that there is no necessary connection between the authority
upon which the proclamation is issued and the terms prescribed
as the condition of its penalties or enforcement, and, besides, if
founded upon the law of nations,' surely it was competent for
the President to mitigate the rigors of that code and apply to
neutrals the more lenient and friendly principles of international
law. We do not doubt but that considerations of this charactei
influenced the President in prescribing these favorable terms in
respect to neutrals; for, in his message a few months later to'
Congress, (4th of July,) he observes: "a proclamation was issuedfor closing the ports of the insurrectionary districts" (not by
blockade, but) "by proceedings in the vature of a blockade."

This view of the proclamation seems to have been entertained
by the Secretaryof the Navy, under whose orders it was carried
into execution. In his report to the President, 4th July, be
observes, after referring to the necessity of interdicting com
merce at those ports where the Government were not permitted
to collect the revenue, that "in the performance of this domestic
municipal duty the property and interests of foreigners became,
to some extent, involved in our home questions, and with a view
of extending to them every comity that circumstances would
justify, the rules 6f blockade were adopted, and, as far as practi
cable, made applicable to the cases that occurred under this
embargo or non-intercourse of the insurgent States. The commanders, he observes, were directed to permit, the vessels of
foreigners to depart within fifteen days as in case of actual
effective blockade, and their vessels were not to be seized unless
they attempted, after having been once warned off, to enter an
interdicted port in disregard of such warning."
The question is not a new one in this Court. The British
Government had notified the United States of the blockade of
certain ports in the West Indies, but "not to consider blockades
as existing, unless in respect to particular ports which may be.

SUPREME

COURT.

Prize Cases.

actually invested, and, then, not to capture vessels bound to such
ports, unless they shall have been previously warned not to
enter them."
The question arose upon this blockade in Afar. In. Co. vs.
Woods, (6 Cranch, 29.)
Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering the opinion of the Court,
observed, "The words of the order are not satisfied by any previous notice which the vessel may have obtained, otherwise than
by her being warned off. - This is a technical term which is well
understood. It is not satisfied by notice received in any other
manner. The effect of this order is, that a vessel cannot be
placed- in the situation of one having notice of the blockadeuntil she is warned off. It gives her a right to inquire of the
blockading squadron, if she shall not receive this warning from
one capable of giving it, and, consequently, dispenses with her
making that inquiry elsewhere. While this order was in force
a neutral vessel might lawfully sail for a blockaded port, knowing it to be blockaded, and being found sailing towards such
port, would not constitute an attempt to break the blockade until
she should be warned off."
We are of opinion, therefore, that, according to the very terms
of the proclamation, neutral ships were entitled to a warning by
one of the blockading squadron and could be lawfully seized
only on the second attempt to enter or leave the port.
It is remarkable, also, that both the President and the Secretary, in referring to the blockade, treat the measure, not as a
blockade under the law of nations, but as a restraint upon commerce at the interdicted ports under the municipal laws of the
Government.
Another objection taken to the seizure of this vessel and
cargo is. that there was no existing war between the United
States and the States in insurrection within the meaning of the
law of nation:, which drew after it the consequences of a public
or civil war. A contest by force between independent sovereign
States is called a public war; and, when duly commenced by
pr.clamation or otherwise, it entitles both of the belligerent
parties to all the rights of war against each other, and as respects

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

987

Prize Cases.

neutral nations. Chancellor Kent observes, "Though a solemn
declaration, or previous notice to the enemy, be now laid aside,
it is essential that some formal public act, proceeding directly
from the competent source, should announce to the people at
home their new relations and duties growing out of a state of
war, and which should equally apprize neutral nations of the fact,
to enable them to conform their conduct to the rights belonging
to the new state of things." "Such an official act operates from
its date to legalize all hostile acts, in like manner as a treaty of
peace operates from its date to annul them." He further observes,
"as war cannot lawfully be commenced on the part of the
United States without an act of Congress, such act is, of course,
a formal notice to all the world, and equivalent to the most
solemn declaration."
The legal consequences resulting from a state of war between
two countries at this day are well understood, and will be found
described in every approved work on the subject of international
law. The people of the two countries become immediately the
enemies of each other-all intercourse commercial or otherwise
between them unlawful-all contracts existing at the commencement of the war suspended, and all made during its existence
utterly void. The insurance of enemies' property, the drawing
of bills of exchange or purchase .on the enemies' country, the
remission of bills or money to it are illegal and void. Existing
partnerships between citizens or subjects of the two countries
are dissolved, and, in fine, interdiction of trade and intercourse
direct or indirect is absolute and complete by the mere force
and effect of war itself. All the property of the people of
the two countries on land or sea are subject .to capture and
confiscation by the adverse party as enemies' property, wit
certain qualifications as it respects property on land, (Brown vs.
United States, 8 Cranch, 110,) all treaties between the belligerent
parties are annulled,, The ports ofithe respective countries may
be blockaded, and letters of marque and reprisal granted as
rights of war, and the law of prizes as defined by the law of
nations comes into full and complete operation, resulting from
maritime captures jure belli. War also effects a change in the

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.
mutual relations of all States or countries, not directly, as in the
case of the belligerents, but immediately and indirectly, though
they take no part in the contest, but remain neutral.
This great and pervading change in the existing condition of
a country, and in the relations of all her citizens or subjects,
external and internal, from a state of peace, is the immediate
effect and result of a state of war: and hence the same code
which has annexed to the existence of a war all these disturbing
consequences has declared that the right of making war belongs
exclusively to the supreme or sovereign power of the State.
This power in all civilized nations is regulated by the fundamental laws or municipal constitution of the country.
By our Constitution this power is lodged in Congress. Congress shall have power "to declare war, grant letters of marque
and reprisal, and make rules concerning captures on land and
water."
We have thus far been considering the status of the citizens
or subjects of a country at the breaking out of a public wa7
when recognized or declared by the competent power.
In the case of a rebellion or resistance of a portion of the
people of a country against the established government, there i
no doubt, if in its progress and enlargement the government thus
sought to be overthrown sees fit, it may by the competent power
recognize or declare the existence of a state of civil war, Wvhich
,will draw after it all'the consequences and rights of war between
the contending parties as in the case of a public war. Mr.
Wheaton observes, speaking of civil war, "But the general
usage of nations regards such a war as entitling both the con.
tending parties to all'the rights of war as against each other,
and even as respects neutral nations." It is not to be denied,
therefore, that if a civil war existed between that portion of the
people in organized insurrection to overthrow this Government
at the time this vessel and cargo were seized, and if she was
guilty-of a violation of theblockade, she would be lawful prize
of war. But before this insurrection against the established
Government can be dealt with on the footing of a. civil war,
within the meaning-of ihe law of nations and the Constitution

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Prize Cases.
of the United States, and which will draw after it blligerent
rights, it must be recognized or declarbd by the war-making
power of the Government. No power short of this can change
the legal status of the Government or the relations of its citizens
from that of peace to a state of war, or bring into existence all
those duties and obligations of neutral third parties growing out
of a state of war. The war power of the Government must be
exercised before this changed condition of the Government and
people and of neutral third parties can be admitted. There is
no difference in this respect between a civil or a public war.
We have been more particular upon this branch of the case
than would seem to be required, on account of any doubt or
dilculties attending the subject in view of the approved works
upon the law of nations or from the adjudication of the courts,
but, because some confusion existed on the argument as to the
definition of a war that drew after it all the rights of prize of
war. Indeed, a great portion of the argument- proceeded upon
the ground that these rights could be called into operation-enemies' property captured-blockades set on toot and all the
rights of war enforced in prize courts-by a species of war unknown to the law of nations and to the Constitution of the United
States.
An idea seemed to be entertained that all that was necessary
to constitute a war was organized hiostility in the district of
country in a state of rebellion-that conflicts on land- and on sea
-the taking of towns and capture of fleets-iri fine, the magnitude and dimensions of the rsistance against tha Governmentconstituted war with all the belligerent rights belonging to civil
war.- With a 'view to enforce this idea, we had, duririg the
argument, an-imposing historical 'detail of the several measures
adopted by the Confederate States to enable them to resist the
authority of the general Governn~ent, ahl of many bold and
daring acts of resistance and of conflict. It vas said that war"
was to be ascertained by looking at the armies and navies or
public force of the contending parties, and the battles lost and
won-that in the language of one of the learned counsel, "Whenever the situation of opposing hostilities-has assumed the pro.
VOL. H.
44
-

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.
portions and pursued the methods of war, then peace is driven
out, the ordinary authority and administration of law are suspended and war in fact and by necessity is the status of the
nation u ntil peace is restored and the laws resumed their dominion. '
Now, in one sense, no doubt this is war, and may be a war
of the most extensive and threatening dimensions and effects, but
it is a statement simply of its existence in a material sense, and
has no relevancy or weight when the question is what constitutes
war in a legal sense, in the sense of the law of nations and of the
Constitution of the United States? For it must be a war in this
sense to attach to it all the consequences that belong to belligerent rights. Instead, therefore, of inquiring after armies and
navies, and victories lost and won, or organized rebellion against
the general Government, the inquiry should be into the law of
nations and into the municipal fundamental laws of the Governrnent. For we find there that to constitute a civil war in the
sense in which we are speaking, before it can exist, in contemplation of law, it must be recognized or declared by the
sovereign power of the State, and which sovereign power by
our Coitstitution is lodged in the Congress of the United States
-- civil war, therefore, under our system of government, can
exist only by an act of Congress, which requires the assent of
two of the great departments of the Government, the Executive
and Legislative.
We have thus far been speaking of the war power under the
Constitution of the United States, and as known and recognized
by the law of nations. But we are asked, what would become
of the peace and integrity of the Union in case of an insurrection
at home or invasion from abroad if this power could not be
exercised by the President in the recess of Congress, and until
that body could be assembled?
The framers of the Constitution fully comprehended this question, and provided for the contingency. Indeed,,it would have
been surprising if they had not, as a rebellion had occurred in
the State of Massachusetts while the Convention was in session,
and which had become so general that it was quelled only by

DECEMBER TERM, 1362.

691

Prize Cases.
calling upon the military power of the State. The Constitution
declares that Congress shall have power "to provide for calling
forth the militia to execute the laws of the Union, suppress
insurrections, and repel invasions." Another clause, "that the
President shall be Commander-in-chief of the Army and Navy
of the United States, and of the militia of the several States
when called into the actual service of the United States;" and,
again, "He shall take care that the laws shall be faithfully executed." Congress passed laws on this subject in 1792 and 1795.
1 United States Laws, pp. 264:, 424.
The last Act provided that whenever the United States shall be
invaded or be in imminent danger of invasion from a foreign
nation, it shall be lawful for the President to call forth such
number of the militia most convenient to the place of danger,
and in case of insurrection in any State against the Government
thereof, it shall be lawful for the President, on the application
of the Legislature of such State, if in session, or if not, of the
Executive of the State, to call forth such numer of militia of
any other State or States as he may judge sufficient to suppress,
such insurrection.
The 2d section provides, that when the laws of the United
States shall be opposed, or the execution obstructed in any State
by combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the course of
judicial proceedings, it shall be lawful for the President to call
forth the militia of such State, or of any other State or States as
may be necessary to suppress such combinations; and by the
Act 3 March, 1807, (2 U. S. Laws, 443,) it is provided that in
,case of insurrection or obstruction of the laws, either in the
United States or of any State or Territory, where it is lawful
for the President to call forth the militia for the purposc of
suppressing such insurrection, and causing the laws to be executed, it shall be lawful to employ for the same purpose such
part of the land and naval forces of the United States as shall,
be judged necessary.
It will be seen, therefore, that ample provision has been made
under the Constitution and laws against any sudden and unexpected disturbance of the public peace from insurrection at home

SUPREME

COURT.

Prize Cases.
or invasion from abroad. The whole military and naval power
of the country is put under the control of the President to meet
the emergency. He may call out a force in proportion to its
lecessities, one regiment or fifty, one ship-of-war or any number
at his discretion. If, like the insurrection in the State of Pennsylvania in 1793, the' disturbance is confined to a small district
of country, a few regiments of the militia may be sufficient to
suppress it. If of the dimension of the present, when it first
broke oiit, a much larger force would be required. But what
ever its numbers, whether great or small, that may be required,
ample provision is here made; and whether great or small, the
nature of the power is the same. It is the exercise of a power
under the muni(-ipal laws of the country and not under the law
of nations; and, as we see, furnishes the most ample means of
repelling attacks from abroad or suppressing disturbances at
home until the assembling of Congress, who can, if it be deemed
necessary, bring into operation the war power, and thus change
the nature and character of the contest. Then, instead of being
carried on under the municipal law of 1795, it would be under
the law of nations, and the Acts of Congress as war measures
with all the rights of war.
It has been argued that the authority conferred on the Presi
dent by the Act of 1795 invests him with the war power. But
the obvious answer is, that it proceeds from a different clause in
the Constitution and which'is given for different purposes and
objects, namely, to execute the laws and preserve the public
order and tranquillity of the country in a time of peace by preventing or suppressing a'ny public disorder or disturbance by
foreign or domestic enemies. Certainly, if there is any force in
this argument, then we are in a state of war with all the rights
of war, and' all the penal consequences attending it every time
this power is exercised by calling out a military force to execute
the laws or to suppress insurrection or rebellion; for the nature
of the power cannot depend upon the numbers called out. If
so, what numbers will constitute war and what numbers will
not? It has also been argued that this power of the President
from necessity should be construed as vesting him with the war

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Prize Cases.
power, or the Republic might greatly suffer or be in danger from
the attacks of the hostile party before the assembling of Congress. But we have seen that the whole military and -naval
force are in his hands under the municipal laws of the country.
He can meet the adversary upon land and water with all the
forces of the Government. The truth is, this idea of the existence of any necessity for clothing the President with the war
power, under the Act of 1796, is simply a monstrous exaggeration; for, besides having the command of the whole of the army
and navy, Congress can be assembled within any thirty days, if
the safety of the country requires that the war power shall be
brought into operation.
The Acts of 1795 and 1807 did not, and could not under the
Constitution, confer on the President the power of declaring war
against a State of this Union, or of deciding that war existed,
and upon that ground authorize the capture and confiscation of
the property of every citizen of the State whenever it was found
oa the waters. The laws of war, whether the war be civil or
inter gentes, as we have seen, convert every citizen of the hostile
State into a public enemy, and treat him accordingly, whatever
may have been his previous conduct. This great power over
the business and property of the citizen is reserved to the legis
lative department by the express words of the Constitution. If
cannot be delegated or surrendered to the Executive. Congresm alone can determine whether war exists or should be
declared; and until they have acted, no citizen of the State can
be punished in his person or property, unless he has committed
some offence against a law of Congress passed before the act
was committed, which made it a crime, and defined the punish.
ment. The penalty of confiscation for the acts of others with
which he had no concern cannot lawfully be inflicted.
In the.breaking out of a rebellion against the established
Government, the usage in all civilized countries, in its first
stages, is to suppress it by confining the public forces and the
operations of the Government against those in rebellion, and at
the same time extending encouragement and support to the loyal
people with a view to their co-operation in putting down the

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.
insurgents. This course is not only the dictate of wisdom, but
of justice. This was the practice of England in Monmouth's
rebellion in the reign of James the Second, and in the rebellions
of 1715 and 1745, by the Pretender and his son, and also in the
beginning of the rebellion of the Thirteen Colonies of 1776. It
is a personal war against the individuals engaged in resisting the
authority of the Government. This was the character of the
war of our Revolution till the passage of the Act of the Parliament of Great Britain of the 16th of George Third, 1776. By
t hat act all trade and commerce with the Thirteen Colonies was
interdicted and all ships and cargoes belonging to the inhabitants
subjected to forfeiture as if the same were the ships and effects
of open enemies. From this time the war became a territorial
civil war between the contending parties, with all the rights of
war known to the law of nations. Down to this period the war
was personal against the rebels, and encouragement and support
constantly extended to the loyal subjects who adhered to their
allegiance, and although the power to make war existed exclusively in the King, and of course this personal war carried on
under his authority, and a partial exercise of the war power, no
capture of the ships or cargo of the rebels as enemies' property
on the sea, or confiscation in Prize Courts as rights of war, took
place until after the passage of the Act of Parliament. Until
the passage of the act the American subjects were not regarded
as enemies in the sense of the law of nations. The distinction
between the loyal and rebel subjects was constantly observed.
That act provided for the capture and confiscation as prize of their
property as if the same were the property "of open enemies."
For the first "time the distinction was obliterated.
So the war carried on by the President against the insurrectionary districts in the Southern States, as in the case of the
King of Great Britain in the American Revolution, was a personal war against those in rebellion, and with encouragement
and support of loyal citizens with a view to their co-operation
and aid in suppressing the insurgents, with this difference.. as the
war-making power belonged to the King, he might have recognized or declared the war at the beginning to be a civil war

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Prie Cases.

which would draw after it all the rights of a belligerent, but in
the case of the President no such power existed: the war there.
fore from necessity was a personal war, until Congress assembled
and acted upon this state of things.
Down to this period the only enemy recognized by the Govermnent was the persons engaged in the rebellion, all others were
peaceful citizens, entitled to all the privileges of citizens under
the Constitution. Certainly it cannot rightfully be said that the
President has the power to convert a loyal citizen into a belligerent enemy or confiscate his property as enemy's property.
Congress assembled on the call for an extra session the 4th of
July, 1861, and among the first acts passed was one in which
the President was authorized by proclamation to interdict all
trade and intercourse between all the inhabitants of States in
insurrection and the rest of the United States, subjecting vessel
and cargo to capture and condemnation as prize, and also to
direct the capture of any ship or vessel belonging in whole or
in part to any inhabitant of a State whose inhabitants are
declared by the proclamation to be in a state of insurrection,
found at sea or in any part of the rest of the United States. Act
of Congress of 13th of July, 1861, sees. 5, 6. The 4th section
also authorized the President to close any port in a Collection
District obstructed so that the revenue could not be collected
and provided for the capture and condemnation of any vesse.
attempting to enter.
The President's Proclamation was issued on the 16th of August
following, and'embraced Georgia, North and South Carolina, part
,of Virginia, Tennessee, Alabama, Louisiana, Texas, Arkansas
Mississippi and Florida.
Tuis Act of Congress, we think, recognized a state of civil
war between the Government and the Confederate States, and
made it territorial. The Act of Parliament of 1776, which converted the rebellion of the Colonies into a civil territorial war,
resembles, in its leading features, the act to which we have"
referred. Government in recognizing or declaring the existence
of a civil war between itself and a portion of the people in
insurreetion usually modifies its effects with a view as far as

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.
practicable to favor the innocent and loyal citizens or subjects
involved in the war. It is only the urgent necessities of the
Government, arising from the magnitude of the resistance, that
can excuse the conversion of the personal into a territorial Nar,
and thus confound all distinction between guilt and innocence.
hence the modification in the Act of Parliament declaring the
territorial war.
It is found in the 44th section of the Act, which for the en.
couragement of well affected persons, and to afford speedy
protection to those desirous of returning to their allegiance, pro.
vided for declaring such inhabitants of any colony, county,
town, port, or place, at peace with his majesty, and after such
n .tice by proclamation there should be no further captures. The
Act of 13th of July provides that the President may, in his discietion, permit commercial intercourse with any such part of a
State or section, the inhabitants of which are declared to be in a
state of insurrection (ยง 5), obviously intending to favor loyal
citizens and encourage others to return to their loyalty. And
the 8th section provides that the Secretary of the Treasury may
mitigate or remit the forfeitures and penalties incurred under
the act. The Act of 31st July is also one of a kindred character.
That appropriates $2,000,000 to be expended under the authority of the President in supplying and delivering arms and
munitions of war to loyal citizens residing in any of the States
of which the inhabitants are in rebellion, or in which it may
be threatened. We agree, therefore, that the Act 13th July,
1861, recognized a state of civil war between the Government
and the people of the States described in that proclamation.
The cases of the United States vs. Palmer, (3 Wh., 610);
Div~na Pastora, and 4 Ibid, 52, and that class of cases to be
found in the reports are referred to as furnishing authority for
the exercise of the war power claimed for the President in the
present case. These cases hold that when the Government of
the United States recognizes a state of civil war to exist between
a foreign nation and her colonies, but remaining itself neutral,
the Courts are bound to consider as lawful all those acts which
the new Government may direct against the enemy, and we

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

697

Plze Cases.
admit the President who conducts the foreign relations of theGovernment may fitly recognize or refuse to do so, the existence
-ofcivil war in the foreign nation under the circumstances stated.
But this is a very different question from the one before us,
which is whether tlhe President can recognize or declare a civil
war, 3nder the Constitution, with all its belligerent rights,
between his own Government and a portion of its citizens in a
state of insurrection. That power, as we have seen, belongs to
Congress. We agree when such a-war is recognized or declared
to exist by the war-making power, but not otherwise, it is the
duty of the Courts to follow the decision of the political power
of the Government.
The case of Luther vs. Borden et al., (7 How., 45,) which arose
out of the attempt of an assumed new government in the State
to overthrow the old and established Government of Rhode
Island by arms. The Legislature of the old Government had
established martial law, and the Chief Justice in delivering the
opinion of the Court observed, anong other things, that "if the
Government of Rhode Island deemed the armed opposition so
formidable and so ramified throughout the State as to require
the use of its military force, and the dec]arition of martial law,
we see no ground upon which this Court can question its authority. It was a state of war, and the established Government
resorted to the rights and usages of war to maintain itself and
overcome the unlawful opposition."
But it is only necessary to say, that the term "war" must
necessarily have been used here by the Chief Justice in its
popular sense, and not as known to the law of nations, as the
State of Rhode Island confessedly possessed no power under the
Federal Constitution to declare war.
Congress on the 6th of August, 1862, passed an Act confirm.
ing all acts, proclamations, and orders of the President, after the
4th of March, 1861, respecting the army and navy; and legalizing them, so far as was competent for that body, and it hs
been suggested, but scarcely argued, that this legislation on the
subject had the effect to bring into existence an ex post facto
civil war with all the rights of capture and confiscation, jura

SUPREME COURT.
Prize Cases.
belli, from the date referred to. An ex post facto law is defined,
when, after an action, indifferent in itself, or lawful, is committed,
the Legislature then, for the first time, declares it to have been
a crime and inflicts punishment upon the person who committed
it. The principle is sought to be applied in this case. Property of the citizen or foreign subject engaged in lawful trade
at the time, and illegally captured, which must be taken as true
if a confirmatory act be necessary, may be held and confiscated
by subsequent legislation. In other words trade and commerce
authorized at the time by acts of Congress and treaties, may, by
ex post facto legislation, be changed into illicit trade and commerce with all its penalties and forfeitures annexed and enforced.
The instance of the seizure of the Dutch ships in 1803 by Great
Britain before the war, and confiscation after the declaration of
war, which is well known, is referred to as an authority. But
there the ships were seized by the war power, the orders of the
Government, the seizure being a partial exercise of that power,
and which was soon after exercised in full.
The precedent is one which has not received the approbation
of ju'rists, and is not to be followed. See W. B. Lawrence, 2d
ed. Wheaton's Element of Int. Law, pt. 4, ch. 1. sec. 11, and
note. But, admitting its full weight, it affords no authority in
the present case. Here the captures were without any Constitutional authority, and void; and, on principle, no subsequent
ratification could make them valid.
Upon the whole, after the most careful consideration of this
case which the pressure of other duties has admitted, I am compelled to the conclusion that no civil war existed between this
Government and the States in insurrection till recognized by the
Act of Congress 13th of July, 1861; that the President does not
possess the power under the Constitution to declare war or
recognize its existence within the meaning of the law of nations,
which carries with it belligerent rights, and thus change the
country and all its citizens from a state of peace to a state of
war; that this power belongs exclusively to the Congress of the
United States, and, consequently, that the President had no
power to set on foot a blockade under the law of nations, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

699

Appletm vs. Bacon & North.
that the capture of the vessel and.cargo i4 this case, and in all
cases before us in which the capture occurred before the 13th
of July, 1861, for breach of blockade, or as enemies' property,
are illegal and void, and that the decrees of condemnation should
be reversed and the vessel and cargo restored.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice CATRON and Mr.
Justice CLIFFORD, concurred in the dissenting opinion of Mr.
Justice Nelson.

APPLETON vs. BACOT & NORTH.

Parties engaging the services of an inventor, under an agreement that he shall devote his ingenuity to the perfecting of
a machine for their benefit, can lay no claim.to improvements
conceived by him after the expiration of such agreement.
This was an appeal from the Circuit Court for the District of
Columbia.
On. the 7th of December, 1858, the appellhnts, Appleton, filed
their bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columaia for an injunction to restrain the defendant,
Bacon, from using, selling or trading with, or otherwise employing a certain patent right for a new and improved mode of
folding paper invented by defendant, North, which had been
issued by the Patent Office to the defendant, Bacon, on the 10th
of August, 1858.' And'also from constructing or authorizing,
to be constructed any machine or machines, having or containing the said improvement, &c., as aforesaid patented to
him, until the further order of the Court; that he be decreed to
surrender and deliver up the said letters-patent to be cancelled,
that they be declared void, and for general relief on the ground
that the coriplainants were assignees of the invention, and the
patent should have been issued to them, but the defendant
Bacon, had fraudulently procured it to be issued to himself.
The defendant, North, admitted all the facts stated in the bill,

