SUPREME COURT.
De Hraft vs. Barney.
June, 1858, and the patent issued to S. T. Bacon, the defendant,
instead of to John North, the inventor, on the 10th of August
following, and this without any provious notice to him. How
this happened in the Commissioner's office has not been explained. It was a very grave irregularity. The specification
on file was in the name of North, the application in his name;
and the patent fee paid by him. We have seen the defendant.
to whom it was issued, had no right to it, legal or equitable.
The officer must have been imposed upon by the use of the old
machine of 1856. which we have seen was but an unsuccessful
experiment, and abandoned. The plaintiffs, as assignees of
North, have mada out a clear right" to the patent, and the decree
of the Court below must be reversed and the cause remitted,
with instructions to enter a decree for the plaintiffs, directing
the defendant to surrender the patent to be cancelled.

DE IKRAFFT vs. BA1tNEy.

1. In order to give this Court jurisdiction under the 22d section
of the Judiciary Act of 1789, the matter in dispute must be
money, or some right, the value of which can be calculated in
money.
2. A claim to the guardianship of the person and property of children, not on account of any pecuniary value attached to the
office, but upon other considerations, is not within the jurisdiction of this Court.
8. B'arry vs. Mercein, (5 How. 103,),re-stated and re-affirmed.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia.
The appellant, De Kraffi, by two petitions filed in the Orphans'
Court of the District of Columbia, on the 2d of October, 1860,
and the 7th of September, 1861, alleged that by reason of a
decree of divorce rendered by the District Court of Jasper
County, Iowa, on the 18th .day of September, 1860, divorcing
from the appellee his wife, Mary De Kraffi Barney, since de-

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

705

De Krafft vs. Barney.

ceased and allotting the custody and control of their infant
children to the latter, the appellee .was not entitled to the
guardianship of the persons and estates of said infant children;
and that even if so entitled the appellee was an unfit person
to have the custody of the children and their estates, and
ought to be removed; and the petition prayed the appointment
of some suitable guardian to take charge of the children and
their estates. The answers of the appellee to these petitions,
filed o. the 3d of November, 1860, and the 11th of September,
1861, denied the validity of the alleged divorce because th
appellee was not a party to the proceedings wherein the decre
was alleged to have been rendered, and because said decree wait
obtained by fraud. The answers further denied the alleged
unfitness of the appellee to act as guardian, and pleaded to the
jurisdiction of the Court to remove a guardian by nature. Here
the pleadings ended. Evidence was taken at great length. Tho
Iowa record showed on its face that the appellee was a nonresident of Iowa, was not served with process and did not
appear, either in person or by attorney. Evidence was also produced showing that he was beyond the United States during the
proseution of the suit and had no notice that it was pending.
On the 25th of January, 1862, the Judge of the Orphans'
Court delivered his opinion in which he held that by the 4th
Article of the Constitution of the United States, See. I., and the
Acts of Congress passed in pursuance thereof, the decree of the
District Court of Jasper County was final and conclusive. The
Court then rendered a decree appointing Dr. Harvey Lindsley
guardian of the children, and requiring him to give bond with
sureties, to be approved by the Court, in the sum of $30,000,
which bond was accordingly given. The appellee appealed
from this decree to the Circuit Court. The Circuit Court, at
October Term, 1862, reversed the decree of the Orphans' Court,
and directed said Court to cite the appellee "for the purpose of
entering into bond with good and sufficient security for the per.
formance of his trust as natural guardian of the estate of his
infant children," &c. From this order De Kraffi, in open Court
prayed an appeal to this Court.
VOL. I.

45

SUPREME COURT.
De irafft vs. Barney.
The case was submitted by counsel upon briefs, on a motion
to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. Davidge and Mr. Ingle, of the District of Columbia, in
support of the motion.
In order to give this Court jurisdiction to re-examine a judgment, order or decree of a Circuit Court, (1st,) the matter il
dispute must be money, or something whose value in money can
be calculated and ascertained; (2dly,) the plaintiff in brror, or
appellant, must be deprived of such matter in dispute by the
judgment, order or decree sought to be reversed; and (3dly,)
the judgment, order or decree must be final.
As to the first requisite: It must be admitted, that the right
of revision exists only when questions of property are involved.
Such is the only standard known to the law. By the Constitution of the-Unitel States, the appellate jurisdiction of this Court
exists only when. it is conferred by acts of Congress. The
language of thbse acts is plain and unambiguous; the matter in
dispute must be of the value of $1,000. The test of jurisdiction
is a money or property test.
Applying this test to the present case; What is the value of
the matter in dispute? What is the controversy? It is a controversy as to the right of a father to the custody, comfort and
society of his children. The pretensions of the appellaint, as set
out in his petitions fled in the Orphans' Court, are that the
appellee was deprived of this right by the decree of the Iowa
Court, or, if not so deprived of it, ought to be by the Orphans'
Court. In either case the matter in dispute is the right of the
father.
What is the value of that right? It is plain- it cannot be
computed in money-it is not the subject of pecuniary estimation.
It is in no sense a money or property right; and hence it is not
within the grant of appellate jurisdiction to this Court.
The subject is not new in this Court. In Barry vs. Yercien,
(5 How., 103), the controversy was between the father and
mother of an infant daughter, each claiming her custody. To

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
De Kraft vs. Barney.
the judgment of the Circuit Court of New York, denying the
writ of haleas corpus prayed for by the father against his wife,
who had possession of the child, he sued out a writ of error. A
motion was made to dismiss for the want of jurisdiction; and
this Court held that it had appellate jurisdiction only when
rights of property were concerned, and that the matter in dispute was utterly incapable of being reduced to a money standard;
and hence dismissed the cause. And to the same effect are
arant.vs.McKee, (1 Pet. 248); Ritchie vs. MAauro, (2 Pet. 243)
Scott vs. Lunt, (6 Pet. 349); Boss vs. Prentiss, (8 How. 772).,
United States, ex rel., Crawford vs. Addison, (22 How. 174, 181);
and numerous other cases.
But recondly: Even if the character of the subject matter. in
dispu.0e in this cause were not conclusive against the jurisdiction
of this Court, how is the appellant aggrieved or otherwise affected
by the order of the Circuit Court? Of what right. or claim,
touching the matter in dispute, is he deprived ? The order of the
Circuit Court appealed from confides the custody of the children
to the father, and gives him also the management of their property, on his giving adequate security. What is takenfrom the
appellant by such order? He never had any claim, or pretence
of claim, either to the children or to the management of their
property. By the law of the District of Columbia, if there be
no natural guardian, the selection of the guardian rests wholly
in the discretion of the Orphans' Court. One man has no more
right or title to the office than another. Nobody has any such
tight or title. It is again asked of what right or claim has the
appellant been deprived by the order of the Circuit Court? As
regards the persons and property of the children, does not the
appellant, since the order, stand precisely as he did before? In
the second petition he disclaims any desire to be appointed
guardian.-He, has not, therefore, even disappointment, much
less the invasion of any legal right, to complain of. He
may prefer that the father should not have the custody of the
children and their property, and that the guardian appointed by
the Orphans' Court should; but such preference furnishes no
ground of jurisdiction.

SUPREME COURT.
De Krafft vs. Barney.
If this appeal, therefore, be regarded as taken by De Krafft in
his individual character, it is plain he has sustained no injury,
as even the costs are directed by the Circuit Court to be paid
out of the estate of the children; and the petitions are filed by
him in his individual character, and the appeal so prayed. He
nowhere appears as Inochein ami. But assuming that he acted
as such, and that the suit is, in legal contemplation, the suit of
the children: the argument is the same. What injury, it is
asked, has been sustained by them? They must have some
guardian for their persons and property; and that guardian is
legally entitled to his commissions. What have they lost by the
establishment of the legal right of their father? What legal
right or claim is there to which they were entitled unde
Lindsley and are not now equally entitled to? It seems absurd
to say that, as regards the children, there is anything more in.
volved than the choice between two persons, for some guardian
they must have; and assilming that they prefer Lindsley to
their father, (which. is rot the fact,) such preference wiil no.
give jurisdiction to this Court.
Thirdly: The order is not a final order. It does not put vn
end to the whole controversy. Whilst it affirms the father'v
right to the custody of the persons of the children, it directs the
Orphans' Court to cite him to give security for the management
of the property. A portion of the controversy is therefore left
undisposed of. If he fails to give security, a special guardian is
to be appointed to take charge of the property. The suit in the
Orphans' Court continues: that Court alone can dismiss the
petitions. The suit goes on there, subject to the direction of the
Circuit Court.; but relief may be still granted under the petitions.
They are, at all events, to be-disposed- of by the Orphans' Court.
It is true that the judgment of the Orphans' Court has been
reversed; but a reversal of judgment does not dispose of the
matter in dispute. Mayberry vs. Thompsen, (5 How. 121.)
Very similar to the present case was that of Van Ness vs. Fan
Ness, (6 How., 62.) There letters of administration on the estate
of John P. Van Ness were claimed by a party alleging herself
to be his widow. The next of kin denied that she was such, and

DECEMBER TERM 1862.
De Erafft vs. Barney.
under the Act of Assembly of Maryland, (1798, c. 1,01,) the
Orphans' Court directed an issue to be sent for trial to the
Circuit Court. At the trial, numerous exceptions were taken.
The finding of the jury was ordered by the Circuit Court to be
certified to the Orphans' Court, and from this order the writ of
error was sued out. Under the above act the finding and order
were conclusive; and the Orphans' Court could not do otherwiso
than render judgment in conformity with them. This C6urt
held that the order of the Circuit Court was not a final order,
and dismissed the writ of error.
Mr. Coxe and Mr. Blount, of the District of Columbia, in oppo.
sition to the motion.
The appellee contends, that to give this Court jurisdiction the
matter in dispute must be money, or something which admits of
a pecuniary valuation.
Tne subject of controversy is then stated to be "the right of a
father to the custody, comfort, and society of his children."
It is somewhat singular that in the order of the Circuit Court
not a word is said of the guardianship of the persons of the
children, or of their custody, comfort, or society.
Appellee is to be cited to give bond for the performanceof
his trust as natural guardian of the estate of the children, and
upon his neglect or refusal then to appoint a fit and proper person to take care of and manage the estate and property of the
infants.
It may be questioned whether the phraseology employed by
the Orphans' Court is not more technically accurate than that
used by the Circuit Court. The former, pursuing the precise
language of the Maryland statute, appoints a guardian of the
infant children, the word as clearly indicated by the whole
scope of the statute, and especially by the proximate context including the guardianship of the person as well as property. The
superior Court, while limiting the responsibility of the father's
bond entirely to the estate of his children, and in case of his
refusal to give the bond required the substitution of another
guardian, equally limited in authority and responsibiliiy, wholly

StPREME COITUT.
De Krafft vs. Barney.
omits to provide for the maintenance, education, and especially
that which it is now insisted constitutes the entire subject of
controversy, "the custody, comfort, and society of the children."
It may be surmised that the paramount consideration in the
mind of the party or counsel who drafted the order, hastily and
inconsiderately adopted by the Court, was not rather the estate
of these minors than their physical, moral, intellectual or religious well-being.
Indeed, it may well be doubted whether the phrase natural
guardianof an estate is not utterly unknown in the law. In the
complicated system of the Enlish common law there were a
variety of guiardians-by nature, by nurture, in socage, chivalry,
&c. The father was guardian by nature, but that guardianship
extended only over the person, and did not continue until the
infant attained his majority The abrogation of some of the
feudal. rights anad prerogatives necessarily annulled some of
these species of guardianship and by the Statiite of 12 Car. II.,
c. 24, authorizing a father by will or deed to appoint a guardian,
such guardian might be continued until the infant attained the
age of twenty-one* Vide," Co. Litt. 106, a. s. 123; Hag, n., ad
idem, 67, 68; 2 Fonbl. 240, 244.
If these views be correct, it necessarily results that the mattel
in controversy in this case is not, as the learned counsel contends, the simple "right of a father to the custody, comfort, and
society of his children,"
Even were this the real aspect and character of the case, it by
no means follows that this Court is incompetent to exercise an
appellate jurisdiction.
The language of the Act of April 2, 1816, which limits the
right of appeal from the Circuit Court of this district to cases in
which the matter in dispute is of the value of $1,000, has received
a judicial construction in this Court. 8 Peters, 44, Lee vs. Lee.
It was the case of a petition for freedom. On p. 48, the Court
says: "The matter in dispute is the freedom of the petitioner.
The judgment of the Court below is against their claims to freedom. The matter in dispute is, therefore, to the plaintiffs in
error the value of their freedom, and that is not susceptible of

DECEI[BER TERM, 1862.
De Krafft vs. Barney.
pecuniary valuation." The Court entertained no doubt of its
jurisdiction.
If in this case on the part of the appellee the matter in con.
troversy was the right of the father to the "custody, comfort,
and society of his children," as is contended, it is at -least equally
apparent that on the other side the case involves, so far as a
guardian can control, mismanage, or impair the estate of his
wards, the misapplication and misappropriation of the income
resulting from it, their maintenance and support, their domestic,
family, and religious education and training, either by precept
or example, considerations of infinitely weightier importance
than any of a purely pecuniary character. If the value of freedom to one held as a slave, although not susceptible of valtiation in money, constitutes a value which, as the Court says, in
Lee vs. Lee, leaves no doubt as to the appellate jurisdiction of
this Court, surely the physical well-being, the proper maintenance, moral, intellectual, and religious training of four infant
children, two males and two females, most imperatively invoke
the exercise of all the authority of this Court in their behalf
and for their protection.
It is also attempted to be shown, that tle appellant has no
legal or equitable interest in the mdtter in controversy; that he
has none'of a personal kind, inasmuch as he declined the position of guardian; none in a representative character, as "he
nowhere appears as prochein ami." In a pecuniary point of
view, he has no interest, and he has presented none. But he is
the only near male relative to the late Mary De Krafft, and on
the mother's side of the children of the deceased. Moreover, it
appears, both from the language of his petitions to the Orphans'
Court as well as from the opinion of that Court, that he appeared
as "Prochein ami." It is manifest that not De Krafft, in his
individual character, asserting any individual interest, is the appellant in this cause, but the four orphan children, as with an
allowable departure from the precise meaning of the word
orphan, they-sometimes appear to be designated on this recoid,
through his instrumentality, as their "prochein ami and relative,"
are the parties to this suit.

SUPREME COURT.
De iKrafft vs. Barney.
As regards them, the matter in controversy is the management
rnd control over their property, the value of which is not less
-han 60,000 dollars-the providing them a proper maintenance,
an education suitable to their circumstances and situation in life.
The case as presented in the Orphans' Court, and now appearing
on this record, involves the question whether this appellee, the
father, is not alleged and proved to be from all his antecedents
utterly unfit to assume such high responsibilities. The decree
of the Orphans' Court has adjudged him to be wholly disqualified, and it appears from the opinions appended to the appellee's
brief on this motion, that the order of reversal by the Circuit
Court proceeded on the ground that the Orphans' Court had no
jurisdiction in the case.
This, it is alleged, is xota final judgment. It is manifest that
it is not an interlocutory judgment, order or decree. It is
equally obvious that it is-a most singular one on the facts presented on the record. A petition is presented by these minor
children through their next friend, averring the unfitness of their
Ihther to perform the office of guardian, and asking the Court to
appoint some suitable individual to that office. The Orphans'
Court, after a laborious investigation, adjudge the allegations
against the father to be substintiated by the testimony, and proceed in conformity with the prayer of the petition to appoint a
gentleman of the most unexceptionable character to the position
;f guardian. The Circuit Court reverse this order, on the gruund
;hat .the Orphans' Court under the laws of Maryland, now in force
in this District, had no jurisdiction to entertain such an application, or to grant the lrayer as desired.
One accustomed to the ancient and well established course of
proceeding in analogous cases, would have supposed that the
Orphans' Cburt being thus adjudged to have assumed a jurisdic.
tipn not conferred upon it by law, would simply have been directed to dismiss the petition. It would certainly have been a
fair inference that if the petitioner was improperly before that
Court, if he had no case on which that Court could rightfully act,
if the petition asked: that which.the Court could not legally grant
the only proper course would be to dismiss it.

blACE MBMR TERM, 1S62.

718

De Kraft vs. Barney.
Unfortunately for the case of the appellee, the most careful
examination of the record discloses not the shadow~of evidence
showing that he ever did apply "to be permitted to give bond for
the performance of his trusts as natural guardian of the estates.
of his infant children," or any other bond for any purpose what
ever; nor does the final decree, or any other order or decree to
be found inthis record, convey the slightest idea that any such
application had been made or rejected.
The order of the Court, as given in the record, is wholly silent
as to both these points. Unless, however, this appellee did present his case in some form or other, and the decision of the
Orphans' Court had, hs the one Version of the decree of the Circuit Court assumes, it is plain that no such directions as are
contained in them, as to what the Orphans' Court should do, can
be maintained as right. It may be incidehtally noticed here
that the power which the statute confers upon the Orphans'
Court to require a bond from the father as natural guardian of
his children, can only'be exercised "on* the application of any
friend of the infant." See Act of 1798, c. 101, S. C. 12 sec. 3.
No such application has been made by any one; the Court
cannot, ex mero notu, cite the father to give such bond; the
order of the Court is therefore warranted by no law.
It is argued in the brief that this decree or order is not final.
because further proceedings are directed.
In a large proportion of the cases brought before this Court
by writ of error or appeal, there are further proceedings in execution of the judgment of this Court. The order in this cause,
however, effectually puts this appellant and the case out of Court.
He can have, and the cause he represents can have, no ionger a
standing in Court. It is impossible to conceive of a decision
against him more decidedly a final one.
It is unnecessary to show any actual abuse of his authority as
4
natural guardian by Barney.
2 Story Eq. Jur., ยง 341, note 4. Guardianship, by nature is
of the heir apparent (at common law). It belongs tl the father
or mother. It extends no farther thali the custody of the infant's..

SUPREME COURT.
De Kraft vs. Barney.
person. Guardianship by nurture lasts only till fourteen, and
extends only over the person.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY. This case cannot be distinguisheI
from the case of Barry vs. Mercein, (5 How., 103). The contro
versy in that case was between a husband and his divorced wife,
respecting the guardianship of a child of the marriage who was
still an infant.
They were living apart, and each of them claimed the right
to the guardianship. And after full argument, the Court held
that in order to give this Court jurisdiction under the 22d section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, the matter in dispute must be
money, or some right, the value of which could be calculated
and ascertained in money. And as the matter in controversy
between the parties was not.money, nor a right which could be
measured by money, but was a contest between the father and
mother of the infant upon other considerations, the appeal was
dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
In the case before the Oourt, it is admitted that De Krafft, the
appellant, has no pecuniary interest in the controversy. He appears as prochein ami for the children of Barney, whose wife is
dead, and from whom the children inherited a large property.
De Krafft alleges that Barney, from his character and habits, is
unfit to be trusted with the guardianship of the persons or property of his children, and prays that some other persons suitable
and trustworthy may be appointed by the Orphans' Court. The
guardianship of the persons and property of the children is,
therefore, the only matter in dispute, not on account of any
pecuniary value attached to the office, but upon other considerations. The case is the same in principle with that of Barry vs.
Afercein, above referred to, and the appeal to this Court, for the
same reason, must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

