SUPREML COURT
Moran vs. Commissioners of Miani County.
PER CURIAM.-Let this appeal be dismissed. It has not
been prosecuted in the manner directed nor within the time
limited by the Act of Congress, which requires that the transcript shall be filed at the next succeeding term after the appeal
is taken

MORAN ET AL. vs. THE COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI COUNTY.

1 Acts of incorporation and other statutes granting special privileges are to be construed strictly, and whatever is not given

in unequivocal terms is withheld.
2. But this principle must be applied with reference to the subject
matter as a whole, and not in such manner as to defeat the
general intent of the Legislature.
3. A county or other municipal corporation being authorized by

statute to borrow money and issue bonds for the payment

thereof, if the bonds be made and delivered reciting the facts,
which show them to have been regularly issued, the county is
estopped to deny their regularity or to assert that they were
.not made in conformity t- the statute.
4. Such bonds, with interest

varrants annexed, are commercial

securities; the holder of them has a full title; and as against
one who has taken them in good faith, the county cannot set
up the equities which might have been available against the
original payee.
Error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Indiana.
Hr. Porter,of Indiana, for Plaintiffs in Error.
Ar. Ross, of Indiana, contra.
Mr. Justice WAYNE. This cause has been fully argued. It
is an action to recover the interest in arrears on coupons annexed
to bonds which were issued by Miami County, payable to the
Peru and Indianapolis Railroad Company, or bearer, and which
is declared in the bonds to be given for a loan of money. We

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

728

'Horan vs. Commissioners of Miami County.

are relieved from the task of tonsiderinig several of the arguments of counsel and the pleadings on the record, believing, as
we do, that the defendants are estopped from denying, the declarations as to the purpose and cause for which the bonds were
issued, and that the coupon holders had a right to infer from the
face of the bonds that they had been regularly issued by the
County of Miami.
It is not a new case to this Court, either in its facts or the
principle involved. The object of this Court has been in ca'vs
of a like kind, and it is still its purpose, to give to the contracts
of counties for the purchase of railroad stocks and for borrow-'
ing money, to aid in the construction of railroads aid other
internal improvements, a strict interpretation of the legislative
acts empowering them to do one or the other; but at the same
time to give protection to the bonafide holders of such contracts
as have been put on sale in the money market, by corporations
or by counties acting corporately, against their efforts to be
relieved from the responsibilities of official acts, in putting such
papers into circulation, for capitalists to invest money in them,
on assurances that the principal and interest would be paid
accordingly.
We repeat now, as appropriate to the subject-matter of the
case in hand, as it was in the case in which this Court said it,
that corporations are as strongly bound as individuals are to a
careful adherence to truth in their dealings with mankind, and
that they cannot by their representations or silence involve
others in onerous engagements, and then defeat the calculations
and claims their own conduct had superinduced. Zabriskie vs.
Cleveland, Columbus and CincinnatiRailroad Company, (23 How.,

400). In ouf construction of the Act of Pennsylvania to incorporate the Northwestern Railroad Company, the Court said, that
neither privileges, powers, nor authorities, can pass, unless they
are given in unambiguous words, and that an act giving special
privileges must be construed strictly. That in case a sentence
is capable of having two meanings,. a construction must be given
favorable to the public. However, that in applying those principles of construction, -it must be done with reference to the

SUPREME COURT.
Horan vs. Commissionersof Miami Coun*.
subject-matter contemplated by the Legislature as a whole, so
as not to allow its manifest purpose and design to be defeated
by denying the use of means by which the main obje.t could
only be accomplished.
In our leading case upon the subject, that of the Commissioners
of Knox County vs. Aspinwall et al., (21 How., 539), the suit bay
ing been brought for the interest due upon coupons annexed to
one hundred and forty-two bonds, in which the main ground of
defence was, that a Board of Commissioners had not power to
execute them, and that on such account they were not binding
upon the County of Knox, our answer and judgment was, that
the bonds on their face import a compliance with the law under
which they were issued; and that the purchasers of them were
not bound to look further for evidence of a compliance with the
conditions annexed to the goTant of power to issue them.
In confirmaion of such conclusion we then cited the case of
the Royal British Bank vs. Tarward,(6 Ellis & Blackburne, 327),
decided in 1856 in the Exchequer Chambers, in-error from the
Court of Queen's Bench, the decision of which we will now give
in full, on account of the principle and its peculiar application
to the pleadings in the case before us. Jervis, C. J. "I am of
the opinion that the judgme. t of the Court of Queen's Bench
ought to be affirmed. I am inclined to think the question which
has been principally argued, both here and in that Court, does
not necessarily arise, and need not be determinea. My impression is, though I will not state it is a fixed opinion, that the
resolution set forth in the replication goes far enough to satisfy
the requisites of the deed" of settlement. The deed allows the
directors to borrow on bond such sums of money as shall, from
time to time, by a resolution passed at a general meeting of the
Company, be authorized to be borrowed, and the replication
shows a resolution passed at a general meeting authorizing the
directors to borrow on bond such sums for such periods and
rates of interest as they might deem expedient, in accordance
with the deed of settlement and the Act of Parliament; but the
resolution does not otherwise define the amount to be borrowed.
That seems -o me to be enough. If that be so. the other ques

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Moran vs. Commissionersof Miami County.
tion does not arise. But whether it be so or not, we need not
decide, for it seems to us that the plea, whether we consider it a
confession and avoidance, or a special non estfactum, does not
raise any objection to the advance as against the Company. We
may here take for granted that the dealings with these companies are not like dealings with other partnerships, and that the
parties dealing with them are bound to read the statute and deed
of settlement. But they are not bound to do more. And the
party here, on reading the deed of settlement, would find, not a
prohibition from borrowing, but a permission to do so on certain
conditions. Finding that the authority might be made complete by a resolution, he would have a right to infer the fact -of
a resolution authorizing that, which on the face of the document, appeared to be legitimately done."
At an ensuing term of this Court we had under consideration
the case of Bissell vs. City of .effersonville, and it was fully discussed by us in connection with the English and our own case
of Aspinwall, &c. We said there: "When the contract has
been ratified and affirmed, and the bond issued and delivered to
Ihe Railroad Company in exchange for stock, it was then too late
Io call in question the fact determined by the Common Council
.- and, afortiori,it is too late to raise that question in a case like
Ihe present, where it is shown that the plaintiffs are holders for
'ralue. Certified copies of the proceedings were exhibited to the
plaintiffs at the time they received the londs, &c., and whether
we look to the. bonds or recorded proceedings, there is nothing
to indicate any irregularity, or to raise a suspicion that the
bonds had not been issued pursuant to lawful authority. We
hold that the Company and its assigns, under the circumstances
of the case, had a right to assume that they imported verity." It
would be difficult to find cases more controlling of that before'
as than those which have just been cited.
The same ruling was made by the Court in the case of the
Commissioners of the County of Knox vs. Wallace, (2 How., 546)
It was substantially repeated in Aspinwall et al. vs. The Commissioners of the County of Davis. That was brought to this
Court from the Oircuit Court of Indiana upon a certificate of a

SUPREME COURT.
Moran vs. Commissioners of Miami County.
division of opinion between the judges. The points were,
whether by the Act of Incorporation of the Ohio and Mississippi
Railroad, and the amendments to it of January, 1849, any right
to county subscriptions had been vested in the Company, to exclude the operation of the Constitution of Indiana, which took
effect on the 1st of November, 1851, and whether the Railroad
Company had acquired any such right to subscription of the
defendant as was protected by the Constitution of the State.
Both questions were answered negatively. But we said it was
done reluctantly, for the subscriptions to the stock by the Board
of Commissioners were made in good faith to the Railroad
Company, and also sold by it,and purchased by the plaintiff in
confidence of tbheir vulidity.
With these cases on our minds, we will now proceed to give
the facts and circumstances of the present case, that it may be
seen whether there is any thing in them to take it out of our
decisions.
The abstracts of it by both counsel, are so similar that either
may be used without giving to the other any advantage
It is an action of assumpsit, brought by the plaintiff in error,
on ifterest warrants or coupons, annexed to fifteen bonds of the
county of Miami for $1,000 each, bearing date the 21st of
August, 1851, redeemable in ten years from the 1st of September following. The bonds were payable to the Peru and
Indianapolis Railroad Company, or bearer, at the office of the
Treasurer of Miami County, in Peru, bearing an interest of ten
per cent. per annum, payable semi-annnally at the same place.
The suit is for a failure to pay coupons for the years 1857 and
1858, amounting to $3,000, the interest accrued before having
been paid by the Railroad Company. It is averred in the declaration that the bonds had been issued by Miami County, in
pursuance of powers conferred on its Board of Commissioners
by the laws of Indiana, and particularly by an Act approved
January 6th, 1849, entitled an Act to authorize the Commissioners of Hamilton, Miami, and Tipton Counties to borrow
money. Howard County was afterwards permitted to borrow
money
The language of the act authorizes the loaning of

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

727

Horan r's. Commissio wers of Miami County.
money to the Board to any amoint not exceeding $50,000, from
time to time, at any rate of interet, not more than ten per cent.
per annum. The second section is, that all persons loaning
money to the counties or either of them, are authorized to receive any rate of interest upon such loans as may be -agreed
upon, not exceeding ten per centum.
The Peru and Indianapolis Railroad Company was incorporated in January, 1846. The 28th section of the charter
authorizes the County Commissioners of each county through
which the road shall pass to take, by an order for either
county, as much stock in it as they may think proper. After
the act permitting the counties to borrow money had been
passed, the Railroad Company, urged by the condition of its
finances, appointed a committee to apply to the auditors of the
Counties of 'Hamilton, Miami, and. Howard, to call special sessions of the Boards of the Commissioners of their respective
counties.tb consider proposals. which they wished to make. In
a meeting afterwards held, the committee stated that they were
required to ask from the counties additional subscriptions to the
stock of the Railroad Company. From the Counties of Hamilton
and Miami respectively, twenty thousand dollars, and from
Howard County ten thousand dollars. The committee then said
that their subscriptions would be received, if the respective
counties would issue bonds bearing ten per cent. interest per
annum, redeemable in ten years, with coupons annexed to them,
which the railroad would receive if the bonds were made payable to the company, or bearer, for the purpose of borrowing
money upon -them, to be applied to the payment of the stock
which either of the Qounties should subscribe for. As a further
inducement to the counties to do so, the committee stated that
upon the subscription being miade, and the bonds being issued,
that the Railroad would iss-de stock to the county for its subscription, credited in full to the amount of its bonds; and for,
the issue of the bonds, that the President of the lRailroad would
execute an obligation binding the company to pay the interest
annually upon the bonds as it became due, until the principal
became payable and then tie principal also; but that when

SUPREME COURT.
Moran vs. Commissioners of Miami County.
both principal and interest bad been paid. by the Railroad Company, that the counties would return to it the stock certificates
which they had received when the bonds were issued if it did
n6t wish to retain it. And it was further agreed between the
parties, if the counties, or either of them, should at any time
before the redemption of the county bonds by the railroad cumpany elect to surrender to it its obligation, and assume the
payment of the interest that shall accrue afterwards, and the
principal also when it became due, that the stock issued to the
counties should become absolute in their favor, entitling them
to all future dividends on the stock. But that until such assumption had been undertaken and performed, that the stock
was merely to be held as a security by the counties for the
performance of the stipulation of the Railroad Company, but not
entitling them to dividends, though it would give them the
right to vote the stock in elections for directors. These proposals were considered by the Auditor and Board of Commissioners
of Miami County. It resulted in an issue by them of twenty
bonds, one thousand dollars each, in which it is declared in the
bon Is "that there is due to the President and Directors of the
Peru and Indianapolis Railroad Company, or bearer, one thousand dollars from the County of Miami, -payable in ten years
from the first of September, 1851," this bond being issued for a
lrina of the amount to the county, as authorized by an act of
the State of Indiana, permitting the Commissioners of Hamilton,
Miami and Tipton Counties to borrow money. The coupons or
interest warrants annexed to the bonds are in these words
AUDITOR'S OFFICE, Ji;ami County, Peru, Indiana.
The Treasurer of said county will pay the legal holder hereof
one hundred dollars on the first day of September, 1857, on
presentation thereof, being for interest due on the obligatica of
said county, No. 16, given to the Peru and Indianapolis Rail
road Company. By order of the Commissioners.
IRA MENDENHALL, County Auditor.
The interest warrants, payable on the 1st Septenber, 18.58, arc
like the preceding; and others of the same kind, are annexed
to the other fifteen bonds legally held by the plaintiff in error.
-

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

.729

Moran vs. Commissioners of Miami County.

The bonds were delivered, to the Railroad Company, were
received by it in payment of the certificate of stock, and the
County of Miami was credited with $20,000 upon the certificate
The Railroad Company then offered them for sale, transferred
them to purchasers as commercial securities by endorsement,
and the plaintiff in error bought them in the full confidence that
the consideration for which they had been issued was truly expressed on the face of the bonds. The county retained the stock
certificate and voted it on the election for directors as its own.
Thus matters stood between the Railroad .Company and the"
County of Miami, both being satisfied with what had been done,
and that they had acted conformably to their respective powers,
until the Railroad. ceased to pay to the holders the interest
warrants.
Upon the trial of the case, the defendants filed a plea of nonassumpsit, and the plaintiff joined issue by a similiter. At the
same time the defendants put in several pleas, affirming that
several irregularities had been committed by the Board of Commissioners of Miami County and the Railroad Company, in their
negotiation and proceedings for the issue of the bonds and
interest warrants, by the force of which it is declared that the
bonds were void at law, and that they were purchased by the
plaintiff with notice of these irregularities.
We have examined these pleas critically, and find the facts
stated- in each to be imputations, only calculated to raise supposed equities between Miami County and the Railroad Company, in which the plaintiffs in error, as the legal holders of the
bonds and coupons, can in no event have any concern, even if
it be admitted that they had notice of such irregularities when
they bought, as all of them relate to circumstances contradic.
tory to the declarations upon the face of the bonds.
Though the proposals, or contract as it is termed in the record,
for additional subscriptions of stock are confusedly expressed.
there can be no doubt that it was its intention to solicit subscriptions, and that it was so understood by the Board of Commissioners of Miami County when -it issued the bonds; and that in
furtherance of suci purpose, the parties proceeded to devise the

SUPREME COURT.
Moran vs. Commissioners of Miami Counly.

means to pay for the subscription by borrowing money. In
doing that there was nothing irregular in the transaction. Both
parties seem to us to have acted within their respective powers;
the Railroad within its charter to allow the counties to subscribe
for stock in it, and the County of Miami to do so and according
to the power given to it to borrow money. When the Railroad
undertook to pay the interest upon the treasury bonds and the
principal also when that became due, it was substantially a loan
to the county from the time of the execution of the bonds until
their maturity, though it was provided that the county might
then upon the cancellation of these bonds decline to return the
certificate of stock which had been issued to it.
The narrative of the negotiation which led to the issue of the
bonds and interest warrants, brings the case, by the declaration
in the bond as to the object and purpose for which they were
issued, so entirely within what we have shown to be the law in
such cases as to the inference which may be made from the face
of the bond, of its having been regularly executdd by the party
having authority to do it, that we are relieved from the task of
considering much of the argument made to us by counsel; and
from examining the special pleas which were put in by the
defendant, or the reasoning of the Court upon the third and
fourth pleas upon which it rested its judgment for the dismissal
of the plaintiff's case. If the contract and bonds are considered
in connection with the authority of the Board of Commissioners
of Miami County to issue them, it must be obvious that several
of the points presented to us by the counsel of the defendant do
not arise in the case. For instance, whether the Board of Commissioners of Miami County had power to issue them at the time
and for the purpose for which in was done, or that the bonds and
interest warrants, by having been endorsed to the plaintiff by
the Railroad Company were subjected to the revised statutes of
Indiana, making certain promissory notes, &c., negotiable by
endorsement thereon; so as to vest the interest in the contract
to the assignee, and permitting the obligor to set up any defence
to the obligation against the assignee, that he could have done
against the original obligee. or that it was necessary to them

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

731

Moran vs. Commissioners of Miami County.

that the bonds were issued by virtue of a special statute, and if
that did not exist, that the bonds may be held to be void.
It is true that all of these points ware as well argued by the
counsel of the defendants as the circumstances of the case per.
mitted, but in every instance, either of argument or of pleading,
the point of estoppel, as made by the plaintiff's counsel in the
Court below, and renewed here by him with vigor by the citation of many cases, was not directly met by the counsel of the
defendant. The first point of the plaintiff's counsel was, that
even if the bonds had been issued irregularly, and not in strict
conformity with the power of the county to borrow money, that
the defendant is, nevertheless, estopped by the bonds themselves,
which, on their face, express that they were issued for a loan of
the amount to the County, as authorized by the Act of the Gene.
ral Assembly to borrow money, and that such bondg being
habitually received and passed as commercial securities, and
being bona fide in the hands of the plaintiff, that they were
entitled to recover the amount of interest sued for, Dotwithstanding there might be equities between the original parties to
the transaction. It is not necessary for us to follow out the
-plaintiff's argument in this particular, thinking it, as we do, coilelusive. We think that the bonds in this case, with interest
warrants annexed, are commercial securities, though they are
not in the accustomed forms of promissory notes or bills of
exchange; that the parties intended them to be passed from
hand to hand tc raise money upon them, so that a ful title was
intended to be conferred on any person who became the legal
holder of them, and that the original maker under such circumstances has no equity to prevent the recovery of the interest.
But the real point in this case, as made by the counsel of the
plaintiff in error, and sustained in argument by numerous adjudicated cases, was, that as it is declared in the bonds that they
were issued by the Board of Commissioners of Miami County
by order or resolution, pursuant to the statute authorizing the
County to borrow money, passed at a regular meeting of the
Board, to be used by the .Peru and Indianapolis Railroad,
payable to the Company. or bearer, for a loan to the County that

SUPREME COURT.
Moran vs. Commissioners of Miami County.
the bona fide holders of the bonds, whether so by endorsement
or delivery, had a right to infer that the bonds had been lawfully issued, by which the County of Miami is estopped in a suit
for the recovery of the interest from denying by pleas that its
bonds had been issued to the Peru and Indianapolis Railroad
for a loan of money to the County of Miami. We think and
adjudge that the recitals in the bonds are conclusive, constituting an estoppel in pais upon the defendants in this suit. In
support of this conclusion, we cite the following cases: Girard
vs. Bradley, (7 Ind., ยง 600); Reeves vs. Andrews, (Ibid., 207);
Frances vs. Porter, (213); Llfay vs. Johnson, (3 Ind., 448); Trimble vs. State, (4 Black, 435); (8 Blackford, 258); Ryan vs. Vanladingham, (7 Ind., 416; 24 How, 37.5); (23 How., 381); (29
Connecticut Rep.); Society of Saving vs. City of Yew London,
(103); (1 Vesey, senior, 123, 8 Blackf., 47). It is the opinion of
this Court that the defendant is estopped from setting up the
defences taken as set forth in the transcript of the record of this
case, and that the judgment of the Court below sustaining the
demurrer should be, and is hereby reversed and annulled, and
that the case should be remanded to that Court, with directions
to award a venire facias de novo.

