SUPREME COURT.
Gilman vs. City of Sheboygan.

GILMAN vs. THE CITY OF SHEBOYGAN.
I Where a State Legislature authorizes a City to borrow money,
issue bonds and tax all the property in the city to pay, it,
this is not a contract with the bondholders, that the - State
shall not afterwards exercise her power to modify the taxation,
or exempt portions of the property from taxation.
2. The fact that a State by an Act of her Legislature, has stripped
herself of any portion of her sovereignty, is not to be assumed
unless the language used is too clear to admit of doubt.
8. If such a contract existed and if a subsequent law exempted
some portion of the property, it does not lie in the mouth of a
property-holder in the City to complain of it on the score of
bad faith to the bondholders, if the bondholders themselves
are silent.
4. A law authorizing a public corporation to contract a debt, and
pay it by means of a tax, is not liable to the objection, that it
takes private property for public purposes without compensation ; for that clause of the Constitution is a limitation, not
on the taxing power, but on the right of eminent domain.
5. The levying of taxes by a public corporation under the authority
of State law, is the exercise of the taxing power, as much as
the taxation of the citizens directly, for the support of the
State Government.
6. The Constitution of Wisconsin, requires the rule of taxation to
be uniform; and this means, that all kinds of property not
absolutely exempt, must be taxed alike, by the same standard
of valuation, equally with other taxable property, and co-extensively with the Territory to which it applies
7. A tax for a special purpose upon the City of Sheboygan and
levied exclusively upon real property, was a discrimination in
favor personal property, in conflict with the Constitution ot
the State, and therefore void.
Appeal from the District Court of the United States for the
District of Wisconsin.
Mr. Doolittle, of Wisconsin, for Appellant.
Mr. Howe, of Wisconsin, for Appellee.

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

511

Gilvman vs. City of Sheboygan.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE. This isa suit iequitybrought here
by appeal from the District Court of the United States for the
District of Wisconsin. The bill states as follows:
The complainant is the owner of a large amount of real estate
in the City of Sheboygan, wlhich is described in the bill.
On the 17th of January, 1854, the Legislature passed an act
entitled "an Act to authorize the City of Sheboygan to aid in
the construction of a railroad." This Act authorized the Commissioners named in it to borrow $100,000 upon the credit of the
City to be invested in the .capital stock of a Railroad Company,
authorized to construct a railroad from the City of Sheboygan.
westwardly by way of Fon-du-lac to the Mississippi River, and
to issue therefor the bonds of the City according to the pro.
visions of the act.
The act further provided that. the City should annually levy
a tax upon all the taxable property of the City sufficient, in addition to the dividends upon the shares of its stock in the Coin
pany, to pay the interest upon the bonds.
The act also authorized the City Council to submit to the
qualified voters of the City the question whether the further
sum of $100,000 should be raised and invested in the same manner as the first $100,000.
By an act of the Legislature of the 28th of March, 1856,
entitled, "An Act to authorize the City of Sheboygan to aid in
the construction of the Sheboygan and Mississippi Railroad," the
City Council was authorized to subscribe $50,000 to the capital
stock of the Company, and to increase the amounp of subscription from time to time until the aggregate should reach the
sum of $100,000.

The instalments upon the stock subscribed

were to be paid by the levy of an annual tax upon all the real
estate in the City-not exceeding $25,000 in any one yearuntil the whole amount of the subscriptions should be paid.
Under these Acts the City has made loans and issued its
bonds therefor to the amount of $200,000.
The Legislature passed a subsequent Act, which is as follows:
"Section 1. All taxes hereafter levied by the Common Council
of the City of Sheboygan for the (payment) of principal oy

SUPREME COURT.
Gilman vs. City of Sheboygan.
interest of any bonds issued or to be issued by said City to aid
in the construction of any railroad, plank road, or for any improvement of the harbor at the mouth of the Sheboygan River,
shall be levied by said Council on the real estate of said City
exclusively.
"Sec. 2. All acts or parts of acts that conflict with the
provisions of this act are hereby repealed.
"See. 3. This act shall take effect and be in force from and
after its passage.
"Approved March 7, 1857."
In the year 1857, the City Council under the last named act,
levied a tax upon all the real estate within the limits of the City
of six cents upon each dollar of the valuation thereof "for its
harbor loans, railroad and plank road bonds," "and did not levy
said sum or any part thereof upon any other kind of property
within said City of Sheboygan for the said harbor loans, railroad
and plank road bonds, but levied the tax for the payment of the
interest upon those specific objects entirely and solely out of the
real estate within said City limits ; and that the real estate above
stated and set forth in this complaint was included in and was
taxed at the rate aforesaid, and for the purpose aforesaid."
At the time this tax was levied, there was personal property
in the city of Sheboygan to the amount of three or four hundred
thousand dollars, liable to taxation, and upon which no tax was
levied for either of said purposes for the year 1857. The Act
of March 7th, 1857, and the tax levied under it,
are alleged to
be void. Defendant, Geele, is the Treasurer of said City, and as
such authorized to execute deeds for land sold for taxes when
the time for redemption expires. The defendants' property in
the City has been sold for said tax and bought in by the City.
Geele threatens to execute deeds to the City for the same. The
time for redemption is about to expire.
The deeds, it is alleged, will cast a cloud upon complainant's
title, embarrass him in disposing of the property, and render it
less valuable to him. The *prayer of the bill is, that the Treasurer be perpetually enjoined from executing, and the City from
receiving, sucl= deeds, and for general relief. The complainant

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Gilman vs. City of Sheboygan.
'subsequently filed an amended bill, in which it was claimed that
the Act of 1857, and the tax levied under it, were void, because
the Act of 1854 provided that a tax should be levied upon all
the taxable property of the City for the payment of said bonds,
that the bonds were issued and taken upon the faith of that act
and that its provisions constitute . contract with the bond
holders, which the Act of 1857 seeks to violate.
The defendants demurred, and the Court sustained the de
murrer.
Was there such a contract as is averred in the amended bill ?
The Act of 1854 authorized the borrowing of money, the
issuing of bonds, and the levying of a tax upon all the property
in the City, for the purposes specified. The imposition, modifi
cation, and removal of taxes, and the exemption of property from
such burdens, is an ordinary exercise of the power of State
sovereignty. There is no pledge, express or implied, that this
power should not thereafter be exercised.
Admitting that the State could enter into such an engagement,
there is no evidence that it did. This fact-should never be
assumed unless the language used be too clear to admit of doubt.
If the agreement existed, the complainant is not iha position to
make the question. There is no allegation that the tax levied
is insufficient. We hear of no complaint from the bondholders.
They are not before us. It does not belong to the complainant.
vicariously, to enforce their contract and protect their rights.
The objection, that these acts take private property for public
purposes without compeiisation, and hence are within the prohibition of the State constitution upon that subject, is.also without
foundation. That clause of the Constitution refers solely to the
exercise, by the State, of the right of eminent domain. The
People vs. The Mayor of Brooklyn, (4 Corns:, 419).
Is the Act of 1857 invalid, because it requires the tax in
question to be levied exclusively upon the real estate of the
city ?
The provisions of the State Constitution, to wbich our attention has been called, as bearing upon .the subject, are the
following:
VOL. IL
83

SUPREME COURT
Gilman vs. City of Sheboygan.
Art. VIII. "See. 1.-The rule of taxation shall be uniform.
and taxes shall be levied upon such property as the Legislature
shall prescribe."
Art. XI. "See. 3.-It shall be the duty of the Legislature, and
they are hereby required, to provide for the organization of'
cities and incorporated villages, and to restrict their power of
taxation, assessment, borrowing money, contracting debts, and
loaning their credit, so as to prevent abuses in assessments and
taxation, and in contracting debts, by such municipal corpo
rations."

The Revised Statutes of Wisconsin, title 5, chap. 18, page
200, provide as follows:
"See. 1. All property, real and personal, within this State, not
expressly exempted therefrom, shall be subject to taxation in
the manner provided by law."
"See. 4. The following property shall be exempt from
taxation:
"All property, real and personal, of the United States and
of *this State. All public or corporate property of the several
counties, cities, villages, towns and school districts in this
State."

*

*

*

"All property exempt by law from execution, not exceeding in
value $200.
"The personal property of all literary, benevolent, charitable
and scientific institutions within this State, and such real estate
as shall be actually occupied by them for the purposes for which
they have been or shall be organized."
"All houses of public worship, and the lots on which they are
situate," &c.
"All public libraries, and the real and personal property
belonging to or connected with the same.
"The property of all Indians, who are not citizens, except the
lands held by them by purchase.
"The personal property of persons, who, by reason of in
firmity, age and poverty, may, in the opinion of the assessors, be
unable to contribute towards the public charges.

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

515

Gilman vs. City of Bheboygan.
"All property, rdal and personal, belonging to any agricultural

bociety in this State."

*

*

*

No other property is exempted.
In Weeks vs. The City of filwaukie, et al., (10 Wis. Rep., 242,
Mr. Justice Payne, referring to "the provision of Article II.,
Sec. 3, requiring the Legislature, in establishing municipal corporations, 'to restrict their powers of taxation so as to prevent
abuses, &c.," says, "Restrictions may be and undoubtedly are
necessary to prevent abuses which may not amount to a violation of the rule of uniformity. There may be uniform abuse of
the taxing power by reckless and improvident management on
the part -ofthese local authorities, and I think the provision last
mentioned was designed to give further protection-in addition
to that furnished by the rule of uniformity."
Such was the unanimous judgment of the Court. Concurring
in that opinion, we lay this section of the Constitution out of
view.
In Knowlton vs. The Supervisors of Rock County, (9 Wis. Rep.,
410,) the section requiring uniformity of taxation underwent an
able and exhaustive examination. The Court affirmed the
following propositions:
"The levying of taxes by the authorities of a county, city, or
town, for their support is as much an exercise of the taxing
power as when levied directly by the State for its support. The
State acts by the municipal governments, and their acts in levying taxes are as much the act of the State as if the State acted
by its own officers.
"The Constitution of the State requires, as a rule in levying.
taxes, that the valuation must be uniform and in all cases alike
or equal, operating alike upon all the taxable property thnough.
out the territorial limits of the State or municipality within
which the tax is to be raised. And where the Legislature pre.
scribed a different rule, the act is a departure from the constitu
tion and therefore void.
"The Constitution has fixed one unbending uniform rule of
taxation for the State, and property cannot be classifiel and
taxed as classed by different rules.

SUPREME 0OURT.
Gilman vs. City of Sbeboygan.
"The provision of the Constitution, that taxes shall be levied
upon such property as the Legislature shall prescribe, does not
sanction 'a discrimination which provides for taxing a particular
kind of property for the support of Government by a different
rule from that by which other property is taxed; for when thu
kind of property is prescribed the rule of taxation must be
uniform. All kinds of property must be taxed uniformly, or be
absolutely exempt."
In this case, under the provisions of the charter of the City
of Janesville, lands within the City limits laid out into City lots,
and other lands not so laid out, had been taxed at different
rates, and the property of the plaintiff bad been sold for the nonpayment of the taxes. The Court held the tax void, and enjoined
the treasurer from executing deeds to the tax purchasers.
In the case of Weeks vs. The Cty of .ilwaukie et al., (10 Wis.
Rep., 242,) the preceding case was considered and approved by
the Court. The proposition that the constitutional provisior
requiring the "rule of taxation to be uniform" extends to municipal corporations, and that the constitutional provision requiring
the Legislature to restrict their powers of taxation was only
intended to furnish a further protection, were expressly and
unanimously re-affirmed. They held further, that where the
assessors of the City of Milwaukie, in obedience to an ordinance
of that City, omitted to assess property to the value of $150,000,
which ought to have been assessed, and that property was thereby
exempted from taxation, the omission was fatal to the entire tax,
and that the complainant's taxes being increased by the omission
he was entitled to an injunction to restrain the sale of his lands
for such illegal taxes.
In Sanderson vs. Cross, (10 Wis. Rep., 282), the doctines of
Knowlton vs. The Supervisors of Rock County, were again unanimously approved.
In their opinion the Court adopt the following language, from
the City of Zanesville vs. Richard3, (5 Ohio State Rep., 589)
"The General Assembly is no longer invested with the discretion
to apportion the tax, and to determine upon.what property and
in what ,proportion the burdsn shall be laid. A uniform rate

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

517

Oilman vs. City of Sheboygan.

per cent. must be levied upon all properiy subject to taxation
according to its true valuation money, so that all may bear an
equal burden."
The Ohio case was decided under provisions in the Constitution of that State similar to those in the Constitution of Wisconsin, to which we have referred.
In the Attorney. General vs. The Winnebago Iace and Fox
River Plank Road Company, (11 'Wis. Re. 42), the Court say:

"It cannot be denied that under the power of exemption unjust
enactments in respect of the power of taxation might be made.
But those who framed the Constitution did not see fit to prevent
such evils by depriving the Legislature of the power. But they
did provide that whatever property was made taxable at "al
should be taxed by a uniform rule, which was designed to
secure equality in the burdens as between the different kinds
of taxable property, but of course not as between property taxable and that not taxable."
The Court refer with approbation to the Exhange Rank of
0olumbus vs. Hines, (3 0. S.Rep., 1.) In that case the Supreme
Court of Ohio, say: "Taxing is required to be by a 'uniform
ruk'-that is, by ene and the same unvarying standard. Tax.
ing by a uniform rule requires- uniformity not only in the rate
of taxation, but also uniformity in the mode of assessment upon
the taxable valuation. Uniformity in taxing implies equality
in the burden of taxation, and this equality of burden cannot
exist without uniformity in the mode of assessment, as well as
the rate of taxation. But this is not all. The uniformity must
be coextensive with the territory to which it applies. If a State
tax, it must be uniform all over the State. If a county or city
tax, it must be uniform throughout the extent of the territory
to which it is applicable. But the uniformity in the rule required
by the Constitution does not stop here. It must extend to all
poer' subject to taxation, so that all property may.be taxed
alike--equally-which is taxing by a uniform rule."
We forbear to examine the soundness of ihe conclusions of the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin. They need no support at our
handq. We could add nothing to what they have so well and

SUPREME COURT.
Gilman vs. City of Sheboygan.
ably said in vindication of their own views. Such a discussion
would encumber this opinion without throwing any new light
upon the subject.
Acting upon a principle, recognized in its administration
from the earliest period of its history, this Court considers itself
bound in cases like this, to follow the settled adjudications of the
highest State Court, giving constructions to the Constitution and
laws of the State. (Leffinqwel vs. Warren,decided at this term.)
The bill avers that at the time the tax complained of was
levied, there was personal property in the city, of the value
of from $300,000 to $400,000, liable to taxation. The demurrer admits this fact. The statute prescribing the property
to be taxed, and that to be wholly exempted from taxation, shows that this personal property must have been
taxed for other purposes. This tax was levied exclusively upon
the real estate of the City. That was a discrimination in favor
of the personal property. It was beyond the constitutional
power of the Legislature to make any discrimination. Property
must be wholly exempted or not exempted at all. No partial
exemption or discrimination is permitted. To impose certain
taxes exclusively upon one class of taxable property is as much
a discrimination as to vary the rates of the same or other taxes
upon different classes of property.
The latter was attempted to be done, as has been shown, in
the City of Janesville. The tax was adjudged to be utterly
void.
The same result must follow here.
A case"illustrating more strongly than the case before us, the
the wisdom of the rule of the Constitution, as thus interpreted,
and the injustice which may be done in departing from it, can
hardly be imagined.
The Court below erred in sustaining the demurrer and dis.
missi:g the bill.
The decree is reversed, and the cause remanded for furthei
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

