SUPREME COURT.
Chilton vs. Braiden's Administratrix.

ascertain who these bond-holders are, about which we presume
there will be little difficulty, and to notify them to come in and
share in the fruits of the decree, on paying their proportion of
its expense.,

For this purpose the case is remanded to the Circuit Court,
with instructions to proceed in accordance with this opinion.

CHILTON

vs.

BRAIDEN'S ADINISTRATRIX

1. Purchaseimoney is treated by Courts of Equity as a lien on the
land sold where the purchaser has taken no separate security,
and this is on the principle that one who gets the estate of
another should not in conscience be allowed to keep it without
paying for it.
2. This rule applies with as much force to tile case of a purchase by
a married woman as to any other case.
3. The disabilities imposed upon married women are intended for
their protection, and the law will not allow them to be used as
the means of committing fraud.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia.
The appellee, Margaret Lyons, administratrix of Elizabeth
Braiden, deceased, on February 12th, 1857, filed her bill in the
Circuit Court of the District of Columbia for the sale of part of
square No. 226, in the City of Washington, to enforce the jayment of the purchase money due therefor, against Agnes R.
Hazard, a married woman,--who had purchased on the credit
of her separate estate. 0. E. P. Hazard, her husband, and Sam'l
Chilton, her trustee, were joined witb her as defendants.
The bill sets forth the sale of the property to Agnes R. Hazard
-as shown by the. recitals of the deed-the conveyance to
Chilton, as trustee for her-and avers that the purchase money
is due and unpaid. Mrs. Hazard filed her answer, admitting the
enle and conveyance, but denying that "the sum of $6,000 re.

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Chilton vs. Braiden's Administratrix.
mains due and unpaid," and "she shows to the Court that she
fully satisfied the said Elizabeth in her life time with the said purchase money, and, in proof thereof, she exhibits with her answer,
and will prove it when it shall be necessary to do so, the receipt
of the said Elizabeth to her, bearing date the 12th day of September, 1856, whereby she acknowledged the payment to her,
said Elizabeth, of the sum of five thousand eight hundred and
fifty dollars in full of respondent's purchase of house and lot of
her, sold on the 21st March, 1856,"-she cannot state when,
where, or how, the said purchase money was paid and satisfied
to said Elizabeth Braiden,"-" she cannot state positively, of her
own knowledge, that any sums of money were paid to her," and
contends "that. it is not 'material whether or not the whole
amount of the sum of $6,000 was paid said Elizabeth, if she
voluntarily gave a receipt in full." In this answer she relies on
the receipt entirely, not stating any specific amount as having
been paid. She denied the allegation of the bill, that her separate estate, had no real existence, but failed to answer the in.
terrogatories propounded mainly for the purpose of showing
that she could not have paid for the property from her separate
estate. Exceptions being filed, the Court required her to answer
the interrogatories. In her amended answer, she says some payments were made, but she does not know how much, "the whole
matter being conducted by her husband, who held her separate
estate." She again set up the receipt as an absolute defense. In
answer to interrogatories she declared that she did not know
how much was paid by her husband. The husband also answered, and so did the trustee. The plaintiff filed the general
replication. The cause was set for hearing. The controversy
was, whether or not the purchase money had been satisfied and
discharged, which necessarily involved the genuineness of the
receipt.
The Court directed issues to be made up and tried before a
jury on the law side of the Court. A jury was duly impanneled,
and found for the plaintiff that the receipt set up was not the genu.
ine receipt of Elizabeth Braiden.
The cause coming on for final hearing, the Court paased a

SUPREME COURT.
Chillon vs. Braiden's Administratri.

decree that all the purchase money was due and ordered a sale
of the property for the payment of it. The case came before
this Court on an appeal from that decree.
Mr.Carlisle,of Washington City, for Appellants
Hr. Stone, and Mr.Bradley, of Washington City, for Appellee.
Mr. Justice GRIER. When one person has got the estate of
another, he ought not, in conscience, to be allowed to keep it
without paying the consideration. It is on this principle that
Courts of Equity proceed as between vendor and vendee. The
purchase money is treated as a lien on the land sold, where the
vendor has taken no separate security. In the present case
this lien has not been defeated by alienation to a bona fide purchaser, or any subsequent lien of creditors. The issue taken in
the answer concerning the respondents' ability to pay out of her
separate estate is wholly immaterial except to give probability
to the allegation that she had paid the consideration. The only
defense taken in the answer to the claim of the bill is an alleged
ieceipt in full or discharge for the purchase money.
The deed does not acknowledge the payment of the considerativn, and the answer admits that no consideration was paid at
th.3 time of its delivery. The issue between the parties turned
wholly on the genuineness of a receipt or discharge purporting
to have been executed and delivered by Elizabeth Braiden on
the 12th of September, 1856. The Court ordered an issue to
txy this question at law, and the jury found "That Elizabeth
Braiden did not execute and deliver said receipt or discharge,
and that it was not the genuine receipt of said Elizabeth Braiden."
The Court, in the exercise of their discretion, refused to grant a
new trial of this issue. As it appears to us that the evidence
justified the verdict, we see no error in the decree cf the Court.
It did not condemn the defendant to pay the consideration out
of her separate estate, but orders the houses to be sold to pay
the purchase money, unless before a certain time the defendant
shafl jay Lhe amount due.

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Curtis's Administratrixvs. Fiedler.
Neither the answer of the party, nor the argument of counsel,
allege any good reason, why a married woman should be permitted to take property without paying for it, more than another.
The disabilities thrown round her by the law, are for her pro.
tection-not to enable her to commit fraud.
'Decree affirmed, with costs.-

CURTIS'S ADMINISTRATRIX vs. FiEDLER.
L An importer-fiom whom a collector exacted illegal duties could
not under the Act of 1839, maintain assumpsit to recover back
the excess, unless the suit was brought before the officer
paid the money into the treasury.
2. The Act of 1845 gave the right of recovering back, such excessive
duties to all importers who had paid or might thereafter pay
them, under protest in writing, with the grounds of objection
distinctly set forth.
8. Whether this latter act, has a retroactive operation, so as to inelude the case of a person, from whom excessive duties were
exacted before its passage. Quere?
4. But it is certain, that a party whose claim for excessive duties is
not recoverable under the Act of 1839, and who seeks to recover
under the Act of 1845, cannot avail himself of the latter statute,
without bringing himself within its terms, by showing that he
made proper protest at the time of payment.
5. A party imported iron and hemp at the same time, entered them
together, and made a general protest against the duties charged
in the entry, without discrimination of the packages and stating
no ground of objection, except that the chaige was illegal.
Held, That stich a protest utterly fails to meet the require.
ments of the Act of 1845.
6. The importer must indicate by his protest, the distinct and definite ground of his objection to the charge, and show his intention to reclaim the excess.
T. This distinctness is required, that the officers may know to what
amount of risk and responsibility they expose the Government
by taking the duties in the face of the objection.

