SUPREME COURT.
Nebraska City vs. Campbell.
possession; to invalidate his title, and to have the mortgaged
property resold.
This is a direct and positive interference with the rightful
authority of the State Court.
If there was error in the proceedings of the Court, a review
can be had in the appellate tribunals of the State. If, as is
charged, the decree is sought to be perverted and made the
medium of consummating a wrong, then the Court, on petition
or suppletal bill, can prevent it. If, as appears by the proceed
ings, the surplus-money arising from the s.le is still undisposed
of, then the whole case is under the control of the Court, and no
suppletal even is needed to prevent the wrong.
The decree dismissing the bill is affirmed.

NEBRASKA CITY vs. CAMPBELL.

1. Municipal Corporations upon which the duty is imposed to construct and repair, or to keep in repair streets and bridges, and
upon which is also conferred the means of accomplishing such
duty, are liable for any special damage arising from their
neglect to perform it.
2. In an action for damages sustained by such neglect, evidence
showing the business in which the plaintiff was engaged, its
extent and the consequent loss arising to him from his inability to prosecute it, is relevant and pertinent, as enabling
the jury to fix, with some certainty, the direct and necessaly
damages resulting from his injuries.
Error to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Nebraska.
John T. Campbell brought his action against Nebraska Citv
in the Court of the Second Judicial District for Otoe County.
and alleged in his petition that the defendant, being a municipal
corporation, had, by its chhrter; the title and control of the
streets, alleys, squares, wharves, and other highways and publi,!
grounds within its limits, and was bound to keep them in repair.

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

591

Nebraska City vs. Campbell.
That the defendant was so bound to keep in repair a certain
bridge on South street, across Tabb Creek; but, contrary to its
legal duty, left that bridge without side-railing, and in other
respe.As unsafe and defective, by reason of which, the plaintiff
a physician, visiting his patients, in a buggy, was thrown from
the bridge and greatly injured, so as to prevent -him for a long
time from practising his profession.
The City denied its legal liability for such damages under any
circumstances, and averred that the plaintiff got his injuries by
his own fault; for he was thrown over the bridge in consequence
of the viciousness of his horse, which he was carelessly driving
without a whip, and which had taken fright at a paper posted
on the bridge by a third party.
The jury found a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for $3,000
damages, and after an unsuccessful moti6n by the defendant in
arrest of judgmefit, the Court gave judgment on the verdict.
The cause was taken, by the petition of the defendant, to the
Supreme Court of the Territory, where the judgment was affirmed,
and thence it came to this Court by writ of error sued out by
the City.
.3r.Taylor, of Nebraska, for Plaintiff in Error.
Mr. *oolworth, of Nebraska, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON. This is a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Nebraska.
The suit was brought in the Court below by Campbell
against the City to recover damages for injuries received by
reason of a defective bridge in one of the streets in the City.
The charter vested in the City Council the title to all the
streets within the corporate limits, and it is made their duty to
construct and improve the same at the public's expense; for this
purpose, and others, the counsel ara authoriz-d to levy a tax on
all the taxable property within the City. This provision in
respect to streets necessarily embraces all bridges within th
limits of the City and constituting a part of the street.

SUPREME COURT.
Nebraska City vs. Campbell.
There is also a general act referred to, which, among other
things, confers upon all incorporated Cities exclusive jurisdic
tion over all streets, roads, bridges, and ferries within their cor
porate limits, and exempting the inhabitants from any assess
ment for road tax except by the corporate authorities of the
same.
The law is well settled in respect to public municipal corpo
rations, upon which the duty is imposed to construct and repair,
or to keep in repair streets or bridges, and upon which is also
conferred the means of accomplishing such duty, that they are
liable for any special damage arising out of neglect in keeping
the same in proper condition.
The principle was very fully considered at the last term in the
case of Weightman vs. The Corporation of Washington, where all
the authorities will be found collected and examined. 1 Black,
pp. 39, 51, 52, 53.
The plaintiff was a practising physician, and in the course of
the trial evidence was given, after objection, that he was engaged
in extensive practice at the time of the injury, and also that it
was a period of great sickness in the community.
The declaration states that the plaintiff was a physician at the
time of the injury, and after describing the nature and extent
of it, adds that by reason thereof, he was greatly bruised, sick
and lame, and so continued for a long space of time, to wit, for
the space of six weeks, and during all that time suffered great
pain, and was prevented from transacting his ordinary business
as a physician during that time.
Now, the evidence in question was relevant and pertinent.
with a view to show the extent and amount of the ordinary
business of the plaintiff in his profession, of which it is averred
he was deprived during the time of his disability, and laid a
foundation which enabled the jury with some degree of cer~ainty
to ascertain the direct and necessary damages sustained from the
injuries.
In the ease. of Wade vs. Leroy et al., (20 How., 34, 43, 44),
which was an action for injuries to the plaintiff for carelessly
navigating a ferry boat, the Court held that proof of the ordi.

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

698

United States vs. Chaboya.

nary business in which the plaintiff was engaged, and that he
was largely engaged in it, was admissible and pertinent upon the
question of damages, though the fact was not set out in the
declaration. The proof was regarded as showing the direct and
necessary loss or damage from the injuries sustained.
The case before us is broken into many points, and prayers to
the Court for instructions to the jury, but those noticed above
cover all that is material to dispose of it.
Judgment of the Court below affirmed.

THE UNITED STATES Vs. CHABOYA.
CHABOYA vs. THE UNITED STATES.

A.part claiming* land in California produces no legal title, but
bases his right solely on possession. It is shown that such
possession as he had was temporary, partial, and subsidiary to
the claim of another party whose rights he constantly recog.
nized. Held, That this Court cannot confirm such a claimi
These were cross appeals taken from the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of California
Mr. Willq, of Washington City, for the United States.
Mr.. Hepburn, and 1r. Wilkins, of California, contra.

Mr. Justice MITILER. These are appeals from the District
Court of the United States for the Northern District of California.
The appellant, Petro Chaboya, on the 2d day of March, 1853,
filed with the Board of Commissioners to settle private land
claims in the State of California his petition to have confirmed
to him two leagues of land in the County of Santa Clara,
bounded as follows: On the north by the lands of JosS de Jesus
Vallejo; on the east by the rancho of Antonio Suiol and the
road from San Jos6 to the Valley; on the south by the Canada
voL. 11.

38

