DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

698

United States vs. Chaboya.

nary business in which the plaintiff was engaged, and that he
was largely engaged in it, was admissible and pertinent upon the
question of damages, though the fact was not set out in the
declaration. The proof was regarded as showing the direct and
necessary loss or damage from the injuries sustained.
The case before us is broken into many points, and prayers to
the Court for instructions to the jury, but those noticed above
cover all that is material to dispose of it.
Judgment of the Court below affirmed.

THE UNITED STATES Vs. CHABOYA.
CHABOYA vs. THE UNITED STATES.

A.part claiming* land in California produces no legal title, but
bases his right solely on possession. It is shown that such
possession as he had was temporary, partial, and subsidiary to
the claim of another party whose rights he constantly recog.
nized. Held, That this Court cannot confirm such a claimi
These were cross appeals taken from the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of California
Mr. Willq, of Washington City, for the United States.
Mr.. Hepburn, and 1r. Wilkins, of California, contra.

Mr. Justice MITILER. These are appeals from the District
Court of the United States for the Northern District of California.
The appellant, Petro Chaboya, on the 2d day of March, 1853,
filed with the Board of Commissioners to settle private land
claims in the State of California his petition to have confirmed
to him two leagues of land in the County of Santa Clara,
bounded as follows: On the north by the lands of JosS de Jesus
Vallejo; on the east by the rancho of Antonio Suiol and the
road from San Jos6 to the Valley; on the south by the Canada
voL. 11.

38

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. Chaboya.
del Aliso, (Colindante con,) Don Flagencia Higuera, and on the
west by the estuary.
With the petition were filed certain papers showing an application by Chaboya, in 1844, to Governor Micheltorena, for this
land, and a reference by the Governor to the Prefect for the
necessary information under the colonization laws and the subPrefect's report.
There was also filed, as an exhibit, an incomplete espediente
relating to a totally different tract of land, all the parts of which
bear date in the year 1839.
The Commissioners rejected the claim, saying that no grant
had ever issued, no proof was given of segregation of the land,
none of possession, and none of cultivation. The case, however,
was carried into the District Court by appeal, and the appellant
filed his petition in that Court, in which, referring to his former
petition before the Board of Commissioners for a more particular
description of the land, he prays that their decree may be reversed and his title confirmed.
In the progress of the case in the District Court, it was discovered that the land on which the claimant lived, and to which
alone he really set up any claim was not described in the petition, but Y as that mention I in the second espediente above
alluded to, and was twenty mies distant from the land for which
coLIfirmation was asked. Under these circumstances the claimant
was permitted by the Court, on 15th of June, 1857, to file an
amended petition, setting out these facts and a true description
of the land claimed, which was called La Posa de San Juan
Bautista.
After a large amount of testimony had been taken in reference
to this last mentioned claim, and the case had come to a hearing,
the Court held that it had never been presented to the Board of
Commissioners, and that the District Court had no jurisdiction
as to that piece of land, and that it was then too late, under the
Act of 1851, to present the claim anywhere.
From this decree Chaboya appealed to this Court, and the
record of the case up to this stage of the proceedings, constitutes
case No. 131 of our docket for the present term.

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
United States vs. Chaboya.

But while this appeal was pending, the appellant procured the
passage of an Act of Congress, approved April 25, 1862, which
authorized, the District Court to hear and determine his claim to
La Posa San Juan Bautista, in the same manner, and with the
same jurisdiction, as if it had been duly presented to the Board
of Land Commissioners. Accordingly, after taking further testi.
*mony, the case again came to a hearing before that Court on the
6th of November, 1862, and a decree was rendered rejecting the
claim to all of the tract of land, supposed to be about two square
leagues, except five hundred acres of it, which had been allotted
to him by the authorities of San Jose, and confirming to him
that Tauch of it.
From this decree he has also appealed to this Court, and the
record which has been brought up, being a complete transcript
of the case from its commencement, constitutes case No. 288 of
the docket of this term.
The appellant does not in this Court claim that he has any
right to the land described in his petition to tue Board of Coin
missioners, as to which they decided against him; but he does
insist that the last decree of the Court deprives him of a very
valuable tract of land, to which he thinks himself entitled.
The main fact on which he rests his claim in this case is his
long continued possession of the land. There is no pretence
that there was evei any grant of the land by the Mexican
Government, and if the claim is to be confirmed, it must be upon
the equity growing out of that possession, and the circumstances
connected with it. It is established by the testimony in the
record, that Chaboya was residing in a house of very insignifcant proportions, on some part of the tract, as early as the year
1837, and has continued so to reside to the present time.. Bit,
it also appears, that his right to reside there, and especially his
right to any exclusive possession or use of tract known as I a
Posa de San Juan Bautista, was matter of controversy from that
early time between'himself and the residents of the pueblo of
San Jose. These villagers claimed that the tract so named, was
a part of the ejidos or common lands of the pueblo, on which
the 3attle of all the pobladores or villagers had a right to range,

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. Chaboya.
and was particularlyinecessary to them on account of the water
which it afforded.
In his petition to the Governor asking a
grant of this land, Chaboya alludes to his possession and to the
resistance made to it by the residents of the pueblo, in these
words:
'Therefore, I pray you to be pleased to grant me the ownership of what I actually possess, with my house and cattle, with
the permission of 'the prefecture of this District, showing your
Excellency that the reclamations which the residents of the
pueblo have addressed against me to that Goverment are absolutely destitute of justice, since it is only made by four or five
bad entertaining citizens, carrying of the view of the pueblo,
since in nowise I prejudice their interests, and it happening to
be vacant land, conformable to the law of colonization."
This petition was dated May, 10, 1839, and the Governor
having regard to this same matter of disputed possession, made
the following order, which was endorsed on the margin of the
petition:
"Monterey, May 20th, 1839.
"Let the prefecture report on the present solicitation, arrang
ing from hence that the intei 'sted party may be conserved in
the possession in which he finds himself of the land solicited, as
long as the suitable procedure is going on.
"ALVARADO."
(Signed)
On the 25th May the Prefect reported as follows:
"SIR:-The petitioner ought to be excused from the usual
procedure, since the prefe cture in my charge has already taken
and perhaps despatched it conformable to his solicitation, since
the reclamation which the residents of the pueblo of the vicinity
have made, and of which I verbally have informed you, have
no other design than to remove Sir Chabolla from the place he
has occupied for many years, on account of antipathy of previous
arrangement, which absolutely are destitute of justice.
"Notwithstanding, your Excellency will act in the premises
as you shall believe convenient.
"San Jwun de Castro, 25th of May, 1839.
"Josi CASTRO"

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

597

United States vq, .-Uhaboy&.

The foregoing papers were fled with the petition of claimant
b.,fore the Board of Commissioners, and were all the documentary evidence so filed by him in relation to this tract of land.
But in the progress of the case in the District Court, another
paper was produced, and as it relates to this same matter of the
possession and seems to have a close connection with those just
mentioned, it may as well be inserted here. It is as follows:
"The citizen, Dolores Pacheco, justice of the peace of the
pueblo of San Jose Gaudalu~e de Alvarado.
"By superior order of the Seior Prefect of the First District,
it is conceded to the citizen Pedro Chabolla that he inhabit the
place named Posa de San Juan Bautista without building any
house of foundation, and much less plant trees (plantar bienes
raises) for the term of two years, subjecting himself to pay $6
annually, and he must assist in- the work on bridge or any
others by which he may be benefited.
"San Jos6 Gaudalupe de Alvarado, February 29th, 1840
"DOLORES PACHECO,
"PEDRO CHABOLLA."

Notwithstanding the report of the prefect Castro, that the
-iaimant ought to be excused from the usual procedure, by
which we suppose he meant the procuring of an informe, that
the land was vacant, the Governor did not issue a grant.
His claim or right to the possession stood then in the same
condition of .dispute as between himself and the pobladores of
Sin Jos6 that it had previously, when on the 29th of February,
1840, he entered into what may be termed a compromise with
them, which is evidenced by the foregoing paper, signed by
himself and the Justice of the Peacd of that pueblo.
We can give to this gaper no other construction than a renunciation by Chaboya of any right to the possession of La Posa de
San Juan Bautista, and a consent to occupy it for two years
under the authorities of the pueblo, paying them $6 annual
rent, and submitting to the terms which they chose to impose,
to prevent. him from acquiring any permanent possession or
interest in the land.
There is nothing-in the subsequent history of his'occupation

598

A-

.EME7 COURT.

fiied ta@£va Chaoya.
of the place to change the character of his possession. It is
proven that while his cattle ranged over it, those of the residents
of the village generally did the same.
On the contrary, there is strong evidence that this was his own
construction of the character of his possession.
After the country came under the American Government, the
authorities of San Jos6 determined to divide the ejidos or
common lands of the pueblo, including this tract, among its
residents, and in doing so allotted to Ohaboya, as his share, five
hundred acres around his dwelling. He accepted the instrument
in the nature of a deed made to him by the Alcalde, and had it
recorded. He was shortly after taxed by the authorities of San
Jos6 for the entire tract of La Posa de San Juan Bautista, and it
is distinctly proved by two witnesses, that he appeared before
the proper officers to have the tax remitted, stating that he only
claimed the five hundred acres allotted to him in the partition.
The tax was accordingly remitted.
We think these facts show very clearly that the appellant
never had any legal title to the land in question ; that he never
had any exclusive possession, beyond the five hundred acres
which was allotted to him by the authorities of San Jos6, and
confirmed by the decree of the District Court; and that such
possession as he did have was subsidiary to the claim of the
authorities of the pueblo, and with recognition of their rights,
and that the decree should be affirmed.
The decree of the District Court is affirmed in both appeals.

