DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Russell vs. .Ely et al.
the. Supreme Court of Tennessee, and is brought to revise a
decree of that Court which declared null and void a certain sale
and lease of school lands in Polk County, under which sale and
lease the plaintiffs in error claimed title to these lands.
The statement of the facts in the transcript will show that the
validity of this sale and lease depended altogether upon the
'laws of the State, and the proceedings of the State authorities.
The plaintiTs in error do not claim under any laws of Congress,
or any authority exercised by the United States. On the con.
trary, they deny the authority of Congress to pass the Act of
1843, (which is the only Act of Congress referred to,) and claim
that a lease for ninety-nine years, made by the School Commis.
sioners under a law of the State, was valid, and passed the title
for the term, although in direct opposition to the provisions of
the Act of Congress. Such a controversy, where no right is
claimed under the Constitution or laws of ,the United States, is
exclusively within, the jurisdiction of the State Court, and this
Court has no appellate power over its judgment. This writ
must therefore be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

RUSSELL vs. ELY ET AL.

I. In Wisconsin the fee of mortgaged premises, rests in the mort
gagee or assignee only after foreclosure and sale: not upon the
mere default of the mortgagor.
2. A deed in fee, executed by the mortgagor, subsequent to the
mortgage-deed, but prior to the foreclosure, passes the legal
title.
3. But if the mortgagee is in lawful possession of the mortgaged
premises, after condition broken, he will not be turned out
until the debt is paid.
4. Possession obtained by the mortgagee through an arrangement
with'the tenant of the mortgagor whose lease has expired,
without the consent of the mortgagor, is not lawful possession.
5. It is not necessarily error for a Court tc instruct the Jury,

SUPREME COURT.
Bussell vs. Ely et al.
that if the testimony of a certain witness is believed it will
establish a specified fact, leaving to the Jury to believe or disbelieve the witness.
6. The propriety of such instruction depends upon the fullness,
certainty and clearness of the testimony of the witness upon
the point in issue.
7. A bill of exceptions which alleges that the instructions of the
Court laid too large a stress upon the testimony of a particular witness, should embody the testimony, at length, or so
refer to it as to make it part of the record: otherwise a Court
of error must presume that it justified the instruction.
Error to the District Court of the United States for the
District of Wisconsin.
The facts are fully stated in the opinion of the Court. It was
argued by
Mr. Doolittle, of Wisconsin, for Plaintiff in Error.
Mr. Lynde, of Wisconsin, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER. This was an action of ejectment in the
District Court of'the United States for the District of Wisconsin
in which the defendants in error obtained a judgment against
the plaintiff in error, for the possession of block 70, of the School
Section of the City of Racine.
The legal title to this block was in David L. Barton, on the
24th April, 1851, and on that day he made a mortgage deed
conveying said block to Floyd P. Baker, to secure the payment
of a note for $1,400, due one year after date, and on the next
day, the 24th of the same month, he conveyed it in fee to
Clifford A. Baker.
The plaintiffs on the trial exhibited a regular chain of title
from Clif brd A. Baker to themselves, and the defendant proved
himself to be the owner and holder of the note and mortgage
above recited, and being in possession of the block sued for,
claimed the right to hold it until the debt was paid. It appears
further by the bill of exceptions, that plaintiffs traced their title
through one Charles R. Dean, and testimony was given tending

DECEMBER PERM, 1862.

577

Russell vs. Rly et al.
to show that Charles R. Dean was a fictitious person, who never
bad any real existence. The only other fact shown by the bill
of exceptions, necessary to an understanding of the case, is the
statement of Thomas S. Baker, that from the summer of 1853,
until the spring of 1856, he held possession of the property
under a lease from plaintiffs, and then surrendered it to the
'defendant. without the knowledge or consent of plaintiffs.
The defendant on the trial excepted to the three propositions
following, contained in the charge.of the Court to the jury:
1. "If the defendant procured the possession and occupies it
in.pursuance of an arrangement, in the spring of 1856,'with
T. S. Baker, without the consent of the mortgagor, or of these
plaintiffs, then he is not lawfully in possession."
2. "If the testimony of Clifford A. Baker is believed, the
deed" (to Charles R. Dean) "passed the title from him."
3. "The legal title, in the opinion of the Court, on the fa,' j
of the deeds, is in the plaintiff."
In examining the questions arising on these exceptions, it will
be convenient to take up first, the one last mentioned. It is the
province of the Court in trials by jury to construe instruments
of writing and determine their legal effict, and if it was apparent
that on the face of the deeds,-the legal title was in plaintiffs," it
was not only the right of the Court, but its duty to so instruct
the jury. Is it true, then, that the deeds read in evidence
'showed the title in plaintiffs ?
The plaintiff in error maintains, that by the mortgage deed of
D. L. Barton, of July 23d, 1851, the legal title passed to Floy'd
P.- Baker, and that by the deed made July 24th, to Clifford,-A:
Baker, nothing passed but the equity of redemption; and if he
is correct in this the instruction was error.
Numerous authorities from English and American decisions
are cited by counsel on both sides in reference to this point, but
in the view which we take of the matter they become of little
value, except those of the Wisconsin Court. These deeds were
both made in Wisconsin, in reference to land lying in that
State, and in their construction, must be governed by its laws.
The Revised Statutes of Wisconsin, chap. 141, see. 28, enact.
3.
VOL. II.

SUPREME COURT.
Russell vs. Ely et al.
that "no action of ejectment shall hereafter be brought by a
mortgagee, or his assigns, or representatives, for the recovery of
the possession' of the mortgage premises, until the equity of
redemption shall have expired." Chap. 154, see. 11, provides,
that " in every case the mortgagor may retain full possession in
trust for the mortgagee or purchaser of all premises mortgaged
by him, until the title shall absolutely vest in the purchaser of
sch mortgaged premises, according to the provisions of this
chapter."
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin, in the case of IVood anl
.lfoon vs. Trask, (7 Wis. R., 512), speaking of these provisions,
and perhaps others in 1pai maleria,says: "Our statute has essentially changed the rule of the common law, in relation to the
position of the fee of the mortgaged premises, after condition
broken. The fee does not vest upon default of the mortgagor,
in the mortgagee, or his assignee. The fee only vests upon sale
and foreclosure." In Tallman vs. Ely, (6 Wis. R., 257), the same
Court says: "Our statute provides that the mortgagee shall not
bring his action of ejectment before foreclosing the equity of
redemption; see. 53, chap. 106, or in other words he must com
plete his title, before he shall be permitted to recover at law
upon the strength of it."
These expositions of the statutes of Wisconsin are to be
followed by the Federal Courts as rules of construction, and
from them it results that the legal title did not pass to Floyd P.
Baker by the mortgage deed of July 23d, but did pass to
Clifford A. Baker by the deed in fee made the day after.
The instruction was-therefore correct.
The next error alleged is based upon that part of the Court's
charge embraced in the following sentence: "If the defendant
procured the possession, and occupies it in pursuance of an
irraugement in the spring of 1856, with T.S. Baker, without
'he consent of the mortgagor or of these plaintiffs, then he is
not lawfully in possession." The truth of this proposition would
seem to be a necessary corollary from the one just discussed.
Indeed it would seem to be a clearer deduction from the statutes
cited, than that r:.ade by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, in

DEBIEM.ER TERM, 1862.
lussell vs. Ely et al.
reference to the position of the fee; for if the mortgagee has no
right to recover the possession by legal proceedings, it would
seem that he should not be permitted in any other manner to
obtain that possession against the consent of the mortgagee, or
the person holding under him. We are, however, referred by
counsel for plaintiff in error .to the cases of Gillett vs. Eaton,
(6 Wis. R., 30), and Tallman vs. Ely, (Wis., 257), as establishing
a contrary doctrine. A careful examination of these cases does
not sustain the proposition in favor of which they are cited, to
an extent which will conflict with the instruction of the Court
under consideration.
It is true, that in both of these cases, it is held that the mort
gagee lawfully inpossesion cannot be turned, out by ejectm~nt
brought by the mortgagor. Ia both the cases, the decision
turned upon the fact that the mortgagees .were lawfully in possession, and in both it is evident that the defendants originally
entered with the consent of the mortgagor, either express or
implied.
The language used in the second of the cases cited, namely,
Tallman vs. Ely, a part of which has already been quoted in
regard to the position of the fee, shows very clearly the distinc-,
tion which was in the mind of the Court as to the lawfulness of
the mortgagee's possession. The Court says: "Our statute provides that the mortgagee shall not bring his action of ejectment
before foreclosing the equity of redemption, see: 53, chap. 106,
or in other words, he must complete his title before he shall be
permitted to recover at law upon the strength of it. Still, if he
2s lawfully in possession after condition broken, he will not be
turned out until his debt is paid."
This leaves still undecided the question as to what is lawful
possession, and we concur -with the District Court, that if the
defendant in this case, although he may have been the holder
of the mortgage and the debt secured by it, obtained the possession of the block in controversy, by an arrangement with the
tenant of the plaintiffs, after said lease had expired, and without
their consent, he was not lawfully in possession.
The remaining exception is to the charge of the Court, "that

SUPREME COURT.
Russell vs. Ely et al.
if the testimony of Clifford A. Baker is believed; the deed" (to
Charles- R. Dean) "passed the title from him" (Baker). In that
part of the charge which immediately precedes the words objected
to, the -Court says: "The deed of Clifford A. Baker to Charles
R. Dean is alleged to be fraudulently executed by Floyd P.
Baker in the name of Clifford A. Baker. That he used Clifford's
name without authority, and that Charles R. Dean was a fictitious
person. The evidence of Botsford shows these facts rimafacie."
It is manifest that if Charles R. Dean was a fictitious person,
plaintiffs had no title, for they claimed under a deed from him.
It is equally clear, that if the testimony of Botsford showed that
fact '-ima facie, the testimony of any witness who proved the
existence of Dean as a real person was very important, and
required careful scrutiny; and the comments of the Judge on
any such witness, or his evidence, should have been given with
great caution, and should have left to the jury all that properly
belonged to it. But we are unable to see from anything in this
record that the Court exceeded its functions in the charge. It
was" certainly proper that it should call attention to Baker's
testimony, as it had done to that of Botsford. Baker may have
testified to facts, which if true, or if believed by the jury, made
it so clear that the title passed from-him to Deafi, as to justily
the Court in saying so. And if he did so testify, we cannot say
that the conclusion thus stated by the Court, leaving as it did
the right to believe or disbelieve the witness to the jury, was
error.
It is true that this Court does not see anything in that part
of Baker's testimony embodied in the bill of exceptions which
justifies such an inference. But the 'bill of exceptions does not
purport to give all that he said, and according to a well-known
rule, this Court, under such a condition of the record, is bound
to presume that there was that in Baker's testimony which justified the instruction. What purports to be the entire deposition
of Baker is sent up by the Clerk of the District Court, and is
printed in the record before us, and if properly before us might
sustain the exception. But this deposition is not incorporated
into the bill of exceptions, nor so referred to in it as to be made

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

581

The Ship Poomac.
a part of the record of the case. It is only a useless encumbrance of the transcript, and an expense to the litigating parties.
Clerks who certify transcripts to this Court should know what
does properly constitute the record they are to send up, as it is
a matter which has been often decided, and which may be readily
learned with a little attention.
The judgment of the District Court is therefore affirmed.

THB SHIP PoTOMAC--S-impson, Claimant; Bacer, Libellant.
1 Case of The Steamer St.,Lawrence, (1 Black, 525,) reaffirmed"
2. The claimant of a vessel libelled for repairs, cannot be permitted
in this Court to contest the amount of libellant's claim, except
in so far as specific objections appear by the record to have
been taken to it in the Court below.
3. Where a master found the amount due, but stated no account,
and his report was excepted to as being excessive, not sufficiently proved, erroneous under the pleadings, and founded on
illegal evidence, such general objections may justly be treated
as frivolous, and if overruled and the case brought here on
appeal, this Court cannot say that particular .harges were
wrongly admitted, or particular credits wrongly thrown out.
4. Where the libellant proved his demand by shop books, the Circuit Court might well con sider the evidence in his favor
stronger than the contrary opinion of :experts taken exparte
after the work was done.
5. The decree of the Court below is presumed to-'be .right, and a
record showing that it may possibly be erroneoUs, or raising a
doubt upon conflicting evidence is .not enough to reverse it.
6 If the contract was made and the work done by the libellant,
his right to recover, in his own name, cannot be defeated by
showing that he had a partner interested in the contract.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.'
On the 23d of November, 1855, the libel in this cause was

