SUPREME COURT.
Chicago City vs. .Robbins.
mere conjecture, and to introduce parol testimony as to value to
justify a departure from it. A Court may look beyond the face
f the will where there is an ambiguity as to the person or pro.
perty to which it is applicable, but no case can be found whore
such testimony has been introduced to enlarge or dininish the
estate devised.
We are of opinion, therefore, that Benjamin L. Benson took
an estate in fee in both the messuages described in the will.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed with
costs.

CHICAGO CITY vs. ROBBINS.
1. A municipal corporation, having the exclusive care and control
of the streets, is obliged to see that they are kept safe for the
passage of persons and property, and to abate all nuisances
that might prove dangerous; if this duty be neglected, and
in consequence thereof, any one is injured, the corporation
will be liable for the damages sustained.
2. The corporation, has, however, a remedy over against a private
party who has so used the streets as to produce the injury,
unless the corporation concurred in the wrong.
8. A private party is concluded by a judgment recovered against
a corporation for his act or negligence, if he knew that the
suit was pending and could have defended it.
4. An express notice to such party to defend the suit, is not necessary to create his liability.
1 But in an action brought by a corporation, against such party,
to recover back the damages it has been compelled to pay for
his assumed neglect, it is competent for the defendant to show
that he was under no obligation to keep the street in safe
condition, and that it was not through his default that the
accident happened.
6. In such case, if it appears that there was fault both on the part
of the corporation and defendant, the former cannot recover

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

419

Chicago City vs. Bobbins.
for the reason that one of two joint wrong-doers cannot have
contribution from the other.
If a nuisance necessarily occurs in the ordinary mode of doing
work, the occupant or owner is liable, but if it happened by
the negligence of the contractor or his servants, the contractor alone is responsible.
8. Where rules of property in a state are fully settled by a series
of adjudications, this Court adopts the 'decisions of the State
Courts.
9. But where private rights are to be determined by the application of comnon law rules alone, this Court, although entertaining for State tribunals the highest respect, does not feel
bound by their decisions.
'.

This was a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United.
States for the Northern District of Illinois.
Mr. Anthony, of Illinois, for Plaintiff in Error.
Hr. Fuller,of Illinois, Contra.

Mr. Justice DAVIS.

This is an action on the case brought

by the City of Chicago against Robbins. The suit was originally commenced in the Cook County Court of Common Pleas,
one of the State Courts of Illinois. In was transfered, in pur-

suance of the act of Congress, on the petition of Robbins that
he was a citizen of New York, to the Circuit Court of the
United.States for the Northern District of Illinois, where there
was a trial by jury on the 10th day of April, 1860, on the plea
of not guilty, and the issue found for Robbins. There was a
motion for a new trial, Which was overruled by the Court, and
on the 28th day of May, 1860, judgment was entered on the
verdict of the jury. The decision of Circuit Courts on motion
for new trials is not subject to review, and this case is-here on
exceptions taken to the charge of the Judge to the jury.
The declaration alleges: That the plaintiff is a corporation by
the laws of Illinois, having exclusive control over the publiq
streets,. and bound to protect them from incroacbment and injury..

SUPREME COURT.
Chicago City vs. Bobbins.
That Robbins was the owner of a lot on one of the public streets,
and wrongfully excavated in the sidewalk next to and adjoining
his lot, an area of great length, width, and depth, and wrongfully
suffered the same to remain uncovered and unguarded, so thAt
one William H. Woodbury, on the night of the 28th of December, 1856, while exercising reasonable care and prudence in
passiIg along the stieet, fell into it and was greatly injured.
That Woodbury brought suit against the City, in said Cook
County Court of Common Pleas, and at the June Term, 1857, of
the said Court recovered a judgment for $15,000 and costs,
which the City has been forced to pay, and that although the
City is'primarily liable, yet Robbins is responsible over to it
for the amount of judgment, interest and costs so recovered.
The case as shown by the bill of exceptions is this: Robbins,
owning a lot in Chicago, on the southeast corner of Wells and
South Water streets, on the 20th of February, 1856, contracted
in writing with Peter Button to erect a building thereon, which
included an excavation of the sidewalk next to and adjoining it,
so .as to furnish light and air to the basement. The contract
contained a stipulation that Button was to be liable for any vio
lation of City ordinances in obstructing streets and sidewalks,
or accidents resulting from the same. Possession of the ground
in order to erect the building, was given to Button, by the terms
of the contract, on the 1st day of April, 1856. The area was
dug early in the spring and covered up temporarily with joists,
which often got displaced, and during the summer and fall it
was frequently uncovered and dangerous. The flagging was
laid some time in the fall and the iron gratings afterwards, with
which Button had nothing to do.
There were seven different contractors on the building, in all,
on different parts of the work. Letts had the contract for the
iron gratings, and Cook & Co. for the flagging. Robbins was in
Chicago, and occasionally at the building during the summer,
and was there while excavations were going on, and was spoken
to frequently by the City Superintendent upon the dangerous
condition of the area. At one time after the flagging was laid,
and ice was or had been on the flagging, he called Robbins'

DECEMBER TERM 1862.

421

Chicago City vs. Robbins.

attention to the condition of the area, and suggested the mode
in -which it should be covered up, "telling him that if it was
sleety and people were passing rapidly they might slip in, and
that somebody's neck would be broken;if the covering was not
attended to," and he replied "that he would see to it, but that
the matter was in the hands of his contractor, and he would
speak to him about it." Before this, the head clerk in the office
of the City Superintendent wrote Robbins a note and put it in
the post-office, notifying him of the danger of the whole front
of the sidewalk. The area was usually entirely open after flagging was laid, until-after the grating was all done, and was open
until after the accident. There were lamps at bridges, and a
lamp at alley, sixty-four feet from the building. The width *of
sidewalk including area, Was sixteen feet. The area was four
feet ten inches wide. The grade of Wells street was changed
by the corporation; the sidewalk was raised eight inches higher
than it was, to accommodate it to the grade of the street; it was
raised in July or August 1856, and Robbins directed Van Osdell, his architect, to raise the sidewalk to the grade. Van Osdell
superintended the erection of the building for Robbins, wha paid
him; his duty as superintendent w'as to see that the work was
done according to contract; to ee "that the work and material
were according to specification, and make estimates." Button
ivas told of the dangerous condition of the area, and spoke several times to his foreman about it. Button Was to furnish his
work under the contract by the 1st of September, but did not-in
fact complete it until February, 1857. On the night of the 26th
of December, 1856, the area was not sufficiently covered, and
Woodbury fell into it and was injured, and sued the City and
recovered in manner as stated in the declaration. Marsh was
City attorney in 1856, and when the suit was begun, he made
preparations for its defence, and ascertaining that Robbins owned
the building applied to him to assist him in procuring testimony.
Robbins told him of a witness who knew something of the sun,
and promised to write to him, and afterwards informed Marsh
that he had done so. The evening before the trial he casually
met Robbins and toid him that the suit -ould be triea the nuxi

SUPREME COURT.
Chicago City vs. Bobbins.

day; he did not go expressly to notify him to defend the suit,
and never notified him that the City would look to him for in.
demnity. Evidence was given tending to show that the City
authorities knew of the excavation of this area; and of other
areas similar to this at difterent times, and interposed no objection, though no express permission to make this one was
given.
The defendant introduced in evidence the following provision
of the Ordinances of the City of Chicago, viz.:
"ARTICLE II--OBsTRucTIONS.

CHAPTER LIII.,. SEoION 1.

"Be it ordained by the Common Council of the City of Chicago,
That no porch, galley, stoop, steps, cellar door, stair railing, or
platform, erected or to be erected within the city, shall be allowed
to extend into or upon any sidewalk where the street is less
than seventy feet in width, more than four feet; nor more than
five feet, where the street is seventy feet and upwards in width
Any violation -heTeof shall subject the offender to a ienalty of
twenty-five dollars, and to the like penalty for every day such
violation shall continue, after notice from the Marshal or Street
Commissioner of the proper Division to remove the same."
It also appeared in evidence, that the original ordinance from
which the foregoing provision is taken, was passed May 3d,
1855, but, as then passed, did not allow of more than four feet
encroachment upon the sidewalk in any case. On the 7th of
February, 1856, the ordinance was amended by the City Council
to read as above.
Is Robbins, under the law and evidence, answerable over to
the city for the judgment recovered by Woodbury?
It is well settled that a municipal corporation having the
exclusive care and control of the streets, is obliged to see that
they are kept safe for the passage of persons and p :operTy, and
to abate all nuisances that might prove dangerous; and if this

plain duty is neglected, and any one is injured, it is liable for
the damages sustained. The corporation has, however, a remedy
over against the party thai is in fault, and has so used the streets
as to produce the injury, unless it was also a wrong doer. If it

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

428

Chicago City vs. Bobbins.
was through the fault of Robbins that Woodbury was injured,
he is concluded by the judgment recovered, if he knew that the
suit wias pending and could have defended it.
An express notice to him to defend the suit was nc_ -ecessary
in order to charge his liability. Barney vs. Dewey, (13 John.,
p. 226); Warner vs. HcGany, (4 Vt., 500); Beers vs. Pinney,
(12 Wend., 809).
He knew that the case was in Court; was told of the day of
trial; was applied to to assist in procuring testimony; and wrote
to a witness, and is as much chargeable with notice as if he had
been directly told that he could contest Woodbury's right to
recover, and that the city would look to him for indemnity.
Robbins is not, -however, estopped from showing that he *as
under no obligation to keep the street in a safe condition, and
that it was not through his fault the accident happened. It is
insisted, that inasmuch as Robbins had no express permission
from the City to encroach on the street, that he was engaged in
an unlawful work, and the digging of the area was in itself a
nuisance. So far as the City impliedly could give authority to
make this area, it was given; the corporation undoubtedly knew
that this area was in process of construction, and that many
similar ones had been built since the grade of the City was
raised, qnd yet no objection was ever interposed. Areas, like
. controversy, are convenient to the owners of adjoin
the o
ing buildings, and useful in affording light and air, and if during
their construction they are properly guarded and protected, they
are no essential hindrance to the public in their right of transit
over the streets. The public have a right to the free passage
of the streets, and yet that right cannot always be enjoyed.
Improvements could not be made in a large City; houses could
not be built, or repaired even, without the streets being at some
time obstructed. In Commonu)ealth vs. Passmore, (1 Serg. &
jRawle., 217,) the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania say: "It is
true that necessity justifies actions which would otherwise be
nuisances. It is true also that this necessity need not be absolute, it is enough if it be reasonable. No man has a right to
throw wood or stones into the street at pleasure. But inasmuch

SUPREME

COURT.

Chicago City vs. Bobbins.
as fuel is necessary, a man may throw wood into the street for
the purpose of having it carried to his house, and it may lie
there a reasonable time. So, because building is necessary,
stones, brick, lime, sand, and other materials may be placed in
the street, provided it be done in the most convenient manner."
"But these encroachments on a street must be reasonable, not
continued longer than is necessary, and must be properly guarded
and protected so as to secure the public against danger, and if
these things do not concur, then they become nuisances and can
be abated." Clark vs. Fry, (8 Ohio State Reports, 359).
Was the building of this area a necessary encroachment on
the street; and if so, were the proper steps taken to secure it so
as to protect the public from injury? The fact that an improvement may become dangerous, and involve great hazard, is no
argument against the propriety of making it. If by great care,.
and more than ordinary diligence, it can be made, and the public
saved from harm, and it is also necessary, then the right to make
it is solved. The grade of the City was doubtless raised to secure
light and air to basements, to get good cellars, and for purposes
of drainage. The value of property in a City is much enhanced
by the erection of solid and durable buildings, and every proper
facility to perfect them should be. given to builders. If it is
necessary, in order to make a better building to occupy the
sidewalk and dig an area, and it can be occupied, and the area
dug and secured without danger to the public, then the encroachment made on the street is reasonable, and the work la~vful.
But in every improvement like the one we are considering, it is
essential that every possible precaution should be used against
danger. No precaution whatever was used in this case. The
area was left uncovered, without guards and lights to warn those
who passed by, and a serious accident was the result. If an
area is left open it is dangerous, and is a nuisance, and can be
abated.
Dygett vs. Schenck, (23 Wend., 446); Congreve vs.
Morgan & Smith, (18 N. Y., 84); Storrs vs. City of Mtica, (17
N. Y., 108); Coupland vs. ffardingham, (3 Campbell, 398).
The City must be reimbursed unless it has been itself in fault.
The ru e of law is, that one of two joint wrong doers cannot have

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Chicago, City vs. Bobbins.
contribution from the other. It is difficult in this case to see how
the City was to blame, and least of all how Robbini can impute
blame to it. Robbins desired to erect a harge storehouse, and to add
to its convenience, wished to excavate the earth in the sidewalk in
front of his lot. Without express permission from the city, but
-under an implied license, he makes the area. No license can be
presumed from the City to leave the area open and unguarded
even for a single night. •The privilege extended to Robbins was
for his benefit alone, and the city derived no advantage from it
except incidentally. Robbins impliedly agreed with the City,
that if he was permitted to dig the area, for his own benefit, that
he would do it in such a manner as to save the public from
danger, and the City from harm. And he cannot now say that
true it is you gave me permission to make the-area, but you
neglected your duty in not directing me how to make it, and in
not protecting it when in a dangerous condition. If this should
be the law, there would be an end to all liability over to municipal corporations, and their rights would have to be determined
by a different rule of decision from the rights of private persons.
Because the City is liable primarily to a sufferer by the insecure
state of the streets, offers no reason why the person who permits
or continues a nuisance at or near his premises should not pay
the City for his wrongful act. The City gave no permission to
Robbins to create a nuisance. It gave him permission to do a
lawful and necessary work for his own convenience and benefit,
and if in the pr6gress of the work, its original character*was
lost, and it became unlawful, the City is not in fault. We can
see no justice or propriety in the rule, that would hold the City
under obligation to supervise the building of an area such as
this.
But the defendant maintains "that the owner of a lot who
employs a competent and skilful contractor (exercising an
independent employment) to erect a building on his lot, is not
liable to third persons for injuries happening to them by reason
of the negligence of such contractor in the prosecution of the
work," and that this area was not such a nuisance as rendered
him liable. Hor 1nr owners of real estate, or.personal property,

426

SUPREME COURT.
Chicago City vs. Bobbins.

are answerable for injuries which arise in carrying into execution
that which they have employed others to do, has been a subject
much discussed in England and this country since the case of
Bush vs. Steinman, 1 Bos. & Pul., 404. All the cases recognize
fully the liability of the principal where the relation of master
and servant, or principal and agent exists; but there is a conflict
of authority in fixing the proper degree of responsibility where
an independent contractor intervenes. We are not disposed to
question the correctness of the rule contended for by the defendant as an abstract proposiiion. The rule itself has, however,
limitations and exceptions, and we cannot see that it is applicable
to this case.
"If the owner of real estate suffer a nuisance to be created, oi
continued, by another on or adjacent to his premises, in a prosecution of a business for his benefit, when he has the power to
prevent or abate the nuisance, he is liable for an injury resulting
therefrom to third persons." Clark vs. Fry, (8 Ohio State Rep.,
359); Ellis vs. Sheffield Gas Consumers' Co., (2 Ellis & Black, 75
Eng. C. L., p. 767).
This area when it was begun was a lawful work, and if properly
cared for, it would always have been lawful; but it was suffered
to remain uncovered, and thereby became a nuisance, and the
owner of the lot, for whose benefit it is made, is responsible.
He cannot escape liability by letting work out like this to a
contractor, and shift responsibility on to him if an accident
occurs. He cannot even refrain from directing his contractor in
the execution of the work so as to avoid making the nuisance.
A hole cannot be dug in the sidewalk of a large City and left
without guards and-lights at night, without great danger to life
and limb, and he who orders it dug, and makes no provision for
its safety, is chargeable, if injury.is suffered.
It is said that Robbins did not reserve control over the mode
and manner of doing the work,'ind is not therefore liable; but
the digging this area necessarily resulted in a nuisance-was the
result of the work itself-unless due care was taken to make the
area safe.
This is a clear case of "doing unlawfully what might be done

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

427

Chicago City vs. Bobbins.
lawfully; digging earth in a street without taking proper steps
for protecting from injury." Newton vs. Ellis, (85 Ellis & Black.
58 Eng. 0. Lb., 123).
"If the owner of real estate builds an area in front of his store,
he must at his peril see that the street is as'safe as if the farea
had not been built" Congreve vs. Morgan& Smith, (18 N. Y., 84).
The privilege of making the area was a special favor conceded
to Robbins alone, as the owner of the lot, and "it is a familiar
principle that when one enjoys a privilege ii consideration that
ne alone can enjoy the benefit, he is required to use extraordinary
care in the exercise of that privilege." Nelson vs. Godfrey, (12

Illinois, 20).
]Robbins, in the exercise of his privilege, did not use even
ordinary care. There is no provision in his contract with
Button, nor with the men who laid the flagging, or put on the
iron grating, that they should provide proper lights and guards.
What Button failed to do, by which he is chargeable -with
negligence, does not appear in the evidence. And Robbins,
although repeatedly warned, and having daily supervision over
the work by his architect and superintendent, suffers this
nuisance to be continued. A case of grosser negligence could
hardly be imagined. In the heart of a large City, the owner of
a valuable lot, being desirous of adding to the value of a large'
iron building that he is about to erect by the license (to be
inferred, not expressed,) of the corporatioh, digs an area; leaves
it open, without "guards or lights; fails to provide with his
contractor for the very matter which, if left undone, would make
it a nuisance; is told of the dangerous c6ndition of the area; has
a direct supervision over it by his superintendent, and yet, when
an injury is suffered by the very nuisance which he has created
for his own benefit, and continued, insists that he is not in fault;
that if bldme attaches anywhere, it ii to his contractor. If the
owner of fixed property is not responsible in such a case as this,
it would be difficult ever to charge him with responsibility.
In the cases which were cited by the defendant's counsel, and
relied on, was the case of Hilliardvs. Bichardson,(3 Gray, 849)

428

SUPREME COURT.
Chicago City vs. Bobbins.

and the case of Scammon et al. vs. The City of Chicago, (25th
Ills., 424).
Hilliard vs. Richardson was a ifhost elaborate and able dis
cussion of the respondeat superior, and the authorities in this
country and England were fully reviewed, and we see no reason
to question the conclusion at which the Court arrived. But that
case and the one at bar were not at all alike. That was a case
where the owner of a building contracted with a carpenter at an
agreed sum to repair it, and a teamster, who was employed by
the carpenter to haul boards, left them in the street in front of
the lot and an accident happened. The teamster, when he placed
boards in the street, was engaged in a wdrk collateral to that
which the owner contracted for-the repair of the buildingand in no sense can the injury be said to happen from the doing
of that defectively which the owner directed to be done. The
owner was correctly not held liable, and one of the grounds on
which that Court place their decision was, "that it was not a
nuisance erected by the owner of the land, or by his license, to
the injury of another."
The case of Scammon vs. The City of Chicago, is similar in
many of its facts to this case, and is decided differently. That
Court held, as we do, that if the "nuisance necessarily occurs in
the ordinary mode of doing the work, the occupant or owner is
liable; but if it is from the negligence of the contractor or his
servants, then he should alone be responsible." But the Court
also held that "the omission to cover the opening in the area
did not necessarily occur as an incident to the prosecution of the
work," a rule to which we cannot assent, and which we think is
opposed by reason and authority.
It was urged at the bar that this Court, in such cases, follows
the decision of the local Courts.
Where rules of property in a State are fully settled by a series
of adjudications, this Court adopts the decisions of the State
Couit:.
But where private rights are to be determined by the appli.
cation ,f common law rules alone, this Court, although entertain

DECEMBER TERM. 1862.
Chicago City vs. .Robbins.
ing for State tribunals the highest- respect, does not feel bound
by their decisions.
Testing the question of the correctness of the charge of the
Judge of the Circuit Court to the jury, by the rules and principles we have discussed and established, was there or not erroi
in it?
The following language was used by the Judge in his charge,.
and was excepted to by the City: "If, then, the contractors were
in possession and control of the premises, with their servants and
agents, and were, in their employment, independent of the defendant at the time of the accident, and the defendant was not conit follows,
cerned personally in the negligence which caused it,
from what has been said, that he could iiot be held responsible
for it." This instruction, in a case where the facts warranted,
might have been properly given. But it did not arise out of the
facts of this case; was inapplicable to them; was calculated to
confuse and mislead the jury on the question of Robbins'
liability; and must have misled them, and should not have been
given.
A broad rule was laid down, when the very case itself furiished an exception.
Robbins' duty was absolute to see that the area, dug under
his direction and for his benefit, should be safely and securely
guarded, and failing to do so, his liability attached, and' the jury
should have been told so.
The City also ekcepted to so much of the said charge of the
Court, as leaves the question of joint negligence on the part of
the plaintiff and defendant to the jury.
The City was not in fault, and this exception was properly
taken.
The judgment below is reversed, with instructions to award a
venire de novo.

