CAPITAL BANK v. CADIZ BANK.

425

Syllabus.

is entirely clear that it was intended to apply to bonds'issued
under authority of the legislature, and purporting oh their
face to be legal obligations of the county, whether in fact
legal or not; and to put the matter still further beyond question, they are expressly declared to be legal and valid. It
is true that, by the tenth section of the act, of Congress of
June 25, 1890, the loan commissioners were authorized to
refund municipal bonds "upon the official demand of said
authorities" of the municipalities, but there is no limitation
of that kind in section seven of the territorial funding act
of March 19, 1891, which declares that "any person holding
bonds, etc., .
.
may exchange the same for the bonds
issued under the provisions of this act at not less than.tbeir
face or par value and the accrued interest at the time of the
exchange."
In addition to this, however, the act of Congress of June 6,
1896, dechred that all the- outstanding bonds, wariants and
other evidences of indebtedness of the Territory and its
municipalities shall be funded with the interest t.hereon, etc.
We are, therefore, of opinion that it was made the duty
of the loan commissioners by these acts to fund the bonds in
question, and that
The order of the Szipreme -Court of the Territory must be
reversed, and the case remanded to that court for further
.proceeding8not inconsistent with the opinion of this court.

CAPITAL NATIONAL BANK OF LINCOLN -v. FIRST
NATIONAL BANK OF CADIZ.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 72. .Argued December 2, 5, 1898. -Decided

January 3, 1899.

A writ of error from this court to revise the judgment of a state court
can only be .maintained when within the purview of section 709 of the
Revised Statutes.
If the d~n!al by the state court of a right under a statute of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.
* States is relied on as justifying the interposition of this court, before it
can be held that the state court thus disposed of a Federal question, the
record must show, either by the words used or by clear and necessary
intendment therefrom, that the right was specifically claimed; or a dellfiute issue as to the possession of the right must be distinctly deducible
from the record, without an adverse decision of which, the judgment
could not have been rendered.
Though a Federal question may have been raised and decided, yet if a question, not Federal- is also raised and decided, and the decision of that question is sufficient to support the judgment, this court will not review the
judgment.
No Federal right was specially set up or claimed in this case at the proper
time or in the proper way; nor was any such right in issue and-necessarily determined; but the judgment rested on non-Federal grounds entirely sufficient to support it.
The record discloses no Federal question asserted in terms save in the application to the Supreme Court for a rehearing, when the suggestion came
too late.
The petition did, indeed, allege that the Capital National Bank was organized under the banking act, and that a receiver was appginted, who took
possession of the bank's assets and of all trusts and moneys held by it
in a fiduciary capacity, and the answer admitted these averments, respecting which there was no controversy; yet no right to appropriate trust
funds was claimed by defendant under any law of the.iUnited States, nor
was it asserted that any judgment whi-6h might be rendered for plaintiff
Wvould be in contravention of any provision of the banking act.
CaliforniaBank v. Kennedy, 167 U. S.'362, distinguished from this case.

Tnis was an action brought by the First National Bank of
Cadiz, Ohio, against the Capital National Bank of Lincoln,
Nebraska, and Macfarland, the receiver thereof, in the district
court of Lancaster. County, Nebraska.
The petition contained five counts for moneys belonging to
plaintiff received by defendant from notes transmitted to it
for collection and remittance.
Each of the counts concluded thus:
"Plaintiff further says that on or before the 21st day of
January, 1893, the said defendant bank then and there became
and for some time prior thereto had been insolvent, and that
under and i* pursuance of the laws of the United States the
said defendant, Macfarland, was duly appointed and is now
acting as a receiver thereof, and that all the assets and trusts
in and belonging to said bank and the beneficiaries thereof

CAPITAL BANK v. CADIZ BANK.
Statement of the Case.

passed into" the possession of and are now held by the said
Macfarland for the said bank, and all trusts or moneys held or
obtained by said bank in a fiduciary capacity passed into the
hands of said defendant, Macfarland, and he now holds the
same in the same capacity that the said bank did before he
took possession thereof.
"That in the collection of said note the said Capital National Bank was 'acting as the agent of this plaintiff for the
purpose aforesaid, and the money so collected was the property of and belonged to this plaintiff,; that said amount so collected never was a part of th6 assets of said bank and never
belonged to the stockholders thereof; that whether or not.
said amount was ever mixed or mingled-with the true assets
of said bank plaintiff is unable to state, but does allege that if
the same was mixed or mingled with the assets of said bank
that the same was done wrongfully and fraudulently by the officers of said bank and without the knowledge or consent of
this plaintiff; that a part of the business and powers of said.
bank was the collection and remittance of moneys for persons
and corporations, and that the said defendant bank was acting
as agent for that purpose as hereinbefore alleged."
The prayer was "that an account may be taken of the trust
funds to which the plaintiff may be :entitled, and that a decree
be entered against the said Capital National Bank and the
said John D. Macfarland, directing the payment or delivery
to plaintiff of the amount of said collections, and that the said
amount be decreed to be a trust fund in the hands of said bank
and receiver to be first paid 'to this plaintiff, together with
interest thereon, as damages, out of any money that may have
passed to or afterwards come into the possession of said bank
or receiver as a preferred or special claim, and that plaintiff
may-have such other or further relief as in equity it may be
entitled to."
Macfarland having resigned the receivership, Hayden was
appointed to succeed him, and filed an answer, (stating preliminarily that he answered "as well for the .said defdndant
bank as for and on his own account as receiver thereof,") admitting the insolvency of the defendant bank, the appoint.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

ment of Mvacfarland as receiver and his taking possession of the
bank, "with all and singular its rights, credits, effects, trusts
and duties," and setting up his own subsequent appointment.
With the exception of the admissions, the answer amounted
to a general denial, there being a special denial of the receipt
or collection by the bank or the receiver of the note mentioned
in the first count.
The cause came on for hearing, and, after the default of the
bank was tacen and entered, was tried by the court, which
made certain findings of fact, and entered the following judgment: "It is, therefore, considered, ordered, adjudged and
decreed by the court that the said plaintiff, the First National
Bank of Oadiz, Ohio, do have and recover of and from the said
defendant, the Capital National Bank of Lincoln, Nebraska,
the amount of the trust fund hereinbefore found to belong to
plaintiff, to wit, eight thousand and fifty (8050) dollars, with
interest thereon, at the rate of seven per cent per annum, from
January 20, 1893, principal and interest amounting to the sum
of eight thousand and seven hundred twenty-two and -%
($8722.95) dollars at the date of this decree. And it is further
ordered, adjudged and decreed by the court that the said defendant, Kent K. Hayden, receiver of the said defendant, the
Capital National Bank, be, and he is hereby, ordered to pay
the plaintiff'the amount of said trust fund in -his hands, as
hereinbefore found, to wit, the sum of eight thousand and fifty
dollars, together with seven per cent interest thereon from
January 20, 1893, as damages for the detention thereof, the
said principal and interest at the date of this decree aiounting to the sum of eight thousand seven hundred twenty-two
and W ($8722.95) dollars, out of any money now in his hands
or.that may come into his hands as such-receiver; that when
said money or any part of.it is paid under this order, the same
shall apply on the above judgment against said defendant bank; that the said defendant bank and said defendant,
Hayden,. pay the costs of this action, taxed at $50.03."
Thereupon the defendant bank, "by Kent K. Hayden, its
receiver," moved for a new trial on these grounds: "1. The
judgment is not sustained by sufficient evidence. 2. The judg-

-

CAPITAL BANK v. CADIZ BANK.
Statement of the Cas6.

ment is contrary- to law. 3. Errors of law occurring at the
trial duly excepted to. 4. There is error in the assessment of
the amount of recovery in this, that the judgment allows the
plaintiff interest on his claini from and after the failure of the
Capital National Bank." The motion was overruled, a bill of
exceptions duly taken, and the cause carried to the Supreme
Court of Nebraska on error.
The application to thatcourt for the writ of error assigned
twenty-seven errors. Some-of these asserted that certain enumerated findings of fact were not '"sustained by the law;"
and the 21st, 22d, 23d, 24th, 25th, 26th and 27th were:
"21. The court erred in rendering judgment against the
plaintiff in error for interest upon the amounts collected by
the plaintiff in error for the defendant in error.
"22. The court erred in rendering judgment against the
plaintiff for the costs.
. "23. The court erred in holding that money collected by
the Capital National Bank was a trust fund in the hands of
the receiver for the benefit of the'defendant in error.
"24. The court erred in rendering. judgment against the
plaintiff in error for the full amount of the notes collected by
the Capital National Bank.
"25. The court erred in rendering a judgment which had
the effect of making the defendant in error a preferred creditor over the other creditors of the Capital National Bank.
"26. The court erred in ordering thait.the amount, of the
judgment should be paid out of any money then in the hands
or that might thereafter come into the hands of the plaintiff
in error..
"27. The court erred in rendering a judgment which would
become a lien upon all, the. assets of the Capital National
Bank."
The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment of the district
court, and, its judgment having been entered, the receiver
applied for a rehearing, assigning five reasons therefor, of
which'the fifth was as follows: "Because said judgment and
decree of said district court so affirmed by said judgment and
decree of this court adjudged the amount found due the

430'

0CTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff therein to be a lien upon the property and assets
now in the possession of the appellant or which shall hereafter come into his'possession, and to be paid out of the proceeds thereof in preference and priority to other creditors of
said bank, and is in violation of the provisions of the ' national
bank act' of the United States under whose authority his
appellant was appointed and is acting."
The petition *for rehearing was denied, and thereafter this
writ of error was allowed.
After the case had been docketed, the death of Hayden
was suggested, and the appearance of John W. McDonald,
appointed his successor as receiver, was entered.
Mr. A. .Hcrvey and .Mr. John H . Ames for plaintiffs in
error. Mr. Amasa Cobb was on their brief.
X2Ir. L. C. Burr for defendant in error.
ir. NYewton C.
Abbott and .Afr. Arthur W. Lane filed a brief for same.
'MR.
CHIEF JusTIcE

FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The writ of error from this'cofirt to revise the judgment
of a state court can only be maintained when within the
purview of section' 709 of the Revised Statutes.
If the denial by the state court of a right under a statute
of the United States is relied on as justifying -our interposition, before it can be held 'that the state court thus disposed of a Federal question, the record must show, either by
the words used or by clear and necessary intendment therefrom, .that the right was specifically claimed; or a definite
issue, as to the possession of the right must be distinctly deducible from the record, without an adverse decision of which,
the judgment could not have been rendered.
Moreover, even though a Federal question may have been
raised and decided, yet if a question, not Federal, is also
raised and decided, and the decision of that question is sufficient to support the judgment, this court will not review the
judgment.,

CAPITAL BANK v. CADIZ BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

In our opinion no Federal right was specially set'up or
claimed in this case at the proper time or in the pioper way;

nor was any such right in issue and necessarily determined;
but the judgment rested on non-Federal grounds entirely
sufficient to support it.
The record discloses no Federal question asserted in terms
save in the application to the Supreme Court for a rehearing,.
when'the suggestion came too late.
The petition did, indeed, allege that the Capital National
Bank was organized under the banking act, and that a receiver was appointed, who took possession of the bank's
assets and of all trusts and moneys held by it in a fiduciary
capacity, and the answer admitted these averments, respecting
which there was no controversy, yet no right to appropriate
trust funds was claimed by defendant under any law of the
United States, nor was it asserted that any judgment which
might be rendered for plaintiff would be in contravention of
any provision of the'banking act:
The motion for new trial pursued a common formula, and
one of the grounds assigned was that the judgment was
"contrary to law," but this cannot be construed as having a
single meaning, and distinctly referring to the denial of a
right claimed under an act of Congress, consistently with
the requirements of section 709 of the Revised Statutes as
expounded by numerous decisions of this court.
California Bank v. Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362, is not to the
contrary, as counsel seem to suppose. There the question
was whether a national bank could purchase or subscribe to
the stock of another corporation- and the answer averred that
if the stock in question appeared to have been issued to the
national bank, it was "issued without authority of this corporation defendant, and without authority of law." -The
grounds presented on motion for new trial, and in the specifications of error which formed. the basis of the appeal to the
Supreme Court of the State, iisserted the want of power under
the laws of the United States; and the. California Supreme
Court said in its opinion that the bank appealed on the
ground "that, by virtue of the statutes under' which it is

OCTOBER TERM, '1898.
Opinion of the Court.

organized, it had no power to become a stockholder in another corporation." The generial rule was not questioned that
if the alleged right was not claimed before judgment in the
highest court of the State, it could not be asserted in 'this
court.'
''This rule was not complied with here, nor was any Federal
qtiestion'in terms decided, while on the contrary the judgment
was e±plicitly rested on non-Federal grounds.
The contention of plaintiff was that the Capital National
Bank had money in its hands which belonged, to plaintiff;
did not belpng t6 the bank; had never formed part of its
assets; and was held by the bank in trust for plaintiff.
The right' to the money was considered by the trial court
in the light of general equitable principles applicable on the
fad-,, and the court adjudged that the money cobstituted a
trust fund to which plaintiff was entitled.
The decision did not purport to affect the assets of the
bank, or attempt to direct the distribution thereof, or in any
way to interfere with the disposition of assets actually belong.
ing to the bank; "nor did it 'affect the receiver as receiver, or
his appointment or aithority under the banking act. As the
trial court found that certain moneys held by the bank in trust
for plaintiff had come into the receiver's hands, he was directed
to return them, for he had no stronger title to the trust fund
as against the plaintiff than the bank had.
When the case came to the Supreme Court, that court, finding no reversible error in the record, affirmed the judgment
of the. district court, and filed an opinion, 49 Neb. 795, stating: "This case is of the same general nature as Cavital NVrat.
Bank et al. v. Coldwater Nat. Bank, 49 Neb. 786. It was
'submitted upon the same argument, and, governed by the
'result reached in that case, this is affirmed." From the opinion in the case thus referred to, it appears that that case, now
on our docket and numbered 73, was submitted to the Supreme
Court of Nebraska with this case numbered 72, and with three
others, also brought here, and numbered 74, 75 and 76, and
that the five cases were disposed of by the opinion in No. 73.
The Supreme Court there held that:

CAPITAL BANK v. CADIZ BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

"A fund which comes into the possession of a bank with
respect to which the bank had but a single duty to perform,
and that is to deliver it to the party thereto entitled,, is a trust
fund, and is therefore incapable of being commingled with the
general assets of such bank subsequently transferred to its receiver.
"Under the circumstances above indicated, the receiver of
the bank is merely substituted as trustee, and its funds in his
hands should be devoted to discharging such trust before
distribution thereof is made to the general creditors of the
bank."
Among other things, the court said: "It is conceded by the
plaintiff in error that the relief granted by the district court
was in conformity with the views expressed more or less directly
by this court in Wilson v. Coburn, 35 Neb. 530; AnheuserBusch Brewing Association v. XAorris, 36 Neb. 31; Griffin v.
Chase, 36 Neb. 328; and State v. State Bank of Iahoo, 42
Neb. 896, but it is urged that a reexamination of the principles involved should satisfy us that these cases proceeded upon
an erroneous view of the law as now settled. A very careful
examination has been made of all cases cited in respect to the
pivotal question which has already been sufficiently indicated
as having been acted upon by the district court." And after
reviewing these cases the court announced that it was not
convinced that it slhould recede from the line of its former
decisions.
We know of no provision of the banking act which assumes
to appropriate trust funds in the possession of insolvent banks,
or other property in their possession to which they have no
title, and it is clear that ihe state courts had jurisdiction to
determine whether this money was or was not a trust fund
belonging to plaintiff.
The receiver made no effort to remove the litigation to the
Circuit Court, contested the issues on a general denial, and
set up no claim of a right under Federal statutes withdrawing
the case from the operation of general law.
In these circumstances the result is that this court has no
jurisdiction to revise the judgment of the Supreme Court of
voL. CLXXiI-28

431

OCTOBER TERMY,

189&

Syllabus.

Nebraska, and we; necessarily, intimate no opinion in respect
of the views on which the case was disposed of.
Writ of error dismised.

CAPITAL NATIONAL
TIONAL BANK.

BANK

WATER NATIONAL BANK.
WOODEN WARE COMPANY.

COmPANY.

OF

LINCOLN

v.

COLDWATER' NA-

CAPITAL NATIONAL BANK OF LINCOLw v.

COLD-

McDoNALD v. SAMUEL CUPPLES
McDONALD v. GE
sEE FRUIT

Nos. 73, 74, 75, 76.

TH CHIEF JUSTICE: For the reasons given in the opinion in
CkpitaZ National Bank v. First National Bank of Cadiz, just decided, ante, 425, the writs of error in these cases are severally
Dismissed.

KECK

,.

UNITED STATES.

ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLvANIA.
No. 15. Argued November 10, 1898. -Decided

January 9,1899.

An Indictment based upon that portion of Rev. Stat. 3082, which makes It
an offence to "fraudulently or knowingly import or bring into the United
States, or assist in doing so, any merchandise contrary to law," charging
,.that the defendant, on a date named, "did knowingly, wilfully and unlawfully import and bring into the United States, and did assist in importing and bringing into the United States, to wit, into the port of
Philadelphia," diamonds of a stated value, "contrary to law, and the
provisions of the act of Congress in such cases made and provided" Is
clearly insufficient, as the allegations are too general, and do not sufficiently inform the defendant of the nature of the accusation against
him.
An indictment for a violation of Rev. Stat. § 2865, which charges that the
defendant "did knowingly, wilfully and unlawfully, and with intent to
defraud the revenue of the United States, smuggle and clandestinely
introduce into the United States, to wit, into the port of Philadelphia,"
certain "diamonds" of a stated value, which should have been invoiced
and duty thereon paid or accounted for, but which, to the knowledge of
the defendant and with intent to defraud the revenue, were not Invoiced

