WATER POWER CO., v. STREET RAILWAY CO.

475

Syllabus.

up in several of the motions and denied by the court. One
claim. was that the constitution of Maryland abridged the
right of trial by jury in the courts of Baltimore city iithout
making a similar provision for the counties of the State, and
that this denies to litigants of the city the equal protection of
the laws. This is not tenable. Xi8souri v. LewiJ, 101 U. S.
22; Rayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68.
The other claim was that the state courts lost jurisdiction
by reason of the pendency of a petition filed under section 641,
Revised Statutes, to remove the case to the United States Circuit Court. The petition for removal is not in the record, and
we only know that it was filed by reason of the recital in other
motions and its notice in the opinion of the Court of Appeals,
and the grounds of it do not appear in any part of the record.
In all other matters the judgment of the Court of Appeals
depends on questions of state piactice and state laws.

Judgment affirmed.

COLUMBIA WATER POWER COMPANY v. COLUMBIA ELECTRIC STREET RAILWAY LIGHT AND

POWER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 67. Argued December 6, 7, 1898.-Decided January 9, 1899.

Reading the complaint; and the answer in this case together, the question
whether the contract of the plaintiff was impaired by subsequent state
action appears on the face of the pleadings, and this court has jurisdiction to hear and determine the case.
Under Rev. Stat. ยง 709 there are three classes of cases in which the final
decree of a state court may be examined here: (1) where is drawn in
question the validity of a treaty, or statute of, or authority exercised
under, the United States, and the decision is against their validity; (2)
where Is drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or an authority
exercised under, any State, on the ground of their being repugnant to
the Constitution, treaties or laws of the United States, and the decision
is in favor of their validity; (3) where any title, right, privilege or ira-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.
munity is claimed under the Constitution, or any treaty or statute of, or
commission held or authority exercised under, the United States, and
the decision is against the title, right, privilege or immunity specially
set up and claimed by either party under such Constitution, statute, commission or authority, and in this class the Federal right, title, privilege
or immunity must, with possibly some rare exceptions, be specially set
up or claimed to give this court jurisdiction.
But where the validity of a treaty or statute of the United States is raised,
and the decision is against it, or the validity of a state statute is drawn
in question, and the decision is in favor of its validity, if the Federal
question appears in the record and was decided, or if such decision was
necessarily involved ianthe case, and the case could not have been determined without deciding such question, the fact that it was not specially
set up and claimed is not conclusive against a review of such question
here.
The provision in the act of the South Carolina legislature of Decemler 24,
1887, that the right of the State to the five hundred horse power of water
retained for the use of the penitentiary should be "absolute" authorized
the leases of such portion thereof as was not required for the individual
use of the penitentiary.
Whether the plaintiff had a legal title to the lands in question in this case
was purely a local issue, and whether the erection of a Steam plant by
the defendant was an incident of its contract with the state penitentiary
is not reviewable here.

THIs was a complaint in the nature of a bill in equity, filed
in the Court of common pleas for Richmond County, South
Carolina, by the Columbia Water Power Company, as plaintiff, to enjoin the Columbia Electric Street Railway, Light
and Power Company from using certain water power for the
propulsion of its cars, lighting its lamps and furnishing power
motors,- also from entering upon plaintiff's lands and erecting
thereon its buildings, works and machinery; and also requiring the defendant to remove such as had already been erected,
and for the payment of damages.
The bill set forth that a structure, known as the Columbia
Canal, begins above the city, passes through the city near the
western boundary, and empties into the Congaree River just
beyond the limits of the city, passing around the shoals and
falls in said river, and when constructed and in use made a
continuous communicatfon between the Broad and Congaree
rivers; that the canal was begun by the State as a public
work in the year 1824, and for the purpose of its construction

WATER POWER CO. -v. STREET RAILWAY CO.

477

Statement. of the Case.

certain lands were purchased within the limits of the city,
through which the canal was to be carried and constructed;
that the canal was used for purposes of navigation for some
time and remained, with the lands described- the property of
bhe State until February 8, 1882, when the general assembly
of the State by an act of that date authorized and directed
the canal commission to transfer the canal, with the aforesaid
lands, to the board of directors of the state penitentiary, with
all the rights and appurtenances thereto acquired by the State;
that the board was authorized and directed to, and subsequently
did take possession of the canal and lands, and proceeded with
the work of enlarging and developing the canal, expending
large sums of money for that purpose, and widened and enlarged its banks, and remained in the full possession the:eof
until December 24:, 1887, when the general assembly passed
an act, (the material portions of which are printed in the margin,') "to incorporate the board of trustees of the Columbia
1 Act of December 24, 1887.

SEcTioN 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Bepresentatives of
the State of South Carolina,now met and sitting in GeneralAssembly, and by
the authority bf the same, That the board of directors of the South Carolina
penitentiary are hereby authorized, empowered and required to transfer,
assfgn and release to the board of trustees of the Columbia Canal, hereinafter created and provided for, the property known as the Columbia Canal,
together with the lands now held.therewith, acquired under the acts of the
general assembly of this State with reference thereto or otherwise, all and
singular the rights, members and appurtenances thereto belonging; and
upon such transfer, assignment and release all the right, title and interest
of the State of South Carolina in and'to the said Columbia Canal and the
lands now held therewith, from its source at Bull's Bluice through its whole
length to the point where it empties into the Congaree River, together with
all the appurtenances thereunto belonging, shall vest in the said board of
trustees for the use and benefit of the city of .Columbia, for the purposes
hereinafter In this act mentioned, subject, nevertheless, to the performance
of the conditions and limitations herein prescribed on the part of the said
board of trustees and their assigns: Provided, That should the said canal
not be completed to Gervais street within seven years from the passage of
this act all the rights, powers and privileges guaranteed by this act shall
cease, and the said property shall revert to the State.
Snc. 2. That the said board of trustees are hereby authorized and directed,
for the development of the said canal, to take into their possession the said
property with all its appurtenances; and for the purpose of navigation, for

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
-

Statement of the Case.

Canal, to transfer to the said board the Columbia Canal with
the lands held therewith, with its appurtenances, and to develop the same," 19 So. Car. Stats. 1090; that by section one
of the'act the board of directors of the penitentiary was authorized to transfer and release to the board of trustees of the
providing an adequate water power for the use of the penitentiary and for
other purposes hereinafter named, they are hereby authorized, empowered
and directed to improve and develop the same.
SEC. 7. That the board of trustees shall, within two years from the ratification of this act, complete the said canal so as to carry a body of water
150 feet wide at the top, 110 feet wide at the bottom and ten feet deep from
the source of the canal down t6 Gervais street, and furnish the S ate, free
of charge, on the line of the canal, 500 horse 'powerof waterpower, to Sullivan
Fenner or assigns 500 horse power of water power, inder his contract with
the canal commission, and to furnish the city of Columbia 500 horse power
of water power at any point between the source of the canal and Gervais
street the city may select; and shall, as soon as is practicable, complete the
canal down to the Congaree River a few yards above the mouth of Rocky
Branch: Provided, That the right of the State to the free use of the said 500
horse power shall be absolute, and any mortgage, assignment or other transfer of the said canal by the said board of trustees or their assigns rhall
always be subject to this right.
SEc.' 21. The said board of trustees shall be, and is hereby, declared a
body politic and corporate. Its corporate name shall be "Board of Trustees of the Columbia'Canal." Its officers shall be a chairman, and a secretary and treasurer. It'shall have a corporate seal;, may make and enforce
its by-laws for its government; may purchase, sell or lease.lands adjoining
the canal useful for the purposes of the canal; may sell or lease the water
power of the canal subject to such rules and regulationsas it shall prescribe,
having first provided for the State with 500 horsepower of water power at the
penitentia-,, and 500 horse power of water power for Sullivan Fenner or
his assigns, and 500 horse power of water power for the city of Columbia;
may sue and be sued, plead or be impleaded under their corporate name,
and exercise such other powers as are hereinbefore granted, and shall fix
such compensation for the services of the secretary and treasurer as they
may deem proper.
Section 23 as amended by act of December 24, 1890. (20 S. C. Stats. 967.)
Sac. 23. That the said board of trustees, as soon as they have fully developed the said canal and secured-the payment of the debts contracted by
them in its development, they shall turn over the canal, with all its appurtenances, to the city of Columbia. But the said board of trustees shall
have full power and authority, before the said canal has been fully developed and completed and turned over to the city of Columbia, to sell, alien-

WATER POWER CO. v. STREET RAILWAY CO.

479

Statement of the Case.

canal the canal property and its lands, with their appurtenances, and that the same should vest in the trustees for the
use and benefit of the city of Columbia; that such transfer
was made and possession taken by the board of trustees, and
the property so -remained in their possession until ihe date
and year hereinafter mentioned.
That by section twenty:one of the above act the board of
trustees was declared a corporate body, and was authorized
among other things to purchase, sell or lease lands idjoining
the canal, useful for the purposes of the canal, to sell or lease
the water power of the canal subject to such rules and regulations as it should prescribe; and that by virtue of such act the
trustees became entitled to the exclusive franchise and right
to sell or lease the water power developed by the canal for
manufacturing and other industrial purposes, without let or
hindrance, and without the right of any person or corporation
to interfere or interrupt in any manner the use of such water
power, save and except it should provide a certain amount cf
water power to certain persons and parties in said act nominated and mentioned, and that no person or corporation had a
right to divert, disturb, impede or interfere with the flow of
water down the said canal. *
That by the twenty-third section of this act, as amended by
the subsequent act of December 24, 1890, 20 So. Car. Stats.
967, the board of trustees was given full power and authority
to sell, alienate and dispose of the canal, its lands and appurtenances, to any person or corporation, subject to all duties and
liabilities imposed by the act, and to all contracts made by
the board, prior to such transfer, upon the approval and conate and transfer the same and all its appurtenances, the lands held therewith, and all the rights and franchises conferred by this act on said board
of trustees, to any person or corporation, subject, however, to all the duties
and liabilities imposed thereby, and subject to all contracts, liabilities and
obligations made and entered into by said board prior to such sale and
transfer, upon the approval and consent of nine members of the city council of the city of Columbia; and before such sale, alienation and transfe"
is made thirty days' notice of the offer to purchase and the terms thereof
shall be given to the council of the city of Columbia.
Approved December24, A.D. 1890.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

sent of nine members of the council of the city of Columbia;
that in pursuance of such section, the trustees, before the completion of the canal, and on January 11, 1891, conveyed all
of said proper'y to the Columbia Water Power Company, the
plaintiff2 including the canal and all of the lands held therewith, easements, rights of way, rights of overflow and appurtenances acquired by the board of trustees, with their rights
and franchises; that the plaintiff went into possession of all
the property, and so remained in possession without any claim
or assertion of an adverse right; and thereby became entitled
to'all the franchises, privileges and immunities conferred upon
the board of trustees.
That the act of December 24, 1887, provided that upon the
development and completion of the canal the board of trustees should furnish the State free of charge five hundred horse
power of water power; and the twenty-third section of the
act as amended provided that this duty should be imposed
upon any person or corporation to whom the board of trustees
should sell or transfer the property; that in March, 1892, the
development and enlargement of the canal was completed,
and, on said date, and ever since, the plaintiff was and is ready
to furnish the State with the fi#e hundred horse power of
water pow er as required by the act aforesaid.
That the defendant, a South Carolina corporation, was organized by the consolidation of three prior companies, and
was authorized to c6nstruct through the city a street railway,
and also to maintain a system of electric lighting; that in
May, 1892, the plaintiff was informed by the board -of directors of the penitentiary that the defendant company had been
auth'orized by the said board to build a power house, with forbay, flumes and water wheels, for the purpose of utilizing the
five hundred horse power to be furnished to the State, and
that it was the purpose of such company to erect works under
such authority to develop such power, and to 'furnish to the
State, within the walls of the penitentiary, so much of said
power as had been agreed upon by and between the board of
directors of the penitentiary and the said company; that the
plaintiff gave immediate notice to the said board and to the

WATER POWE R CO. v. STREET RAILWAY CO.

481

Statement of the Case.

defendant that it would object to the use of any of its lands
or embanlfments on the west side of the canal by any person
or corporation, except so much as would be necessary for the
erection of the power house to furnish five hundred horse
power for the use of the State; that the State should have full
liberty to build such works upon the embankments of the
canal as were necessary in furnishing such* water power, but
that such works should be strictly confined to such portion of
the property of the plaintiff as should be necessary for that
purpose, and that the plaintiff would not recognize the right
of the State to assign such horse power, or any part thereof,
to any corporation to be used for private purp6ses, outside of
the walls of the penitentiary or any public institution of the
State; and that it was under no obligation to furnish water
power from the canal to be used by private corporations for
private enterprises.
That subsequently the defendant, acting through the board
of directors of the penitentiary, submitted plans and specifications for the erection of works for making the state water
power available, and plaintiff approved of the same as not
taking more of the land than was necessary for the development of the five hundred horse power for the use of the State,
and allowed the defendant to proceed with its work, which
was completed in accordance with the plans and specifications
so submitted; but that thereafter the defendant, against the
protests and objections of the plaintiff, proceeded to place in
such works machinery intended solely for the purpose of running its electric lights and street'railway, and furnishing power
to divers persons -in the city for their industries, against which
plaintiff protested, and gave notice that proceedings would be
taken to prevent such misapplication by the electric company, which, notwithstanding such protests, continues to place
such machinery in its power house for its own private purposes;
and that the plaintiff is wholly without power to prevent the
action of the defendant in such misapplication of such power
for its private purposes, owing to the duty of the plaintiff to
furnish power for the use of the State and its penitentiary, as
such power is furnished and made available at and by the same
VOL. CLXXII-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

water wheel; and that, unless such use be enjoined, it will
suffer irreparable injury and damage, and its franchise to sell
and lease water power for purposes of manufacturing and
other industrial purposes will be affected and materially injured.
That the said defendant also in February, 1893, against the
protest of the plaintiff, entered upon its premises on the western embankment of the canal and at the southern end of the
power house above mentioned, and excavated and removed the
earth, rock and works composing the foundation of such embankment to the great danger of the canal and embankment,
and began erecting the foundations for the steam engine to be
used in running generators, dynamos, etc., as above stated,
and has placed portions of its machinery in such structure to
be used in producing electric power, and in May, 1893, commenced to erect a-boiler house and coal house for use in the
same business.
The complaint further alleged that the plaintiff had performed all its obligations to the Sthte and stood ready to continue the performance of the same, but the defendant in disregard of its rights has trespassed upon its property, excavated
its embankment, and has interfered with the enjoyment of the
franchises granted to it by the State; that a judgment at law
against the company 'would be worthless, and hence the plaintiff prayed for an injunbtion against such use of the water
power and against further trespasses upon its lands.
The answer put in issue the title of the plaintiff to the lands
occupied by the defendant; denied that the board o trustees
of the canal ever became entitled to the exclusive franchise
and right to sell or lease water power developed by it for
purposes of industrial enterprises; denied that the five ,hundred .horse power reserved to the State was provided solely
for th6 individual use of the State in its public institutions;
dehiied any intent on its part to injure' the plaintiff in its franchise and property by the erectibn of its works, and alleged
that the State, being seized in fee simple of the land and entitled to the unrestricted use of the five hundred horse power
referred to in the complaint, but being without means to

WATER POWER CO. v. STREET RAILWAY CO.

4S3

Counsel for Parties.

develop the same, entered into a contract dated May 26,
1892, with the defendant, whereby it was stipulated that the
defendant should erect suitable works and machinery for the
development of such horse power, furnish to the penitentiary
so much as was necessary for its purposes, and as a consideration for this should be allowed to make use of the surplus
power for its own purposes; that such contract was there-.
after ratified and confirmed by an act of the general assembly, approved December 24, 1892, 21 So. Car. Stats. 94; and
that the defendant was entitled under such contract to the
unrestricted use of such horse power for the purposes contemplated by the contract.
The attorney general, appearing on behalf of the State,
filed a suggestion ,o the effect that if the injunction were
granted, defendant would be prevented from carrying out
its agreement with the State, and the State would be deprived of the water power it was entitled to in the manner
contracted for, and of the ievenue it had secured under the
contract. He did not, however, submit the rights of the
State to the jurigdiction of the court, but insisted that
the court had no jurisdiction of the subject, and asked that
the complaint be dismissed.
The case came on for hearing upon the complaint, answer,
the suggestion of the attorney general and the articles of
agreement, and resulted in a decree dismissing the complaint.
An appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of the State,
which affirmed the decree of the court below, (43 So. Car.
154,) whereupon plaintiff sued out a writ of error.from this
court, assigning as error the .decision of the Supreme Court
affirming the validity of defendant's contract with the board
of directors of the penitentiary, and the act of the general
assembly ratifying the same.

fr. Lel2oy F. Youmans for plaintiff in error.
If&r. William . Lyles for defendant in error. .r.
Sloan was on his brief.

John T.

48d:

OCTOBER TERI,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
1. A preliminary motion was made to dismiss this writ of
error upon the ground that no Federal question wds involved,
and even if there were such question, it was not "specially
set up and claimed" in the state court, as required by Rev.
Stat. ยง 709..
An examination of the complaint shows that' the plaintiff
relies upon the act of the general assembly of December 24,
1887. This statute (see. 1) authorizes the board of directors
of the South Carolina penitentiary, which had acquired the
ownership of the canal under a previous act of. February 8,
1882, to transfer the property to the board of trustees of the
Columbia Canal, and (sec. 7) required the completion of the,
canal and a 9reservatiom to the State,free of charge, on the line
of the canal, of five hundred horse power of water power, with
a further proviso that the right of the State to the free use of
the said five hundred horse power should be absolute, and any
mortgage, assignment or other transfer of the said canal by
the said board of trustees, or their assignees, should always
be subject to this right. In- section twenty-one this reservation is described as a provision for the State, with five hundred horse puwer of water power at the penitentiary.
By
section twenty-three, as amended ii 1890, the board of trustees was given authority to sell, alienate and transfer the
canal, with its appurtenances, lands and franchises, to any
person or corporation, subject, however, to all contracts, liabilities and obligations made and entered into by said board
prior to such sale and transfer. Pursuant to this authority,
the board of trustees, "on January 11, 1892, conveyed the
canal, and its appurtenances to the plaintiff.
The gist of the complaint is that, in 1892, the defendant, acting as the agent of the State through the board of directors
of the penitentiary, submitted plans and specifications for the
erection of works for making the said five hundred horse power
of water power available, to which the plaintiff made no objection ; but that thereafter, against its protests, proceeded to

WATER POWER CO. v. STREET R AILWAY CO.

485

Opinion of the Court.

construct in such works machinery intended for the purpose
of running its electric lights and street railway and furnishing power to the citizens of Columbia for divers industries;
and entered upon the premises of the plaintiff and laid foundations for a steam engine to be used in runnifig its generators,
etc., and began the erection of an engine house, boiler house
and coal house for the purpose of establishing a steam plant.
The complaint did not set up the contract of the board of
directors of the penitentiary with the defendant and the act
of the general assembly of December, 1892, confirming the
same, but these were both set forth in the answer and relied
upon by the defendant as its authority for the erection of its
works. In this contract the defendant agreed to erect, on the
western bank of the canal opposite the penitentiary, suitable
water wheels of sufficient capacity to utilize and develop the
five hundred horse power of water power, and to transmit
across the canal to some convenient point within the walls of
the penitentiary not to exceed one hundred horse power for
the use and benefit of the penitentiary. In consideration of
this the board of directors agreed to allow the. defendant the
use of all their rights, title and interest to the land on the
west side of the canal, and also to allow it the free and uninterrupted use of the said five hundred horse power of water
power reserved to the penitentiary, with, the exception of the
one hundred horse power so reserved for its private use. This
contract was subsequently ratified and confirmed by an act of
the general assembly approved December 24, 1892.
While no special mention is made in the complaint of the
Constitution of the United States, the whole theory of the
plaintiff's case taken in connection with the answer is that
the rights which it acquired to the five hundred horse power
in question under the act of 1887 were impaired by the subsequent act of December 21, 1892, ratifying and approving the
contiact of the board of directors of the state penitentiary
with the defendant. The contract of the defendant is set up
in the complaint, and although the act of December, 1892,
ratifying the same is not set up there, it appears in the answer
and is relied upon as validating the contract; so that, reading

OCTOBER TERIIM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the complaint and answer together, the question whether the
contract of the plaintiff was impaired by subsequent State
action appears on the face of the pleadings.
In passing upon the case, the Supreme Court,, speaking
through Mr. Justice Gary, held that one of the objects of the
plaintiff's action was to have the contract between the State
and the defendant as to the five hundred horse power declared
null and void on the ground that the State could not lease the
same. In view of an intervening: suggestion, filed by the
attorney -general, to the purport that the State had interests
which would be affected by granting the relief prayed for, he
held that the State, being an indispensable party and refusing
to become a party, the cause of action on the equity side of
the court could not be sustained; and in considering the
cause of action on the law side of the court he reached the
conclusion that the State was not an indispensable party.
He then proceeded to consider whether the contract between
the State and the defendant relative to the five hundred horse
power was null and void, and held that the proviso to section
sever of the act of 1887 being that the right of the State to
the free use of this horse power should be absolute, the construction given to it by the legislature in the act of 1892 was
correct, and that the word "absolute" was used for the purpose of creating a right in the State to this horse power separable and distinct from the ownership in other lands and not
depend~nt upon any particular lands to which it might be appurtenant. It followed that the contract between the State
and the defendant was not null and void.
He furthe held that the right of the defendant to erect the
steam plant depended upon the fact whether it was merely
incidental and essential to the enjoyment of the water power
plant.; that the parties had a right to trial by jury as to these
issues, but as no demand was made therefor the court assumed
that the Circuit CourA properly decided all questions of fact
upon which its judgment rested. Th other justices concurred
in the result, the Chief Justice saying that he was not satisfied
that the plaintiff ever acquired title to the land upon which
the works in question had been erected. There is nothing to

WATER POWER CO. v. STREET RAILWAY CO.

487

Opinion of the Court.

indicate that eithei of them dissented from the views expressed
by Mr. Justice Gary,. who presumably spoke for the court,
with respect to the Federal question.
In holding that the contract with the defendant and the
legislative adt confirming the same were -Valid, the court proceeded upon the idea that the act of 1887 authorizing the
transfer of the property to the board of trustees of the Columbia Cqnal made the reservation to the State of the five hundred
horse power an absolute one; that the directors of the penitentiary could do with it as they pleased, and hence they had
the right to turn it over to the defendant if, in their judgment,
such course was warranted by a due regard for the interests
of the State. While, in so holding, the court disposed of the
case upon the 'construction of the contract under which the
plaintiff asserted its right, such construction is no less a Federal question than would be the case if the construction of
the contract were undisputed, and the point decided upon the
ground that the subsequent act confirming the contract with
the defendant did not impair it. The question in either case
is whether the contract has been impaired, and that question
may be answered either b3.holding that there is n6 contract
at all, or that the plaintiff had no exclusive rights under its
contract, or granting that it had such exclusive rights, that the
subsequent legislation did not impair it. These are rather
differences in the form of expression than in the character of
the question involved, and this court has so frequently decided, notably in the very recent case of .AfcGullough v. Firginia,172 U. S. 102, that it is the duty of this court to determine
for itself the proper construction of the contract upon which
the plaintiff relies, that it must be considered no longer as
an open question. -. 0. Water Vorks v. La. Sugar Co., 125
U. S. 18; Bridge Proprietorsv. ilobokem Co., 1 Wall. 116.
To the argument that the Federdl right was not "specially
set up and claimed" in the language of Revised Statutes, section 709, it is replied that this is not one of the cases in which
it is necessary to do so. Under this section there are three
classes of cases in which the final decree of a state court may
be reexamined here:

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

,(1) "Where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty, or
statute of, or authority exercised under, the United States,
and.the decision is against their validity;"
(2) "Where is drawn in question the validity of a statute
-of, or an authority exercised under, any State on the ground of
their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties or laws of
the United States, and the decision is in favor of their validity ;"
(3) "Or where any .title, right, privilege or immunity is
claimed under the Constitution, or any treaty or statute of, or
commission held or authority exercised under, the United
States, and the decision is against the title, right, privilege or
immunity specially set up and claimed by either party under
such Constitution, statute, commission or authority."
There is no doubt that under the third class the Federal
right, title, privilege or immunity must be, with possibly some
rare exceptions, specially set up or claimed to give this court
jurisdiction. -Spies v. illinois,123 U. S. 131, 181; French v.
Hopkins, 124 U. S. 524; C
Ohappell v. Bradshaw, 128 U. S.
132; .Baldwinv. Jansas,129 U. S. 52; Leeper v. Texas, 139
T. S. 462; Oxley Stape Co. v. Butler County, 166 U. S. 648
But where the validity of a' treaty or statute of the United
States is raised, and the decision is against it, or the validity
of a sta.te statute is drawn in question, and the decision is in
favor of its validity, this court has repeatedly held that, if the
Federal question appears in the record and was decided, or
such decision was necessarily involved in the case, and the case
could not have been determined 'without deciding such question, the fact that it was not specially set up and claimed is
not conclusive against a review of such question here. Miller
v. Nicholls, 4 Wheat. 311; Willson v. Blackbird Creek .Marsh.
Co., 2 Pet. 245; Satterlee v. .fatthewsor, 2 Pet. 380, 410;
Fisher's-Lesseev. Cockerell, 5 Pet. 2418 ; Crowell v. Randell, 10
Pet: 368; Harrisv. Dennie, 3 Pet. 292; Farney v. Towle, 1
Black, 350; Hloyt v. Shelden, 1 Black, 518; Railroad 0o: V.
Rock, 4 Wall. 177; Furmanv. Nichol, 8 Wall. 44; .Kaukauna
Co. v. Green Bay &o. Canal, 142 U. S. 254.
'The case under consideration falls within the second class,

WATER PrWER CO. v. STREET RAILWAY CO.

489

Opinion of the Court.

and, as it appears from the record and from the opinion of the
court, which may be examined for that purpose, (.Y'eiger v.
Shelby Railroad, 125 U. S. 39,) that the question was presented and decided, that the act of 1892, affirming the validity
of defendant's contract with the board of directors of' the state
penitentiary did not impair the obligation of plaintiff's contract, evidenced by the act of 1887, because that act propeily
construed conveyed no exclusive rights, we think the Federal
question sufficiently appears.
-2. Upon the merits the case presents but little difficulty.
The argument of the plaintiff is that under the act of 1887 the
board of trustees of the Columbia Canal, of which plaintiff is
the successor, took an absolute title to the canal and appurtenant lands, with the right to "purchase, sell -orlease lands adjoining the canal useful for purposes of the-canal," and to "sell
or ]ease the water power of the canal, subject to'such rules
and 'regulations as it shall prescribe, having first provided the
State with five hundred horse power of water power at the
penitentiary," for the individual use of the -penitentiary alone,
and 'with no right to lease or sublet it to others for private
gain. In support of this contention, plaintiff relies not only
upon the act of 1887, under which it takes title, but upon
certain prior acts of the general assembly.
Thus, under section two of -the act of September 21, 1866,
"to provide for the establishment of a penitentiary," 13 So.
Car. Stats. No.4797, p. 393, it was made the duty of th6 commission "to select and procure a proper site, at some point if
practicable where water power may be made available for
manufacturing purposes within the enclosure, 6n which to
erect suitable penitentiary buildings." And by a subsequent
act, approved December 19, 1866, 13 So. Car. Stats. 408, the
commissioners, who had been authorized by a previous act of
December 18, 1865, to sell and convey the' Columbia Canal,
were authorized to sell it at public or private sale, at their
discretion, provided that at any sale that .maybe made by
said commissioners, there be made a reservation to the State
of water power sufficient for the pur8oses of the state _enltentiary for all time free of. charge. In a subsequent act of

OTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

September 21, 1868, 14: So. Car. Stats. 83, the commissioners
were vested by section four with like authority to sell at public or private sale, with a similar reservation to the State of
water power sufficient for the purposes of the state penitentiary for all time free of charge.' In another act, approved
March'12, 1878, 16 So. Car. Stats. 444, to provide for the disposal of the Columbia Canal, there was also a proviso in
section four that, "in all grants that may be made, sufficient
power shall be reserved to the State for the use of the penitentiary and the city of Columbia." So, too, in an act of
February 8, 1882, 17 So. Car. Stats. 855, to authorize the canal
company to transfer the canal and lands to the board of directors of the penitentiary, it was provided that the board of
directors should take possession on behalf of the State of the
canal with its' appurtenances, and, for thepurpose ofproviding
an, adequate water power for the use of the penitentiary,were
authorized to improve and develop the same. By section six
of the same act they were authorized "to furnish to the city
of Columbia, for the purpose of operating its water works and
other purposes, five hundred horse power of water power;
after reserving for the use of .the penitentiary a
.
power sufficient to meet the deniands of its ordinaryoperations
and other.industries conducted and carriedon within its walls,
they are further authorized,.with the comptroller general on
behalf of the State, to lease to other persons or corporations
water power upon such terms and upon such annual rental per
horse power as in their judgment may be proper, and also to
lease such mill sites along the line of thd said canal as may be
owned by the State, upon such terms as may be deemed most
advantageous .to the interest of the State."
It will be observed- that these acts are progressively liberal
to the State; that the earlier ones contemplated the use of the
water power only for manufacturing purposes within the walls
of the penitentiary, while the later ones indicated that such
power was also reserved for the use of the city of Columbia,
for the purpose of operating its water works and other purposes, as well as for leasing to others. But however cogent
these acts might be to indicate that the object of the State
.and

WATER POWER CO. v. STREET RAILWAkY CO.

491

Opinion of the Court.

was to reserve to the individual use of -the penitentiary the
five hundred horse power, it is equally clear that the act of
1887 is decisive of a change of purpose in that. regard ; and
in providing that the right of the State to the free use of its
amount of water power should be absolute, it meant that the
directors of the penitentiary should make such use of it as
they pleased, regardless of prior acts, and the immediate requirements of -the penitentiary. The clearer the reservation
for the individual use of the penitentiary may have formerly
been, the clearer the change of purpose becomes manifest by
the use of the word "absolute."
The theory of the plaintiff
is that by the use of this word was meant simply the right of
the State to the free use of the said five hundred horse power,
unaffected by any mutations of ownership. This, however,
was already secured to the State by the previous clause of
section seven, requiring the board of trustees "to'furnish to
the State, free of charge, on the line of the canal, five hundred
horse power of waterpower." Nor are the requirements of
this word met by treating it as the equivalent of "1perpetual"
or "for all time." In construing statutes words are taken in
their ordinary sense. No authority can be found for such a
definition of the word "absolute;" nor does the context suggest it. - Its most ordinary signification is "unrestricted" or
"unconditional." Thus, an absolute estate in land is an estate
in fee simple.
2 B1. Com. 104:; Johnson v. .entosh, 8
Wheat. 543, 588; -Fullerv. ]Misroon, 35 So. Car. 314, 332;
John8on v. Johnson, 32 Alabama, 637; Converse v. Kellogg, 7
Barb. 590, 599. In the law of insurance, that is an absolute
interest in property which is so completely vested in the individual that there could be no danger of his being deprived
of it without his own consent. -Houghv. City .FieIns. Co., 29
Conn. 10; Reynolds v. State .Afutual Ins. Co., 2 Grant'sCases,
326 ; Washington Fire Ins. Co. v. _Yelly, 32 Maryland, 421.
We have no doubt that in providing that the right of the
State should be absolute, it was -intended to permit the board
of directors to do exactly what -was done in this case, i.e. to
lease such portion of the five hundred horse pox er as was not
required for the individual use of the penitentiary. Indeed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

we perceive no other reason for the insertion of this clause.
The right to use it in the penitentiary was already amply
secured by clauses so frequently inserted in prior acts that no
question of construction could be raised upon them, and when
the act of 1887 went still further it was evidently upon the
idea that.the power not necessary for the penitentiary should
not -be wasted, but should be applied to such other uses as
were conducive to the interests of the State. While the leasing of the same to the defendant may have been for private
gain, the lighting, of the city by electricity and the establishment of street railways was manifestly a public purpose.
If plaintiff's theory were sound the penitentiary would be
unable to make use of its reserved water power unless it were
also possessed of the requisite means to establish a plant,
while under its actual arrangement with the defendant it
grants to the latter its surplus water power, and in consideration thereof receives all such power as is necessary for its own
purposes, and in addition thereto a substantial annual revenue
for its other needs.
3. The remaining question as to injuries threatened and
inflicted upon plaintiff's prbperty by the entry of the defendant upon the western embanknienti of the canal, the digging,
excavating and removal of the earth, and the erection of
buildings and .machinery thereon, does not demand an extended consideration. The court of common pleas found that
plaintiff was owner of the property upon which these works
were erected, but that the State, having the right to the five
hundred horse power, had also the incidental right to lease
the same to the defendant, which took thereby the right .to
put its electric plant upon the banks of the canal, as well 'as
the supplementary right to put in -asteam plant to be used
at tiies when the water power was unavailable, by reasoii
of freshefs or by necessary repairs to the canal or other
causes. The Supreme Court did not expressly pass upon the
validity of plaintiff's title to the land, but held that whether
the contract conferred upon the defendant the right to erect
a,steam plant depended upon the fact whether it was merely
incidental to or essential to the enjoyment of the water

PITTSBURGH &c. RAILWAY v. LOAN & TRUST CO. 493
Syllabus.

plant; and that no jury having been demanded, the court
must assume that the Circuit Judge decided this question
properly; and even if there were error on his part in the
finding of fact, it was not the subject of review by the Suprene Court in a law case. It needs no argument to show
that neither of these rulings involved a, Federal question.
Whether plaintiff had a legal title to the lands was purely a
local issue, and 'whether the erection of a steam plant by the
defendant was an incident of its contract with the state penitentiary is, for the reason stated by the Supreme Court, not
reviewable here.
In addition to this, however, the deed through which the
State and the plaintiff derived their title is not in evidence
before us. The answer admitted that the State (lid acquire a
strip of land lying within the boundaries described in the bill,
but denied that the buildings erected by the defendant "at
any point touched upon said strip of land." The State appeared to have derived title from one Rawls, whose deed was
filed in the state court, but does not appear in the record
before us, and the Supreme Court of the State found that it
could not review the finding of the court below to the effect
that the plaintiff was the owner in fee of the land.
The decree of the Supreme Court of South Carolina is
therefore

Affirmed.

PITTSBURGH, CINCINNATI, CHICAGO AND ST.
LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY v. LONG ISLAND
LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY.
:ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 16. Argued April 11, 12, 1S9S. -Decided

January 9, 1899.

In view of the statute giving this court authority to reexamine tfie final
judgment of the highest court of a State, denying a right specially set
up or claimed under an authority exercised under the United States, this
court has jurisdiction to inquire whether due effect was accorded to the

