ORIENT INSURANCE COMPANY v. DAGGS.

557

Syllabus.

the judgment we do not intend to reverse what may be considered a finding of the jury in their favor.
For the reasons given, we reverse the judgment of the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columbia, with directions
to that court to reverse the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia and to grant a new trial to

the three defendants who areplaintiffs n the writ of error
sued outfi'om this court.

ORIENT INSURANOE COMPANY v. DAGGS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREM1E COURT OF THE STATE OF AISSOURI.
No. 81. Argued December 8, 1898.-Decided January16, 1SG9.

The provision in section 5897 of c. 89, art. 4 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, that "in all suits upon policies of insurance against loss or damage by fire, hereafter issued or renewed, the defendant shall not be
permitted to deny that the property insured thereby was worth at the
time of the issuing of the policy the full amount insured theiein on said
property; and in case of total loss of the property insured, the measure
of damage shall be the amount, for which the same was insured, less
whatever depreciation in value below the amount for which the property is insured, the property may have sustained, between the time of
issuing the policy and the time of the loss, and the burden of proving
such depreciation shall be upon the defendant; and in case of partial
loss, the measure of damages shall be that portion of the value of the
whole property insured, ascertained in the manner hereinafter described,
which the part injured bears to the whole property insured;" and the provision in section 5898 "that no condition of any policy of insurance contrary to the provisions of this article shall be legal or valid," are not, when
applied to a foreign insurance corporation ihsuring property within the
State in conflict with the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States, forbidding a State to make or
enforce a law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States, or to deprive any person of life, liberky or
property without due process of law; or to deny to any person within
its jurisdiction, the equal protection of the laws.
A corporation is not a citizen within the meaning of that Amendment, and
hence has not the privileges and immunities secured to citizens against
state legislation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
That which a State may do with corporations of its own creation it may do
with foreign corporations admitted into it.
.Hoqperv. California,155 U. S. 648, cited, approved and applied.
THIS

was an action at law upon a policy of insurance, issued

by the plaintiff in error, a corporation organized under the
laws of the State of Connecticut. The policy was issued in
June, 1893, insuring the defendant in error against loss or
damage by fire to a certain barn situated in Scotland County,
Missouri, in a sum not to exceed $800. The barn was, within
less than three months after -theissuing of the policy, entirely
consumed by fire, and an action was brought upon the contract to compel the payment of the entire sum of $800.
The petition filed in the case avers the delivery of the policy
of insurance to the defendant in error, and says that the company, by virtue of said policy, promised to pay the plaintiff
the sum of $800 in case said barn should be destroyed by fire,
and attaches a copy of the policy to the petition as the basis
of the action.
The answer filed by the company stated that the "defendant is a corporation, organized and existing under and by virtueof the laws of the State of Connecticut, doing a general
fire insurance business in the State of Missouri, and avers it
has been doing such business continually since "nd prior to
the first day of June, 1873, and that said defendant was and is
fully authorized to do such business in the State of Missouri."
The answer admitted the delivery of the policy and the total
destruction of the barn by fire; that the plaintiff was the
:owner thereof, and that proofs of loss bad been made.
The defendant further answering, stated that the contract
of insurance sued on in the case was the contract between the
parties, and that it provided that-' said insurance company
shall not be liable beyond the actual cash value of the property
at the time any loss or damage occurs, and that the loss or
damage shall be ascertained or estimated according to the
actual cash value of the property at the time of the fire, and
shall in no case exceed what it will cost to replace the same,
deducting therefrom a suitable amount for any depreciation
of said property from age, use or location, or otherwise."

ORIENT INSURANCE COMPANY v. DAGGS.

559

Statement of the Case.

The answer further averred that at the time of the burning
of the building in question it was not worth to exceed $100,
which amount the plaintiff in error then offered to pay, with
interest from the date of the fire, and to return the premium.
The answer of the defendant further averred as follows:
"The defendant says that section 5897 of chapter 89, article
4, Revised Statutes of the State of Missouri, compiled in the
year 1889, provides as follows: ' In all suits brought upon policies of insurance against loss or damage by fire, hereafter
issued or renewed, the defendant shall not be perrhitted to
deny that the property insured thereby was worth at the time
of the issuing of the policy the full amount insured therein on
said property; and in case of total loss of the property insured,
the measure of damages shall be the amount for which the
same was insured, less whatever depreciation in value below
the amount for which the property is insured the property
may have sustained, between the time of issuing the policy
and the time of the loss, and the burden of proving such depreciation shall be upon the defendant.' . . . And that
section 5898 of. said chapter provides that no condition in any
policy of insurance contrary to the provisions of this article,
meaning thereby article 4, shall be ]egal or valid. The defendant says that said statute was enacted prior to the issuing of
said policy and has not been repealed."
The defendant pleaded that said statute is contrary to the
constitution of Missouri, and that the same is unconstitutional,
null and void, and proceeded to aver as follows:
"The defendant further answering says that sections 5897
and 5898 of chapter 89, article 4, of the statutes of Missouri
are contrary to and in contravention of the Constitution of
the United States, which provides that no State shall pass
any bill of attainder or ex postfacto law, or laws impairing
the obligation of contracts.
"Defendant further answering says that said sections, and
each of them, are contrary to and in contravention of article
14 of the Constitution of the United States, commonly called
the Fourteenth Amendment, and particularly of article 1- of
said Amendment, which is as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"'All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United
States 'and of the State wherein they reside. 1No State shall
make or enforce any, laws which shall abridge the privileges
or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any
State deprive any person of life, liberty or property without
due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.'
"And that said sections 5897 and 5898 of chapter 89, article
4, of the Revised Statutes of Missouri are unconstitutional and
contrary to the Constitution of the United States, and are
null and void.
"That the defendant- has the constitutional 'right to limit
its liability by contract to actual damages caused by fire."
To this answer the plaintiff and assured filed a demurrer,
which demurrer the court sustained, and the defendant, electing to stand upon the ruling upon said demurrer, judgment
was entered in favor of the plaintiff, and in due course the
cause was appealed to the Supreme Court of Missouri. At
October term, 1896, the Supreme Court of Missouri rendered
an opinion in said case, affirming the judgment of the court
below. 136 Missouri, 282. The case then came to this court
in due course upon petition in error.
There are twenty-three assignments of error which present
the claim of plaintiff in error under the Constitution of the
United States and the alleged error of the state court denying
the claim.
.Mr. Ayfred H.Me'ey for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR.

JUsTicE

MoKENNA, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The statute of Missouri is alleged to violate the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States in, the
following particulars: (1) that it abridges the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the United States; (2) denies to

OIIENT INSURANCE COMPANY v. DAGGS.

561

Opinion of the Court.

persons within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the
laws; and (3) deprives persons of property without due process of law.
(1) It is not clear that this ground is relied on. It iยง, however, not available to plaintiff in error. A corporation is not
a citizen within the meaning of the provision, and hence has
not "privileges and immunities" secured to "citizens" against
state legislation. This was decided in Paul v. Virginia, 8
Wall. 168, against a corporatipn upon which were imposed
conditions for doing business in the State of Virginia, and has
been repeated in many cases since, including one at the present term, Blak v. McClung, ante, p. 239.
(2) It is not easy to make a succinct statement of the objections of plaintiff in error under this provision. Counsel says:
"The business of insurance includes insurance against damages on account of death, accident, personal injury, liability
for acts of employ6s, damages to plate glass, damages by hail,
lightning, high wind, tornadoes, and against damages to personal property on account of fire or casualty by other elements,
as well as insurance against loss or damage to buildings on
account of fire. . . . No other business is subject to the
discrimination, in case such business is involved in litigation,
of having the damages assessed without due process of law.
The statute singles out persons engaged in fire insurance as
against all other kinds of insurance, and as against all other
kinds of business, and imposes the onerous and unusual conditions provided in the statute, against such persons.'" And
again: "The statute thus discriminates as to the subject-matter, as to the parties, as to the mode of trial of actions at law
and equity, and imposes upon tlis particular class of underwriters, as distinguished from all the rest of the world, conditions which abrogate its contracts, compel it to pay damages
never sustained, and prevent it from having an investigation
upon the trial by due process of law."
This mingles grounds of objection, and confounds the prohibitions of the provision we are considering with that of the
next provision. Whether the statute of Missouri provides for
"due process ' we shall consider hereafter, and upon that conVOL. CLXXU-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

how much of the complaint against it in
sideration
that regarddetermine
is true. Now we may confine ourselves to the
more specific contention that it discriminates between fire insurance corporations or companies and those engaged in other
kinds of insurance.
It is not necessary to state the reasoning upon which classification by legislation is based or justified. This court has
had many occasions to do so, and only lately reviewed the
subject in Magoun'v. Illinois. Trust and Savings Bank, 170
U. S. 283. We said in that case that "the State may distinguish, select and classify objects of legislation, and necessarily
the power must have a wide range of discretion." And this
because of the function of legislation and the purposes to
which it isaddressed. Classification for such purposes is not
invalid because not depending on scientific or marked differences in things or persons oi in their relations. It suffices if
it is practical, and is not reviewable unless palpably arbitrary.
The classification of the Missouri statute is certainly not arbitrary. We see many differences between fire insurance and
other insurance, both to the insurer and the insured - differences in the elements insured against and the possible relation
of the parties to them, producing consequences which may
justify if not demand different legislative treatment. Of
course it is not for us to debate the policy of any particular
treatment, and the freedom of discretion which we have said
the State has is exhibited by analogous if not exact examples
to the Missouri statute in Railway Conany v. Mackey, 127
U. S. 204, 208, and in .Ainneapolis & St. Louis Railway v.
Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26.

In Railway company v. .ackey, 127 U. S. 204, a law of
Kansas was passed which abrogated as to railroads the rule of.
the common law exempting masters from liability to one servant for the negligence of another. It was sustained as a
valid classification, notwithstanding that it did not apply to
other carriers, or even to other corporations using steam.
The law was objected to, as the statute of Missonri is objected
to, on the ground that it violated the provisions of the constitution which we are now considering.

ORIENT INSURANCE COMPANY v. DAGGS.

563

Opinion of the Court.

To the first contention the court, by Mr. Justice Field, said:
"The plain answer to this contention is, that the liability imposed by the law of 1874 arises only for injuries subsequently
committed; it has no application to past injuries, and it cannot be successfully contended that the State may not prescribe
the liabilities under which corporations created by its laws
shall conduct their business in the future, where no limitation
is placed upon its power in this respect by their charters.
Legislation to this effect is found in the statute books of every
State." And after further comment added: "That its passage was within the competency of the legislature, we have
no doubt." To the second contention it was said: "1It seems
to rest upon the theory that legislation which is special in its
character is necessarily within the constitutional inhibition ;
but nothing can be farther fr'om the fact." The legislation
was justified by the character of the business of 'ailroad companies, and it was declared to be a matter of legislative discretion whether the same liability should or should not be
applied to other carriers, or to persons and corporations uing'
steam in manufactures.
In Xfinneapolis Railway Company v. Beckwith, 129 U. S.
26, a law of Iowa making a class of railroad corporations for
special legislation was sustained.
(3) "What it is for a State to deprive a person of life, lib-.
erty or property without due process of law" is not much
nearer to precise definition to-day than it was said to be by
Mr. Justice Miller in Davidson v. Nei Orleans, 96 U. S. 97.
The process "of judicial inclusion and exclusion" has proceeded, and yet this court, in Holden v. Hqrdy, 169 U. S. 366,
389, again declinedspecific definition. Mr. Justice Brown, speaking for the court, said: "This court has never attempted to
define with precision the words ' due process of law,' nor is it
necessary in this case. It is sufficient to say that there are certain immutable principles of justice which inhere in the very
idea of free government, which no member of the Union may
disregard, as that no man shall be condemned in his person or
property without due notice and an opportunity of being heard
in his defence." These principles were extended to the right

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

to acquire property and to enter into contracts with respect to
property, but it was said "this right of contract, however, is
itself subject to certain limitations which the State may lawfully impose in the exercise of its police powers."
The legislation sustained was an act of the State of Utah
making the employment of workingmen in all underground
mines and workings and in smelters and all other institutions
for the reduction and refining of ores or metals eight hours
per day, except in cases of emergency, where life or property should be in imminent danger. The violation of the
statute was made a misdemeanor.. It was undoubtedly a limitation on the right of contract- that of the employer and
that of the employed - enforced by a criminal prosecution
and penalty on the former and on his agents and managers.
It was held a valid exercise of the police powers of the State.
These powers were not defined except by illustration, nor need
we now define them. The case is a precedent to support the
validity of the Missouri statute now under consideration.
The statute provides as follows: "In all suits brought upon
policies of insurance against loss or damage by fire, hereafter
issued or renewed, the defendant shall not be permitted to
deny that the property insured thereby was worth at the time
of the issuing of the policy the full amount insured therein on
said property; and in case of total loss of the i)roperty insured,
the measure of damages shall be the amountfor which the same
waS in8ured, less whatever depreciation in Value below the
amount for whiQh the property is insured the property may
have sustained between the time of issuing the policy and the
time of the loss, and the burden of proving such depreciation
shall be upon the defendant."

.

.

.

It is also provided

that no condition in any policy of insurance contrary to such
provision shall be legal or valid.
The specific objections which, it is claimed, bring the statute within the prohibition of the Constitution, in the last
analysis, may be reduced to the following: That the statute
takes away a fundamental right and precludes a judicial inquiry of liability on policies of fire insurance by a conclusive
presumption of fact.

ORIENT INSURAnCE COMUPANY v. DAGGS.

565

Opinion of the Court.

The right claimed is to make contracts of insurance. The
essence of these, it is said, is indemnity, and that the statute
converts them into wager policies- into contracts (to quote
counsel) having for their bases speculation and profit,, "contrary to the course of the common law." The statement is
broad, and counsel in making it ignores many things. The
statute tends to assure, not to detract from the indemnity of
the contracts, and if elements of chance or speculation intrude
it will be on account of carelessness or fraud. It is-admittedthat the effect of the statute is to niake valued policieg of those issued; and the conclusive effect which has been ascribed to
their valuation has never been condemned as making them
wager policies or as introducing elements of speculation into
them.
The statute then does not present the alternative of wager
policies to indemnity policies. The change is from one kind
of indemnity policy to another kind, from open policies to
valued policies, both of which are sanctioned by the practice
and law of insurance, and this change is the only compulsion
of the law. It makes no contract for the parties. In this it
permits absolute freedom. It leaves them to fix the valuation of the property upon such prudence and inquiry as they
choose. It only ascribes estogpel after this is done -estoppel,.it must be observed, to the acts of the parties, and only to
their acts in open and honest dealing. Its presumptions "cannot be urged against fraud, and it permits the subsequent
depreciation of the propeity to be shown.
We see no risk to insurance companies in this statute. How
can it come? Not from fraud and not from change, because,
as we have seen, the presumptions of the statute do not obtain
against fraud or change in the valuation of the property. Risk
then can only come from the failure to observe care -that
care which it might be supposed, without any prompting from
the law, underwriters would observe, and which if observed
would make their policies true contracts of assurance, not
seemingly so, but really so; not only when premiums are
paying, but when loss is to be paid. The State surely has
the power to determine that this result is desirable, and to

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

accomplish it even by a limitation of the right of contract
claimed by plaintiff in error.
It would be idle and trite to say that no right is absolute.
Sic utere tuo ut alienum non Iewdas is of universal and pervading obligation. It is a condition upon which all pioperty is
held. Its application to particular conditions must necessarily
be within the reasonable discretion of the legislative power.
When such discretion is exercised in a given case by means
appropriate and which are reasonable, not oppressive or discriminatory, it is not subject to constitutional objection. The
Missouri statute comes within this rule.
The cases cited by plaintiff in error, which hold that the
legislature' may give the effect of yrina facie proof to certain
acts, but not conclusive proof, do not apply. They were not
of contract nor gave effect to contracts. It is one thing to
attribute effect to the convention of parties entered into under
the admonition of the law, and another thing to give to circumstances, maybe accidental, conclusive presumption and
proof to establish and force a result against property or
liberty.
The statute is not subject to the condemnation that it regulates contracts made or rights acquired prior to its enactment;
and we may repeat the language of Mr. Justice Field, in 2AE8sour_Railway Co. v. .Alaokey, supra, that "it cannot be successfully contended that the State may not prescribe the
liabilities under which corporations created by its laws shall
conduct their business in the future, where no limitation is
placed upon its power in this respect by their charters.
Legislation to this effect is found in the statute books of
every State."
That which a State may do with corporations of its own
creation it may do with foreign corporations admitted into
the State. This seems to be denied, if hot generally, at least
as to plaintiff in error. The denial is extreme and cannot be
maintained. The power of a State to impose conditions upon
foreign corporations is certainly as extensive as the power over
domestic corporations, and is fully explained in Hfooper v. Cali.fornia,155 U. S. 648, and need not be repeated.

UNITED STATES v. HARSHA.
Statement of the Case.

It is urged that the statute is not made a condition upon
foreign corporations, but this view is not open to our acceptance. The Supreme Court of Missouri, exercising its function
of interpretation, decides that it is. But we do not care to
enter fully into the subject of conditions on corporations,
foreign or domestic. The statute is sustained on the grounds
that we have given.
. The other contentions of plaintiff in error we do not consider
it is necessary'to review.

Judgmen a~fimed.

_________

UNITED STATES v. IIARSHA.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
1o. 127. Submitted January 11, 1599. -Decided

January 23, 1899.

A judgment of a Circuit or District Court of the United States for the plaintiff in an action at law under the act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, 24 Stat.
505, is reviewable by the Circuit Court of Appeals upon writ of error.
The provision of the act of July 31, 1894, c. 174, ยง 2, 28 Stat. 162,,205, that
"1no person who holds an office, the salary or annual compensation of
which amounts to the sum of two thousand five hundred dollars, shall be
appointed to or hold any other office to which compensation is attached,"
does not, exproprio vigore, create a vacancy'in the office of clerk of a
Circuit Court of the United States, by reason of the fact that at the
time of its taking effect the then lawful incumbent of that office is also
holding the office of clerk of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals
In the same circuit, having previously resigned the latter office, and his
resignation not having been accepted by the judges.

ON May 21, 1897, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit, upon a writ of error from that court to review
a judgment rendered by the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Michigan in favor of Walter S. Harsha in an action brought by him against the United
States, under the act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, to-recover fees
as clerk of the Circuit Court of the United States for that
district, for services rendered during the first quarter of the

