OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.,

SIMPSON

UNITED STATES.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 5.

'Argued Oetob& 19, 20,1$98.-Decided January 8,'1899.

The plaintiffs contracted with the United States to construct a dry dock at
the Bkooklyn Navy Yard according to plans and specifications, and to be
built upoh a ste that was available. No provision was made in regard to
qutcksauds-should they come upon such in making the foundations. The
main features of the contract are stated in detail in the statement of the
case below. In executing the contract the contractors came upon shiftby reason of which the work was made more difficult,
ing
.and quicksands,
was much Increased; and being unable to complete the work within
the, time specified in the contract, they asked for an extension, which
was grapted. On comp~tion p settlement wa* bad, all the money remainIng flue under the contract, and some that was due for extra work, was
paid. . It was not eptil about three years later that the claim for compens"ti for the tra tabo&t nd materials made decegssry by the quicksand was ipide; and, when it was refused, this action to recover It wa4
qClaims, and. thee decked Adversely to the
broppglgt i t~e Court of
claimants. Held, That the contract imposed upon the contractors the
Obligation to construct the dock according to the specifications within
a dosignitef &W', fo;r ali Agreed price, upon a site to e s;eiected by the
United Statest and contained no statement, or agreement or even intimatioa that",any, warranty, express or implied, In favor of the contractor
was entered Into bytheq United States concerning the cbaracter of the
underlying. soilf; and that the judgment of the court below should be

afflrmed.

THIS appeal presents for review the action of the lower
court rejecting a claim of the appellants. 31 C. CL 217.
The essential facts, as found by the court below are summarized -s follows: Pursuant to an act of Congress appropriating a stated sum for building two "timber dry docks to be
located at such navy yards ad the Secretary of the Navy may
indicate," act-of March 3, 1887, c. 390, 24 Stat. 580, 584, the
Navy Department on April 19, 1887, advertised -for proposals
for the building of two dry docks to be located, one at the
Brooklyn and the other at the Norfolk Navy Yard. The
advertisement, whilst pointing out the general nature of the
structures and their dimensions, contained no detailed plan of

SIMPSON e. UJNITED STA-TES.
Stateinent of the'Case.

the' contemplated work--but announcedthat I"d ty ddlkbuilders are invited to submit plans and, specificatio-- With -proposals for the entire consttuctidn and their completiont- in, all.
respects," and, moreover, it was said "bidders Will,'Ymke' their
plans and specifications-full and clear, dscribing thekinds: and
qualities of the materials' proposed to be used." -)Besides, the
advertisement stated that,"for information in regard ! to ihe
location and site of the docks bidders are' refeiTed to the commandants of the Brooklyn 'and Norfolk'Navy 'Yards." 'On
May the 23d, pending the publication, the Navy Department
addressed to the commandant of the Brooklya'Nav-'Yard the
following letter:
"To enable the dry dock builders who may a pl y' at the
yard under your command for information concerning the proposed new timber dry' dock, particularly reoarlin& the fOundation of the site selected for the' dock, I am inStructed 'by
the chief of the bureau to request yoii'to 'direct -the'civil
engineer of the yard to have the necessary borings 'made at
once with a view-of ascertaining the nature of the-soil' to be
excavated for the pit or basin of the dock, as' well as to what
depth, if any, below the line of water mark it will be necessary
to have the piling driven to secure a proper foundationi:for
the structure."
Conforming to these instructions, IMr. .Asserson, a civil engineer attached to the Navy Department made an examination of the soil, making borings to a depth of from thirtynine to forty-six feet at a distance of fifty feet along a certain
length in the middle of a portion of the' ground of, the navy
yard. The result of these borinigs was' deliheated on: a profile
plan purporting to show the ciaracter of the underling s6il.
It may be conceded'tthat this plan indidated thait the soil at
the'point referred to was stable and contained no quicksand.
Simpson & Co., who were' experienced dock builddrs-, applied
for information' as to' the proposed site: and a, copy of th6
plan was handed to the fir. Simpson & Co. hever knew of
the above letter until after this suit was brought, and 'they did
not intimate to any one that the bid which they proposed to
submit for doing the work was to be conditioned on the exist-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

ence in th6 soil of the site to be selected of the characteristics indicated by the profile plan. It is true, however, that
Simpson & Co. in making up their estimate and in preparing
their specifications took into view the presumed condition of
the soil, and that the amount of their bid wis made up upon
the assumption that the soil underlying the dock would prove
to be like that indicated by the plan.
In June, 1887, Simpson & Co. bid for the construction of
the docks.. The first two sentences of their proposal were as
follows:.
"The undersigned, J. E. Simpson & Co., contractors and
builders of Simpson's patent timber dry docks, of the city of
New York, in the State of New York, hereby offer to furnish, under your advertisement, dated April 19, 1887, and
subject to all the requirements of the same, and of the specifications, instructions and plans to which it refers, two timber
dry docks of like dimensions, to be built in accordance with
plans and specifications herewith submitted. On6 of said dry
docks to be located at the United States navy yard, Brooklyn,
in the port of New York, and the other at the United States
iiavy yard, Portsmouth, in the port of Norfolk, Virginia, upon
available sites to be provided by the Government, for the sum
of one million and sixty-one thousand six hundred ($1,061,600) dollars, United States currency?)
The price asked for the two docks was very near the sum
authorized by Congress to be expended for the purpose.
The specifications referred to were prepared by the firm,
and contained the following recital:
"Location. -These dry docks shall be located as follbws:
One at the United States navy yard, Brooklyn, in the port
of New York, and the other at the United States navy yard,
Portsmouth, in the port of Norfolk, Virginia, upon available
sites to be provided by the Government. Thelength of each
dry dock, respectively, shall be five hundred (500) feet inside
of head to outer gate sill."
Such other portions of the specifications as are material to
be noticed are contained in the subdivision headed " general
Construction," and are as follows:

SIMPSON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

"Piles.- All foundation, brace and cross-cap piles shall be
of sound spruce or pine, not less than twelve inches diameter
at butt and six inches at top, and of such length as may be
required for the purpose, and well driven to a firm bearing.
"Sheet piling for cut-offs shall be of sound spruce, pine or
other suitable material, four inches and five inches in thickness, as shown on plans, dressed to a uniform thickness,
grooved and fitted with white pine tongues, driven close and
to such depths as may be found necessary to make good work,
and closely fitted to square piles at intersections.
"Should the character of the bottom be found such as to
warrant a modification of the pile system of floor construction, a concrete bed of not- less than six feet in thickness may
be substituted for the foundation piles, and the floor stringers
and cross timbers imbedded therein and firmly secured thereto
with iron bolts and anchors."
The bid was accepted, and a written contract was executed.
In this contract recital was made of the advertisement for
proposals, the making of the bid with accompanying specifications and the acceptance thereof, and these documents thus
referred to were annexed and made a part of the contract.
The contract contained in its first clause the following:
"The contractors will, within twenty days after they shall
have been placed in possession and occupancy of' the site by
the party of the second part, which possession and occupancy
of the said site during the period of construction,- and until
the completion and delivery of the work hereinafter mentioned, shall be secured to the contractors by the party of
the second ,part, commence, and within twenty-four calendar
months from- such date, codstruct, and complete, ready to
receive vessels, a timber dry dock, to be located at such place
on the water line of the navy yard, Brooklyn, New York, as
shall be designated by the party of the second part; and will,
at their own risk and expense, furnish and provide all labor,
inaterial, tools, implements and appliances of every description - all of which sball be of the best kind and quality
adapted for the work as described in the specifications - nec-

'O&:
0TOB R -'.TflfM, 1898.'
Statement of the, Case.,

essary 'or irequisite in 'aiid, aboudt'the construction of said dry
' ',oTh6-seventhldause of :thecontract: is stated in the margini'
In, addition;ripenalties'wero stilulated for delay'in the, performdnce': ofh th6 'wori; and! a discietion was: vested-in the
Secretary of the Navy to allow an, extension of time for any
failur6,to complete the dock-within 'the contract period..
• The,-,work was -to be paid- for' in .instalments, ipon proper
estimate,as it'progressed, and ten'per - centwas to be' retained
by the Government -until its final completion..
.
The construction was commenced in November, 1887, and
-The construction' of the° said dy ddck- and its; access6ries' and 'appurtenances hereincontricted for shall conform,-in all, resp.ects to and with the
plansnd ,specilfcations aforesaid, which plans and speciflcatipns
pare here,
unto-annexed, and shall be deemed andI taken, as forming apart of 'this contra , wit/hlhe like opra1i and effect as f'the same were incorporated
herein. No omission in the plans or specifications df any detail, objet 'or
proyision-necessaryto'carry this contract-intp full and :complete effeci, in
accordape with the true intent and meauing hereof, shall operate tq the
disadvant ge of the United States, but the same shall be satisfactorily supphed, perf£r~hifed~seb
b ' 'the
ioserved
ontractors, 'and all clainis for extra
dobipensation iy 'eas6n 6f, or for'6r on 'ccount of, such extra:performance,
are hkereby and in consideration of the premises, -expressly waived; and it
is hereby fuherProyidd,, and this contract is upon the express condition,
that the'said plans and specifications shall not be changed in any respect
vhih the'c6st'df ~sich 'ch'zage 'shall eceed five hundred dollars, except upon
tie writenorder d6f-tthe Secretary' or 'actinkg Secretary of th
ay; and if
change. rre thus' made, thecaptdaki 'ost,thereof, and thib damage 'caused
liere~~,
shall bvis,certained, estimated gidq etermined by board of naval
officers appointed by the Secretary of the Nayy, and the contractors shall'
be boun~'y tei-deiermi'aton o said board, or a majory thereof, as to
th amoiiit of ihcreased or diminished c6niplensation, wiifIi 'they'(the- d6ntractors)' shall be entitled'tordceive,ifany,.in consequence of such change
or changes; i -1ein.g further expresly understopd, and ag eed that such
working-.plans and drawings, ana such alditional detailed plans and specificatins as may be necessary, shall be furnished by and at the expense of
the contractors, subject to't1tt approval,'of fhe -lief of the'Bureau of Yards
aiADl)ocks, Snd' thtt if during the prosecution, of the Iwbrk~itshall be found
advahtageo~us or neq¢,ssa;y tmake any change or modification in the afore.
said plans at specifibatiops, such change or modification, must be agreed
upon i writing by the contractors and by the officer'in charge of the work,
the agreement to set forth fully the reasons for such change and the nature
thereof, and to be' subject to the approval of the party of the second part.

SIM SQ.N v. -UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

after considerable labor bad been expended and material used,
"about August 31, 1888, it first became apparent that a portion of the dry dock structure had sunk and moved inward
towards the excavation, and had thereby sustained damage,
and that this damage was caused by encountering a stratum
of water-bourne sand, in the excavation, which flowed from
beneath, and undermined the banks forming the side-,of the
dock excavation."
Thereupon it was ascertained that the
"sand stratumi hereinbefore described underlay the entire area
of the site of the dock, and, beginning at a depth of from
twenty-six to thirty feet below the, grade of the side extended
to a depth of seventy feet below the same." f . .
"Between August, 1888, and October, 1889, portions of the, dry
dock structure completed by the plaintiffs during, that period
continued to settle and move inward towards the excavation.",
"This was caused by the presence of the said sand
stratum which continued to undermine the side of the dry dock
excavation; hence, portions of, the dry dock structures were
destroyed or greatly damaged2' . ..
'$During the period
aforesaid .the sand flowed into the excavation made for the dry
dock, delaying the completion-thereof, and increased.the cost of
the dock, The character of the soil, underlying said site was
not as it appeared in the profile plan in the report of the said
Asserson, in so far as the said sand stratum is concerned, and
both parties were surprised in encountering the difficulty and
expense caused by the presence of the said-sand stratum., After
the discovery of the said sand -stratum, as aforesaid, Commodore Harmony, Chief, of the Bureau of Yards and Docks, inspected the work upon the-site of the dry dock, and directed
the plaintiffs to complete the dock. By reason of the presence.
of the said stratum of sand and the difficulties caused thereby
the completion of the dock was delayed seven months.",
Simpson & Co. in the meanwhile addressed a letter to the
Navy Department, stating that, owing to " circumstances beyond our control," the existence of the quicksand, they had
been unable to complete the dock within the time fixed by
the contract, and requesting an extension :of four months.'
This request was granted.
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

"Duri'ng the entire period in which the plaintiffs were engaged in the construction of the work they did not at any
time give notice of any claim, or claim or demand any sum of
money on account of any extra work or materials furnished
by them in or about the construction of the said dry dock;
nor was any officer or agent of the Government apprised of
such a claim until the receipt of the letter of Mffessrs. Goodrich,
Deady & Goodrich, attorneys for the assignees of the plaintiffs, dated April 11, 1893."
As the work progressed estimates thereof were made as
required by the contract, and the amount, less the ten per centum reserved, was regularly paid to the contractors. Moreover, additional piling being required, a supplementary estimate thereof was made, the price for the same fixed, and the
amount was paid to the contractors.
The dock was completed May, 1890, and a board was appointed to inspect it, and upon a favorable report the dock
was finally received by the United States, and a claim for ten
per cent, .which had been retained on the amount Qf the whole
work was presented by the contr~.ctors, was audited and paid,
and a full and final receipt was given on June 1'7, 1890. The
relations between the contracting parties in reference to the
dock then terminated, and no question was raised between
them as to any extra claim or allowance until nearly three
years after the final settlement, that is, on April 11, 1893,
when the attorneys of the Simpson Dry Dock Company, as
assignees of the claim of J. E. Simpson & Co., addressed a letter to the Secretary of the Navy, claiming for extra services
rendered and material furnished in the construction of the dry
dock. This claim was based upon the theory that the site of
the dry dock was not "available, owing to the unfavorable
and unstable character of the soil," and hence that the Government was liable to the contractors in the sum of $174,322.
This demand not having been complied with, the present suit
was brought, the claim being for a much larger sum than that
stated in the letter of the attorneys, and being made on behalf of the members of the firm of J. E. Simpson & Co., as
owners thereof.

SIMPSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. James H. Hayden for appellants.
Cammon was on his brief.

Mr.Joseph

.7r. George Hines Gorman for appellees.
Attorney GeneraZ Pr'adt was on his brief.

. Mec-

31r. Assistant'

MR. JUSTICE WHrr, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

Considering the facts above stated, it is at once apparent
that the claim against the United States can only, be allowed
upon the theory that it is sustained by the written contract,
since if it be not thereby sanctioned it is devoid of legal foundation. The rule by which parties to a written contract are
bound by its terms, and which holds that they cannot be
heard to vary by parol its express and unambiguous stipulations, or impair the obligations which the contract engenders
by reference to the negotiations which preceded the making
of*the contract, or by urging that the pecuniary result which
the contract has produced has not come'up to the expectations of one or both of the parties, is too elementary to
require anything but statement. The principle was clearly
announced in Brawley v. United States, 96 U. S. 168, 173,
where itwas said:
"All this is irrelevant matter. The written contract merged
all previous negotiations, and is presumed, in law, to express
the final understanding of the parties. If the contract did.
not express the true agreement, it was the claimant's folly
to have signed it. The court cannot be governed by any
such outside considerations. Previous and contemporary
transactions and facts may be very properly taken into consideration to ascertain the subject-matter of a contract, and
the sense in which the parties may have used particular
terms, but not to alter or modify the plain language which
they have used."
Before measuring the claim by the contract, it is essential
to clearly define the exact predicate upon which the demand
necessarily rests. Reducing all the contentions of the claim-

3'.0,

8i820GTOMR ITERM, 1898:
Opinibn'6f the- CourtW

ant to "Ahteir.iltimate .ooecption,=they 'am'otnt' simply to the
proposition that the United States by-Ithe written contract
guaranteed the'nature of the soil under the site of the proposec d6ck,-and asshlined the:entire'burden which, might arise
in case it should be ascertaifed, during, the'progreSs of constructing, the dbck, that the soil under the selected site differed-lIthe-detriment, 6f -.the: contractors from that delineated
upon the profile plan which, had Aibeen made, by an otficer'of
the United States. Considering the contract itself, it is clear
that. there-is nothing ri-its' -terms whichi supports,- even, by
remot(e im'pliation, thd,_piefniiea upofh which., the ':claimants
must ,rest iheii- 'hope of recov~ry.'_ The'bontract imposed upon
the ,dntratbrs the 0bligation ,toconstruct- the.,dock according
to theispecifications within;a :clesighited, ime 'for an agreed
price- upon a .site- t6' be, selected&by the United States. We
lookin vainfoe 'anylstatement, or, agreement or even 'intimatiom,'that any warranty, express, or implied,i in, favor of the
co'ntactors Was entered into conberning -he'.,character of the
underlying soil. 'The only1worl which, it' is claimed supports,
the cotention that a warranty,-wds undertaken by: the United
States s.to _the condition, :of.,the 'oil is %th6statement, found
in' th6 opening, portionsl of the, spebifications, that 'the dock.
WasI: t6,)be 2buIlt;cin the'ha~y'yard-upon, a.'site which-was
"available," and great stress was laid in theargument at bar
ipqn ,thi-,word& rBdt the_'word:" FbvailableP,' intrinsically has
no-such mea'nhig 'hs that soughtto be,giveU't., ItVcertainly
ddfinot' be csaick thit the- site selected.fdr, tthe ,dock *as' not
aivkilable-forithe ptirpose, sinceone has been actually, erected
thereon', )Itris co nce~d in,,argumentL bhat.the' w-ord' 'Ia
'ailableM, has ;not iiaturally,ithehmdaning:whieh.musbi be ,atttib
uted t , t in',!orderi'to sipport thb contenti6n>that, there was*
awarranty as to the-conditiounci.f,-thesoiL ' But' it is said'the
w.rd should b'constfrued as having, such signification, because'
bidders Verreferrkdita, the'. bmmandants'. of' tthena.vy yards,
for information as to the sites of the docks',:and:'the p]anii
showing_, tlie.lesult ofthe 'xanliiati6n anade mpon z portion 'of
theryard was tubinittedta,. h6en. r In,otheriivords;; 'whi
ist admifting-th:rule -tliat'the con'trdct is-; t~he 'law of~the dase, and,

SIMPSON v., 1J1UITED -,STATES.
Opinion ,of the Gourt.

that the Tights and obligations of thq, parties are.to be 'alone
determined from its.conteqxtthe argument invokes a doparture
from that rule, and asks that the contract be so -conistrued as
to create a right in favor of one of, thefparties ia conflict with
the natural significance of the language of ,the :contract, ,because of antecedent negotiations which took place between the
parties.
Aside from the contradiction.which this.contention involves,
the meaning now claimed for the,word " ,available?' cannotbe
adopted without departing from-the intention of the parties as
manifested by the teijms of the contract, and.,the, documents
forming part, of it, and such meaning ,cannot -moreover! be
sanctioned without doing violence to the, context of the contract., The advertisement -for bids was-made in April,- 1887.
The, bid and specifications which: accompanied, it, were -drawn
by the firm, and were submitted in-June, 1887. The advertisement to which they were an answer called for -afull and -explicit statement of what :was proposed, to be- done by the
contractors and what were the requirements upon which they
expected to rely. The contractors were experienced and competent dock builders. If it had been their, intention to -only
undertake to build the dock for .the price stipulated, provided
a guarantee was afforded them by, the United States that the
soil upon which the dock -was to be constructed _wKas to, be; of a
particular nature conforming to a plan then existing, a purpose so important, so vital,-,, would, -necessarily ;have, found,
direct and positive expression 'inthe bid, andj specifications,
and would not have been left to be evp~led, by _a, forced and
latitudinarian construction of the word, "available' used only
in the nature of a recital in ,the specifications ,nxd;,not in ,the
contract. The fact that the, bidders ke
that%A, test of. the'
soil in the yard had been madce),and dre,)y thepo- ract pr~ovjding that,thedock should be, located on a site tobe flesignated,
by thejUnited States. without, -any, express stipulatin :that,
there was a warranty in-,their favor that- the' gro und,selected
should be ofT a defined character, precludps: the conception
that the terms of the contract imposed such obligation on
the Government in the absence of a full and clear expre.-

OCTOBER TEAM, 1898,
Opinion of the Court.

sion to that effect,. or at least an unavoidable implication.
This is made clearer by other portions of the contract and
specifications.
The seventh paragraph of the contract contained a stipulation that "the construction of the said dry dock and its accessories and appurtenances herein contraceed for shall conform
in all respects to and with the plans and specifications aforesaid." Noif, the recital- in the specifications as to an "available" site is only contained in the opening clause thereof, and
naturally suggests only that it relates solely to some place in
the yard which should be selected in the discretion of the
Government suitable for the erection of a dry dock. So also
in the specifications as to the materials to be furnished, which
follow the recital as to the location of the dock, there is not
contained a word implying that a particular piece of ground
in the navy yard, having soil of a specially stable character,
was to be the site on which the dock was to be placed. The
contrary; however, is clearly implied from the provisions as to
foundation and other piling which were to be used in supporting and enclosing the structure.. The foundation, brace and
cross-cap piles, it was stipulated, were to be "of such length
as may he required for the purpose, and well driven to a firm
bearing," while it was stipulated 'that the sheet piling should
be "driven close and to such depth as may be found necessary
to make good work;" and these provisions were followed by
a clause reciting that "should the character of the bottom be
found such as to warrant a modification of the pile system of
floor construction, a concrete bed of not less than six feet in
thickness may be substituted for the foundation piles."
Light is thrown upon the plain meaning of the contract by
the conduct of the parties in the execution of the work. It is
not pretended that, when the character of the subsoil was discovered, the slightest claim was preferred that this fact gave
rise to an extra allowance. The fact is that. the contractors
proceeded with the work, obtained delay-for its 'completion,
made their final settlements and received their last payment
without ever asserting that any of the rights which they now
claim were vested in ther.
Without deciding that such con-

HOIVE FOR INOtTRABLES v. NOBLE.
Statement of -the Case.

duct would be decisive if the claim was supported by the contract, it is nevertheless clear that it affords a just means of
adding forceful significance to the unambiguous letter of the
contract and the self-evident intention of the parties in entering into it.

Judgment affirmed..

HOME FOR INCURABLES v. NOBLE.
COLVILLE v. AMERICAN SECURITY AND
COMPANY.

TRUST

APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUM.BIA.
Nos. 57, 61.

Argued November 9,10, 1893. -Decded

January 8, 1899.

Mrs. Ruth died on the 16th of June, 1892, having on the first day of the
same month and year executed both a will and a'codicil. After revoking all previous wills and codicils and .directing the payment of debts
and funeral expenses, the will bequeathed all the real, personal or mixed
property to the American Security and Trust Company for the benefit
of a granddaughter, Sophia. Yuengling Huston, during her natural 11
le.
On the death of the granddaughter the will provided that the trust should
end, and that it should be the duty of the trustee to pay over to the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania the sum of five thousand dollars
for purposes stated, and 'to deliver all the ,, residue and remainder of the
estate of whatever kind" to the Home for Incurables, to which corporation such residue was bestowed for a stated object. The codicil was as
follows: I, Mary Eleanor Ruth, being of sound and disposing mind and
memory and understanding, do make and publish this codicil to my last
will and testament- I hereby revoke and annul the bequest therein made
by me to the Home for Incurables at Fordham, New York city, in the
State of New York, and I hereby give and bequeath the five thousand
dollars (heretofore in my will bequeathed to said Home for Incurables)
to my friend Emeline Colville, the widow of Samuel Colville, now living
in New York city, said bequest being on account of her kindness, to my
son and myself during his and my illness and my distress. Held, That
the effect of the codicil was to revoke the bequest of five thousand dollars, made by the will in favor of the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, and to substitute therefor the legatee named in the codicil.

MARY E. Ruth died on the 16th of June, 1892, hating on
the first day of the same month and year executed both a will

