622.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

The same principle is found in the following cases: Fertilizing Company v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 659; Butcher8' Union
Company v. Creecent City, 111 U. S. '746.; Royd v. Alabama,
94"U. S. 645; Dougla8 v. Kentuc7ky, 168 U. S. 488.

When the legislature of Tennessee therefore permitted the
company to do business within its State on appointing an
agent therein upon whom process might be served, and when
in pursuance of such provisions the company entered the State
and appointed the agent, no contract was thereby created which
would prevent the State from thereafter passing another statute
in regard to service of process, and making such statute applicable, to a company already.doing business in the State. In
other words, no contract was created by the fact that the
company availed itself of the permission to do business within
the State under the provisions of the act of 1875.
Upon the case as presented in this record, we are of opinion
that the service upon the person in question was a good service
in behalf of the corporation- The judgment of the Supreme
Court of Tennessee is therefore
Affirmed.
MR3. JUSTICE H&RIAI

did not'sit in and took no part in the

decision of this case.

HOENING.R.US

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 841.

Argued January11, 1899. -Decided

January 80,1899.

Under the provisions of paragraph 387 of the act of July 24, 1897, and section 7 of the act of June 10, 1890, as amended by section 82 of the act of
July 24, 1897, the merchandise in suit, being certain woven fabrics in the
piece composed of silk and cotton, was subject to an ad valorem duty or
to a duty based upon or regulated by the value thereof.
An additional duty of one per centum of the total appraised value of such
. merchandise for each one per centum that such appraised value exceeded

HOENINGHAUS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.
the value declared in the entry, as applied to the particular article In such
invoice so undervalued, accrued according to the provisions of section 7
of the act of June 10, 1890, as amended by the act of July 24, 1897.

ON September 15, 1897, Frederich Hoeninghaus and Henry
W. Curtiss imported, at the port of New York, certain woven
fabrics in the piece, composed of silk and cotton. Such fabrics
were provided for in paragraph 387, schedule d of the tariff
act of July 24, 1897, which contains an elaborate scheme of
specific duties for goods of this character, the rates varying
from 50 cents to $4.50 per pound, depending upon the weight
of the fabric, the percentage of silk contained in it, its color,
its mode of manufacture, etc.; and concludes with a provision
which reads as follows: "But in no case shall any of the
foregoing fabrics in this paragraph pay a less rate of duty
than 50 per centum ad valorem."
The appraiser returned th6 merchandise as manufactures of
silk and cotton in the gum- silk under 20 per cent; and the
collector assessed upon the merchandise a duty of 50 cents a
pound, under the paragraph above mentioned. On the last
item of the invoice the appraiser increased the valuation
made in the invoice to make market value, thus making the
appraised value exceed the value thereof declared in the entry.
Thereupon the collector levied -an additional duty of 1 per
centum of the total appraised value for each 1 per centum
that said appraised value exceeded the value declared on said
item in the entry, under the provisions of section 32 of the act
of July 24, 1897, which is in the following terms:
"That the owner, consignee or agent of any imported merchandise which has been actually purchased, may, at the time
when he shall make and verify his written entry of such merchandise, but not afterwards, make such addition to the entry
to the cost or value given in the invoice or pro fo n invoice
or statement in form of an invoice, which he shall produce
with his entry, as in his opinion may raise the same to the
actual market value or wholesale price of such merchandise at
the time of exportation to the United States in the principal
markets of the country from which the same has been imported; but no such addition shall be made upon entry to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

invoice value of any imported merchandise obtained otherwise
than by actual purchase; and the collector within whose district any merchandise may be imported or entered, whether
the same has been actually purchased or procured otherwise
than 'by purchase, shall cause.the actual market value or
wholesale price of such merchandise to be appraised; and if
the appraised value of any article of imported merchandise
subject to an ad valorem duty or to a duty based upon or regulated in any manner by the value thereof shall exceed the value
declared in the entry, there shall be levied, collected and paid,
in addition to the dutihs impbed by law on such merchandise,
an additional duty of one _per centum of the total appraised
value thereof for each one per centur that such appraised
value exceeds the value declared in the entry, but the additional
duties only apply to the particular article or articles in each
invoice that are so undervalued, and shall be limited to fifty
per centum of the appraised value of such article or articles.
Such additionalduties shall not. be construed to be penal and
shallnot be remitted, nor payment thereof in any way avoided,
except in cases arising from a manifest clerical error, nor shall
they be refunded in case of exportation of the merchandise, or
.onany other account, nor shall they be subject to the benefit
of drawback: Provided, that if the appraised value of any
merchandise shall exceed the value declared in the entry by
more than fifty per centum, except when arising from a manifest clerical error; such entry shall be held to be presumptively
fraudulent, and the collector of customs shall seize such merchandise and proceed as in case of forfeiture for violation of
the customs laws, and in any legal proceeding that may result
from such seizure, the undervaluation as shown by the appraisal shall be presumptive evidence of fraud, and the burden
of proof shall be on the claimant to rebut the same, and forfeiture shall be adjudged unless he shall rebut such presumption of fraudulent intent by sufficient evidence. The forfeiture
provided for in this section shall apply to the whole of the
merchandise or the value thereof in the case or package containing the particular article or articles in each invoice which
are undervalued: Provided, further, that all additional duties,

HOENII{GHAUS v. UNITED STATES.

1 625

Statement of the Case.

penalties or forfeitures, applicable to merchandise entered by
a duly certified invoice, shall. be alike applicable to merchandise entered by aproformainvoice or statement in the form
of an invoice, and no forfeiture or disability of any kind
incurred under the provisions of this section shall be remitted
or mitigated by the Secretary of the Treasury. The duty
shall not, however, be assessed in any case upon an amount
less than the invoice or entered value."
Thereupon the importers filed a protest, claiming that said
merchandise, having regard either to its invoice, eAtered or
appraised value, was not subject to an ad valorem duty or, to
a duty based upon or in any manner regulated by the value
thereof, but on the contrary was subject only to a specific
duty.
The board of general appraisers, under the provisions of section 14: of the act of June 10, 1890, affirmed the decision of
the collector, and held that such goods were properly subject
to the additional duty imposed under section 7 of the act of
June 10, 1890, as amended by section 32 of the tariff act of
July 24, 1897.
From this decision of the board of general appraisers the
importers appealed to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of -New York, and after, in pursuance of an order of said court, the board of general.appraisers
had made a return of the record and proceedings before them,
that court affirmed the decision of the board of general appraisers. From the judgment of the Circuit Court an appeal
was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit; and that court thereupon certified to this court the
following questions of law:
"First. Under the provisions of paragraph 387 of the act of
July 24, 1897, and section 7 of the act of June 10, 1890, as
amended by section 32 of the act of July 24, 1897, was the
merchandise in suit subject to an ad valorem duty, or to a duty
based upon or regulated in any -manner by the value thereof ?
"Second. Did the additional duty of one per-centum of the
total appraised value 6f said merchandise for each one per centurn that such appraised value exceeded the value declared in
VOL. CLXX=--40

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the entry, as applied to the particular article in said invoice
undervalued as aforesaid, accrue according to. the provisions
of section 7 of the act of June 10, 1890, as amended by section
32 of the act of July 24, 1897?"
Mr&. W. Wickham Amth for. Hoeninghaus.
Curie was on his brief.

.Mr. Charles

.Mr. Solieitor General for the United States.
MR. JusTicr SHMAs, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The tariff legislation in question recognizes three classes of
merchandise subject to duty. One is where the duties are
purely specific, another where the duties are wholly based on
valuation, and the third where the duties are "regulated in
any manner by the value thereof."
-All importations of merchandise must be accompanied with
an invoice, stating the cost or market value. The third section of the act of June 10, 1890, c. 407, 26 Stat. 131, provides
that all such invoices shall have endorsed thereon a declaration signed by the purchaser, manufacturer, owner. or agent,
setting forth that the-invoice is in all respects correct and
true, and was made at the place from which the merchandise
is to be exported to the United States; that it contains, if the
merchandise was obtained by purchase, a true and full statement of the time when, the place where, the person from
whom the same was purchased, and the actual cost thereof,
and, when obtained in any other manner than by purchase,
the actual market value or wholesale price thereof at the time
of exportation to the United States in the principal markets
,of the country from whence exported; that such market value
's the price at which the merchandise described in the invoice
is freely offered for sale to all purchasers in said markets, and
that it is the price which the manufacturer or owner making
the declaration would have received, and was willing to receive,
for such merchandise sold in the ordinary course of trade, in

HOENINGHAUS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the usual wholesale quantities; the actual quantity thereof;
and that no different invoice of the merchandise mentioned
has been or will be furnished to any one; that, if the merchandise was actually purchased, the declaration shall also
contain a statement that the currency in which such invoice
is made out is that which was actually paid for the merchandise by the purchaser.
The 7th section, as amended by section 32 of the act of
July 24, 1897, provides that the importer, at the time he
makes his entry, may make such addition to the cost or value
given in the invoice as in his opinion may raise the same to
the actual market value or wholesale price of such merchandise in the principal markets of the country from which importbd; but no such addition shall be made to the invoiced
value of any imported merchandise obtained otherwise than
by actual purchase.
These and other provisions contained in the acts of June,
1890, and July, 1897, compel us to perceive the importance
attached by Congress to the obligation put upon the importer
to furnish the appraisers and the collector with a true valuation of the imported merchandise; and also the care taken to
relieve the importer from a hasty or ill-considered valuation,
contained in the invoice, by giving him an opportunity to
raise such valuation by voluntarily making such addition
thereto as to bring the same to the actual market value, and
by providing for an appeal by the importer, if dissatisfied
with the appraisement, to the board of general appraisers,
and from the decision of the board to the courts.
The contention on behalf of the importers is, in effect, that
there are only two classes of merchandise to be consideredone where the duties are purely specific, and where it is
claimed no appraisement is required and none is made, and
the other where the merchandise is subject to an ad valorem
rate of duty; and that the merchandise in question in this
case belongs to the former class.
Without deciding whether, even in the case of an importation of merhandise subject only to a specific duty it is lawful
to dispense with an appraisement, our opinion is that, in find-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ing the duty properly assessable upon this merchandise, it
was obligatory on the government officials to inquire into its
value, and that therefore the duty was one regulated in some
manner by the value thereof. The fact that it turned out,
in the present case, that the goods did not pay a less rate of
duty than fifty per centum ad valorem, did not relieve the
appraiser from inquiring into and determining the value of
the goods. And if it was the duty of the appraiser, in order
to enable him to fix the duty, to inquire into the value of the
imported merchandise, he was entitled to the aid afforded
him in such an inquiry by the production of a true and correct invoice.
. We cannot accept the contention of the importers that,
-where articles of merchandise are entered and appraised; the
inquiry whether the appraised value exceeds the entered value
is immaterial, unless, as a result of such inquiry, such articles
have imposed upon them ad valorem duties.
The importers had no right to determine for themselves in
advance whether a specific duty 'or an ad valorem duty should
be levied. The duty was to be regulated by the value of the
goods. A duty at least equivalent to an ad valorem duty of
fifty per centum had to be levied, and td determine what duty
was leviable it was necessary for the collector and appraisers
to be truthfully advised of the value of the goods.
It is urged that, as specific duties were actually assessed in
the present case, it theref9re appears that the impprters were
not benefited by the undervaluation; that the revenue has not
and could not suffer anything by the undervaluation; and that
a mere difference of opinion between the importer and the
appraisers, as to the value of the goods, should not subjec the
former to an additional duty.
But what might seem to be the hardship of such a case cannot justify the -appraisers or the courts in dispensing with the
requirements of the statutes. The meaning and policy of the
tariff laws cannot be made to yield to the supposed hardship
of isolated cases. Nor is it apparent that the enforcement of
the statutory requirements can be justly termed a hardship to
importers who take the risk of an undervaluation. The bur-

HOENINGHAUS v. UINITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

then of furnishing a true and correct invoice, in suQh a case, is
no greater than that imposed on other importers Where goods
are confessedly within the category of. goods subject to an ad
valorem assessment.
The administration of such laws cannot be narrowed to a
consideration of every case as if it stood alone, and as if the
only question was whether there was an actual intention to
defraud the government. Wide and long experience has resulted in the command that all importations of merchandise
must be accompanied with a true and correct invoice, stating
the cost or market value. Like other importers, the present
appellants must comply with this command, and if they have
failed to do so, they must be held to be subject to the additional duty imposed by the statute. If the statutory regulations are found to be too stringent, the remedy cannot be found
either in the courts whose duty is to construe them, or in the
executive officers appointed to carry them into effect, but in
Congress.
We have been referred to no decision of this court directly
applicable to the case in hand, but Pings v. United States, 38
U. S. App. 250, is cited. That was a case arising under the
tariff act of October 1, 1890, c. 1244, 26 Stat. 567, where gloves
were imported into the port of New York and were dutiable
at $1.75 per dozen, unless their value exceeded $3.50 per dozen,
in which case they would be dutiable at fifty per centum ad
valorem. The appraiser advanced their value in excess of ten
per centum of the value declared in the entry, and the propriety of this advance was not questioned. The appraised
value, however, was not in excess of $3.50 per dozen. The
collector held the merchandise liable to the additional duty
prescribed by section 7 of the Customs Administration Act of
June 10, 1890. The importer's contention, that the additional
duty should not be exacted because gloves of the kind imported pay a specific duty, and because the advance, although
in excess of the ten per centum, was not sufficient to require
him to pay the ad valorem duty exacted by the last proviso
of paragraph 458 of the tariff act of October 1, 1890, was sustained by the board of general appraisers. But the Circuit

630

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

Court held otherwise, and on appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the decision of the Circuit Court. The Court of Appeals, reviewing the provisions
of the act of June 10, 1890, held that where the value of the
goods determines the question whether they are to pay specific
or ad valorem duty, appraisement is essential, and that it is to
be expected that the statute should require the importer himself to state the value of his goods faithfully and truthfully,
and to enforce that requirement by appropriate penalties.
The court said: "We see no reason for restricting the broad
language of the statute, and concur with the Judge who heard
the case in the Circuit Court, that the statutes require that all
imports be entered at fair value, and that the provision for
in6reasing duties for undervaluations of*more than ten per
centum makes no distinction between specific and ad valorem
duties, or between undervaluations that may affect the amount
of regular duties and those that will not."
This case was under another statute, in somewhat different
terms, but the reasoning upon which that decision went is that
which we have pursued in the present case, and meets with our
approval.
Our conclusion is that the questions certified to us by the
Judges of the Circuit Court of A.pea18 should be answered
in the aifirmative, and it is so ordered.
MR. JUsTICE PECKHAm dissented.

MARSHALL v. BURTIS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
I
ARIZONA.
No. 118.

Submitted January 10, 1899. -Decided

January 80, 1899.

As there was no finding of facts by the courts below, and no statement of
facts in the nature of a special verdict, this court must assume that the
judgment of the court below was justified by the evidence, and affirm
the judgment of the Supreme Court.

