OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

a national bank an absolute right to retain bonds coming into
its possession by purchase under a contract which it was without legal authority to make, and that although the bank was
not bound to surrender possession of them until reimbursed to
the full amount due to it, and might hold them as security
for the return of the consideration paid, yet that when such
amount was returned, or tendered back to it, and the return
of the bonds demanded, its authority to retain them no longer
existed; and, from the time of such demand and its refusal to
surrender the bonds to the vendor br owner, it became liable
for their value on grounds of implied contract, apart from the
original agreement under which it obtained them.
Here, the bank was found to have itself purchased notes,
which the owner had authorized it to sell to a third party, and,
on-general principles of law, it was held liable for their value
as for a conversion, even though it was not within its powers
to sell them as the owner's agent.
We are of opinion that the Supreme Court of :North Dakota
committed no error in the disposition of any Federal question,
and its judgment-is

.Airmned.

UNITED STATES v. DUELL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
INo. 444. Argued December 1, 2, 1898.-Decided January 23, 1899.
An appeal to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia from the
decision of the Commissioner of Patents in an interference controversy
presents all the features of a civil case, a plaintiff, a defendant and a
judge, and deals with a question judicial in its nature, in respect of which
the judgment of the court is final, so far as the particular action of the
Patent Office is concerned; and such judgment is none the less a judgment because its effect may be to aid an administrative or executive body
in the performance of duties legally imposed upon it by Congress in execution of a power granted by the Constitution.
In, deciding whether a patent shall issue or not, the Commissioner of Patents
acts on evidence, finds the facts, applies the law and decides questions

UNITED STATES v. DUELL.
Statement of the Case.
affecting not only public, but private interests; and likewise as to reissues, or extension, or on interference between contesting claimants; in
all of which he exercises judicial functions.
.Butterworthv. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50, held to be directly in point, and the language on page 59 held to be also in point in which the court, speaking
of that clause in Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution, which confers
upon Congress the power "1to promote the progress of science and useful arts, by securing for limited times to authors and -inventors, the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries," says: "The
legislation based on this provision regards the right of property in the
Inventor as the medium of the public advantage derived from his invention; so that in every grant of the limited monopoly two interests are
involved- that of the public, who are the grantors, and that of the
patentee. There are thus two partieg to every application for a patent,
and more when, as in case of interfering claims or patents, other private
interests compete for preference. The questions of fact arising in this
field find their answers in every department of physical science, in every
branch of mechanical art; the questions of law necessary to be applied
In the settlement of this class of public and private rights have founded
a special branch of technical jurisprudence. The investigation of every
claim presented involves the adjudication of disputed questions of fact
upon scientific or legal principles, and is, therefore, essentially judicial
In its character, and requires the intelligent judgment of a trained body
of skilled officials, expert in the various branches of science and art,
learned in the history of invention and proceeding by fixed rules to
systematic conclusions."

IN an interference proceeding in the Patent Office between
Bernardin and Korthall, the Commissioner, Seymour, decided
in favor of Bernardin, whereupon Northall prosecuted an
appeal to the Court of Appeals of'the District of Columbia.
That court awarded Korthall priority and reversed the Commissioner's decision. -7 App. D. 0. 452. Bernardin, notwithstanding, applied to the Commissioner to issue the patent to
him and tendered the final fee, but the Commissioner refused
to do this in view of the decision of the Court of Appeals,
which had been duly certified to him. Bernardin then applied to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia for
a mandamus to compel the Commissioner to issue the patent
in accordance with his prior decision on the ground that the
statute providing for an appeal was unconstitutional and the
judgment of the Court of Appeals void for want of jurisdiction. The application was denied, and Bernardin appealed to
voL. cLxxu-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

the Court of Appeals, which affirmed the judgment. 10 App.
D. C. 294,
Seymour resigned as Commissioner and was succeeded by
Butterworth, and Bernardin recommenced his proceeding,
which again went to judgment in the Supreme Court, and
the Court of Appeals. 11 App. D. C. 91. The case was
brought to this-court, but abated in consequence of the death
of Butterworth. United States v. -Buterworth,169 U. S. 600.
Bernardin thereupon brought his action against Duell, Butterworth's successor, and judgmient against him was again rendered in the District Supreme Court, that judgment affirmed
by the Court of Appeals, and'the cause brought here on writ
of error.
The following sections of the Revised Statutes were referred
to on the argument:
" SEc. 4906. The clerk of any court of the United States,
for any District or Territory wherein testimony is to be taken
for use in any contested case pending in the Patent Office,
shall, upon the application of any party thereto, or of his
agent or attorney, issue a subpoena for any witness residing
or being within such District or Territory, commanding him
to appear and testify before any officer in such District or
Territory authorized to take depositions and affidavits, at any
time and place in the subpoena stated. But no witness shall
be required to attend at any place more than forty miles from
the place where the subpcena is served upon him.
"S c. 4907. Every witness duly subpcenaed and in attendance shall be allowed the same fees as are allowed to'witnesses
attending the courts of the United States.
"So. 4908. Whenever any witness, after being duly served
with such subpoena, neglects or refuses to appear, or after
appearing refuses to testify, the judge of the court whose
clerk issued the subpcena may, on proof of such neglect or
refusal, enforce obedience to the process or punish the disobedience, as in other like cases. But no witness shall be
deemed guilty of contempt for disobeying such subpcena,
unless his fees and travelling expenses in going to, returning
from and one day's attendance at the place of examination,

UNITED STATES v. DUELL.
Statement of the Case.

are paid or tendered him at the time of the service of the
subpoena; nor for refusing to disclose any secret invention
or discovery made or owned by himself.
"SEc. 4909. Every applicant for a patent or for the reissue
of a patent, any of the claims of which have been twice rejected, and every party to an interference, may appeal from
the decision of the primary examiner, or of the examiner in
charge of interferences in such case, to the board of examiners
in chief ; having once paid the fee for such appeal..
"SEc. 4910. If such party is dissatisfied with the decision
of the examiners in chief, he may, on payment of the fee prescribed, appeal to the Commissioner in person.
"SEc. 4911. If such party, except a party to an interference,
is dissatisfied with the decision of the Commissioner, he may
appeal to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, sitting in bane.
"SEC. 4912. When an appeal is taken to the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, the appellant shall give notice
thereof to the Commissioner, and file in the Patent Office,
within such time as the Commissioner shall appoint, his reasons
of appeal, specifically set forth in writing.
'"SEc. 4913. The court shall, before hearing such appeal,
give notice to the Commissioner of the time and place of the
hearing, and on receiving such notice the Commissioner shall
give notice of such time and place in such mann er as the court
may prescribe, to all parties who appear to be interested therein.
The party appealing shall lay before the court certified copies
of all the original papers and evidence in the case, and the
Commissioner shall furnish the court with the grounds of his
decision, fully set forth in writing, touching all the points involved by the reasons of appeal. And at the request of any
party interested, or of the court, the Commissioner and the
examiners may be examined under oath, in explanation of the
principles of the thing for which a patent is demanded.
"SEC. 4914. The court, on petition, shall hear and determine such appeal, and revise the decision appealed from in a
summary way, on the evidence produced before the Commissioner, at such early and convenient time as the court may

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

appoint; and the revision shall be confined to the points set
forth in the reasons of appeal. After hearing the case the
court shall return to the Commissioner a certificate of its proceedings and decision, which shall be entered of record in the
Patent Office, and shall govern the further proceedings in the
case. But no opinion or decision of the court in any such case
shall preclude any person interested from the right to contest.
the validity of such. patent in any court. wherein the same
may be called in question.
"SE . 4915. Whenever a patent on application. is refused,
either by the Commissioner of Patents or by the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia upon appeal from the Commissioner, the applicant may have remedy by bill in equity;
court
having cognizance thereof, on notice to adverse
and
theand
parties
other
due proceedings had, may adjudge that such
applicant is entitled, according to law, to receive a patent for
his invention, as specified in his claim, or for any part thereof,
as the facts in the case may appear. And such adjudication,
if it be in favor of the right of the applicant, shall authorize the
Commissioner to issue such patent on the applicant filing in
the Patent Office a copy of the adjudication, and otherwise
complying with the requirements of law. In all cases, where
there is no opposing party, a.copy of the bill shall be served
on the Commissioner; and all the expenses of the proceeding
shall be paid by the applicant, whether the final decision is
in his favor or not."
Section '80 of the Revised Statutes of the District of Columbia reads thus:
"S Ec. 780. The Supreme Court, sitting in bane, shall have
jurisdiction of and shall hear and determine all appeals from
the decisions of the Commissioner of Patents, in accordance
with.the provisions of sections forty-nine hundred and eleven
to section forty-nine hundred and fifteen, inclusive, of chapter
one, Title LX, of the Revised Statutes, ' Patents, Trade-marks,
and Copyrights."'
Section nine of the "act to establish a Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia, and for other purposes," approved
February 9, 1893, c. 74, 27 Stat. 434, 436, is -

UNITED STATES v. DUELL.
Opinion of the Court.

"SEc. 9. That the determination of appeals from the decision of the Commissioner of Patents, now vested in the general
term of the Supreme Court of the -District of Columbia, in
pursuance of the provisions of section seven hundred and
eighty of the Revised Statutes of the United States, relating
to the District of Columbia, shall hereafter be and the same
is hereby vested in the Court of Appeals created by this act;
and in addition, any party aggrieved by a decision of the
Commissioner of Patents in any interference case may appeal
therefrom to said Court of Appeals."

JI1>. Julian C. -Dowell and Mr. George C. Hazelton for
plaintiffs in error.
.Mr. Solicitor General for defendant in error. Mr. Jeremiah -2. Wilson, on behalf of Northall's assignee, filed a brief
for sa'me.
MR. CirmF

JusTic

FULLEr, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia adjudged
that Northall was entitled to the patent. By section 8 of the
act establishing that court, 27 Stat. 431, c. 74, it is provided
that any final judgment or decree thereof may be revised by
this court on appeal or error in cases wherein the validity of a
statute of the United States is drawn in question. The validity of the trct of Congress allowing an appeal to the Court
of Appeals in interference cases was necessarily determined
when that court went to judgment, yet no attempt was made
to bring the case directly to this court, but the relator applied
to the District Supreme Court to compel the Commissioner to
issue the patent in disregard of the judgment of the Court of
Appeals to the contrary, aid, the application having been
denied, the Court of Appeals Was called on to readjudicate
the question of its own jurisdiction.
The ground of this unusual proceeding, by which the lower
court was requested to compel action to be taken in defiance

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of the court above, and the latter court was called on to
rejudge its own judgment, was that the decree of the Court
of Appeals was utterly void because of the uiconstitutionality
of the statute by which it was empowered to exercise jurisdiction.
Nothing is better settled than that the writ of mandamus
will not ordinarily be granted if there is another legal remedy,
nor unless the duty sought to be enforced is clear and indisputable; and we think that, under the circumstances, the remedy by appeal existed; and that it is not to be conceded that
it was the duty of the Commissioner to disobey the decree
because in his judgment, the statute authorizing it was unconstitutional, or that it would have been consistent witi the
orderly and decorous administration of justice for the District
Supreme Court to hold that the Court of Appeals was absolutely destitute of the' jurisdiction which it had determined it
possessed. Even if we were of opinion that the act of Congress was not in harmony with the Constitution, every presumption was in favor of its validity, and we cannot assent to
the proposition that it would have been competent for the
Commissioner to treat the original decree as absolutely void,
and without force and effect as to all persons and for all
purposes.
But as, in our opinion, the Court of Appeals had jurisdiction, we prefer to affirm the judgment on that ground.
The contention is that Congress had no power to authorize
the Court of Appeals to review' the action of the Commissioner in an interference case, on the theory that the Cominissioner is an executive officer; that his action in determining
which of two claimants is entitled to a patent is purely executive; and that, therefore, such action cannot be subjected to
the revision of a judicial tribunal.
Doubtless, as was said in .furray v. Hoboken Land & Im.provement Co., 18 How. 272, 281, Congress cannot bring
under the judicial power a matter which, from its nature,
is not a subject for judicial determiiation, but at the same
time, as Mr.' Justice Curtis, delivering the opinion of the
court, further observed, "there are matters involving public

UNITED STATES v. DUELL.
Opinion of the Court.

rights, which may be presented in such form that the judicial
power is capable of acting on them, and which are Susceptible
of judicial determination, but which Congress my or may
not bring within the cognizance of the courts of the United
States, as it may deem proper." The instances in which this
has been done are numerous, and many of them are referred to
in Fong Fue Ting v. UnitedStates,149 U. S. 698, 714,715, 728.
Since, underthe Constitution, Congress has power "to promote the progress of science and useful arts, by securing for
limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to
their respective writings and discoveries," and to make all
laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying that
expressed power into execution, it follows that Congress may
provide such instrumentalities in respect of securing to inventors the exclusive right to their discoveries as in its judgment
-will be best calculated to effect that object.
And by reference to the legislation on the subject, a-comprehensive sketch of which was given by Mr. Justice Matthews
in .Butterworthv. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50, it will be seen that from
1790 Congress has selected such instrumentalities, varying
them from time to time, and, since 1870, has asserted the
power to avail itself of the courts of the District of Columbia
in that connection.
The act of April 10, 1790, c. 7, 1 Stat. 109, authorized the
issue of patents by the Secretary of State, the Secretary for
the Department of War, and the Attorney General, or any
two of them, "if they shall deem the invention or discovery
sufficiently useful and important," and this was followed by
the act of February 21, 1793, c. 11, 1 Stat. 318, authorizing
them to be issued by the Secretary of State, upon the 'certificate of the Attorney General that they were conformable to
the act. The ninth section of the statute provided for the
case of interfering applications, which were to be submitted
to the decision of three arbitrators, chosen one by each of the
parties and the third appointed by the Secretary of State,
whose decision or award, or that of two of them, should be
final as respected the granting of the patent.
Then came the act of July 4, 1836, c: 357, 5 Stat. 117, cre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ating" in the Department of State the Patent Office, "the
chief officer of which shall be called the Commissioner of
Patents," and "whose duty it shall be, under the direction of
the Secretary of State, to superintend, execute and perform,
all such acts and things touching and respecting the granting
and issuing of patents for new and useful discoveries, inventions and improvements, as are herein provided for, or shall
hereafter be, by law, directed to be done and performed."
By that act it was declared to be the duty of the
Commissioner to issue a patent if he "shall deem it to be suf•ficiently useful and important;" and, in case of his refusal,
the applicant was (see. 7) secured an appeal from his decision
to a board of examiners, to be composed of three disinterested
persons, appointed for that purpose by the Secretary of State,
one of whom, at least, to be selected, if practicable and convenient, for his knowledge and skill in the particular art,
manufacture or branch of science to which the alleged invention appertained. The decision of this board being certified
to the Commissioner, it was declared that "he shall be governed thereby in the further proceedings to be had on such
application." A like proceeding, by way of appeal, was provided in cases of irnterference. By section 16 of the act a
remedy by bil in equity, still existing in sections 4915, 4918,
Revised Statutes, was given as between interfering patents
or whenever an application had been refused on an adverse
decision of a board of examiners. By section 11 of the act
of MN[arch 3, 1839, c. 88, 5 Stat. 353, 354, as modified by the
act of August 30, 1852, c. 107, 10 Stat. 75, it was provided
that in all cases where an appeal was thus allowed by law
from the decision of the Commissioner of Patents to a, board
of examiners, the party, instead thereof, should have a right
to appeal to the chief judge or to either of the assistant
judges of the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia;
and by section 10 the provisions of section 16 of the act of
1836 were extended to all cases where patents were refused
for any reason whatever, either by the Commissioner or by
the chief justice'of the District of Columbia upon appeals
from the decision 'of the Conimissioner, as well as where the

UNITED STATES v. DUELL.
Opinion of the Court.

same shall have been refused on account of or by reason of
interference with a previously existing patent.
By the act of March 3, 1849, c. 108, 9 Stat. 395, the Patent
Office was transferred to the Department of the Interior.
The act of March 2, 1861, c,88, 12 Stat. 246, created the
office .of examiners in chief, "for the purpose, of securing
greater uniformity of action in the grant and refusal of letters patent," "to be composed of persons of competent legal
knowledge and scientific ability, whose duty it shall be, on
the written petition of the applicant for that purpose being
filed; to revise and determine upon the validity of decisions
made by examiners when adverse to the grant of letters patent; and also to revise and determine in like manner upon
the validity of the decisions of examiners in interference cases,
and when required by the Commissioner in applications for.
the extension of patents, and to perform such other duties as
may be assigned to them by the Commissioner; that from
their decisions appeals may be taken to the Commissioner of
Patents in person, upon payment of the fee hereinafter prescribed; that the said examiners in chief shall be governed in
their action by the rules to be prescribed by the Commissioner
of Patents."
The act of July 8, 1870, c. 230, 16 Stat. 198, revised, consolidated and amended the statutes then in force on the subject,
and by section 48, an appeal to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia sitting in banc was provided for, whose decision was to govern the further proceedings in the case (sec.
50); and the provisions of the act material to the present inquiry were carried in substance into the existing revision.
By the act of February 9, 1893, c. 74, 27 'Stat. 434, the determination of appeals from the Commissioner of Patents,
which was formerly vested in the General Term of the Supreme Court of the District, was vested in the Court of
Appeals, and, in addition, it was provided that "any party
aggrieved by a decision of the Commissioner of Patents in any
interference case may appeal therefrom to said Court of Appeals."
As one of the instrumentalities designated by Congress in

586

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

execution of the power granted, the office of Commissioner of
Patents was created, and though he is an executive officer,
generally speaking, .natters in the disposal of which he exercises functions judicial in their nature may properly be brought
within the cognizance f the courts.
Now, in deciding whether a patent shall issue or not, the
Commissioner acts on evidence, finds the facts, applies the law
and decides questions affecting not only public but private interests; and so as to reissue, or extension or on interference
.between contesting claimants; and in all this he exercises
judicial functions.
In Btterworth v. Hoe, 8ipra,Mr. Justice Matthews, referring to the constitutional provision, well said:
"The legislation based on this provision regards the right
of property in the inventor as the medium of the public advantage derived from his invention; so that in every grant of
the limited monopoly two interests are involved, that of the
public, who are the grantors, and that of the patentee. There
are thus two parties to every application for a patent, and
more, when, as in case of interfering claims or patents, other
private interests compete for preferenice. The questions of
fact arising in this field find their answers in every department
of physical science, in every branch of mechanical art; the
questions of law, necessary to be applied in the settlement of
this class of public and private rights, have founded a special
branch of technical jurisprudence. The investigation of every
claim presented invlves'the adjudication of disputed questions
of fact, upon scientific or legal principles, and'is, therefore,
essentially judicial in its character, and requires the intelligent
judgment of a trained body of skilled officials, expert in the
various branches of science and art, learned in the history of
invention, and proceeding by fiXed rules to systematic conclues
sions.
That case is directly in point and the ratio deoidencdi strictly
applicable to that before us. The case was a suit in mandamus. brought by the claimant of a patent in whose favor the
Commissioner had found in an interference case, to compel the
Commissioner to issue the patent to him. The Commissioner

UINITED STATES v. D UELL.
Opinion of. the Court.

had refused to do this on the ground that the'defeated party
had appealed to the Secretary of the Interior, who had reversed the Commissioners action, and found in appellant's
favor. This court held that. while the Commissioner of Patents was an executive officer and subject in administrative or
executive matters -to the supervision of the head of the department, yet that his action in deciding patent cases was essentially judicial -in its nature and not subject to review by the
executive head, an appeal to the courts having been provided
for. And among other things it was further said:
"It is evident tha the appeal thus -given to the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia from the decision of the
Commissioner, is not the exercise of ordinary jurisdiction at
law or in equity on the part of that court, but is one in the
statutory proceeding under the patent laws whereby that tribunal is interposed in aid of the Patent Office, though not.
subject to it. Its adjudication, though not binding upon any
who choose by litigation in courts of general jurisdiction to
questipn the validity of any patent thus awarded, is, nevertheless, conclusive upon the Patent Office itself, for, as the statute declares, Rev. Stat. § 4914, it 'shall govern the further
proceedings in the case.' The Commissioner cannot question
it. He is bound to record and obey it. His failure or refusal
to execute it by appropriat6 action would undoubtedly be corrected and supplied by suitable judicial process. The decree
of the court is the final adjudication upon the question of right;
everything after that dependent upon it is merely in execution
of it; it is no longer matter of discretion, but has become imperative and enforceable. It binds the whole Department, the
Secretary as well as the Commiissioner, for it has settled the
question of title, so that a demand for the signatures necessary
to authenticate the formal instrument and evidence of grant
may be enforced. It binds the Secretary by acting directly
upon the Commissioner, for it makes the action of tho latter
final by requiring it to conform to the decree.
"Congress has thus provided four tribunals for hearing ap-.
plications for patents, with three successive appeals, in which
the Secretary of the Interior. is not included, giving jurisdiction

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

in appeals from the Commissioner to a judicial body, independent,of the Department, as though he were the highest authority on the subject within it. And to'say that under the name
of direction and superintendence, the Secretary may annul the
decision of the Supreme Court of the District, sitting on appeal from the Commissioner, by directing the latter to disregard it, is to construe a statute so as to make one part repeal
another, when it is evident both were intended- to coexist without conflict."
"fo reason can be assigned for allowing an appeal from
the Commissioner to the Secretary in cases in which he is by
law required to exercise his judgment on disputed questions
of law and fact, and in which no appeal is allowed to the
courts that would not equally extend it to those in which
such -appeals are provided, for all are equally. embraced in
the general authority.of direction -and superintendence. That
includes'all or does not extend to any. The true conclusion,
therefore, is, that in matters of this description, in which the
action of the Commissioner is quasi-judicial, the fact that no
appeal is expressly given to the Secretary is conclusive that
none is to be implied."
We perceive no ground for overruling that case or dissenting from the reasoning of the opinion; and as the proceeding
in the Court of Appeals on an appeal in an interference controversy- presents all the features of a civil case, a plaintiff, a
defendant and a judge, and deals with a question judicial in its
.nature, in respect of which the judgment of the court is final
so far as *the particular action of the Patent Office is concerned, such judgment is none the less a judgment "because
its effect may be to aid an administrative or executive body
in the performance 'of duties legally imposed upon it by Congress in execution of a power granted by the Constitution."
Interstate Commerce Comnision' v. Brimeon, 154 U. S. 447.

It will have been seen that in the gradual development of
the policy of Congress in dealing with the subject of patents,
the recognition of the judicial character of the questions involved became more-and more pronounced.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY

.

YERS.

589

Syllabus.

By the acts of 1839 and 1852 an appeal was given, not to
the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, but to the
chief judge or one of the assistant judges thereof, who was
thus called on to act as a special judicial tribunal. The competency of Congress to make use of such an instrumentality
or to create such a tribunal in the attainment of the ends of
the Patent Office seems never to have been questioned, and
we think could not have been successfully. The nature of
the thing to be done being judicial, Congress had power to
provide for judicial interference through a special tribunal,
United Statem v. Coe, 155 U. S. 16; and afortiori existing
courts of competent jurisdiction might be availed of.
We agree that it is of vital importance that the line of demarcation between the three great departments of government should be observed, and that each should be limited to
the exercise of its appropriate powers, but in the matter of
this appeal we find no such encroachment of one department
on the domain of another as to justify us in holding the act
in question unconstitutional.

Judgment a firmed.

NORTHERN

PACIFIC RAILWAY
MYERS.

COMPANY

v.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 214. Argued October 21, 1898. -Decided

January 28, 1899.

This bill was filed to enjoin the enforcement of a tax, imposed under the
laws of Montana, upon lands granted by Congress by the act of July 2,
1864, c. 217, to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, and acquired by
the appellant on the reorganization of the company. There was a controversy as to the character of the lands taxed-whether mineral or
non-mineral. The lands have neVer been patented or certified to the
company; the company claimed that-'it.had only a potential interest
therein; and the relief sought was that the lands be adjudged not subject to such assessment and taxation until the issue of patents therefor
by the United States. It was stipulated in the court below that the sole

