OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

the rule. Whether the money to satisfy this liability was paid
in by some third party or already held .by the. Treasurer;
wJhether there was or was not any prior liability on the part
of the Government, in each case there was a declaration by
Congress that the money thus received or covered into the
Treasury should there be held for the benefit of and subject to
the call of the owner, and no time was specified within which
such call must be made. This was a distinct and separate
promise, creating a new liability, and the claim accrued when
this new liability matured. It matured when the claimant presented her cheques and, calling for warrants, was refused them.
The judgment is

GREEN BAY & MISSISSIPPI CANAL COMPANY
v. PATTEN PAPER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
I

No. 14. Argued January 18, 14, 1898.-

Decided November 28,1898.

No particular form of words or phrases in which a claim of Federal rights
must be asserted in a state court has ever been declared necessary by
this court; but it is sufficient, if it appears from the record that such
rights were specially set up or claimed there in such way as to bring the
subject to the attention of the state court.
Under the legislation and contracts set forth in the opinion of the court in
this case, the Water power incidentally created by the erection and maintenance of the dam and canal for the purpose of navigation in Fox River
is subject to control and appropriation by the United States, and the
plaintiff in error is possessed of whatever rights to the use of this incidental water power could be granted by the United States.
At what points in the dams and canal the water for power may be withdrawn, and the quantity which can be treated as surplus with due regard
to navigation, must be determined by the authority which owns and
controls that navigation.

Tmis was a suit brought, in 1886, in the circuit court of Outagamie County, Wisconsin, by the Patten Paper Company
and others, against the Kaukauna Water Company, the Green
Bay and Mississippi Canal Company and others. The object

GREEN BAY '&c. CANAL CO. v. PATTEN PAPER CO. 59
Statement of the Case.

of the proceeding, as set forth in the complaint, was to have
determined what share or proportion of the flow of Fox River
where the same passes Islands Nos. 3 and 4 in township No. 21,
north of range No. 18 east, is appurtenant and of right should
be permitted to flow in the south, middle and north channels
of said river respectively, and to have the defendants restrained
from drawing from said Fox River above the head of Island
No. 4, and so that there shall not come into the middle
channel of said river and into the mill pond of the. plaintiffs
more water flow of said river than the one-sixth part thereof,
or more than the amount which by nature was appurtenant
to and flowed in the south channel of said river.
The scope of the investigation was widened by 'reason of
the answer of the Green Bay and Mississippi Canal Company,
which it was agreed and stipulated should have the effect of
a cross-bill in the action, and which asserted that any decree
to be entered in the suit determining or adjudicating what
share or proportion of the flow of the river should be permitted to flow in its several channels, should be made subject
to the right of the Canal Company, by reason of the facts
stated, to use all of the water power created by the government dam and improvements on the river.
The principal facts disclosed in the case were the, following:
The Fox River is a navigable stream, .and flows through
township 21, north of range 18 east, in the county of Outagamie, Wisconsin, and in, said river, below take Winnebago,
there are and always have been rapids and -abrupt falls. To
permit navigation through or by said rapids and falls necessarily requires the building of dams, locks and canals at great
expense. By an act approved August 8, 1846, 9 Stat. 83,
c. 170, Congress granted to the State of Wisconsin, on its
admission into the Union, a large amount of public lands for
the express puripose of, and in trust for, improving the navigation of the Fox and Wisconsin Rivers. The State accepted
said grant of land for said purposes, and by an act of its legislature, approved August 8, 1848, undertook the improvement
of said rivers, anid enacted, among other things, that "whenever a water power Mkallbe created by reason of any dam erected

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

or other improvements made on any of said rivers, such water
.powershall belong to the State, subject to the future action of
the legislature."
One of the rapids in Fox River, around which it was necessary to secure slack water navigation by means of dams, locks
and canals, was commonly known as the Kaukauna Rapids.
The State adopted a plan and system for the construction of
a dam and canal at said Kaukauna Rapids, whereby there was
to be built a low dam beginning on the south side near the
head of the rapids, extending down stream, on or near the
south bank of the river, across lots 8, 7, 6, and on to lot 5
of section 22, and thence extending at about a right angle
with the south bank across the river, leaving an opening at
the north end through which the water of the river could pass,
and be conducted by a conduit or canal-to a certain point at
which should be placed.a look.
The sales of lands granted by Congress not proving sufficient to carry on the work, the board of public works was
authorized by the legislature to issue certificates of indebtedness, which were declared to be a charge upon the proceeds of
the lands granted by Congress and upon the revenues to be
derived from the works of improvement.
In July, 1853, the state legislature created a corporation
under the name of "The Fox and Wisconsin Improvement
Company," to which, by the second section thereof, were
granted and transferred the uncompleted works of improvement, together with all and singular the rights of way, dams,
locks, canals, water power and other appurtenances of said
works. The company agreed to pay the outstanding certificates, and forthwith undertook the work. Additional lands
were granted by Congress in 1854: and -1855, to aid the State
in the improvement of the Fox and Wisconsin Rivers. The
company subsequently executed a deed of conveyance of the
works of improvement, the incidental water powers and all
of the lands, in trust to apply all revenues derived from the
improvement and the proceeds of sales of the lands to the
payment of the unpaid certificates and of bonds issued by
the company, and to the completion of. the works.

GREEN BAY &c. CANAL CO. v. PATTEN PAPER CO.

61

Statement of the Case.
In 1864: the company failed, the deed of trust was foreclosed, and, in 1866, the property of the company, consisting
of the works of improvement, the water powers and the lands,
were sold pursuant to a decree of court entered February 4,
1864. The purchasers became incorporated under the name of
the Green Bay and Mississippi Canal Company, and that company was authorized, by the third section of an act of the legislature approved April i2, 1866, to "enlarge and increase the
capacity of said works and of the said rivers so as to make a
uniform steamship navigation from the Mississippi River to
Green Bay, or to surrender the same to the United States
for such enlargement, on such terms as may be approved by
the Governor for the time being of the State."
July 7, 1870, Congress passed an act entitled "An act for
the improvement of water communication between the Mississippi River and Lake Michigan by the Wisconsin and Fox
Rivers." .16 Stat. 189, c. 210. By this act Congress authorized the Secretary of War to ascertain the sum "which
in justice ought to be paid to the Green Bay and Mississippi
Canal Company as an equivalent for the transfer of all and
singular its property and rights of property in and to the line
of water communication between the Wisconsin River and the
mouth of Fox River, including its locks, dams, canals and
franchises, or so much of the same as shall, in the judgment
of said Secretary, be needed," and to that end he was authorized to "join with said company in appointing a board of disinterested and impartial arbitrators" - one to be selected by
the Secretary, one by the company, and the third by the two
arbitrators so seleoted. The act provided that in making their
award the arbitrators should take into consideration the amount
of money realized from the sale of lands granted by Congress
to aid in the construction of said water communication, which
amount should be deducted from the actual value thereof as
found by the arbitrators. It was further enacted'that no
money should be expended on the improvement of the Fox
and Wisconsin Rivers until the Green Bay and Mississippi
Canal Company should make and file with the Secretary of
War an agreement, in writing, whereby it shall.agree to grant

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

and convey to the United States its property and franchises
upon the terms awarded by the arbitrators.
By an act, approved March 23, 1871, by the legislature of
Wisconsin, the directors of the Green Bay and Mississippi
Canal Company were authorized to sell and dispose of the
rights and property of said company to the United States,
and to cause'to be made and executed all papers and writings
necessary thereto as contemplated in the act of Congress.
Subsequently, in November, 1871, the arbitrators fixed the
then value of all the property of the company at $1,048,070,
and the amount realized from land sales, to be deducted therefrom, at $723,070, leaving a balance of $321,000 to be paid to
the company. And, in anticipation that the Secretary might
decide that the personal property and "the water powers
created by the dams and by the use of the surplus waters not
required for purpbses of navigation," were not needed, these
water powers and the water lots necessary to the enjoyment
of the same, subject to all uses for navigation, were valued at
the sum of $140,000, personal property $40,000, and -the improvements $145,000.
The Secretary of War recommended to Congress that it
should take the works of improvement and not the water
powers and personal property. Congress accordingly, by act
approved June 10, 1872, made the necessary appropriation,
and the company, by its deed of September, 1872, conveyed
and granted to the United States "all and singular its property and rights of property in and to the line of water communication between the Wisconsin River and the mouth of
Fox River, including its locks, dams, canals and franchises,
saving and excepting therefrom, and reserving to the said
company, the following described property, rights and portion of franchises which, in the opinion of the Secretary of
War and of Congress, are not needed for public use, to wit:
First. All of the personal property of the said company, and
particularly of all such property described in the list or schedule attached to the report of said arbitrators, and now on file
in the office of the Secretary of War, to which reference is
hereto made, whether or not such property be appurtenant to

GREEN BAY &c. CANAL CO. v. PATTEN PAPER CO.

63

Statement of the Case.

said line of water communication. Second. Also all that part
of the franchise of said company, viz., the water powers
created by the dams and by the use of the surplus waters not
required for the purpose of navigation, with the rights of protection and preservation appurtenant thereto, and the lots,
pieces or parcels of land necessary to the enjoyment of the
same, and those acquired with reference to the same, all subject to the right to use the water for all purposes of navigation, as the same is reserved in leases heretofore made by said
company, a blank form of which attached to the said report
of said arbitrators is now on file in the office of the Secretary
of War, and to which reference is here made, and subject also
to all leases, grants and assignments made by said company,
the said leases, et cet., being also reserved therefrom."
The leases referred to, and reserved from the grant, were
those granted by the company to third parties, in consideration of the payment of annual rents. The use of the surplus
water began as early as 1861, and has extended until now
from one quarter to one half of the flow of the river is utilized
at points near the first lock. The company has caused to be
erected, at this point, large and costly mills, and it was found
by the trial court that the Green Bay and Mississippi Canal
Company has leased all of the water power created by the
dam and canal, or arm of the dam, to be used over the water
lots abutting on the canal.
The cause having been submitted to the Superior Court of
Milwaukee County, upon the pleadings and proofs, that court
sustained the allegations contained in the cross-complaint of
the Green Bay and Mississippi Canal Company, and adjudged,
among other things, that "The Green Bay and Mississippi
Canal Company is the owner of and entitled as against all the
parties to this action, and their successors, heirs and assigns,
to the full flow of the river, not necessary to navigation, and
that all and singular the other parties to this action are hereby
forever enjoined from interfering With the said Green Bay and
Mississippi Canal Company in so withdrawing and using such
water; and it is further considered and adjudged and decreed
as in favor of the Patten Paper Company against all other

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

defendants, that all of the water of the river which is .permitted by the Green Bay and Mississippi Canal Company to
flow over the upper dam or into the river above Island No. 4,
so as to pass down the river, should be, and it is hereby, divided and apportioned between the plaintiffs and their successors and assigns, the Kaulcauna Water Power Company, and
its successors and assigns, and the Green Bay and Mississippi
Canal Company, and its successors and assigns, between and
to the south, middle and north channels of the river in the
following proportions, et cet."
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin reversed the judgment so
rendered by the Superior Court, and remanded the case to the
Superior Court with directions to enter judgment in accordance with its opinion. That court, in obedience to the mandate of the Supreme Court, entered a final judgment
in the
0
case, as follows, omitting recitals:
" Upon motion of Hooper and Hooper, plaintiffs' attorneys,
it is considered, adjudged and decreed, as in favor of the Patten Paper Company, Union Pulp Company and Fox River
Pulp and Paper Company against all defendants, that all the
water of the river except that required for purposes of navigation shall be and is hereby divided and apportioned between
and to the south, middle and north channels of the river, in
the following proportions, that is to say: 43-200 thereof of
right should flow down the south channel; 157-200 thereof
should of right flow down the main channel of the river,
north of Island No. 4, and that of the water so of right flowing down the main channel of the river, north 6f Island
No. 4, and above the middle channel, 62-157 thereof should
of right flow down the middle channel and south of Island
No. 3, and that of the water flowing down the north channel
north. of Island No. 4, and above Island No. 3, 95-157 part
should of right flow down the north channel and north of
Island No. 3; and each of the parties •to this action, their
heirs, successors and assigns, are forever enjoined from interfering with the waters of said river so as to prevent their
flowing into said channels in the proportions aforesaid.
"And it is further adjudged by the court that said Green

GREEN BAY &c. CANAL CO. v. PATTEN PAPER CO.

65

Statement of the Case.

Bay and Mississippi Canal Company, its successors and assigns,
shall so use the water, if at all, created by said dam, as that
all the water used for water power or hydraulic purposes shall
be returned to -the stream in such a manner and. at such a
place as not to deprive the appellants or those claiming under
or through them of its use as it had been accustomed to flow
past the lands of the said appellants on said river and in the
-several channels of said river below said dam as it was accustomed to flow, and that said appellants shall have the right
to use the water of said river, except such as is or may be
necessary for navigation, as it was wont to run in a state of
nature without material alteration or diminution."
From this judgment the Green Bay and M ississippi Canal
Company, plaintiff in the cross-bill, appealed to the Supreme
Court of the State; and on January 10, 1896, the respondents,
the present defendants in error, moved to dismiss said appeal
for the reason that the judgment was in exact accord with
the mandate and was in effect the judgment of the Supreme
Court. Upon this motion the Supreme Court dismissed the
appeal, expressing itself as follows:
"After careful consideratioA we are constrained to hold
that the judgment entered is a substantial compliance with
the mandate of this court. Certainly it would have been
improper to allow any amendment to pleadings or new litigation. The mandate was not for a new trial, nor for further
proceedings according to law, but with direction to enter
judgment in accordance with the opinion, and the opinion
left nothing undetermined. This left nothing for the trial
court to do in the case except to enter judgment therein as
directed."
By that appeal and its decision the jurisdiction of the state
courts in the case was exhausted, and thejudgment entered
in the Superior Court became the final judgment of the highest court in the State in which a decision in the suit could be
had. And on May 18, 1896, a writ of error to said judgment
by the Green Bay and Mississippi Canal Company was taken
to this cour.t and allowed by the Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin.
voL. cLxx-5

66

OCTOBER TERI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. B. J. Stevens and Mr. William F. YFilas for plaintiff
in error. Mr. .. Mariner was on their brief.
.Mr. Afred L. Gary, Mr. George G. Greene and ff. Moses
Hooper for defendants in error. -Mr. John T. Fish and .Mr.
-DavidSi Ordway were on their brief.
MR. JUSTICE S MAs, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

First for our consideration is the motion made by the defendants in error to dismiss the writ of error because the
record does not disclose that any Federal question was involved
in the controversy, and because no title, right, privilege or
immunity claimed under the Constitution of the United States,
or any treaty or statute of, or commission held or authority
exercised under the United States, was specifically set up or
claimed in the trial court or in the Supreme Court of the State
of Wisconsin by the plaintiff in error, nor was there any decision in either of said state courts against any such title, right,
privilege or immunity specially set up or claimed by the plaintiff in error.
The contention that no Federal question is disclosed in the
record is sufficiently disposed of, we think, by an inspection
of the cross-complaint filed by the Green Bay and Mississippi
Canal Company. It was therein claimed that the water power
in question was created by a dam, canal and other improvements owned and operated by the United States, and*that the
right and title of the said Canal Company to the use of the
water power so created arose under and by virtue of certain
alleged and recited acts of Congress and acts of the legislature
of the State of Wisconsin, relating to the improvement of Fox
River as a public highway, and especially by virtue of an
alleged contract between the United States and the Canal
Company, whereby the use of the surplus water created by
said dam and canal was granted and reserved to the Canal
Company.
Assuming the truth of such allegations, it is plain that th6

GREEN BAY &c. CANAL CO. v. PATTEN PAPER CO.

67

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff in error asserted a right and title and authority exercised under the United States.
It is, however, urged that, .whatever may have been the
right, title, privilege or authority possessed by the Canal Company and derived from the United States, such right, title,
privilege or authority was not specially set up and claimed in
the state courts dt a time and in a manner to give this court
jurisdiction.
This contention is based on the words in section 709 of the
Revised Statutes, carried forward from the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, "specially set up or
claimed;" and the effect to be given to those words has been
frequently considered by this court.
There is a class of cases wherein it has been held and laid
down as settled doctrine that "the revisory power of this
court does not extend to rights denied by the final judgment
of the highest court of a State, unless the party claiming such
rights plainly and distinctly indicated, before the state court
disposed of the case, that they were claimed under the Constitution, treaties or statutes of the United States; that if a
party intends to invoke for the protection of his rights the
Constitution of the United States, or some treaty, statute, commission or authority of the United States, he must so declare;
and unless he does so declare 'specially,' that is, unmistakably,
this court is without authority to re-examine the final judgment of the state court; that this statutory requirement is
not met if such declaration is so general in its character that
the purpose of the party to assert a Federal right is left to
mere inference."
The last elaborate discussion of this phase of. the subject is
found in the opinion of the court in Oxley Stave Company v.
Butler County, 166 U. S. 648, delivered by Mr. Justice Harlan,
in which many of the cases are reviewed and from which the
preceding quotation is taken.
But no particular form of words or phrases has ever been
declared necessary in which the claim of Federal rights must
be asserted. It is sufficient if it, appears from the record
that such rights were specially set up or claimed in the state

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

court in such manner as to bring it to the attention of that
court.
"The true and rational rule," this court said in Bridge
P roprietorm v. Hoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116, 143, "is that the
court must be able to see clearly, from the whole record, that
a certain provision of the Constitution or act of Congress was
relied on by the party who brings the writ of error, and that
the right thus claimed by him was denied." In Roby v.
Colehour, 146 U. S. 153, 159, it was said that "our jurisdiction being invoked, upon the ground that a right or immunity, specially set up and claimed under the Constitution or
authority of the United States, has been denied by the judgment sought to be reviewed, it must appedr from the record
of the case either that the right, so set up and claimed, was
expressly denied, or that such was the necessary effect in law
of the judgment." "If it appear from the record, by clear
and necessary intendment, that the Federal question must
have-been directly involved, so that the state court could not
have given judgment without deciding it, that will be sufficient."
Powell v. Brunswick County, 150 U. S. 433, 440;
Sayward v. Denny, 158 U. S. 180; Chicago, .Burlington &c.
Railroadv. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226.
As then in its cross-complaint, the Canal Company explicitly
set up and claimed, as the foundation of its alleged rights, the
acts of Congress and the transactions between the United
States and the Canal Company, under which the United
States became the owner of the dam, canal and other improvements on the Fox River, and the Canal Company
became vested with its rights ih the surplus water power
incidental to said works, and as, in the final judgment, the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin necessarily held adversely to
these claims of Federal right, we hold that the motion to
dismiss for want of jurisdiction must be overruled, and that
it is our duty to inspect the record in order to see whether
there was error in the rulings of the court below.
Whether the water power, incidentally created by the erection and maintenance of the dam and canal for the purpose
of navigation in Fox River, is subject to control and appro-

GREEN BAY &c. CANA-L CO. v. PATTEN PAPER CO.

69

. Opinion of the Court.

priation by the United States, owning and operating those
public .works, or by the State of Wisconsin, within whose
limits Fox River lies, is the decisive question in this case.
Upon the undisputed facts contained in the record we think
it clear that the Canal Company is possessed of whatever rights
to the use of this incidental water power that could be validly
granted by the United States.
That Fox River is one of the navigable waters of the United
States has been already decided by this court in the case of
T/ie .fMontello, 20 Wall. 430, upon the same facts, historical
and legislative, that are now before us. That was the case of
a libel filed by the Government in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Wisconsin against the steamer
Mlontello, in admiralty, for non-compliance with acts of Congress making enrolment and license and certain provisions as
to steam valves -necessary for vessels like the Montello navigating the navigable waters of the United States. The court
below dismissed the libel, resting its decision on the ground
that before the navigation of the river was artificially improved there had been numerous obstructions to a continuous
navigation, by reason of falls and rapids, and that, therefore,
Fox River was not a navigable water of the United States.
But this court reversed the judgment and held that Fox River
is a stream of a national character, and that steamboats navigating its waters are subject to governmental regulations.
To aid in the improvement of the Fox and Wisconsin Rivers,
and to connect the same by a canal, the United States, by the
act of August 8, 1846, c. 170, 9 Stat. 83, granted a quantity
of land on each side of Fox River, and the lakes through
which it passes, from its mouth to the point where the portage canal should enter the same, and provided that, as soon
as the Territory of Witconsin should -be admitted as a State,
all the lands granted by the act should become the property
of said State "for the purpose contemplated by the act, and
no other." It further enacted that the legislature should
agree to accept said grant upon the terms specified in the act,
and should have power to fix the price at which said lands
should be sold, not less than one dollar and twenty-five cents

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the acre; and to adopt such kind and plan of improvement
on said route as the said legislature shall from time to time
determine for the best interest of said State; and provided,
also, that the lands granted should not be conveyed or disposed of by said State, except as said improvements should
progress- that is, the said State might sell so much of said
lands as should produce the sum of twenty thousand dollars,
and then the sales should cease until the Governor of the State
should certify the fact to the President of the United States
that one half of said sum had been expended upon said improvement, when the said State might sell and dispose of a
quantity of said lands sufficient to reimburse the amount
expended; and that thus the' sales should progress as the.
proceeds thereof should be expended, and the fact of such
expenditure certified in the manner in the act mentioned. It
further enacted that the said improvements should be commenced within three years after the said State should be
admitted into the Union, and completed within twenty years,
or the United States should be entitled to receive the amount
for which any of said lands might have been sold by the
State.
In February, 1848, the State of Wisconsin was created by
the adoption of a constitution, and the legislature of the new
State, by an act passed August 8, 1848, accepted the grant
from Congress made by the act of August 8, 1846, and organized a board of public works, and authorized the board, in the
construction of such improvements, to "enter on, to take possession of and use all lands, waters and materials the appropriation of which for the use of such works of improvement
should in their judgment be necessary." The act of August,
1848, contained the following section :
"SEC. 16. When any lands, waters or materials appropriated by the board to the use of said improvements shall
belong to the State, such lands, waters -ot materials, and so
much of the adjoining land as may be valuable for hydraulic
or commercial purposes, shall be absolutely reserved to the
State, and whenever a water power shall be created by reason
of any dam erected or other improvements made on any of

GREEN BAY &c. CANAL CO. v. PATTEN PAPER CO.

71

Opinion of the Court.

said rivers, such water power shall belong to the State subject
to future action of the legislature."
Sections 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 provided for condemnation
by the board of such lands, waters and materials belonging to
individuals, with whom the board could not agree, and for
payment of damages out of the fund.
By-an act approved February 9, 1850, c. 283, p. 226, the
legislature of Wisconsin enacted as follows:
"The board of public works are hereby authorized and
empowered in any future lettings of contracts for the improvement of the Fox and Wisconsin Rivers to consider bids made
by any person or persons for improvements which will create
a water power, and when such person or persons offer to perform, or perform and maintain, the work in consideration of
the granting by the State to him or them, his or their assigns,
forever, the whole or a part of such water power: Provided,
That before such bid is accepted and the contracts entered
into it shall receive the approval of the governor.
"When lettings have been made for the improvement of
said rivers, whereby a water power is created, the board of
public works may relinquish to the person or persons who
have performed the same all or a part of such power as a
consideration in full or in part for such performance or maintenance of such improvement, or for both."
The eighth article of the constitution of Wisconsin contained the following:
"SEC. 10. The State shall never contract any debt for
works of internal improvement or be a party carrying on such.
works; but whenever grants of land or other property shall
have been made to the State, especially dedicated by the grant
to particular works of internal improvement, the State may
carry on such particular works, and shall devote thereto the
avails of such grants, and may pledge or appropriate the
revenues derived from such works in aid of their completion."
By the act approved July 6,1853, the legislature of Wis-'
consin created a corporation to supersede the board of public
works in the construction and maintenance of the improvements on the Fox and Wisconsin Rivers under the name of

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the." Fox and Wisconsin Improvement Company," and granted
and surrendered to the said company "the works of improvement contemplated by the act entitled 'An act to provide for
the improvement of the Fox and Wisconsin Rivers and connecting the same by a canal,' approved August 8,1848, and by several acts supplemental thereto and amendatory thereof, and
known as the 'Fox and Wisconsin Rivers improvement,'
together with all and singular the rights of way, dams, locks,
canals, water power and other appurtenances of said works;
also all the right possessed.by the State of demanding and receiving tolls and rents for the same, so far as the State possesses or is authorized to grant the same, and all privileges of
constructing said works and repairing the same, and all other
rights and privileges belonging to the improvement to the
same extent and in the same-manner that the State now holds
or may. exercise such rights by virtue of the acts above referred to in this section."
The Fox and Wisconsin Improvement Company, thus
created and empowered, agreed to fully execute the trust, and
forthwith undertbok the work.
By an act, approved October 3, 1856, c. 112, p. 123, entitled
"An act to secure the enlargement and immediate completion
of the improvement of the navigation of the Fox and Wisconsin Rivers," etc., it was enacted, by its second section, as
follows:
"S~o. 2. To enable said company to make all the dams,
locks, canals, feeders and other structures, and to do all the
dredging and other work, and furnish all materials necessary
to complete the improvement of the navigation of the Fox
and Wisconsin Rivers and the canal connecting the same, all
the lands now unsold, granted by Congress in aid of said
improvement, as explained by the same body, (which grants
are hereby accepted,) are hereby granted to the Fox and
Wisconsin Improvement Company, subject, however, to the
terms and conditions, of said grants by Congress, and to the
further terms and conditions following, that is to say: That
within ninety days after the passage of this act, the said coinpany shall make a deed of trust to three trustees, to be ap-

GREEN BAY &c. CANAL CO. v. PATTEN PAPER CO.

713

Opinion of the Court.

pointed as hereinafter provided, including and conveying to
said trustees and their successors all the unsold lands granted
to the State of Wisconsin by the several acts and resolutions
of Congress to aid in the improvement of the Fox and Wisconsin Rivers, and all the works of improvements constructed or
to be constructed on said rivers, and all and singular the rights
of way, dams, locks, canals, water powers and other appurtenances of said works, and all rights, privileges and franchises belonging to said improvement, and all property of
said company, of whatever name and description."
By the third section it was enacted that, for raising funds,
from time to time, for the construction, enlargement and
completion of said works of improvement, and for the purchase of materials to be used therein, etc., said company
might issue its bonds, to be countersigned by said trustees, in
sums of not less than five hundred nor more than one thousand dollars each, at rates of interest not exceeding ten per
centum per annum,, payable semiannually, the principal of
said bonds payable at a period to be therein named, not exceeding twenty years from their date, etc., and that the payment of said bonds should be secured by the deed of trust
aforesaid of said lands, works, water powers, property and
franchises. It was further provided that, in case- the company should fail to comply with any of the requirements of
the act, or to pay the principal or interest of its bonds, to be
issued as therein provided, the said trustees should sell the
said lands in tracts not exceeding six hundred and forty acres,
and should apply.the proceeds thereof to the purposes expressed in the act, and that, if the proceeds of said sales
should be insufficient to pay all the evidences of state indebtedness and interest thereon and redeem all the bonds and
other obligations of said company, then the said trustees
should sell the water powers created by said improvements,
and thereafter all the corporate rights, privileges, franchises
and property of said company in said improvement, and all
appurtenances thereto, to pay the same; and that the purchasers thereof should take, hold and use the same as fully as
they were held, used and enjoyed by said company, etc.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
I

Opinion of the Court.

By the fourth section it was enacted that the trustees
might on the requisition of said company, proceed to sell the
lands granted by Congress in aid of 'said improvement, and
might sell-or lease the water powers created by said improvement, in such manner and upon such terms, as to price and
time and place of payment, as the company might direct;
but that no sales of said lands, or sales or leases of said water
powers, should be made until after the execution and delivery
of said deed of trust, etc.
In 1864 the company failed, the deed of trust was foreclosed, and the property of the company, consisting of the
works of improvement, lands and water powers, were sold, in
February, .1866, to purchasers, who became incorporated,
under authority of law, as the Green Bay and Mississippi
Canal Company. In the act of April 12, 1866, authorizing
the purchasers at said s ale'to form "a corporation for the purpose of holding, selling, operating or managing the lands,
water powers, works of improvement, franchises and other
property purchased'at said sale, or any part thereof," it was
enacted that said corporation should have power to enlarge
and increase the capacity of said works and of the said rivers
iso as to make a uniform steamship navigation from the Mississippi River to Green Bay, or to surrender the same to the
United States for such enlargement on such terms as should
be approved by the Governor of the State.
The amount realized at the sale was just sufficient to pay
the state indebtedness, outstanding on account of certificates
issued to aid in the work of improvement, and the sum estimated, by a commission duly appointed, to be necessary to
complete the improvement.
The Green Bay and Mississippi Canal Company, thus organized, continued to hold the works of improvements and manage
the same until, in 1870, Congress passed an act providing for
the purchase from the company of "all and singular its property and rights of property in and to the line of water communication between the Wisconsin River and the mouth of
the Fox River, including its locks, dams, canals and franchises,
or so much of the same as should, in the judgment of the Secre-

GREEN BAY &c. CANAL CO. v. PATTEN PAPER CO.

75

Opinion of the Court.

tary of War, be needed," and authorizing the appointment of
a board of arbitrators, to be mutually chosen, who should
appraise the properties to be taken. This act provided that
in making their award the arbitrators should take into consideration the amount of money realized from the sale of the
lands granted to the State of Wisconsin to aid in the construction of said water communication, which amount was to be
deducted from the actual value thereof as found by the
arbitrators.
In pursuance of this legislation, the arbitrators were appointed and acted. They fixed the value of the company's
property at $1,048,070; the amount of the land sales at
$723,070; leaving a balance of $325,000 to be paid the company. They valued the water power and the water lots
necessary to the enjoyment of the same at the sum of
$140,000; 'the personal property at. $40,000, and the improvement at $145,000.
Subsequently Congress, by act of June 10, 1872, c. 416,
17 Stat. 370, appropriated the amount of $145,000,, and on
September 18, 1872, the Canal Company, by its deed of that*
date, transferred and conveyed the works of improvement to
the United States, reserving to itself the personal property
and the water powers in the language following:
"All that part of the franchises of said company, viz.: The
water powers created by the dams and by the use of the surplus waters not required for purposes of navigation, with th6
rights of protection and reservation appurtenant thereto, and
the lots, pieces or parcels of land necessary to the enjoyment
of the same, and those acquired-with reference to the same,
all -subject to the right to use the water for all purposes of
navigation, as the same is reserved in leases heretofore made
by said company; . . . and subject, also, to all leases,
grants and assignments made by said company, the said leases,
etc., being also reserved herefrom."
Since that time the UnitedStates have assumed possession
and exclusive control of the rivers, and have expended several
millions of dollars in their improvement, in pursuance of
yearly appropriatiofis; and the Canal Company has con-

OCTOBER TERIMI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

tinned, until the decree complained of in the present case, in
the possession and enjoyment of the water powers and water
lots mentioned in the report of the arbitrators.and reserved in
the deed to the United States.
It is apparent from the conceded facts that the water power
in question did not exist while the stream was in its natural
condition. Nor was it created by the erection of a dam by
-private persons for that sole purpose.
We, of course, must accept the doctrine of the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin, that it would not be competent even for
the legislature to legalize such structures for private purposes.
Such a question is for the state tribunals.
But we bave here the case of a water power incidental to
the construction and maintenance of a public work and, from
the naturo of the case, subject to the control of the public
authorities, in this instance the United States.
It also appears that, through the entire history of this improvement, these incidental water powers were recognized by
the legislature of the State as a source of revenue for the promotion and success of the public enterprise, and in aid of its
completion. By the act of July 6, 1853, the water powers
were granted with the rest of the public works to the Fox
and Wisconsin Improvement Company, upon a public trust
to continue and complete the partially, constructed highway,
and the company was thereby authorized to mortgage such
water powers, a's part of the plant, to secure bonds issued to
raise money for that-purpose; and, subsequently, upon a fore-.
closure the entire property became vested in the Green Bay
and M.ississippi Canal Company.
The case of Kraukauna Co. v. Green Bay and Misiesiy)l)
Canal Co., 142 U. S, 254, involved some of the questions presented in the present case. There a private riparian owne
sought to withdraw water from this very dam to furnish
power to its works. The Canal Company filed a bill against
such owner, the Kaukauna Water Company, to enjoin it from
interfering with the Canal Company in building and maintaining the dam, and.from cutting said (lam in order to permit a
flow of water out of the pool into the works of the defendant.

GREEN BAY &c. CANAL CO. v. PATTEN PAPER CO.

77

Opinion of the Court.

The decree asked for was granted by the Circuit Court of
Outagamie County, and that judgment was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin. 70 Wisconsin, 645. The case
was brought to this court where it was contended, on behalf
of the Kaukauna Water Power Company, that said company,
by reason of ownership of the bank and of the bed of the
stream, was the owner of the use, while passing, of all the
water which might flow over the bed of the stream; in other
words, \vas the owner of all the water power which could be
utilized upon its land; and that, therefore, the act of the State
of Wisconsin of August 8, 1848, was void as an impairment
of such property rights. The judgment of the court below
was affirmed in an opinion by M r. Justice Brown, some of the
observations of which are so pertinent to our present purpose
that we quote them at some length:
"The case of the plaintiff canal company depends primarily
upon the legality of the legislative act of 1848, whereby the
State assumed to reserve to itself any water power which
should be created by the erection of the dam across the river
at this point. No question is made of the power of the State
to construct or authorize the construction of this improvement,
and to devote to it the proceeds of the land grant of the United
States. The improvement of the navigation of a river is a
public purpose, and the sequestration or appropriation of land
or other property, therefore, for such purpose is doubtless a
proper exercise of the authority of the State under its power
of eminent domain. Upon the other hand it is probably true
that it is beyond the competency of the State to appropriate
to itself the property -of individuals for the sole purpose of
creating a water power to be leased for manufacturin'g purposes. This would be a case of taking the property of one
man for the benefit of another, which is not a const;tutional
exercise of the right of eminent domain. But if, in the erection of a public dam for a recognized public purpose, there is
necessarily'produced a surplus of water, which may properly
be used for manufacturing purposes, there is no sound reason
why the State may not retain to itself the power of controlling or disposing of such water as an incident of its right to

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

make such improvement. Indeed, it might become very necessary to retain the disposition of it in its own hands, in order
to preserve at all times a sufficient supply for the purposes of
navigation. If the riparian owners were allowed to tap the
pond at different places, and draw off the water for their own
use, serious consequences might arise, not only in connection
with the public demand for the purposes of navigation, but
between the riparian owners themselves as to the proper proportion each was entitled to withdraw -controversies which
could only be avoided by the State reserving to itself the immediate supervision of thb entire supply. As there is no need
of the surplus .unning to waste, there was nothing objectionable in permitting the State to let out the use of it to private
parties, and thus reimburse itself for the expenses of the improvement.
"The value of this water power created by the dam was
much greater than that of the river in its unimproved state in
the hands of the riparian proprietors who had not the means
to make it available. Those proprietors lost nothing that was
useful to them, except the technical right to have the water
flow as it Ead been accustomed and the possibility of their
being able somhe time to improve if. If the State could condemn this use of the water, with the other property of the
riparian owner, it might raise a revenue from it sufficient to
complete the work, which might otherwise fail. There was
every reason why a water power thus created should belong
to the public rather than to the riparian owners. Indeed, it
seems to have been the practice, not only in New York, but
in Ohio, in Wisconsin and perhaps in other States, in authorizing the erection of dams for the purpose of navigation, or
rather public improvement, to reserve the surplus of water
thereby created to be leased to private parties under authority
of the State; and where the surplus thus created was a mere
incident to securing an adequate amount of water for the public improvement, such legislation, it is believed, hs been uniformly sustained."
The learned judge then proceeds to cite decisions to that
effect rendered in several of the state Supreme Courts.

GREEN BAY &c. CANAL CO. v. PATTEN PAPER CO.

79

Opinion of the Court.

As respected the right of the riparian owners in that case
to recover compensation for their property thus taken, this
court held that the act of Congress of March 3, 1875, c. 166,
18 Stat. 506, to aid in the improvement of the Fox and Wisconsin Rivers, made a proper provision for such compensation,
and that although the act of 1875 may have been repealed by
the at of February 1, 1888, c. 4, 25 Stat. 4, 21, yet that the
lapse of thirteen years had afforded a reasonable opportunity
for the Kaukauna Water Power Company to have obtained
compensation for the damages sustained by the construction
of the improvements.
As previously stated, the State of Wisconsin, by its act of
October 3, 1856, granted and conveyed to the Fox and Wis,
consin Improvement Company all the rights and interest of
the State in the improvement, including the water powers
created thereby, and, in case the sales of the granted lands
should fail to realize a sum sufficient to complete the intended
works of improvement and to pay the outstanding indebtedness of the State, and redeem the bonds issued by the company, the State authorized the sale of the water powers
created by the said improvements. And, subsequently, by
act of March 23, 1871, the State authorized the Green Bay and
Mississippi Canal Company, which had become the owner of
the entire improvement works, lands and water powers by
purchase at the foreclosure sale, to s611 and dispose of the
same to the United States.
The legal effect and import of the sale and conveyance by
the Canal Company were to vest absolute ownership in the
improvement and appurtenances in the United States, which
proprietary rights thereby became added to the jurisdiction
and control that the United States possessed over the Fox
River as a navigable water. By the findings of the arbitrators
the sum of three hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars was
payable to the Canal Company, but, by agreement and under
the act of Congress of June 10, 1872, the United States consented to the retention by the Canal Company of certain
personal property and of the water powers, with the lots
appurtenant thereto, in part payment of the sum at which

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the entire plant had been appraised; and accordingly, in its
deed of conveyance, the company reserved to itself such personal property and the water powers and appurtenances, and
the United States paid the remaining sum of one hundred and
forty-five thousand dollars.'
The substantial meaning of the transaction was, that the
United States granted to the Canal Company the right to continue in the possession and enjoyment of the water powers and
the lots appurtenant thereto, subject to the rights and control
of the United States as owning and operating the public works,
and that the United States were credited with the appraised
value of the water powers and appurtenances and the articles of
personal property. The method by which this arrangement
was effected, namely, by a reservation in the deed, was an apt
one, and quite as efficacious as if the entire property had been
conveyed to the United States by one deed, and the reserved
properties had been reconveyed to the Canal Company by
another.
So far, therefore, as the water powers and appurtenant lots
are regarded as property, it is plain that the title of the Canal
Company thereto cannot be controverted; and we think it is
equally plain that the mode and extent of the use and enjoyment of such property by the Canal Company fall within the
sole control of the United States. At what points in the dam
and canal the water for power may be withdrawn, and the
quantity which can be treated as surplus with due regard to
navigation, must be determined by the authority which owns
and controls that navigation." In such matters there can be
no divided empire.
This aspect of the subject was before us in Wisconsrn V'.
.Dulith, 96 U. S. 379, 387, where the State of Wisconsin
sought, by an original bill in this court, to restrain the city of
Duluth from changing the current of the St. Louis River and
making other improvements in the city harbor to the detriment, as was claimed, of the harbor of Superior City within
the jurisdiction of Wisconsin. It, however, was disclosed that
Congress had made large appropriations for the work complained of, and that the executive department had taken

GREEN BAY &c. CANAL CO. v. PATTEN PAPER CO.

81

Opinion of the Court.

exclusive charge and control of it. The court dismissed the
bill, and in its opinion, by Mr. Justice Miller, said:
"Nor can there be any doubt that such action is within the
constitutional power of Congress. It is a power which has
been exercised ever since the Government was organized. The
only question ever raised has been how far and under what
circumstances the exercise of the power is exclusive of its
exercise by the States. And while this court has maintained,
in many cases, the right of the States to authorize structures in
and over the navigable waters of the States, which niay either
impede or improve their navigation, in the absence of any
action of the General Government in the same matter, the
doctrine has been laid down with unvarying uniformity that
when Congress has, by any expression of its will, occupied the
field, that action was conclusive of any right to the contrary
asserted under state authority."
To the same effect is South Carolinav. Georgia,93 U. S. 4.
Several cases are cited in the briefs for the defendants in
error, wherein it has been decided by state Supreme Courts of
high authority that whatever remains of the stream, beyond
what is wanted for the public improvement, and which continues to flow over the dam and down the original channel of
the river, belongs to riparian owners upon the stream, in the
same manner as if the state dam had not been erected.
Our examination of the cases so cited has not enabled us to
perceive that they are applicable to the present subject. In
none of them have we found that, by the state legislation,
was there a fund created out of the use of the surplus water,
to be expended in the completion and maintenance of the
public improvement. As we have seen, the entire legislation,
state and Federal, in the present instance, has had in view
the dedication of the water powers incidentally created by the
dams and canal to raising a fund to aid in the erection, conpletion and maintenance of the public works; and, as we have
further seen, provision was made in the Federal act of 1875
for the ascertainment and payment of damages, in respect to
which this court said, in KEaukauna Co. v. Green Bay and
.Mi8g8i8ippi

Canal Co., 142 U. S. 254, 279, that "the terms of

VOL. cLxxII-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

this act are broad enough to cover not only lands taken for
flowage purposes, but all injury done to lands or other property by means of -any part of the works of said improvement, which would include damages caused by the diversion
of the waters."
Moreover in the state cases cited by the defendants in
error, the question of Federal jurisdiction and control did not
arise and was not considered.
Other propositions, based on the alleged departure by the
Supreme Court of the State from the case made by the pleadings, were discussed by the counsel for the plaintiff in error;
but, as the views heretofore stated dispose of the case, it is not
necessary for us to consider them.
Our conclusion, then, is, that, as by the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin there was drawn into question
the validity of an authority exercised under the United States,
to wit, the granting of the said-water powers and easement, and
the decision was against the validity of such authority, thereby
depriving the plaintiff in error of property without due process
of law, the judgment. of that court must be and is hereby
Reversed and the case remanded to the SuT2reme Court qf
Wisconsin for further _procedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.

MEYER v. RICHMOND.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.
No. 48. Submitted October 14, IS98.-Decided November 2S, 189S.

The plaintiff's declaration, in a case pending in a nisipriuscourt in Virginia,
set forth that he was the owner in fee of a lot of land fronting on Eighth
street between Cary and Canal streets, in Richmond, on which were
located two brick buildings, the first floor of which was used for store
purposes and the second story as dwellings; that said property, previous
to the obstruction of Eighth street, as hereinafter described, was very
profitable as an investment, being continuously rented to good tenants,
who promptly paid remunerative rents for the same; that on the 25th

