'UNITED STATES v. INGRAM.
Counsel for Appellants.

UNITED STATES v. INGRAM.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 82. Argued December 9, 1898. -Decided January 8, 1899.
In 1890, appellee, under the Desert Land act of 1877 applied .to reclaim and
enter a tract of land, which was part of an even-numbered section of
lands within the limits of the grant to the Union Pacific Railway Company. The entry was approved, the claimant made the preliminary
payment thereon and received a certificate of entry. Subsequently he
abandoned the entry, and it was cancelled in 1895. This action was
brought to recover the sum so paid. Held, that, as he had voluntarily
abandoned the entry, he had no. cause of action for the sum which be
paid to initiate it.
United States v. Healey, 160 U. S. 136, examined and shown not to be inconsistent until this decision.

ON August 2, 1890, the appellee, William F. Ingram,
applied to the local land office at Salt Lake City, Utah,
under the Desert Land act of March 3, 1877, 19 Stat. 377,
c. 107, to reclaim and enter a tract of land containing 236.55
acres. The land so sought to be reclaimed and entered was
a part of an even-numbered section of lands withhi the limits
of the grant to the Union Pacific Railway Company. The
entry was approved by the local land office; the claimant
paid the sum of $118.28, being 50 cents per acre,, the preliminary payment thereon, and received an ordinary certificate of
entry. He failed, however, to reclaim the land by conducting
water on to it, as provided by the Desert tand act, and abandoned his entry, which, on December 19, 1895, was cancelled.
Thereafter this suit was brought to recover the money which
le had paid to the local land. officers. The Court of Claims,
while expressing an opinion, on a demurrer to the petition,
adversely to the contention of the petitioner, 82 C. Cl. 147,
finally entered a decree in his favor, from which decree the
United States appealed to this court.

.M. George Hinm Gorman for appellants.
Attorney General Pradt was on his brief.

.Mr.Assi8tant

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

.M1'. RW8sell -Duanefor appellee.

-Yr.Hagvey sSpading and

Mr.E. W. Svalding were on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE BRFWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The contention of the appellee is that no valid entry can
be made under the Desert Land act of land within the place
limits of a land grant to railroad corporations; that therefore
the attempted entry was absolutely void, and that if hQ had
fully complied with the provisions of that act he could 'aot
have acquired a good title to the lands entered; that he was
therefore justified in abandoning the entry which he had
attempted to make; that the Government had received
money which it had no right to receive, and was under an
implied obligation to return it-an obligation which could
be enforced by an action in the Court of Claims. His main
reliance is on United State8 v. Healey, 160 U. S. 136; but the
singular fact is that in that case a title by patent to an evennumbered section within the limits of a railroad land grant
acquiredunder the Desert Land act was not questioned, and
a claim of the patentee to recover the differeace between
$2.50 per acre, which he had paid. in accordance with the
statute in respect to railroad land grants, and $1.25 which
he insisted was all he was required to pay under the Desert
Land act, was rejected. Counsel for appellee pick out a
sentence or two in .the opinion in that case, and, severing
.them from the balance, insist that this court decided that
land within the place limits of a railroad land grant is wholly
removed from the operation of the Desert Land law, as much
so as if it had already been conveyed to a private owner, and
conclude that, being so wholly separated from the reach oE
that law, an attempted entry thereunder is absolutely void,
and may be abandoned by the entryman at any time. It
seems a little strange to have this contention pressed upon
us in view of the fact that a patent for lands within a railroad
land grant was not disturbed by that decision, and a claim to
recover an excess payment was repudiated. Nowhere in the

UNITED STATES v. INGRAM
Opinion of the Court.

opinion is there an intimation that the patentee did not
acquire a perfect title, no suggestion that the whole proceeding was void and the land patented still the property of the
Government, or even that it had the right to maintain a suit
to set aside the patent as a cloud upon its title. And certainly if the title conveyed by the patent Was absolutely void,
then the patentee had paid not only the half which he sought
to recover but the entire purchase money for nothing, and
should at least have been allowed to recover the half which
he sued for.
It may be well to refer to the several statutes of Congress.
The general policy in respect to railroad grants, expressed in
the many statutes making such grants, and finally carried
into the Revised Statutes in section 2357, is that while the
ordinary price of public lands is $1.25 an acre, "the price to
be paid for alternate reserved lands, along the line of railroads within the limits granted by any act of Congress, shall
be $2.50 per acre." One hundred and sixty acres might be
preempted at that price, or eighty acres homesteaded. (Rev.
Stat. sec. 2289.) In other words, Congress, in no manner
limiting either the right of prernmption or homestead, simply
declared that these alternate reserved lands should be considered as worth $2.50 instead of -$1.25, the ordinary price
of public lands. All appropriations by,individuals were based
upon that valuation, bu-the right to appropriate was in no
manner changed. The reason for this addition to the price
of alternate reserved sections within a railroad grant has
been often stated by this, court, and is referred to in the*
opinion in United States v. Healey, supra. It is that a railroad ordinarily enhances the value of contiguous lands, and
when Congress granted only the odd sections to aid in the
construction of one it believed that such construction would
make the even and reserved sections of at least double value.
This difference in price was based, as" will be perceived,
solely on the matter of location, and not at all upon any
distinction in the character or quality of the land, and the
difference in price was the only matter that distinguished
between an entry of lands within and those without the place

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

limits of a railroad. Such being the general policy of the
Government in respect to public lands, Congress in 1877
passed the Desert Land act. This act, while limited in its
operation to certain States and Territories, in terms applied
to "any desert land" within them. It provided for reclamation by irrigation, gave three years in which to accomplish
such reclamation, and permitted the entry of not exceeding
640 acres, The only substantial advantages of an entry
under the Desert Land act over an ordinary preemption
were in the amount of land and the time of payment. Six
hundred and forty acres could be taken under the one, and.
only one hundred and sixty under the other. The price was
the same, but under the one only twenty-five cents per acre
was payable at the time of the entry, and the balance was
not required until, at the end of three years, the reclamation
was complete; while under the other the entire $1.25 was
payable at the time of the entry. These advantages were
offered to induce reclamation of desert and arid lands.
; Now, it is a well-known fact that along the lines of many
land grant railroads are large tracts of arid lands -desert
lands within the very terms of the statute. Indeed, nearly
every transcontinental line runs for long distances through
these desert lands. Did Congress act on the supposition that
no Iinducement was necessary to secure the reclamation of
the arid public lands within the place limits of those grants?
Do not the reasons for legislation in respect to lands remote
from railroads have the same potency in respect to lands con-tiguous thereto? If Congress had intended to exclude lands
within the place limits of railroads from the scope of this
act would it have said "any desert land," or defined "desert
lands" as broadly as it did by section 2, which reads:
"S)c. 2. That all lands, exclusive of timber lands and mineral lands, which will not, without irrigation, produce some
agricultural crop, shall be deemed desert lands within the
meaning of this act, which facts shall be ascertained by proof
of two or more credible witnesses under oath, whose affidavits
shall be filed in the land office in which said tract of land may
be situated."

UINITED STATES v. INGRAM
Opinion of the Court.-

The reasons which established and justified the policy of
double price for the former apply as fully to lands- which had
to be reclaimed before they could be cultivated as to lands
which needed no reclamation.. Contiguity to the railroad is
the same fact in each. The significance of this was recognized.in the Healey caie. Indeed, the whole controversy in
that case was as to the matter of price, and grew out of the
fact that after the passage of the Desert Land act the Interior Department at first ruled that its effect was to reduce the
price of even sections within railroad place limits, entered
under it, from $2.50 to $1.25 an acre, while in 1889 a change
was made in its rulings, and it was thereafter held that the
act worked no such reduction. Secretary Noble, in Tilton's
ease, decided March 25, 1889, 8 Land Dec. 368, 369, said, and
his language was quoted in our opinion:
"Under such construction, section 2357 of the Revised Statutes and the Desert Land act do not conflict, but each has a
separate and appropriate field of operation; the former, regulating the price of desert lands reserved to the United States
along railway lines; and the latter, the price of other desert
lands not so located. There is nothing in the- nature of the
case which renders it proper that desert lands be made an
exception to the general rule any mre than lands entered
under the preemption laws. Lands reserved to the United
States along the line of railroads are made double minimum
in price because of their enhanced value in consequence of the
proximity of such roads. Desert lands subject to reclamation
are as much liable to be increased in value by proximity to
railroads as any other class of lands, and hence the reason of
the law applies to them as well as to other public lands made
double minimum in price. To hold desert lands an exception
to the general rule regulating the price of lands reserved
along the lines of railroads would be to make the laws on
this subject inharmonious and inconsistent."
Other rulings of the Land Department were cited, in no
one of which was there any denial of the right to enter lands
along a railroad under the Desert Land law. It was after these
citations that the language referred to by counsel was used.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

That language must be interpreted in view of the fact that
the only contention was as to. the price. It means simply
that the court did not consider the Desert Land act applicable as a whole and solidly to the reserved sections along a
railroad so as to subject them all to its provisions. In other*
words, the Desert land act did not supersede and destroy the
proviso of section 2357 in reference to a double price for such
reserved sections. We closed the discussion in reference to
this matter in these words:
"Giving effect to these rules of interpretation, we hold that
Secretaries Lamar and Noble properly decided that the act
of 1877 did not supersede the proviso of section 2357 of the
Revised Statutes, and, therefore, did not embrace alternate
sections reserved to the United States by a railroad land
grant.
"It results that prior to the passage of the act of 1891,
lands such as those here in suit, although within the general
description of desert lands, could not properly be disposed of
at less than $2.50 per acre. Was a different rule prescribed
by that act in relation to entries made previously to its passage ?" 160 U. S.147.
The first of these paragraphs is one of the sentences referred
to by counsel and quoted in their brief. In it we do say "that
Secretaries Lamar and Noble properly decided that the act of
1877

.

did not embrace alternate sections reserved to

the United States by a railroad land grant," but the fall meaning of that language is disclosed only when we replace the
omitted words "1did not supersede the proviso of section 2357
of the Revised Statutes, and, therefore." And when we turn
to what Secretaries Lamar and Noble decided, we find that
they ruled, not that lands within the place limits of a railroad
land grant could not be entered under the Desert Land law,
but simply that they could not be entered for the-price named
in that law, $1.25 per acre, but were subject to the general
provision of double, price. The other sentence referred to by
counsel is similar, and while taken literally and disconnectedly
may give some countenance to their -contentions, yet when
read in the light of the entire opinion, manifestly was intended

UNgITED STATES v. INGRAM.
Opinion of the Court.

to mean no more than that the Desert Land act was not applicable in the matter of price to the reserved sectipns within
a railroad laud.grant. This conclusion appears also in the
last paragraph above quoted, where we say that "lands such
as those here in suit, although.within the general description
of desert lands, could not properly be disposed of at less than
$2.50 per acre." Not; that they could not be disposed of at all
under the Desert Land law, but only not at the price fixed by
that law.
The same conclusion appears subsequently, when reviewing the act of 1891, it was held that it had no effect upon
the price of lands entered before its date, our language
being
"We are of opinion that cases initiated under the original
act of 1877, but not completed, by final proof, until after the
passage of the act of 1891, were left by the latter act-at
least as to the price to be paid for the lands entered -to be
governed by the law in force at the time the entry was made.
So far as the price of the public lands was concerned, the act
of 1891 did not change, but expressly declined to change, the
terms and conditions that were applicable to entries made
before its passage. Such terms and conditions were expressly
preserved in respect of all entries initiated before the passage
of that act." - 160 U. S. 149.
We may remark in passing that the entry in this case
was before the act of 1891, and therefore, under the language
just quoted, it is unnecessary for us to notice any of its provisions.
It follows from these considerations that if the petitioner
Ingram had fully complied with the terms of the Desert Land
act he could, by the payment of $2.50 an acre, have acquired
title to the lands he sought to enter. Voluntarily abandoning
his entry, he has no cause of action for the sum which he paid
to initiate it. There is nothing in Frost v. Wenie, 157 U. S.
46, which conflicts with this conclusion, for there the decisionsimply was that lands which Congress held under a trust to
sell for the benefit of Indians could not be given away under
the homestead law, and hence that such law must be limited,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

in its application to the Fort Dodge reservation, to such lands
as were not covered by the trust.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is reversed, and the
case remanded to that court, with directions to enter a
juedgment for the defendant.

CLARK v. KANSAS CITY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No.402. Argued December 18, 1898. -Decided

January 8. 1899.

As the laws of Kansas permit an amendment of the plaintiffs' pleadings in
the.court below after the overruling by the Supreme Court of a demurrer
to them, and as the Supreme Court of the State, in deciding this case,
did 'not take that right away, it follows that the judgment of the state
court was not-flnal, and that this case must be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr.A. I. Wifliames forplaintiffs in error. .Mr.Win8Zow S.
Pierce and Mr. X. H. Zoomis were with him on the brief.
-Mr. F. D. lutchings and -Xr. Thoma8 A. Pollock for
defendants in error.
MR. JusTIb E MfKfENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Kansas to review a judgment of that court overruling a demurrer of the nisipriuscourt to the petition- of plaintiffs in
error for an injunction to restrain the collection of taxes,
levied by the city of Kansas City, on lands brought into that
city under the act of the legislature of Kansas authorizing cities
,ofthe first, class hating a population of 30,000 or more, which
shall be subdivided into lots and blocks, or whenever any unplatted tract of land shall lie upon or mainly within any such

