NAT'L BANK OF GflAND FORKS v. ANDERSON.

573

Opinion of the Court.

continued to perform the duties of both offices, he claimed
the compensation attached to both'-' whether this was owing
to his overlooking the provision in question, or to his own
understanding of its effect- has no tendency to show that he
elected to retain the office which he had resigned and to give
up the other.
The second question certified must therefore be answered
in the negative, and the third question becomes immaterial.
Ordered accordingly.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF GRAND FORKS '.
ANDERSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREM
Wo. 22.

COURT OF THE STATE OF :NORTH DAIOTA.

Submitted January , 1$99. -Decided

January 23,1 M.

The motion in this case to dismiss or affirm was founded upon the allegation that the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State rested on two
grounds, one of which, broad enough in itself to sustain the judgment,
involved no Federal question. This court, while declining to sustain the
motion to dismiss, holds that there was color for it, and takes jurisdiction of the motion to affirm.
A national bank which, being authorized by the owner of notes in its possession to sell them to a third party, purchases them itself and converts
them to its own use, is liable to their owner for their value, as for a
conversion, even though it was not within its power to sell them- as the
owner's agent.

THis was a motion to dismiss or affirm.
in the opinion.

The case is stated

21,. Henry T. Phelps for the motion.
Air. Burke Corbet and _fr. I' E. Dodge opposing.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIoE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was an action at law brought by Anderson against
the First National Bank of Grand Forks, North Dakota, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the District Court for the First Judicial District of North
Dakota, to recover the balance of the value of certain notes
belonging to Anderson, which he alleged the bank had converted.
The notes amounted to seven thousand dollars, secured by
mortgage, and h d been endorsed, and the mortgage assigned,
to the bank as collateral security for a loan of two thousand
dollars, and Anderson had authorized the bank to sell the
notes to a third party, take up the loan, and remit the balance. But, instead of doing this, the bank, according to
Anderson, had undertaken to purchase the notes itself, and
had not accounted for their value.
The cause was tried four times, and four times carried to
the Supreme Court of iNorth Dakota. 4 Nor. Dakota, 182;
5 Nor. Dakota, 80, 451; 6 Nor. Dakota, 497. On the fourth
appeal a judg~ment in favor of Anderson was affirmed by the
Supreme Court, and this writ of error to revise it was allowed,
which defendant in error now moves to dismiss, or, if that
motion is not sustained, that the judgment be affirmed.
By exceptions to the admission of certain testimony, taken
on trial, and by the assignment of errors in the Supreme
Court, plaintiff in error raised the point that, under the statutes of the United States in respect of national banks, it was
not within its power to become the agent of defendant in error
to sell the notes in question to a third person; and not within
the power of its cashier, who conducted the transaction, to
bind the 'bank by such contract of agency.
On the third appeal, 5 Nor. Dakota, 451, the Supreme Court
ruled that "when a national bank holds notes of its debtor as
collateral to his indebtedness to the banik, it may lawfully act
as agent for him in the sale of such notes to a third person,
such agency being merely incidental to the exercise of its conceded power to collect the claim out of such collateral notes."
But further, that even though the act of agency were ultuz
vires, yet if the bank, instead of selling the notes to a *third
person, had, without the owner's knowledge, sold them to itself, it would be guilty of conversion, and could be held responsible therefor. As to the cashier, the court held that on the

NAT'L BANK OF GRAND FORKS v. ANDERSON.

575

Opinion of the Court.

pleadings and facts in the case, his act was the act of the
bank.
The Supreme Court in its opinion on the fourth appeal, 6
Nor. Dakota, 497, 509, among other things, said: "IThe question of ultra vires has been already discussed in a previous
opinion. See 5 Nor. Dakota, 451. We have nothing to add
on that point. The recent decision of the Federal Supreme
Court cited by counsel for appellant, California Bank v. Eennedy, 167 U. S.362, does not appear to us to call for any change
of our former ruling on this question. What we said in our
opihion on the third appeal on the subject of the authority of
the cashier to bind the defendant by creating the relation of
principal and agent between plaintiff and defendant is still
applicable to the case on the record now before us. In its answer and the brief of its counsel the defendant admits that the
writing of the.letters referred to was its act and not the actof
an unauthorized agent. By its own pleading and admissions
it has precluded itself from raising the point that the cashier
had no power to bind it by agreeing that the bank would act
as agent for the plaintiff."
The argument urged in support of the motion to dismiss is,
principally, that the judgment of the state Supreme Court
rested on two grounds, one of which, broad enough in itself
to sustain the judgment, involved no Federal question.
This contention isso far justified as to give color to the
.motion, although, under our decision in Logan County IVational Bank v. Townsend, 139 U. S. 67, We must decline to
sustain it, while, at the same time, that case affords sufficient
authority, if authority were needed, for an affirmance of the
judgment.
There, bonds had been sold and delivered to a national bank
at a certain price, under an agreement that the bank would,
on demand, replace them at that or a less price; and the bank
had refused compliance. In an action against the bank, its
'defence was in part that by reason of want of authority to
make the alleged agreement and purchase, it could not be
held liable for the bonds -on any ground whatever. It was
decided, however, that the national banking act did not give

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

a national bank an absolute right to retain bonds coming into
its possession by purchase under a contract which it was without legal authority to make, and that although the bank was
not bound to surrender possession of them until reimbursed to
the full amount due to it, and might hold them as security
for the return of the consideration paid, yet that when such
amount was returned, or tendered back to it, and the return
of the bonds demanded, its authority to retain them no longer
existed; and, from the time of such demand and its refusal to
surrender the bonds to the vendor br owner, it became liable
for their value on grounds of implied contract, apart from the
original agreement under which it obtained them.
Here, the bank was found to have itself purchased notes,
which the owner had authorized it to sell to a third party, and,
on-general principles of law, it was held liable for their value
as for a conversion, even though it was not within its powers
to sell them as the owner's agent.
We are of opinion that the Supreme Court of :North Dakota
committed no error in the disposition of any Federal question,
and its judgment-is

.Airmned.

UNITED STATES v. DUELL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
INo. 444. Argued December 1, 2, 1898.-Decided January 23, 1899.
An appeal to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia from the
decision of the Commissioner of Patents in an interference controversy
presents all the features of a civil case, a plaintiff, a defendant and a
judge, and deals with a question judicial in its nature, in respect of which
the judgment of the court is final, so far as the particular action of the
Patent Office is concerned; and such judgment is none the less a judgment because its effect may be to aid an administrative or executive body
in the performance of duties legally imposed upon it by Congress in execution of a power granted by the Constitution.
In, deciding whether a patent shall issue or not, the Commissioner of Patents
acts on evidence, finds the facts, applies the law and decides questions

