OCTOBER TERM, 1898.;
Statement of the Case.

which there are a large number, but the disposition we have
made of the others renders it unnecessary to consider them.
While the propriety of some of the rulings may admit of
.doubt, the objections made were extremely technical in their
character, and the majority of the court are of opinion that no
error was committed prejudicial to the plaintiff and to the secured creditors, and that the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals must therefore be

Afl rmed.

UTTER v. FRANKLIN.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 94. Argued and submitted December 12, 1898. -Decided

January 8, 1899.

It was within the power of Congress to validate the bonds in question in
this proceeding, issued -by the authorities of the Territory of Arizona,
to promote the construction of a railroad.

THIs was a petition for a writ of mandamus to compel the
defendants, who were respectively governor, auditor and secretary of the Territory, acting as loan commissioners, to issue
certain bonds in exchange for bonds issued by the county of
Pima in aid of the Arizona Narrow Gauge Railroad Company.
The petition set forth that plaintiffs were the bona flde
holders for value of certain seven per cent bonds and coupons
issued in July, 1883, in compliance with an act of the Territory "to promote the construction of a *certain railroad,"
approved February 21, 1883, aggregating, including principal
and interest thereon, the sum of $289,964.50. There was a
further allegation in the petition that it was the duty of the
defendants to provide for the redeeming of such indebtedness
and to issue refunding bonds therefor; that plaintiffs had
made demands for the same, which defendants had refused.
Defendants demurred to the petition, and for answer
thereto averred that the bonds now held by the plaintiffs

UTTER v. FRANKLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

had been declared, both by the Supreme Court of the Territory and by this court, to be void, and therefore the petition
of the relators should be dismissed.
The petition being denied by the Supreme Court of Arizona, the relators appealed to this court. No opinion was
filed in the Supreme Court of the Territory.
-Mr.John F. Dillon for appellants. .Mr. Harry Hubbard,
Mri. John X. Dillon and ffr. William Hf. Barnes were on his
brief.
X..

CW.TT Wright for appellees.

Mr.. JUSTICE BRowN, after stating the case delivered the
opinion of the court.

The bonds now held by the relators were declared to be
invalid by this court in Lewis v. .Pima County, 155 U. S. 54,
upon the ground that bonds issued in aid of railways could
not be considered debts or obligations "necessary to the administration of the internal affairs" of the county, within the
meaning of the act of June 8, 1878, c. 168, 20 Stat. 101.
Whether the loan commissioners of the Territory can be
required to refund these obligations, and issue new bonds to
the holders thereof, depends upon the effect given to certain
legislation upon this subject, both by Congressional and territorial statutes. These statutes were enacted both before and
after the decision in -Lewis v. Pima County, supra.
It seems that doubts were entertained as tQ the validity of
bonds issued in aid of railroads, in view of the fact above
stated, that, under the Congressional act of 1878, the power of
municipalities to incur debts or obligations was limited to
such as were necessary to the administration of their internal
affairs. To put this question at rest, Congress on July 30,
1886, passed an act, c. 818, to limit territorial indebtedness,
2-1 Stat. 170, in the second section of which it was declared
"that no Territory of the United States now or hereafter to
be organized, or any political or municipal corporation, or subdivision of any such Territory, shall hereafter make any subvoL. cLxxH-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

scription to the capital stock of any incorporated company,
or company or association having corporate powers, or inany rmanner loan its credit to or use it for the benefit of any
such company or association, or borrow any m6ney for the use
of any such rompany or association." This section was undoubtedly designed to put a stop to the practice, which had
grown quite common in the Territories, of incurring debts .in
aid of railway and other corporations.
The' fourth section provided for a limit of municipal indebtedness, and then declared "that nothing in this act contained shall be so construed as to affect the validity of any act
of any territorial legislature heretofore enacted, or of any
obligations existing or contracted thereunder, nor to preclude
the issuing of bonds already contracted for in pursuance of
express provisions of law, nor to prevent any territorial legislature from legalizing the acts of any county, municipal corporation or subdivision of any Territory as to any bonds
heretofore issued or contracted to be issued.", This section
evidently left the law where, it stood before. It did not
assume to pass upon the validity of any territorial act previously enacted, or of any obligations thereunder incurred nor
.precludethe issue of bonds already contracted for under express provisions of law, leaving the courts to determine the
validity of such acts and obligations, and the further question
whether such bonds had been contracted for in puruance of
expre8s.proviions of law. It simply withheld its assent to, as

well as its negative upon, such transactions, and declined to
commit itself one way or the other. Nor did it assuriie to prevent the territoiial legislature from legalizing the acts of any,
subordinate municipality as to bonds theretofore issued or contracted to be issued, leaving it to the- territorial legislature
to determine whether they should attempt to legalize such
issues, and to the courts to pass upon the question whether this
could be lawfully done. The bonds theretofore issued were left
precisely where they stood before, and no attempt, was made
eitherto legalize or avQid them. Congress merely stayed its
.hand, and left the matter open for future consideration.
In this state of affairs the legislature of, Arizona, on March

UTTER v. FRA.NKLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

10, 1887, passed an act (Rev. Stat. Arizona,. p. 361) constituting the governor, auditor and secretary of the Territory loan
commissioners of the Territory, with the duty of providing
"for the payment of the existing territorial indebtedness, due
and to become due, and for the purpose of paying, redeeming
and refunding all or any part of the principil and interest, or
either, of the existing or subsisting territorial legal indebted-.
ness," with power to issue negotiable bonds therefor. This
power, however, was limited to the legal indebtedness of the
Territory, and apparently had no bearing upon the indebtedness of its municipalities, certainly not upon indebtedness
which had been illegally contracted. Indeed, the act is only
pertinent as. showing the authority under which the loan.
commissioners were appointed.
On June 25, 1890, c. 614, Congress passed an act, (26 Stat.
175,) approving with amendments this funding act of Arizona,
"subject to future territorial legislation," the second section
of which declared it to be the duty of the loan commissioners
"to provide for the payment of the existing territorial indebtedness due, and to become due, or that is or may be
hereafter authorized by law, and for the purpose of payihg,
redeeming and refunding
the existing and subsisting
territorial indebtedness, etc." The tenth section of this act
provided that the boards of supervisors of the counties, -nd
the municipal and school authorities, should report to the loan
commissioners of the Territory their bonded and outstanding
indebtedness, and that said loan commissioners should "provide for the redeeming or refunding of the county, municipal
and school district indebtedness, upon the qfficial demand, of
8aid authori.ies, in the same manner as other territorial indebtedness, and they shall issue bonds for any indebtedness
now allowed, or that may hereafter be allowed by law to said
county, municipality or school-district, upon official demand
by said authoritiei."
In compliance with the permit thus given by Congress for
future territorial legislation, the legislature of Arizona on
March 19, 1891, (Law of 1891, p. 120,) enacted a new funding act, only the following sections of which are material:

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

1. That the act of Congress entitled 'An act
approving with amendments the funding act of Arizona,'
approved June 25, 1890, be, and the same is hereby, now.
renacted as of the date of its approval, subject to the modifications and additional provisions hereinafter set out, and to
.carry out the purpose and intention of said act of Congress
the loan commissioners of the Territory of Arizona shall provide for the liquidation, funding and payment of the indebtedness existing and outstanding on the 31st day of December,
1890, of the Territory, the counties, municipalities and school
districts within said Territory,. by the issuance of bonds of
said Territory, as authorized by said act, and all bonds issued
under the provisions of this act and the interest thereon shall
be payable in gold coin of the United States."
"S~c. 7. Any person holding bonds, warrants or other evidence of indebtedness of the Territory .or any county, municipality or school district within the Territory, existing and
outstanding on the 31st day of December, 1890, may exchange
the same for the bonds issued under the provisions of this act
at no less than their face or par value and the accrued interest at the time of exchange; but no indebtedness shall be
redeemed at more than its face value and any interest that
may be due thereon."
It seems, however, that the existing legislation upon the
subject was not deemed adequate by the territorial legislature, sitice in 1895 it adopted a memorial, (Laws of 1895, p.
148,) to the effect that, under various acts of the assembly, the
counties were authorized -to and did issue railroad aid bonds,
which were sold in the open market at their face value, and
were then held at home and abroad by bona fide purchasers;
that the validity -of these bonds, though questioned, was
acknowledged by the payment of interest thereon; that a
repudiation of the same would work a great hardship to the
holders and affect the credit of the Territory, and therefore
the general assembly urged upon Congress the propriety of
passing such curative legislation as would protect the holders
of all bonds issued under authority of its acts, the validity of
which had been acknowledged, and relieve the people from
"SEC'TIoN

UTTER v. FRANKLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

the disastrous effects of repudiation. The memorial is printed
in full in the margin,' and in construing the act of Congress
passed in response thereto it may probably be considered as
1

IM ORIAL.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled:
Your memorialists, the legislative assembly of the Territory of Arizona,
beg leave to submit to your honorable bodies; that Whereas, under various acts of the legislative assembly of the Territory
of Arizona, certain of the counties of the Territory were authorized to
issue In aid of railroads and other quasi public improvements and did
under such acts issue bonds, which said bonds were sold in open market,
-in most instances at their face value, and are now held at home and abroad
by persons who, in good faith, invested their money in the same, and, save
and except such knowledge as the law imputes to the holder of bonds
Issued under authorized acts, are holders of the same; and
Whereas the validity of these bonds for many years after their issuance
was unquestioned, and acknowledged by the payment of the interest thereon as it fell due; and
Whereas there has recently been raised a question as to whether these
acts of the legislative assembly were valid under the organic law of the
Territory, vihich had led to movement looking to the repudiation of the
Indebtedness created under and by virtue of such acts; and
Whereaswe believe that such repudiation would, under the circumstances,
work great wrong aud hardship to the holders of such bonds, and at the
same time seriously affect the credit and standing of our people for honesty
and fair dealing and bring us Into disrepute:
Therefore we most strongly urge upon your most honorable bodies the
propriety and justice of passing such curative and remedial legislation as
will protect the holders of all bonds issued under the authority of acts of
the legislative assembly, the lalidity of which has heretofore been acknowledged, and that you further legislate as to protect all innocent parties having entered into contracts iesulting from inducements offered by
our territorial legislation, and relieve the people of the Territory from the
disastrous effects that must necessarily follow any repudiation of good faith
on the part of the Territory, and that you may so further legislate as to
validate all acts of the legislative assembly of the Territory which have
held out inducements for the investment of capital within the Territory,
and which have led to the investment of large sums of money in enterprises directly contributing to the development and growth of the Territory, and thus relieve the honest people of the Territory from the disastrous
effects that must necessarily follow any violation of good faith on the part
of our people.
Resolved, That our delegate to Congress be, and he is hereby, instructed

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

bearing upon the intention of Congress and the exigencies the
act was designed to meet.
In compliance With this memorial Congress on June 6,
1896, 29 Stat. 262, c. 339, passed an act extending the provisions of the act of June 25, 1890, and the amendatory act of
1892, (not here in- question,) the flrst section of which provided that the above acts "are hereby amended and extended
so as to authorize the funding of all outstanding obligations
of said Territory, and the counties, municipalities and school
districts. thereof, as provided in the act of Congress approved
June 25, 1890, until January 1, 1897, and all outstanding
bonds, warrants and other evidences of indebtedness of the.
Territory of Arizona, and the counties, municipalities and
school districts thereof, heretofore authorized by legislative
enactments of said Territory bearing a higher rate of interest
than is authorized by the aforesaid funding act approved June
25, 1890, and which said bonds, warrants and other evidences
of indebtedness have been sold or exchanged in good faith in
compliance with the terms of the acts of the legislature by
which they were authorized, shall be funded with the interest
thereon which has accrued and may accrue -until funded into
the lower interest-bearing bonds as provided by this act.
"SEc. 2. That all bonds and other evidences of indebtedness heretofore .funded by fhe loan commission of Arizona
under the provisions of the act of Congress approved June
25, 1890, and the act amendatory thereof and supplemental
thereto approved August 3, 1894, are hereby declared to be
valid and legal for the purposes for which they were issued
and funded; and all bonds and other evidences of indebtedness heretofore issued under the authority 6f the legislature
-of-said Territory, as hereinbefore authorized to be funded,
are hereby confirmed, approved and validated, and may be
funded as in this act provided until January 1, 189
P.rovided, That nothing in this act shall be so construed as to
to use all honorable means to bring this subject to the earnest consideration
of Congress; that the secretary of the Territory be, and he is hereby, requested to transmit a copy of the foregoing to each house of Congress and
,to our delegate in Congress.

UTTER v. FRAINKLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

make the government of the United States liable or responsible for the payment of any of said bonds, warrants, or othdr
evidences of indebtedness by this act approved, confirmed and
made. valid, and authorized to be funded."
This is the Act upon which the relators place their chief
reliance. Its evident purpose was to authorize the funding
of all ou.ttanding bonds of the Territory, and its municipalities, which had been authorized by legislative,enactments,
whether lawful or not, provided such bonds had been "sold
or exchanged in good faith and in compliance with the terms
of the act of the legislature by which they were authorized."
The second section deals with the original bonds which had
not been theretofore funded, and provides that all such as had
been theretofore issued under the authority of the legislature,
and which by the first section were authorized to be funded,
should be confirmed, approved and validated, and might be
funded until January 1, 1897.
We think, it was within the power of Congress to validate
these bonds. Their only defect was that they had been. issued
in excess of the powers conferred upon the territorial municipalities by the act of June 8, 1878. There was nothing at
that time to have prevented Congress from authorizing such
municipalities to issue bonds in aid of rhilways, and that
which Congress could have originally authorized it might
subsequently confirm and ratify. This court has repeatedly
held that Congress has full legislative power over the Territories, as full as that which a state legislature has over its
municipal corporations.
American Ins. Co. v. Canter, 1 Pet.
511 ; National Bank v. Yanktoh County, 101 U. S. 129.
Curative st*tutes of this kind are by no means unknown
in Federal legislation. Thus, in ]iational Bank v. Yankton County, supra, this court sustained an act of 'Congress
nullifying a legislative act of the Territory of Dakota authorizing the issue of railway bonds, but validating action
theretofore taken by the county voting subscription to a
certain railroad company, holding it to be "equivalent to a
direct grant of power by dongress to thle county to issue the
bonds in dispute."
In Tiompson v. Perrine,103 U. S. 806,

421 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

we also sustained a similar act of the State of New York
ratifying and confiriiing the action of commissioners in issuing similar bonds. In Read v. Plattmouth, 107 U. S. 568,
a similar ruling was made with regard to an act of the legislature of Nebraska validating an issue of bonds by the city
of Plattsmouth for the purpose of raising money to construct
a high school building. See also New Orleans v. Clark, 95
U. S. 644; Grenada County v. Brogden, 112 U. S. 261; Otoe
County v. Baldwin, 111 U. S. 1; 1 Dillon Municipal Corporations, ยง 544; Cooley's Const. Lim. 6th ed. 456; Bolles v.
B-rimjteld, 120 U. S. 759; Anderson v. Santa Anna, 116 U. S.
. 356; Dentzel v. TWoldie, 30 California, 138, 145.
The fact that this court had held the original Pima County
bonds invalid does not affect the question. They were invalid
because there was no power to issue them. They were made
valid by such power being subsequently given, and it makes
no possible difference that they had been declared to be void
under the power originally given. The judgment in that
case was res adjudicata only of the issues then presented,
of the facts as they then appeared, and of the legislation
then existing.
Nor was the act intended to be confined to the outstanding
legal indebtedness of the county. The first section. of the act
requires the funding of all outstanding obligations of said
Territory and its municipalities, and all outstanding bonds,
etc., of the Territory and its municipalities, "heretofore an.thorized by legislative enactments of said Territory, bearing
a higher rate of interest than is authorized by the aforesaid
funding act, approved June 5, 1890," which -said bonds, etc.,
"have been sold or exchanged in good faith in compliance
with the terms of- the acts of the -legislature by which they
were authorized;" and the second section confirms, approve6
and validates all bonds and other evidences of indebtedness
theretofore issued tinder the authority of the legislature, and
authorized to be funded by the first section, and declares that
they "may be funded, as in-this act provided, until January1, 1897." Construifig this in the light of the surrounding
circumstances, and, particularly, in view of the memorial, it

CAPITAL BANK v. CADIZ BANK.

425

Syllabus.

is entirely clear that it was intended to apply to bonds'issued
under authority of the legislature, and purporting oh their
face to be legal obligations of the county, whether in fact
legal or not; and to put the matter still further beyond question, they are expressly declared to be legal and valid. It
is true that, by the tenth section of the act, of Congress of
June 25, 1890, the loan commissioners were authorized to
refund municipal bonds "upon the official demand of said
authorities" of the municipalities, but there is no limitation
of that kind in section seven of the territorial funding act
of March 19, 1891, which declares that "any person holding
bonds, etc., .
.
may exchange the same for the bonds
issued under the provisions of this act at not less than.tbeir
face or par value and the accrued interest at the time of the
exchange."
In addition to this, however, the act of Congress of June 6,
1896, dechred that all the- outstanding bonds, wariants and
other evidences of indebtedness of the Territory and its
municipalities shall be funded with the interest t.hereon, etc.
We are, therefore, of opinion that it was made the duty
of the loan commissioners by these acts to fund the bonds in
question, and that
The order of the Szipreme -Court of the Territory must be
reversed, and the case remanded to that court for further
.proceeding8not inconsistent with the opinion of this court.

CAPITAL NATIONAL BANK OF LINCOLN -v. FIRST
NATIONAL BANK OF CADIZ.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 72. .Argued December 2, 5, 1898. -Decided

January 3, 1899.

A writ of error from this court to revise the judgment of a state court
can only be .maintained when within the purview of section 709 of the
Revised Statutes.
If the d~n!al by the state court of a right under a statute of the United

