BLAKE v. INUCLU-NG.
Syllabus.

simply in harmony with the decrees of the Federal court, and
in no manner questions their force or efficacy.
The jurisdiction of the state court is therefore clear, and the
judgment of the Supreme Court, of Louisiana is
Afftmed.

BLAKE v. MOLUNG.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 6: Submitted November 8,189T. -Decided

December 12, 1893.

Chapter 31 of the acts of Tennessee of 1877, entitled "An act to declare
the terms on which foreign corporations organized for mining or manufacturing purposes may carry on their business, and purchase, hold and
convey real and personal property in this State," provided that corporations organized under the laws of other States and countries, for purposes named in the act, might carry on within that State the business
authorized by their respective charters, but that " creditors who may be
residents of this State shall have a priority in the distribution of assets,
or subjection of the same, or any part thereof, to the payment of debts
over all simple contract creditors, being residents of any other country
or countries, and also over mortgage or judgment creditors, for all
debts, engagements and contracts which were made or owing by the said
corporations previous to the filing and registration of such valid mortgages, or the rendition of such valid judgments." Reld,that, as the litigation proceeded on the theory that plaintiffs in error were citizens of
Ohio, Where they resided, did business, and had offices, that question
could not nowbe considered; and as the manifest purpose of the act was to
give to all Tennessee creditors priority over all creditors residing out of
that State, without reference to the question whether they were citizens
or only residents in some other State or country, the act must be held
to infringe rights secured to the plaintiffs in error, citizens of Ohio, by
the provision of Sec. 2 of Art. IV of the Constitution declaring that
the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States, although, generally speaking, the
State has the power to prescribe the conditions upon which foreign
corporations may enter its territory for purposes of business.
It is not in the power of one State, when establishing regulations for the
conduct of private business of a particular kind, to give its own citizens
essential privileges, connected with that business, which it denies to
citizens of other States.
When the general property and assets of a private corporation, lawfully
doing business in a State, are in course of administration by the courts

. OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.
of said State, creditors who are citizens of other States are entitled,
under the Constitution of the United States, to stand upon the sane
plane with creditors of like class who are citizens of such State, and cannot be denied equality of.right simply because they do not reside in that
State, but are citizens residing in other States of the Union.
While the members of a corporation are, for purpose of suit by or against
it in the courts of the United Sthtes, to be conclusively presumed to be
citizens of the State creating it,-the corporation itself is not a citizen
within the meaning of the provision of the Constitution that the citizens
of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens
in the several States.
The said statute of Tennessee, so far as it subordinates the claims of
private business corporations not within the jurisdiction of that State
(although such private corporations may be creditors of a corporation
doing business within the State under the authority of that statute) to
the claims against the latter corporation of creditors residing in Ten*-nessee, is not a denial of the equal protection of the laws secured by the
Fourteenth Amendment to persons within the jurisdiction of the State,
however unjust such a regulation may be deemed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. .eber J. May and 2Mr. Yully 1. Cornick for plaintiffs
in error.

.Mr.John WF Green for defendants in error.
.Mr.-Venry H. Ingersoll for Clarke & Reid.
.Mr. Charles Seymour for the London Trust Compaiy.
Kit. JUSTICE 11RLw

delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ of error brings up for review a final judgment of
the Supreme Court of Tennessee sustaining the validity of
certain provisions of a statute of that State passed March 19,
1877, c. 31.
The chief object of the statute was declared to be to secure
the development of the mineral resources of the State and to
facilitate the introduction of foreign capital. § 7.
It provides, among other things, that "corporations chartered or organized under the laws of other States or countries,
for the. purpose of mining ores or coals, or of quarrying stones

BLAKE v. McCLUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

or minerals, of transporting the same, or erecting, purchasing
or carrying on works for the manufacture of metals, or of
any articles made of or from metal, timber, cotton or wool,
or of building dwelling houses for their workmen and others,
or gas works, or water works, or other appliances designed for
the promotion of health, good order or general utility, in connection with such mines, manufactories and dwelling houses,
may become incorporated in this State, and may carry on in
this State the business authorized by their respective charters,
or the articles under which they are or may be orgafiized, and
may enjoy the rights and do the things therein specified, upon
the terms and conditions, and in the manner and under the
limitation herein declared." § 1.
The second section provides for the filing in the office of
the Secretary of State by "each and every corporation created
or organized under or by virtue of any government other than.
that of this State, of the character named in the first section
of this act, desiring to carry on its business" in the State, of
a copy of its charter or articles of association, and the recording of an abstract of the same in the office of the register of
each county in which the corporation proposes to carry on its
business or to acquite any lands. § 2.
The third section declares that "such corporations shall be
deemed and taken to be corporations of this State, and shall
be subject to the jurisdictions of the courts of this State, and
may sue and be sued therein in the mode and manner that is,
or may be, by law directed in the case of corporations created
or organized under the laws of this State." § 3.
The fifth section provides:
"§ 5. That the corporations, and the property of all corporations coming under the provisions of this act, shall be liable
for all the debts, liabilities and engagements of the said corporations, to be enforced in the manner provided by law, for
the application of the property of natural persons to the payment of their debts, engagements and contracts. Nevertheless, 'creditors who may be P'esidents of this State shall have a
priorityin the di8tribution of as8et8, or subjection of the same,
or any part thereof, to the payment of debts over all simple
VOL. CLXII-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

contract creditors, being residents of any other country or
countries,and also over mortgage or judgment creditors, fdr
all debts, engagements and contracts which were made or
owing by the said corporations previous to the filing and registration of such valid mortgages, or the rendition of such valid
judgments. But all such mortgages and judgments shall be
valid, and shall constitute a prior lien on the property on which
they are or may be charged as against all debts which may be
incurred subsequent to the date of their registration or rendition. The said corporations shall be liable to taxation in all
respects the same as natural persons resident in this State,
and the property of its citizens is or inay be liable to taxation,
but to no higher taxation, nor to any other mode of valuation, for the purpose of taxation; an& the said corporations
shall be entitled to all such exemptions from taxation which
are now,or may be hereafter granted to citizens or corporations
for the purpose of encouraging manufacturers in this State, or
othertise." Acts of Tennessee 1877, -p.4.
The case made by the record is substantially as follows:
The Embreeville Freehold Land, Iron and Railway Compary, Limited -to be hereafter called the Embreeville Corn"pany- was a corporation organized under the laws of Great
Britain and Ireland for mining and manufacturing purposes.
In 1890 it registered its charter under the provisions of the
above statute, and established a manager's office in Tennessee.
It purchased property and did a mining and manufacturing
business there, transacting its affairs in this country at and
from its Tennessee office.
On the 20th day of June, 1893, C. M. McClung & Co. and
others filed an original general creditors' bill in the Chancery
Court of Washington County, Tennessee, against this company
and others, alleging its insolvency and default in meeting and
discharging its current obligations; charging that it.had made
a conveyance in trust of certain personal property in fraud of
the rights of its other creditors, and asking the appointment
of a receiver and the administration of its affairs as au insolvent corporation. The court took jurisdiction of the corporation, sustained the bill as a general creditors' bill, appointed

BLAKE v. McCLUNG.
Opinion of the Court,

a receiver of its property in Tennessee, administered its affairs
in that State, and passed a decree adjudicating the rights and
priorities of certain creditors.
Ko question is made in respect to the amount due to any
one of the creditors whose claims were presented.
The company maintained its home office in London, its
managing director resided there, and after this suit was instituted liquidation under the Companies' Acts of Great
Britain was there ordered and begun.
There were holders of debentures executed by the British
company whose claims were not specifically adjudicated in
the decree below. The original debenture issue amounted to
$500,000, and another issue, subsequent in time, and in respect
of which priority in right was claimed, amounted to $125,000.
All the holders 'of those issues are non-residents of Tennessee
and of the United States. There was also a general trade
indebtedness aggregating about $90,000 due by the company
to residents of Great Britain. Those claims were specifically
adjudicated by the decree.
Among the creditors of the company at the time this suit
was instituted were the plaintiffs in error, namely: C. G. Blake,
whose residence and place of business was in Ohio; Rogers,
Brown & Company, the members of which also resided in
Ohio and carried on business in that State; and the Hull Coal
& Coke Company, a corporation of Virginia. In the intervening petitions filed by those creditors it was averred that
the plaintiffs in the general creditor's bill, residents of Tennessee, claimed priority of right in the distribution of the assets
of the insolvent corporation over other creditors of the corporation "citizens of the United States, but not of the State of
Tennessee;" and that the said statute was unconstitutional so
far as it gave preferences and benefits to the plaintiffs or other,
citizens of Tennessee over the petitioners or other citizens of
the United States.
By the final decree of the Chancery Court of Washington
County, it was, among other things, adjudged that the act of
1871 was constitutional; that all of the creditors of the Embreeville Company residing in Tennessee were entitled to priority

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of satisfaction out of its assets (after the payment out of the proceeds of the real estate of the claim of the Pittsburgh Iron &
Steel Engineering Company) as against its other creditors who
were "residents and citizens of other States of the United States
or other countries;" that the creditors who were "ciizen8 of

other States of the United States, and who contracted with the
company as located and doing business in Tennessee, are entitled to share ratably in its assets, being administered in this
cause next after the payment of the Pittsburgh Iron & Steel
Engineering Company and the Tennessee creditors."
Upon appeal to the Chancery Court of Appeals the decree
of the Chancery Court was reversed in certain particulars. In
the findings of the Chancery Court of Appeals it was stated
that the Chancery Court of Washington County adjudged,
among other things, vhat "under the act of 1877 (which was
adjudged constitutional) all the creditors of said Embreeville
Company residing in Tennessee are entitled to priority of satisfaction out of the assets of the Embreeville Company (after
the payment out of the proceeds of the real estate of the claim
of the Pittsburgh Iron & Steel Engineering Co.) as against the
other creditors of said company who are non-residents and citizens of other States of the United States or other countries;
that the other creditors of the Embreeville Company who are
citizens of other States of the United States, and who contracted with the said Embreeville Company as located and
doing business in the State of Tennessee, are entitled to share
ratably in the assets of the defendant Embreeville Company
being administered in this cause after the payment of the
Pittsburgh Iron & Steel Engineering Company and the Tennessee creditors (except the coke stopped in transita)." And
the decree in the Chancery Court of Appeals contained, among
other provisions, the following: "That all of the holders and
owners of the debenture bonds of the company are simple
contract creditors of said company, and stand upon the same
.footing in reference to the distribution of the assets of tho
company as all other of its creditors residing out of the State
of Tennessee;" and that (Ithe portion of the chancellor's
decree giving priority of payment to such of the creditors of

BLAKE v. McCLUNGG.
Opinion of the Court.

said company who reside in the United States -of America,
but not in the State of Tennessee, and to such creditors now
residents of Tennessee who dealt with the company in relation
to its Tennessee office, over all alien creditors of said company, be, and the same is hereby, reversed, it being here
adjudged that all the creditors of said company residing out
of the State of Tennessee must share equally and ratably in
the distribution of the funds of said company after tMe Tennessee oreditors 8hal have been paid -in full."
The cause was carried to the Supreme Court of Tennessee,
and so far as the plaintiffs in error are concerned was heard
in that court upon appeal from the Chancery Court of Appeals,
as well as upon writs of error to the Chancery Court.
It was adjudged by the Supreme Court of the State that
the act of March 19, 1877, was in all respects a valid enactment, and"not in contravention of paragraph 2 of Article IV
-or of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States, nor in contravention of any other provision of
the National Constitution; that all of the holders and owners
of the debenture bonds of the Embreeville Company were
simple contract creditors of the company, and stood upon the
same footing with reference to the distribution of its assets-as
all of its other-creditors who "reside out of the State of Tennessee," whether they be residents of other States or of the.
Kingdom of Great Britain; that all of the creditors of the
Embreeville Company "who resided in the State of Tennessee" are entitled to priority of payment out of all of the assets
of said company, both real and personal, over all of the other
creditors of said company who do not reside in the State of
Tennessee, whether they be residents of other States of the
United States or of the Kingdom of Great Britain; that all
of the creditors of the Embreeville Freehold Land, Iron &
Railway Company who reside out of the State of Tennessee;
whether they reside in other States of the United States or in
the Kingdom of Great Britain, have the right and must share
equally and ratably in the distribution of said funds of the said
company after the residents of the State of Tennessee shall
have been first paid in full.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiffs in error contend that the judgment of the
state court, based upon the statute, denies to them rights
secured by the, second section of the Fourth Article of the
Constitution of the United States providing that "the citizens
of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities
of citizens' in the several States," as well as by the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment, declaring that no State
shall "deprive any person of life, liberty or property without
due process of law," nor "deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
We have seen that by the third section of the Tennessee
statute corporations organized under the laws of other
States or countries, and which complied with the provisions
of the statute, were to be deemed and iaken to be corporations of that State; and by the fifth section it is declared, in
respect of the property of corporations doing business in
Tennessee under the provisions of the statute, that creditors
-who are residents of that State shall have a priority in the
distribution of assets, or the subjection of the same, or any
part thereof, to the payment of debts, over all simple contract
creditors, 'being residents of any other country or countries.
The suggestion is made that as the statute refers only to
residents," there is no occasion to consider whether it i
repugnant to the provision of the, National Constitution relating to citizens. We cannot accede to this view. The record
shows that the litigation proceeded throughout upon the
theory that the plaintiffs in error, Blake and the persons composing the firm of Rogers, Brown & Co., were citizens of Ohio,
.in
Which State they resided, transacted business and had their
offices, and that the plaintiff in error, the Hull Coal and Coke
Company, was a corporation 6f Virginia. The intervening
petition of the individual plaintiffs in error, as we have seen,
states that they were residents of Ohio, engaged in business
in that State, their residence, offices and places of business
being at the city of Cincinnati, and that they were citizens of
the United States, and not citizens of Tennessee. Although
these allegations might not be sufficient to showthat those
parties were citizens of Ohio within the meaning of the statute

BLAKE v. McCLUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

regulating the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United
States, (Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S. 64:6), they may be accepted
as sufficient for that purpose in the present case, no question
having been made in the state court that the individual
plaintiffs in error were not citizens but only residents of Ohio.
Looking at the purpose and scope of the Tennessee statute, it
is plain that the words "residents of this State" refer to those
whose residence in Tennessee was such as indicated that their
permanent h6me or habitation was there, without any present
intention of removing therefrom, and having the intention,
when absent from that State, to return thereto; such residence
as appertained to or inhered in citizenship. And the words,
in the same statute, "residents of any other country or countries" refer to those whose respective habitations were not
in Tennessee, but who were citizens, not simply residents, of
some other State or country. It is impossible to believe that
the statue was intended to apply to creditors of whom it could
be said that they were only residents of other States, but not
to creditors who were citizens of such States. The State did
not intend to place creditors, citizens of other States, upon
an equality with creditors, citizens of Tennessee, and to
give priority only to Tennessee creditors over creditors who
resided in, but were not citizens of, other States. The manifest purpose was to give to all Tennessee creditors priority
over all creditors residing out of that State, whether the latter
were citizens or only residents of some other State or country.
Any other interpretation of the statute would defeat the object for which it was enacted. We must therefore consider
whether the statute infringes rights secured to the plaintiffs
in error, citizens of Ohio, by the provision of the second sec:
tion of Article IV of the Constitution of the United States
declaring that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to
all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States.
Beyond question, a State may through judicial proceedings
take possession of the assets of an insolvent foreign corporation within its limits, and distribute such assets or their proceeds among creditors according to their respective rights.
But may it exclude citizens of other States from such distri-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

bution until the claims of its own citizens shall have been first
satisfied? In the administration of the property of an insolvent foreign corporation by the courts of the State in which
it is doing business, will the Constitution of the United States
permit discrimination against individual creditors of "such corporations because of their being citizens of other States, and
not citizens of the State in which such administration occurs?
These questions are presented for our determination. Let us
see how far they have been answered by the former decisions
of this court.
This court has never undertaken to give any exact or comprehensive definition of the words "privileges and immunities" in Article IV of the Constitution of the United States.
Referring to this clause, Mr. Justice Curtis, speaking for the
court in Conner v. Elliott, 18 How. 591, 593, said: "We do
not deem it needful to attempt to define the meaning of the
word privileges in this clause of the Constitution. It is safer,
and more in accordance with the duty of a judicial tribunal,
to leave its meaning to be determined, in each case, upon a
view of the particular rights asserted and denied therein.
And espe ially is this true when we are dealing with so broad
a provision, involving matters not only of great delicacy and
importance, but which are of such a character that an.y merely
abstract definition could scarcely be correct; and a failure to
make it so would certainly produce mischief." lNevertheless,
what has been said by this anid other courts upon the general
subject will assist us in determining the particular questions
now pressed upon our attention.
One of the leading cases in which the general question has
been examined is Corfleld v. Coryell, decided by Mr. Justice
Washington at the circuit. He said: "The inquiry is, what
are the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several
States? We feel no hesitation in confining these expressions
to those privileges and immunities which are, in their nature,
fundamental; which belong, of right, to the citizens of all
free governments, and which have, at all times, been enjoyed
by the citizens of the several States which compose this Union
from the time of their becoming free, independent and soy-

BLAKE v. McOLUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

ereign. What these fundamental principles are, it would
perhaps be more tedious than difficult to enumerate. They
may, however, be comprehended under the following general
heads: protection by the Government; the enjoyment of life
and liberty, with the right to acquire and possess property of
every kind, and to pursue and obtain happiness and safety;
subject nevertheless to such restraints as the Government may
justly prescribe for the general good of the whole. The right
of a citizen ot one State to pass through or to reside in any
other State for the purposes of trade, agriculture, professional
pursuits or otherwise; to claim the benefit of the writ of
hlahea8 corpu8; to institute and maintain actions of any kind
in the courts of the State; to take, hold and dispose of property, either real or personal; and an exemption from higher
taxes or impositions than are paid by the other citizens of the
State, may be mentioned as some of the particular privileges
and immunities of citizens, which are clearly embraced by the
general description of privileges deemed to be fundamental;
to which may be added, the elective franchise, as regulated
and established by the laws or constitution of the State in
which it is to be exercised. These, and many others which
might be mentioned, are, strictly speaking, privileges and
immunities, and the enjoyment of them by the citizens of
each State in every other State was manifestly calculated (to
use the expression of the preamble to the corresponding provision in the old Articles of Confederation) 'the better to
secure and perpetuate mutual friendship and intercourse
among the people of the different States of the Union."'
4 Wash. 0. 0. 371, 380.
These observations of- Mr. Justice Washington were made
in a case involving the validity of a statute of New Jersey
regulating the taking of oysters and shells on banks or beds
within that State, and which excluded inhabitants and residents of other States from the privilege of taking or gathering clams, oysters or shells on any of the -rivers, bays or
waters in, New Jerser, not wholly owned by some person
residing in the State. The statute was sustained upon the
ground that it only regulated the use of the common property

OCTOBER TER f, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of the citizens of New Jersey, which could not be enjoyed by
others without the tacit consent, or the express permission
of-the sovereign having the power to regulate its use. The
court said: "The oyster beds belonging to a State .may be
abundantly sufficient for the use of the citizens of that State,
but might be totally exhausted and destroyed if the legislature could not so regulate the use of them as to exclude.the
citizens of the other States from taking them, except under
such limitations and restrictions as the laws may prescribe.",
Upon these grounds rests the decision in .McCready v. Virginia, 94 T. S. 391, 395, sustaining a, statute of Virginia
prohibiting the citizens of other States from planting oysters
in a river in that State where the tide ebbed and flowed.
Chief Justice Waite, speaking for the court in that case, said:
"These, [the fisheries of the State] remain under the exclusive
control of the State, which has consequently the right, in its
discretion, to appropriate its tide waters and their beds to be
used by its people as a common for taking and cultivating
fish, so far as it may be done without obstructing navigation.
Such an appropriation is in effect nothing more than a regulation of the use by the people of their common property. The
right which the people'of the State thus acquire comes not
from their citizenship alone, but from their citizenship and*
property combined. It is in fact a property right, and not a
mere. privilege or immunity of citizenship." Consequently,
the decision was that the citizens of one State were not
invested by the Constitution of the United States "with any
interest in the common property of the citizens of another
State."
In Paul v. 3irginia,8 Wall. 168, 180, the court observed
that "it was undoubtedly the object of the clause in question
to place the citizens of each State upon the same footing with
citizens of other States, so far as the advantages resulting from
citizenship in those States are concerned. It relieves them
from 'the disabilities of alienage in other States; it inhibits
discriminating legislation against them by other States; it
gives them the right of free ingress into other States, and
egress from them; it insures to them in other States the same

BLAKE w. McCLUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

freedom possessed by the citizens of those States in the acquisition and enjoyment of property and in the pursuit of happiness; and it secures to them in other States the equal
protection of their laws. It has been justly said that no
provision in the Constitution has tended so strongly to constitute the citizens of the United States one people as this.
Lemmom v. The People, 20 N. Y. 607. Indeed, without some
provision of the kind, removing.from the citizens of each State
the disabilitie6.of alienage in the other States, and giving them
equality of privilege with citizens of those States, the Republic
would have constituted little more than a league of States; it
would not have constituted the Union which now exists." -.
Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418, 430, involved the validity
of a statute of Maryland requiring all traders, not being permanent residents of the State, to take out licenses for the Sale of
goods, wares or merchandise in Maryland, other than agricultural products and articles there manufactured. This court
said: "Attempt will not be made to define the words ' privileges and immunities,' or to specify the rights which -they
are intended to secure and protect, beyond what may be
necessary to the decision of the case before the court. Beyond doubt those words are words of very comprehensive
meaning, but it will be sufficient to say that the clause plainly
and unmistakably secures and protects the right of a, citizen
of one State to pass into any other State of the Union for the
purpose of engaging in lawful commerce, trade or business
without molestation; to acquire personal property, to take
and hold real estate, to maintain actions in the courts of the
State, and to be exempt from any higher taxes or excises than
are imposed by the State upon its own citizens. Comprehensive as the power of the States is to lay and collect taxes and
excises, it is nevertheless clear, in the judgment of the court,
that the power cannot be exercised to any extent in a manner
forbidden by the Constitution; and inasmuch as the Constitution provides that the citizens of each State shall be entitled
to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several
States, it follows that the defendant might lawfully sell, or
offer or expose for sale, within the district described in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

indictment, any goods which the permanent residents of the
State might sell, or offer or expose for sale in that district,
without being subjected to any higher tax or excise than that
exacted by law of such permanent residents."
In the Slaughter-house cases, 16 Wall. 36, 77, the court,
referring to what was said in Paul v. VTirginia, above cited,
in reference to the scope and meaning of section 2 of Article
IV of the Constitution, said: "The constitutional provision
there alluded to did not create those rights which it called
privileges and immunities of citizens of the States. It threw
around them in that clause no security for the citizen of the
State in which they were claimed or exercised. Nor did it
profess to control the power of the state governments over
the rights of its own citizens. Its sole purpose was to declare
to the several States, that whatever those rights, as you grant
or establish them to your own citizens, or as you limit or
qualify, or impose restrictions on their exercise, the same, neither
more nor less, shall be the measure of the rights of citizens of
other States within your jurisdiction."
In Cole v. -Ounningha, 133 U. S. 107, 113, 114, this court
cited with a-pp'rova:lthe language of Justice Story, in his Commentaries on the Constitution, to the effect that the object of
the constitutional guarantee was to confer on the citizens of
the several States "1a general citizenship, and to communicate
all the privileges and immunities which the citizens of the
same State would be entitled to under like circumstances, and
this includes the right to institute actions."
These principles have not been modified by any subsequent
decision of this court.
The foundation upon which the above cases rest cannot
however stand, if it be adjudged to be in the power of one
State, when establishing regulations for the conduct of private
business of a particular kind, to give its own citizens essential
privileges connected with that business which it denies to citizens of other States. By the statute in question the British
company was to be deemed and taken to be a corporation of
Tennessee, with authority to carry on its business in that
State. It was the right of citizens of Tennessee to deal with

BLAKE v. McOLUNG.
Opiniop of the Court.

it, as it was their right to deal with corporations created by
Tennessee. And it was equally the right of citizens of other
States to deal with that corporation. The State did not assume,
to declare, even if it could legally have declared, that that
company, being admitted to do business in Tennessee, should
transact business only with citizens of Tennessee or should
not transact business with citizens of other* States. No one
would question the right of the individual plaintiffs in error,
although not .residents of Tennessee, to sell their goods to
that corporation upon such terms in respect of payment as
might be agreed upon, and to ship them to the corporation at
its place of business in that State. But the enjoyment of
these rights is materially obstructed by the statute in question; for that statute, by its necessary operation, excludes
citizens of other States from transacting business with that
corporation upon terms of equality with citizens of Tennessee.
By force of the statute alone, citizens of other States, if they
contracted at all with the British corporation, must have done
so subject to the onerous condition that if the corporation became insolvent its assets in Tennessee should first be applied
to meet its obligations to residents of that State, although
liability for its debts and engagements was "to be enforced in
the manner provided by law for the application of the property of natural persons to the payment of their debts, engagements and contracts." But, clearly, the State could not in
that mode secure exclusive privileges to its own citizens in
matters of business. If a State should attempt, by statute
regulating the distribution of the property of insolvent individuals among their creditors, to give priority to the claims of
such individual creditors as were citizens of that State over
the claims of individual creditors, citizens of other States, such
legislation would be repugnant to the Constitution upon the
ground that it withheld from citizens of other States as such,
and because they were such, privileges granted to citizens of
the State enacting it. Can a different principle apply, as
between individual citizens of the several States, when the
assets to be distributed are the assets of an insolvent private
corporation lawfully engaged in business and having the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the. Court.

power to contract with citizens residing in States other than
the one in which it is located?
It is an established rule of equity that when a corporation
becomes insolvent it is so far civilly dead that its property
may be administered as a trust fund for the bendfit of its
stockholders and creditors, (Graham v. Railroad Co., 102 U. S.
148, 161) -not simply of stockholders and creditors residing
in a particular State, but all stockholders and creditors of
whatever State they may be citizens. In Wabash, St. Louis
&c. Railway Co. v. 11am, 114 U. S. 587, 594, it was said that
the property of a corporation was a trust fund for the payment of its debts, in the sense that when the corporation was
lawfully dissolved and all its business wound up, or when it
was insolvent, all its creditors were entitled in equity to have
their debts paid out of the corporate property before any
In lollins
distribution thereof among the stockholders.
v. Brier~feld Coal & Iron Co., 150 U. S. 371, 385, it was
observed that a private corporation, when it becomes insolvent,
holds its assets subject to somewhat the same kind of equitable
lien and trust in favor of its creditors that exists in favor of
the creditors of a partnership after becoming insolvent, and
that in such case a lien and trust will be enforced by a court
of equity in favor of creditors. These principles obtain, no
doubt, in Tennessee, and will be applied by its courts in all
appropriate cases between citizens of that State, without making any distinction between them: Yet the courts of that
State are forbidden, by the statute in question, to recognize
the right in equity of citizens residing in other States to participate upon terms of equality with citizens of Tennessee in
the distribution of the assets of an insolvent foreign corporation lawfully doing business in that State.
We hold such discrimination against citizens of other States
to be repugnant to the second section of the Fourth Article
of the Constitution of the United States, although, generally
speaking, the State has the power to prescribe the conditions
upon which foreign corporations may enter its territory for
purposes of business. Such a power cannot be exerted with
the effect of defeating or impairing rights secured to citizens

BLAKE v. McCLUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

of the several States by the supreme law of the land. Indeed,
all the powers possessed by a State must be exercised consistently with the privileges and immunities granted or protected
by the Constitution of the United States.
In Lafayette n8. Co. v. Fr"ench, 18 How. 400, 407, Mr. Justice Curtis, speaking for this court, said: "A corporation
created by Indiana can transact business in Ohio only with
the consent, expressed or implied, of the latter State. This
consent may be accompanied by such conditions as Ohio may
think fit to impose; and these conditions must be'deemed
valid and effectual by other States and by this court, provided
they are not repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the
United States, or inconsistent with those rules of public law
which secure the jurisdiction and authority of each. State
from encroachment by all others, or that principle of natural
justice which forbids condemnation without opportunity for
defence." It was accordingly adjudged in Barron v. Burnside, 121 U. S.186, 200, that an Iowa statute requiring every
foreign corporation named in it, as a condition of obtaining
a license or permit to transact business in that State, to stipulate that it would not remove into the Federal courts suits
that were removable from the state courts under the laws of
the United States, was void because it made the right to do
business under a license or permit dependent upon the surrender by the corporation of a privilege secured to it by the
Constitution. This principle was recognized in Barrow Steam8hip Co. v. Zane, 170 U. S.100, 111, in which, after referring
to the constitutional and statutory provisions defining the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States, this court
said: "The jurisdiction so conferred upon the national courts
cannot be abridged or impaired by any statute of a State.
H77yde v. Stone, 20 Hoi-. 170, 175; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.
466, 516. It has therefore been decided that a statute, which
requires all actions against a county to be brought in a county
court, does not prevent the Circuit Court of the United States
from taking jurisdiction of such an action; Chief Justice
Chase saying that ' no statute limitation of suability can defeat
a jurisdiction given by the Constitution.' Cowles v. Mercer

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

County, 7 Wall. 118, 122; Lincoln County v. Luning, 133
U. S. 529; CiLioot County v. Sherwood, 148 U. S. 529. So
statutes requiring foreign corporations, as a condition of being
permitted to do business within the State, tb stipulate not to
remove into the courts of the United States suits brought
against them in the courts of the State, have been adjudged
to be unconstitutional and void. Home 1ns. Co. v. .More,
20 Wall. 445; Barron v. Burnside, 121 U. S. 186; Southerb P .ac§c
Co.'v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202." See Ducat v.
Chicago, 10 Wall. 410, 415.
We must not be understood as saying that a citizen of one
State is entitled to enjoy in another State every privilege that
may be given in the latter to its own citizens. There are
privileges that may be accorded by a State to its own people
in which citizens of other States may not participate except
in conformity to such reasonable regulations as may be established by the State. For instance, a State cannot forbid citizens of other States from suing in its courts, that right being
enjoyed by its own people; but it may require a noh-resident,
although a citizen of another State, to give bond 'for costs,
although such bond be not required of a resident. Such a
regulation of the internal affairs of a State cannot reasonably
be characterized as hostile to the fundamental rights of citizens of other States. So, a State may, by rule uniform in its
operation as to citizens of the several States, require residence
within its limits for a given time before a citizen of another
State who becomes a resident thereof shall exercise the right
of suffrage or become eligible to office. It has neVer been
supposed that regulations of that character materially interfered with the enjoyment by citizens of each State of the
privileges and immunities secured by the Constitution to citizens of the several States. The Constitution forbids only such
legislation affecting citizens of the respective States as will
substantially or practically put a citizen of one State in a condition of alienage when he is within or when he removes to
another State, or when asserting in another State the rights
that commonly appertain to those who are part of the political
community known as the People of the United States, by and

BLAKE v.

MoCLUNG.

Opinion of the Court.

for whom the Government of the Union was ordained and
established.
Nor must we be understood as saying that a State may
not, by its courts, retain within its limits the assets of a foreign corporation, in order that justice may be done to its own
citizens; nor, by appropriate action of its judicial tribunals,
see to it that its own citizens are not unjustly discriminated
against by reason of the administration in other States of the
assets there of an insolvent corporation doing business within
its limits. For instance, if the Embreeville Company had
property in Virginia at the time of its insolvency, the Tennessee court administering its assets in that State could take
into account what a Virginia creditor, seeking to participate
in the distribution of the company's assets in Tennessee, had
received or would receive from the company's assets in Virginia, and make such order touching the assets of the company
in Tennessee as would protect Tennessee creditors against
wrongful discrimination arising from the particular action
taken in Virginia for the benefit of creditors residing in that
Commonwealth.
It may be appropriate to observe that the objections to the
statute of Tennessee do not necessarily embrace enactments
that are found in some of the States requiring foreign insurance corporations, as a condition of their coming into the
State for purposes of business, to deposit with the state treasurer funds sufficient to secure policy holders in its midst.
Legislation of that character does not present any question of
discrimination against citizens forbidden by the Constitution.
Insurance funds set apart in advance for the benefit of home
policy holders of a foreign insurance company doing business
in the State are a trust fund of a specific kind to be administered for the exclusive benefit of certain persons. Policy
holders in other States know that those particular funds are
segregated from the mass of property owned by the company,
and that they cannot look to them to the prejudice of those
for whose special benefit they were deposited. The present
case is not one of that kind. The statute of Tennessee did
not make it a condition of the right of the British corporation
vor- m~xxu17

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

to come into Tennessee for purposes of business that it should,
at the outset, deposit with the State a fixed amount to stand
exclusively or primarily for the protection of its Tennessee
creditors. It allowed that corporation, after complying with
the terms of the statute, to conduct its business in Tennessee
as it saw fit, and did not attempt to impose any restriction
upon its making contracts with or incurring liabilities to citizens of other States. It permitted that corporation to contract with citizen of other States, and then, in effect, provided
that all such contracts should be subject to the condition (in
case the corporation became insolvent) that creditors residing
in other States should stand aside, in the distribution by the
Tennessee courts of the assets of the corporation, until creditors residing in Tennessee were fully' paid -not out of any
funds or property specifically set aside as a trust fund, and at
the outset put into the custody of the State, for the exclusive
benefit, or for the benefit primarily, of Tennessee creditors,
but-out of whatever assets of any kind the corporation.
might have in that State when insolvency occurred. In othei'
words, so far as Tennessee legis*lation is concerned, while this
corporation could lawfully have contracted with citizens of
other States, those citizens cannot share in its general assets
upon terms of equality with citizens of that State. If such
legislation does not deny to citizens of other States, in respect
of matters growing out of the ordinary transactions of business,
privileges that are accorded to it by citizens of Tennessee, it is
difficult to perceive what legislation would effect that result.
, We adjudge that when the general property and assets of a
private corporation; lawfully doing business in a State, are in
course of administration by, the courts of such State, creditors
who are citizens of other States are entitled, under the Constitution of the United States, to stand upon the same plane
with creditors of like class who are citizens of such State, and
cannot be denied equality of right simply because they do not
reside in that State, but are citizens residing in other States
of the Union. The individual plaintiffs in error were entitled
to contract with this British corporation, lawfully doing business in Tennessee, and deemed and taken to be a corporation

BLAKE v; McCLUNG.
Opinion of -the Court.

of that State; and no rule in the distribution of its assets
among creditors could be applied to them as resident citizens
of Ohio, and because they were not residents of Tennessee,
that was not applied by the courts of Tennessee to creditors
of like character who were citizens of Tennessee.
As to the plaintiff in error, the Hull Coal & Coke Company
of Virginia, different considerations must govern our decision.
It has long been settled that, for purposes of suit by or against
it in the courts of the United States, the members of a corporation are to be conclusively presumed to be citizens of the State
creating such corporation; Louisville, Cincinnati & Charleston
.Railroad Co. v. Letson, 2 How. 497; Covington Drawbridge
Co. v. Shepherd &c.,
20 flow. 227,232; Ohio & .Miss. Railroad
Co. v. Wiheeler, 1 Black, 286, 296; Steamship Co. v. Tugman,
106 U. S. 118, 120; Barrow Steamship Co. v. Zane, 170 U. S.
100 ; and therefore it has been said that a corporation is to be
deemed,.for such purposes, a citizen of the State under whose
laws it was organized. 'But it is equally well settled, and we
now hold, that a corporation is not a citizen within the meaning of the constitutional provision that "the citizens of each
State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of
citizens in the several States." Paul v. Virgii.zia, 8 Wall.
168, 178, 179; Ducat v. Ohicago, 10 Wall. 410,415; -iverpool
ins. Co. v. Massachusetts, 10 Wall. 566, 573. The Virginia
corporation, therefore, cannot invoke that provision for protection against the decree of the state court denying its right
to participate upon terms of equality with Tennessee creditors
in the distribution of the assets of the British corporation in
the hands of the Tennessee court.
Since, however, a corporation is a "person" within t-he
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, (Santa Clara County
v. Southern Pacifc Railroad Co., 118 U. S. 394, 396; Smyth
v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 522,) may not the Virginia corporation
invoke for its protection the clauseof the Amendment declaring that no State shall deprive any person of property without
due process, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws? . We are of opinion that this question must-receive a negative

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

answer. Although this court has adjudged that the prohibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment refer to all the instrumentalities of the State, to its legislative, executive and judicial
authorities, (Exyarte Yirginia, 100 U. S. 339, 346-347; Yidk
T76 v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 373; Scott v. 2le-lReal, 15d: U. S.
34, 45, and COhioago, Burlington co. Railroadv. O]hicago, 166
U. S. 226, 233,) it does not follow that, within the meaning of
that Amendment, the judgment below deprived the Virginia
corporation of property without due process of law, simply
because its claim was subordinated t6 the claims of the Tennessee creditors. That corporation was not, in any legal sense,
deprived of its claim, nor was its right to reach the assets of
the British corporation in other States or countries disputed.
It -was only denied the right to participate upon terms of
equality with Tennessee creditors in the distribution of particular assets of another corporation doing business in that
State. It had notice of the proceedings in the state court,
became a party to those proceedings, and the rights asserted
by it were adjudicated. If the Virginia corporation cannot
invoke the protection of the second section of Article IV of
the Constitution of the United States relating to the privileges
and immunities of citizens in the several States, as its coplaintiffs in error have done, it is because it is not a citizen
within the meaning of that section; and if the state court
erred in its decree in reference to that corporation, the latter
cannot be said to have been thereby deprived of its property
without due process of law within the meaning of the Constitution.
It is equally clear that the Virginia corporation cannot rely
upon the clause declaring that no State shall "deny to any
person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
That.prohibition manifestly relates only to the denial by the
State of equal protection to persons "within its jurisdiction."
Observe, that the prohibition against the deprivation of
property without due process of law is not qualified by the
words "within its jurisdiction," while those words are found
in the succeeding clause relating to the equal protection of the
laws. The court cannot assume that those words were inserted

BLAKE v. McCLUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

without any object, nor is it at liberty to eliminate them from
the Constitution and to interpret the clause in question as if
they were not to be found, in that instrument. Without
attempting to state what is the full import of the words,
"1within its ju'risdiction," it is safe to say that a corporation
not created by Tennessee, -nordoing -business there under conditions that subjected it to process. issuing from the courts of
Tennessee at the instance of suitors, is not, under the above
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, within the jurisdiction
of that State. Certainly, when the statute in question was
enacted the Virginia corporation was not within the jurisdiction of Tennessee. So far as the record discloses, its claim
against the Embreeville Company was on account of coke sold
and shipped from Virginia to the latter corporation at its place
of business in Tennessee. It does not appear to have been
doing business in Tennessee under the statute here involved,
or under any statute that would bring it directly under the
jurisdiction of the courts of Tennessee by service of processon its officers or agents. Nor do we think it came within thie
jurisdiction of Tennessee, within the meaning of the Amendment, simply by presenting its claim in the state court and
thereby becoming a party to this cause. Under any other
interpretation the Fourteenth Amendment would be given a
scope not contemplated, by its framers or by the People, nor
justified by its language. We adjudge that the statute, so far
as it subordinates the claims of private business corporations
not within the jurisdiction of the State of Tennessee, (although
such private corporations may be creditors of a cor poration
doing business in the State under the authority of that statute,)
to the claims against the latter corporation of creditors residing
in Tennessee, is not a denial of the "equal protection of the
laws" secured by the Fourteenth Amendment to persons within
the jurisdiction of the State, however unjust such a regulation
may be deemed.
What may be the effect of the judgment of this court in
the present case upon the rights of creditors not residing in the
United States, it is not necessary to decide. Those creditors
are not before the court on this writ of error.

OCTOBER' TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J., Fuller, C.J.

Dihejinaljudgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee must
be aflirmed as to the Hull Coal & Coke Company, because
it did not deny to that corporation any righit,privilege or
immunity secured to. it by the Constitution of the United
States. (Rev. Slat. § 709.) As to the other plaintift in
error, citizens of Ohio, thejudgment must be reversed, and
the cause r-emanded.for f urtterproceedings not inCol8i8tent with this opinion; and it is so ordered.

MR. JusTio BREWER, with whom MR. CRiEr JUSTICE FULLER
concurred, dissenting.
I am unable to concur in the opinion of the court in this
case. In my judgment it misconceives the language of the
statute, the issues presented by the pleadings, and the decision
of the state court. The act does not discriminate between
citizens of Tennessee and those of other States. Its language
is creditors "residents of this State shall have a priority
over all simple contract creditors being residents of any other
country or countries." The allegation of the amended bill is,
"your orators are all residents of the State of Tennessee and
were such at the time the various debts sued on in this cause
were created," and that by virtue of the statute they are entitled to priority over the "defendant, Rogers, Brown & Co.,
and all, other creditors of said insolvent corporation who do
not reside in the State of Tennessee, or (lid not so reside at
the time their credits were given." The intervening petition
of the plaintiffs in error, Blake and Rogers, Brown & Co.,
alleges "that they are residents of the State of Ohio, and
were at the times and dates hereinafter named engaged in
business in said State, their residences, offices and places of
business being at the city of Cincinnati." The decree of the
Chancery Court of Appeals adjudges "'that all of the creditors
of said company who resided in the State of Tennessee are
entitlkd to priority of payment out of all of the assets of the
company of every kind over all of the creditors of kaid company who do not reside in the State of Tennessee." And the
decree of the Supreme Court of the State is in substantially the

BLAKE v. McCLUING.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J., Fuller, C.J.

same language, adjudging "that all of the creditors of the
Embreeville Freehold Land, Iron and Railway Company,
Limited, who reside in the State of Tennessee, are-entitled
to priority of payment out of all of the assets of said company, both real and personal, over all of the other creditors of
said company who do not reside in the State of Tennessee,
whether they be residents of other States of the United States
or of the Kingdom of Great Britain." So that neither the
statute, the pleadings nor the decree raise any question of
citizenship, or give any priority of right to the citizens of Tennessee over citizens of other States, but only discriminate
between residents, and give residents of the State a priority.
I think it improper to go outside of a case to find a question
which is not in the record simply because it may be discussed
by counsel for one party, who apparently decline to recognize
any difference between residence and citizenship. For all this
record discloses, the plaintiffs in error other than the corporation may have been citizens of the State of Tennessee,
temporarily residing and doing business in Ohio, and the controversy one simply between citizens of the same State. It is
not necessary in this court to refer to the difference between
residence and citizenship. Neither is synonymous with the
other, and neither includes the other. A British subject or a
citizen of Ohio may be a resident of Tennessee, and entitled to
the benefit of this statute. A citizen of Tennessee may, like
these plaintiffs in error, be a resident of and doing business in
Ohio and not entitled to its benefit. It will be time enough
to consider the question discussed in the opinion when it appears that a'State has attempted to discriminate between its
own citizens and citizens of other States, and the courts of the
State have affirmed the validity of such discrimination.
Taking the statute as it reads, and assuming that the legislature of Tennessee meant that which it said, the question is
whether a State, permitting a foreign corporation which is not
engaged in interstate commerce to come into its territory and
there do business, has the power to protect all persons residing within its limits who may have dealings with such foreign
corporation by requiring it to give them a prior security on its

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J., Fuller, C.J.

assets within the State. The principle underlying this statute
is that a State, which can have no jurisdiction beyond its
territorial limits, ha$ the power in reference to foreign corporations permitted to do business therein to protect all per.ons
within those limits, whether citizens or not, in respect to
claims upon the property thereof also within those limits.
That a State may keep such a corporation out of its territory
is conceded; and that, in permitting it to enter, the State may
impose such conditipns as it sees fit, is, as a general proposition, also admitted. ' In C'rutc er v. Hentueky, 141 U. S; 47,
59, it was said-:
"The insurance business, for example, cannot be carried on
in a State by a foreign corporation without complying wiih
all the conditions imposed by the legislation of that State.
So with regard to manufacturing corporations, and all other
corporations whose business is of a local and domestic nature,
which would 'include express companies whose business is confined to points and places wholly within the State. The cases
to this effect are numerous. Bankc of Augll8ta v. Eare, 13
Pet. 519; Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Live7pooZ Insurance
Company v.'lassachusetts, 10 Wall. 566; Cooper .lanufacturing Company v. Ferguson, 113 U. S. 727; Phila.Fire As8ociation v. New York, 119 U. S. 110.'
. Every one dealing With a foreign corporation is
bound to
take notice of the statutes of the State imposing conditions
upon that corporation in respect to the transaction of its business within the State, just as he must take notice of any mortgage or other incumbrance placed by the corporation upon its
property there situated. A State may and often does provide
that persons furnishing supplies to and doing work for a corporation shall have a lien upon the property of that corporation-prior to any mortgage. The validity of such legislation
has always been sustained, and they who loan their money to
the corporation do so with notice of the limitation, and have
no constitutional right of complaint if their mortgage is thereafter postponed to simple contract obligations. If voluntarily
thd corporation placed a mortgage upon all its assets within
the State to secure a debt to a single creditor residing within

BLAKE v. McCLUNG.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J., Fuller, C.S.

the State, and such .mortgage was duly recorded, no one would
have the hardihood to say that a resident or citizen of another

State could challenge its validity or its priority over his unsecured debt simply because he was a citizen of another State,
or did not, in fact, know of its existence. And that which is
true in case of a mortgage to a single creditor would be equally
true in case such foreign corporation placed a mortgage upon
its assets to secure every creditor within the State. The number of creditors secured does not change the validity of the
security or affect the matter of notice or relieve the foreign
creditor from the consequences of notice. If the corporation
may voluntarily place a mortgage upon all its. assets within
the State to secure its creditors within the State, why may
not the legislature require as a condition of its doing business
that it give such a mortgage? Is the corporation more powerful than the State? Is a voluntarily executed mortgage
more valid than a statute? If, in fact, in pursuance of such a
statute a mortgage to each separate creditor was given and
recorded as fast as the corporation came under obligation to
him, could a non-resident creditor question the validity of the
mortgage or the priority given thereby? And is the effect of
the statute in controversy anything other than the imposition
upon the assets of the corporation within the StAte of a single
mortgage in favor of home creditors? 'If written out and
recorded, who could question its validity or its priority? The
statute in its spirit and effect does nothing more. That it is
prospective in its operation is immaterial -statutes generally
are. The validity of an after-acquired property clause in a
mortgage has become settled; none the less valid is it in a
statute.
It is conceded, in the opinion of the court, that a foreign
insurance corporation might be required to make -a special
deposit with the state treasurer to secure local policy holders,
but if it is within the ' constitutional power of the State to
require such special deposit, and when made it becomes in fact
a security to the home policy holders, I-am unable to appreciate why the State may not require a general mortgage on
all the, assets within the State as like security. Looking at it

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J., Fuller, C.J.

simply as a question of power on the part of the State, what
difference can there be between a pledge of a special fund. and
a mortgage of the entire fund within the State? And that
which is true in respect to an insurance corporation must also
be true of any other corporation not engaged in interstate
commerce business.
Indeed, aside from the demand made by the statutes of certain States of deposits by foreign corporations to secure home
creditors, there are frequent illustrations of discrimination
based upon the matter of residence. Often non-resident plaintiffs are required to give security for costs when none is demanded of resident suitors. Attachments will lie in the
beginning of an action, authorizing the seizure of property
upon the ground that the defendant is a non-resident, when
no such seizure is permitted in case of resident defendants.
These and many similar illustrations, which might be suggested, only disclose that it has been accepted as a general
truth that a State may discriminate on the ground of residence, and that such discrimination is not to be condemned as
one between citizens; and yet if the doctrine of the opinion of
the court in this case be correct, I cannot see how those statutes can be sustaine'd, for surely they discriminate between
non-resident and resident suitors in the matter of fundamental
rights, to wit, the right of equal entrance into -the courts and
equal security in the possession of property.
It may not be uninteresting to notice the case of Fritts v.

Palmer,132 U. S. 282. That case came from Colorado. The
statutes of that State, as quoted in the opinion of the court,
provided, among other things"SEc. 260. Foreign corporations shall, before they are au-

thorized or permitted to do any business in this State, make
and file a certificate, signed by the president and secretary of
such corporation, duly acknowledged, with the secretary of
State,"

.

and no corporation doingbusiness in the State,

incorporated under the laws of any other State, shall be permitted to mortgage, pledge or otherwise incumber its real or
personal property situated in this State, to the injury or exclusion of any citizen, citizens or corporations of this State

BLAKE v. McCLUNG.
Dissenting Opinion,: Brewer, J., Fuller, C.J.

who are creditors of such foreign corporation, and no mortgage by any foreign corporation, except railroad and telegraph
companies, given to secure any debt created in any other State,
shall take effect as against any citizen or corporation of this
State until all its liabilities due to any person or corporation
in this State at the time of recording such mortgage have been
paid and extinguished."
Commenting upon this section, and others, this court said

(p. 288):
"No question is made in this case - indeed, there can beto the validity of these constitutional and statno doubt -as
utory provisions, so far, at least, as they do not directly affect
foreign or interstate c6mmerce. In Cooper Jfanufacturing
Co. v. .Ferguson,113 U. S. 727, 732, this court said that ' the
right of the people of a State to prescribe generally by its.
constitution and laws the terms upon which a foreign corporation shall be allowed to carry, on its business in the State, has
been settled by this court?"
It will be perceived that the statute of Colorado restrained
a foreign corporation from mortgaging, pledging or otherwise
incumbering its property situate in the State to the injury or
exclusion of any citizen of the State, creditor of such corporation, and further provided that no. mortgage given by such
foreign corporation to secure a debt created in another State
should take effect against any citizen of the State until' all
liabilities due to any person or corporation in the State had
been paid and extinguished. But this court said, and I think
correctly, that there could be no doubt of the validity of these
statutory provisions. It may be said, and said truthfully, that
the attention of the court was not specially directed to this
particular portion of the statute, and hence that the decision
cannot be taken as authority. Yet the section was spread
before the court, it is quoted in its opinion, and it was so
obviously constitutional that neither counsel nor court had any
doubt thereof. I note this case in order to suggest the objectionable evolution of the thought that a State may not protect those persons who are within its jurisdiction in respect to
property also within its jurisdiction, or impose conditions on

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J., Fuller, C.J.

foreign corporations doing business therein, which amount to
such protection. Ten years ago a statute of Colorado guaranteeing priority to citizens of the State over all other creditors,
even those by mortgage, was by all parties, counsel and by
court, conceded, to be free from objection, while to-day a
statute of Tennessee, in no way discriminating between citizens, but only between residents and in respect to foreign
corporations, is declared to be so plainly at variance with the
Constitution of the United States that it must be adjudged
void.
The doctrine of this opinion is that a State has no power to
secure protection to persons within its jurisdiction, citizens or
non-citizen , in respect to property also within its jurisdiction,
because, forsooth, such protection may in some cases work to
the disadvantage of one who is not only a non-resident but
also not a citizen of the State. It seems to me that the
practical working out of this doctrine will be not that the
State -may not discriminate in favor of its own residents as
against non-residents, but that the State must discriminate
in favor of non-residents and against its own residents. Take
this illustration: A corporation organized and having its
home office in New York comes" into California to do business.
The State of California attempts to require that its assets
within the State shall be kept as a'primary security for home
creditors. This court declares that such requisition is unconstitutional, The solvency or insolvency of that New York
corporation will be known in New York by those who are
nearer to its home office sooner than by people in California.
Insolvency is impending. The creditors in New York, near
the home'office, and familiar therefore with its exact condition,
ascertaining' its approaching insolvency, send to California,
where there are assets, and, availing themselves of the ordinary
statttory provisions of that State, seize by attachment all the
assets there situated., The insolvency is thereafter made publie, and the California creditors find that all the assets of the
corporation within their State have been seized by creditors
outside the State, and they are driven to the State of New
York, where the corporation was organized, where its home

NORWOOD v. BAKER.
Syllabus.

office and home assets are, to see w.hat share in the unappropriated assets they can obtain, while the New York creditors,
by reason of their early information, secure full payment.
Practically, the effect is to compel the State to discriiinate
in favor of the New York against the home creditors. The
suggestion that after the New York creditors have perfected
their liens upon the assets in California, the courts of that
State will stay proceedings until they see that the New York
courts have given full protection to the California creditors
in the assets in New York, is visionary and impracticable.
Tjere may be assets in twenty States, and there is no control
by the courts of one State over proceedings in the courts of
other States. Of course, if the California courts can wait till
the New York courts have acted, the converse is also true,
and so a game of seesaw may be established between the
courts of the two States. For these, among Other reasons, I
am constrained to dissent from this opinion and judgment.
I am authorized to state that the Chief Justice concurs in
this dissent.

NORWOOD v. BAKER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED -STATES- FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 84. Submitted May 8, 1808. -Decided

December 12, 1S98.

The principle underlying special assessments upon private property to meet
the cost of public improvements is that the property upon which they aro
imposed is peculiarly benefited, and therefore that the owners do not in
fact pay anything in excess of what' they receive by reason of such
Improvement.
The exaction from.the owner of private property of the cost of a public
improvement in substantial excess of the special benefits accruing to him
is, to the extent of such excess, a taking, under the guise of taxation, of
private property for public use without compensation; but, unless such
excess of cost over special benefits be of a material charactdr, ii ought
not to be regarded by a court of equity, when its aid is invoked to restrain the enforcement of a special assessment.

