OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

including them. The property could be taxed for its value
of the extent of the title which is of the land."
The averment of the answer is that this was done; that the
lands were assessed and taxed for their value as agricultural
lands without including the minerals in them. The replication put this in issue but the stipulation of facts does not
explicitly notice it, but probably was intended to cover it by
the agreement that the assessment was made in the manner
and form required by the laws of Montana.
We are referred to the act of Congress of February 26,
1895, c. 131, entitled "An act to provide for the examination
and classification of certain mineral lands in the States of
Montana and Idaho," 28 Stat. 683, as strengthening the contention of appellants. We do not think it does. It was
passed after the time at which the validity of the assessment
complained of must be determined. Besides, it does not purport to define the rights of the railway company in any particular with which .we are now concerned. It furnishes the
Secretary of the Interior with another instrumentality - not
bringing the lands to a different judgment, but to an earlier
judgment.
Discovering no error in the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, it is
MR. JUsTICE BREwER, MR. JuSTIE SIRfAS, MR. JUSTICE
WHITE and MR. JusTiCE PEcxnAM dissented.

CONNECTICUT MUTUAL LIFE INSURANOE
PANY v. SPIRATLEY.

COM-

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE. OF TENNESSEE.
No. 183.

Submitted January 8, 1899. -Decided January80, 1899.

In a suit in a state court against a foreign corporation where no property
of the corporation is within the State, and the judgment sought is a personal one, It is material to ascertain whether the corporation is doing

MUTUAL LIFE ISURANCE CO. v. SPRATLEY.

603

Opinion of the Court.
business within the State; and if so, the service of process must be upon
some agent in the State so far representing it that he may properly be
held in law its agent to receive such process in its behalf.
A foreign insurance company which has been doing business within a State
through its agents does not cease to do business therein when it withdraws its agent and ceases to obtain or ask for new risks or obtain new
policies, while, at the same time, its old policies continue in force, and
the premiums thereon are paid by the policyholders to an agent residing
in another State, who was once the agent in the State where the policyholders reside.
On the facts stated in the opinion of the court, it is held that the law implies,
from the appointment and authority of the agent of the plaintiff in error,
the power to receive in Tennessee service of process against the company.
If it appears that there is a law of the State in respect to the service of
process upon foreign corporations, and that the character of an agency
of a foreign corporation is such as to render it fair, reasonable and just
to imply an authority. on the part of the agent to receive service, the law
will, and ought to, draw such an inference and imply such authority,
and service under such circumstances and, upon an agent of that character is sufficient.
When the legislature of Tennessee, under the act of March 22, 1875, permitted the plaintiff in error, a foreign corporation, to do business within
the State,,on appointing an agent therein upon whom process might be
served, and when, in pursuance of such provisions the company entered
the State and appointed the agent, no contract was thereby created which
would prevent the State from thereafter passing another statute in
regard to service of process, and making such statute applicable to all
foreign corporations, already doing business within the State.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mrk. B. X Estes, with whom was -r.
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
'-Mr. Thomas B.
defendant in error.

Turley and

Trancis Fentress on

Mr. Luke E.

Wright for

MR. JUSTICE PEoimAm delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error fled its bill against the defendant in

error in the chancery couri of Shelby County, Tennessee, for
the purpose of enjoining her from taking any proceedings
under a judgment by default which she had obtained in the
State of Tennessee, against the corporation, upon certain
policies of insurance, and also for the purpose of obtaining a

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

decree pronouncing the judgment void and releasing the corporation therefrom.
The ground set forth in the bill, and upon which the com-

plainant sought to have the judgment against it set aside, was
that the complainant was a non-resident of the state of Tennessee, had no office or agent there at the time the process
was served, and was doing no business in, the State, and the
person upon whom the process in the action had been served
in behalf of the corporation was not its representative in the
State, and no process served upon him was in any way effectual to give jurisdiction to the state court over the corporation. The bill also alleged that the judgment, if enforced,
would result in taking complainant's property without due
process of law, and would violate the Fifth and Fourteenth
Amendments of the Constitution of the United States.
The defendant in error herein appeared and answered the
bill, and alleged that the judgment she had obtained was a
valid and proper judgment, and she denied the allegation in
the bill that complainant was doing no business in the State at
the time of the service of process, and alleged on the contrary
that it was then doing business therein. She asked that the
preliminary injunction theretofore granted should be dissolved.
The court of chancery upon the trial gave judgment in
favor of the complainant,, and decreed that the preliminary
injunction granted in the cause should be made perpetual.
The defendant appealed to the Supreme Court of the State,
where the decree of the court of chancery was reversed, the
injhnction dissolved, and a judgment granted the defendant
in error on the bond executed by the company in obtaining
the injunction, for the amount of the original judgment, with
interest from its date, together with the costs of the suit for
the injunction. The complainant thereupon brought the case
here by writ of error.
In addition to the objection that the person upon whom
process was served was not such a representative of the company that service of process upon him was sufficient to give
the court jurisdiction, the company alleges that under the act
of 1875, which will be referred to hereafter, the company

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. SPRATLEY.

605

Opinion of the Court.

appointed an agent pursuant to its provisions, and that any
act subsequently passed relating to the service of process
upon any other than the person so appointed could not affect
the company, because such act would impair the contract
which it alleges was created between the State and the company when it appointed an agent, by its power of attorney,
pursuant to the provisions of such act of 1875.
The material facts are as follows: The corporation is a life
insurance conpany, incorporated under the laws of, and having its principal office in, the State of Connecticut. It did a
life insurance business in the State of Tennessee from February 1, 1870, until July 1, 1894. On March 22, 1875, the
State of Tennessee passed an act to regulate the business of
life insurance in that State-and by section 12 of the act it was
enacted that a company desiring to transact business by any
agent or agents in the State should file with the insurance
commissioner a power of attorney authorizing the secretary
of state to acknowledge service of process for and in behalf
of such company at any and all times after a company had
first complied with the laws of Tennessee and been regularly
admitted, even though such company may subsequently have
retired from the State or been excluded; and it was made the
duty of the secretary of state, Within five. days after such
service of process by any claimant, to forward by mail an
exact copy of such notice to the company. Pursuant to that
statute the company duly filed a power of attorney as required, and apppinted therein the secretary of state to receive.
service of process, and that power of attorney the company
never in terms altered or revoked.
In 1887 the legislature of Tennessee passed an act, approved March 29, 1887, c. 226, entitled "An act to subject
foreign corporations to suit in this State." The first section
of this act provided that any foreign corporation found doing
business in the State should be subject to suit there, to the
same extent that said corporations were by the laws of the
State liable to be sued, so far as related to any-transaction
had in whole or in part within the State, or to any cause of
action arising therein, but not otherwise.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The second section provided that any corporation that had
any transaction with persons or concerning any property situated in the State, through any agency whatever acting for
it within the Stateshould be held to be doing business within
the meaning of the act.
I The third and fourth sections of the act are set
forth in
full in the margin.'
The company continued to do business in the State after
the passage of this act, and on the 12th day of December,
1889, it insured the life of Benjamin R. Spratley, the husband
of the defendant in error, for the term of his life, in the sum
1SEc. 3. Be it further enacted, That process may be served upon any
agent of said corporation found within the county where the suit Is
brought, no matter what character of agent such person may be; and in
the absence of such an agent, it shall be sufficient to serve the process upon
any person, if found within the county where the suit is brought, who
represented the corporation at the time the transaction out of which the
suit arises took place, or if the agency through which the transaction was
had be itself a corporation, then upon any agent of that corporation upon
whom process might have been served if it were the defendant. The
officer serving the process shall state the facts, upon whom issued, etc., in
his return, and service of process so made shall be as effectual as If a corporation of this state were sued, and the process had been served as required by law; but in order that defendant corporation may also have
effectual notice, it shall be the duty of the clerk to immediately mail a
copy of the process to the home office of the corporation by registered
letter, the postage and fees for which shall be taxed as other costs. The
clerk shall file with the papers in the cause a certificate of the fact of such
mailing, and make a minute thereof upon the docket, and no judgment shall
be taken in the case until thirty (30) days after the date of such mailing.
SEc. 4. Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of the plaintiff to
lodge at the home office of the company, with any person found there, a
written notice from him or his attorney, stating that such suit has been
brought, accompanied by a copy of the process and the return of the
officer thereon, of which fact affidavit shall be made by the person lodging
the same, stating the facts and with whom the notice was lodged, or else
the plaintiff or his attorney shall make an affidavit that he has been prevented from serving such notice by circumstances which should reasonably
excuse giving it, which circumstances the affidavit of the plaintiff or his
attorney shall particularly state; and no judgment shall be taken until one
or the other of these affidavits shall be filed and the court be satisfied that
the notice has been given the defendant, or that the excuse for not doing so
be sufficient.

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANTCE CO. v. SPRATLEY.

607

Opinion of the Court.

of $5000, for the benefit of his wife, the defendant in error, or,
in case of her death before payment, to his children, etc.
The company also insured the life of ' Mr. Spratley on the
25th day of February, 1893, in the sum of $3000, in favor of
his wife and for her sole use and benefit, with other conditions
not material here. These policies were issued through the
solicitation and by the procurement of the agent of the company for the States of Tennessee and Kentucky, and who had
headquarters at Louisville, Kentucky. He came to Memphis
and solicited Mr. Spratley to take the policies, and the application for them was taken by such agent at Memphis. The
defendant in error alleges in her answer that the premiums
were paid thereon in Tennessee up to the death of Mr. Spratley in February, 1896, but that fact does not otherwise appear. It does appear that all premiums had been paid at
the time of the death of Mr. Spratley.
On July 1, 1894, the company ceased issuing any new
policies in the State of Tennessee, and withdrew its agents
from the State, and on July 21, 1891, notified the state
insurance commissioner to that effect. It had, however, a
number of policies, other than those issued on the life of Mr.
Spratley, outstanding in the State at the time it withdrew,
(how many is not stated,) and it continued to receive the
premiums on these policies through its former agent for that
State, and to settle, by payment or otherwise, the claims upon
policies in that State as they fell due.
The former agent resided in Louisville when he received
payment of the premiums, and it does not appear that after
July, 1894, he was in the State of Tennessee when any payment of premiums was made to him by Tennessee policyholders.
He received these payments as agent of the company, and
it recognized such payments as sufficient.
Mr. Spratley died in the city of Memphis, in the State of
Tennessee, on the 28th of February, 1896, leaving his widow,
the defendant in error, surviving him. The two policies were
in force at the time of his death. The company, being notified of the death of Mr. Spratley, sent its agent to Memphis
to act under its instructions in the investigation and adjust-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of the claim. Mr. Chaffee was the agent employed, and
he had been employed in tle service of the company since
the first day of July, 1887. The writing under which he was
employed stated that the company employed him" For special
service in any matters which may be 1eferred to you, with
instructions, during the pleasure of the directors of the company and under the direction of the executive officers; to
have your entire time and services, except upon leave of
absence; to pay the necessary travelling and hotel expenses
incurred in the line of your duty, and to pay you for your
time and services at the rate of $2500 per annum; this agreement terminable on the part of the company at the pleasure
of the directors and on your part by thirty days' written
notice."
The company sent Mr. Chaffee specially to the State of
Tennessee for the purpose of investigating into the circumstances of the death of Mr. Spratley and into the meiits of
the claim made by Mrs. Spratley, and while there he was
authorized by the company to compromise the claim made by
her upon terms stated in a telegram from the vice president
of the company. While Mr. Chaffee was engaged in negotiations with Mrs. Spratley and her brother in relation to her
claims, and after she had refused to accept the compromise
offered by him in behalf of the company, 6nd on April 15,
1896, he was served, in Memphis, with process against the
corporation in an action upon the policies above mentioned.
The attorneys for the plaintiff also sent a notice addressed
to the presidefit and directors of the company, togefher with
a copy of the process issued out of the Circuit Court of Shelby
County, which notice and copy of process were sent to Mr. Dunham, an attorney at law in the city and county'of Hartford, in
the State of Connecticut, who, on May 8, 1896, at Hartford,
served them upon the company by leaving them in the hands
of its vice president, and an affidavit of that fact was made
by Mr. Dunham, and filed at the time of the entry of judgment by default in the clerk's office at Memphis. A copy of
the writ was also sent by registered letter by John A. Strehl,
clerk of the court, addressed to the Connecticut Mutual Life

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. SPRATLEY.

609

Opinion of the Court.

Insurance Company, Hartford, Connecticut, and an ackno~vledgment of the receipt of such registered letter, signed by
William P. Green on behalf of the Connecticut Mutual Life
Insurance Company, was also filed with the judgment.
On July 2, 1896, judgment by default was entered against
the defendant, and the judgment' recited the above facts in
relation to the service of process on Mr. Chaffee, the sending
of. the registered letter from, the clerk of the court, and the
notice and copy of process to the attorney, 'Mr. Dunham, and
his service thereof.upon the vice president of the company at
its office in Hartford, Connecticut. It recited also the fact
that the defendant was doing business in Shelby County,
%Tennessee,but. that it had no office or agency therein, and
that it had'whony iaied to make any appearance, and thereupon the default was entered and judgment went against the
defendant for the sum of $8000, being the total amount due
on the life insurance contracts or policies described in the
declaration, and also for costs.
Upon these facts the question, arises as to the validity of
the judgment, to set aside which the company has filed this
bill. Without considering, for the moment, the objection
that there was a contract between the State and the company which could not be impaired, was the service of process
upon *r. Chaffee sufficient to give the court jurisdiction over
the co~poration?
When the process was served, the act of 1887, above mentioned, was in force.
The third and fourth sections of that act have already been
set forth, and they provide that process may be served upon
any agent of the corporation, found within the county where
the suit is brought,, no matter what character of agent such
person may be. We are not called upon to decide upon the
entire validity of this whole act. The Federal question with
which we are now concerned is whether the court obtained
jurisdiction to render judgment in the case against the company so that to enforce it would not be taking the property
of the company without due process of law. Even though
we might be unprepared to say that a service of process upon
VoL. cLxxII-9.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"any agent," found within the county, as provided in the
statute, would be sufficient in the case of a foreign corporation, the question for us to decide is whether upon the facts
of this case the service of process upon the person named was
a'sufficient service to give jurisdiction to the. court over this
corporation. If it were, there was due process of law, whatever we might think of the other provisions of the act in relation to the service upon any agent of a corporation, no matter
what character of agent the person might be. If the person
upon whom process was served in this case was a proper agent
of the company, it is immaterial whether the statute of the
State also permits a service to be made on some other character of agent which we might not think sufficiently representative to give the court jurisdiction over the corporation.
If the service be sufficient in this instance, the corporation
could not herein raise the question whether it would be sufficient in some other and different case coming under the provision of the state statute.
In a suit where no property of a corporation is within the
State, and the judgment sought is a personal one, it is a
material inquiry to ascertain whether the foreign corporation
is engaged in doing business within the State; Goldey v.
.Morning New8, 156 IU.S. 519; ALerchana .Manufacturing
Co. v. Orand Trunk Railway Co., 13 Fed. Rep. 358; and if so,
the service of process must be upon some agent so far representing the corporation in the State that he may properly be
held in law an agent to receive such process in behalf of the
corporation. An express authority to receive process is not
always necessary.
We think the evidence in this case shows that the company
was doing busin6ss within the State at the time of this service of process. From 1870 until 1894, it had done an active
business throughout the State by its agents therein, and had
issued policies of insurance upon the lives of citizens of the
State. How many policies it had so issued does not appear.
Its action in July, 189-,, in assuming to withdraw from the
State, was simply a recall of its agents doing business therein,
the giving of a notice to the state insurance commissioner, and

MUTUAL LIFE EYSURANCE CO. v. SPIATLEY.

611

Opinion of the Court.

a refusal to take any new risks or to issue any new policies
within the State. Its outstanding policies were not affected
thereby, and it continued to collect the premiums upon them
and to pay the losses arising thereunder, and it was doing so
at ihe time of the service of process upon its agent.
The corporation alleged in its bill filed in this suit that the
defendant herein was taking garnishee proceedings against
its policyholders in the State for the purpose of collecting,
as far as possible, the amount of the judgment she had obtained
against the corporation, and it gave in its bill the names of
some thirteen of such policyholders against whom proceedings
had been taken by this defendant. It cannot be said with
truth, as we think, that an insurance company does no business within a State unless it have agents therein who are continuously seeking new risks and it is continuing to issue nev
policies upon such risks. Having succeeded in taking risks in
the State through a number of years, it cannot be said to
cease doing business therein when it ceases to obtain or ask
for new risks or to issue new policies, while at the same time
its old policies continue in force and the premiums thereon
are continuously paid by the policyholders to an agent residing in another State, and who was once the agent in the State
where the policyholders resided. This action on the part of
the company constitutes doing business within the State, so
far as is necessary, within the meaning of the law upon this
subject. And this business was continuing at the time of the
service of process on Mr. Chaffee in Mfemphis.
It is admitted that the person upon whom process was
served was an agent of the -company. Was he sufficiently
representative in his character? He was sent into the State
as such agent to investigate in regard to this very claim, and
while there he was empowered to compromise it within certain stated terms, leaving him a certain discretion as to the
amount. He was authorized to settle the claim for the amount
of the reserve "or thereabouts." He did not. leave his character as agent when he entered the State. On the contrary,
it was as agent, and for the purpose of representing the coinpany therein, that he entered the State, and as agent he was

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

seeking a compromise of the claim by the authority of the
company, and therein representing it. Why was he not such
an agent as it would be proper to serve process upon? He
had been -appointed an agent by the company; his whole
time and services were given to the comlpany under an appointment made years previously; he. received a salary from the
company not dependent upon any particular service at any
particular time. The company having issued policies upon
the life of an individual who had died, and a claim having
been made for payment in accordance with the terms of those
policies, the company clothed him with- authority to go into
the State and in its behalf investigate the facts surrounding
the claim, and authority was given him to compromise it upon
terms which left to him discretion to some extent as to the
amount of'payment. He was not a mare agent appointed
for each particular case. He was employed generally, by the
company, to act in its behalf in all cases of this kind and as
directed by the company in each case. Entering the State
with this authority, and acting in this capacity, the company

itself doing business within the State, it seems to us that lie
sufficiently represented the company within the principle
which calls for ,the service of process upon a person who is in
reality sufficient of a representative to give the court jurisdiction over the company he represents. In yiew of all the
facts, we think it a proper case in which the law wouh
imply, from his appointment and authority, the power to
receive service of process in the case which he was attending to.
Taken in connection with the further fact of sending (as
provided for in the statute) a copy of the process and notice
thereof by registered letter to the home office of the company,
and also the personal service upon the company of a copy of
the process and notice thereof at its home office, it must be
admitted that one of the chief objects of all such kinds of service, namely, notice and knowledge on the part of the coin,pany of the commencement of suit against it, is certainly
provi'ded for. We do not intimate that mere knowledge or
notice as thus provided would be sufficient without a service

MUTUAL _LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. SPRATLEY.

613

Opinion of the Court.

on the agent in the State where suit was commenced, but we
refer to it as a part of the facts in the case.
In Zafayette ]n8urance Company v..French, 18 How. 404,
407, it appeared that a statute of Ohio made provision for service of process on foreign insurance companies in suits founded
upon contracts of insurance there made by them with citizens of that State. One of those provisions was that service
of process on a resident agent of a foreign corporation should
be as effectual as though thesame was served upon the principal. In a suit commenced in Ohio against a foreign corporation by service upon its resident agent, the company objected
to the validity of that service, and that question came before
this court, and Mr. Justice Curtis, in delivering the opinion of
the court, said:
"We find nothing iu this provision either unreasonable in
itself or in conflict with any principle of public law. It cannot be deemed unreasonable that the State of Ohio should
endeavor to secure to its citizens a remedy, in their domestic
forum, upon this important class of contracts made and to be
performed within that State, and fully subject to its laws; nor
that proper means should be used to compel foreign corporations, transacting this business of insurance within the State, for
their benefit and profit, to answer there for the breach of their
contracts of insurance there made and to be performed. Nor
do we think the means adopted to effect this object are open
to the objection that it is an attempt improperly to extend the
jurisdiction of the State beyond its own limits to a person in
another State. Process can be served on a corporation only
by making service thereof on some one or more of its agents.
The law may, and ordinarily does, designate the agent or officer on whom process is to be served. For the purpose of receiving such service, and being bound by it, the corporation is
identified with such agent or officer. The corporate power to
receive and act on such service, so far as to make it known to
the corporation, is thus vested in such officer or agent. Now,
when this corporation sent its agent into Ohio, with authority
to make contracts of insurance there, the corporation must be
taken to assent to the condition upon which alone such busi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court

ness could be there transacted by them; that condition being,
that an agent,.to make contracts, should also be the agent of
the corporation to receive service of process in suits on such
contracts; and, in legal contemplation, the appointment of
such an agent clothed him with power to receive notice, for
and on behalf of the corporation, as effectually as if he were
designated in the charter as the officer on whom process was
to be served; or, as if he had received from the president and
directors a power of attorney to that .effect. The process was
served within the limits and jurisdiction of Ohio, upon a
person qualified by law to represent the corporation there in
respect to such service; and notice to him was notice to the
corporation which he there represented, and for whom he was
empowered to take notice."
The act did not provide for an express consent to receive
such service, on the part of the company. The consent was
implied because of the company entering the State and doing
business therein subject to the provisions of the act.
It is true that in the above case the person upon whom service of process was made is stated to have been a resident
agent of the company; but the mere fact of residence is not
material, (other things being sufficient,) ptovided he was
in the State representing the company and clothed with power
as an agent of the company to so represent it. His agency
might be sufficient in such event, although he was not a resident of the State. It is also true that the agent in that case
was an agent with power to make contracts of insurance in
behalf of the corporation in that State, and from that fact in
connection with the statute, the court inferred the further fact
of, an implied power io receive service of processin behalf of
the corporation. The agent bad not, so far as the case shows,
received any express authority from the company to receive
service of process. The court does not hold nor is it intimated
that none but an agent who has authority to make contracts
of insurance in behalf of the company could be held to represent it for the purpose of service of process upon it. It is a
question simply whether a power to receive service of process
can reasonably and fairly be implied from the kind and char-

MUTUAL LIFE INSURWANE CO. v. SPRATLEY.

'615

Opinion of the Court.

acter of agent employed. And while the court held that an
agent with power to contract was, in legal contemplation,
clothed with power to receive notice for and on behalf of the
corporation as effectually as if he were designated in the charter as the officer upon whom process was to be served, we
think.it is not an unnatural or an improper inference, from the.
facts in the case at bar, to infer a power on the part of this
agent, thus sent into the State by the company, to receive
notice on its behalf in the same manner and to the same extent
that the agent in the case cited was assumed to have. In such
case it is not material that the officers of the corporation deny
that the agent was expressly given such power, or assert that
it was withheld from him. The question turns upon the character of the agent, whether he is such that the law will imply
the power and impute the authority to him, and if he be that
kind of an agent, the implication will be made notwithstanding a denial of authority on the part of the other officers of
the corporation.
This case is unlike that of St. Clairv. Cox, 106 U. S. 350.
There the record of the judgment, which was held to have
been properly excluded, did not (and there is no evidence
which did) show that the corporation was doing business in
the State at the time of the service of process on the person
said to be its agent. Nor did it appear that the person upon
whom the process was served bore such relations to the oorpQration as would justify the service upon him as its agent. In
the course of the opinion in that case,. Mr. JusticeField, speaking for the court, said,:
"It is sufficient to observe that we are of opinion that when
service is made within the State upon an agent of a foreign
corporation, it is essential, in order to support the jurisdiction
of the court to render a personal judgment, that it should
appear somewhere in the record - either in the application
for the writ, or accompanying its service, or in the pleadings
or in the finding of the.court- that the corporation was engaged in business in the State. The transaction of business
by the corporation in the State, general or special, appearing,
and a certificate of service of process by the proper officer

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

on a person who is its agent there, would, in our opinion, be
sufficient primafacie evidence that the agent represented the
company in the business. It would then be open, when the
record is offered as evidence in another State, to show that
the agent stood in no representative-character to the eompany,
that his duties were limited to those of a subordinate employS,
or to a particular transaction, or that his agency had ceased
when the matter in suit arose."
the above extract
Here we have the essentials named infrom the opinion of the court in St. Clair v. Cox. We have a
foreign corporation doing business in the State of Tennessee.
We have its agent present within the State, representing it by
its authority in regard to the very claim in dispute, and with
authority to compromise it within certain limits, and his general authority not limited to a particular transaction. On the
contrary, as seen from his written appointmen. his agency
for the company was a continuous one, and had been such
since 1887, although, of course, his agency was limited to a
certain department of the business of the corporation.
The case does not hold that a foreign corporation cannot be
sued in any State unless it be doing business there and has
appointed an agent' expressly that process might be served
upon him for it. Speaking of the service of process upon an
agent, the learned justice thus continued:
"In the State where a corporation is formed, it is not difficult to ascertain who are authorized to represent and act for
it. Its charter or the statutes of the State will indicate in
whose hands the control and management of its affairs are
placed. Directors are readily found, as also the officers appointed by them to manage its business. But the moment the
boundary of the State is passed difficulties arise; it is not so
easy to determine who represents the corporation there, and
under what circumstances service on them will bind it."
This language does not confine the service to an agent who
has been expressly authorized to receive service of process
upon him in behalf of the foreign corporation. If that were
true, it would be easy enough to determine whether the person represented the corporation, as unless he had been so

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. SPRATLEY.

617

Opinion of the Court.

authorized he would not be its agent in that matter. In the
absence of any express authority, the question depends upon a
review of the surrounding facts and upon the inferences which
the court might properly draw from them. If it appear that
there is a law of the State in respect to the service of process
on foreign corporations and that the character of the agency
is such as to render it fair, reasonable and just to imply an
authority on the part of the agent to receive service, the law
will and ought to draw such an inference and to imply such
authority, and service under such circumstances and upon an
agent of that character would be sufficient.
It was held in Pennoyer v. _ef, 95 U. S. 7114, that a service
by publication in an action in'pe'sonam against an individual,
where the defendant was a non-resident and had no property
within the State, and the suit was brought simply to determine his personal rights and obligations, was ineffectual for
any purpose. The case has no bearing upon the question
here presented.
In .Mexican Central Railway v. Pinkney, 149 U. S. 194, it
was held that the person upon whom process was served in
the State of Texas was not a "local agent" within the meaning of that term as contained in the Texas statute. It was
also held that the special appearance of the company for the
purpose of objecting that the service of process was not good
did not, in the Federal courts, confer jurisdiction as in case
of a general appearance. There is nothing in the case affecting this question.
In .faxwell v. Atchison, Texas &c. Railroad,34 Fed. Rep.
286, the opinion in which was delivered by Judge Brown,
United States District Judge of Michigan, now one of the Justices of this court, the decision was placed upon the ground
that the business which the defendant carried on in Michigan
was not of such a character as to make it amenable to suits
within that jurisdiction, especially where the cause of action in
the case arose within the State of Kansas, and the court also
held that the individual upon whom the process was served
was not an offlcer or managing agent of the railroad company
within the meaning of the act of the legislature, nor was

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

he even a ticket agent of the company; that he was a mere
runner, and that service of process upon him for a cause of
action arising in Kansas gave no jurisdiction to the court.
In United State's v. American 'Bell Telephone Co., 29 Fed.
Rep. 17, Judge Jackson stated the three conditions necessary
to give a court jurisdiction in personarm over a foreign corporation: First, it must appear that the corporation was
carrying on its business in the State where process was served
on its agent; second, that the business was transacted or
managed by some agent -or officer appointed by or' representing the corporation in such State; third, the existence
of some local law making such corporation amenable to suit
there as a condition, express or implied, of doing business in
the State.
In this case the company was doing business in the State.
The agent was in the State under the authority and by the
appointment of the company.' He was authorized to inquire
into and compromise the particular matters in dispute between
the corporation and the policyholder, and he was no mere
special employ6 engaged by the company for. this particular
purpose. And there was a local law, that of 1887, providing
for service. It has been recently held in this court that as to
a Circuit Court of the United States, where a corporation is
doing business in a State other than the one of its incorporation, service may sometimes be made upon its regularly appointed agents there, even in the absence of a state statute
conferring such authority. Barrow Steamhiy Oo. v. .cane
170 IU.S. 100.
Although the legislature, by the act of 1875, provided for
service of process upon a particular 'person, (the secretary of
state,) ini behalf of a foreign corporation, and the company
had, pursuant to the provisions of the act, duly appointed
that officer its, agent to receive process for it, nevertheless
the, legislature provided, by law in 1887, for service .upon
other agents, and the company continued thereafter to do
business in the State. Continuing to do business, the company impliedly assented to the terms of that statute, at least
to the extent of consenting to the service of process upon an

MUTUAL LIFE INSURAICE CO. v. SPRATLEY.

619

Opinion of the Court.

agent so far representative in chafacter that the law would
imply authority on his part to receive such service within the
State. Y'erchant' Manufacturing Co. v. Grand Trunk Bailway,. 13 Fed. IRep. 358, 359. When the service of which
plaintiff in error complains was made, the act of 1875 had
been repealed by chapter 160 of the laws of 1895, and the company had never appointed an agent under chapter 166 of the
laws of that year. There was, therefore, no one upon whom
process could be served in behalf of "the company, excepting under the act of 1887, unless the plaintiff in error be right
in the claim that, by appointing the secretary of state its'
agent to receive process under the act of 1875,. a contract was
created, and the secretary of state remained such agent, notwithstanding subsequent statutes regulating the subject, or
even repealing the act. We will refer to that claim hereafter.
If by the statute of the State provision were made for-the
appointment of an agent by the company, upon whom process
might be served, and the company had appointed such an
agent, and there was no other statute authorizing service of
process upon, an agent of the company other than the one so
appointed, we do not say that service upon any other agent of
the company would be good. This is not such a case, and the
question is not here open for discussion.
A vast mass of business is now done throughout the country
by corporations which are chartered by States other than
those in which they are transacting part of their business, and
justice requires that some fai?" and reasonable means should
exist.for bringing such corporations within the jurisdiction of
the courts of the State where the business was done, out of
which the dispute arises:
It was well said in Railroad Gompany v Harris,12 Wall.
65, 83, by Mr. Justice Swayne, in speaking for the court, in
regard to service on an agent, that "When this suit was commenced, if ihe theory maintained by the counsel for the
plaintiff in error be correct, however large or small the cause
of action, and whether it were a proper one for legal or equitable cognizance, there could be no legal redress short of the
seat of the company in another State. In many instances the

OCTOBER TERIMt, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

cost of the remedy would have largely exceeded the value of
its fruits. In suits local in their character, both at law and in
equity, there could be no relief. The result would be, to a
large extent, immunity from all legal responsibility." The
court in view of these facts was of opinion that Congress intended no such result.
In holding the service of process upon this particular agent
sufficient in this instance and so far as the character of the
agent is concerned, we do not, as we have already intimated,
hold that service upon any agent mentioned in the act of 1887
would be good. That question is not before us.
Upon the question relative to the alleged creation of a contract between the State and the company, by the appointment
of the secretary of state as its agent under the act of 1875,
toreceive process for it, we have no doubt.
I The act of 1875 stated the terms, upon compliance with
which a foreign corporation should be permitted to do business within the State of Tennessee. There was however no
contract that those conditions should never be altered, and
when pursuant to the provisions of the act of 1875 this power
of attorney was given by the corporation, the State did not
thereby contract that during all of the period within which
the company might do business within that State no alteration or modification should be made regarding the conditions
as to the service of process upon the company. When therefore in 1887 the legislature passed another act and therein
provided for the service of process, no contract between the
State and the corporation was violated thereby, or any of its
obligations in anywise impaired, for the reason that no contract had ever existed. Instead of a contract, it was a mere
license given by the State to a foreign corporation to do business within its limits upon complying with the rules and regulations provided for by law. That law the State was entirely
competent to change at any time by a subsequent statute without being amenable to the charge that such subsequent statute
impaired the obligation of a contract between the State and
the foreign corporation doing business within its borders under
the former act.

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE GO. v. SPRATLEY.

621

Opinion of the Court.

Statutes of this kind reflect and execute the general policy
of the State upon matters of public interest, and each subsequent legislature has equal power to legislate upon the same
subject. The legislature has power at any time to repeal or
modify the act granting such permission, making proper provision, when necessary in regard to the rights of property of
the company already acquired, and protecting such rights
from any illegal interference or injury. .Dougla8 v. Eentucky, 168 U. S.488. The cases showing the right of a State
to grant or refuse permission to a foreign corporation of this
kind to do business within its limits are collected in Hooper v.
California,155 U. S.648, 652.
Having the right to impose such terms as it may see fit
upon a corporation of this kind as a condition upon which it
will permit the corporation to do business within its borders,
the State is not thereafter and perpetually confined to those
conditions which it made at the time that a foreign corporation may have availed itself of the right given by the State,
but it may alter them at its pleasure. In all such cases there
can be no contract springing from a compliance with the
terms of the act, and no irrepealable law, because they are
what is termed "governmental subjects," and hence within
the category which permits the legislature of a State to legislate upon those subjects from time to time as the public interests may seem to it to require.
As these statutes involve public interests, legislation regarding them are necessarily public laws, and as stated in
Newton v. commis.ioners, 100 U. S. 548, 559; "Every succeeding legislature possesses the same jurisdiction and power
with respect to them as its predecessors. The latter have the
same power of repeal and modification which the former had
of enactment, neither more nor less. All occupy, in this respect, a footing of perfect equality. This must necessarily be
so in the nature of things. It is vital to the public welfare
that each one should be able at all times to do whatever the
varying circumstances and present exigencies touching the
subject involved may. require. A different result would be
fraught with evil."

622.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

The same principle is found in the following cases: Fertilizing Company v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 659; Butcher8' Union
Company v. Creecent City, 111 U. S. '746.; Royd v. Alabama,
94"U. S. 645; Dougla8 v. Kentuc7ky, 168 U. S. 488.

When the legislature of Tennessee therefore permitted the
company to do business within its State on appointing an
agent therein upon whom process might be served, and when
in pursuance of such provisions the company entered the State
and appointed the agent, no contract was thereby created which
would prevent the State from thereafter passing another statute
in regard to service of process, and making such statute applicable, to a company already.doing business in the State. In
other words, no contract was created by the fact that the
company availed itself of the permission to do business within
the State under the provisions of the act of 1875.
Upon the case as presented in this record, we are of opinion
that the service upon the person in question was a good service
in behalf of the corporation- The judgment of the Supreme
Court of Tennessee is therefore
Affirmed.
MR3. JUSTICE H&RIAI

did not'sit in and took no part in the

decision of this case.

HOENING.R.US

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 841.

Argued January11, 1899. -Decided

January 80,1899.

Under the provisions of paragraph 387 of the act of July 24, 1897, and section 7 of the act of June 10, 1890, as amended by section 82 of the act of
July 24, 1897, the merchandise in suit, being certain woven fabrics in the
piece composed of silk and cotton, was subject to an ad valorem duty or
to a duty based upon or regulated by the value thereof.
An additional duty of one per centum of the total appraised value of such
. merchandise for each one per centum that such appraised value exceeded

