OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

this act are broad enough to cover not only lands taken for
flowage purposes, but all injury done to lands or other property by means of -any part of the works of said improvement, which would include damages caused by the diversion
of the waters."
Moreover in the state cases cited by the defendants in
error, the question of Federal jurisdiction and control did not
arise and was not considered.
Other propositions, based on the alleged departure by the
Supreme Court of the State from the case made by the pleadings, were discussed by the counsel for the plaintiff in error;
but, as the views heretofore stated dispose of the case, it is not
necessary for us to consider them.
Our conclusion, then, is, that, as by the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin there was drawn into question
the validity of an authority exercised under the United States,
to wit, the granting of the said-water powers and easement, and
the decision was against the validity of such authority, thereby
depriving the plaintiff in error of property without due process
of law, the judgment. of that court must be and is hereby
Reversed and the case remanded to the SuT2reme Court qf
Wisconsin for further _procedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.

MEYER v. RICHMOND.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.
No. 48. Submitted October 14, IS98.-Decided November 2S, 189S.

The plaintiff's declaration, in a case pending in a nisipriuscourt in Virginia,
set forth that he was the owner in fee of a lot of land fronting on Eighth
street between Cary and Canal streets, in Richmond, on which were
located two brick buildings, the first floor of which was used for store
purposes and the second story as dwellings; that said property, previous
to the obstruction of Eighth street, as hereinafter described, was very
profitable as an investment, being continuously rented to good tenants,
who promptly paid remunerative rents for the same; that on the 25th

MEYER v. I TCHMOND.
Statement of the Case.
day of June, 1886, the city council of Richmond, by ordinance, authorized
the Richmond and Alleghany Railway Company to obstruct for the distance of sixty feet (commencing at Canal street in the direction of Cary
street) Eighth street, and by virtue of which said railway company
wholly obstructed and occupied said street for said distance with its
tracks, sheds, fences, etc., except to pedestrians, for whom said cornpany was required to provide by overhead bridge and stairway approaches
thereto. It further was averred that by means of this obstruction, so
made by said company by authority of said city, travel along said street
was arrested and the property rights of the petitioner, as an abutter
upon said street, were not only substantially injured, but practically
destroyed; that the city had no right under the Constitution and laws
of the land to authorize the said railroad company to close said street
or place obstructions therein without proper legal proceedings for that
purpose and the making of just compensation to such abutting owners
as might be injured by said action; that this unconstitutional and
illegal action rendered said defendants liable to the petitioner, as trespassers on his property, for all damages that he had sustained not common to the public; that the obstructions were in themselves nuisances
which the city was charged with the duty of abating and moving, and
that every day's continuation of the same was a new offence. A general
demurrer being entered, judgment was given for defendants.
The
plaintiff moved to set aside said judgment, solely on the ground that the
act of the general assembly of Virginia, approved May 24, 1870, providing
a charter for the city of Richmond, so far as it authorized the passage
of the ordinance in the declaration mentioned, as well as said ordinance,
is unconstitutional and void, because in conflict with the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, which prohibits
any State from depriving any person of property without due process of
law, and therefore there was no warrant of law for the closing of said
street; but the court overruled said motion and refused to grant said
motion and to set aside said judgment; to which action of the court the
plaintiff excepted. The Supreme Court of Appeals of the State sustained
that judgment, whereupon a writ of error was sued out to this court.
Held,
(1) That the constitutional question so raised was set up in time, and
this court has jurisdiction.
(2) That the judgment of the state court was right, and should be
affirmed.

THIS is a common law action of trespass on the case, and
was brought by plaintiff ih error against the defendants in
error in one of the tisi ?pius courts of the State of Virginia.
The substance of the plaintiff's declaration is as follows:
That he was the owner in fee of a lot of land fronting on
Eighth street between Cary and Canal streets, on which were

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

located two brick buildings, the first floor of which was used
for store purposes and the second story as dwellings; that said
property, previous to the obstruction of Eighth street, as
hereinafter described, was very profitable as an investment,
being continuously rented to good tenants, who promptly paid
remunerative rents for the same; that on the 25th day of
June, 1886, the city council of Richmond, by ordinance,
authorized the Richmond and Alleghany Raihay Company
to obstruct for the distance of sixty feet (commencing at
Canal street in the direction of Cary street) Eighth street,
and by virtue of which said railway company wholly obstructed and occupied said street for said distance with its
tracks, sheds, fences, etc., except to pedestrians, for whom
said company was required to provide by overhead bridge
and stairway approaches thereto. It was averred in said
declaration that by means of this obstruction, so made by
said company by authority of said city, travel along said street
was arrested and the property rights of ypur petitioner, as an
abutter upon said street, were not only substantially injured,
but practically destroyed; that the city had no right under
the Constitution and laws of the land to authorize the said
railroad company to close said street or place obstructions
therein without proper legal proceedings for that purpose and
the making of just compensation to such abutting owners as
might be injured by said action; that this unconstitutional and
illegal action rendered said defendants liable to your petitioner,
as trespassers on his property, for all damages that he had sustained not common to the public; that the obstructions were
in themselves nuisances which the city was charged with the
duty of abating and removing, and that each day's continuation
of the same was a new offence; that the rights, privileges and
obligations of said Richmond and Alleghany Railway Company had been legally transferred to and assumed by said
Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company, and that it, the said
last-named company, now maintained the said obstructions and
was therefore liable, jointly with said city of Richmond, for
the said trespasses. A plat of the locus in quo and a copy of
said ordinance were made parts of said declaration.

MEYER v. RICHMOND.
Statement of the Case.

Damages were claimed in the sum of five thousand dollars.
On the 9th of September, 1895, the defendants entered a
general demurrer to the whole declaration and each count
thereof, in which the plaintiff joined, and on the 27th of
December, 1895, the court sustained the demurrer and gave
judgment for the defendants, dismissing the action.
And thereupon the plaintiff, by counsel, moved the court to
set "aside the said judgment and enter judgment for him on
said demurrer, and it being represented to the court that it is
the intention of the plaintiff in the case of H. Wythe Davis
against The City of Richmond and The Chesapeake and Ohio
Railway Company to apply for a writ of error to the judgment of this court entered this day in that cause, and the
questions involved in that case being the same as in this case,
the court takes time to consider of said motions, and by consent of parties this case is retained on the docket of this court,
and the determination of said motions to await the result of
the application for a writ of error in the case of H. Wythe
Davis against The City of Richmond and The Chesapeake
and Ohio Railway Company."
On the 31st day of January, 1896, the following proceedings were bad:
"This day came the parties again, by their attorneys, and
the court, being now advised of its judgment to be rendered
herein, on the motion of the plaintiff to set aside the judgment rendered on the demurrer to the plaintiff's declaration
and to each count thereof, doth refuse to set aside said judgment.
"And thereupon the plaintiff again moved the court to set
aside said judgment entered on the 27th day of December,
1895, sustaining defendants' demurrer to the declaration and
to each count thereof, solely on the ground that the act of the
general assembly of Virginia, approved May 24, 1870, providing a charter for the city of Richmond, (Acts 1869-70, p. 120,)
so far as it authorized the passage of the ordinance in the declaration mentioned, as well as said ordinance, is unconstitutional
and void, because in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States, which prohibits any

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

State from depriving any person of property without due process of law, and therefore there was no warrant of law for the
closing of said street as claimed by said defendants; but the
court overruled said motion and refused to grant said motion
and to set aside said judgment; to which action of the court
the plaintiff excepted and filed his bill of exception, which was
signed, sealed and enrolled, and made a part of the record."
The plaintiff then presented a petition to the Supreme Court
of Appeals of Virginia, the court of last resort of that State,
asking for a writ of error to said judgment, but said court
rejected the petition by the following order:
C

VIRGINIA:

"In the Supreme Court of Appeals held in the state Library
Building, in the city of Richmond, on Thursday, February 20, 1896.
"The petition of Engelbert Meyer for a writ of error from
a judgment rendered by the law and equity court of the city
of Richmond on the 31st day of January, 1896, in a suit in
which the petitioner was plaintiff and the city of Richmond
and the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company were defendants, having been maturely considered and the transcript of
the record of the judgment aforesaid seen and inspected, the
court being of opinion' that said judgment is plainly right,
doth reject said petition."
The case is here on error-to this order.
In his petition to the Court of Appeals the plaintiff set up
and urged a right under the Constitution of the United States
as follows:
"Your petitioner now insists that the
said law and equity
court erred in sustaining said demurrer to his declaration, and
also in refusing to set aside its judgment so holding as set
forth in his bill of exception.
"Your petitioner therefore humbly submits"That under the constitution and laws of this State the
free and uninterrupted use of public highways once dedicated
to and accepted by the public or acquired by right of eminent
domain are for continuous public use, and that the right of

MEYER v. RICHMOND.
Statement of the Case.

access to and use of such streets by an abutting property
holder is property of which the owner cannot under the
Federal Constitution be deprived without due process of law.
"The said law and equity court in sustaining the said demurrer denied to your petitioner his constitutional rights, and
specially so did it in refusing to set aside its judgment when
its attention was called to the unconstitutionality of the act
of the general assembly of Virginia approved May 24, 1870,
(Acts 1869-'70, p. 120,) so far as it authorized the passage of
the ordinance in the declaration mentioned, because in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment, which prohibits any
State from depriving any person of property without due
process of law, there being no mode prescribed in said act of
the general assembly or in said ordinance for the divesting
him of his said property rights by any judicial proceedings
whatsoever."
On page 88 is a copy of the diagram showing plaintiff's
property and the obstructions complained of.
The ordinance under which the defendants justified is inserted in the margin; also the sections of the Virginia Act of
May 24, 1870, c. 101, Acts of Assembly, 1869-70, under which
the ordinance was passed are inserted in the margin.'
' Ordinance permitting the Richmond and Alleghany Railroad Company to
close a certain portion of Eighth street and requiring them to erect a
foot bridge. (Approved June 28, 1886.)
Be it ordained by the city council of Richmond, First. So much of Eighth
street as lies between the present southern boundary line of the property of
the Richmond and Alleghany Railroad Company, being also the southern
boundary line of the right of way of the James River and Kanawha Company, and a line drawn across Eighth street at right angles, sixty feet north
of the face of the north wall of the canal as said wall is now built, shall be,
and the same is hereby, closed from the 31st day of August, 1886, until It
is required to be reopened in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance: Provided, that the said Richmond and Alleghany Railroad Company
shall, on or before the said 31st day of August, begin to erect an overhead
foot bridge across the tracks and canal of said railroad on that portion of
Eighth street above described, and shall complete the same by the 30th day
of September, 1886.
Second. The said bridge and the stairways thereto shall be twelve feet

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.
s
C~z5. fee't.

a(av.u--. 4-...-

,s

t,4

cbat

stres

MEYER v. RICHMOND.
Statement of the Case.

The constitution of Virginia, so far as involved in this controversy, provides in article 5, section 14, that the general
assembly shall not pass "any laws whereby private property
shall be taken for public use without just compensation."
wide, and shall be so located, and shall be of such material or materials,
design, security and capacity, as may b.e required by the city engineer; the
same shall always be kept and maintained in such condition and repair as
may be from time to time required by the committee on streets of the said
city council, and always be open to the free use of the public.
Third. Should the said company fail for the space of ten days to put the
said bridge or stairways in such condition or repairs, after having been
required so to do by said committee, then the said company shall be liable
to a fine of fifty dollars, to be imposed by the police justice of Richmond,
and each day's failure to be a separate offence; and the city may in all such
cases repair said bridge or stairways when not done by said company as
herein required, and the expense thereof shall "be a debt against the said
company recoverable as debts are now recoverable by the city of Richmond.
Fourth. The said company, by exercising the privileges herein granted,
doth hereby agree and bind themselves to indemnify and save harmless at
all times the said city from any loss or damage suffered by reason of any one
being injured in any manner in using said bridge or stairways, or by reason
of the building or existence of the same, and shall pay to the city any
amount or amounts recovered against said city by any judgment or judgments given on account of any such injuries.
Fifth. The above-described portion of Eighth street shall remain closed
until the said Richmond and Alleghany Railroad Company shall have been
ordered by the ordinances of two successively elected councils to remove
the said overhead bridge and restore the street to its present condition, and
to the same authority and control of the city as existed prior to the passage
of this ordinance. Whenever it is so ordered to be reopened, the said company
shall be allowed three months from the date of the passage of the last of the
said two ordinances in which to remove said bridge and stairways, and to restore said Eighth street to the same condition in which it was before the passage of this ordinance. And should the said company fail to remove said
bridge and stairways and to restore said Eighth street to its former condition,
before the expiration of the said three months, then the said company shall
be liable to a fine of one hundred dollars, and each day's default shall be a
separate offence; and the said city may remove said bridge and stairways
and restore said Eighth street as above mentioned, when not done by said
company as above required, and the expense thereof shall be a debt agaiist
the said company recoverable as debts are now recoverable by the city of
Richmond.
Sixth. The said company doth, by exercising the privileges herein
granted, agree and bind itself and its assigns to make no claim to the land
now occupied by that portion of Eighth street to be closed, on account of

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Counsel for Parties.

-Mr. Henry R. Pollardfor plaintiff in error.
Mr. H. T. Wickham and Mr. ilenry Taylor, Jr., for defendants in error.
said closing or the privileges herein granted, and doth fully recognize and
admit the right of the said city to reopen the said Eighth street at any time,
according to the provisions of this ordinance.
Seventh. Nothing in this ordinance shall conflict in any way with the
ordinance approved May 12, 1886, granting permission to the Richmond and
Chesapeake Railroad Company to construct a tunnel under Eighth street;
and should the bridge constructed under this ordinance obstruct in any
manner the said tunnel or tracks leading thereto, it shall be changed by the
said Richmond and Alleghany Railroad Company within sixty days after
receipt of notice from the committee on streets of the said city council
requiring such change to be made.
BEN. T. AUGUST, City Clerk.
Teste:
A copy.
Virginia Acts of Assembly, 1869-'70, pp. 120-146.
SEc. 19. The city council shall have, subject to the provisions herein
contained, the control and management of the fiscal and municipal affairs
of the city and of all property, real and personal, belonging to the said city;
and may make such ordinances, orders and by-laws, relating to the same,
as it shall deem proper and necessary. They shall likewise have the power
to make such ordinances, by-laws, orders and regulations as they may deem
desirable to carry out the following powers which are hereby vested in
them:
VII. To close or extend, widen or narrow, lay out and graduate, pave
and otherwise improve streets and public alleys in the city, and have them
properly lighted and kept in good order; and they shall have over any street
or alley in the city, which has been or may-be ceded to the city, like authority as over other streets or alleys. They may build bridges in and culverts
under said streets, and may prevent or remove any structure, obstruction
or encroachment over or under, or in a street or alley, or any sidewalk
thereof, and may have shade trees planted along the said streets; and no
company shall occupy with its work the streets of the city without the
consent of the council. In the meantime no order shall be made and no
injunction shall be awarded, by any court or judge, to stay the prqceedings
of the city in the prosecution of their works, unless it be mauifest that they,
their officers, agents or servants, are transcending the authority given them
by this act, and that the interposition of the court is necessary to prevent
injury that cannot be adequately compensated in damages.
SEC. 22. The council shall not take or use any private property for
streets or other public purpose without making to the owner or owners

MEYER v. RICHMOND.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE MOKENNA,

after stating the case delivered the

opinion of the court.
The jurisdiction of this court is challenged. The defendants in error claim that "the declaration shows no point is
therein raised which demanded the consideration by the court
of any constitutional question," and they insist further that
"if it were intended to raise the question that the charter and
ordinance were unconstitutional, and in consequence thereof
plaintiff was deprived of his property without due process of
law, the same should have been specially set up as claimed by
apt language in the declaration so as to bring the question
to the attention of the court when it had to pass 'on the denurrer." This certainly was not done, and if it was an indispensable condition to the jurisdiction of this court it has none.
Dut it was done subsequently, as we have stated, and, whatever the ground of the court's ruling on the demurrer and on
the first motion to reverse that ruling, the second motion was
unequivocally based on the invalidity of the city ordinance
because of its asserted conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, and the court's
ruling necessarily responded to and opposed the grounds of
the motion - necessarily denied the right specially set up by
him under the Constitution.
Plaintiff's motion and the special grounds of it and exceptions to the ruling of the court were embraced in a bill of
exceptions, and allowed and became part of the record on his
petition to the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia for a
review and reversal of the judgment, and the petition besides
explicitly set up and urged a right under the Constitution of
the United States.
thereof just compensation for the same. But in all cases where the said
city cannot by agreement obtain title to the ground necessary for such
purposes, it shall be lawful for the said city to apply to and obtain from
the circuit or county court of the county in which the land shall be situated,
or to the proper court of the city having jurisdiction of such matters, if
the subject lies within this city, for authority to condemn the same; which
shall be applied for and proceeded with as provided by law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The Court of Appeals rejected the petition.
cited

".

.

.

Its order re-

that, having maturely considered, and the

transcript of the record of the judgment aforesaid seen and
inspected, the court, being of opinion that such judgment is
plainly right, doth reject said petition."
Necessarily, therefore, the Supreme Court of Appeals did
as the court of the city of Richmond did-considered the
right which-plaintiffs claimed under the Constitution of the
United States, and denied the right. Chicago, Burlington &c.
Railroad v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 228.
So far the conditions of the power of review by this court
existed. A right under the Constitution of the United States
was specially set up and the right was denied. Was it set up
in time? It has been repeatedly decided by this court that
to suggest or set up a Federal question for the first time in a
petition for a rehearing in the highest court of a State is not
in time. Texas & Pacific Railway v. Southern Pacific Railroad, 137 U. S. 48, 54; Butler v. Gage, 138 U. S. 52; iMinona
& St. Peter Railroad v. Plainview, 143 U. S. 371; Leeper v.
Texas, 139 U. S. 462; Loeber v. Schlroeder, 149 U. S. 580.
In all of these cases the Federal question was not presented
in any way to the lower court nor to the Higher court until
after judgment. It is not, therefore, decided that a presentation to the lower court at some stage of the proceedings and
in accordance with its procedure, and a presentation to the
higher court before judgment, would not be sufficient.
In -oeber v. Schroeder the Court of Appeals of Maryland,
having before it for review a judgment of one of the lower
state courts, reversed such judgment, and, having denied a
rehearing on April 28, 1892, issued its order for a flerifacias
against Loeber for the amount of the judgment decreed
returnable to the lower court. On April 29, 1892, Loeber
entered a motion before that court to quash the writ because
the decree on which the writ was issued and the writ were
void, because said writ would deprive him of his property
without due process of law, and because it was issued in violation of the Constitution of the United States and amendments
thereto. The motion was denied and Loeber prosecuted an

MEYER v. RICHMOND.
Opinion of the Court.

appeal which affirmed the order of the lower court, holding
that the state law upon which it had made its decision was
not in conflict with the Constitution of the United States.
From this judgment of the Court of Appeals, Loeber prosecuted a writ of error to this court assigning the unconstitutionality of the state law sustained by the Court of Appeals.
Mr. Justice Jackson, who delivered the opinion of the court,
said: "The motion to quash the ft. fa. in this case on the
grounds that the order of the Court of Appeals, which directed
it to be issued, was void for the reasons assigned, stood on no
better footing than a petition for rehearing would have done,
and suggested Federal questions for the first time, which, if
they existed at all, should have been set up and interposed
when the decree of the Court of Appeals was rendered on
January 28, 1892." In other words, should have been urged
when the case was pending and before its decision. It is an
inference from the opinion that, if this had been done, the
Federal question would have been claimed in time.
In Chicago, Burlington &c. Railroad v. Ohicago, 166 U. S.
226, the right under the Constitution of the United States
was claimed by plaintiff in error after verdict and in a motion
to set aside the verdict and to grant a new trial. It -istrue
that in that case, being a proceeding to condemn land under
the eminent domain act of the State of Illinois, no provision
was made for an answer, but this accounts for some but not
all of the language of the decision. Mr. Justice Harlan,
speaking for the court, said: "It is not, therefore, important
that the defendant neither filed or offered to file an answer
specially setting up or claiming a right under the Constitution
of the United States. It is sufficient if it appears from the
record that said right was specially set up or claimed in the
state court in such manner as to bring it to the attention of
that court." But he said further: "But this is not all. In
the assignment of errors filed by the defendant in the Suprene
Court of Illinois these claims of rights under the Constitution
of the United States were distinctly reasserted."
The similarity of that case to the case at bar is apparent.
In both, the constitutional right was claimed in such manner

OCTOBER TERIM, 1898."
Opinion of the Court.

as to bring it to the attention of the lower court, and its decision was necessarily adverse to such right. In both it was
reasserted in the assignment of errors to the higher court,, and
there again in both the effect of the judgment was to declare
the right not infringed by the proceedings in the case. This
court, therefore, has jurisdiction, and we proceed to the consideration of the merits.
The plaintiff's constitutional claim is under that provision
of the Fourteenth Amendment, which prohibits a State from
depriving any person of property without due process of law,
and he avails himself of it by the contention (which we give
in his own language):
"That under the constitution and laws of the State of Virginia, the free and uninterrupted use of highways, once dedicated to and accepted by the public, or acquired by the right
of eminent domain, are for continuous public use, and that,
when relying upon that fact, important public and private
property rights have been acquired, the highway cannot be
permanently diverted to a private use without proper compensation being made to those injured, and as a consequence, any
person or persons so diverting such highway are trespassers
and liable in damages to the parties injured."
*The proposition is very general. To make it available to
plaintiff in error it must be held to cover and protect an owner
whose property abuts on one part of a street from damage
from obstruction placed in another part of the street and not
opposite his property - not only a physical taking of his property, but damages to it -not only direct damages, but consequential damages. All of these aspects of the proposition
seem to be rejected by the decision of the Supreme Court of
Appeals of Virginia on the plaintiff's petition for writ of error.
The petition submitted for decision the power of the city of
Richmond to make or authorize the obstruction complained
of under its charter, and the constitution and laws of Virginia
as well as the prohibition of the Constitution of the United
States. If the decision necessarily passed on and denied the
latter as we hold it did, and hence entertain jurisdiction to
review its judgment, it necessarily passed on and denied the

11EYER v. RICHMOND.
Opinion of the Court.

former. If under the constitution and laws of Virginia whatever detriment he suffered was damnum, absque injuria, he
cannot be said to have been deprived of any property. Marchant v. PennsylvaniaRailroad,153 U. S. 380.
The plaintiff quotes TWestern, Union, Telegraph Co. v. William, 86 Virginia, 696; Hodges v. Railroad Co., 88 Virginia,
636; .Nofolk City v. Chamberlain,29 Gratt. 653; Buntin v.
Danville, 93 Virginia, 200. The case at bar is not within the
principle of these cases. These were concerned with erections
immediately in front of the abutting owner's property, and it
was held that he owned to the middle of the highway, subject
only to the easement of the latter; that it was for the easement only for which he was compensated, and that any other
use was an additional servitude and its authorization illegal
unless paid for.
In Home Building &ec. Co. v. Roanoke, 91 Virginia, 52, the
city of Roanoke authorized the erection of a bridge across a
street in the city and itself constructed the approaches to it.
These approaches were sixteen feet high and thirty-five wide,
but did not extend to either side of the street, but left on each
side about seven and one half feet unoccupied on Randolph
street, on which the complainant's lot was situated, available
for its use and that of the public, It was held that the city
was not liable.
The substantial thing is not that one may be damaged by
an obstruction iii a street-not that one may be specially
damaged beyond others, but is, such damage a deprivation
of property within the meaning of the constitutional provision ? According to the Virginia cases an additional servitude may be said to be another physical appropriation, and
hence another taking, and must be compensated. But the
plaintiff's case is not within this doctrine, nor is there anything in the decisions of Virginia which makes consequential damages to property a taking within the meaning of
the constitution of that State. Decisions in other States we
need not resort to or review. Those of this court furnish
a sufficient guide. Transportation,Co. v. Chicago, 99 U. S.
635; Chicago v. Taylor, 125 U. S. 161; fkIarchant v. Penn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

sylvania Railroad, 153 U. S. 380; Gibson v. United States,
166 U. S. 269.
In Tqransportation Company v. Chicago, it was decided
"that acts done in the proper exercise of governmental power
and not directly encroaching on private property, though their
consequences may impair its use, are universally held not to
be a taking within the meaning of the constitutional provision." Removing any apparent antagonism of this proposition to Pampelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166, and Eaton
v. Boston, COenord & -Montreal1ailroad Co., 51 N. H. 504,
it was further said that in those cases "the ext'remest qualification of the doctrine is to be found, perhaps," and they were
discriminated by the fact that in them there Was a permanent
flooding of private property, hence a "taking -"a
physical
invasion of the real estate of the owners and a practical ouster
of his possession."
In (1hicag6 v. Taylor, Taylor sued to recover damages sustained by reason of the construction by the city of a viaduct
in the immediate vicinity of his lot. The construction of the
viaduct was directed by special ordinances of the city council.
The facts were:
",For many years prior to, as well as at, the time this viaduct was built, the lot in question was used as a coal yard,
having upon it sheds, machinery, engines, boilers, tracks and
other contrivances required in the business of buying, storing
and selling coal. The premises were long so used, and they
were peculiarly well adapted for such business. There was
evidence before the jury tending to show that, by reason of
the construction of the viaduct, the actual market value of the
lot, for the purposes for which it was specially adapted, or for
any other purpose for which it was likely to be used, was
materially diminished, access to it from Eighteenth street
being greatly obstructed, and at sdme points practically cut
off; and that, as a necessary result 'of this work, the use of
Lumber street, as a way of approach to the coal yard by its
occupants and buyers, and as a way of exit for teams carrying
coal from the yard to customers, was seriously impaired.
There was, also, evidence tending to show that one of thd

MEYER v. RICHMOND.
Opinion of the Court

results of the construction of the viaduct, and the approaches
on either side of it to the bridge over Chicago River, was that
the coal yard was often flooded with water running on to it
from said approaches, whereby the use of the premises as a
place for handling and storing coal was greatly interfered with,
and often became wholly impracticable.
"On behalf of the city there was evidence tending to show
that the plaintiff did not sustain any real damage, and that
the inconveniences to occupants of the premises, resulting from
the construction and maintenance of the viaduct, were common to all other persons in the vicinity, and could not be the
basis of an individual claim for damages against the city."
There was a verdict and judgment against the city, and
this was sustained. The tenor of the decision is, that the
damages were consequential, and the difference of the ruling
from that in TransporationrCo. v. Chicago was explained and
based upon a change in the constitution of the State of Illinois,
which enlarged the prohibition to the damaging as well as to
the taking of private property for public use, and its interpretation by the Supreme Court of the State "that it does not
require that the damage shall be caused by a trespass, or an
actual physical invasion of the owner's real estate; but if the
construction and operation of the improvement is the cause of
the damage, though consequential, the party may recover."
In Alarchant v. Pennaylvania Railroad Co., the plaintiff
owned a lot on the north side of Filbert street, Philadelphia;
the railroad erected an elevated railroad on the south side of
the street and opposite plaintiff's property. It was held by the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, reversing the trial court,
that for the damages hence resulting the plaintiff could not
recover. The case was brought to this court by writ of error,
the plaintiff urging that her property had been taken without
due pracess of law. The judgment was affirmed. The court,
by Justice Shiras, said:
" In reaching the conclusion that the plaintiff, under the
admitted facts in the case, had no legal ,cause of action, the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania was called upon to construe
the laws and constitution of that State. The plaintiff pointed
VOL. CLXX-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1898:
. Opinion of the Court

to the tenth section of article 1 of the constitution, which
provided that ' private property shall not be taken or applied
to public use, without authority of law, and without just compensation being first made or secured;' and to the eighth
section of article 16, which contains the. following terms:
'Iunicipal and other corporations and individuals invested
with the privilege of taking private property for public use
shall make just compensation for property taken, injured or
destroyed, by the construction or enlargement of their works,
highways or improvements, which compensation shall be paid
or secured before such taking, injury or destruction.'
"The first proposition asserted by the plaintiff, that her
private property has been taken from her without just compensation having been first made or secured, involves certain
questions of fact. Was the plaintiff the owner of private property, and was such property taken, injured or destroyed by a
corporation invested with the privilege of taking private property for public use? The title of the plaintiff to the property
affected was not disputed, nor that the railroad company was
a corporation invested with the privilege of taking private
property for public use. But it was adjudged by the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania that the acts of the defendant which
were complained of did not, under the laws and constitution
of the State, constitute a taking, an injury, or a destruction of
the plaintiff's property.
"We are not authorized to inquire into the grounds and
reasons upon which the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania proceeded in its construction of the statutes and constitution of
that State, and if this record presented no other question
except errors alleged to have been committed by that court
in its construction. of its domestic lws, we should be obliged
to hold, as has been often held in like cases, that we have no
jurisdiction to review the judgment of the state court, and
we should have to dismiss this writ of error for that reason."
In Gibsom v. United States, a dike was constructed in the
Ohio River under the authority of certain Acts of Congress for
the improvement of rivers and harbors. The construction of
said dike by the United States substantially destroyed the

MEYER v. IIOHMOND.
Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C.J., Gray, J.

landing of :Mrs. Gibson by preventing ingress and egress to
and from the landing on and in front of her farm to the main
or navigable channel of the river, - Held, damnum, absque
injuria. The court by the Chief Justice said: "The Fifth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States provides
that private property shall not be taken for public use without
just compensation. Here, however, the damage of which
Airs. Gibson complained was not the result of the taking of
any part of her property, whether upland or submerged or a
direct invasion thereof, but the incidental consequence of the
lawful and proper exercise of a governmental power."

Judgment aflrmed.
MR. CMEF JUSTIcE FULLER, with whom MR. JusTioE GRAY
concurred, dissenting on the question of jurisdiction.

I am of opinion that this writ of error should be dismissed.
The contention of plaintiff in error is that the validity of the
act of the general assembly of Virginia of May 24, 1870, was
drawn in question in the state courts on the ground of repugnancy to the Constitution of the United States, and that the
decision of the Court of Appeals was in favor of its validity.
The validity of a statute is drawn in question when the
power to enact it is denied, and a definite issue in that regard
must be distinctly deducible from the record in order for this
court to hold that the state courts have adjudicated as to the
validity of the enactment under the Constitution.
This case had gone to judgment, and a motion to set aside
the judgment had been made. and denied, before it was suggested that the act was inconsistent with the Federal Constitution. And that question was then attempted to be raised
by a second motion to vacate. But the disposal of motions of
this class is within the discretion of the trial court, and only
revisable by the appellate tribunal, if at all, when there is a
palpable abuse of discretion.
Whether the trial court, in this instance, overruled tho
second motion because a second motion of that sort, without
special cause shown, could not be entertained, or because of

OCTOBER TERI,

1898.

Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C.J., Gray, J.

unreasonable delay, it is iimpossible to say, and to impute to
that court the decision of a Federal question when it obviously
may have considlered that the point was presented too late,
seems to me wholly inadmissible. And although in his petition to the Court of Appeals, plaintiff in error recited the
action he had taken, and urged that the trial court had erred
in sustaining the demurrer to his declaration, and in refusing
to set aside the judgment so that the constitutional question
suggested might be passed on, that court, in the exercise of
appellate jurisdiction only, may well have concluded that the
discretion of the court below could not be interfered with.
It does not follow from the bare fact that this second motion
presented in terms a single point that that point was disposed
of in denying the motion, when other grounds for such denial
plainly existed.
It is thoroughly settled that if the record of the state courts
discloses that a Federal question has been raised and decided,
and another question, not Federal, broad enough to sustain
the judgment, has also been raised and decided, this court will
not review the judgment; that this is so, even when it does
not appear on which .of the two grounds the judgment was
based, if the independent groufid on which it might have been
based was a good and valid-one; and also where the record
shows the existence of non-Federal grounds of decision though
silent as to what particular ground was pressed and proceeded
on. In other words, the rule is that the record must so present a Federal question that, even if the reasons for decision
are not given, this court can properly conclude that it was disposed of by the state courts. If the conflict of 'a state law
with the Constitution and the decision by the state court in
favor of its validity are relied on, such decision must appear
on the face of the record before the judgment can be reexamined in this court.
In Elinger v. Missouri, 13 Wall. 257,.263, a juror had declined to take the test oath prescribed by the sixth section
of the second article of the constitution of Missouri of 1865,
and was discharged from the panel. It was insisted here that
he was thus excluded for no other reason than that he refused

MEYER v. RICHMOND.
Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C.3., Gray, J.

to take the oath, and, if this had been so, the question of the
repugnancy of the section to the Constitution of the United
States would have arisen. But as this court was of opinion
that, inasmuch as the grounds the juror assigned for his refusal manifested a settled hostility to the Government, he
might "well have been deemed by the court, irrespective of
his refusal to .take the oath, an unfit person to act as a juryman, and a participant in the administration of the laws ;" it
was held that "it certainly would have been in the discretion
of the court, if not its duty, to discharge him." And Mr.
Justice Bradley, delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"In this case it appears that the court below had a good and
valid reason for discharging the juror, independent of his
refusal to take the test oath; and it does not appear but that
he was discharged for that ground. It cannot, therefore, with
certainty, be said that the Supreme Court of Missouri did
decide in favor of the validity of the said clause of the state
constitution, whieh requires a juror to take the test oath."
There was nothing in the record to show on what ground the
trial court excluded the juror, or that the point urged in this
court was taken in the Supreme Court of. the State, and yet
because the trial court might have discharged the juror as
matter of discretion, or becaus6of unfitness in the particular
suggested, this court decided that its jurisdiction could not be
maintained, and the writ of error was dismissed. And see
Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S.300; Dibble v. Bellingham Bay
Land Co., 163 U. S.63.
We have held that the questibn whether a party has by laches
and acquiescence waived the right to insist that a state statute
impaired the obligation of a contract is not a Federal question.
Pierce v. Somerset Railway Comany, 171 U. S.6411.
And, certainly, in view of the careful language of ยง 709
of the Revised Statutes, we ought not to take jurisdiction to
revise a judgment of a state court, where a party seeks to
import a Federal question into the record, after judgment, by
an application so palpably open to decision on non-Federal
grounds. I am authorized to state that Mr. Justice Gray
concurs in this dissent.

