OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

before the bill was sworn to) the auditor added the ten per
cent and certified to the sheriff the amount of the tax assessed
with that addition; and that the sheriff." since said date" had
demanded payment of both sums from the plaintiff; and the
affidavit filed with the bill on March 26, 1895, shows that the
sheriff's levy on one of the plaintiff's engines was mnade after
the bill was sworn to.
The only reasonable inference from these vague allegations
of the bill is that the auditor waited for more than thirty days,
after giving the plaintiff notice of the decision of the board of
public works, in order to afford full opportunity for an appeal
from that decision; and that no penalty was imposed for
delay in payment of the taxes, nor any active measure taken
to enforce them, until it had become clear that the plaintiff
did not intend to take such an appeal.
The plaintiff, upon its own showing, having made no attempt
tb avail itself of the adequate remedies provided by the statute
of the State for the review of the assessment complained of,
is not entitled to maintain this bill.
-Decreeafflrmed.
UNITED STATES v. WARDWELL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. M8.Argued October 20, 1898. -Decided

November 28, 1898.

Three cheques were drawn in June, 1869, by authorized army officers upon
the Assistant Treasurer of the United States in New York, in favor of
Wardwell and in payment of his lawful claims against the United States.
These cheques, while in his possession, were lost or destroyed, presumably in a depredation made on his house by hostile Indians in 1872. Not
having been presented for payment, the amount of these cheques was
covered into the Treasury in pursuance of the statutes of the United
States, and was carried to the account of "outstanding liabilities."
Wardwell having died, his adminitratrix applied to the Treasury for
payment of the cheques by the issue of.Treasury warrants, under the
authority conferred by Rev. Stat. §§ 306, 307, 808. This payment being
refused, this suit was brought in the Court of Claims in April, 1896, and
the statute of limitations was set up as a defence. Held, that the promise by the Government contained in the statute to hold money so paid
into the Treasury was a continuing promise available to plaintiff at any

S49

UNITED STATES v. WARDWELL.
Statement of the Case.

time she saw fit, to which full force should be given; that there was no
cause for a suit until after refusal of an application for a warrant, and
that then for the first time a claim for the breach of the contract accrued,
and the limitation, prescribed by Rev.Stat. § 1069, began to run.

THIS is an appeal from the Court of Claims. The facts as
found by that court are that in June, 1869, three cheques were
drawn in favor of William V. B. Wardwell, one by Major W.
B. Rochester, paymaster, United States Army, and two by
Major Y. I. Ludington, quartermaster, United States Army,
all drawn on the Assistant Treasurer of the United States in
New York, and in paynent of lawful claims of Wardwell
against the United States. Subsequently to the issue of the
cheques and while still in the possession and ownership of
Wardwell they were lost or destroyed, probably in a depredation committed on his house by Indians in the year 1872.
None of the cheques having been presented for payment the
amounts thereof were covered into the Treasury of the United
States and carried to the account of "qutstanding liabilities"
in pursuance of the act of May 2, 1866, now sections 306 and
following, Revised Statutes, the entry on the books of the
Treasury (as shown by a report made by the Secretary of the
Treasury to the House of Representatives) being as follows:
Name.

Period.

Balance due
United States.

Balance due from
United States.

W. V. B. Wardell ........
William V. B. Wtrdwell..
Do.

1872
1872
1872

......
......
......

$461 87
500 00
1,017 30

No part of the same has ever been paid. Wardwell is dead
and the claimant is his duly appointed-and acting administratrix. As such she in 1890 applied to 'the Treasury Depart
ment for payment of the cheques by the issue of Treasury
warrants and at the same time filed a bond of indemnity, with
sufficient sureties, for duble the amounts thereof, to secure
the United States against a possible second demand for payment. The First Comptroller of the-Treasury declined to perVOL. cLxx-4

50

OCTOBER -TERM, 1898.
Statement of the-Case.

mit the settlement of a new account or the issue of warrants
in favor of the claimant. Thereafter, and on April 10, 1896,
she commenced this suit. As a conclusion of law the court
found that the statute of limitations did not begin to run
until the 14th day of April, .1890, the time when the accounting officers of the Treasury refused to recognize the claimant's
demand, and that she was entitled to recover the amount of
the three cheques, and on the 11th day of January, 1897,
entered judgment for that amount. From such judgment the
United States appealed to this court.
Section 1069, Revised Statutes, provides:
"Every claim against the United States, cognizable by the
Court of Claims, shall be forever barred unless the petition
setting forth a statement thereof is filed in the court, or transmitted to it by the secretary of the Senate or the clerk of the
House of Representatives as provided by law, within six years
after the claim first accrues: Provided, That the claims of
married women first accrued during marriage, of persons
under the age of twenty-one years -first accrued during minority, and of idiots, lunatics, insane persons and persons beyond-the seas at the time the claim accrued, entitled to the
claim, shall not be barred if the petition be filed in the court
or transmitted, as aforesaid, within three years after the disability has ceased; but no other disability than those enumerated shall prevent any claim from being barred, nor shall any
of the said disabilities operate cumulatively."
The act of May .,1866, c. 70, is entitled "An Act to facilitate the Settlement of the Accounts of the Treasurer of the
United States, and to secure certain Moneys to the People of
the United States, or to Persons to whom they are due, and
who are entitled to receive the same." 14 Stat. 41.
This was carried into the Revised Statutes as sections 306
and following. Sections 306, 307 and 308 read:
"SEc. 306. At the termination of each fiscal year all
amounts of moneys that are represented by certificates, drafts
or cheques, issued by the Treasurer, or by any disbursing officer
of any department of the government, upon the Treasurer or
any Assistant Treasurer or designated depositary of the United

UNITED STATES v. WA1RDWELL.
Counsel for Appellants.

States, or upon any national bank designated as. a depositary
of the United States, and which shall be represented on the
of any
books of either of such offices as standing to the credit
disbursing officer, and which were issued to facilitate the payment of warrants, or for any other purpose in liquidation of a
debt due from the United States, and which have for three
years or more remained outstanding, unsatisfied and unpaid,
shall be deposited by the Treasurer, to be covered into the
Treasury by warrant and to be carried to the credit of the
parties in whose favor such certificates, drafts or che4ues were
respectively issued, or to the persons who are entitled to receive pay therefor, and into an appropriation account to be
denominated ' outstanding liabilities.'
"SEe. 307. The certificate of the Register. of the Treasury,
stating that the amount of any draft issued by the Treasurer
to facilitate the payment of a warrant directed to him for
payment has remained outstanding and unpaid for three years
or more, and has been deposited and covered into the Treasury
in the manner prescribed by the preceding section, shall be,
when attached to any such warrant, a sufficient voucher in satisfaction of any such warrant or part Qf any warrant, the same
as if the drafts correctly endorsed and fully satisfied were
attached to such warrant or part of warrant. And all such
moneys mentioned in this and in the preceding section shall
remain as a permanent appropriation for the redemption and
payment of all such outstanding and unpaid certificates, drafts
and cheques.
"SEC. 308. The payee or the bonaftd holder of any draft
or cheque the amount of which has been deposited and covered
into the Treasury pursuant to the preceding sections, shall, onpresenting the same to the proper officer of the Treasury, be
entitled to have it paid by the settlement of an account and
the issuing of a warrant in his favor, according to the practice
in other cases of authorized and liquidated claims against the
United States."
.M'. George Hines Gorman for appellants.

Attorney General Pradt was on his brief.

.Xr. Assistant

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.

52

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. George A. -Ying for appellee.
was on his brief.

MR. JUSTICE

BREWER,

.Mr.Edward E.

olman

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Section 1069, Revised Statutes, is-not merely a statute of
limitations but also jurisdictional in its nature, and limiting
the cases of which the COurt of Claims can take cognizance.
.Finnv. United States, 123 U. S. 227.
Counsel for the government contend that the claim against
the United States first accrued in 1869, when the cheques were
issued, or, if not then, at least in 1872, when they were lost
or destroyed, and, therefore, this being twenty-four years before the commencement of this suit, that the claim was barred.
If there were nothing to-be considered but the single section
referred to it would be difficult to escape this conclusion of
counsel.
It is further contended that sections 306, 307 and 308 relate
to what is simply a matter of bookkeeping, and do not in any
manner change the scope of the liability of the Government.
But we are of the opinion that they mean somdthing more.
While it may be that they do not provide for the creation
of an express trust, liability for which, according to general
rules, continues until there is a direct repudiation thereof, yet
they contain a promise by the Government to hold the money
thus covered into the Treasury for the benefit of the owner
until such time as he shall call for it. This is a continuing
promise, and one to which full force and efficacy should be
given. If bookkeeping was the only matter sought to be
provided for, there were no need of section 308. That prescribes payment, and payment in a particular way. The
payee does not simply surrender his cheque and ieceive money;
but "on presenting the same to the proper officer" he is
"entitled to have it paid by the settlement-of an account and
the issuing of a warrant in his favor." This may be mere
machinery for payment, but it is machinery not used or required until after the money has been "covered into the

UNJITED STATES v. WARDWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

Treasury by warrant" and "carried to the credit" of the
payee. The right given is the right to surrender the cheque
and receive a warrant on the Treasury. It will also be noticed
that the purpose of the act of 1866 was, as expressed in its
title, not merely to "facilitate the settlement of the accounts
of the Treasurer of the United States," not merely to perfect
a system of bookkeeping, but also "to secure certain moneys
.

.

.

to persons to whom they are due, and who are entitled

to receive the same." And the deposit by the Treasurer is
not of a gross amount to be applied to any claims that may
arise, but of the amount due for certain specified cheques and
drafts. In other words, the purpose of the government by
this statute is to secure to each party who holds government
paper the amount thereof, to place it in the Treasury to his
credit, and to prescribe a method by which whenever he wishes
he can obtain it. No time is mentioned within which he must
apply for a warrant or after which the money is forfeited to
the Government. The ordinary rules for the maturity of
negotiable paper do not control. Congress has directed that
the money already once appropriated and chequed against
shall be placed in the Treasury and held subject to the call of
the party for whose benefit it has been so appropriated and
chequed. There is no occasion for suit until after his application for a warrant is refused. When the contract created by
the promise made in section 308 is broken, then a claim for
the breach of such contract first accrues, and the limitation
prescribed by section 1069 begins to run. There is thus no
conflict with that section- Its full force is not impaired.
In this connection it may be not amiss to notice those authorities in which it is held that upon the ordinary deposit of
money with a bank no action will lie until a demand has been
made, by cheque or otherwise, and that hence the statute of
limitations will not begin to run until after a refusal to pay
on such demand. In Downes v. Tlie Phmnix Bank of Charlestown, 6 Hill, 297, 300, Bronson, X., delivered the opinion of
the court, and, after referring to the ordinary rule that where
there is a promise-to pay on demand the bringing of an action
is a sufficient demand, and criticising it as illogical, added:

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"The rule ought no*t to be extended to cases which do not
fall precisely within it. Here, the contract to be implied from
the usual course of the business is, that the banker shall keep
the money until it is called for. Although it is not strictly a
bailment, it partakes in some degree of thatcharacter."
See also JonsoA n .v. Fwa',ers' Bank, 1 Harrington (Del.),
117; Watson v. Phenix Bank, 8 Met. (Mass.), 217-221.
In DickinsoW v. Savings Bank, 152 Mass. 49, 55, it was
held that the. statute of limitations would not begin to, run
in favor of the bank and against a depositor until there had
been something equivalent to a refusal on the part of the bank
to pay, or a denial of liability.
In Girdrd Bank v. Penn Township Bank, 39 Penn. St.
92, 98, 99, the holder of a certified cheque was the plaintiff,
and, the cheque having been outstanding more than six years,
the statute of limitations was pleaded; but the plea was not
sustained, the court, by Strong, J., saying, in respect to the
case of an ordinary deposit:
"Were this a suit against the Bank of Penn Township by
the original depositor the statute of limitations would be interposed in vain, not so much because a bank is a technical
trustee for its depositors, as for the reason that the liability
assumed by receiving a deposit is to pay when actual demand
-shall be made. The engagement of a bank with its depositor
is not to pay absolutely and immediately, but when payment
shall be required at the banking house. It becomes a mere
custodian, and is not in default or liable to respond in damages
until demand has been made and payment refused. Such are
the terms of the contract implied in the transaction of receiving money on deposit, terms necessary alike to the depositor
and the banker. And it is only because such is the contract,
that the bank is not under the obligation of a common debtor
to go after its customer and return the deposit wherever he
may be found. Hence it follows that no right of action exists,
and the statute of limitations does not begin to run until the
demand stipulated for in the contract has been duly made."
And the rule thus announced in respect to ordinary deposits
was held to apply in case of a certified cheque:

UITED STATES v. WARDWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

"When a cheque payable to bearer, or order, is presented
with a view of its being marked 'good,' and is so certified,
the sum mentioned in it imaust necessarily cease to stand to
the credit of the depositor. It thenceforth passes to the
credit of the holder of the cheque, and is specifically appropriated to pay it when presented, and as the purpose of having it so certified is not to obtain payment, but to continue
with the bank the custody of the money, the.holder can have
no greater rights than those of any other depositor. Certainly
he has no right of action until payment has been actually
demanded and refused."
In Morse on Banks and Banking, page 40, 2d ed., the author
says:
"We have already seen -thatit is a contract specially modified by the clear legal understanding that the money shall be
forthcoming to meet the order of the creditor whenever that
order shall be properly presented for payment. It follows,
therefore, that this demand for payment is an integral and
essential part of the undertaking, it may be said, even of the
debt itself. In short, the agreement of the bank with the
depositor, as distinct and valid as if written and executed
under the seal of each of the parties, is only to pay upon
demand; accordingly, until there has been such demand, and
a refusal thereto, or until some act of the depositor, or some
act of the bank made known to the depositor, has dispensed
ivith such demand and refusal, the statute ought not to begin
to run, nor should any presumption of payment be allowed to
arise."
It is not meant to be asserted that the authorities are unanimous on this question; on the contrary, there is a diversity of
opinion. It is sufficient for the purposes of this case to notice
that the rule finds support in the decisions of many courts of
the highest standing. It is not inconsistent with the proposition laid down by this court in -Marine Bank v. Fulton Bank,
2 Wall. 252, and often reaffirmed, Phwnix Bank v. Risley,
111 U. S. 125, and cases cited in opinion, to the effect that the
relation between a bank and its depositor is that of debtor
and creditor and nothing more, for that proposition throws

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court. •

no light upon the question when the debt of the debtor
becomes due, and when the statute of limitations begins to
run. Neither is it pretended that the relation of the United
States to this petitioner was that of bank and depositor, but
the reasoning of the authorities cited strengthens the conclusion that when Congress declared that this money should be
covered into the Treasury to the credit of the plaintiff, and
that she should, on presentation of the cheques to the proper
officer of the Treasury, be entitled to a settlement of an account and the issue of a warrant, it was the intention to recognize a continuing obligation- one which was available to the
plaintiff at any time she saw fit, that it was a promise which
was not broken until after demand and refusal.
But authority more in point is not wanting to sustain these
views. The direct tax act of August 5, 1861, c. 45, 12 Stat.
292, provided, in the thirty-sixth section, that, in case of a
sale of real estate, and a surplus remaining after satisfying
the tax, costs, etc., such surplus should be paid to the owner,
or if he be not fouind, "then such surplus shall be deposited in
the Treasury of the United States, to be there held for the use
of the owner, or his legal representatives, until he or they shall
make application therefor to the Secretary of the Treasury,
who upon such applidation shall, by warrant on the Treasury,
cause the same to be paid to the applicant." In United Slates
v. Taylor, 104 U. S.216, the owner did not apply for the surplus until more than six years had elapsed from the closing up
of the sale and the deposit of the money in the Treasury, and
it was held that section 1069 did not bar his action, the court
observing-(p. 221):
"This section limits no time within which application must
be made for the proceeds of the sale. The Secretary of the
Treasury was not authorized to fix such a limit. It was his
duty, whenever the owner of the land or his legal representatives should apply for the money, to draw a warrant therefor

without regard to the period which had elapsed since the sale.
The fact that six or any other number of years had passed did
not authorize him to refuse payment.

The person entitled to

the money could allow it to remain in the Treasury for an in-

UNITED STATES v. WARDWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

definite period without losing his right to demand and receive
it. It follows that if he was not required to demand it
within six years, he was not required to sue for it within that
time.
"4A construction consistent with good faith on the part of
the United States should be given to these statutes. It would
certainly not be fair dealing for the Government to say to the
owner that the surplus proceeds should be held in the Treasury for an indefinite period for his use or that of his legal representatives, and then, upon suit brought to recover them, to
plead in bar that the demand therefor had not been made
within six years.
"The general rule is that when a trustee unequivocally repudiates the trust, and claims to hold the estate as his own,
and such repudiation and claim are brought to the knowledge
of the cestui que tst

in such manner that he is called upon to

assert his rights, the statute of limitations will begin to ruii
against him from the time such knowledge is brought home to
him, and not before.
"In analogy to this rule the right of the owner of the land
to recover the money which the Government held for him as
his trustee did not become a claim on which suit could be
brought, and such as was cognizable by the Court of Claims,
until demand therefor had been made at the Treasury. Upon
such demand the claim first accrued."
This was reaffirmed in United State8 v. Cooper, 120 U. S.
124. Counsel distinguish those cases from this in that there
the money came into the Treasury subject to an express trust
created by the act of Congress, which directed that it be there
held for the benefit of the owner, while here in the first instance there was a written promise by the Government, a
promise for which an appropriation had been made and upon
which a cause of action existed. But while there is a difference, we do not think it sufficient to create a different rule or
measure of liability. There is no new deposit when a cheque
is certified, but as shown by the opinion in Girard Bank v.
Bank of Penn Township, stpra, this fact works no change in

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

the rule. Whether the money to satisfy this liability was paid
in by some third party or already held .by the. Treasurer;
wJhether there was or was not any prior liability on the part
of the Government, in each case there was a declaration by
Congress that the money thus received or covered into the
Treasury should there be held for the benefit of and subject to
the call of the owner, and no time was specified within which
such call must be made. This was a distinct and separate
promise, creating a new liability, and the claim accrued when
this new liability matured. It matured when the claimant presented her cheques and, calling for warrants, was refused them.
The judgment is

GREEN BAY & MISSISSIPPI CANAL COMPANY
v. PATTEN PAPER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
I

No. 14. Argued January 18, 14, 1898.-

Decided November 28,1898.

No particular form of words or phrases in which a claim of Federal rights
must be asserted in a state court has ever been declared necessary by
this court; but it is sufficient, if it appears from the record that such
rights were specially set up or claimed there in such way as to bring the
subject to the attention of the state court.
Under the legislation and contracts set forth in the opinion of the court in
this case, the Water power incidentally created by the erection and maintenance of the dam and canal for the purpose of navigation in Fox River
is subject to control and appropriation by the United States, and the
plaintiff in error is possessed of whatever rights to the use of this incidental water power could be granted by the United States.
At what points in the dams and canal the water for power may be withdrawn, and the quantity which can be treated as surplus with due regard
to navigation, must be determined by the authority which owns and
controls that navigation.

Tmis was a suit brought, in 1886, in the circuit court of Outagamie County, Wisconsin, by the Patten Paper Company
and others, against the Kaukauna Water Company, the Green
Bay and Mississippi Canal Company and others. The object

