OCTOBER TERMt,

1898.

Syllabus.

which could only arise by reason of a trust; and second, that
the trustee alone could sue during the existence of the trust,
therefore, on the termination of the trust, the same doctrine
applies. Reduced to its last analysis, the doctrine now
announced is, I submit, really this: That the United States
could not recover whilst the trust existed because the trustee
must assert the right, and that it likewise could not recover
after the termination of the trust, and, hence, could not
recover at all. The result in effect concedes the existence
of a right of property, but holds that it cannot be protected
because the law affords no remedy. The maxim ubi jus, ibi
remedium lies at the very foundation of all systems of law,
and, because, as has been stated at the outset, I cannot believe that the common law departs from it, I refrain from
giving my assent to the conclusions of the court, and express
my reasons for dissenting therefrom.

GRANT v. BUOKNER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 89. Submitted November 29, 1S98.-Decided December 19, 1898.
Certain real estate in Louisiana, consisting of five plantations standing in
the name of J. Morgan, was community property. His wife died in
1844, leaving two childrenas.her heirs; and in 1858 Morgan conveyed all
the real, estate to his children and grandchildren. He died in 1860, and
in 1872 his creditors took proceedings to set aside the conveyance and to
subject his interest in the property to the payment of his debts. Their
contention was sustained by this court in Johnson v. Waters, 111 U. S. 640.
Then a receiver was appointed to take charge of bo.h interests in all
the property. The portion to which this suit relates was in the possession of Buckner, claiming under the conveyance made by Morgan in
1858. The receiver threatening to eject him, Buckner, in order to remain
in possession, took a lease of the whole plantation from the receiver. In
1891 it was decided in Mlellen v. .Bitckner,139 U. S. 388, that one undivided
half of the plantation belonged to Buckner, and that only the remaining
half was subject to the debts of Morgan, and that if the heirs should not
desire a severance of their portions, the whole should be sold and the
proceeds divided in accordance with the decree. The sale was made two

GRANT v. BUCKNER.
Opinion of the Court.
years later. Buckner paid the receiver rent for the whole plantation"
from 1884 to 1891, but paid nothing thereafter. This action was commenced by the receiver in a state court of Louisiana to recover from
Buckner rent for one half of the estate for 1891 and 1892, and one half
of the taxes thereon for those years. Buckner in reply claimed the right
to offset against the receiver's demand one half of the rent which he had
paid to him between 1884 and 1891, and asked for judgment against the
receiver for the surplus. The Supreme Court of Louisiana sustained
the offset and reserved to Buckner the right to recover the surplus. Held:
(1) That Buckner was entitled to set off against the rent unquestionably
due for the undivided half of the plantation for 1891 and 1892 one
half the ailount paid by him for rent between 1884 and 1891;
(2) That he was not precluded from obtaining the benefit of this right
in the state courts by the fact that the receiver was an officer of
the Federal court, or by any proceedings had in that court, as the
receiver voluntarily went into the state court;
(3) That the jurisdiction of the state court was clear, and its judgment
is affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
A .r.
J.

Rouse for plaintiff in error.

.Mr. Thomas Marshall Miller for defendant in error.
MRTh. JusTicE. BREwER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes on error to the Supreme Court of the State
of Louisiana. It is perhaps the last step in a, litigation which
has been going on for a quarter of a century, and which has
twice appeared in this court. Johnson v. lTaters, 111 U. S.
640; .Mellen v. Buckner, 139 U. S. 388. In those cases the
full story of the litigation is told. For the present inquiry it
is sufficient to note these facts: Prior to the late civil war
Oliver J. Morgan was. the owner of five plantations in the
State of Louisiana. His wife died intestate in 1844, leaving
two children as. her sole heirs. The property standing in his
name was community property. In 1858 he conveyed the
plantations to his children and grandchildren. The purpose
of this conveyance was, first, to secure to the grantees their
shares in the property as the heirs of his wife; and, secondly,
to make a donation from himself. Hie died in 1860. In 1872

OCTOBEtR TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

certain creditor of Morgan, creditors of him individually and
not of the community, brought suit in the Circuit Court of the
United States to set aside the conveyance, and subject his interest in the property to the payment of their debts. Their
contention was sustained by the Circuit Court, and its decree
was substantially affirmed by this court. Johnson v. Waters,
.supra. Thereafter, and in May, 1881, the Circuit Court appointed a receiver to take charge of all the property conveyed
by Morgan. Melbourne plantation was at the time in the
possession of the present defendant in error, claiming under
the conveyance made by Morgan in 1858. After the appointment of the receiver the defendant in error, rather than be
dispossessedl, leased from him the plantation. The litigation
continued, and, new parties being named, came before this court
again in 1889. .Mellen v. Buckner, supra. It was decided in
1891 that one undivided hal of the Melbourne plantation belonged to the defendant in error, and that only the remaining
half was subject to the debts of Morgan. The language of
the decree was: "The said heirs are entitled to have and
retain a certain portion of said Oliver J. Morgan's estate free
from the claims of his .creditors, as follows, to wit: two fifths
of the four plantations, Albion, Wilton, Westland and Morgana, are directed and decreed to be reserved for the benefit
to the heirs of Julia Morgan, deceased; and one half of Melbourne plantation is directed and decreed to be resefved for
'the benefit of the 'heirs of Oliver H. Kellam, Jr., deceased;
and that the remaining interest in the said plantations is
decreed and adjudged to be subject to the payment and satisfaction of the debts due to the administrator of said William
Gay," etc.; and further, after providing for other matters,
"hut if the heirs shall not desire a severance of their portions,
then the whole property to be sold, and they to receive theif
respective portions of the proceeds, but no allowance for building . Any moneys in the hands of the receiver, after paying
his expenses and compensation, are to be divided between the
creditors and heirs in :the proportions above stated, applying
the amount due to the heirs, so far as may be requisite, to the
costs payable by them." Two.years thereafter the interest of

GRANT v. BUCKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

-:M:organ in the plantation was sold in accordance with the
terms of the decree. The defendant had paid to the receiver
the rent of the entire plantation from 1884 up to the decree in
1891, but paid nothing thereafter. This action was commenced by the receiver in the district court of the seventh judicial .district for East Carroll Parish, Louisiana, to recover one
half the stipulated rent of the Melbourne- plantation for the
years 1891 and 1892, as well as one half of the taxes thereon
for those years. The defendant answered, .not questioning
his liability for the matters set forth in the petition, but alleging that between 1884 and 1891 be had paid the receiver rent
for the entire plantation, one half of which had been finally
adjudged to be his property, arid not subject to the claims of
creditors of Morgan, and prayed to set off the one half of the
rent wrongfully collected between 1884 and 1891 against the.
one half due for the years 1891 and 1892, and for a judgment
over against the receiver for any surplus. The trial court
sustained his defence so far as to decree a full set-off to the
claims of the receiver. The Supreme Court of the State
affirmed the trial court in this respect, but amended the judgment so "as to reserve the defendantsright to demand of and
recover from the plaintiff the residue of the amount of the
rents he has collected. in excess of the sum actually due by
the defendant, after a sufficiency thereof has been used to extinguish by compensation the demands of said receiver in this
suit." 49 La. Ann. 668. Whereupon the receiver sued out
this writ of error.
Two questions are presented: First, was the defendant
entitled to set off against the rent unquestionably due for the
undivided half of the plantation for 1891 and 1892, one half
the amount paid by him for rent between 1884 and 1891, on
the ground that it bad been finally adjudged that he was the
owner of one undivided half of the plantation, and therefore
thatthe receiver had improperly collected the rent therefor;
and, second, if he was entitled to such set-off, was he precluded from obtaining the benefit of it in the state courts
by the fact that the receiver was an officer of the Federal
court, or by any proceedings had in that. court?

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The contention of the receiver is that the defendant's right
to one half of the plantation dates from the decree in 1891,
while the defendant insists that it dates from the conveyance
in '1858, and that the decree only determined a preexisting
right. We concur in the latter view. As a rule courts do
not create but simply determine rights. The adjudication
that -the defendant was entitled to an undivide& one half of
the plantation was neither a donation nor an equitable transfer of property in lieu of other claims. It was a determination of a prefxisting right, and that right dates and could
only date from the conveyance in 1858.
The conclusions of the Circuit Court of the United States,
fs expressed in an opinion and passed into a decree - a decree
not appealed from, and, therefore, final between the partiesare to the same effect. Such opinion and decree appear
in
the record. In the opinion, which was announced after the
decision of this court in 139 U. S., supra, it was said: "From
this last opinion and decree of the Supreme Court in the matter, we are forced to conclude that the portions of lands set
'off and adjudged to the heirs of Julia Morgan and heirs of
0. H. Kellam, Jr., were so set off and adjudged to them as
the owners thereof in their own right as the heirs of Julia
Morgan and 0. I. Kellam, Jr., who were the heirs of Narcisse
Deeson, the wife of Oliver J. Morgan, and not to them in any
way as the heirs of Oliver J. Morgan or as creditors or claimants of his estate. . . . The heirs of Julia Morgan and
Oliver H. Kellam, Jr., participated in the fund recovered in
the original case of Gay, Administrator,v. .Morgan, Eeoutor,
et a., -but the careful reading and consideration which we
have given the opinions and decrees of the Supreme Court,
and particularly the supplemental decree in all the cases consolidated, give us the firm impression that the court intended
to hold and declare that the portions recovered by said heirs
were theirs of right, and that they were to have them, not
only free of the claims of creditors of the estate of Oliver J.
Morgan, but free from all costs and claims except as in the
several decrees adjudged, and as thereafter might be necessary
in effecting partition." And in the decree it was among

GRANT v. BUCKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

other things adjudged that "so much of said decree- of June
2, 1893, as the same is of record herein, as charges or attempts
to charge the said John A. Buckner' and Etheline Buckner
as the owners of one half of Melbourne plantation, or that
attempts to charge their said one half of. said Melbourne
plantation with lien privilege to contribute to or recuse the
contribution of the sum of seven thousand three hundred and
forty-seven AT° dollars to the payment of costs, disbursements
and solicitors' fees allowed by the court in and for the prosecution of the bill and action in case No. 6612 of the cases
herein consolidated, be, and the same are, cancelled, abrogated,
annulled and taken from said decree, and that. the said John
A. Buckner and Etheline Bu~kner be, and are, now-decreed
to take and hold said one half of the said Melbourne plantation allotted to them free from said charge and liability for
said costs, disbursements and solicitors' fees charged 'against
them in said decree of June 2, 1893, as contribution to the
expenses of the prosecution of said cause No. 6612 and of the
causes herein consolidated." Obviously, the effect of this last
ddcree was to materially modify the terms of prior orders ana.
decrees, and to change the relations of the defendant as the
owner of one half of the Melbourne plantation to the receivership.
The provision in the decree of this court in reference to
the division between the creditors and the heirs of the
moneys in the hands of the receiver after paying his expenses
and compensation is one evidently applicable in case of the
sale of the entire property, and cannot be construed as charging against the defendants, the heirs of Mrs. Morgan, any share
of the costs incurred by the creditors of 'Mr. Morgan in their
efforts to subject his property to the payment of their debts.
Rents follow title, and the owner of fhe reality'is* the
owner of the rent. So that from 1884 to 1891, and while
the question of -title was in dispute, the defendant was paying
to the receiver rent for an undivided half of the plantation,
propert r which was absolutely his own, and which the receiver ought not to have had possession of. The rent thus
collected belonged to the defendant, and could not be taken

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

by creditors of Morgan or appropriated to pay the cost of
-their lawsuits, So it is that the receiver, having in his possession money belonging to the defendant, to wit, the rent
of one half the property from 1884 to 1891, now asks a
judgment which shall compel defendant to pay him a further
sum. This cannot be. This is not a case in which a defendant indebted to an estate, which is insolvent and can therefore
pay its creditors only a pro Tata amount, seeks to set off
a claim against the estate in absolute payment of a debt due
from bin to the estate, thus obtaining a full payment which
no other creditor can obtain. ' For here one undivided half
of the plantation was never the property of the estate vested
in the- receiver. It was wrongfully taken possession of by
him. The rent therefor all the while belonged to the defendant, and the receiyer holds it not as money belonging to the
estate but to the defendant. To allow him to keep that
money and still recover an additional sum from the defendant
would be manifestly unjust.
It is said in the brief that the court first acquiring jurisdiction has a right to continue its jurisdiction to the end.
We fail to see the application of this. The receiver voluntarily went into the 'state court, atid having voluntarily gone
there cannot question the right of that court to determine the
controversy between himself and the defendant. A similar
proposition was often affirmed in cases of bankruptcy, although
by section 711, Revised Statutes, the courts of the United
States are given exclusive jurisdiction "of all matters and
proceedings in bankruptcy." 71ays v. F 'itton, 20 Wall. 4141;
lVincester v. lleiskell, 119 U. S. 450, and cases cited in the
opinion. The same rule applies here. The question presented is-not how the estate belonging to the receiver shall be
administered, but what is the estate belonging to him. The
two questions are entirely distinct. Further, the right to sue
a receiver appointed by a Federal court without leave, of the
court appointing him is granted, by the act of August 13, 1888,
c. 866, .§ 3, 25 Stat. 436. A counterclaim or set-off comes
within the spirit of that act. And certainly no objection can
be made to 'the allowance of a set-off, when as here it is

BLAKE v. INUCLU-NG.
Syllabus.

simply in harmony with the decrees of the Federal court, and
in no manner questions their force or efficacy.
The jurisdiction of the state court is therefore clear, and the
judgment of the Supreme Court, of Louisiana is
Afftmed.

BLAKE v. MOLUNG.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 6: Submitted November 8,189T. -Decided

December 12, 1893.

Chapter 31 of the acts of Tennessee of 1877, entitled "An act to declare
the terms on which foreign corporations organized for mining or manufacturing purposes may carry on their business, and purchase, hold and
convey real and personal property in this State," provided that corporations organized under the laws of other States and countries, for purposes named in the act, might carry on within that State the business
authorized by their respective charters, but that " creditors who may be
residents of this State shall have a priority in the distribution of assets,
or subjection of the same, or any part thereof, to the payment of debts
over all simple contract creditors, being residents of any other country
or countries, and also over mortgage or judgment creditors, for all
debts, engagements and contracts which were made or owing by the said
corporations previous to the filing and registration of such valid mortgages, or the rendition of such valid judgments." Reld,that, as the litigation proceeded on the theory that plaintiffs in error were citizens of
Ohio, Where they resided, did business, and had offices, that question
could not nowbe considered; and as the manifest purpose of the act was to
give to all Tennessee creditors priority over all creditors residing out of
that State, without reference to the question whether they were citizens
or only residents in some other State or country, the act must be held
to infringe rights secured to the plaintiffs in error, citizens of Ohio, by
the provision of Sec. 2 of Art. IV of the Constitution declaring that
the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States, although, generally speaking, the
State has the power to prescribe the conditions upon which foreign
corporations may enter its territory for purposes of business.
It is not in the power of one State, when establishing regulations for the
conduct of private business of a particular kind, to give its own citizens
essential privileges, connected with that business, which it denies to
citizens of other States.
When the general property and assets of a private corporation, lawfully
doing business in a State, are in course of administration by the courts

