UNITED STATES v. BLISS.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. BLISS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLA!IMS.
Wo. 894. Submitted December12, 1898. -Decided

January 3, 1899.

The appellee's testator contracted with the United States in 1863 to construct war vessels. Owing to changes in plan and additional work required by the Government, the time of the completion of the work was
prolonged over a year, during which prices for labor and materials
greatly advanced. Full payment of the contract price was made, and
also of an additional sum for changes and extra work. In 1890 Congress
authorized the contractor's executor to bring suit in the Court of Claims
The act authorizing it contained this
for still further compensation.
proviso: "Provided, however, That the investigation of said claim shall
be made upon the following basis: The said court shall ascertain the
additional cost which was necessarily incurred by the contractors for
building the light-draught monitors Squando and Nauset and the sidewheel steamer Ashuelot in the completion of the same, by reason of any
changes or alterations in the plans and specifications required and delays
In the prosecution of the work: Provided, That such additional cost in
completing the same, and such changes or alterations in the plans and
specifications required, and delays in the prosecution of the work, were
occasioned by the Government of the United States; but no allowance
for any advance in the price of labor or material shall be considered
unless such advance occurred during the prolonged term for completing
the work rendered necessary by delay resulting from the action of the
Government aforesaid; and then only when such advance could not have
been avoided by the exercise of ordinary prudence and diligence on the
part of the contractors."
Held, that the petitioner's right of recovery
for advance in prices was limited to the prolonged term, and the Court
of Claims could not consider advances which took place during the term
named in the contract.
If a party neither pleads nor proves what has been decided by a court of
competent jurisdiction in some other case between himself and his antagonist, he cannot insist upon the benefit of res judicata, and this,
although such prior judgment may have been rendered by the same
court.

ON August 22, 1863, Donald -McKay contracted with the
United States for the construction of the gunboat Ashuelot,
the contract to be completed in eleven months from that date.
On account of changes and additional work required by the
Government, and other details for which it was responsible,
VOL cLxxx-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1898,
Statement of the Case.

the completion of the vessel was delayed from July 22, 1864,
to November 29, 1865, a period of sixteen months and seven
days beyond the contract term. 'Full payment of the contract
price was made and also of an additional sum for changes
and extra work. On August 30, 1890, Congress passed an act,
26 Stat. 12,7, c. 853, submitting to the Court of Claims the
claims of the executors of Donald McKay for still further compensation. Such act contains this proviso:
"Provided, however, That the investigation of said claim
shall be made upon the following basis: The said court shall
ascertain the additional cost which was necessarily incurred
by the contractors for building the light-draught monitors
Squando and Nauset and the side-wheel steamer Ashuelot in
the completion of the same, by reason of any changes or alterations in the plans and specifications required and delays in
the prosecution of the work: Provided, That such additional
cost in completing the same, and such changes or alterations
in the plans and- specifications required, and delays in the
prosecution of the work were occasioned by the Government,
of the United States; but no allowance for any advance in
the price of labor or material shall be considered unless such
advance occurred during the prolonged term for completing
the work rendered necessary by delay resulting from the
action of the Government aforesaid, and then only when
such advance could not have been avoided by the exercise of
ordinary prudence and diligence on the part of the contractors."
Under this act this suit was brought. Upon the hearing
the Court of Claims, in addition to the facts of the contract,
performance, time of completion and payment, found that "During the contract period ,of eleven months, and to some
extent during the succeeding sixteen months and seven days,
the Government made frequent changes and alterations in the
construction of the vessel and delayed in furnishing to the
contractor the plans and specifications therefor, by reason of
which changes and delay in furnishing plans and specifications
the contractor, without any fault or lack of diligence on his
part, could not anticipate the labor, nor could he know the

UNITED STATES v. BLISS.
Opinion of the Court.

kind, quality or dimensions of material which would be made
necessary to be used in complying with said changes:
"While the work was so delayed during and within the
period of the contract as aforesaid the price of labor and material greatly increased, which increased price thereafter continued without material change until the completion of the
vessel sixteen months and seven days subsequent to the expiration of the contract period. The increased cost to the contractor as aforesaid was by reason of the delays and inaction
of the Government and without any fault on his part:"
And rendered judgment in favor of the petitioner for.
among other things, the increased cost of the labor and material furnished by him, consisting of two items of $12,608.71
and $14,815.66. From this judgment the United States appealed to this court.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Pradt and Xr. Charles C.
Binney for appellants.
Yr. John S. Blair for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
No question is made except as to so much of the judgment
as is for the increased cost of labor and material. The allowance for that is challenged under the clause of the act of 1890,
"but no allowance for any advance in the price of labor or
material shall be considered -unless such advance occurred
during the prolonged term for completing the work rendered
necessary by delay resulting from the action of the Government aforesaid." The finding is that there was an advance
in the price of labor and material during the contract term of
eleven months, and that such increased price continued thereafter witho'it material change during the sixteen months and
seven days between the close of the contract term and the
actual completion of the vessel. Of course, but for the act of
August 30, 1890, no action could be maintained against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Government. The statute of limitations would have been a
complete defence. The petitioner's right, therefore, is measured, not by equitable considerations, but by the language of
that statute. Beyond that the court may not go. If equitably
the petitioner is entitled to more compensation, it must be
sought by direct appropriation or further legislation of Congress.
It seems to us clear that the Court of Claims was not permitted to consider any advance in the price of labor or
material during the term named in the contract, to wit, eleven
months. Evidently, Congress thought that the contractor
took the risk of such advance when he signed the contract.
The contract term is one thing; the prolonged term another.
If Congress intended to allow for all advanc6s in the price of
labor or material at any time between the execution of the
c6ntract and the completion of the work, the proviso quoted
was. unnecessary. The fact that the proviso discriminates as
to. the term, an advance during which entitles to allowance,
is conclusive upon the question: There are no terms to be
distinguished except the contract term of eleven months and
the subsequent prolonged term of sixteen months and seven
days. Of courseno change irr the price of labor and material
after the work was finished could have been considered, and
if Congress intended to either permit or forbid an allowance
for any advance in the prgjce of labor and material during the
entire progress of the work, .it
was easy to have said so.
That it qualified such a general provision by limiting it to a
particular term, and that term one created by the hction of
the Government, excludes all doubt as to the meaning of the
words "prolonged term." Obviously the petitionei himself
understood that they refer to the period commencing at the
time fixed in the contract for the completion of the work, for
in his petition it is said that "during the term specified by
the contract, and also through the prolonged term, there was
a continuous rise in the prices of all labor and material entering into said vessel and machinery." He did not then doubt
the meaning of the statute, and the only difficulty is that
according to the findings of the Court of Claims his proof did

UNITED STATES v. BLISS.
Opinion of the Court.

not establish all his allegations. We deem it unnecessary to
follow the investigation made by counsel of the various proceedings before Congress to see if there cannot be disclosed
some unexpressed intent on its part to authorize payment
for every advance in the cost of labor and material. The
language of the act is too plain to justify such investigation.
One other matter requires consideration: Attached to the
record certified to us by the Court of Claims is a stipulation
signed by the counsel for both parties, which stipulation commences in these words:
"It is hereby agreed by and between the parties to this
cause that the following facts appear in the records of the
Court of Claims, and that they may be added to the record
in this cause and be treated upon the hearing with the same
effect as if they had been included in the facts found by the.
Court of Claims."
This stipulation seeks to introduce into the record of this
case the proceedings of the Court of Claims in another suit
brought under the same act of 1890, by the same petitioner,
to recover additional compensation for the construction of a
vessel other than the one described in the present suit, and
this notwithstanding that this court is, at least in other than
equity cases, limited to a consideration of the facts found by
the Court of Claims. This additional record contains the
findings of facts in that case, the conclusion and judgment,
which was in favor of the petitioner, and states that such
judgment was not appealed from by either party. The tenth
finding of fact reads as follows:
"The cost to the contractor because of the enhanced price
of labor and material which occurred during*the prolonged
term for completing the work is $61,571.67. 'Said prolonged
term resulted from the delays of the defendants. The exercise of ordinary prudence and- diligence on. the part of the
contractor would not have avoided said enhanced price of
material and labor."

The final clause in this stipulation of counsel seeks to explain this tenth finding in this way:
"The $61,571.67 set forth in the tenth of the final findings

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

in the .irauset case (see X finding above) was composed of
$24,634: enhanced cost after February 10, 1864, the expiration
of the contract term for the construction of the Nauset, and
the remainder, $36,937.67, was enhanced cost of labor and
material furnished by Donald McKay within the contract
tera (June 10, 1863, to February 10, 1864), but the court did
not separate the allowance in its findings."
Upon this the doctrine of res judicata is invoked to uphold
the judgment. A: sufficient answer is that neither by pleadings nor evidence were the proceedings in this other case
brought before the Court of Claims in the present suit. If
a party neither pleads nor proves what has been decided by
a'court of competent jurisdictibn in some other case between
himself and his antagonist, he cannot insist upon the benefit
of res judicata,and this although such prior judgment may
have been rendered by the same court. Southern Pacific
Railroad v. United States, 168 U. S. 1, suggests nothing
contrary to this, for there the prior judgment was offered in
evidence, and the only. question considered and decided by
this court was the effect of an alleged failure to fully plead
res judioata.
But further, not only did the petitioner fail to either plead
or prove the former judgment, but also the record when produced disclosed that the court found that the advance in price
was during the prolonged term. Counsel propose by stipulation to change that finding so as to make it show that part
of the sum named therein was for the advance during the
contract term, and the other part for the advance during the
prolonged term. In other words, counsel seek without pleading or proof to use a prior judgment as res judicata, and also
by stipulation to change the findings of fact which were
made in that case. It is clear this cannot be done.
The judgment of the Court of Claims will be reversed, and
the ease remanded to that court with directions to enter
a judgment for the claimant, less the two amounts of
$12,608.71 and $14,815.66, the increasedcost of labor and
material.

