OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

Had the agreement been made with less deliberation or pending a peril more imminent our conclusion might have been
different.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Apeals must therefore be
reversed and the case remanded to the District Court for
the Eastern District of Texas with directions to execute
ite original decree.

UNITED STATES v. LO'UGHREY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SEVENTH

CIRCUIT.
,No. 22. Argued

and submitted April 21,1898. -Decided

December 12, 1898.

Under the act of June 3, 1856, c. 44, 11 Stat. 21, the State of Michigan took
the fee df the lands thereby granted, to be thereafter identified, subject
to a condition subsequent that, if the railroad, to aid in whose construction they were granted, should not be completed within ten years, the
lands unsold should revert to the United States; but, until proceedings
were taken by Congress to effect such reversion, the legal title to the
lands and the ownerslfip of the timber growing upon them remained in
the State, and the United States could not maintain an action of trespass
against a person unlawfully entering thereon, and cutting and removing
timber from the land so granted: and timber so cut and separated from
the soil was not the property of the United States, and did not become
such after acquisition of the lands by reversion; and the United States
could not avail themselves of the rule, that in an action of trover, a mere
trespasser cannot defeat the plaintiff's right to possession by showing a
superior title in a third, person, without showing himself in priority
with, or connecting himself with such third person.

Tins was an action originally begun by the United States
in the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, to
recover the value of timlber cut from the north half of the
northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of section thirteen,
township forty-four north, of range thirty-five west, in the
State of Michigan. The complaint charged the cutting of the
timber by one Joseph E. Sauve, and that he removed from
the lands- 80,000 feet of timber so cut and left the balance

UNITED STATES v. LOUGHREY.
Statement of the Case.

skidded upon the lands. The defendants were charged as
purchasers from Sauve. The amount of timber cut by Sauve
was alleged to have been 600,000 feet, and the time of the
cutting in the winter of i887-8 and prior to the first day of
March, 1888.
The case was tried by the court without a jury upon facts
stipulated as follows:
First. The defendants, prior to the first day of March, 1888,
cut and removed from the north half () of the northwest
quarter (NW. 4), and the northwest quarter (NW. 1) of the
northeast quarter (NE. 1.), and the southeast quarter (SE. 4)
of the northeast quarter (NE. -) of section thirteen (13), in
township forty-four (44) north, of range thirty-five (35) west,
in the State of Michigan, four hundred thousand (400,000) feet
of pine timber, and converted the same to their own use.
Second. That such cutting and taking of said timber by the
defendants from said land was not a wilful trespass.
Third. That none of the lands in question were ever owned
or held by any party as a homestead.
Fourth. That the value of said timber shall be fixed as follows: That the value of the same upon the laud or stumpage,
at $2.50 per thousand, board measure; that the value of the
same when cut and upon the land, $3.00 per thousand, board
measure; that the value of the same when placed in the river
-was $5.00 per thousand, board measure; that the value of the
same when manufactured was $7.00 per thousand, board
measure.
Fifth. That the lands above described were a part of the
grant of lands made to the State of Michigan by an act of the
Congress of the United States, approved June 3, 1856, being
chapter 44 of volume 11 of the United States Statutes at
Large, and that said lands were accepted by the State of
Michigan by an act of its legislature, approved February 14,
1857, being public act No. 126 of the laws of Michigan for
that year, and were a part of the lands of said grant within
the six-mile limit, so called, outside of the common limits, so
called, certified and approved to said State by the Secretary
of the Interior, to aid in the construction of the railroad men-

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

tioned in said act No. 126 of the laws of Michigan of 1857, to
run fromo
Ontonagon to the Wisconsin .state line, therein
denominated "The Ontonagon and State Line Railroad
Company."
The finding of facts by the court was ini accordance with
the foregoing stipulation, with the additional finding that said
railroad was never built and said grant of lands was never
earned by the construction of any railroad.
And as conclusions of law, the court found:
First. That the cause of action sued on in this case did not,
at the time of the commencement of this action. and does not
now, belong to the United States of America.
Second. That the defendants are entitled to judgment
herein for the dismissal of the complaint upon its merits.
No exceptions were taken to the findings of fact, and n9
further requests. to find were made. Exceptions were only
taken to the conclusions of law found by the court, and for
its failure to find other and contrary conclusions.
Upon writ of error sued out from the Circuit Court of
Appeals, the judgment of the Circuit Court dismissing this
complaint was affirmed. 84 U. S. App. 575.
Whereupon the. United States sued out a writ of error from
this court.
-Mr. Greorge Hines Gorman for plaintiffs in error.
Solicitor General was 6n his brief.
.Mr. I.
brief.

Mr.*

. Wbster for defendants. in error submitted on his

Mn. JUSTIcE- BRoww, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court:
To entitde the plaintiff to recover in this action, which is
substantially in ,rover, it is necessary to show a general or
special property in the timber cut, and a right to the possession of the same at the commencement, of the suit.
There is no question that the lands belonged to the United

UNITED STATES v. LOUGHREY.
Opinion of the Court.

States prior to June 3, 1856. By an act of Congress, passed
upon that date, 11 Stat. 21, c. 44, it was enacted that "there
be, and hereby is, granted to the State of Michigan, to aid in
the construction of railroads from Little Bay de Koquet to
Marquette, and thence to Ontonagon, and from the two last
named places to the Wisconsin state line," with others not
necessary to be mentioned, "ev e ry alternate section of land
designated by odd numbers; for six sections in width on
each side of each of said roads;
which lands
. . . shall be held by the State of. Michigan for the use

and purpose aforesaid: Provided, That the lands to be so
located shall in no case be further than fifteen miles from the
lines of said roads, and selected for, and on account of each.
of said roads: Provided, further, That the lands hereby
granted shall be exclusively applied in the construction of
that road for and on account of which said lands are hereby
granted, and shall be disposed of only as the work progresses,
and the same shall be applied to no other purpose whatsoever." By the third section' it was enacted that the "said
lands hereby granted to the said State shall be subject to the
disposal of the legislature thereof, for the purposes aforesaid,
and no other." Provision was made in the fourth section for
a sale, of the lands for the benefit of the railroads as they
were constructed. The last clause provided that "if any
of said roads is not completed within ten years no further
sales shall be made, and the lands unsold shall revert to the
United States."
1. Under this act the State of Michigan took the fee of the
lands to be thereafter identified, subject to a condition subsequent that if the roads were not completed within ten years
the lands unsold should revert to the United States. With
respect to this class of estates Professor Washburn says that
"so long as the estate in fee remains, the owner in possession
has all the rights in respect to it, which he would have if
tenant in fee simple, unless it be so limited that there is properly a reversionary right in another - something more than a
possibility of reverter belonging to a third person, when, perhaps, chancery might interpose to prevent waste of the premVo[. CLX=XI-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ises."

1 Wash. Real Prop. 5th ed. 95.

As was said in De

Peyster v. Xichael, 6 N. Y. 467, 506, a right of re~ntry "is
not a reversion, nor is it the possibility of reversion, nor is it
any estate in the land. It is a mere right or chose in action,
and, if enforced, the grantor would be in bjr a forfeiture of a
condition, and not by a reverter. . .
It is only by statute that the assignee of the lessor can reenter for condition
broken. But the statute only authorized the transfer of the
right, and did not convert it into a reversionary interest, nor
into any other estate. . . . When property is held on condition, all the attributes and incidents of absolute property
belong to it until the condition be *broken." Had the State
through its agents cut timber upon these lands, an action
would have lain by the United Stat6s upon the covenant of
the State that the lands should be held for railway purposes
only, and devoted to no other use or purpose; but the State
was not responsible for the unauthorized acts of a mere trespasser, and it was, no violation of its covenant that another
person had stripped the lands of its timber.
In the case of Schulenberg v. Harriman, 21 Wall. 44, an
act immediately preceding this, granting public lands to the
State of Wisconsin to aid in the construction of railroads in
that State, and precisely similar to this act in its terms, was
construed by this court as a grant in proxsenti of title to the
odd sections designated, to be afterwards located; that when
the route was fixed their location became certain, and the
title, which was previously imperfect, acquired precision and
became attached to the lands. As it is stipulated in this case
that the lands from which the timber was cut were a part of
the grant of June 3, 1856, to the State of-Michigan, and were
a part of the lands within the six-milb limit, certified and
approved to the State by'the Secretary of the Interior, no
question arises with respect to the identity of the lands.
The case of Schulenberg v. IHarriman was also an action
for timber cut upon lands granted to the State, against an
agent of the" State who had seized the logs, which had been
cut after the ten years had expired for the construction of the
railroad, 1but before any action had been taken by Congress

UNITED STATES v. LOUGHREY.
Opinion of the Court..

to forfeit the grant. The .complaint in the case-alleged property -and right of possession. in the plaintiffs. It was stipulated by the parties that the plaintiffs were in the quiet and
peaceable possession of the logs at the time of their seizure by
the defendants, and that 8uch possession should be conclusive
evidence of title in'the plaintiffs against evidence of title in a
stranger,- unless the defendant should connect himself with
such title by agency, or .authority in himself. The title of
the plaintiffs was not otherwise stated. It was held that the
title to the lands did not revert to the United States' after the
expiration of the ten years, in the absence of judicial proceedings in the nature of an inquest of office, or a legislative forfeiture,, and that until a forfeiture had taken place the lands
themselves and the timber cut from them were the property
of the State. Said Mtr. Justice Field, in delivering the opinion of the court, p. 64: "The title to the land remaining in
the State, the lumber cut upon the land belonged to the State.
Whilst the timber was standing it constituted a part of the
realty ; -being severed from the soil its character was changed ;
it became personalty, but its- title was not affected; i cohtinued as previously the property of the owner-of the land,
and could be pursued wherever it was carried. All. the remedies were open to the owner which the law affords in other
cases-of the wrongful removal or conversion of personal property."- The same rule regarding the construction of this identical laud grant was applied by this court in Lake Superior
Shi CanaZ &c. Co. v. Cunningham, 155 U. S.354. Indeed,
the principle is too well settled to require the citation of
authorities. The case of $S huZenberg v. Harriman,21 Wall.
44, differs from the one under consideration in the fact.that
no act forfeiting the grant was ever passed; but it is pertinent
as showing that under a statute preciselr-like 'the present the

title to the timber cut before such foLU.re is in the State
and not in the General Government.
It follows that* the United States, having no title to the
lands at the time of the trespass and no right to the*possession of the- timber, are in no position to maintain this suit.
lNeither a deed of-land nor an assignment of a patent for an

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
OpInion of the Court.

invention carries with it a right of action for prior trespasses
or infringements. Such rights of action are, it is true, now
assignable by the statutes of most of the States, but they
only pass with a conveyance of the property itself where. the
language is clear and explicit to that effect. 1 Chitty on
Pleading, 68; Gardner v., Adam8, 12 Wend. 297, 299; 0lark
.X. WiZson, 103 Mass. 219, 223; .Mloore v. Mar8h, 7. Wall. 515;
DibbZe v. Augur, 7 Blatchf. 86; Aferyiam v. Smith, 11 Fed.
Rep. 588; May v. Juneau County, 30 Fed. Rep. 241; K6aolatype'ErgravingCompany v. Hoke, 30 Fed. Rep. 444.
So where a landowner entrusts another with the possession
of his lands, either by lease, by contract to sell, or otherwise,
the right of action for trespasses committed during such
tehancy belongs to. the latter, and except under special circumstances an action for a trespass, such as the cutting of tim.
ber, will not lie in.favor of the landlrord. Grebaer v. Eleckner,
2 Penn. St. 289; Campbell v. Arnold, 1 Johns. 511; Tobey v.
.Webster, 3 Johns. 468; Cuts v. Spring, 15 Mass. 135; Lienow
v. R2itchie, 8 Pick. 235; Ward v. Macauley, 4 T. R. 489;
.Revett v. "Jrown,5 Bing. 7; Harperv. Charlemworth,4 B. & C.
574; Grahafm v. Peat,1 East, 244; Luzt v. Brown, 13 Main,
.236; 2 Greenlf. oi Ev. § 616.'
Although, as was said by Lord Kenyqn in Ward v. Jfacauley,
4 T. R. 489, "the distinction between the actions of trespass
and trover is well settled: The former are founded on possession ; the latter on property;" yet, they are concurrent remedies to the extent that, wherever trespass will lie for the
unlawful taking and conversion of personal property, trover
may also be maintained. The plaintiff is bound to prove a
right of possession in himself at tL time of the conve.rsion,
and if the goods are shown*to be in the lawful possession of
another by lease or sinilar contract, he cannot maititain trover
for them.. Smith v.... oner, 15 East, 607; Wheeler v. Train,
3 Pick. 255; Gordon v. Harper,7 T. R. 9; Ayer v. Bartlett,
9 Pick. 156; Tairbank v. Phelp8, 22 Pick. 535.
It does not aid the plaintiffs' case to take the position (the
soundness of which we by no means concede) that the State
held the lands as trustee,to deliver them over to the railroads

. UNITED STATES v. LOUGHREY.
Opinion of the Court.

upon certain contingencies, and to return them to the United
States in case the condition subsequent were not performed,
since nothing is better settled than that a trustee has the legal
title to the lands, and that actions at law for trespasses must
be brought by him, and by him alone. 1 Perry on Trusts,
see. 328, and cases cited; Fenn v. Tolnes, 21 How. 481.
Certain cases having a contrary bearing will now be considered. Several of these are to the effect that if a man leases
an estate for a term of years and the tenant unlawfully cuts
timber the lessor may sue in trespass, and perhaps in trover,
upon the ground that the title to the land remains in the lessor
during the pendency of the lease.
In Richard Liford's case, 11 Coke Rep. 46, which was an
action of trespass by a tenant against the agent of the owner
of the inheritance for certain trees cut, it was said "that
when a man demises his land for life or years the lessee has
but a particular interest in the trees, but the general interest
of the trees remains in the lessor; for the lessee shall have
the mast and fruit of the trees, and shadow for his cattle, etc.,
but the interest of the body of the trees is in the lessor as
parcel of his inheritanue; and this appears in 29 H. 8 Dyer, 36,
where it is held in express words that it cannot be denied that
the property of great trees, soil. the timber, is reserved by the
law to the lessor, but he cannot grant it without the termor's
license, for the termor has an interest in it, soil. to have the
mast and fruit growing upon it, and the loppiugs thereof for
fuel, but the very property of the tree is in the lessor as
annexed to his inheritance." Again, speaking of disseisin and
the respective rights of the disseisee and disseisor when the
former regains possession, it is said: "That after the regress
of the disseisee the law adjudges as to the disseisor himself,
that the freehold has continued in the disseisee, which rule
and reason doth extend as well to corn as to trees or grass, etc.
The same law, if the feoffee, or lessee, or the second disseisor,
sows the land, or cuts down trees or grass, and severs, and
carries away, or sells them to another, yet after the regress of
the disseisee, he may take as well the corn as the trees and
grass to whpat place soever they are carried; for the regress

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
'Opinion of the Court.

of the disseisee has relation as to the property, to continue
the freehold against them all in the disseisee ab initio, and
the carrying them out of the land cannot alter the property."
In Gordon v. Harper, 7 T. R. 9, it was held that where
goods had, been leased as furniture with a house, and had
been wrongfully taken in execution by the sheriff, the landlord could not maintain trover against the sheriff, pending
the lease, because he did not have the right of possession as
well as the right of property at the time. The case was distinguished from one where the thing was attached to the freehold, and the doctrine of liford's case was reiterated, that
where timber is cut down by a tenant for years the owner of
the inheritance may maintain trover for the timber notwithstAnding the lease, because the interest 'of the lessee in it
remained no longer' than while it was growing on' the premises and determined instantly when it was cut down. See
.also Mears v. 'London. & Southern Railway, 11 0. B. [N. S.]
850; Randall v. Cleavelaid, 6 Conn. .328; Elliot v. Smith, 2
N. H. 430; Starr v. Jackso??, 11 Mass. 519.
These cases obviously have no application to one where
there has been a conveyance of the fee of the land prior to
the cutting of the timber, and no reentry or analogous proceedingon the part of the vendor for a breach of a condition
subsequent.
The same distinction was taken in Farratv. Thompson
5 B. & Ald. 826, in which certain mill machinery, together
with the mill, had been 'demised for a term t6 a tenant, and
he,"without permission of his landlord, severed the machinery
from the mill, and it was afterwards seized under execution
by the sheriff and sold by him. It was held that no property
passed to the vendee, and the landlord was entitled to bring
trover for the machinery, even 'during the continuance of the
term, upon the ground that the machinery attached to the
mill was a part of the inheritance which the tenant had a
right to use, but not to sever or remove.
So in United States v. Cook, 19 Wall. 591, it was held that
ti'mber standing upon lands, occupied by Indians, cannot be
cut by them for the purposes of sale, although it may be for

UNITED STATES v. LOUGHREY.
Opinion of the Court.

the purpose of improving the land, as the Indians had only
the right of occupancy, and the presumption was against their
authority to cut and sell the timber. In such case the property in the timber does not pass from the United States by
severance, and they may maintain an action for unlawful
cutting and carrying it away. To the same effect is Wooden
WVare Co. v. United States, 106 U. S. 432.
In IFion v. 7offman, 93 Michigan,-72, the same principle
was extended to a plaintiff in ejectment who was held entitled to maintain an action for trover for logs cut by the
defendant during the pendency of the suit which had been
determined in the plaintiff's favor, although the defendant
was in possession of the land under a bona fide claim of title
adverse to the plaintiff. This is but another application of
the doctrine which allows the plaintiff in ejectment to recover
mesne profits upon the theory that the land has always been
his, and that the defendant illegally obtained possession of it.
See also .Morgan v. Vraric, 8 Wend. 587; Busc/i v. .Nester,
62 Michigan, 381; 70 Michigan, 525.
In .Mooers v. Wait, 3 Wend. 104, a person entered into
possession of wild lands under a contract of sale giving him
the right of entry and occupancy, reserving to the landlord
the land as security until the payment of the consideration
by withholding the deed. It was held that he had a right
to enter and enjoy the land for agricultural purposes, but
that he had no right to cut timber for any other purpose
than for the cultivation, improvement and enjoyment of the
land as a farm; and that the owner of the inheritance, who
had never parted with his title, might maintain an action
of trover for it against any one in possession, although a
bona fide purchaser under the occupant. This was also upon
the principle that the vendor had never parted with title to
his land. But see Scott v. ]W7arton, 2 Hen. & Y. 25; .Moses
v. Johnson, 88 Alabama, 517.
In Burnett v. ThomPson, 6 Jones, 1 . 0. (Law), 210, the
plaintiff had a life estate pur autre vie in a lease of Indian
lands for ninety-nine years, and also a reversion after the
expiration of the term. A stranger entered and cut down

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

cypress trees and carried them off. The plaintiff was permitted to recover. It was held that "if there be a tenant
for years or for life, and a stranger cuts down a tree, the
particular tenant may bring trespass, and recover damages
for breaking his close,. treading down his grass, and the like.
But the remainderman, or reversioner in fee, is entitled to
the tree, and if it be converted may bring trover and recover
its value. The reason is, the tree constituted a part of the
land, its severance was waste, which is an injury to the inheritance, consequently the party in whom is vested the first
estate of inheritance, whether in fee simple or fee tail (for it
may last always), is entitled to the tree, as well after it is
severed, as before; his right of property not being lost by
the wrongful acts of severance by which it is converted into
a personal chattel." See also Halleck v. Mixer, 16 California,
574.
While these cases run counter to some of those previously
cited, they are all distinguishable from the one under consideration in the fact that the plaintiff was the owner of
the inheritance, and had the legal title to the land at the
time the "trespass was committed. We see nothing in them
to disturb the doctrine announced by this court in Schulenberg v. Earriman, 21 Wall. 44, that timber cut upon the
lands prior to the forfeiture belongs to the State. The fact
is that nothing remained of the original title of the United
States but the possibility of a reversion, a contingent remainder, which would be an insufficient basis for an action
of trover. Gordon v. Lowther, 75 N. 0. 193; .Matthew v.
.Hudson, 81 Georgia, 120; Farabow v. Green, 108 N. 0. 339;
Sager v. Galloway, 113 Penn. St. 500. To sustain this action
there must be an immediate right of possession when the
timber is cut. 'This might ariser if the severance of the timber involved a breach of obligation on the part of the tenant,
but if the timber were cut by a third person, the question
would be as to the right to the timber so cut as against the
trespasser, and unless the case of Sckulenberg v. Harriman
is to be overruled, it must be held to be that of the State.
• 2. As the United States can take title to the timber in-

UNITED STATES v. LOUGHREY.
Opinion of the Court.

volved in this case only through its ownership of the lands, it
remains to consider whether the act of March 2, 1889, c. 414,
25 Stat. 1008, forfeiting the lands granted by this act to aid
in the construction of a railroad from Marquette 'to Ontonagon, operated by relation to revest in the United States title
to the timber which had been cut during the winter of 1887
and 1888, and prior to the act of forfeiture. This act provided
that "there is hereby forfeited to the United States, and the
United State§ hereby resumes title thereto, all lands heretofore granted to the State of Michigan
.
.
which are opposite to and coterminous with the uncompleted portion of
any railroad, to aid in the construction of which said lands
were granted or applied, and all such lands are hereby, declared to be a part of the public domain."
The position of the plaintiffs must necessarily be that this
act of forfeiture not only revested in the United States the
title to the lands as of a date prior to the cuttingof the timber
in question, but also revested them with the property in the
timber which had been cut while the lands belonged to the
State of Michigan. Had this act of forfeiture not been
passed, there could be no question that, under the case of
Schulenberg v. Harriman,21 Wall. 44, this timber would have
belonged to the State of Michigan, and no.action therefor
could have been brought by the United States.
But conceding all that is contended for by the plaintiffs
with respect to the revestiture of the title to the lands by this
act, it does not follow that the title to the timber which had
been cut in the meantime was also revested in the United
States. As was said in iSchulenberg v. Harriman,the title to
the timber remained, in the State after it had been severed.
But it remained in the State as a separate and independent
piece of property, and if the State had elected to sell it, a good
title would have thereby passed to the purchaser, notwithstanding the subsequent act of forfeiture. It did not remain
the property of the State as a part of the lands, but as a distinct piece of property, although the State took its title thereto
through and in consequence of its title to the lands. From
the moment it was cut, the State was at liberty to deal with.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898,
Opinion of the Court.

it as with any other piece of personal property. iRobert v.
.Hurdle,4S N. 0. 490.
We know of no principle of law under which it can be said
that timber, which'was the property of the State when cut,
becomes the property of the United- States by an aci of Congress resuming title to the land from which it was cut, although the timber may in the meantime have been removed
hundreds of miles from the lands, and passed into the hands
of one who knew nothing of the source from which it was
derived. It may be, in such a case, that if the State sues for
and recovers the value of such timber, it might be accountable
to the United States for the proceeds, in case the Government
resumed title to the lands.
Two cases cited by the Solicitor General in the brief lend
support to the doctrine that the resumption of title by the
United States operates upon the timber already cut as well as
upon the lands. In the first of these, Heath v. Rowa, 12 Johns.
140, the action was in trover for a quantity of timber cut upon
lands for which the plaintiff had applied for a patentbefore
the timber was cut. The patent was not granted until after
the timber was cut. The patent was held, upon well-settled
principles, to relate back to the date of application. The defendant knew he had no title to the lot or right to cut the
timber. The plaintiffs were held entitled to recover.
The other case is that of Musser v. MRae, 44 Minnesota,
343. In that case an act of Congress, granting lands to the
State of Wisconsin in aid of the construction of railroads, provided that it should be lawful for the agents appointed by the
railway company, entitled to the grant, to select, subject to
the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, from the public
lands of the United States, "deficiency" lands within certain
indemnity limits. It was held that the issuance of a patent
to the ,railway company for the lands so selected" was evidence
that the company had complied with all the conditions of the
grant, and was entitled to the lands described therein, and
that the title passed from the United States at the date of the
selection. And it was further held that where, after the lands
had been so selected, but prior to the issue of theT patent,

UNITED STATES v. LOUGH1REY.
Opinion of the Court.

timber had been wrongfully cut, and removed by trespassers,
the title acquired by the patents must be held to relate back
to the selection of the lands, so as to save the purchasers to
whom the lands had been granted, a right of action for the
timber wrongfully removed from the land, or its value.
These cases are distinguishable from the one under consideration in the fact that the plaintiffs had an inchoate title to
the lands -a title which no one could disturb, and which the
State was bound to perfect by the issue of a patent, provided
the plaintiffs followed up their application. We do not think
the doctrine of these cases ought to be extended.
3. Nor are the plaintiffs entitled to avail themselves of the
rule that in an action of trover a mere trespasser cannot defeat
the plaintiff's right to possession by showing a superior title
in a third person without showing himself in privity or connecting himself with such third person. The cases in which
this principle is applied are confined to those where the plaintiffs were either in possession of the property or entitled to its
immediate possession, and thus showed a prima facie right
thereto. It has no application to cases wherein the plaintiff
has shown no such right to bring the action. Tefries v. Great
Wrestern. Railway Co., 5 El. & Bl. 802; Weymouth v. Chicago
& _Northwestern Railway, 17 Wisconsin, 567; Wheeler v.
Lawson, 103 N. Y. 40; llalleol v. Mixer, 16 California., 574;
Terry v. Metevier, 10d: Michigan, 50; Stevens v. Gordon, 87
Maine, 561,; Fiske v. Small, 25 Maine, 453. Counsel are
mistaken in supposing that the plaintiffs had an immediate
right to the possession of this timber. They had no right to
the possession of the land until Congress passed the act of
March 2, 1889, forfeiting the grant. Up to that time the title
was in the State, and until then the -United States had no
more right to enter and take possession than they would
have had to take possession of the pioperty of a private individual.
As the plaintiffs failed to show title to or right of. possession:
to the timber in question, there was no error in the action of
the Court of Appeals, and its judgment is therefore
Affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, J., Fuller, C.J., Harlan, J.

MR.JUSTICE

WHITE,

with whom concurred MR. OnmiE Jus-

TICE FULLER and MR.JUSTICE HIARLAN, dissenting.

The United States donated the land from which the timber
was cut to the State of Michigan in aid of a contemplated
railroad. The donating act dedicated the property thus conveyed to the State, for the sole purpose of aiding in the
construction of the railroad, and it contained a provision that
if the road was not built within a designated period the
land conveyed was to revert to the United States. The road
was never built, and the granted land was forfeited by act of
Congress, because of non-compliance with the conditions contained in the grant.
The issue presented for decision is the right of the United
States to recover in an action of trover the proceeds of timber
cut from the land by a trespasser whilst the legal title was in
the State, but after the period had elapsed when the right in
the United States to assert a forfeiture had arisen. The decision of the court is that a recovery cannot be had, because
at the time of the severance of the timber by the trespasser
the legal title was in the State. It is thus in effect decided
that it was in the power of a trespasser, while the legal title
to the land and its incidents was in the State, to destroy the
value of the land by severing and appropriating the timber,
and that there exists no remedy by which, the right of property of the United States can be protected. Such a consequence strikes me as so abnormal that I cannot bring my
mind to assent to its correctness; and thinking as I do that it
involves a grave denial of a right of property, not only harmful in the case decided, but harmful as a precedent for cases
which m.y arise in the future, I state the reason for my
dissent.
At the outset it becomes necessary to determine the nature of
the rights of the State and those of the United States created
by and flowing from the act of donation. That the land from
which the timber was cut belonged to the United States at
the time of the grant goes without saying. It was conveyed
by the act of Congress to the State, not for the use and bene-

UMTED STATES v. LOUGHREY.
Dissenting Opinion: White; J., Fuller, C.J'., Harlan, J.

fit of the State, but for the sole purpose of aiding in the construction of a railroad. The State had no right to dispose of
the land except for the declared object; and whilst it is true
that a power to sell the land was vested by-the act in the
State, it was a power which the State could only call into
being as the work piogressed, and, to quote from the act, "for
the purposes aforesaid and no other" -that is, the specific
object stated, namely, the* construction of the railroad referred to. The granting act clearly imported that in the event
of a forfeiture before the laud had been earned and conveyed
by the State, the land should be restored to the United States
in its integrity.
I submit that the effect of the act of Congress was to create
a trust in the land and to vest the legal title thereto, with the
incidents such as timber, in the State of Michigan for the purposes of the trust, to hold, primarily, for the benefit of the
owners of a line of railroad if constructed, and, secondarily, for
the benefit of the United States, in the contingency that a forfeiture was declared for a breach of -the condition subsequent
as to the time of completion of the road. The State, in all
reason, was bound to restore the land and timber vhich passed
to its possession to the United States, upon the declaration of
the forfeiture, retaining no benefit whatever from the land
for itself by reason of such custody and control. Being
.clothed with the legal estate in the land, the State, while it
so held the land, "possessed all the power and dominion over
it that belonged to an owner." Stanley v. Colt, 5 Wall. 119,
167. As the timber when severed belonged to the true owner
of theland, the State, as the trustee of an express trust and
representing such owner, was the-proper party, during the
continuance of the trust, to recover any portion of the inheri.
tance wrongfully converted by a trespasser, and this would
have been the case even if the United States had stipulated to
retain possession until a conveyance of the land by the State.
Wooderman, v. Baldock, 8 Taunt. 676; White v. _IXorri&, 11
0. B. 1015; Barker v. Furlong, (1891) L. R. 2 Ch. 172;
Myera v. Hale, 22 Mo. App. 201. Clearly this was so, because,
to maintain replin or trover, it is essential that the plaintiff

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, J., Fuller, C.J., Hailan, J.

have at the time of suit brought the legal title to the property,
and, until the enactment of the forfeiting act, the legal title
to this timber was in the State of Michigan.
It was manifestly because the legal title was in the State
that this court in Sc6ulenberg v. -Iarriman,21 Wall. 44,
declared that a State was the owner of timber which had
been wrongfully cut by trespassers from land granted in aid
of a railroad by a statute similar to the one above referred to.
The Schulenberg action was instituted, however, at a time
when no forfeiture had been declared, and the controversy
was simply between a trespasser and the State as to their
respective rights in timber which had been unlawfully severed
from the grafited land. That land so conveyed, with all that
formed part thereof, was deemed to be held upon trust is
manifest from the opinion; for, speaking through Mr. Justice
Field, the court said (p. 59):
"The acts of Congress made it a condition precedent to the
conveyance by the State of any other lands that the road
should be constructed in sections of not less than twenty
consecutive miles each. No conveyance in violation of the
terms of those acts, the road not having been constructed,
could pass any title to the company."
And this view was reiterated by this court, speaking through
Mr. Justice Brewer, in Lake Siperior Ship Qanal c- Co. v.
Cinningham, 155 U. S. 354, when, in interpreting the very
statute now under consideration, it.was said (p. 373):
"Further the grant to the State of Michigan was to aid in
the construction of a railroad. Affirmatively, it was declared
in the acts of Congress that the lands should be applied by
the State to no other purpose. Even if there had been no
such declaration such a limitation would be implied from the
declaration of Congress that it was granted for the given purpose. As the State of Michigan had no power to appropriate
these lands to any other purpose, certainly no act of any
executive officer of the State could accomplish that which
the State itself had no power to do."
To reason, however, to establish that in so far as the grantig act restricted the State to the use of the land and that

UNITED STATES v. LOUGHREY.
Dissenting Opinion: White, J., Fuller, C.J., Harlan, J.

which adhered in it for a particular purpose it engendered an
express trust, is wholly unnecessary, since it is admitted that
had the State through its agents cut timber upon the land
before the passage of the forfeiture act, a right of action
would have arisen on behalf of the United States against the
State as upon a covenant by the State that it would keep
the land and its incidents for railway purposes only. This
conclusion necessarily carries with it as a legal resultant the
proposition that the granting act contained an express trust.
How then, I submit, can it in reason be held that there was
a right which could only exist upon the hypothesis of an
express trust arising from the granting act, and yet it at the
same time be decided that there was no trust whatever implied--in the act, or that the rights which would obtain if
there were a trust have no being? It cannot be doubted
that the act restricted the use to a particular purpose, nor
can it be gainsaid that the right of reentry was stipulated
only as respects the non-completion of the railroad. But the
failure to preserve a right of reentry in case of the misuse
of the property did not destroy the terms of the act restricting the use, and as therefore the restriction as to use was
unaccQmpanied with a clause of redntry, the effect was to
give rise to a trust upon the grantee with reference to such
use. This last principle, I submit, is sustained by authority.
Stanley v. Colt, 5 Wall. 119, 165; Packardv. Ames, 16 Gray,
327, and cases cited; Sohier v. T-rinity Church, 109 Mass. 119.
As the State held the land with power simply to sell on
the happening of a particular event, until the occurrence of
that event the State had no greater rights in the land than
would have existed in favor of one who was entitled to the
mere use and occupancy of the land. It could not therefore
sell the timber for purposes of mere profit, for, as said in,
United State8 v. Cook, 19 Wall. 591:
"The timber while standing is a part of the realty and can
only be sold as the land could be. The land cannot be sold,
.

.

.

consequently the timber, until rightfully severed, can-

not be."
If, therefore, the State could not rightfully acquire the

O6TOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: .Wilte, J.,. Fuller, C.J., Harlan, J..

absolute ownership, in its own right, of timber, the cutting
of which it had authorized, it is clear that it would not become such owner by reason of the unlawful act of an unauthorized person. As the State of Michigan was without
-power tb have authorized a sale of the timber contrary to
the purpose of the trust, it is obvious that the act of a mere
trespasser, without authority from the State, in denuding the
land of its timber, could not operate to vest the State or the
trespasser" with the absolute ownership, in its or his own
right, of said timber; and it is the settled doctrine of this
court that the sale of timber by a trespasser does not divest
the title of the real owner, and that a purchaser, even though
acting in good faith, is liable to respond to the true owner
for the timbe or its value. United States v. Cook, 19 Wall.
591; Wooden Ware Co. v. United States, 106 U. S. 432; Btone
Y. United States, 167 U. S. 178, 192, 195.
The simple question presented then is this and this alone:
Where the legal 'title to land, with its incidents, is in one
person burdened withi an express trust in favor of another,
can the cestui gue trust, upon the cessation of the trust, when
the title to the land and its incidents has. revested in him,
recover from a wrongdoer the value of timbei cut, without
color of right and unlawfully removed from the land while
the legal title and possession thereto was in the trustee?
This question is, I think, fully answered by the rulings
of this court in Schulenberg v. Hta~rima,' and Lake Superior
&c. Co. v. Cunningham, suPra, because, as already stated, in
.the first case it was said that "no conveyance in violation
of the terms of these acts, the road not having been constructed, could pass any title to a grantee of the State;"
and in the second, that, "As the State of Michigan had no
power to appropriat'these- lands to any other purpose, certainly no act of any executive officer of the State could accomplish that which the State-itself had no power to do."
Now, no one will gainsay that this court in those cases declred that if the land was conveyed in violation of the terms
of the act.of Congress, an occupant under such an unlaivful.
grant might be ousted by the'United States, either forcibly

UIIITED STATES v. LOUGHREY.
Dissenting Opinion: White, J., Fuller, C.J., Harlan, J.

or by suit in ejectment. With this doctrine thus settled by
this court in opinions which are now approvingly cited, is it
yet to be held that if the occupant under a void grant from
the State before forfeiture denuded the land of all its timber,
that is, of one of its material incidents,the land might be recovered by the Ufiited States from the trespasser, but not the
timber or its value? I submit that, upon general considerations, as between the wrongdoer and the cestui quo trust, the
better right is in the latter, that such right can be enforced,
and that though ordinarily in an action of trover it is essential
that the plaintiff should have had at the time of the unlawful
conversion the legal title and right of possession to the property claimed by him, yet, under such circumstances as I have
indicated, a title by relation is a sufficient basis for the action.
Relation is a fiction of law, adopted solely for the purposes
of justice, Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92, 100, and by it one
who equitably should be so entitled is enabled to assert a
remedy for an injury suffered, which otherwise would go unredressed. The doctrine is considered at much length in Butler v. Baker, 3 Coke, 25, in resolutions of the Justices of
England and the Barons of the Exchequer, and "many notable rules and cases of relations" (p. 35b) are. there stated.
The action was trespass, and the refusal of a wife, after the
death of the husband, to accept a jointure by which an estate
tail had vested in her prior to the death of the husband, was
held to relate back as to certain lands and not as to others.
It was laid down (p. 28b) "that relation is a fiction of law to
make a nullity of a thing ab initio (to a certain intent), which
in rei veritate had essence, and the rather for necessity, ut res
magis vaZeat quam pereat." And, in Lord Coke's comments on
the case, he observes (p. 30a): "The law will never make any
fiction, but for necessity, and in avoidance of a mischief."
Early in England the doctrine of relation was applied in
favor of the king in cases where until office found the title or
right of possession to property, real or personal, was not in the
crown. Thus Viner in the eighteenth volume of his Abridgment, at p. 292, title Relations, states the following case:
"2. In quare impedit, where the king is entitled to the
VOL. CLXXII-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, J., Fuller, C.J., Harlan, J.

advowson by office by death of his tenant, the heir beiig
within age and in ward of the king by tenure in capite, this
office shall have relation to the death of the tenant of the
king; so that if there be a mesne presentment the king shall
it by relation. (Br. Rela tions, pl. II, eites 14 H. 7, 22.)"
avoid
Several
instances of the application of the doctrine in favor
of the king are referred to at length in the report of the case
of Nickols v. .f chol8, Plowden, 477, 488 et 8eq., one of which,
I submit, is precisely parallel to the case at bar, and is thus
stated in the report:
"In an action of trespass brought in 19 Edw. IV, for entering into a close and taking the grass, the defendant pleaded
that it was found by office that the tenement escheated to the
king before the day of the trespass, and there it seems that,
as to such things as arise from the land, as the grass, and the
like, the'action which was well given to the plaintiff was
taken away by the office found afterwards, which by its rel.tion entitled the king thereto; but, as to the entry into the
land, or breaking of fences, which don't arise from the land,
nor any part of the annual encrease of it, the action was not
taken away by the office."
This last case is reviewed, approvingly, in the opinion of
Bayley, J., in hzcper v. Charleswortk, 4 B. & 0. 574, where,
in an action of trespass, brought by one in the possession of
lands under a parbil license from agents of the crown, which
possession was not good as against the crown because not
granted in conformity to statute, it was adjudged that, as the
king had not proceeded against the occupant, the actibn might
be maintained, though the right of such occupant to recover
for the, trees was denied in the opinion of Holroyd, J., presumably because they form part of the inheritance.
The doctrine was early enforced in Efigland to vest a right
of action, in trover, in an administrator. In 18 Viner's Abr.,
title Relation, p. 285, it is said:
"(1. If a man dies possessed of certain goods, and after a
stranger takeg them and converts them to his own use, and
then administration is granted to J. S., this administration
shall relate back to the death of the testator, so that J. S.

UNITED STATES v. LOUGHREY.
Dissenting Opinion: White, J., Fuller, C.J., Harlan, J.

may maintain an action of trover and conversion for this conversion before the administration granted to him. Trin. -10
Car. B. R. between Locksmith and Creswell adjudged, this
being moved in arrest of judgment, after verdict for the
plaintiff. Intratur. Hill, 9 Car. Rot. 729.)"
In the marginal note it is stated: "For this is to punish an
unlawful act; but relations shall never divest any right legally
vested in another between the death of the intestate and the
commission of administration."
An administrator has likewise been held, by relation, to
have such constructive right of possession in the goods of the
intestate before grant of letters as to be entitled to maintain
an action of trespass. Tharpe v. ,Stallwood, 5 M. & G. 760,
and cases there cited. And, in Foster v. Bate8s, 12 M. & W.
226, Parke, B., said (p. 233)"
"It is clear that the title of an administrator, though it does
not exist until the grant of administration, relates back to the
time of the death of the intestate; and that he may recover
against a wrongdoer who has seised or converted the goods of
the intestate after his death, in an action of trespass or trover.
All the authorities on this subject were considered by the
Court of Common Pleas, in the case of Tharye v. Stallwood,
12 Law J. N. S. 24,1, (a) where an action of trespass was held
to be maintainable. The reason for this relation given by
Rolle, C. J., in long v. Heb, Styles, 341, is, that otherwise
there would be no remedy for the wrong done."
The title of an assignee in bankruptcy was also early held
to relate back, for the purpose of maintaining trover, to the
time of the commission of the act of bankruptcy. Sea the
subject reviewed in Balme v. Iutton, 9 Bing. 471, particularly pp. 524, 525, where Tindal, C. J., observed that in
Brassey v. Dawson, 2 Str. 978, Lord llardwicke, then Chief
Justice of the King's Bench, stated this relation to be a fiction
of law, but that, subsequently, when Chancellor, in Billon v.
iyde, 2 Yes. 310, he seemed to be of opinion that the terms
of the bankrupt act, by necessary construction, imported that
such relation was intended.
Another illustration of the application of the doctrine is

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, J., Fuller, C.J., Harlan, J.

where a grantee or mortgagee ratifies -an unauthorized delivery of a conveyance or mortgage to a third person, in which
case it is held that the title may relate back to the unauthorized delivery, except as to vested rights of third persons.
See a review of numerous authorities in Rogers v. -eads .i'on.
Roundry,51 Nebraska, 39. See, also, Wilson v. Hoffman, 93
Michigan, 72, where it was.held that a successful plaintiff in
ejectment might maintain an action of trover for logs cut by
the defendant from standing timber, and removed from the
land during the pendency of. the suit, and while in possession
of the land under a bone flde claim of title adverse to the
plaintiff. In that case the court said (p. 75):
"In the present case the true owner brings trover against
the party who cut the logs, under a bonafde claim of title
adverse to the owner, after the title to the land has been determined in favor of the plaintiff. . . . If in the pres~nt
case the logs had been upon the land when the ejeetment suit
was determined, that determination would have established
the title in the plaintiff. Suppose, however, that before the
determination of the ejectment suit the logs had been skidded
upon adjoining land - would the ownership or right of possession depend upon which party first reached the skids? As
is said in the Busch case, as between the wrongdoer and the
true owner of the land, the title to what is severed from the
freehold is not changed by the severance, whatever may be
the case as to strangers. If the true owner may keep his own
property when he gets it, why may not he get it if another
has it? "
Many decisions of this and other courts illustrate the application of the doctrine to various conditions of fact. Thus,
where one has claimed land under a donation act, or has
entered upon land under homestead or predmption statutes,
the legal title subsequently acquired by patent has been held
to relate back to a prior period, to quote the language of this
court in Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 100: "So far as it is
necessary to protect the rights of the claimant to the land,
and the rights of parties deriving their interests from him."
Among the cases recognizing and applying the doctrine

UNITED STATES v. LOUGHREY.
Dissenting Opinion: White, J., Fuller, C.J., Harlan, J.

that the legal title when acquired may be held, for certain
purposes, to relate back to the inception of an inchoate right
in the land, which, however, was in no sense an estate in the
land, may be cited the following: 1ossv. Barland, 1.Pet.
655; Landes v. Brant, 10 How. 348-; Lessee of French. v.
Spencer, 21 How. 228, 240; Grisar v. NcDowell, 6 Wall.
363; Beard v. Federy,3 Wall. 478; Lynch v. Bernal,9 Wall.
315; Stark v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 402; Gibson v. Ghouteau, 13
Wall. 92,100; Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330; Heath v. 11o8s,
12 Johns. 140; and *Afusser v. Mclae, 44 Minnesota., 343. As
was said in Gibson v. Chouteau, supra, p. 101, the doctrine
of relation is "usually" applied- in this class of cases, but is
so applied "for the purposes of justice." I submit it is clear
that the inchoate rights in land held in the cases above cited
to be sufficient to warrant the application of the doctrine of
relation were of no greater legal or equitable merit or efficacy
than the interest or expectant right in land with its incidents,
reserved to the United States by virtue of the granting act of
1856 here considered, and this it strikes me is patent when it
is borne in mind that it is conceded that the interest of the
United States in the land was such that, if the timber bad
been cut by the State, the United States had the better right
to the avails, and might, by an action for breach of covenant,
recover the same from the State. But, if the State, which
held the legal title subject to an express trust, can be held to
acc6unt by way of damages in an action of covenant for timber
cut under its authority, why "for the purposes of justice"
should not the doctrine of relation be applied in favor of the.
United States, at this time when, otherwise, a naked trespasser,
who had no title of any kind and whom the State whilst it
was trustee choose not to sue and cannot now sue, will escape
liability and the United States be defrauded of the value of
its property ? To deny relief under such a state of facts is, I
submit, to hold that if A conveys land in. fee to B in trust, to
be held for 0 until the happening of a certain event, and, after
the contingency has happened, and the land has been conveyed
to 0. and the trust thus terminated, the former cestui que trust
discovers that the land had been stripped of all its timber

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, T., Fuller, C.J., Harlan, J.

by a trespasser artd rendered practically valueless, he is without remedy, and must endure the pecuniary injury without
complaint.
If, as it seems to me is clearly the fact, the State of Michigan held title to the timber merely as an incident to the land,
and could only exercise such powers with respect to the timber
as it was entitled to exercise as respects the land itself, it
results that the State did not stand in the attitude of a grantee of land upon condition subsequent, to whom an absolute conveyance had been made, for its soZe -use and benefit.
Authorities, therefore, to the point that in the case of such a

conveyance, the only right of the grantor is to receive back,
upon reentry, the granted land in the condition in which it
might then exist, have no pertinency in a case like the present, where the grant was to the State, not as absolute owner,
but as a mere trustee. So, also, I submit that decisions which
hold that upon the commission of a trespass on land where
the legal title and possession is in the real owner, or upon an
infringement of a patent the legal title to which is in the real
owner, a right of action to recover damages for the trespass
or infringement immediately vests in such owner and becomes
personal to him, so as not to pass upon it subsequent conveyance of the land or assignment of the patent, have no relevancy in cases like that at bar, where at the time of the
trespass or infringement complained of the legal title and the
possession was held by one who was but a trustee for another,
and had no real, beneficial interest in the land.
Nor can I see the appositeness of the. citation of adthorities
holding that, during the existence of a trust, the trustee and
not the cestui que trust is the proper person to sue. This is
readily conceded, and such was the decision of this court in
Scnulenbarg v. -Harriman,and in Lake Superior &eo. Co. v.
COnningham. The question here is, not who may sue during
the existence of the trust, but, what are the rights of the cestie
qce ,trust when the power of the' trustee has ended, and the
property has reverted under the terms of the trust.
The decisions are uniform, that even where land is in the
possession of a lessee, upon an unauthorized severance of

UNITED STATES v. LOUGHREY.
Dissenting Opinion: White, J,

Fuller, C.J., Harlan, 3.

growing timber, the.title and right of possession to the severed
timber is at once vested in the owner of the land, or, as it is

sometimes expressed, the owner of the inheritance; and the
latter may resort to the appropriate remedies against one who
unlawfully removes the severed timber fromthe land, Liford's
case, 11 Coke Rep. 46b, 48a; T]Tard v. Andrews, 2 Chitty,
636; S.C. 4 Kent Com.' 120; United States v. Cook, 19 Wall.
591, 594; Burnett v. Thompson, 6 Jones, Law, (N. 0.) 210, 213;
Mather v. .Ministers of Trinity Church, 3 Serg. & Raw. 509,
and cases cited; Mooer8 v. Wait, 3 Wend. 104, 108; Gordon
v. l aper, 7 T. R. 13; 1 Chitty Plead. 16th ed. 217; star
paging 168 ;. 1 Wash. Real Prop. 5th ed., 498, note T, star
paging 314; and the same principle applies to whatever is
part of the inheritance and is wrongfully severed and removed'
from the land. .Farrantv. Thom2 son, 5 B. & Ald. 826, 828.
To summarize, therefore: The State of iMichigan was not
the beneficial owner of the land from which the timber in
question was severed, but held the legal title merely as a
trustee, though, by virtue of being vested with the legal
estate, the State was entitled to enforce, for the benefit of
the real owner, such remedies as the latter might have resorted to had he held the legal title. -But if the owner, the
United States, is not permitted to maintain the present action,
it loses property which it had a clear right to receive, and the
wrongdoer goes unpunished. These circumstances present all
the elements which justify resort to the fiction of law by
which a person who, in equity and good conscience, was the
real owner at the time of an unlawful conversion is to be
regarded, as against the wrongdoer, to have had the legal
title and possession, by relation, in him at the time of such
conversion, and therefore as having had such a title and possession as, when his disability to assert his rights no longer
exists, will entitle him to maintain an action of trover.
Indeed, it seems to me that in reason it is impossible to
deny the right of the true owner to recover the timber, without involving the mind in irreconcilable propositions and in
addition making use of a complete non, sequitur, that is to
say, first, that there was no trust, and yet that rights existed

OCTOBER TERMt,

1898.

Syllabus.

which could only arise by reason of a trust; and second, that
the trustee alone could sue during the existence of the trust,
therefore, on the termination of the trust, the same doctrine
applies. Reduced to its last analysis, the doctrine now
announced is, I submit, really this: That the United States
could not recover whilst the trust existed because the trustee
must assert the right, and that it likewise could not recover
after the termination of the trust, and, hence, could not
recover at all. The result in effect concedes the existence
of a right of property, but holds that it cannot be protected
because the law affords no remedy. The maxim ubi jus, ibi
remedium lies at the very foundation of all systems of law,
and, because, as has been stated at the outset, I cannot believe that the common law departs from it, I refrain from
giving my assent to the conclusions of the court, and express
my reasons for dissenting therefrom.

GRANT v. BUOKNER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 89. Submitted November 29, 1S98.-Decided December 19, 1898.
Certain real estate in Louisiana, consisting of five plantations standing in
the name of J. Morgan, was community property. His wife died in
1844, leaving two childrenas.her heirs; and in 1858 Morgan conveyed all
the real, estate to his children and grandchildren. He died in 1860, and
in 1872 his creditors took proceedings to set aside the conveyance and to
subject his interest in the property to the payment of his debts. Their
contention was sustained by this court in Johnson v. Waters, 111 U. S. 640.
Then a receiver was appointed to take charge of bo.h interests in all
the property. The portion to which this suit relates was in the possession of Buckner, claiming under the conveyance made by Morgan in
1858. The receiver threatening to eject him, Buckner, in order to remain
in possession, took a lease of the whole plantation from the receiver. In
1891 it was decided in Mlellen v. .Bitckner,139 U. S. 388, that one undivided
half of the plantation belonged to Buckner, and that only the remaining
half was subject to the debts of Morgan, and that if the heirs should not
desire a severance of their portions, the whole should be sold and the
proceeds divided in accordance with the decree. The sale was made two

