NORWOOD v. BAKER.
Syllabus.

office and home assets are, to see w.hat share in the unappropriated assets they can obtain, while the New York creditors,
by reason of their early information, secure full payment.
Practically, the effect is to compel the State to discriiinate
in favor of the New York against the home creditors. The
suggestion that after the New York creditors have perfected
their liens upon the assets in California, the courts of that
State will stay proceedings until they see that the New York
courts have given full protection to the California creditors
in the assets in New York, is visionary and impracticable.
Tjere may be assets in twenty States, and there is no control
by the courts of one State over proceedings in the courts of
other States. Of course, if the California courts can wait till
the New York courts have acted, the converse is also true,
and so a game of seesaw may be established between the
courts of the two States. For these, among Other reasons, I
am constrained to dissent from this opinion and judgment.
I am authorized to state that the Chief Justice concurs in
this dissent.

NORWOOD v. BAKER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED -STATES- FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 84. Submitted May 8, 1808. -Decided

December 12, 1S98.

The principle underlying special assessments upon private property to meet
the cost of public improvements is that the property upon which they aro
imposed is peculiarly benefited, and therefore that the owners do not in
fact pay anything in excess of what' they receive by reason of such
Improvement.
The exaction from.the owner of private property of the cost of a public
improvement in substantial excess of the special benefits accruing to him
is, to the extent of such excess, a taking, under the guise of taxation, of
private property for public use without compensation; but, unless such
excess of cost over special benefits be of a material charactdr, ii ought
not to be regarded by a court of equity, when its aid is invoked to restrain the enforcement of a special assessment.

OGTOBER TER-,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.
The constitution of Ohio authorizes the taking of private property for the
purpose of making public roads, but requires a compensation to be made
therefor to the owner, to be assessed by a jury, without deduction for
benefits. The statutes of the State, quoted or referred to in the opinion
of the court, make provisions for the manner in which this power is to be
exercised. In the case of the opening'of a new road, they authorize a
special assessment upon bounding and abutting property by the front
foot for this entire cost and expense of the improvement, without taking
special benefits into account. Th6 alleged improvement in this case was
the construction through property of the appellee of a street 300 feet in
length and 50 feet in width, to connect two streets of that width running
from each end in opposite directions. In the proceedings in this case
the corporation of Norwood manifestly went upon the theory that the
abutting propdrty 'could be made to bear the whole cost of the new road,
whether it was benefited or not to the extent of such cost, and the assessment was made accordingly. This suit was brought to obtain a decree restraining the corporation from enforcing the assessment against
the plaintiff's abutting property, which decree was granted. Held, that
the assessment was, in itself, an illegal one, because it rested upon a basis
that excluded any consideration of benefits; that therefore a decree enjoining the whole assessment was the only appropriate decree; that it
was not necessary to tender, as a condition of relief being granted to the
plaintiff, any sum as representing what she supposed, or might guess, or
was willing to concede was the excess of costs over any benefits accruing to the property; and that the legal effect of the decree was only to
prevent the enforcement of'the particular assessment in question, leaving the corporation free to take such stdps as might be within its power,
to make a new assessment upon the plaintiff's abutting property for so
much of the expense of opening the street as might be found equal to
the special benefits accruing to the property.

T E case is stated in the opinion.
. r. William

. Bundy for appellant.

Mr. Charles V. Baker for appellee.
Mmn. JysTicE

HARLAw

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case arises out of the condemnation of certain lands
for the purpose of opening a.street in the Village of Norwood,
a municipal corporation in Hamilton County, Ohio.
The particular question presented for consideration involves
the validity of an ordinance of that Village, assessing upon

NORWOOD v. BAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

the appellee's land abutting on each side of the new street-an
amount covering not simply a sum equal to that paid for
the land taken for the street, but, in addition, the costs and
expenses connected with the condemnation proceedings.
By the final decree of the Circuit Court of the United
States it was adjudged that the assessment complained of was
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States forbidding any State from depriving
a person of property without due process of law; and the
Village was perpetually enjoined from enforcing the assessment. *74 Fed. Rep. 997.
The present appeal was prosecuted directly to this court,
because the case involved the construction and application of
the Constitution of the United States.
It will conduce to a clear understanding of the case to ascertain the powers of the Village under the constitution and
statutes of Ohio, and to refer somewhat in detail to the proceedings instituted for the opening of the street through
appellee's property.
By the constitution of Ohio it is declared: "Private property shall ever be held inviolate, but subservient to the public
welfare. When taken in time of war or other public exi-.
gency, imperatively requiring its immediate seizure or for the
purpose of making or repairing roads, which shall be open to
the public, without charge, a compensation shall be made to
the owner, in money, and in all other cases, where private
property shall be taken for public- use, a compensation there.
.
and such compensafor shall first be made in money;
tion shall be assessed by a jury, without deduction for benefits
to any property of the Qwner." Const. Ohio, 1851, Art. 1,
§ 19, Bill of Rights; 3 Bates Anno. Ohio Stat. 3525.
Cities and villages in Ohio are by statute given power to
lay off, establish, open, widen, narrow, straighten, extend,
keep in order and repair, and light streets, alleys, public
grounds and buildings, wharves, landing places, bridges and
market spaces within the corporation, and to appropriate
private property for the use of the corporation. And "each
city and village may appropriate, enter upon, and hold real

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

etate.within its corporate limits for the following purposes,
but no more shall be taken or appropriated than is reasonably
iiQ'cessai'y for the purpose to which it is to be applied: 1. For
opening, widening, straightening and extending streets, alleys
and avenues; also for obtaining gravel or 6ther material for
the improvement of the same, and for this purpose the right
to appropriate shall not be limited to lands lying within the
limits of the corporation,
1I" Rev. Stat. Ohio, (1890)
§ 1692, sub. div. 18 and 33, and § 2232, pp. 429, 430, Title,
Cities and Villages; Enumeration of Powers, and p. 572,
Title, Appropriation by Cities and Villages of Private Property to Public Use.
Other provisions of the statute prescribe the steps to be
taken in the appropriation by a municipal corporation of private property for public purpbses. §§ 2233 to 2261 inclusive.
It is further provided by the statutes of Ohio, (1890) Title
XII, Assessments, etc., chap. 4, as follows:
"§ 2263. When the corporation appropriates, or otherwise
acquires, lots*or lands for the purpose of laying off, opening,
extending, straightening or widening a street, alley or other
public highway, or is possessed of property which it desires
to improve for street purposes, the council may assess the cost
and expenses of such appropriation or acquisition, and of the
iniprovement, or of either, or of any part of either, upon the
general tax list, in which case the same shall be assessed upon
all the taxable real and personal property in the corporation.
"§ 2264. In the cases provided for in the last section, and
in all cases where an improvement of any kind is made of an
existing street, alley or other public highway, the council may
decline to assess the costs and expenses in the last section
mentioned or any part thereof, or the costs and expenses or
any part thereof of such improvement, except as hereinafter
mentioned, on the general tax list, in which event such costs
and expenses, or any part thereof which may -not be so
assessed on the general tax list, shall be assessed by the
council on the abutting and such adjacent and contiguous or
other benefited lots and lands in the corporation, either in
proportion to the benefits which may result from the improve-

NORWOOD v. BAKER.

-2T3

Opinion of the Court.

ment, or according to the value of the property assessed, or by
the front foot of the property bounding and abutting 'poqn the
improvement, as the council, by ordinance setting, forth specifically the lots and lands to be assessed, may determine before the
improvement is made, and in the manner and subject-to the restrictions herein contained; and tfhe assessments shall be payable in one or more instalments, and at such times as the council
may prescribe. . . ." 1 Rev. Stat. Ohio, p. 581.
Section 2271 provides: "In cities of the first grade of the
first class, and in corporations in counties containing'a city of
the first grade of the first class, the tax or assessment especially
levied or assessed upon any lot or land for any Improvement,
shall not, except as provided in § 2272, exceed twenty-five per
centum of the value of such lot or land after the.improvement
is made, and the cost exceeding that per centum shall be paid
by the corporation out of its general revenue; . . . and
whenever any street or avenue is opened, extended, straightened
or widened, the special assessment for the cost and expense,
or any part thereof, shall be assessed only on the lots and lands
bounding and abutting on such part or parts of said street or
avenue so improved, and shall include of such lots and lands
only to a fair average depth of lots in the neighborhood, but
shall also include other lots and parts thereof and lands to
such depth; and whenever at least one half in width of any
street or avenue has been dedicated for such, purpose from the
lots and lands lyirfg on one side of the line of such street or
avenue, and such street or avenue is widened by taking-from
lots and lands on the other side thereof, no part of the cost
and expense thus increased [incurred] shall be assessed upon
the lots and lands lying on said first-mentioned side, but only
upon the other side, and as aforesaid, but said special assessment shall not be in any case in excess of benefits." 1 Rev.
$tat. Ohio, p. 586.
Section 2272 relates to assessments for improvements made
in conformity with the petition of the owners of property.
By section 2277 it is provided that "in cases wherein it is
determined to assess the whole or any part of the cost of an
improvement upon the lot or lands bounding or abutting
VOL. CLXXI-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

.upon the same, or upon other lots or lands benefited thereby,
as provided in § 2264-, the council may require the board 5f
improvements, or board of public works, as the case may be,
or may appoint three disinterested freeholders of the corporation or vicinity, to report to the council an estimated assessment of such cost on: the lots or .lands to.be charged therewith,
in proportion, as nearly as may be, to the benefits which may
result from .the improvement to the several lots or parcels of
land so assessed, a copy of which assessment shall be filed in
the office of the clerk of the corporation for public inspection."
Section 2281 is in these words: "The cost of 'any improvement contemplated in this chapter shall include the purchase
money of real esate, or any interest therein, when the same
has been acquired by purchase, or the value thereof as found
by the jury, where the same has been appropriated, the costs
and expenses of the proceedings, the damages assessed in favor
of any owner of adjoining land§ and interest thereon, the costs
and expenses of the assessment, the -expense of the preliminary anhd other surveys, and of printing, puiblishing the notices
and ordinances required, including notice of assessment, and
serving notices on property owners, the cost of construction,
interest on bonds where bonds have been issued in anticipation of the collection of assessments, and any other necessary
expenditure."
By an ordinance approved October 19, 1891, the Village
declared its intention to condemn and appropriate, and by
that ordinance condemfied and appropriated, the lands or
grQunds in. question for the purpose of opening and extending
Ivenhoe Avenue: and in order to make such appropriation
efectual, the ordinance dirested the institution of the necessary proceedings in court for an inquiry and assessment of the
cbmpensation to be paid for the property to be condemned.
The ordinance provided that the cost and expense of the
condemnation of the property, including the compensation'paid to the owners, the cost of the condemnation proceedings,
'the cost of advertising and all other costs and the interest on
bonds issued, if any, should be assessed ".per front foot upon
the property bounding and abutting-on that part of Ivenhoe

NORWOOD v. BAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

Avenue, as condemned and appropriated herein "- the assessments payable in ten annual instalments if deferred, and the
same collected as prescribed by law and in the assessing
ordinance thereafter to be passed.
Under that ordinance, application was made by the Village
to the probate court of Hamilton County for the empanelling
of a jury to assess the compensation to be paid for the property to be taken. A jury was accordingly empanelled, and
it assessed the plaintiff's compensation at $2000, declaring
that they made the "assessment irrespective of any benefit
to the owner from any improvement proposed by said corporation."
The assessment was confirmed by the court, the amount
assessed was paid to the owner, and it was ordered that thy
Village have immediate possession and ownership of the
premises for the uses and'purposes specified in the ordinance.
The property condemned is indicated by the following plat:

Ave.

Hopkins

I

ELLEN

0

ft.,

BAKER.

IL

Land assessed to 4:
payforstrip.

Land assessed to
pay for strip.

"i0 ft..

Williams

Ave.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion: of the Court.

After the finding of the jury the Village council passed an
ordinance levying and assessing "on each frontfoot of the
several lots of uand
bounding and abutting on Ivenhoe Avenue,
from Williams Avenue to a point 300 feet north," certain sums
for each of the years 1892 to 1901 inclusive, " to pay the cost
and expense of condemning property for the extension of said
Ivenhoe Avenue between the points aforesaid [from Williams
Avenue to a point 300 feet north], together with the interest
on the bonds issued to provide a fund to pay for said condemnation."
By the same ordinance provision was made for issuing bonds
to provide for the payment of the cost and expense of the
condemnation, which included the amount found by the jury
as compensation for the property taken, the costs in the condemnation proceedings, solicitor and expert witness fees, advertising, etc.; in all, $2218.58.
The present suit was brought to obtain a decree restraining
the Village from enforcing the assessment in question against
the abutting property of the plaintiff.
It was conceded that the defendant assessed back upon the
plaintiff's 300 feet of land upon either side of the strip taken
(making 600 feet in all of frontage upon the strip condemned)
the above sum of $2218.58, payable in instalments, with interest at six per cent, the first instalment being $354.97 and. the
last or tenth instalment $235.17, lessening the same from year
to year in an amount of about $13 per annum; and the Village
admitted that the assessment had been placed upon the tax
duplicate, and sent to the county treasurer for collection, as a
lieon and cIarge against the abutting property owned by the
plaintiff.
But the Village alleged that the appropriation proceedings
and consequent assessment were all in strict conformity with
the laws and statutes of the State of Ohio and in pursuance
of due process of law; that the opening and extension of
venhoe Avenue constituted a public improvement for which
the abutting property was liable to assessment under the laws
of Ohio; that the counsel fees, witness fees and costs included
in such total assessment were a part of the legitimate ex-

NORW00D v. BAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

penses of such improvement; and that in any event an expense
bad been incurred by the municipal corporation in opening
the street "equal to the full amount of the said assessment,
which is a proper charge against the complainant's abutting
property."
It was agreed at the hearing of the present case that the
sum awarded by the verdict of the jury was paid to and
received by the plaintiff, and that it was that sum, together
with the costs and charges, that the Village undertook to
assess back upon the land upon either side of said strip of
land.
The plaintiff's suit proceeded upon the ground, distinctly
stated, that the assessment in question was in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment providing that no State shall deprive
any person of property without due process of law nor deny
to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of
the lavs, as well as of the Bill of Rights of the Constitution
of Ohio.
It has been adjudged that the due process of law prescribed
by that Amendment requires compensation to be -made or"
secured to the owner when private property is, taken by a
State or under its authority for public use. Chicago, Burlington &c. Railroadv. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 241; Long Island
Wfater Suyply Co. v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 685, 695.
The taking of the plaintiff's land for the street was under
the power of eminent domain - a power which this court has
said was the offspring of political necessity, and inseparable
from sovereignty unless denied to it by the fundamental law.
Searl v. Lake County School .District,133 U. S. 553. But
the assessment of the abutting property for the cost and expense incurred by the Village was an exercise of the power
of taxation. Except for the provision of the constitution of
Ohio above quoted, the State could have authorized benefits
to be deducted from the actual value of the land taken, without violating the constitutional injunction that compensation
be made for private property taken for public use; for the
benefits received could be properly regarded as compensation
pro tanto for the property appropriated to public use. But

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

does the exclusion of benefits from the estimate of compensation to be made for the property actually taken for public
use authorize the public to charge upon the abutting property
the sum paid for it, together with the entire costs incurred in
the condemnation proceedings, irrespective of the question
whether the property was benefited by the opening of the
street
Undoubtedly abutting owners may be subjected to special
assessments to meet the expenses of opening public highways
in front of their property- such assessments, according to
well-established principles, resting upon the ground that special
burdens may be imposed for special or peculiar benefits accruing from public improvements. .Mobile County v." Kimball,
102 U. S. 691, 703, 704; Illinois CentralIRailroadv. Decatur,
147 U. S. 190, 202; Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548, 589, and
authorities there cited. And according to the weight of
judicial authority, the legislature has a large discretion in
defining the territory to be deemed specially benefited by a
public improvement, and which may be subjected to special
assessment to meet the cost of such improvements. In Williams
v. Eggleston, 170 U. S. 304, 311, where the only question, as
this court stated, was as to the power of the legislature to cast
the burden of a public improvement upon certain towns, which
had been judicially determined to be towns benefited by such
improvement, it was said: "Neither can it be doubted that,
if the state constitution does not prohibit, the legislature,
speaking generally, may create a new taxing district, determine what territory shall belong to such district and what
property shall be considered as benefited by a proposed improvement."
But the power of the legislature in these matters is nt
unlimited. There is a; point beyond which the legislative
department, even when exerting the power of taxation, may
not go consistently with the citizen's right of property. As
already indicated, the principle underlying special assessments
to meet the cost of public improvements is that the property
upon which they are imposed is peculiarly benefited, and
therefore the owners do not, in fact, pay anything in excess of

NORWOOD v. BAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

what they receive by reason of such improvement. But the
guaranties for the protection of private property would be
seriously impaired, if it were established as a rule of constitutional law, that the imposition by the legislature upon particular private property of the entire cost of a public improvement, irrespective of any peculiar benefits accruing to the
owner from such improvement, could not be questioned by him
in the courts of the country. It is one thing for the legislature to prescribe it as a general rule that property abutting on
a street opened by the public shall be deemed to have been
specially benefited by such improvement, and therefore should
specially contribute to the cost incurred by the public. It is
quite a different thing to lay it down as an absolute rule that
such property, whether it-is in fact benefited or not by the
opening of the street, may be -assessed by thie froht foot for
a fixed sum representing the whole cost of the improvement,
and without any right in the property owner to show, when
an assessment of that kind is made or is about to be made, that
the sum so fixed is in excess of the benefits received.
In our judgment, the exaction from the owner of private
property of the cost of a -public improvement in substantial
excess of the special benefits accruing to him is, .to the extent
of 8UcA excess, a taking, under the guise of taxation, of private
property for public use without compensation. We say "substantial excess," because exact equality of taxation is not always attainable, and for that reason the excess of cost over
special benefits, unless it be of a material character, ought not
to be regarded by a court of equity when its aid is invoked to
restrain the enforcement of a special assessment.
In Illinois Central Railroadv. Decatur,147 U. S. 190, 202, where it was held that a provision in the charter of a railroad
company exempting it from taxation did not exempt it from
a municipal assessment imposed upon its land for grading and
paving a street, -the decision rested upon the ground that a
special assessment proceeds on the theory that the property
charged therewith derives an increased value from the improvement, "the enhancement in value being the consideration for
the charge."

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

In Cooley on Taxation, (2d ed. c. xx,) the author, in considering the subject of taxation by special assessment, and
of estimating benefits conferred upon property by a public
improvement, says that, while a general levy of taxes rests
upon the ground that the citizen may be required to make
contribution in that mode in return for the general benefits of
government, special assessments are a peculiar species of taxation, and are made upon the assumption that "a portion of
the community is to be specially and peculiarly benefited, in
the enhancement of the value of property peculiarly situated
as regards a contemplated expenditure of public funds; and,
in addition to the general levy, they demand that special contributions, in consideration of the special benefit, shall bb made
by the persons receiving it. The justice of demanding the
special contribution is supposed to be evident in the fact that
the persons who are to make it, while they are made to bear
the cost of a public work, are at the same time to suffer no
pecuniary loss thereby; their property being increased in
value by the expenditure to an amount at least equal to the
sum they are required to pay." Again, the author says:
"There can be no justification for any proceeding which
charges the land with an assessment greater than the benefits; it is a plain case of appropriating private property to
public uses without compensation."
In 2acon v. Patty, 57 Mississi-ppi, 378, 386, the Supreme
Court of Mississippi said that a special assessment is unlike an
ordinary tax, in that the proceeds of the assessment must be
expended in an improvement from which "a benefit clearly
exceptive and plainly perceived must inure to the property
upon which it is imposed."
So, lJthe .Hatter qf Canal Street, 11 Wend. 154, 155, 156.
which related to an assessment to meet the expenses of opening a street, the court, after observing that the principle that
private property shall not be taken for public use without just
compensation was found in the constitution and the laws of
the State, and had its foundation in those elementary principles of equity and justice which lie at the root of the social
compact, said: "The corporation may see the extent of the

NORWOOD v. BAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

benefit of any improvement, before proceedings are commenced; but the extent of injury to be done to individuals
cannot be known to them until the coming in. of the report of
the commissioners; they may then be satisfied that the property which is to be benefited will not be benefited to the extent of the assessment necessary to indemnify those whose
property is taken from them. What are they to do? If they
proceed, they deprive some persons of their property unjustly;
if the report of the commissioners is correct, the amount
awarded to the owners of property taken cannot be reduced
without injustice to them. If the assessment is confirmed and
enforced, the owners of the adjacent property must pay beyond the enhanced value of their own property, and all such
excess is private property taken for public use without just
compensation."
In .McCormack v. Patein, 53 Missouri, 33, 36, the Supreme
Court of Missouri said: "The whole theory of local taxation
or assessments is that the improvements for which they are
levied afford a remuneration in the way of benefits. A law
which would attempt to make one person, or a given number
of persons, under the guise of local assessments, pay a general
revenue for the public at large, would not be an exercise of
the taxing power, but an act of confiscation." See also Zoeller
v. .ellogg, 4 Mo. App. 163.
In State &-. v. lJoboken, 36 N. J. L. 291, 293, which was the
case of the improvement of a street and a special assessment to
meet the cost, -such cost being in excess of the benefits received by the property owner, - it was held that to the extent
of such excess private property was taken for public use
without compensation, because that received by the landowner
was not equal to that taken from him. It will not escape observation that if the entire cost incurred
by a municipal corporation in condemning land for the purpose of opening or extending a street can be assessed back
upon the abutting property, without inquiry inany form as to
the special benefits received by the owner, the result will be
more injurious to the owner than if he had been required, in
the first instance, to open the street at his own cost, without

OCTOBER TERME, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

compensation in respect of the land taken for the street; for,
by opening the street at his own cost, he .might save at least
the expense attending formal proceedings of condemnation.
It cannot be that any such result is consistent with. the principles upon which rests the power to make special assessments
upon property in order to meet the expense of public improvements in the vicinity of such property.
The views we have expressed are supported by other adjudged cases, as well as by reason and by the principles which
must be recognized as essential for the protection of private
property against the arbitrary .action of government. The
importance of the question before us renders it appropriate to
refer to some of those cases.
In State v. .Newark, 37 N. J. L. 415, 4-16, 420-423, the question arose as to the validity of an assessment of the expenses
incurred in repairing the roadbed of a portion of one of the
streets of the city of Newark. The assessment was made in
conformity to a statute that undertook to fix, at the mere will
of the legislature, the ratio of expense to be put upon the
owners of property along the line of the improvement. Chief
Justice Beasley, speaking for the Court of Errors and Appeals,
said: "The doctrine that it is competent for the legislature
to direct the expense of opening, paving or improving a public
street, or at least some part of such expense, to be put as a
special burthen on the property in' the neighborhood of such
improvement, cannot, at this day, be drawn in question.
There is nothing in the constitution 6f this State that requires
that all property in the State, or in any particular subdivision
of the State,.must be embraced in the operation of every law
levying.a tax. That the effect of such laws may not extend
beyond certain prescribed limits, is perfectly indisputable. It
is upon this principle that taxes raised in counties, townships
and cities are vindicated. But while it is thus clear that the
burthen of a particular tax may be placed on any political
district to whose benefit such tax is to enure, it seems to me
it is equally clear that, when such burthen is sought to be
imposed on particular lands, not in themselves constituting
a political subdivision of the State, we at once approach the

NORWOOD v. BAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

line which is the boundary between acts of taxation and acts
of confiscation. I. think it impossible to assert, with the
least show of reason, that the legislative right to select the
subject of taxation is not a limited right. For it would seem
much more in accordance with correct theory to maintain
that the power of selection of the property to be taxed cannot be contracted to a narrower bound than the political district within which it is to operate, than that such power is
entirely illimitable. If such prerogative has no trammel or
circumscription, then it follows that the entire burthen of one
of these public improvements can be placed, by the force of
the legislative will, on the property of a few enumerated
citizens, or even on that of a sipgle citizen. In a government
in which the legislative power is not omnipotent, and in which
it is a fundamental axiom that private property cannot be
taken without just compensation, the existence of -an unlimited
right in the lawmaking power to concentrate the burthen of
a tax upon specified property, does not exist. If a statute
should direct a certain street in a city to be paved, and the
expense of such paving to be assessed on the, houses standing at the four corners of such street, this would not be an
act of taxation, and it is presumed that no one would assert
it to be such. If this cannot be maintained, th~n it follows
that it is conceded that the legislative power in question is
not completely arbitrary. It has its limit; and the only
inquiry is, where that limit is to be placed."
After referring to a former decision of the same court, in
which it was said that special assessments could be sustained
ulion the theory that the party assessed was locally and peculiarly benefited above the ordinary benefit which as one of
the community he received in all public irm.provements, the
opinion proceeds: "It follows, then, that these local assessments are justifiable on the ground above, that the locality is
especially to be benefited by the outlay of the money to be
raised. Unless this is the case no reason can be assigned why
the tax is not general. An assessment laid on property along
a city street for an improvement made in another street, in a
distant part of the same city, would be universally condemned,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

both on moral and legal grounds. And yet there is no difference between such an extortion and the requisition upon a
landowner to pay for a public improvement over and above
the exceptive benefit received by him. It is true that the
power of taxing-is one of the high and indispensable prerogatives of the government, and it can be only in cases free from
all doubt that its exercise can be declared by the courts to be
illegal. But such a case, if it can ever arise, is certainly presented when a property is specified, out of which a public improvement is to be paid for in excess of the value specially
As to such excess I
imparted to it by such improvement.
cannot distinguish an act exacting its payment from the exercise of the power of eminent domain. In case of taxation
the citizen pays his quota of the common burthen; when his
land is sequestered for the public use he contributes more
than such quota, and this is the distinction between the effect
of the exercise of the taxing power and that of eminent domain. When, then, the overplus beyond benefits from these
local improvements is laid upon a few landowners, such citizens, with respect to such overplus, are required to defray
more than their share of the public outlay, and the coercive
act is not within the proper scope of the power to tax."
So, in"
Bogert v. Eizabeth City, 27 N. J.Eq. 568, 569, which
involved the validity of a provision in the charter of a city
directing the whole cost of.special improvements to be put on
the property on the line of the street opposite such improvements, the assessments to be made in a just and equitable
manner by the common city council, the court said: "The
sum of the expense is ordered to be put on certain designated
property, without regard to the proportion of benefit it has
received from the improvement. The direction is perfectly
clear; the entire burthen is to be borne by the land along the
line of the improvement, and the ratio of distribution among
the respective lots is left to the judgment of the common council. Such a power, according to legal rules now at rest in this
State, cannot be executed. The whole clause is nugatory and
void, and, all proceedings under it are not mere irregularities,
but are nullities."

TORIVOOD v. BAEIR.
Opinion of the Court.

In Hammett v. Philadelphia,65 Penn. St. 146, 151, 153, the
court, speaking by Judge Sharswood, said that it was a point
fully settled and at rest in that State, that the legislature has
the constitutional right to confer upon municipal corporations the power of assessing the costs of local improvements
upon the properties benefited, and that on the same principle the
validity of municipal claims assessing on the lots fronting upon
streets their due share of the cost of grading, curbing, paving,
building sewers and culverts, and laying water pipes, in proportion to their rcspective fronts, has been repeatedly recognized, and the liens for such assessments enforced. "These
cases," the court said, "all fall strictly within the rule as originally enunciated -local taxation for local purposes- or, as
it has been elsewhere expressed, taxation on the benefits conferred, and not beyond the extent of those benefits. . . . If the
sovereign breaks open the strong box of an individual or corporation and takes out money, or, if, not being paid on demnand, be seizes and sells the lands or goods of the subject, it
looks to me very much like a direct taking of private property for public use. It certainly cannot alter the case to call it
taxation. Whenever a local assessment upon an individual is
not grounded upon and measuredby, the extent of hisparticular
benefit, it is,yro tanto, a taking of his private property for public use without any provision for compensation."
In Barnes v. Dyfer, 56 Vermont, 469, 471, which involved
the validity of a statute relating to the construction and repair
of sidewalks in a city of Vermont, under the authority of its
common council, and directing the expense to be assessed on
the owners of property through which or fronting which such
sidewalks should be constructed, it was said: "The act in
question made no express allusion to assessment on account of
benefit; neither does it limit the assessment to the amount
of benefit. Yet, as we have seen, the right to assess at all
depends solely on benefit, and must be proportioned to and
limited by it. An improvement might cost double the benefit
to the land specially benefited."
In Thomas v. Gain, 35 Michigan, 155, 162, Chief Justice
Cooley, speaking for the Supreme Court of Michigan, said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"I is generally agreed that an assessment levied without regard to actual or probable benefits is unlawful, as constituting
an attempt to appropriate private property to public uses.
This idea is strongly stated in Tide-Water Co. v. Coster, 18
N. J. Eq. (3 C. E. Green) 519, which has often been cited with
approval in other cases. It is admitted that the legislatute
may prescribe the rule for the apportionment of benefits, but
it is not conceded that its power in this regard is unlimited.
The rule must at least be one which it is legally possible may
be just and equal as between the parties assessed; if it is not
conceivable that the rule prescribed is one which will apportion the burthen justly, or with such proximate justice as is
usually attainable in-tax cases, it must fall to the ground, like
any other merely arbitrary action which is supported by no
principle."
In the case of Tide-Water Co. v. Coster, supra,b18, 527, 528,
referred to by the Supreme Court of Michigan, it was said:
"Where lands are improved by legislative action on the ground
of public 7atility, the cost of such improvement, it has frequently been held, may, to a certain degree, be imposed on
the parties who, in consequence of owning the lands in the
vicinity of such improvement, receive a peculiar advantage.
By the operation of such a system it is not considered that
the property of the individual, or any part of it, is taken from
him for the public use, because he is compensated in the enhanced value of such property, But it is clear this principle
is only applicable *when the benefit is commensurate to the
burthen, when that which is received by the landowner is equal
or superior in ;alue to the sum exacted; for if the sum exacted
be in excess, then to that extent, most incontestably, private
property is assumed by the public. Nor, as to this excess, can
it be successfully maintained that such imposition is legitimate,
as an exercise of the power of taxation. Such an imposition
has none of the essential characteristics of a tax. We are to
bear in mind that this projected improvement is to be regarded
as one in which the public has an interest. The owners of
these lands have a.special concern in such improvements so
far as particular lands will be in a peculiar manner benefited.

NORWOOD v. BAKER.
Opinion of -the Court.

Beyond this their situation is like the rest of the community.
The consideration for the excess of the cost of ,improvement
over the enhancement of the property within the operation of
the act is the public benefit. The expenditure of this portion
of the cost of the work can only be justified on the ground of
benefit to the public. I am aware of no principle that will
permit the expense incurred in conferring such benefit on the
public to be laid in the form of a tax upon certain persons."
In Dillon's Treatise on Municipal Corporations there is an
extended discussion of this whole subject. In section 761 he
states the general results of the cases in the several States
concerning special assessments for local improvements. After
stating that a local assessment or tax upon the property bene* fited by a local improvement may be authorized by the legislature, he says: "Special benefits to -the property assessed,
that is, benefits received by it in addition to those received by
the community at large, is the true and only just foundation
upon which local assessments can rest; and to the extent of
8pecial beneftts it is everywhere admitted that the legislature
may authorize local taxes or assessments to be made." Again,
the author says: "When not restrained by the constitution
of the particular State, the legislature has a discretion, commensurate with the broad domain of legislative power, in
making provisions for ascertaining what property is specially
benefited and how the benefits shall be apportioned. This
proposition, as stated; is nowhere denied. But the adjudged
cases do not agree upon the extent of legislative power."
WVhile recognizing the fact that some courts have asserted
that the authority of the legislature in this regard is quite
without limits, the author observes that "the decided tendency of the later decisions, including those of the courts of
New Jersey, Michigan and Pennsylvania, is to hold that the
legislative power is not unlimited, and that these assessments
must be apportioned by some rule capable of producing
reasonable equality, and that provisions of such a nature as
to make it legally impossible that the burden can be apportioned with proximate equality are arbitrary exactions and
not an exercise of legislative authority." He further says:

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"Whether it is competent for the legislature to de.clare that
no part of the expense of a local improvement of a public
nature shall be borne by a general tax, and that the whole of
it shall be assessed upon the abutting property and other
property in the vicinity of the improvement, thus for itself
conclusively determining, not only that such property is
specially benefited, but that it is thus benefited to the extent of the cost of the improvement, and then to provide
for the apportionment of the amount by an estimate to be
made by designated boards or officers, or by frontage or
superficial area, is a question upon which the courts are not
agreed. Almost all of the earlier cases asserted that the
legislative discretion in the apportionment of public burdens
extended this far, and such legislation is still upheld in most
of the 'States. But since the period when express provisions
have been made in many of the state constitutions requiring
uniformity and equality of taxation, several courts of great
respectability, either by force of this requirement or in the
spirit of it., and perceiving that special benefits actually 'eceived
by each parcel of contributing property, was the ony principle up on' which such assessments can justly 'est, and that
any other rule is unequal, oppressive and arbitrary, have
denied the unlimited scope of legislative discretion and power,
and asserted what must uponprinciplebe r'egarded as the ju8t
and reasonable doctrine, that the cost of a local improvement
can be assessed upon particular property only to the extent
that it is specially and peculiarly benefited; and since the
'excess beyond that is a bepefit to the m9unicipality at large, it
must be borne by the general treasury."
It is said that the judgment below is not in accord with the
decision of the Supreme Court of Ohio in Cleveland City v.
Mick, 18 Ohio St. 303, 310. But that is a mistake. That case
only decided that the owner whose property was taken for a
public improvement could not have his abutting property exempt from its due proportion of an assessment made to cover
the expense incurred in making such improvement.; that his
liability in that regard was not affected by the fact that he
was entitled to receive compensation' for his property actually

NORWOOD v. BAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

taken for the improvement without deduction on account of
benefits to his other property. That the decision covered no
other point is shown by the following extract from the opinion of the court: "The mischief which existed under the old
constitution was, that the benefits which were common to his
neighbors, without charge, were deducted froni the price paid
to the owner of land taken. The evil might well be denominated inequality of benefits and burdens among adjoining
landowners. You paid for the owner's land in privileges, and
left him still liable, equally with his neighbors whose lands
were untaken, to any and all local assessments that might afterwards be imposed. This was unequal, and therefore deemed unjust. Experience proved, moreover, that it led to much abuse
of the power of condemnation. A full remedy is to be found
for these evils in the provision in question, without at all making it to interfere with the power of assessment. Construed
thus, it is in perfect accordance with the leading principle
of taxation in the new constitution- uniformity and equality
of burdens. It simply guarantees to the owner of land condemned a full price. When that is paid, he stands on a perfect equality with all other owners of adjoining lands, equally
liable, as he ought to be, to be taxed upon his other lands with
them. He has. the full price of his land in his pocket, and is
an equal participant with them in benefits to adjoining lands.
To throw the whole burden upon the others, in such a case,
would be to do them the precise injustice which was done to
him under the old constitution. To do so, would be to avoid
one evil only to run into another. It would be to avoid the
evil of withholding from him a full and fair price for his lands,
only to run into the equal evil of paying him two prices for it,
the second price being at the expense of his neighbors."
If the principles announced by the authorities above cited
be applied to the present case, the result must be an affirmance of the judgment.
We have seen that, by the Revised Statutes of Ohio relating
to assessments, the Village of Norwood was authorized to
place the cost and expense attending the condemnation of tbe
plaintiff's land for a public street on the general tax list of the
VoL. CLxx-19

OCTOBER TERi-,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

corporation, section 2263 ; but if the Village declined to adopt
that course, it was required by section 2261 to assess such cost
and expense "on the abutting and such adjacent and contiguous
or other benefited lots and lands in the corporation, either in
proportion to the benefits which may result from the improvement or according to the value of the property assessed, or by
the front foot of the property bounding and abutting upon
the improvement;" while by section 2271, whenever any
street or avenue was opened, extended, straightened or
widened, the special assessment for the cost and expense, or
any part thereof, "shall be assessed only on the lots and lands
bounding and abutting on such part or parts of said street or
avenue so improved, and shall include of such lots and lands
only to a fair average depth of lots in the neighborhood." It
thus appears that the statute authorizes a special assessmen;
upon the bounding and abutting property by the front foot
for the entire cost and expense of the improvement, without taking special benefits into account. And that was the
method pursued by the Village of Norwood. The corporation
manifestly proceeded upon the theory that the abutting property could be made to bear the whole cost of the improvement,
whether such property was. benefited or not to the extent
of such cost.
It is said that a court of equity ought not to interpose to
prevent the enforcement of the assessment in question, because the plaintiff did not show nor offer to show by proof
that the amount assessed upon her property was in excess of
the special benefits accruing to it by reason of the opening
of the street. This suggestion implies that if the proof had
showed an excess of cost incurred in opening the street over
the special benefits accruing to the abutting property, a decree
might properly have been made enjoining the assessment to
the extent simply that such, cost exceeded the benefits. We
do not concur in this view. As the pleadings show, the Village proceeded upon the theory, justified by the words of the
statute, that the entire cost incurred in opening the street,
including the value of the property appropriated, could,
when the assessment was by the front foot, be put upon the

NORWOOD v. BAKEIR.
Opinion of the Court.

abutting property, irrespective of special benefits. The assessment was by the front foot and for a specific sum representing such cost, and that sum could not have been reduced
under the ordinance of the Village even if proof. had been
made that the costs and expenses assessed upon the abutting
property exceeded the special benefits. The assessment was
in itself an illegal one because it rested upon a basis that
excluded any consideration of -benefits. A decree enjoining
the whole assessment was therefore the only appropriate one.
Nor is the present case controlled by the general principle
announced in many cases that a court of equity will not relieve
a party against .an assessment for taxation unless he tenders
or offers to pay what he admits or what is seen to be due.
That rule is thus stated in i3ational Bank v. Kimball, 103
U. S. 732, 733: "We have announced more than once that
it is the established rule of this court that no one can be permitted to go into a court of equity to enjoin the collection
of a tax, until he has shown himself entitled to the aid of
the court by paying so much of the tax assessed against
him as it can be plainly seen he ought to ray; that he shall
not be permitted, because his tax is in excess of what is just
and lawful, to screen himself from paying any tax at all until
the precise amount which he ought to pay is ascertained by
a court of equity; and that the owner of property liable to
taxation is bound to contribute his lawful share to the current
expenses of government, and cannot throw that share on
others while he engages in an expensive and protracted litigation to ascertain 'that the amount which he is assessed is
or is not a few dollars more than it ought to be. But that
before he asks this exact and scrupulous justice, he must first
do equity by paying so much as it is lear he ought toyay, and
contest and delay only the remainder. State -RailroadTax
cases, 92 U. S. 575." The same principle was announced in
.Northern Pacific Railroadv. Clark, 153 U. S. 252, 272.
In Cammings v. National Bank, 101 U. S. 153, 157, which
was the case of an injunction against the enforcement in Ohio
of an illegal assessment upon the shares of stock of a national
bank, this court, after observing that the bank held a trust

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

relation that authorized a court of equity to see that it was
protected in the exercise of the duties appertaining to it, said:
"But the statute of the State expressly declares that suits
may be brought to enjoin the illegal levy of taxes and assessments, or the collection of them. § 5848 of the Revised Stat:utes of Ohio, 1880; vol. liii, Laws of Ohio, 178, §§ 1, 2. And
though we have repeatedly decided in this court that the
statute of a State cannot control the mode of procedure in
equity cases in Federal courts, nor deprive them of their
separate equity jurisdiction, we have also held that, where
a statute of a State created a new right or provided a new
remedy, the Federal courts will enforce that right either on
the common law or equity side of its docket, s the nature of
the new right or new remedy requires. Van Norden v. forton,
99 U. S. 378. Here there can be no doubt that the remedy
by injunction against an illegal 'tax, expressly granted by the
statute, is to be enforced, and can only be appropriately enforced, on the equity side of the court." Again: "Independently of this statute, however, we are of opinion that when
a rule or 8ystem of valuation is adopted by those whose duty
it is to make the 'assessment, which is designed to operate
unequally and to violate a fundamental principle of the constitution, and when this rule is applied not solely to one
individual, but to a large class of individuals or corporations,
that equity may properly interfere to restrain the operation
of this unconstitutional exercise of power." These observations are pertinent to the question of the power and duty of
a court of equity to interfere for the.plaintiff's relief. The
present case is one of illegal assessment under a rule or 8y8ten which, as -we have stated, violated the constitution, in
that the entire cost of the street improvement was imposed
upon. the abutting property, by the front foot, without any
reference to special benefits.
Mr. High, in his Treatise on Injunctions, says that no principle is more firmly established than that requiring a taxpayer, who seeks the aid of an injunction against the enforcement or collection of a tax, first to pay or tender the amount
which is conceded to be legally and properly due, or which is

NORWOOD v. BAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

plainly seen to be due. But he also says: "It is held, however, that the general rule requiring payment or tender of the
amount actually due as a condition to equitable relief against
the illegal portion of the tax, has no application to a case
where the entire tax fails by reason of an illegal assessment.
And in such case an injunction is proper without payment or
tender of any portion of the tax, since it is impossible for the
court to determine what portion is actually due, there being
no valid or legal tax assessed."
The present case is not one in which -as in most of the
cases brought to enjoin the collection of taxes or the enforcement of special assessments - it can be plainly or clearly seen,
from the showing made by the pleadings, that a particular
amount, if no more, is due from the plaintiff, and which
amount should be paid or tendered before equity would interfere. It is rather a case in which the entire assessment is
illegal. In such a case it was not necessary to tender, as a
condition of relief being granted to the plaintiff, any sum as
representing what she supposed, or might guess, or was willing
to concede, was the excess of cost over any benefits accruing
to the property. She was entitled, without making such a
tender, to ask a court of equity to enjoin the enforcement of
a i'ule of assessment that infringed upon her constitutional
rights. In our judgment the Circuit Court properly enjoined
the enforcement of the assessment as it was, without going
into proofs as to the excess of the cost of opening the street
over special benefits.
It should be observed that the decree did not relieve the
abutting property from liability for such amount as could
be properly assessed against it. Its legal effect, as we now
adjudge, was only to prevent the enforcement of the particular assessment in question. It left the Village, in its
discretion, to take such steps as were within its power to take,
either under existing statutes, or under any authority that
might thereafter be conferred upon it, to make a new assessment upon the plaintiff's abutting property for so much of the
expense of opening the street as was fobnd upon due and
proper inquiry to be equal to the special benefits accruing to

1294:

OCTOBER TER-M, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the property. By the decree rendered the court avoided the
performance of functions appertaining to an assessing tribunal
or body, and left the subject under the control of the local
authorities designated by the State. Such a decree was more
appropriate than one enjoining the assessment to such extent
as, in-the judgment of the Circuit Court, the cost of the improvement exceeded the special benefits. The decree does not
prevent the Yillage, if it has or obtains power to that end,
from proceeding to make an assessment in conformity with
the view indicated in this opinion, namely: That while abutting property may be specially assessed on account of the
expense attending the opening of a public street in front of
it, such assessment must be measured or limited by the special
benefits accruing to it; that is, by benefits that are not shared
by the general public; and that taxation of the abutting property for any substantial excess of Such expense over special
benefits will, to the extent of such excess, be a taking of private property for public use without compensation.
It has been suggested that what has been said by us is not
consistent with our decision in P)arsons v. District of Colum.bia, 170 U. S. 45, 52, 56. But this is an error. That was
the case of a special assessment against land in the District of
Columbia, belonging to the plaintiff Parsons, as a water main
tax, or assessment for laying a water main in the street on
which the land abutted. The work was done under the
authority of an act of Congress establishing a comprehensive
system for the District, and regulating the supply of water
and the erection and maintenance of reservoirs aid water
mains. This court decided that "it was competent for Congress to create a general system to store water and furnish it
to the inhabitants of the District, and to prescribe the amount
of the assessment and the method of its collection; and that
the plaintiff in error cannot be heard to complain that he was
not notified of the creation of such a system or consulted as
to the probable cost thereof. He is presumed to have notice
of these general laws regulating such matters. The power
conferred upon the commissioners was, not to make assessments upon abutting properties, nor to give notice to the prop-

NORWOOD v. BAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

erty owners of such- assessments, but to determine the question
of the propriety and necessity of laying water mains and water
pipes, and of erecting fire plugs and hydrants, and their bona
Side exercise of such power cannot be reviewed by the courts."
One of the points in the case was presented by the contention
that "the assessment exceeded the actual cost of the work."
But that objection, the court -said, overlooked "the fact that
the laying of this main was part of the water system, and that
the assessment prescribed was not merely to put down the
pipes, but to raise a fund to keep the syslem in efflcient refair.
The moneys raised beyond the expense of laying the pipe are
not paid into the general treasury of the District, but are set
aside to maintain and repair the system; and there is no such
dis.proportion between the amount assessed and the actual cost
as to show any abuse of legislative power. A similar objection
was disposed of by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts in the case of Leominster v. Conant, 139 :Mass. 384. In
that case the validity of an assessment for a sewer was denied
because the amount of the assessment exceeded the cost of the
sewer; but the court held that the legislation in question 'had
created a sewer system, and that it was lawful to make assessments by a uniform rate which had been determined upon for
the sewerage territory." If the cost of laying the water mains
in question in that case had exceeded the value of the property specially assessed, or had been in excess of any benefits
received by that property, a different question would have
been presented.
Nor do we think that the present case is necessarily controlled by the decision in Spencer v. Merchant,125 U. S. 345,
351, 357. That case came here upon writ of errof to the
highest court of New York. It related to an assessment, by
legislative enactment, upon certain isolated parcels of land,
of a named aggregate amount which remained unpaid of the
cost of a street improvement. In reference to the statute,
the validity of which was questioned, the court said: 1'By the
statute of 1881 a sum equal to so much of the original assessment as remained unpaid, adding a proportional part of the
expenses of making that assessment, and interest since, was

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ordered by the legislature to be levied and equitably apportioned by the supervisors of the county upon and among these
lots, -after public notice to all parties interested to appear and
be heard upon the question of such apportionment; and that
sum was levied and assessed accordingly upon these lots, one
of which was owned by the plaintiff. The question submitted
to the Supreme Court of the State was whether this assessment on the plaintiff's lot was valid. He contended that the
statute of 1881 was unconstitutional and void, because it was
an attempt by the legislature to validate a void assessment,
without giving the owners of the lands assessed an opportunity
to be heard upon the whole amount of the assessment." Again:
"The statute of 1881 afforded to the owners notice and hearing upon the question of the equitable apportionment among
them of the sum directed to be levied upon all of them, and
thus enabled them to contest the constitutionality of the
statute; and that was all the notice and hearing -to which
they were entitled." The point raised in that case - the only
point in judgment- was one relating to proper notice to tile
owners of the property assessed, in order that they might be
heard upon the question of the equitable apportionment of
the sum directed to be levied upon all of them. This appears
from both the opinion and the dissenting opinion in that
case.
We have considered the question presented for our determination with reference only to the provisions of the National
Constitution. But we are also of opinion that, under any
view of that question different from the one taken in this
opinion, the requirement of the constitution of Ohio that
compensation be made for private property taken for public
use, and that such compensation must be assessed "without
deduction for benefits to any property of the owner," would
be of little practical value if, upQn the opening of a public
street through private property, the abutting property of the
owner, whose land was taken for the street, can, under legislative authority, be assessed not only for such amount as will be
equal to the benefits received, but for such additional amount
as will meet the excess of expense over benefits.

NORWOOD v. BAKER.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J.

The judgment of the Circuit Court must be affirmed, upon,
the ground that the assessment againstthe plaintiff's abutting .propertywas under a rule which excluded any inquiry
as to special benefts, and the necessary operation of which
was, to the extent of the excess of the cost of opening the
street in question over any special benefits accruing to the
abutting property therefrom, to take private property for
public use without compensation; and it is so ordered.
MR. JusTic. BRBwnR dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in this
case and for these reasons:
First. The taking of land for a highway or other public
uses is a public improvement, the cost of .which, under the
constitution of Ohio, may be charged against the property
benefited. Cleveland v. Wick, 18 Ohio St. 304.
Second. Equally true is this under the Constitution of the
United States. Shoemaker v. UnitedStates, 147 U. S..28.2, 302;
Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548.
Third. The cost of this improvement was settled in judicial
proceedings to which the defendant in error was a party, and
having received the amount of the award she is estopped to
deny that the cost was properly ascertained.
Fourth. A public improvement having been made, it is,
beyond question, a legislative function, (and a common council duly authorized, as in this case, has legislative powers,) to
determine the area benefited by such improvements, and the
legislative determination is conclusive. Spencer v. -Merchant,
100 N. Y. 585, in which the .court said:
"The act of 1881 determines absolutely and conclusively the
amount of the tax to be raised, and the property to be assessed,
and upon which it is to be apportioned. Each of these things
was within the .power of. the legislature, whose action cannot
be reviewed in the courts upon the ground that it acted un.
By
justly or without appropriate and adequate reasons. .
the act of 1881, the legislature imposes the unpaid portion
of the cost and expense, with the interest' thereon, upon that
portion of the property benefited which has thus far borne

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J.

none of the burden. In so doing, it necessarily 'determines
two things, viz., the amount to be realized, and the property
specially benefited by the expenditure of. that amount. The
lands might have been benefited by the improvement, and
so the legislative determination that they were, and to what
amount or proportion of the cost, even if it may have been
mistakenly unjust, is not open to our review. The question of
special benefit and the property to which it extends is of necessity a question of fact, and when the legislature determines it
in a case within its general power, its decision must of course
be final."
.Same Case, 125 U. S. 345, 355, in which the judgment of
the Court of Appeals of the State of New York was affirmed,
and in which this court said : "The legislature, in the exercise
of its power of taxation, has the right to direct the whole or
a part of the expense of a public improvement, such as the
laying out, grading or repairing of a street, to be assessed
upon the owners of lands benefited thereby; and the determination of the territorial district which should be taxed for
a local improvement is within the province of legislative disWillard v. Presbury, 14 Wall. 676; Davidson v.
cretion.
_New Orleans, 96 U: S. 97; .Afobile County v. Himall, 102
U. S. 691, 703, 704; Ilagar v. Reclamation District, 111
U. S. 701."
lWilliams v. Eggleston, 170 U. S. 304, 311, in which this
court declared: "Neither can it be doubted that, if the state
constitution does not prohibit, the legislature, speaking generally, may create a new taxing district, determine what territory shall belong to such district and .what property shall be
considered as benefited by a proposed improvement."
Parsons v. Districtof Columbia,-170 U. S. 45, in which this
court sustained an act of Congress in respect to the District of
Columbia, not only determining the area benefited by a public improvement, to wit, the grofind fronting on the street in
which the'improvement was made, but also assessing the cost
of such improvement at a specified rate, to wit, $1.25 per front
foot on such area.
in this case we quoted approvingly from Dillon's Municipal

NORWOOD v. BAKER.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J.

Corporations, 4th edition, volume 2, section -752, in reference
to this matter of assessment, (p. 56):." Whether the expense
of making such improvements shall be paid out of the general
treasury, or be assessed upon the abutting propqrty or other
property specially benefited, and, if in the latter mode, whether
the assessment shall be upon all property found to be benefited, or alone upon the abutters, -according to frontage or
according to the area of their lots, is, according to the present
weight of authority, considered to be a question of- legislative
expediency."
In the case at bar the question of apportionment is not important because the party charged owned all of the lind
within the area described, all of the land abutting upon the
improvement. The rule would be the same if one hundred
different lots belonging to as many. different parties faced on
the new street.
The legislative act charging the entire cost of an improvement upon certain described property is a legislative determination that the property described constitutes the area
benefited, and also that it is benefited to the extent.of such
cost. It is unnecessary to inquire how far courts might be
justified in interfering in a case in which it appeared that the
legislature had attempted to cast the burden of a public improvement on property remote therefrom and obviously in"
no
way benefited thereby, for here the property charged with
the burden of the improvement is that abutting upon such
improvement, the property Trimafacie benefited thereby, and
the authorities which I have cited declare that it is within the
legislative power to determine the area of the property benefited and the extent to which it is benefited. It seems to me
strange to suggest that an act of the legislature or an ordinance of a city casting, for instance, the cost of a sewer, or sidewalk in a street, upon all the abutting property, ib invalid
unless it provides for a judicial inquiry whether such abutting
property is in fact benefited, and to the full cost of the improvement, or whether other property might not also be to
some degree benefited, and therefore chargeable with part of
the cost.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J.

Again, it is a maxim in equity that he who seeks equity
must do equity, and as applied to proceedings to restrain the
collection of taxes, that the party invoking the aid of a court
of equity must allege and prove payment, or an offer to pay
such portion of the taxes or assessment as is properly chargeable upon the property. This proposition has been iterated
and reiterated in many cases. In State Railr"oad Tax case8,
92 U. S. 575, 617, it was laid down "as a rule to govern the
courts of the United States in their action in such cases."
Further, the mere fact that tax proceedings are illegal has
never been held sufficient to justify relief in equity. These
propositions have been uniformly and consistently followed.
See among.late cases N~orthern Pacifc Railroad v. Clark, 153
U. S. 252, 272. There is nothing in Cummings v. NT ational
Bank, 101 U. S. 153, 163, in conflict with the foregoing propositions. In that case it appeared that the local assessors of
Lucas County, in which the bank was situated, agreed upon
a rule of assessment by which money or invested capital was
assessed at six tenths of its value, while the shares of national
banks were assessed at their full cash value. It was held that
an unequal rule of assessment having been adopted by the
assessors, and that rule "applied not solely to one individual,
but to a large class of individuals or corporations," equity
might properly interfere. But in that case the bank had paid
to the county treasurer the tax which it ought to have paid,
as shown by the closing words of the opinion of the court:
"The complainant having paid to the defendant, or into the
Circuit Court for his use, the tax which was its true share of
the public burden, the decree of the Circuit Court enjoining
the collection of the remainder is affirmed." If that creates
an exception to the general equity rules in respect to tax proceedings, I am unable to perceive it.
Here the plaintiff does not allege that her property was
not benefited by the improvement and to the amount of the
full cost thereof; does not allege any payment or offer to
pay the amount properly to be charged upon it for the benefits received, or even express a willingness to pay what the
courts shall determine ought to be paid. On the contrary,

NORWOOD v. BAKER.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J.

so far as the record discloses, either by the bill or her testimony, her property may have been enhanced in value ten
times the cost of the condemnation. Neither is it charged that
any other property was benefited in the slightest degree. It
is well to quote all that is said in. the bill in this respect:
"Your complainant complains of the defendant corporation
that the said corporation, through its officers, its council,
clerk and mayor, undertook and has undertaken to assess
back upon this plaintiff's 300 feet upon either side of the said
strip so taken, not only the said two thousand dollars, the
amount adjudged to this plaintiff as the value of her property
so taken, but also counsel fees, expenses of the suit, expenses
and fees of expert witnesses, and other costs, fees and expenses to this complainant unknown, and has proceeded to
assess for opening and extending the said Ivenhoe street or.
avenue for the 300 feet upon each side upon her premises,
making 600 feet in all of frontage upon the said strip so condemned by the defendant corporation, the sum of $2218.58,
payable in instalments, with interest at six per cent, the first
instalment being $354.97 and the last or tenth instalment
$235.17, lessening the same from year to year in an amount
of about $13 per annum.
"That is to say, the said defendant corporation has undertaken to take 300 by 50 feet of this complainant's property,
and, fixing the valuation upon it by proceedings at law, now
undertakes to assess upon the complainant's adjacent propert*v,
300 feet upon each side, the said $2000, the value of the same
as adjudged by the court in the said condemnation proceedings, with all of the costs incidental thereto, including counsel
and witness fees, so that in effect the property of this complainant has been taken and is sought to be taken by the
defendant corporation for the uses of itself and the general
public without any compensation in fact to the complainant
therefor, but at an actual expense and outlay in addition that is to say, the corporation purposes by assessment to
make this complainant not only pay for her own property
taken for the benefit of the defendant, but also to pay the
costs of so taking it without compensation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J.

"Wherefore she invokes her remedy given her by statute
by injfunction. She avers that the said seizure and takinj
of her said-property and the pretended condemnation of the
same and assessment of the same with added costs back upon
her own property for. the benefit of the defendant corporation
and the general public is a seizure of her property without
compensation; not only that, but at costs to her besides, in
that the defendants have undertaken to make her pay for the
taking of her property without a compensation in addition to
the value of the property, and that she is without remedy
and powerless unless she may have and invoke the equitable
interference, as the statute authorizes her, of this honorable
cQurt."

The testimony -is equally silent as to the matter of damages
and benefits. There is not' only no averment, but not even
a su'ggestion, that any other property than that abutting
on the proposed improvement, and belonging to plaintiff, is
in the slightest degree benefited-thereby. Nor is there an
averment or a suggestion that her property, thus improved
by the opening of a street, has not been raised in value far
above the cost of improvement. So that a legislative act
charging the'cost ot an improvement in laying out a street,
(ind the same rule-olitains if it was-the grading, macadamizing or-Iavikngthe street,)-upon the property abutting thereon,
is adjudged not only not conclusive that such abutting property
is benefited to the full cost thereof, but further, that it is not
even primafacie evidence thereof, and that before such an
assessment can be sustained it must be shown, not simply that
the legislative body has fixed the area of the taxing district,
but also that, by suitable judicial inquiry, it has been established that such taxing district is benefited to the full amount
of the cost of the improvement, and also that no other prop:
erty is likewise benefited.
The suggestion that such an
assessment be declared void because the rule of assessment is
erroneous, implies that it is prima facie erroneous to cast
upon property abutting upon an improvement the cost
thereof; that a legislative act casting upon such abutting
property the full cost of an improvement, isprimafacievoid;

WINSTON v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

that, being primafacie void, the owner of any property so
abutting on the improvement may obtain a decree of a court
of equity cancelling in tolo the assessment without denying
that his property is benefited by the improvement, or paying, or offering to pay, or expressing a willingness to pay, any
sum which may be a legitimate charge upon the property, for
the value of the benefit to it by such improvement.
In this case no tender was made of any sum, no offer to
pay the amount properly chargeable for benefits, there was
no allegation or testimony that the legislative judment as
to the area benefited, or the amount of the benefit was incorrect, or that other property was also benefited, and the opinion
goes to the extent of holding that the legislative deterinination is not only not conclusive but also is not even primafacie
sufficient, and that in all cases there must be a judicial inquiry
as to the area in fact benefited. We have often held the contrary, and I think should adhere to those oft-repeated rulings.
MR.SUSTIOE GRiAY and AR.JUSTICE SuIRAs also dissented.

WINSTON v. UNITED STATES.
STRATHER v. UNITED STATES.
SMITHZ v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
Nos. 431,432, 433. Argued November 2S, 169S. -Decided

January 8,1899.

Under the act of Congress of January 15, 1897, c. 29, § 1, by which " in all
cases where the accused is found guilty of the crime of murder," "the
jury may qualify their verdict by adding thereto ' without capital punishment,' and whenever the jury shall return a verdict qualified as aforesaid the person convicted shall be sentenced to imprisonment at hard
labor for life," the authority of the jury to decide that the accused shall
not be punished capitally is not limited to cases in which the court, or
the jury, is of opinion that there are palliating or mitigating circum-

