SUPREME COURT.

76

Porterfield v. Clark.

in the hands of the aforesaid marshal for servie and satisfaction
thereof: Onr consideration whereof, it'is now here -ordered by this
court that a writ of supersedeas be, and the same is hereby awarded
to.be directed *tothe aforesaid marshal; commanding and enjoining
hin and his deputies, to stay every and all proceedings upon the
said writ of fierzfacias, and that he returnthe said execution with
the writ of supersedeasto the said Circuit Court, and that the judges
of the said Circuit Court do cause the said writ of execution to be
quashed,. the same having been unjustly, improvidently, and errone*ously issued out of the said court, at the instance of the said plaintiff.
You, therefore, the marshal of the United States for the western
district of Pennsylvania, are hereby commanded that, from every
and all proceedings on.the said feri facias or in any -wise molesting
the said defendants on the account aforesaid, you entirely surcease,
as being superseded, and that you do forthwith return the said fieri
faios, together with this supersedecs to the said Circuit Court, as
you will answer the'contrary at your peril. And ydu the judges of
the said Circuit Court are hereby commanded that such futher proceedings be had in the premises, in conformity to ihe order of this
court, and as according to right and justice, and the laws of the
United States ought to 'be had, the said execution notwithstanding.
WITNESS the Honourable Roger B. Taney, Chief Justice of the
said Supreme Court, the 13th day of March, in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty-four.
WM. Taos. CARROLL,
Clerk of the Supreme Court of the United States.

W"uLi& "KiNNEzy AND JAMES J. MECHIE, EXECUTORS AND TRusJTEEE
OF ROBERT PORTERPFIELD, DECEASED, V. .MERIWETHER L. CLARK,
WILLIAM

P.

CLARK,

GEORGE

R. H.

R.
, I; CLARK HIS

CLARK, ANP JEFFERSON

CLARK, A MINOR BY THE AFORESAID GEORGE
GUARDIAN,
AND

HEIRS AND DEVISEES OF

ROBERT 0.,

ANN

WILLIAM CLARK, DECEASED,

C.,- GEORGE

W.,

AND

FRANCES

JANE

WOOLFOLK, HEIRS OF GEORGE WOOLFOLK, DECEASED, AND OTHERS.

An act of the legislature of Virginia, passed in May, 1779, "establishing a landoffice, and, ascertaining the tetms and manner of granting waste and'unap.
propriated lands," contained, amongst other exceptions, the 'following, viz.:

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

77

Porterfield v. Clark.
no entry or location of land shall be admitted within the country and limits
of the Cherokee Indians.
The tradt of country lying on the west of the Tennessee river, was not then the
country of the Cherokee Indians, and, of course, not within the exception.
A title may be tried in Virginia, Kentucky, and Tennessee, as effectually upon
a caveatas in any other mode; and the parties, as also those claiming under
them, are estopped by the decision.
The boundaries of the Cherokees, as fixed by treaties, historically examined,
and alsu the nature, limits, and effect of the grant to,Henderson and Company.
Whatever lands in Virginia were not within the exceptions of the act of 1779,
. were subject to appropriation by Txeasury
warrants.
'As the rule is settled, that the decisions of state courts, construing state laws,
are to be adopted by this court, and as the courts of Kentucky have decided
that an entry was required to give title on a military warrant, in'the military
district, this court decides that the legislative grant of Virginia to her officers
and soldiers, would not, of itself, preient the statute of limitations of Kentuckk
from attaching.
The Kentucky act of 1809, applied to the Chickasaw country on the west of the
Tennessee river, as far as treaties would permit; and upon the extinguishment of the Indian title, this act, together with all the other laws, was extended
over the country.

Tins case was brought up by appeal from the Circuit Court of
the United States for the district of Kentucky, sitting as a court of
equity and arose upon the following state of fact"
On the 191h December, .1778; the General As~embly of Virginia
passed a joint resolution, declaring that a certain tract of country, to
be bounded by the Green river and a south-east course from the head
thereof to the Cumberland mountains, with the said mountains to the
Carolina line, with the Carolina line to the Cherokee or Tennessee
river, -withthe said river to the Ohio, and -ith the Ohio to Green
river, ought to be reserved for supplying the officers and. soldiers of
the Virginia line with the respective proportions of land, which have
been or may be assigned to them by the General Assembly, sving
and reserving the land granted to Richard Henderson and Company,
and their legal rights to such persons as have heretofore actually

located lands and settled thereon, within the bounds aforesaid.
In May, 1779, every purchase of lands, theretofore made by or on
behalf of the crown of Great Britain, from any nation of Ifidians
within the limits of Virginia, -was declared to enure. to the benefit
of that commonwealth, and all sales and deeds made by any Indian,
or nation of Indians, to or for the separate use of any person or per-

sons, were pronounced void.

SUPREME COURT.
Porterfield v. Clark.

In May, 1779, also, an act was pass d by the General Assembly
" for establishing a land-office, and asoerfaining the terms and manner of granting waste and unappropriated lands." This act contained,
amongst other things, the following rdstrictions :-" No entry, or
location of land shall be admitted within the country and limits of
the Cherokee Indians, or on the north-west side of the Ohio river,
or on the lands reserved by act of Assembly for anyparticular nation
or tribe of Indians, or.on the lands granted by law to Richard Henderson and Company, or'in that tract of country reserved by resolution of the General Assembly for the benefit of the troops serving in
the present war, and bounded by the Green-river and sduth-east
course frorii the head thereof to the Cumberland mountains, with the
said mountains to the Carolina line, with the Carolina line to the
Cherokee or Tennessee river, with the said river to the Ohio river,
and with the Ohio to the said Green river, until the further order of
the General Assembly."In October, 1779, an act was passed "for more effectually securing to the officers and soldiers of the Virginia line, the lands reserved
to them," &d.
The first section imposed a heavy penalty on settlers who should
not evacuate the reserved lands.
The second ascertained the proportions or quantity of land to be
granted, at the end. of the war, to the officers of the Virginia line,. on
continental or state establishment, or to the officers of the navy; and
it was also provided that where any officer, soldier, or sailor, shall
have fallen or died in the -service, his heirs or legal representatives
shall be entitled to; and receive, the same quantity of land as would
have been due to such officer, soldier, or sailor, respectively, had he
been living.
On the 18th of May, 1780, Colonel George Rogers Clark, (under
whom the defendants claim,) upon sundry Treasury warrants, made
with the surveyor several entries of land, inall amounting to .74,962
acres, lying in the then state of Virginia, below the Tennessee river;
and afterwards, said Clark, in like manner, on the 26th October,
1780, amended his said entries, "to begin on the'Ohio at the mouth
of the Tennessee river, running down the Ohio, bounded bythe
drowned lands of the said rive and waters of the Mississippi, for the
quantity of 7496.2 acres, in one or more surveys.
In October, 1780, an act passed " for making good the future pay
of the army."

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

79

Porterfield v. Clark.

It allowed a major-general 15,000 acres of land, and a brigadiergeneral 10,000.
It entitled the legal representative of any officer who may have
lied in the service before the bounty of lands granted by that or any
former law, to deinand and receive the same in like manner as the
officer himself might have done. And as a testimony of the high
sense the General Assembly of Virginia entertained of the important
services rendered the United States by Major-General Baron Steuben,
it was further enacted that 15,000 acres of land be granted to the
said Major-General Baron Steuben, in like manner as is herein-before
granted to other major-generals.
In November, 1781, an act passed ccto adjust and regulate .the
pay and accounts of the officers and soldiers of the Virginia line,?' &c.
The eighth section declared " That whereas a considerable part
of the tract of country allotted for the officers and soldiers by an act
of Assembly, entitled cAn act for establishing a land-office,' &c.,
bath, upon the extension of the boundary line between this state and
North Carolina, fallen into that state, and the intentions of the said
act are so far frustrated, Be it therefore enacted, That 'all that tract
of land included within the rivers Mikssippi, Ohio, and Tennessee,
and the Carolina boundary line, shall be and the same is hereby
substituted in lieu of the lbnds so fallen into the said state of North
Carolina, to be in the same mhanner, subject to be claimed by the
said officers and soldiers."
The ninth section required the governor, as soon as the circumstances of affairs -would admit, to appoint surveyors for the purpose
of surveying and apportioning the lands theretofore reserved to the
officers and soldiers agreeably to their ranks, in such manner and in
such proportions as were allowed by act of Assembly as a bounty for
military services.
The officers were authorized to depute and. appoint as many of
their number as they might think proper, to superintend the laying
off the lands, with power to choose the best of the same thus to be
allotted, and point out the same to the surveyors who were reqvired
to make the surveys, and be subject to the orders of the superintendents throughout the survey.
After the survey, the portions of each rank were to be numbered,
and the officers and soldiers were to proceed to draw lots according to
their respective ranks, and to locate as soon-as they thought proper.
The twelfth section provided ccThat the bounties of land given

80

SUPREME COURT.
Porterfield v. Clark.

to the officers and soldiers of the Virginia line in continental service,
and the regulations for the surveying and appropriating the same,
shall be extended to the state officers.
In May, 1782, an act. was passed, entitled "An act for providing
more effectual funds for the redemption of certificates granted the
officers and soldiers raised by this state."
The seventh'sedtion provided that, "Whereas it is'necessary thaE
the number of claims to any part of the lands appropriated for the
benefit of the said officers and soldiers should be speedily ascertained; Be it therefore enacted, That all persons having claims as
aforesaid, be required, and they are hereby directed, to transmit
authenticated vouchers of the same to the war-office, on or before
the first bf January next," nd those without the state were required
to do the same- on or before the first of June.
The eighth section directed the register of the land-office to grant,
to the officers and soldiers, warrants for the lands allotted them, upon
producing a certificate of their respective claims from the cnmmissioner of war.
The ninth section enacted " That any officer or soldier who hath
not been cashiered or suiierseded, and who hath served the term of
three years successively, shall have an absolhte and unconditional
title to his respective apportionment of the land appropriated as
aforesaid."
The tenth' section contained this proviso, cc Provided always, and
it is hereby enacted, that nio surveyor shall be permitted to receive'
any locati9n upon any warrant for-lands within the country reserved
for the officers and soldiers, until the apportionment and draft for the
same, as directed by the act entitled "cAn act to adjust and regulate
the pay -ana accounts of the officers and soldiers of the Virginia
line."On the 18th of December, 1782, a warrant wa issued to Robert
Porterfield, (the. complainant,) as the heir of Colonel Charles Porterfield, deceasdd, for 6000 acres of land; and on the 13th of June,
1783, a warrant was issued to Thomas Quarles for 2666- acres,
which warrant -was afterwards assigned to Porterfield, the complainant.
In October, 1783, an act was passed, entitled "An act for surveying the lands given by law to the officers and soldiers of continental
and state establishments," &c.
For the better locating and surveying the lands, given by law to

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

81

Porterfiel4 v. Clark.

the oficers and soldiers on state and continental establishments, -it
enacted that it should be lawful for the deputation of officers, con-'
sisting of Major-General Peter Muhlenberg and others, who are enumerated, to appoint superintendents on behalf of the respective lines,
or jointly, for the purpose of regulating the surveying of the lands
appropriated by law as bounties for the said officers and soldiers.
That the deputations should have power to appoint tWo principal
surveyor; that the holders df land-wanants for military bounties,
given by law as aforesaid, should, on or before the 15th of March
thereafter, deliver the same to the principal surveyors, &c.
The second section declared that priority of location should be by
lot, under the direction and management of the principal surveyors
and. superintendents. .That the warrants delivered to the principal
surveyors before the 10th of March, should be surveyed first, and
those subsequently delivered, in the order of priority.
The third section required the location and surveys to be made
under the direction of the superintendents.
The fourth -section directed where, and how, the lands were to
be surveyed. iTaose lying on the Cumberland and Tennessee were
to be surveyed first; and afterwards those on the north-west side
of the Ohio river, until the deficiency of all military bounties, in
1ands, should be fully and amply made up. " Whatever lands may
happen to be left," the act declares, " within the tract of country
reserved for the army, on this side the Ohio and Mississippi, shall
be saved, subject to the order and particular disposition of the legislature of this state." And the governor was required to furnish the
superintendents with such military aid as he-might judge "necessary
to carry the act into effect., The aid wan to be oidered from the
Xentucky country, and was not to exceed a hundred mei.
In the spring of 1784, the superintendents repaired to Keitucky.
They found the codntry below the Tennessee in possession of the
savages, who threatened resistance. The aid expected from Kentucky was not furnished. The attempt to enter and survey the
lands was, consequently, abortive. But the siiperintendents proceeded o determine the priority of locations by lot; and entries
were made on the books of the surveyors, to the extent of some two
or three hundred thousand acres.
Porterfield's entries were of the number. Thy were made under
the authority of the two warrants which have been already stated.
In-June, 1784, two surveys were made for Clark by the surveyor
VOL. H.-1

82

SUPREME COUR'T.
Porterfield v. Clark.

of Lincoln county, under the authority of the warrants already stated
as land-office Treasury warrants. One. of these surveys was for
36,962, acres, and the other for 37,000 acres.
In August, 1784, Porterfield made his entries.
Caveats were entered against the surveys of Clark, which prevented patents from being issued. These were eitered in the District Court of the then District of Kentucky,' by the, superintendents
of the -Virginia state line, and were not disposed of until after the
separation of Kentucky from Virginia.
In October, 1784, the legislature of Virginia interposed to prevent
the.military claimants from taking possession of the lands. The
preamble to the act stated, " that it had been represented to the pre.sent General Assembly thai the taking possession of, or surveying
the lands in the western territories of this. state, wh.ich have been
granted by law as bounties to the -officers and soldiers of the Virginia
line, will produce great disturbances ;"1 and the governor, with the
.advice of council, was authorized: to suspend, for such
time as he
may think the tranquillity of the government may require, the surveying or taking possession of those lands that lie on the north-west
side of the river Ohio or below the mduth of the river Tennessee,
aiid which have been reserved, &c.
On the 6th of January, 1785, Governor Henry accordingly issued
his proclamation to the effect authorized by this act.
In November, 1785, and January, 1786, three treaties were made
.with the Indians at Hopewell, by commissioners on the part of the
United States; the first,'in November,'.with the Cherokees, and the
-other two in the following January, with the Choctaws and Chickasaws. That with the Choctaws bears date on the 3d, and that 'with
the Chickasaws on the 10th of January, 1786. By the treaty with
the Cherokees the boundary was established as follows. Beginning
at the mouth of Duck river, on the Tennessee; thence running northeast to the ridge-dividing the waters running into Cumberland from
those running into the Tennessee; thence eastwardly along the said
ridge to a north-east line to be run which shall strike the river Cumberland forty miles above Nashville; thence along the said line to
the river; thence up the said river to the ford where the Kentucky
road crosses the river, thence to Campbell's line, near Cumberland
gap, &c., &c., &c. The treaty with the Chickasaws established the
following boundary: Beginning on the ridge that divides the waters
running into the Cumberland from those rnnming into the Tennessee,

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

83

Porterfield- v. -Clark.

at a point in a line to be run north-east'which shall strike the Tennessee at the mouth of Duck river; then6e running westerly along
thd said'ridge till it shall strike the Ohio; t ence down the southern
bank thereof to the Mississippi; thence down the same to the.Choctaw line of Natchez district; thence, along the said line, or the line
of the district, eastwafdly, as. far, as the'Chickasaws. claimed, and
lived, and -hunted on, the twenty-.ninth of November,. one thousand
sevn hundred and eighty-twQ..."
The fourth ixticle of the treaty. with the Chickasaws was as follows:. ccIf any citizen of the United States, or other person, not
being an Indian, shall attempt to settle on any of the lands hereby
allotted to the Chickasaws to lve'and hunt on, such persons shall
forfeit the prote.tion of the Uiited States of Ainerica; and the
Chickasaws may punish.him or not, as.they please."
In 1793, ihe cav'eat which had been filed aggainst Clark by the
superintendents of the Virginia state line, was dismissed, in Kentucky, pursuant to the opinion of the Court of Appeals of Virginia,
given in 1791.
In 1794, the General Assembly'of Kentucky passed an act requiring the register of the land-office to 'receive, and issue 'rants on, all
certificates 6f survey which were in the register's office of Virginia at
the time when the separation took place, -and pn which grants had
not issued.
On the 15th of September, 1795, grants were issued by Kentucky
to Clark for the 73,962 acres.
In 1809, the legislature of K~ntucky passed an act, the second
section of -which declares, " That n 6 action at law, bill in equity,
or other process, shall be commenced or sued out by any person or
persoh.s claiming under, or by, an adverse interfering entry, survey,
or patent, whereby to' recover the title or possession of such land
from him or her who shall hereafter settle onqland to which he or
she shall, at the time of *such settlement made, have a con-mected'
title in law or equity, deducible of record from the commonwealth;
and when such settler shall have acquired such title or claim after
the time of settlement made, the limitation shall begin to run only
from the time of acquiring such title or claim,,but within seven years
-next after such settlement made, &c.
In October, 1818, a treaty was made between -the United Stat~s
and the Chickasaws, by which the Chickasaws ceded to the United.
States all the land between the Tennessee; Ohio, ana Mississippi.

SUPREME COUIT.
Porterfield v. Clark.

rivers and a line therein described on the south, which cession
included the lands in controversy.
On the 22d of December, 1818, the legislature of Kentucky pasted
an act prohibiting any entry or survey from being made icon any
portion ofthe land lying within tile late Chickasaw Indian boundary."
In July, 1819, William Clark, the assignee of George Rogers
Clark, the pateritee, took lossession of the land and placed tenants
upon it.
On the 14th February, 1820; the legislature of Kentucky passed
an act providing for the*appointment of a superintendent to survey
the lands west of the Tenessee river.
On the 26th of December, 1820, the military surveyor was permittd -to survey the entries that had been made prior to the year
1792, when Kentucky became an independent state.. Porterfield's
surveys were commenced and continued froni time to time until
1824 and 1826. Five surveys were made at different times during
11 s period, and five patents were issued in donformity with them,
which bear date in the last-mentioned years. ' In May, 1824, Porterfield took possession, by hL tenants, of several of the tracts patented
to him, and leased them for five years. "
In Octoberj 1825, these tenants were turned out of possession by
writs of forcible entry and.detainer.
Some con.veyances and legal proceedings occurred, during the
period of which wd have spoken; but, as they have no bearing upon
the questions before th couft in the present case, they have not been
mentioned in the statement.
In July; 1836, Porterfield filed his bill in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of Kentucky, sitting as a court of equity,
which, together with two amended bills and a bill of revivor, after
having brought into court various parfies who were supposed to have
an interest in the matter, preshnted the following'dlaim, charges, and
prayer.
The bill, after settingforth the title of the complainant,
as founded
.upon the patents of 1824, 1825, and 1826, and alleging that the
possession of the country by the Indians was the cause of the delay
.between the entries and-sirveys, charged that the defendant., Clark,
had no .right to make an entry or location on any lands west-of the
,Tennessee river, or on te lands-included between the rivers Ohio,
Tennessee and Mississippi, and the North Carolina line,'on .land-oice
Treasury-warrant certificates ; that, 1y law, he, Clark, was expressly

JANUARY-TERM, 1844.

85

Porterfield v. Clar'k.

prohibited- from making the said -entry or location on land within the
country and lHifiits of the Cherokee Indians, or the lands reserved by
the Virginia Assembly for any particular nation or tribe of indians,
or in that tract of country reserved by resolution of the Gefieral
Assembly of the state of Virginia for the benefit of the troops serving
in the then existing war.between Great Britain and .the United States
of America. The bill avers that the entry of George Rogers Claik
was made on lahds reserved by resolution of the Assembly of Virginia for the troops then in the serviCe of the United States; that it
was made on lands reserved by law for the Indian tribes, and upon
lands within the country and limits of the Cherokee Indians, The
bill further charges that the said warrants were, by law, prohibitpd
from being located on'any lants6 that were not waste and unappropriated; that, at the time of the-entries, the Indian title to said lands
west of the Tennessee river and' included within the, rivers Ohio,
Mississippi, Tennessee, and the North Carolina boundary-line, was
not- extinguished.. The bill further charges that the entry of Clark
is not precise and special, but ague, uncertain, and void; because
it called to begin on the Ohio at -the mouth of the Tennessee river,
running down the Ohio, bounded'by tliedrowned lands of said river
and waters of the Missiisippi for the qantity of 74,962 acres in one
or more, surveys; and moreover that -the person who in fact made
such survey was not. an authorized and legally appointed .surveyor.
It then charges -that the titles of Clark, and all who claim under him,
are void, and prays- for a decree compelling them to 'release their
craims to the complainant, and account to him for the rents and profits
of the land
A supplemental bill and answer were -afterwards filed, but the
matters therein stated are not before the courtin the consideratiei of
this case-; the charges made in the bill being denied in'the answer,
and no proof being offered to sustain them.
The "defendants all answered; but as- they all rely on the samematters of defence,. it is not material to notice any of the answers
but that of William Clark. He contests, throughout,'the right of
Porteirld to relief; denies that any part of the land in contest was
possessed by Porterfield at the time of filing hiis bill; on the c6ntrary,
he alleges, that by his ten*ants,-h'e had-for more than §even years nextbefore the filing of the bill, been in fall and exclusive possession.of
all the land in contest, claiming and holding the same under the title
derived from George Rogers Clark, .and he therefore pleads and
H

SUPREME COURT.
Porterfield v. Clark.

relies upon his possession and the statute of Kentucky, limiting the
time of bringing suits in such cases to seven years, in bar of the relief
sought by Porterfield. He insists that at the date of Clark's entries,
there was no law prohibiting tle location of Treasury warrants below
the Tennessee river, and that the entries were rnde on land subject
to appropriation, and in conformity with law;,that they possess the
certainty and precision of valid.entries, and were afterwards legally
surveyed in conformity with "law,upon vhich surveys patents finally
issued according tQ law; and thdt his title is not only elder in date,
but superior in law and equity to that of Porterfield.
Amongst the other matters given in evidence in this case, .were
copies of some original papers found in thd State Paper Office, in London, relating toth&boundary-lines adopted atvarioustinmesbetween the
white people'and the Indians, the substance of which is as follows:
1. Deed (or treaty) with the Cherokees, dated on the 13th of
June,. 1767, which recited that a previous treaty had 'been made
on the 20th of October, 1765, directing the line to be run from where
the South Carolina line terminated, a north course into the mountains,
whence a straight line should run to the lead mines of Colonel Chiswell, (on the Great Kenhawa river,) and that the commissioners had
found themselves unable to run- the line further than the top of a
mountain called Tryon mountain, on the head waters of Pacolet
creek and White Oak creek, therefore the present treaty established
the following :-Running from the tdp of Tryon mountain aforesaid,
beginning at the marked trees' thereon, by a direct line to Chiswell's
mines in Virginia.
2. 'Treaty between John Stuart, on behalf of his majesty, the
king of England, and the upper and lower Cherokee nations, coneluded at Hard Labor, on the 13th October, 1768, establishing the
following boundary :-From a place called Towahihie, on the northem bank of Savannah river, a north fifty degrees east course in a
straight line to a place .called Demesses Comer, or Yell6w Water;
ftom Demesses Comer or Yellow Water, a north fifty degrees east
course, in a straight line to the southern bank of Reedy river, at a
place called Waughoe,.or Elm 'Tree, where the line behind- South
Carolin'a terminates; from a place called Waughoe, or Elm Tree;
on 'the southerm bank of Reedy river, a north course in d straight
line to a mountain- called Tryon mountain, where the great ridge of
mountains becomes impervious; from Tryon mountain, in a straight
line to Chiswell's 'mine, on the. eastern bank of the Great Conho-

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

87

Porterfield v. Clark.'

-

way (Kenhawa) river, about a N. by E. course; and from Chiswells
mine,' on the eastern bank of the Great Conhoway; in a straight line,
about a north course, to the confluence of the Great Conhoway with
the Ohio.
3. Treaty with the Six Nations, concluded at Fort Stanwixi on
the 5th of November, 1768, in which the sachems and chiefs assert
the ownership of, and by which they sod"to King George III., all
the land; bounded by the following line :- Beginning at the mouth
of the Cherokee, or Hogohege (Tennessee) river, where it empties in
the river Ohio, and running from thence upwards along the south
side of the said river Ohio; to Kittanning, which is above Fort Pitt;
from thence by a direct line to the nearest fork of the west branch of
the Susquehanna, &c., &c., &c., and extended eastward from every
part of the said line, &c.j &c.
4. Instructions from Lord Botetourt to Col. Lewis and Dr.
Walker, dated Williamsburg, Dec. 20th, 1768; directing them to
proceed to Mr. Stuart, superintendent of the southem district, and
represent to him that the line frdm Chiswell's mine to the mouth of
thp Great Kenhaway, contracts the limits of the colony too much,
and saying that " if Virginia had been consulted upon this line, there
would have been an opportunity of showing that the- Cherokees
had no just title to" the lands between the supposed line and the'
mouth of the Cherokee river, which in fact were claimed, and
have been sold to his majesty, by the northern nations at the late
treaty at Fort Stanwx."
5. Report of Lewis and Walker, saying that They had met with
a portion of the Cherokee- chiefs, who would use their influence to
obtain a new boundary.
6. A memorial, from the House of Burgesses of Virginia to the
governor, praying that a new boundary-line may be adopted, and suggesting one from the western termination of the XNorth Carolina line,
in a due west direction to the river Ohio. This memorial was sent
to England by the governor, on the 18th December, 1769.
7. An address from the House of Burgesses to the governor, and
his answer upon the same subject.
8. Resolition of the House of Burgesses, 16th Jun'e, 1770, requesting that a treaty be made with the Cherokees for the lands lying
within a line to be run from the place where the North Carolina line.
terminates, in a due western direction, till it intersects Holstein river,
and from thence to the mouth-of the Great Kanhawa.

88

SUPREME COURT.
Porterfield'v. Clark.

9. Letter. from Lord Hillsborough 'to Lord Botetourt, dated at
White Hall, State Paper Office, October 3, 1770, saying, I am convinced, from the fullest considpration, that the extension of the
bouridary-line, as proposed by the. address of the House of Burgesses in December last, would never have been consented to by
the Cherokees.
10. Treaty with the Cherokees, made at Lochaber, in the province
of South Carolina, on the 18th October, 1770, adopting as a boundary
a line, leginning where the boundary-line between the province of
.North Carolina and the Cherokee hunting-grounds terminates, and
Srunnng thence in a. west course to a point six miles east of Long
Island, in Holstein's river, 'nd thence in a
course to the conIluence of 'the Great Conhaway and Ohio rivers.
11. Letter from Lord Dunmore to the Earl of Hillsborough, dated
it Williamsburg, March,. 1772, saying that the boundary-line between
the colony nd the hunting-grounds of ihe Cherokee Indians had
been run by Mr. Donelson and others 11t that it had not been run
exactly according to instructions, taking in a larger tract of country
than by those instructions they had permission to include; that the
commissioners had continued, from.-the point on Holstein river,
where it is intersected by the division. line of Virginia and North
Carolina, down that river a small, distance, to a place from whence
they had an easier access than anywhere else to be found, to the
head of Louisa (or Kentucky) river.
There were also given in evidence, sundry papers from the state
department, verified, as copies, by the certificate of Fletcher Webster, Eq., acting secretary of state, -the substance of which was as
follows.1. A protection fbr the Great Warrior of Chote, dated on the 13th
of May, 1771, at.Toguch, and-signed by Alexander Cameron, deputy
superintendent. It' states,. that he 'intenas to hunt from thence to
Long Island hnd thereabouts, -until the arrival of the Virginia
commissioners, who, are appointed 'by that government to run the
boundary:line; and -xpresses a hope, that if he should meet with
any hunting-parties, they would remove from the lands which were
reserved for the Cherokees.
2. A talk from Alexander Cameron, dated at Lochaber, 5th February, 1772, saying to the Indians that he had informed the governor
of Virginia that the course of the boundary-line to where they left it
on the Cedar river was approved by-all the chiefs, and that he had

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

89

Porte.rfield v. Clark.

reminded Colonel Donelson of his promise of sending a few presents
to the' LongIsland, upon Holston, in the spring;
3. A letter from John Sfuart to Ouconestotah, great war-chief of
the.Cherokee nation, saying that lie sent him therewith a copy of the
boundary agreed upon, and that persons -were appointed to mark it
immediately.
4. A treaty of cession to his majesty by the Creeks and Cherokee
Indians, of certain lands to the south, dated on the 1st of June, 17713,
at Augusta; and a talk to' the Cherokees 'dated at Augusta,, on the
8d of-June, 1773, reminding them that in-1771 they had marked a
line, dividing their hunting-grounds from what they gave up to his
majesty in'the province of Virginia, and which fell in upon the head
or source of Louisa (now Kentucky) river, and down the, stream
'thereof to its confluence'with the Ohio, and relinquished all claims
or pretensions to. any laids to'the north-eastward of said line,; and
informing them that -his majesty had erected a new province whose
boundaries were---:beginning on the south side of the river Ohio,
opposite the mouth of Sciota, thence, southerly, through- the pass in
the Anasiota mountains, to .the south side of the said mountains;
thence along the south side of the said mountains, north-eastwardly
to the fork of the Great Kenhawa, made by the junction of Greenbriar river and the New river; thence along the Greenbriar river,
on the easterly side of the same, unto the head or termination of
its north-easterly branch thereof; thence easterly to the Alleghany
mountains; thence by various courses to the southern and western
bQundary-line of Pennsylvania, and a.offg the western boundary-line
until it shall strike the Ohio river, .and thence down the said river
Ohio to the place of beginning.
5. Talk from Lord Dunmore to the Little Carpenter and chiefs of
the Cherokee nations of Indians, dated at Williamsburg, on the 23d
day, of March, 1775, warning them not to grant land to Henderson
or'any other white people.
6. -A letter from William Preston to the chiefs of the Cherok~e
nation, dated at Fincastle county, on the 12th of April, 1775, saying
,that he.was commatided by Lord Dunmore to send the letter by a
special messenger, Who was'to read it to the council.- The letter*
lemonstrates against the sale which they had lately made of that
great tract of land on the Ohio, without the advice or consent of the
king, and says that, by various treaties, the land had been the property of the king for upwards of thirty years.
- H2
VOL. 1-12

90

SUPREME COURT.
Porterfield v. Clark.

7. A letter from Patrick Henry, junior, to Oconostotah, dated, on
the 3d of March, 1777, assuring, the Cherokees of the protection of
Virginia, and expressing an expectation that he, and his warriors
ald head men, willnot fail to mee.t 'Colonel Christian, Colonel Preston, and Colonel Shelby, at the fort, near the. Great Island, to confirm
the peace.
8. Articles of peace' made at Fort Henry, near the Great Island,
on ftolston's iiver, on the 20th July, 1777, between the commissionersfrom the commonwcalth of Virginia, of the one part, and the chith
•of hat part of the Cherokee nation called the Overhill Indians, of
the other part.
The fifth article recites that, as many-white people have settled on
lands below the boundary between Virginia and the Cherokeesy
commoily called Donelson?s line, it is necessary to fix and extend a
new boundary and purchase the lands within it. The new line
begins at the lower comer of Donelson's line on the north side of
the river Holston, and runs down that rivei according to the mean-.
ders thereof and bei}ding thereon, including the Great Island, to the
mouth of Claud's creek, being the second creek below the warrior's
ford at the. mouth of Carter's valley; thence running a straight line
to a high point on Cumberland mountain, betiveen three and five
miles below or westward of the great gap which leads to the settlement of the Kentucky. This last-mentioned line is to be considered
,as the boundary'between Virginia and the Cherokees.
9. A letter from Patrick Henry, dated at Williamsburg, on the
15th November, i777, to Oucconastotah, saying that his heart and the.
hearts of all the Virginians are still good towardg the Cherokees.
10. A letter fom Patrick Henry to. the Cherokees, 'sayLg that he
is informed, that the line which was run was not convdnient to the
Cherokees; that -they wanted it to come higher up the river Holston, and that he has given orders to have it altered a few miles, to
take in the fording-place into their land.
There was also gi'en in evidence, fthe deposition of- Peter Force,
an inhabitant of the city of Washington, who had been for many
years engaged in collecting authentic. papers connected with the
history of the United States, from the settlement of the stveral colonies, (including Virginia,) t1a the adoption of the federal constitution,
under a-contract 'with the secretary of :ate, made by-authority of an
act of Congress. Mr. Force' gave it is his opinion, after an examination of. books; maps, treaties, and'bther authentic papers, that the

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

91

Porterfield v. Clar-k.

country between the Tennessee, Ohio'and Mississippi rivers, and
the boundary line between what is now the state of Kentucky and.
Tennessee, belonged to the Cherokees previous to.the year 1779;
that all the maps which he -had -found designated the' Cherp ke."
country as .being north of the Chickasaws, extending westward -to
the Mississippi add northward to the Ohio; and that id no-inscance
had he found the lands above described to be marked upon any
map as belonging to any other tribe of Indians than the Cherokeds.
Mr. Force annexed to his deposition copies of sundry.papers relating
to a treaty made in 1730, between the Lords Commissioners for trade,
and plantations, and the Cherokees,-together with the treaty itself,.
which was executed in Fngland by some of the chiefs who. had
gone there.
Exceptions were filed to the deposition of Peter Force, but they
were overruled, and at a subsequent stage of the cause these excep-.
tions were withdrawn.
On the 13th of November, 1841, afer hearing an argument i1r
three successive days, the Circuit Court dismissed the bill with costs,,
and the complainant appealed to this court.
Before the cause was argued, the following paper Wag filed
On the question, -whether t1e lands in controversy were 'regarded.
as Chickasaw or Cherokee lands, the counsel for the appelants hope
they will be at liberty to refer to an original official letter from Govenor Thomas Jefferson to Gen. Clark, dated the 29th January, '
1780, and now on the files of the Chancery Court at Richmond, in
a suit there dependiig between the administrator of Gen. George
Rogers Clark and the commonwealth, for -the settlement of their accounts. This letter is wholly upon the subject of the public service,
and, amongst other' things, upon the subject of erecting a fort near
the mouth of the Ohio. It contains the following passages:"cFrom the best information I have, I take for granted, that our
line will 'pass below the mouth of Ohio. Our 'purchbases of the
Cherokees hitherto, have not extended southward or westward cf the
Tanissee. Of course the little tract of country between the Mississippi, Ohio, Tanissee, and Carolina line, on which your fort will b6,
is still
to be purchased from them, before you can begin your work.
to effect this, I have written to Major Martin, our Cherokee agent,
of which letter I enclose you a copy."-(This extract is from the
first page of the letter.)
cc I must also refer to.you, whether it will be best to build the fo

"92

SUPREM'

COURT.

-Porterfield v. C.lark,

at the mouth of Ohio, before you beg&n your c~apaign, or after
you shall have ended it. Perhaps, indeed, the delays 6f obtaining
leave from the Cherokees, or of making purchase from them, may
oblige you to postpone it fill the fill."--:(This extract is from the
gixth page of the letter.)
It is proper to state, that this letter mentions the Chickasaws as
a hostile tribe.-:See the letter, bottom of p. 4 and top of'p. 5.
Morehead and Ckman ohnson,'.for the appellants and complain,ants below,
, for the'defendants.
C'yit
[The notes of Mr. .Morehead's argument, as taken by the reporter,
not being within-his control when this part of the'volume was put
to press, the argument is necessarily and reluctantly omitted.]
Crittenden, for defendant, stated the nature of the two confiicting
titlesi and then referred to the claim of Porterfield as asserting the.
superiority of his title, both at law and. in equity. If these allegations are true, then the cdmplainant tias the legl title and' cannot
sue in equity. Ilis remedy at. law is complete, and this court has
no jurisdiction. If the elder patent of Clark be a nullity and -void
on its face, it would be no bar to an action' of ejectm'ent and the
recovery 'of the land. 6 Peters, 666.
But if the original evidence of title ei.'bited- by the parties, be
referred to as the -proper test of the nature of, the case, and of the
jurisdiction of a court of equity, then it will appear that the present
is nothing more than thre orddiary case of ajunior patentee, seeking,
in the familiar ancl appropriate mode of- a bill in equity, to coerce a
surrender and conveyance of the.legal title of an' elder'patentee.
In th view of the'case he argued,
1. That-the c6mplainant. had no such claim as could prevail in
a court of equity against the elder Ipgal title of the defindbnt.
2. That if he had shown such right, then that the defendant'S tit
was prior in. time and better in"equity..
3. That however perfect the complainant's title, and however
inip~rfect the defendant's; .the latter is protected and the former
barred by the statute of' seven years' limitation.
, 1. Porterfield asserts a. military claim under the reservations made
in the Virginia acts of 1779, (1 Litt. 406,) and 1781, (1 Litt. 432,)
and in virtue of the entries made on-the military warmants, together

JANUARY TERM. 1844.
Porterd'eld v. Clark.
-withthe patents issued in 1825 and 1826 under an act of the Kentucky legislature of 1820. From these sources the complainant
derives title, if any he has, and insists, .
1. That the acts of the.Virginia legislature operate as a legislative
grant of the legal title to the troops alluded to in them, and that his
locations were required only to discriminate, as between him and his
fellow-soldiers, his potion.
2. That his entries, -if sqch were necessary as original .appropriations, are valid and go6d under the. said act of 1779.
The act of 1779 required that entries should be made so specially
as to enable subsequent locators to locate the adjacent residuumwith
safety. To do this and to make a valid entry, it must .so describe
the land. as to identify it by notorious objects. Decisions without
number might be cited to establish this as the settled rule of law in
such cases. Speed- v. Lewis, Hardin, "477; Johnson v. Pannel's
heirs, 2 Wheat. 206.
Tested by this rule, the entry of the complainant cannot be maintained. There is no evidence, nor attexpt to prove the identity or
notoriety of the objects on which these entries depend; and this fatal
defect is obvious.
Are the acts of Virginia legislative grants? The acts of 1779 and
1781 are acts 6f reservation, not of grant. They reserved districts
of country from other appropriation, that they might therewith satisfy
the military claimants. This is manifestly the character of the acts
themselves, and though ii other, and subsequent acts, words ahd
expressions may be found that would give colour to the argument
that the lands had been c given," ,,appropriated," &c.,-yet these
must be understood with a reference to the principal acts, which had
not given, but reserved them c to be given or granted," as, might
thereafter be directed, In confirmatioli of this, the -11th section of
the act of May, 1782, indicates that the portion or bounty-land of
each military claimant was thereafter to be granted to him by patent
Revised Code, 395.
But if,
by these acts, Virginia had divested herself and granted
the title, to Whom did she grant the land? Certainly not to Porterfield, so as to enable him, individually, to maintain an action at law
or suit in equity. He would, almost have as good a right to sue in
the character of a citizen of the commonwealth, and in virtue of the
right which, as such, he had.
If these acts can, in any sense, be regarded as a grant, out of

94

SUPREME COURT.
Porterfileld v. Clark.

which the complainant's title was to spring, such title could only
vest in him to any specific parcel, when the legal means for its
investiture had been performed. Was that to be. done-by entry?
If so, that entry should be so special as at least to identify, if not to
make notorious, the land intended to be selected. The common
rule requires notoriety, but if we dispense with that, identity is indispensable. This entry does not identify the land. If the entry is
neither required by law, or being required, is inoperative for want
of specialty, it confers. no right, either legal or equitable. What,
then, has the complainant done to make this particular land his property? It is not by survey; for, admitting that would have been a
ufficient appropriation undei the laws of Virginia, no such survey
was made. The only survey made was in 1824-5, long after the
date of Clark's patent and undir a law of Kentucky,- which authorized surveys to be made upon entries only, and required those surveys to conform to the ehtry. According to that law, the survey
was not recognised as an act of appropriation,, but only as a means.
of perfecting and-carrying into grant such entries as were valid by
their special description of the land. So that, in any way in which
it can be viewed, the right of the complainant must resolve itself
into the validity and specialty of his entry.
If it were admitted that a survey was a sufficient appropriation,
the survey must contain such a description as would identify the
land by the corresponding objects proved to have existed on the
land. Up to the time, therefore, of the separation of Kentucky, the
complainant had no title derivable from any location or survey; and
he must rest for any such title upon the acts of the Virginia Assembly alone. They.gave him no individual right to the specific land
in question; they gave him no right in it. If any, it must be what
the complainant contends it is, viz., a perfect legal title. And if so,
his bill-in chancery cannot be maintained. That these acts granted
no such right per se, is necessarily implied in the decisions of the
Kentucky Court of Appeals in the cases of Jasper, &c. v. Quarles,
Hardin, 464, and McIlhenney's heirs v. Biggerstaff, 3 Litt. 155.
For if such rights had been granted, neither Jasper nor. Biggerstaff
could have succeeded in equity against the title granted before the
claims originated.
Upon general principles, courts of chancery will not, except in
favour of an equity clearly made out, disturb the holder of the legal
title, however, or by whatever means, obtained; and this is the

JANUA-RY

TE-RM

1844.

95

Porterfield v. Ciark

settled doctrine of the courts in Kentucky- in referenceJo caseslike
the present, of conflicting land claims. Hardin's Reports, 103, 112,
469; 2 Bibb, 168; Ward, &c. v. Lee, lBibb, 33, 22"9; Garnet v.
Jenkins, 8 Peters, 75.
The Virginia acts in question bear no resemblance' to the acts
referred to in the case of Green's heirs, 2 Wheat. 196;'here are no
words of -present donation or grant, no individual appropriation.
These acts were not so understood by either Virginia or Kentucky,
as is shown by their compact, 1 Litt. Laws of Kentucky, p. 1-9, sect.
10, and by the subsequent acts of Kentucky in disposing of those
lands as her own, and by the act for surveying the military cla is.
I1 1779, Virginia only reserved these lands "until 'her farther
order." The Kentucky decision in Rollins v. Clark, 8"i ana, 19,
,expressli repudiates the idea of a legislative grant, and the cases of
Bledsoe's heirs v. Wells, 4 Bibb, 329, and Mc]lhenney's heirs v.
Biggerstafl 3 Litt. 161, do so by necessary implication. In the
case of Wilcox v. Jackson, 14 Peters, 516, it is said that, where
lands are granted by act of Congress, it must be done cby words of
present grant." Virginia thought that something more would be
necessary, because she -included, these military warrants within the
act opening a land-office, the I1th section of.which (Rev. Code, 395,
act of Y7l82) requires the-officers to receive paper-money for fees for
issuing grants on military warrants. It is brought in, incidentally, it
is true, but nevertheless explains the meaning of prior laws.
Having thus examined the title of Porterfield, and the'time when
it 'ccrued, let us look at the second head of the argument.
. That Clark's title-is prior in time and better in equity. His
fu il amended 'entry was made on the 26th October, 1780, in virtue
c Virginia Treasury warrants; was surveyed, as to 36,962 acres,
on the 7th June, 1784, and patented under the Kenthcky act of
1794, on the 15th of September, 1795. The entry calls to "cbegin
on the Ohio river, at the mouth of the Tennessee," &c. In its terms,
it contains all the precision and certainty required by the act of 1179,
and is a good and valid entry. It includes the land in controversy,
as does also the survey and patent founded upon it. The only
grounds on which the claim is attempted to be impeached are two,
1. That it is within the military reserve.
2. That it is within the country and limits of the Cherokees.
As to the first, it is sufficient to say that the entry of Clark was
made prior to the military reservation; and the acts of reservation
-

96

SUPREME, COURT.
Porterfield v. Clark.

could never have been intended to deprive or affect. the existing
lawful rights of griorl6cations; (see case of Grundy, 9 Wheat. 203;)
whatever may have been the title transferred by these acts in the
unappropriated lands of the reserved district. And all this; as well
as the lawfulness and validity of Clark's entry was solemnly adjudged
by the Virginia Court-of Appeals, as early as the year 1793, in the'
case of Marshall, &q., superintendents of the Virginia State Line v.
George Rogers Clark, Hughes' Reports, 39.
That decipion settled every question as to the lawfulness and
validity-.of the entry in question, except only whether it was within
the cc Cherokee country or limits.;" and this court ascribed such
effect to that decision in the case, of. Clark's heirs v.- Smith, 13
Peters, i95.
Supposing.Clark's entry to be within the Cherokee country, his
entry and. survey might- have been void, but his patent would not.
It was granted- "inobedience to the .express provisions of the Kentucky act of 1794, and afle&the'cavemt of the superintendents to prevent, it had been dismissed, , 8 Dana, 15. In that case, the Court
of Appeals of Kentucky say that, upon the fact suppo.sed, the patent
would not be void; it would c6nfer the legal title on the patentee.
The case'of Bledsoe's devisees v. Wells, 4 Bibb, 329, is in principle
to the same effect. Such patents convey the legal title, and the
party in possession of it, by whatever means acquired, can only be
disturbed by one holding a clear equity. Rucker v. Howard, 2 Bibb,
165.; Hardin, 103, 112; Ward, &c. v. Lee, I Bibb, 33, 229; Hardin, 15, 105, 469; 8 Peters, 75.
But was Clark's entry within the "cCherokee country and limits ?"
It is incumbent upon the complainant to -prove that it was, and he
has not done it, The Cherokee settlements were far remote on the
headwaters of the Tennessee.
The.Iatchez and Chickasaw tribes lived directly west of them,
and between them and the Mississippi and much nearer the mouth
of the Tennessee river.
The ancient maps produced are no evidence, and are admissible
by no rule of law that I know of." If .they were admissible1 they
prove nothing but the ignorance of their authors, and destroy each
'other by their contradic'toriness; and if they do not thus destroy each
other, they do not show that the Cherokees claimed or owned the
lands below the mouth of the Tennessee river
The testhhony of Mr. Force and the royal authentication of

JANUARY TERM,- 1844.

97

Porterfield v. 'Clark.

those maps may lirove that they are true copies, but they cannot
convert fables into facts, or prove that the originals were cQrrect.
It is insisted upon by the other "side, that this was the Cherokee
country alluded to and intended by the legislature, because, as they
attempt to show, all the other lands of the Cherokees within the
limits of Virginia had been before ceded to her. If the facts justified
such a conclusion, then, as all these cessions were hnatters of treaty
dihd history, the court should have taken judicial notice of them and
decided differently the case in Hughes, 39. Exclusive of such lawful grounds of judgment, there is no more evidence 'n this,. than .in
that case, that the country in question-belonged to the 'Cherokees.
There 'is nothing more excusable than ignorance, even in the
Virginia legislature, of the "limits of the Cherokee country :". the'
limits. of 'roving bands of savages who had no occupancy but of their
huts, aid were*sparingly. dotted about in that great western region.
No treaty made with the Indians -ever did recognise the lands in
question as' Cherokee lands. Such a construction of any of the
treaties inade with those Indians, would have entitled the superintendents to a judgment in the case in Hughes, 39. No treaty prior
to 1779, did more than settle their eastern 'boundary by a line of
division between them and the whites.
The first agreement or settlement of their western boundary was
in 1785, by the treaty of Holewell, which*was by a line from the
Cumberland to the Tennessee river, forty miles above Nashville,
leaving out and at a great distance the lands in question.
And by a treaty with the Chicasaws in',1786, these lands were
recognised as theirs,.or "cassigned to theni for their hunting rounds.'?
But the great fact from which the complainait draws, all his arguments, namely, that the Cherokees had not) in 1779, any other lands
but those below the mouth of, t Tennesseef-is hot true. From
their western line, striking the Cumberland forty miles above'Nashville, they did own the lands on that river, and between that and the
line dividing North Carolina frQm Virginia, and they owned lands
between that river and the Cumberland mountains; all of which
were finally purchased, from them by the treaty of Tellico, in 1805,
and becoming thereby the property of the state of Kentucky, were
disposed of by her.. See the treaties of 1791, 1798,. and 1805,"
recognising and purchasing these lands as Cherokee lands, in vol. of
Indian treaties, 34, 80, 121; -and Statute Law of Kentucky, 2 vol.
page 921, 1009.
VoL. . -13
I
-

SUPREME' COURT.
Porterfield v. Clark.

To pronounce this to be Cherokee land upon the construction of
any treaty, or .upon historical evidence, would be to contradict the
judicialdecisionsofVirgiiia and Kentucky. Hughes, 39; 8 Dana, 15.
The deposition of General Jackson contributes strongly to prove that
it Was not Cherokee land;, and a further proof that it was not is found
in the recitals of the deed from the Cherokees to Henderson and
Company, in which they declare -the Tennessee river to be their
boundary, and claim nothing below or westward of its mouth.
If this was not Cherokee country, the basis fails of ill the argu.
metits designed to establish the nullify of Clark's patent.
But suppose it was Cherokee country, is Clark's patent therefore
void ?
The distinction in the Kentucky courts is this: If no cause of invalidity appear on the face of the patent, it is conclusive at law, and
no evidence of any extrinsic fact is admissible to invalidate it.
Bledsoe's heirs v. Wells, 4 Bibb, 329 ; 4 Monroe, 51 ; 5 Monroe,
213; 1 Munf. 134; but that such evidence ig admissible when the
statute which forbids the appropriation declares, also, that the patent
shall be void,
3. However perfect the complainant's title, and imperfect the defendant's, the latter is protected and the former barred by the statute
of seven years' limitation.
It has been -shown that the patent is not void upon its face, that
it was sanctioned by the Kentucky act of 1794, and that it has been
recognised by judicial decisions in 8 Dana, 15, and 13 Peters, 195.
That this is, sufficient to admit the operation of the statute, was
decided in 2 Marshall, 387, Skiles's heirs v. King's heirs.
The statute requires-that he should have a "connected title in law
or equity, deducible of record from the commonwealth."
The
original defendants are connected by regular derivation of title, with
the, original title of Clark, and his is deduced from the commonwealth.by.all the appointed evidences of title, viz.: an entry, survey,
and patent, all of record. The case is thus brought as to title, as
well as possession -and settlement, within the plain meaning of the
statute. See in addition to the authority just cited, White v. Bates,
7 J.. J. Marshall, 542; Gaines, &c. v. Buford, 1 Dana, 481 ; and
6 J. J; Marshall, 452. According to the decision of the court in
Skiles's heirs, 2 Marshal l, 387, the statute was intended to help and
protect cinvalid titles," to protect settlers under patents which in
fact passed no title either in law or equity, being for land grapted

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

99

Porterfield v. Clark.

before the origin of the settlers' claim; that the words qf the statute,
c a connected title in law or equity, deducible of record from thecommonwealth," ccdoes and must mean such title when tested by its'
own face, and not tried by the title of others." The test is, would
it be good against the commonwealth, cc supposing no other to exist
on the ground."
Tried by these rules, can there be a doubt that the claim of the
defendants is within the protection of the statute?
Biit all this is attempted to be evaded upon the ground that the
claim was within the Cherokee country, and therefore void. The
fact of its being within the Cherokee limits has been already noticed;
and the consequence does not follow, that, if so, it is void and beyond
the reach of the statute. Bledsoe's devisees v. Wells, 4 Bibb,!329;
Rollins v. Clark, 8 Dana, 15; Ray r. Baker's heirs, 1 Ben Monroe,
364; Gray 3"Gray, 2 Ben Monroe, 200; Jennings v. Whitaker,
4 Monroe, 51; Pearson v. Baker, 4 Dana, 322; Cain v. Flynn,
4 Dana, 501; Finley v. Williams, 9 Cranch, 164; Boulden and
wife v. Massie, 7 Wheat. 122; Stringer v. Lessee of Young, 3 Peters,
337; Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Peters, 436.
If this party is to be deprived of the benefit of the statute, because
an adversary- claimant can show that his title originated in a forbidden and unlawful entry, or other act of appropriation, it must equally
apply to all settlers under junior titles, and a claimant, showing his
elder' and better appropriation, annuls the junior title and'sweeps
away with it the statute of limitations. Because, as all our laws
confirmed the holders of warrants or certificates, &c., to waste and
unappropriated lands, they violated the law in locating lands that
were appropriated, and their entries, gurveys, and patents must therefore be void. Why not apply the same reasoning to surveys and
p'atents founded on entries void for uncertainty and vagueness on
their face? The statutes require and command that 'they shall be
special and certain in their description.
If this reasoning' prevails, the statute of limitations is in -effect
repealed, or left in existence in reference alone to cases which do
not require its assistance.
Chauzna Johnson, for appellants, examined the three following
points:
1. Whether, upon the merits, the plaintiff or defendants have-the
better right.

100:

SUPREME COURT.
Porterfield v. Clark.

2. Whether the case is proper for the jurisdiction of a court of.
equity.
3. Whether the plaintiff's claim is barred by the statute of limitations.
1. He drew a distinction between Treasury warrants and military
warrants, as resting upon different grounds, although the law must
gver'the interpretation of both - but the military warranfs are of a.
higher order. The title of the complainant is perfect, unless it be
overruled by an elder or better one., In examining Clark's title, he
passed. by, for the moment, the question whether the survey was
made by the proper surveyor or conformed to the entry; but inquired
whether 2the land taken up was cc waste and'unappropriated land."
But first it would be necessary to disembarrass the case of the allegation that it had been already settled by judicial decisions. The present plaintifts 'were not parties to any prior case, The first was in
4 Call. 268, where the question -arose whether the reserved lands
were subject to entry or not. It went up to the Court of Appeals for
their opinion, who said that, whether the land was Cherokee land or
,not, .was a question of fact depending upon proof, and said also that
he who affirmed it would have ,the burden of proof upon him. It
'is admitted that where there is a general law with exceptions, he
who wishes to bring himself within the exception mu~t show it. It"
is also true that the act of 1781 could not divest Clark of any title
which had vested in him. The legislature of Virginia could not
effect it under the constitution of the state.
In the case of Rawlins v. Clarke, 8 Dana, 15, by the compact
between Virginia and Kentucky, the Virginia law was the guide, and
the decision is nothing ,more than the opinion of a state couirt upon
general law, which may be decided in different ways in different
states. The Kentucky court was in the same situation as the Virginia court, and had no further evidence of the fact of this being
Cherokee country. The latter decision is entitled to less weight,
because the preceding decision in Virginia was looked to as authority, and the attention of the court was drawn chiefly to the-question
of fact. In the case in 13 Ieters, the construction of the resolutions
of Yirginia was not argued, and the state of facts before the court
now is not the same as it was then. The court cahnot ex ofifieo take
notice of treaties which are not read and have never been published.
This court once and 'again followed the courts of Tennessee in
deciding a question of local law; but on the third time, they reversed

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

101

Porterfield v. Clark.

their 9pinion, because the courts of Tennessee had done so too.
There is now, as then, a different state of information before the
court. If Virginia ever put Indian land into the market before the
title was xiffnguished, it was not'done designedly, but ignorantly
and by construction. This court has said so in the case of Johnson
v. McIntosh, and ought now to relieve Virginia from the imputatidn.
What is the true construction of the act of 1779 upon this point?
Before the Revolution, Great Britain stood in the light of a protector
for the Indians against the intrusion of the whites, claiming that no
title should be acquired from them except by purchase; but as long
as the title was unextinguished, the Indians wer protected in the
possession according to their own mode of enjoyment. The right
only .was claimed to trahsfer the occupancy when the title should be
purchased. It now appears that the title to the land in controversy
had not been extinguished in 1779. At that time we had, by the
treaties of Hard Labor and Lochaber extinguished all title to land
except to that west and south of 'the ridge which divides the Cumberland from" the Tennessee. It must be remembered also that Virginia thought she had Indian land within her limits. Up to 1779,
the Chickasaws had never been recognised ty the diplomacy of Virginia, who thought all the Indian land was Cherokee. There was
a claim presented from 1775 to 1778, respecting Henderson's purchase, and committees were appointed every year, who reported that
a compensation should be given for his expenses and a law passed
giving him about 250,000 acres; In the same year, 1778, a resolution was passed appropriating land to military claimants, covering
'Henderson's grant, but excepting it, together with the rights of
settlers. The whole of the residue was allotted to soldiers. In
1776, the county of Kentucky had been established. Henderson
disclaimed all legal title and put his claim -6n the ground of a reasonable appropriation. This was the state of things in 1779, when the
law passed; -but it did not pass albne. It was preceded by an act
to establish a land-office. As early as 1776, a joint resolution was
passed complaining of the difficulty of land-titles and making provision to meet it. Virginia intended to sell only the lands that were
marketable, but none west of the Tennessee. In 1781, when a
change was made,'and that land superseded the land which had
fallen into North Carolina, there '*as no. saving whatever of any
rights. Did she believe there were any legal rights then? If so,
she would have saied them. She aftenvards asserted her authority

102

SUPREME COURT.
Porterfield v. Clark.

over the Indian lands, but only claimed a pre-emptive right. In
1784, -when the governor was authorized to suspend proceedings,
she did not think there 'ere any Treasury warrants located there,
because military aid was promised to remove incumbents.
What then is the construction 6f the act of 1779?
It does not put intothe market any land to which the Indian title
was not extinguished. Although she might have sold the land,
subject to the Indian title, there must be strong proof of it, because
good faith to the Indians required her not to do it. Where is the
law authorizing it? Where are the words in the act? There are
none there to justify it. It would be a violent interpretation to make
her do the same thing with both kinds of lands. For her-own lands
she asked forty pounds .in depreciated paper per hundred acres.
Was the same price asked for a reversion only? But the letter of
the law tells us what kind of land was meant, not waste lands only,
but unappropriated lands. Can such be called so, to which the
Indian title had not been extinguished. She only claimed a reversion, and in the mean time it was solemnly appropriated to the
Indians, by every guard by which she could do it. It was inaccessible to whites; the public faith was pledged to protect it for an
indefinite period of time.' Was not this appropriated? and is the
question decided by the court of Virginia, or Kentucky, or was it
before them? How can they be unappropriated? Is it said that
Virginia violated her faith by pledging these lands to the soldiers,
and authorizing them to take the lands. She never meant to relinquish' her-right of eminent domain, and suppose that, for self-preservation, she agreed to give them to the soldiers, would it follow that
she also intended to sell them for money? The motives in the two
cases are entirely diffierent. But if we say that she intended only to.
pledge the land to the soldiers, subject to the Indian title, it is not
the spirit of her legislation, for all the lands between Tennessee and
Green River were free from Indian title, and she offered that or a
claim to the reervation in the Indian land. The boon, therefore,
was immediate. There is no evidence that she intended to force the
Indian land upon the soldiers; but permitted them to wait, if they
chose, or take the other lands. There is nothing unjust to the soldier or to the Indian in this. When the Indians objected to the
survey, insteaa of enforcing her right, Virginia suspended her proceedings. Why did not Virginia reserve all Indian lands instead ot
Cherokee lands? Because the terms are synonymous. 'There were

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

103

Porterfield v. Clark.

-

no Indians there except Cherokees. From 1729 to 1779 she had
made all her treaties, and established boundaries with Cherokees.
Where are any with Chickasaws? She thought then that she
excepted the whole Indian land. It is said that mentioning Cherwkees implies that more were there. There were no Indians on this
side of the Blue Ridge. They excepted all the Indian country they
knew of. If they had 'thought their allies, the Chickasaws, had not
been protected, would they not have done it? Can wuy construction
be sustained, which would seize upon friendly Indians' Iinds, and
protect those of a hostile tribe? If yoi believe that she never
intended to open the Chickasaw lands, can you say thai she did it
ignorantly? The great rule of all contracts, from the most hunible
parol one to treaties, is the intent of the parties. Look at the injustice and inconsistency which would be charged to Virginia. But
suppose I am wrong in all this, and the Cherokees were alone
excepted; commissioners were appointed at that or the previous
session, by Virginia, to purchase this very land. What was the
6bject of Virginia? to protect the Cherokees as such? for their personal benefit? or to describe a tract of country to be-free from Treasury warrant? Suppose Virginia was mistaken, and it turned out
to be Chickasaw country? Was not the intention: clear? -to reserve
this land? A mistake in the description would not vitiate the act.
Calling the country by a wrong name would not destroy the reservation. The whole analogy of law is against it. A devise would not
fail if you can find a person answering the description, although the
name be wrong. If the Cherokees had no land there, we must find
out the true persons intended' to be protected. An interpretation
must be adopted which will further and fulfil the spirit of the act.
If it can be shown that these lands were not intended to be protected,.the cause will be surrendered. They- were never intended to be
put into the market. It-would not be fair to do so to the purchaser,
to say nothing of the Indian.
Suppose I am wrog in all this, and the exception is not in favour
of the country but personal, can it not be shown to hive belonged
to the Cherokees? Our-argument was not to prove actual alibi, but
where Virginia supposed the Cherokees to live. Virginia had made
four or five land-offices, and it is proved what they did not mean to
protect, and there would have been no necessity for protecting the
Cherokees, unless they had supposed them to live on the west side
of the Tennessee river. Between the -Green and Tennessee the

104

SUPREME COURT.
Porterfield v. Clark.

country was thrown open. What then did they mean, to protect?
What was not indluded within the military reservation was not
north or east of. the Tennessee. It must have been.west and south
of it. The- argument goes to shc6iv the intention of the legislature.
But to the p9int whether this was not actually Cherokee country.
In examining this fact, what sort of evidence will be required? Is
it the evidence of a law, or treaty with the United States? Must
we show only primafacie evidence? or produce a treaty with .the
United States? The question is one of meum and tuum. Is the
treaty of Hopewell conclusive? The establishment of the boundary
will decide whether Porterfield or Clark is the owner of this property,
and this is a judicial question. The question of boundary may be a
political question generally, and courts cannot decide between sovereign powers, but they are bound to decide a question of property.
Neither the executive nor legislature can act -upon it. If a law
were passed giving the property to Porterfield, I would think it an
insult to the court to offer it here. If this were a question between
the Cherokees and the United States, it might be doubtful how far it
could be considered. But if the treaty had not settled the point,
and abstained from doing so, the court would then take it up, as
they did iii Arredondo's case.
The case in' 11 Peters, 186, was correctly decided, because where
tw6 sovereign powers agree as to their boundaries, it declares that
their jurisdictions come up to the line and bind the citizens of each.
But if a claim to property had been made in the part transferred,
would the court say that the right to the soil had also passed with
the change of jurisdiction? In Case of cession, rights would be adjudged by the laws which prevailed before it took place, and it is
only the jurisdiction and sovereignty which -passes over: But in
this case, there is no question of sovereignty involved. The treaty
of Hopewell never intended to settle qfiestions of property. All it
intended was to fix the boundary as to the jurisdiction of the parties.
The same remarks apply to the case in 14 Peters. North Carolina,
in 1783; marked out a line, and in 1784, extended it towards the,
Indians, giving the surveyors power to open offices, and protecting
the Indians as to the rest, and it was doubted whether the act of
1784 did not repeal the protection of 1783.
The title arose between 1794 and 1797 when the line was run,
and it was necessary to inquire at -what time the line wag adopted.
The question of title depended upon the fact whether the property

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

105

Porterfield v. Clark.

was in the Indian territory or not; and this could be settled orly by
the contracting parties. But that case is not analogous to this.
The question is not whether or not Virginia had.a right to legislate
over it, or a political question at all. The Chipkasawsor Cherokees
have no interest at all in it.
From 1729 to 1779 the' Cherokees were recognised as owning
land in the west, but the Chickasaws were not. In 1763, the proclamation of the king prohibited any person from acquiring land west
of the mountains, and this had not been changed by Virginia, but
reognised in 1776. Chap. 13 page 350 of Revised Code.
George Walton 'and Qthers say in their petition that'the proclamation prevented them from completing their title. Journal of the
House of Delegates of Virginia, for 1778, pages 64,-97.
Treaties had been made 'with the Cherokee at Hard Labor,
Lochaber, Fort Stanwix. Henderson 'had purchased up to the
ridge vhich divides -the Tennessee from the Cumberland. The
purchake was assumed .by Virginia and Henderson compensated.
Inquiry was made of the chiefs as to the .nature of the. purchase,
and commissioners appointed to take testimony. For these proceedings see journal of May, 1777, pages 44, 49, 56, 65, 70,. 20, 41, 48,,
136; and May, 1778, pages 30, 36,70, and Nov. 1778, pages 79,91.
As soon as the act passed for Henderson, the resolution was passed
appropriating lands. for the soldiers. In the act there is a reference
to the proclamation of 1763; in the act of 1779 for settling titles, no
claims are recognised in opp6sition to the proclamation, all others are.
"What was in fact the Cherokee country in 1779 ?
The treaty of Hopewell does not touch this point. It intended to
act for the future and not for the past. The lines described in two
clauses do not-'touch each other but leave a gap. It would have
been impossible to trace the'line between the Cherokees and Chickasaws by a surveyor, for it would depend upon the fact where they.
lived-,. and they might have had joint occupancy. No one ever
treated with th6 Chickasaws until 1785.
But is there nothing to show that- this was Cherokee country in
1779 ?
Therd is the evidence of Mr. Force, a disinterested witness, an:ex
parte; He produces fourteen maps from 1755 to 1778, made by French
and.English authority, which put the Chickasaws south of latitude
35, and the Cherokees.north of'them. The river Tennessee is called
in these old maps- the river of the Cherokees, and they are placed
VOL. M.-14

106

SUPREME COURT.
Porterfield v. Clark.

as far west as the Mississippi. By the treaty of Fort Stanwix the
Tennessee river is the south boundary of the Six Nations, and the
Cherokees are over it.
.The Cherokees were recognised as owners by Virginia in 1769,
because she wanted to purchase from them all north of 36.30, to
extend the boundary with North Carblina to the Mississippi. (See
address of the House of Delegates.) Lord Hillsborough replied thit
'the Cherokees would not consent to it.. So, at Lochaber, in 1770,
they were recognised as being within the limits of the province of
Virginia, because she treatedwith them and assigned to them the
west side of the line therein described, to the whole extent of Virginia. So in -the letter of .Lord Dunmore in 1772. In the articles
of, peace between'Virginia and the Cherokees in 1777I,a line is
agreed upon, and no white man is to go below the said boundary.
Virginia could not have intended that this land should be taken up
in 1719.
What is Porterfield's title?
[Mr. Johnson here went' into a minute examination of it, and
traced its history.]
But it is said that we are barred by the statute of limitation. This
statut6 is intended to protect him wh9 can trace a title from the
commonwealth, and is a special law. There is another and genetal
act of limitations, and where this is the case the special law must be
construed strictly. Clark's title cannot be tried, as ig.alleged, by
itself, because a part of the gr-dnt has been sold, as appears from the
record, and it is nowhere shown what part. The title professes to
-be from a land-office Treasury warrant,'.and upon land south of the
Tennessee; it is, therefore, void upon its face, and not within the
fair construction of the act, the third section of which says it shall,
not apply to cases of conflicting titles. The preamble of the law
shows it was- intended to apply only to a particular class of cases
nd not those within the military district.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the omnion of the court.
For the principal facts, we refer to the statement of the reporter.
The first question in order presented by the bill depends on the
validity of the complainant's title. But as that of the defendants is
the elder, and Clark's entries not objected to on the ground that they
are void for want of specialty;.and the survey and patent foanded
on them being in c6nformity to the locations, we will at once proceed

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

107

Porterfkeld v.Clark.

-

to thexniain question presenited by the bill ; that is, whether Clark's
entries were malde in the Cherokee country or limits, and therefore
void for this reason as against Porterfield's subsequent entries: The
first being on Treasury warr4nts, and the last on military warrants.
The act of 1779, by virtue of *which Clark's entries were ,made,.
excepted the.Cherokee landg from location; and -if the land in dispute, (in October, 1780,) was such, then Clark's -entries. are void,
if not, they are valid; aud this fact being found either way, wil end
te controversy. We are called on to find the fact; and as it has
been agitated in regard to this title, for nearly sixty years, uncommon
care has been- bestowed on the question, and a second argument.
-been ordered.
The defendant's title c eam
before- this court in Clark v. Smith,
13 Peters, 200, when the entries of Clark were pronounced special;
and the survey and patent declared to cbnform to the entries: And
in which case it was'also held, that it was .immaterial whether the
entry was made on.the lands claimed by the Chickasaws- or not; .it
could only be obnoxious to the provisions of the statute of 1779, if
made on lands reserved, from location bj that act; and the lands of
the Chickasaws were not thus reserved. So it had -been decided by
the Court of Appeals of Virginia in Marshall and others v. George -R"
Clark in 1791, Hughes's R. 40, and which was affirmed in Rollirs v.
Clark, by the Court'of Appeals of Kentucky, in 1839, 8 Dana's
iRep. 26.
The reservAtion is, "cNo entry or location of land, shall be admitted within the country and limits of the Cherokee Indians." Thebill alleges the entry of Clark to be within the excepted lands.The first inquiry we will make is-, how far the contest
affected by former decisions, made by the Court of Appeals of Virginia, by this court, and by the Courtof Appeals of Kentucky.,
As to patents made by Kentucky, on warrants issued by that- state
after, the Chickasaw title was extinguished, for lands west of Tennessee river, thecase of Clark v. Smith as an adjudication is direct
to the point, that Clark's patent issuperior to such titles. This may
be true, and yet Clark's entry be Void; as Kentucky, "n1794," rit;
only authorized, but made it the imperative duty of the register to
issue a patent on the certificate of survey; as he seems to have done,
in obedlence to'the act. We cannot admit that a patent thus issued
pursuant to the' authorityj and mandate of the law,-can be deemed.
void, merely because the entry of the patentee was invalid." We
-

-

-stands.

108"

SUPREME' COURT.
Porterfield v. Clark.

use the language of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, in the case
of Rollins v. Clark, 8 Dana, -28.
If Clark's entry was made,- however, on lands reserved from location by the act of 1779, then it is void, because the act did not open
the land-office for such purpose, nor extend to the excepted lands:
and whether the exception reserving the Cheiokee country, included
the lands west of Tennessee river, was in 1779, and is now, a matter of fact, as already stated, for the court to ascertain. *This fact is
not concluded by the case of Clark v. Smith, although materially
influenced by it. That adjudication, so .far as this question was
involved in it, is founded mainly on the case of Thomas Marshall,
George Mater, and others, superintendents of the, Virginia state line,
v. -George Rogers Clark, Hughes's Rep. 39, in a suit by caveat, to
restrain Clark from obtaining a patent on the survey founded on his
entries; two entries having ,been included in it. 'The cause was
tried before the-Court of-Appeals of 'irginia in17,91, on the caveat,
filed. in 1786. The first fact agreed by the parties, and submitted to
the court, was whether the locations of Clark could be made west
of the Tennessee river on Treasury Warrants ; 'or, in other words;
whether that countr was reserved from location, as being the country an'd limits of the Cherokee Indians. The iourt held, " the solution: of the question to depend on a matter of fact to be decided on
evidence; and none such appearing, or being supplied by 4ny law,
charter, or treaty, produced or' suggested, which ascertained what
the country or limits of the Cherokees was in 1779, no solution of
the question could be given, except that it wag the opinion of the
court, that the party whose interest it was to extend the exception to
the land in dispute, must prove 'the land to be within the description.
of that exception." All the other questions were also decided against
the caveators, and the caveat ordered to be dismissed. The judgment in effect ordered that a patent should issue to Clark on his survey; and, in fact, adjudged the better right to be in him. A suit
by caveat was the ordinary mode of trying titles in Virginia, before a
patent issued, and was equally conclusive on the parties, as if it had,
been by bill in equity; this is the settled doctrine of Kentucky, and
also Tennessee; and must be so from the nature of the suit. The
.power and jurisdiction of the courts to try titles in this-manner, are
conferred by statute, which are very similar in the states named; the
practice as to the mode of proceeding, and the.effect of the judgment
being the same in each. For evidence of this, we refer to the many

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

109

Porterfield v. Clark.

-

crises reported by Hughes; and to the cases of Peck v. Eddington,
2 Tennessee Rep. 331 ; Bugg v. Norris, 4 Yerg. R. 326, and Peeler
and Campbell v. Norris, 4 Yerg. 331. "c The powers of the courts,
(it is said in Bugg v. Norris,) will be found co-extensive with any
conflicting rights two claimants may have, where the defendant is
attempting to pdrfect his entry into a grantby survey." Each party
had the privilege in the case of the superintendents against Clarke
to submit such facts as were material to sustain his right; if not
agreed, an issue could be asked, and a jury empannelled, to find on
the contested facts. They were all agreed. On these the coult
pronounced on the law of the case, and determined.who had the better claim to the land, and awarded to him the patent.
The plaintiff or defendant may introduce more or less evidence.to
sustain his claim; but if he fail, he cannot be heard to say, in a
second suit, his principal evidence of title was not introduced in the
first, and therefore he will try the same issue again in another form.
of proceeding on different and better evidence, 4 Yerg. 337-8;
Outram v. Morewood, 3 East's R. 357.
The patent being awarded to Clark, it was adjudged that he should
take the land in fee; and the whole legal estate and seisin of the
commonwealth in the lands. Had the judgment been, that no
patent issue to George Rogers Clarke, then he would. have been
estopped to-controvert the superior right of the superintendents: If
he would have been estopped, so were the superintendents, on the
judgment being the other way. 4 Yerg. 333. Estoppels are mutual.
4 Com. D. Estoppel, B. They run with the land, into whose hands
soever the land comes- by which the parties and ill claiming-under
them, as well as the courts are bound; were it otherwise, litigation
would be endless. Such is the established rule. Trevinan v. Lawrence, 1 Salk. 276, reported also by Lord.Raymond.
The superintendents were therefore estopped by the judgment of
the Cpurt of Appeals of Virginia from averring that Clark's entry lay
within the Cherokee country: and how was Porterfield'affected by
that judgment?
By the act of Nov. 1787, opening the military lands to location;
those west of Tennessee river inclusive, the officers were authorized
to appoint so many of their numbet superintendents as they might
deem proper to locate (after selections by su4rvey had been made)
all the claims of the officers and, soldiers. For this purpose they
were given authority to select the lands and distribute them among

110

SUPREME COURT.
Porterfield, v. Clark.

!he claimants according to their respective ranks. The act of Dec.
1782, makes more distinct, and further provision, and gives increased
power to the superintendents. The entire country reserved to the
uses of the military claimants was surrefidered to the possession of
the superintendents, as trustees, from which they might select any
lands, to comply with the purposes of the trust; as such trustees in
possession, they had the right to file the caveat against Clark, after
they had selected the land, or any part of it, (located by hip.,) for
the use of the officers and soldiets. When selected and surveyed,
then the surveys were to be drawn for and allotted as chance might
eterrmne; after which, the party thus entitled was authorized to
enter of record by an ordinary location, the number he drew in the
lottery. Porterfield drew the lands set forth in the bill; to prqtect
his entries the caveat was filed, as well as to protect others set forth
in the record adjoining Porterfield's; and also to maintain the general right'of all the claimants entitled exclusively to locate in the
reserved lands.
As Clark would have been estopped to deny the right of
the
superintendents, (had they been successful,) to appropriate the land
in dispute,.it is difficult to say, that Porterfield, for whose benefit
especially the caveat suit was prosecuted by those acting for his use,
is not also estopped,. on the principle of mutuality. It is hardly
possible to separate the right of those acting as trustees, from that of
the cestui que trust: still, as the, proceedings and judgment in the
suit .by caveat are not set up as a defence in any manner, we can
only look to them as furnishing cogent reasons that it could not be
proved, during the time the caveat was pending that the lands west
of the Tennessee river were part of the Cherokee country, in 1779.
In the case of Clark v. Smith, no evidence was produced to the
court, other than that furnished by the treaties with the Cherokees
and Chickasaws; together with the history of the country; and
which were existing and open to the Court of Appeals of Virginia in
1791; except the treaties made since that time; and these wethought
had no material influence on the question; and therefore on the evidence then before us, it was declared, that Clark's title was not open
to controversy on the ground (then, as now) assumed, that the land
when located laywithin the country of the Cherokee Indians.
Does the record before us and the other matters adduced, furnish
additional evidence to change the result of that conclusion? As it
does not appear in the cases referred to, what the existing treaties,

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

111

Porterfield v. Clark.

contracts, and intercourse with the Cherokees had been in 1791, -areference will be made to them, so far as they may affect this controversy. During the British colobial government of Virginia, by.different
treaties, previous to 1777, the eastern limits of the Cherokees commenced six miles above the Long Island in Holston river, (now
in the county of Sullivan, Tennessee,) from thence to Cumberland,
gap; then to the head of the Kentucky river, and down the same to
the Ohio. This line ran down the Cumberland mountain from
Holston river to the gap, and included in part the great road from
Virginia to Kentucky passing through Cumberland gap. The citizens of Virginia settled on the road, and west of the line ; irritation
on part of the Cherokees was the consequence. In July, 1777, the
Long Island treaty was made, at Fort Henry, standing at the island.
By that treaty the Indian line was removed further west; commencing
six milds above the island, and running with the river to the mouth of
Cloud's creek; being tle second creek below Rogersville, in Hawking
county, Tennessee, and a few. miles below that place; thence to a
high point of Cumberland mountaina fear miles below the gap;
here the line stops, and it was the only one between Virginia and
the Cherokees existing in 1779, (wlhen the land law was passed,)
except the boundaries established by the grant to Richard Henderson
and Company, dated in March, 1776; the extent and effect of which,
willbe preiently seerA. As the treaty of 1777 has a most important
bearing on the facts hereafter stated, its material parts are given.
"Article 3d. That no white man shall be suffered to reside in or
pass through the Overbill farms without a proper certificate, signed
by three magistrates in the county of Waslington, in Virginia, or in
the county of Wataugo, in North Carolina, to-be produced to, and
approved by the agents at Chota. Any person failing or neglecting
to comply herewith, is to be apprehended .by the Cherokees and,
delivered to the said agent, who they are to assist in conducting to
the commanding officer at Fort Henry; and the said Cherokees may.
,apply to their own use all the effects such persons may be in possession of at the time they are taken in the nation. And. should, any
runaway negroes get into the Overhill farms, the Cherokees are to
secure them until the agent can give notice to the owner, who; on.
receiving them are to pay such a reward as the agent may judge
reasonable.
",Article 4th. That all white mefi residing in or. passing through
the Overhill country, properly authorized or certified as aforesaid,

SUPREME COURT.
Porterfield V. Clark.

are to be protected in their persons and property, and to be at
liberty to remove in sdfety when they desire it. If any white man
shall murder an Indian, he shall be delivered up to a magistrate in
Washington county, to be tried and put to death according to the
laws of the state. And if any Indian shall murder a white man, the
said Indian shall be put to death by the Cherokees, in the presence
of the agent at Chota, or two magis~tates in the county of Washington.
"cArticle 5th. That as many white people have setted on lands
below the boundary between Virginia and the Cherokees, commonly
called Donelson's line, which lands they have respectively claimed
in the course of this treaty, and which makes it necessary to fix and
.extend a new boundaiy, akd to make a just and equitable purchase
of the lands contained therein, it is therefore agreed by and between
the said commissioners in behalf of the commonwealth of Virginia,
of the one part, and the subscribing chiefs in behalf of the 6aid
Cherokeeson the other part, in free and open treaty without restraint,
fear, reserve or compulsion of either party, that a boundary-line
between the people of Virginia and the Cherokees be established,
and the lands within the same be sold -and made over to the said
commonwealth; which line is to begin at the lbwer comer of Donelson's line on the north side of the river Holston, and to run thence
down that river according to the meanders thereof, and binding
thereon, including the great island to the mouth of Claud's creek,
being the sec9nd creek below the warrior's ford at the mouth of
Carter's valley; thence running a straight line to a high point on
Cumberland mountain, between three and five miles below or westward bf the great gap which leads to the settlement of the Kentucky.
"cThis last mentioned line is to be considered as the boundary between.Virginia and the Cherokees. And all the lands between the
said line and that run by Col. Donelson, and between the said river
and Cumberland mountain, as low as :the new boundary, is to be the
'piesent purchase.
"cFor which tract of land, or so much thereof as may be within the
limits of Virginia when the boundary between the states of Virginia
and North Carolina is extended, the said commissioners agree, in
behalf of the *commonwealth, to give to the said Cherokees two
hundred cows and one hundred sheep, to be delivered at the great
iland when the said line shall be run from the river to Cumberland
mountain, to which the said Cherokees promised to send deputies

JANUARY TFZRM, 1844.

113

Porterfield' v. Clark.

and twenty young maen, on due notice .of the time being given.
them.
cc And for and in consideration of the said-stocks of cattle and sheep,
the said chiefs do, for themselves and their 'nation,'sell, make over,
and convey ter the said commonwealth, -all the lands contained
within the .above described boundary, and do hereby for ever quit
and relinquish all right, title,. lain or interest in and to the said
lands or any part thereof; and they agree, that the same may be
held, enjoyed aid occupied by the purchasers, and; that.they have
a just right, and are fully able to sell and convey the said lands in
as full, clear, and ample a manner as any lands can possibly be, or
ever have been sold, madie over or conveyed by any Indians whatever.
icArticle 6th. -An to prevent as far as possible any cause or pretence, on either side, to break and infringe on the peace so happily
established between Virginia and the Cherokees, it is agreed by the
commissiofters aforesaid and Indian chiefs, that no white man on.
any pretence whatsoever shall build, plant, improve, settle,'hunt, or
drive any stock below the said boundary, on -pain of- being drove
off-by the Indians;.and his property.of 'evdry-kind being taken from
him. But. all persons who are or may hereafter settle above the
said line, are quietly and peaceably to reside thereon without being
inolested, disturbed or hindered, by any Cherokee.Indian or Indians;
and should the stocks of those viho settle near above the line, range
over the same into the Indian land, they are not to be claimed by
any Indians, not the owner, or any persons for him, be prevented
from hunting them, provided such person do not carry a gun ; other'wise the gun and stock are both forfeited to the Indians, or any
other person who o n due proof can make it appear. Nor is any
Indiah to hunt or to carry a gun 'within the said purchase, without
license first obtained from twol justices; nor tor travel from any of
the towns over the hills, to any part within the said bbundary, without a pass from the agent. This article shall be in full force until a
proper law.is made tor prevent encroachment on the Indian lands,.
and no longer.".
This treaty fully explains why the-Cherokee country yvas excepted
from the land-law of 1779, and locations- on it prohibited; .no reasons
could add force to its stipulations.
In November, 1185, the next treaty was made at Hopewell'with
the Cheroldes by .the United States, and a new boundary was
VoL. M.-15
x2

114

SUPREME COURT.
Porterfield v. Clark.

established, biginning at the mouth of Duck river on.the Tennessee;
thence north-east, to the Ridge dividing the waters running into
Cumberland river, and the Tennessee; thence eastwardly along said
ridge .o a point from which a north-east line would strike Cumberland rivbr forty miles above Nashville. The first comer from the
beginning on the ridge is about one hundred miles from the mouth
of Tennessee rier.
In January, 1786, the same commissioners who treated with the
'Cherokeeg, also made a treaty at Hopewell with the Chickasaws:
beginning at the Cherokee comer on the ridge, dividing the waters
of the Cumberland and Tennessee rivers, and running westerly with
said ridge to the Ohio river, and then down the same.
All lands west of this line were guarantied to the Chickasaws.
The treaty Was not one of cession on part of these Indians; but the
establishment of existing boundaries: the one from the Cherokee
comer, to the Ohio, being the only line, dividing territory claimed
:by the United States, to which the Indian title had been extinguished
contained in the treaty, our inquiries need extend no further for the
purposes of the present controversy. That it was deemed the ancient
-boundary of the Chickasaws, by themselves, -ill appear hereafter:
as it will also appear, that the Cherokees in no instance, so far as our
researches have extendedi asserted to the contrary; but that they
admitted the fact, on different occasions in a manner free from exception; and which admissions were well calculated to .remove any
doubt on this point.
That the lands. west of the 'line on the ridge belonged to the
Chickasaws, and not to the Cherokees in 1779, is rendered almost
certain by the deed the Cherokees made to Richard Henderson,
Thomas.Hart, Nathaniel Hart, John Williams, John Luttrell, Win.
Johnston, James Hogg, David Hart, and Leonard I-endly Bullock,
on the 17th day of March, 1775. The first part of the deed recites
",That the Cherokee nation, or tribe of Indians, being the aborigines
and sole owners by occupancy'from the beginning of time of the
lands, on the waters of the Ohio river, from the mouth of the Tennessee river, up the said .Ohio, to the mouth of the Great'Canaway,
or New River, and so across by a southward line to the Virginia
line, by a directionthat shall strike or hit Holston river six English
miles above, or eastward of the Ltng Island therein; and other territories and lands thereunto adjoixling;" do grant, by. Oconestoto,
chief warrior, and first representative of the Cherokee nation, (ac'ing

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

115

Porterfield v. Clark.

with other warriors named,) on part of said nation to Richard Henderson and the.others, part of said -lands, for the sum and consideration of ten thousand pounds lawful money of Great Britain, to said
Cherokee nation in hand paid; the receipt of which is ackno&ledged
for and on behalf of the nation, by the warriors making the treaty;
the lands granted lying on the Ohio river; beginning on the said.
river Ohio, at the mouth of the Kentucky, Chenoca, or what by the.
English is called Louisa river; from thence running up the saW
river and the most northwardly branch of the same to the head spfing
thereof; thence a southeast course to the top ridge of Powel's mountain; thence westwardly along the ridge of said mountain unto a
point from which a north-west, course, will hit, or strike, he head
spring of the most southwardly branch of the Cumberland river;
thence down the said river, including all its waters, to the Ohio
river; thence up the said river as it meanders to the beginning.
Various covenants are contained in the deed, and among others,
that the grantees, their. heirs and assigns, shall and may from time to
time, and at all times thereafter peaceably and quietly, have, hold,
occupy, possess, and enjoy the premises granted without the trouble,
let, hinderance, molestion, or interrupign of the Cherokee nation or
any one claiming under the Cherokees. And Joseph Martin and
John Farrer were appointed by the grantors, to put the grantees in
possession.t
They, did take the possession, and founded " The colony of Transylvania," on their grant; and on the 23d day of May, 1775, the
first legislative.assembly of said colony was held, therein, and regulations 'adopted for the future go.ermnent of the same, Col. Richard
Henderson, acting for himself and the other' proprietors,' communi.cated with the Assembly, by an address delivered to it; the proprietors exhibited tifeir deed to the soil of Transylvania from the
aborigines: Col. Henderson, in person, and John Faiker, as attorney
in fact for the' Cherokees', attended the convention, whew'Farrer, in
the name of the head warriors, chiefs, and Cherokee Indians, in'
presence of the convention, made livery and cession, of all the lands
in the deed of feoffment above recited;- which deed was there again
produced. A copy of it, and of the proceedings, Appear in Butler's
History of Kentucky, 566. The same deed is set forth in Haywbod's
History of Tennessee.
This deed and the proceedings under it make up the most prominent historical transaction in the early history of Xentucky; and it

116

SUPREME COURT.
Porterfield v. Clark.

has been relied on by both sides without objection. And as a historical fact, it Was quite as -prominent in Virginia in 1791, ivhen the
caveat suit was decided; and also in 1779 when the first land-law
under consideration was passed. By the act of October, 1778, c. 3,
and tle resolution of the convention.that formed the first constitution
of Virginia in 1776, 2 Rev. Code, 350, 353, and the reservation for
Henderson and 'Co. of 200,000 acres at the mouth of Green river,
this manifestly appears. The land reserved to Henderson and Co.
is declared in full compensation to them and their heirs for the consideration paid to the Cherokees, and for the expense and trouble in
acquiring the cbuntry and aiding in its settlement.
The act of October, 1778, c. 3, recites, ,, Whereas it appears to
.the General Assefnbly that Richard Henderson and Company have
been at very great expenses, in making a purchase of the Cherokee
Indians; and although the same has been declared vbid, Yet as this
commonwealth is likely to receive great .advantage therefrom, by
increasing its inhabitants, and establishing barriers against the Indians,
it is therefore just and reasonable the said Richard Henderson and
Company be made a compensation for their trouble and expense:"
and by the second section the land.at .the mouth of Green river is
granted as the compensation proposed.
The act of May, 1779, c. 6, declares that the commonwealth has
the -exclusive right of pre-emption from the Indians of all lands
within the limits of its territory, as described in the constitution of
government in.the ybar 1776; that no'personhad a right.to purchase
any lands from any Indian nation within the commonwealth, except
persons duly authorized on public account for the use and benefit of
the commonwealth
That evdry purchase of lands made by or on behalf of the crown
o'f Great Britain from any Indian nation in the before-mentioned
limits, doth and ought to enure for ever to and for-the use and benefit
of this commonwealth, and that all sales and deeds which*have been
meade by .ny Indian* or Indians; or by any Indian nation for lands
within said limits, for the separate use of any person, or'persons,
whatsoever shall be, and the same are hereby declared utterly void
and of no effect.
The construction of the acts of 1778 and 1779, has been that the
deed to Henderson and Company was void, as against the commonwealth; but valid as against the Cherokees, and therefore the title to the
lands conveyed 'passed to the commonwealth.' This asumption has

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

117

Porterfield v. Clark.

been maintained from the time the convention sat in May, 1776; as
the resolutions of the convention show: And it received the sanction
of the United States at the treaty of Hopewell with the Cherokees in
1785. The Indians disavowed it, when the treaty commenced. On
the 22d of November, before the Chickasaws had arrived at the
treaty-ground, the commissioners called on the Cherokees for their
boundary; the Indians postponed it. On the 24th, they were again
called on, and then said, give them a pencil and paper, and leave
them to themselves, and they would draw a map of their country.
November 26, the map, and a description of the boundary claimed
was presented to the commissioners by Tassel, who spoke on behalf
of the Indians. It began on the Ohio above the mouth of the Kentucky river; ran to the Cumberland river where the Kentucky road
crossed it; thence to the Chimney-top mountain in North Carolina,
and southward.
Tassel said, on presenting the map: "I know Richard Henderson
says he purchased the lands of Kentucky .nd as far south as the
Cumberland, but he is a rogue and a liar, and if he was here I would
tell him so. He requested us to let him have a little land on Kentucky river for his cattle and horses fo_ feed on, and we consented,
but told. him at the same time he would be much exposed to the
depredations of the northern Indians, which he appeared not to
regard, provided we gave him our consent. If Attacullaculla
signed his deed, we are not inforined of it; but we know Oconestoto
did not, and yet his name is to it; Henderson put it there, and .he
is a rogue."
To which the commissioners replied: .You know Colonel. Henderson, Attacullaculla, and Oconestoto are all. dead; what you say
may be true; but here is one of Henderson's -deeds, which points
out the line, as you have done, nearly fill it strikes Cumberland,
thence it~iuns down the waters of the same to the Ohio, thence up
said river as it meanders to the beginning. Your memory may fail.
you; this is on record, and will remain for ever. The parties being
dead, and so much time elapsed since the date of the deed, and. the
country beig settled, on the faith of the deed, puts it out .of our
power to do any thing respecting it, you. must therefore be content
with it, as if you had actually, sold it, and proceed to point out your
claim exclusive of this land."
Tassel answered. Iknow they are dead, and I am sorry for it, and
suppose it is now too late to recover it. If Henderson were living I

118

SUPREME COURT.
Porterfield v. Clark.

should have the Pleasure of telling him he was a liar; but you told
us to give you our bounds, and therefore we marked the line ; but
we will begin at Cumberland, and say nothing more about Kentucky,
although it is justly- ours."
On the 2d of December, 1785, the commissioners reported ta the
secretary at war amongst other things,- That in establishing the
boundary, (with the Cherokees,) which is the chief cause of complaint with the Indians, we were desirous of accommodating the
southern states and their western citizens, in any thing consistent
with the duty we owed to the United States.
-We established the lihe from forty miles above Nashville on the
Cumnberland, agreeable to the deed of sale to Richard Henderson
and Co. as far as the Kentucky ford; thence to the mountain six
miles south of Nollchuckey, agreeable to the treaty in 1777, &c.,
with Virginia, and North Carolina." '11he latter treaty is that of
Long Island, above set out.
The sale to Henderson and Company, therefore stands on the same
grounds as if it had been made by the authority of the crown of Great
Britain, so far as boundary and Indian rights stand affected.
Its southern line from the top of Powell's mountain ran westwardly
an the top of the mountain, to a point from which a north-west
course would strike the head spring of the most southwardly branch
of Cumberland river, thence down said river, including all its waters,
to the Ohio river; thence up that river. The most southwardly
branch of the Cumberland, is the south fork running into the Cur.
berland about 170 miles above Nashville. At Hopewell, the Cumberland river was treated as the soutern boundary referred to, by
the deed to Henderson and Company: this, however, may have
been inaccurate; the top of the ridge dividing the 'vaters of the
Tennessee and Cumberland rivers- was the western boundary
claimed by the Cherokees; and it is not probable that they intended
to retain the narrow strip of, land between the top of: the ridge
anid the Cumberland river. That this ridge was the true western
boundary before 1779, appears from the following facts :When the map was furnished at Hopewell, the sale to Henderson
was disregarded and the original western boundary given, "cfrom the
beginning of time," within the expression -used in the deed'to Henderson and Co. It was returned to the war-office of the United
States, a copy of which is found, and was produced on behalf.of the
complainant, in the American State Papers, (vol. i. page 40,) pub-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

110

Porterfield v. Clark.

lished by the authority of Cbngress, edited by the secretary of the
Senate and clerk of the House of -Representatives, and published in
1832. On this map. the Cherokees laid down their western limits,
beginning at the mouth of Duck river, then to the ridge between the
Cumberland and Tennessee rivers ; then down said- ridge to the
Ohio, and up the same. At the treaty, Tassel, on behalf. of the
;Cherokees, said-"c- We will mark a line for the white people; 'we
will begin at the ridge between the Tennessee and Cumberland, on
the Ohio, and run along the same, till we gef round the white people .as
youthinkproper. We will mark aline fJrom the mouth ofDuck-riverto
the said line, and leave the remainder of the lands to the south and west
of the lines to the Chickasaws." And according to this the Chickasaw
limits to the eaM were recognised by the parties to the Cherokee
treaty, in the absence of the Chickasaws. ,1 State-Papers,. 43.
In January, 1786; the Chickasaws made 'their appearance at the
treaty-ground at Hopewell. They agreed on the lines, from the
mouth of Duck river to the ridge,; ad then with it to the Ohio, as
the boundary between themselves and the whites, (1 State Papers,
57;) and to which, the treaty made with em, 'on the 10th of Januay, 1.786, corresponded. It does not, appear any of the Cherokees
were present.
In August, 1792, Win. Blount, .governor of the south-western territory, and superintendent of Indian affairs, for the southern district,
and General Pickens, met the Chickasaws, Choctaws, and Cherokees,
represented by chiefs, at Washville, by. order of the United States, for
the purpose of securing .friendly relations with these tribes. Every
Chickasaw chief was there except three.. John Thompson, interpreter,, .nd' two chiefs attended -on part of the. Cherokees. 1 State
Paliers, 284. General Pickehs had been one of the comrrissioners
on part of the United States at Holewell; and Gov. Blount the agent
at said treaty for North Carolina, and a witness to it. Piomingo fpr
the Chickasaws handed a letter from President Washington, which
he had received by Mr. Doughty-, and a map of the country made at
Hopewell, showing the line established by the treaty; the map being
opened and explained, Wolf's friend said- the line between the
Chickasaw and the United States was right, The map being worn
and old, a copy was made, and furnished td the Indians.
Piomingo then said,--c" I will describe the boundaries of our land;
it begins on the Ohio, at the ridge which divides the waters of Tennessee and Cumberland, and extends with that ridge, eastwardly as

I20

SUPREME COURT.
Porterfield v. Clark.

far as the most eastern waters of Elk river; then south, &c., crossing
the Tennessee river at the Chickasaw old field." This is opposite
the heads of Elk.
Piomingo then addressed the Cherokees, and said: cc At the treaty
of Holston, (1791,) I am told the Cherokees claimed all Duck river.
I wiint to know if it is -o ?"
Nontuaka, for, the Cherokees, replied: " It is true. I told the
President so, and coming from himj told my nation so. I never
knew before the present, that, our people divided land and- made
lines like the. white people."
Piomingo replied: .- I am fhe man who laid eff the boundary on that
map; and'to 'save my own land, I made it plain: I know the fondness of the Cherokees to sell land." Nontuaka replied: "As to the
boundary I do not look at it. The President advised us to let one
-line serve for the four nations; he would never ask for any more
land south of it, nor suffer others; and all the hunting-ground within
.said boundary should be for the four nations."
-To this the Chickasaw chief replied: -c By marking my boundary,
I did not mean to exclude other nations from the benefit of hunting
on my lands. I knew the Cherokees had often pretended to take
the whites by the hand, but instead of doing it in good faith, they
are always sharpening their knives against them. I feared the
-whites, in retaliation, would fall on the Cherokees, and they might
take my land, supposing it belonged to the Cherokees: for this reason I have marked'it. 1 The Chickasaws then promised to furnish
the Cherokees with a copy of their map; and this was aftei'wards done.
John Thompson then said: "cWe, (the Cherokees,) do not find
fault with the line between the white people and the ChickasawsY
nor with the plare where the Chickasaw's line crosses the Tennessee;
Nut I have not before been so fully informed of the claim- of the
Chickasaws." 1 State Papers, 286.
*In regard to the line on the ridge, from the Cherokee comer north,
to the. Ohio, in our opinion, it may be safely affirmed, that so far as
the contracts, treaties, and' admissions of the Cherokees furnish
evidence as part of the history of the country, the lands west of that
line: belonged to .the Chickasaws in 1779, when the Virgr'a. landlaw was.passed; and that this is confirmed in a remarkable degree,
'hy the treaty. of Hopewell with the Chickasaws, and the intercourse
had with them-respecting that line, ,then, and afterwards.
That Virginii so understood it, can hardly be doubted. In the

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

121

Porterfield v. Clark.

-winter of 1779-80, Walker's line was run, establishing the boundary
between Virginia and North Carolina; it -as marked to the Tennessee river, and the latitude of 36.30 north taken on the Mississippi
river, the history of it.will be seen'in the case of Pleeger v. Pool,
11 Peters, 185. This led to the discovery that the southern boundary
of Virginia ran much further north than she.had apprehended. The
officers and soldiers had had assigned to their exclusive -appropriation the lands south, of Green river acquired by the deed of Henderson and Company; a great portion of the best part supposed to belong to Virginia before Walker's line was run, having fallen south
of that line, the act of 1781, after reciting the fabt, declared: that
all that tract of land included within the rivers Mississippi, Ohio, Tennessee, and the Carolina boundary-line, shall be and the .same is
hereby substituted, in lied of such lands so -lien into the said state
of North Carolina, to be claimed in the same manner by thb officers
and soldiers as the lands south of Green river: ind the act pre~cribes
the mode of lpcating them. - By virtue of.this law Porterfield's entries
were made. Four years before the act. of 1781 'was.-passed, the
Long Island treaty. of 1777, had been made with the Cherokees by
Virginia; it waA in full force in 1781, when the military claimapits
were let in td locate on the country. When we consider the strong
terms of protection imposed on Virginia by the treaty; the integrity
and elevation of character of it people; the danger of resentment on
part of the Indians; and it is hardly possible to believe-that so gross
an infraction of the treaty was intended, as the appropriation of the
country in question necessarily involved.
With the Chickasaws, at that day, Virginia had not. had any intercourse ; these lands lay far off from the residence of the Chickasaws,
and were mere hunting-grounds. Virginia might not have kiiown,
and we suppose did" not know to any degree of certainty; that 'they
belonged to this tribe, or what Indians claimed them, either in 1779
or 1181. But w6 repeat: one thing is certain, that Virginia treated
the lands 'as subject to appropriation in 1781 ; -which she could not
have donfd without forfeiting her .honour, and breaking her treaty,
had they been Qherokee lands; and we feel great confidence she
intended to do neither.- The treaty of 17-77, was equally in force in
1781, as in 1779.
The opinion of the Court of Appeals in i791, is conclusive to the
point-hat if the land in dispute was not-Cherokee-country, it was
not within th exception of 'the land-law of 1719; and that Clark's
"
L
VOL. M.-16

SUPREME COURT.
Porterfield v. Clark.
title is good, as all the lands in the commonwealth not excepted,
were subject to appropriation on Treasury warrants, although claimed
by Indians whose lands were not protected from location by statute.
It is next insisted, that as there was no other c untry in Virginia
belonging to any tribe of Indians in the west, the reservation must
have referred to that west of Tennessee river. However imposing
this argument may. seem, it is easily explained, when we recollect
that in 1779 it was unknown where the southern boundary of Virginia was. The question is, what limits did she assume as hers at
,that time? The 'Long Island treaty-line of 1777, ran down the
Holston to the mouth of Cloud's creek, and then to a point below
Cumberland gap. Up to these boundaries the Virginians had settled;
and west of it they were prohibited from going; the country for half
a degree south of Walker's line was in the possession of Virginia;
she had Fort.Henry there, and governed" it. Lands were located
and enjoyed under her laws south of Walker's line, east of the line'
running from the mouth of Cloud's creek to the mountain; and had.
the Cherokee country west of. the line not been excepted fo locafibn,. her people woula have broken the treaty and obtruded on the
After the deed of Henderson and Company had been
Cherokees
treated, as a valid cession to the state, this was the only definite and
established linelefrbetween the parties; and the protection of which,
excited great- anxiety on part of the Indians, as plainly appears by
the tro.aty; it is therefore manifest, the exception in the land-law had
reference mainly to this line, in support of the treaty as the standing
law between the parties to it.
The argument is founded on the fact, that the entire line from the
Holston, to Cumberland gap, fell to North Carolina; as Walker's
line runs through the gap, and north of the high point at which the
line terminates; but for the riasons stated, it proves nothing, when
explained by the mistake undor which Virginia labo.ured in regaed to
her southern boundary, before Walker's line was ran. Had the
legislature declared no location should be made west of the Cherokee
line;then there would be no difficulty in saying what line was meant;
as there was then no Tecognised Cherokee line in the assumed limits
of Virginia but the one from Holston river to the mountain. It ir
therefore almost as bertain huis was-the line alluded toin .the. exception of the act of -1779, as -if the tegislatur ha-d said so.
'To, prove that the Cherokees did own ihe c.,:.r_,y west of Tennessee river near its.mouth, the dep'osition .of.Peter Fvrce is -intro-

JANUARY TERM, . 1844.

.123

Porterfield v. Clark.

duced on part of the omplainant. The witness expresses it 2s his
opinion that the land in dispute in 17"79 belonged.-to the Cherokees:
This opinion is founded on books, maps, treaties, and other papers,
in his possession, and supposed by him to be authentic, vhich for
mhny years he had been collecting as connected with the history of
the United States, from the settlenent of the colonies to the adoption
of the federal constituti6n; pursuant to a contract made in 1833 with
the secretary of -state, under the authority of an act of Congress for
the publication of these papers. A portion of them are given; and
among the humber different -maps of the country wes of the Alleghany mountains, including the country on the rivers Ohio, Tennessee,
and Mississippi, from about the thirty-fourth degree'to -about the
thirty-eighth of north latitude.
Most of these maps have statements on them that the country west
of Tennessee river was Cherokee land-"c country, ofthe Cherokees,".
&c., being marked on the maps. They were published at.different
periods previous to the Revolution; the most- respectable of them,
that of Mitchell, in 1755. The physical geography of ..the country
was obviously little understood, as the maps are very imperfect, and
no authority for this purpose" at the present day, where any degree
of accuracy is required. The only'documentary evidence pr6ducad
by Mr. Force to show the residence of the Cherokees is found in the
-report in the proceedings to the British government, of Sir Alexander
Cuming, who visited the Cherokees in the spring of 1730, obtained.
their submission to the crown, and took to England some of their
chiefs, to ratify a treity there with the lords -commissioners of trade
and plantations. This treaty describes no boundaries, but is olne of
amity, and contains stipulations that the Cherokees in -fiture shall be
subjectto the sovereignty of the British crown. Sir-Alexander visited
the Indian towns on the Keowee where the treaty of Hopewell was
made, and 'went north to Tellico where the king M6ytoy residdd,
and -gothis submission, and the surrender of his crown. This town
Tellico-was near the Tennessee river, where it first takes the -name;
and is in what is now Monroe 'county, Tennessee, more than 300
miles from the land in dispute. It continued to be an Indian t6wn"
until the treaty of 18.19, when the Cher6kees extinguished their fitle
to the country there.
In January, 1793, Governor Blount, the superintendent of Indian
affairs in a letter to the secretary of war. gives an account of theplaces of residence of the Cherokees at the beginning, aid previous

124

SUPREME COURT.
Porterfield v. Clark.

to the Revolution. He says they lvd in towns either on the head
-waters of.the Savannah river, (Keowee and Tugeloi) or on the Tennessee above the mouth of Holston. He then proceed& to prove that
the lands sold to Henderson and Company did not belong to the
Cherokees; and also, that the lands-formerly sold by them to Henderson and Company, lying on the Cumberlandi.belonged to the
Chickasaws, that the Cherokees had only sold their right to them as
a common hunting-ground, and that Virginia had previously purchased them from the northern Indians. And if he is not mistaken,
in his representation of the facts and admissions of the Cherokees,
stated in his letters of November, 1792, and January, 1793, he does
prove, that to the lands sold to Henderson and Company, north of
Cumberland river, the Cherokees had no title when, they made the
deed; and that they so admitted; and that the lands ceded by them
south of that river by the treaty of Hopewell belonged to the Chickasaws; or at least that this tribe had a better founded claim to them
than the Cherokees. Copies of 'the letters are found -in the State
Papers, vol. i. pp. 325, 431."
We think that not much reliance can be placed on any thing contained in Mr. Force's deposition: And that the conclusion Governor
Blount formed, is contrary to what Virginia admitted by the treaties
of Hard Labor, and Lochaber, and; by taking title under the deed
of Henderson and Company: this deed is in conformity to the foregoing British treaties made with the Cherokees previous to the Revolution, and especially that-of 1'770, of Lochaber.; according to which,
the eastern Cherokee line in Virginia -was established from a poirit
six miles above the Long Island in Holston; thence through Cumberland gap, to the head of Kentucky river, and down the same to
the Ohio. Virginia never set up any assumptions to the contrary of
this being th6 true line as run by Col. Donelson; by whose name it
was known. Nor could the United States be heard to disavow the
Cherokee title recognised by the treaty 'of Hopewell to the lands
lying south of Cuimberland river, and recognised as theirs by that
-reaty.
And in this connection, we take occasion to say, nothing.short of
the clearest proof, would induce this court, after the lapse of nearly'
sixty years, to hold otherwise, than that the Chickasaw line, established by the treaty of Hopewell, from the Cherokee comer, to the
Ohio river, was conclusive, that it was the true line of that people,
anterior to any date, known to Virginia as a commonwealth.- As to

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

125

P'orterfield v. Clark.

the United States it was assuredly conclusive; the treaty not being
one of cession: And as to the Cherokees, acquiescence from 1785
to 1819, when the United States acquired the Chickasaw title, it
ought to conclude them, unless their superior title was plainly and
conclusively proved ; and the delay in not asserting it aceounted for
ina satisfactory manner: The same proof is required of the complainant; in which we think he has altogether failed.
The defendants proved themselves to have been more than seven
years inpossession under CItrk's patent before the suit was brought,
and therefore rely on the statute of limitations of Kentucky as a
defence.
The statute in terms bars suits in equity as well as actions-at law
where seyen, years adverse possession has been held. This court
pronounced it no violation of the compact between'Virginia and
Kentucky in 'the cas6 of Hawkins v. Barney, 5 Peters, 458. And
so JZentucky has often held. It applies to suits.where the plainiff
claims under a patent, survey, or entry, against an adverse title set
up under another patent, survey, or entry. The defendant's title
must be connected, and deducible of record from the commonwealth;
which means a connected title when tested by its own derivation.
On this the bar may be founded, although it be the younger, and
void, when contrasted with the plaintiff'selder patent. Skyles v.
I~ng, 2 Alex. Marshall's R. 387. But the statute- does not bar a
legislative grant, 3 Monroe's R. 161, and it is insisted fdr the complainant the acts of Virginia vested in the officers and soldiers an equita.
ble title; which was anterior to Porterfield's entries and fatents, and
independent 6f them on which the bill can be sustained, and therefore no bar can be interposed.* Thi rule in this court is settled, that
each state has the right to construe its own statutes; and especily
those baring titles. In the case of Greena v. Neal, .6 Peters, 291, it
was held that this court uniformly adopted the decisions of the state
tribunals,'respectively in constructing their statutes; that this was
done as a matter of principle, in all cases where the decisions of the
state court has become a rule of property.. This rule. was adopted
in Hrpending v. The Dutch Church, and has been in many other
cases, 16 Peters, 439, and cannot be departed from. The land-law's
offVirginia are just as much the laws of Kbntucky, as they were the
laws of Virginia in tfit,country be tore the separation. By the deci-sions of the- Court of Appeals of Kentucky it is settledi and has not
been open to question for many years, that an-entry was required-to
L2

126

SUPREME COURT.
Porterfield v. Clark.

give title on a military warrant in the military district; and that all
the specialty, &c.) to give it-validity, was imposed on the enterer,
as if it 4'd been,made on a Treasury warrant; each being governed
by the -provisions of'the act of 1779. Mclhenney v. Biggerstaff,
3 Littel's.R. 161. This ,form was pursued by Porterfield, and was
the only means by which he cduld acquire an individual title that
could be enforced in a eourt of justice-; although he had a common
interest in,
the lands pledged for the satisfaction'of his claim, that
could be made 'available through 'the medium of' the land-office.
,His claim, as set forthkin the bill, 'was, ther~fore, subject to be barred:
By the proof it is barred; and for this reason also the bill must be
dismissed.,
-Asitwas urged on part of the complainantwith mdtch earnestness
that the act of 1809, was' never inthnded to apply to the land in dispute, then covered, by the, Chickasaw title,- and protected' by the
treaty of Iopewell, it is demed proper to express briefly our opinion
on the ground'assumed. George R. Clark had.mortgaged the land.
long before the treaty of 1819 was made; therefore it'was subject to
salebefore the Indian title 'to occupancy was extinguished: so the
caveat suit was decided" first in Virginia in 1791i,and ultimately in
'Kentucky in 1793, after the treaty of Hopewell, therefore the title
could be litigated. In1795, a patent- issued to Clark pursuant to a
statute of Kentucky of the previous year, general in its. terms: It
follows the land-laws extended to the country, so far as the inhibi-,
tions of the treaty would jermit,.or the patent could not have issued.
Kentucky legislated for her entire territory, subject to the restrictions imposed by the treaty; which that, state recognised as the
paramount law until its restrictions were removed by the treaty of
cession; when the act of 1809, and all the other laws of Kentucky
had" effect west of Tennessee river, and operated alike in all parts
of the state,
. For 'the foregoing reasons the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill, is 'ordered to be affirmed.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from ,the Circuit Cburt bf the United States for the District of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel. On congideration whereof, It is
how here ordered and decreed by this court, that the decree of the
said Circuit Court in this cause be, and, the same is hexeby affirmed,
with',cos'ts.

