JANUARY TERM, 1844.

BENJAMIN

3.

KNAPP, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

v.

EDMrUND BANKS.

Where the plaintiff in the court below claims $2000 or more, and the ruling of,
the court is for a less sum, he is entitled to a writ of error.
But the defendant is not entitled to such writ where the judgment against him
is for a less sum than $2000 at the time of the rendition thereof.

THIs was a case brought up by writ of error from the, Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district of New York.
Banks had recovered a judgment in that court, against Knapp, for.
1720.
Ogden moved to dismiss the case -for want of jurisdiction, which
was opposed by Benedict upon the ground that adding interest upon
the judgment down to the time when the writ of error was brought,
would make itexceed $2000;. and he cited 3 Peters, 32, to show
that the amount in controversy in this court determined the jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the court.
We entertain no doubt whatsoever upon this question. The
amount in controversy is to be decided by the sum in controversy
at the time of the judgment, and not by any subsequent additions
thereto, such as interest. The distinction constantly maintained is
this: Where the plaintiff sues for an amount exceeding $2000, and:
the' ad damnum exceeds $2000, if by-rea~on of any erroneous ruling
of the court below, the plaintiff recovers nothing, or less than $2000,
there, the sum claimed by the plaintiff is the sum in controversy for
which a writ of error will lie. But if a verdict is given against the
defendant ,for a less sum than'$2000, and judgment pisses ag.'st
hit accordingly, there it is obvious that there is, on the part of the
defendant, nothing in contrbversy beyond the sum for which the
judgmefit is given; and consequently he is not entitled to any
writ of error. We cannot look beyond the time of the judgment in
order to ascertain whether a writ of error lies or not.
OPtDEIt.

Mr. Ogden, of coisel for the defendanfin error, moved the court to
dismiss this writ of error for the want of jurisdiction, because the
matters or sum in controversy, exclusive- of costs, did not exceed

$2000 ; which was opposed by Mr. Benedict, of counsel for the plaintiff
in error, who contended that although the judgment of the Circuit
VOL. I.-10

G

74

SUPREME COURT.
Stockton et al. v. Bishop.

Court was only for .$1720, yet that the interest on that sum added
thereto would make it exceed $2000. To which Mr. Ogden rejoined,
that the right of the party to a writ 'of error, was controlled by the
amount at the rehdition o" the judgment and could not be enlarged
b time. On consideration whereof, It is the opinion of this court
that where the plaintiff in the court below claims $2000 or more, and
the ruling of the court is for a less sum, that he is entitled to a writ o*f
error: but that the defendant in the court below is not entitled to
such writ where the judgment against him is for a less sum than
$2000 Pt the, time of the rendition thereof-that this is the settled
practice of this court. Whereupon it ii now here ordered and
adjudged by this court that this writ of error be and the same is
hereby dismissed for the want of jurisdiction
Feby'uary 3d.

LUcIus

W.. STOcKTON AND DANIEL MOORE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.
HARRiET BIsHoP, DEFNDANT.

An execution, issued in the court below, atter a writ of error has been sued out,
a bond given, and a citation issued, all in due time, may be quashed either in
the court below or this.court-these' things operating as a stay of execution.

fN the Circuit Court of the United States for, the western district
of Pennsylvania, Harriet Bishop, the defendant in error aid a citizen
of the state of Ohio, obtained a judgment against Stockton and Moore
for $6500 damages and costs, on the 7th of December, 1843.
On the 15th of December, 1843; Stockton and Moore entered into
a bond with Hugh Campbell as sdr"ety, for the prostcution of a wrii
of error to this court, which, was approved by the judge, and, on the
same day, a wrif of 'error and citation were sued out. -On the 16th
of December, 1843,'the citation was returned served on R. Biddle,
Esq., attorney of defendant in error.
On the 11th of January, 1844, the plaintiff below sued out a writ
of ieri facis Iand placed it in the hands of the marshal, returnable
on the 20th of May.
Coxe moved to quash the writ of fterifacia, as having been irregularly issued.

