JANUARY TERM, 1844.

457

Rhett v. Poe.

settle and determine the validity of title according to the law of natiops, the stipulations of any treaty, and the proceedings under the
same, the several acts of Congress in relation thereto, and the law and
ordinances of the government from which it is alleged to be derived,
and all other questions which may properly arise between the claimants and the'United States; which decree shall, in all cases, refer to
the treaty, law, or ordinance under which it is confirmed or decreed
against."
CHAs. F. SIBBALD.
Filed 5th March, 1842.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
On consideration of the petition filed in the above cause, it is the
opinion of this court that it has no power to grant the relief prayed.
Whereupon, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this cburt, that
this petitioiR be and the same is hereby dismissed.

ROBERT .BAUNWELL RHETT, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. ROBERT F. POE,

CASHIER OF THE BANK or AUGUSTA, DEFENDANT.(a)
Where the drawer of a bill has no right to expect the payment of it by the acceptor: where, for instance, the drawer has withdrawn, or intereepted, funds
which were destined to meet the bill, or its payment was dependent upon conditions which he must have known he had not performed, such drawer cannot claim to be entitled to notice of the non-payment of the bill.
It becomes a question of law, whether due diligence has or has not been used,
whenever .the facts aro ascertained; and therefore there is no error in the
direction of a court to the jury tht they should infer due diligence from
certain facts, where those facts, if found by the jury, amounted in,
the opinion
of the court to due diligence.
If the drawer and acceptor are either general partners or special partners in the
adventure of which the bill constitutes a pari, notice of the dishonour of the
bill need not be given to the drawer.
(a)This case, although subsequent in this volume to that of Lawrence v. McCalmont, was in fact decided before.it; having been argued at the preceding term
and held under a curf advisare vult; and the manuscript opinion in the present
case was sent for and referred to, during the progress of the argument in that
of Lawrence v. MeCalmont. The reason for stating this may be easily seen by
referring to the report of that case.

VOL. 1.-58

2Q

458

.SUPREME COURT.
Rhett v. Poe.

A court is not bound to grant an instruction prayed for, where it is merely a
recial of general or abstract principles, and not accompanied by, or founded
upon, a statement of the testimony.
The strictness of the rule requiring notice betv.sen parties to a bill, is much
relaxed in cases of collateral security, or of guarantee in a separate contract;
the omission of such strict notice does not imply injury as a matter of course.
The guarantor must prove that he has suffereddamage by the neglect to make
the demand on the maker and to give notice, and then he ig discharged only
to the extent of the damage sustained.

Tmis case came up by -writ of error to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of.South Carolina.
The suit was brought in the court below, by Poe, the cashier of the
bank, against Rhett as the endorser upon a note for $8000 under the
following circumstances:
Dixon Timberlake was'a merchant who, it appeared from the evidence,.had been for several years prior to 1837, in-the habit of going
from New York to the south, during the cotton buying season, and
then returning to New York. In the winter of 183641, he was at
Augusta, in Georgia, with large letters of credit from various houses
in New York, and also one from Benjamin R. Smith, then a merchant
in ChArleston, South Carolina. By the aid of these letters he acquired
-a credit at the Bank of Augusta, and purchased considerable quantities of cotton and some bank and other stocks in the course of the
season. Some of these purchases were upon the joint account of
Smith and himself, but the evidence was contradictory as to the particular purchases thui made.
In February and March, 1837, Timberlake, being in Augusta,
drew several bills upon Smith in Charleston, which all became due
in May. The whole amount of the bills thus due in May, was
$21)500. A separate bill for $14,000 is not included amongst these,
because it was paid.
This sum of $21,500 was divided into two classes; one class consisting of $8000 and the other of $13,500.
It appeared by the evidence, that Smith was to provide for the
first class of $8000, and Timberlake for the remaining $1 ,500.
In order to carry out the' arrangement respecting the first
class, a bill 'was discounted drawn by Timberlake upon Smith
for $8000, and the note whih was the subject of the present
suit offered and accepted as collateral security.
The note 'was
as follows:

JANUARY TERM,. 1844.

459

Rhett v. Poe.

$8000.
Charleston, Fay 9th, 1837.
Sixty days after date, I promise to pay to W. E. Haskell, or order,
eight thousand dollars, for value received.
BmrAamm R. SmuTH.
Endorsed, W. E. HASKELL, per attorney B. -R. SMITH.
R. BARNWELL SmiTH, per attorney, B. R. SmiTH.
R. Bamwell Smith, whose name it was admifted was placed upon
the note by proper authority, was the same person as R. Barnwell
Rhett, his name having been changed after the time of the endorsement.
Timberlake having made no provision for, the other class of bills,
amounting to $13,500, Smith was unable to take them up, and they
were protested.
On the 2d of June, Smith made an assignment of his property for
the benefit of his creditors, in aocertain order which it is unnecessary.
to state; and it was further proved that at and before the maturity of
the note on which the action was brought, Benjamin 1R. Smith was
insolvent.
On the 11th of July, both the bill drawn by Timberlake. upon
Smith for $8000, and the note in question for $8000, b~cane due;
but neither being paid, the note was regularly protested and certain
proceedings- had upon the bill which constitute the defence in this
case, where suit is -brought upon the note.
It was given in evidence on the part of the plaintiff, in order to
establish the regularity of the proceedings with regard to the -bill, that
the notary demanded payment at the store of Smith, the acceptor,
and his clerk (Smith being absent) replied, "cthere were no funds for
paying the same;" that the notary thereupon protested the bill-for
non-payment, and enclosed the notice thereof for Timberlake, the
drawer, in a letter sent by mail, addressed to Robert F. Poe, the
cashier of the Bank of Augusta,. as was the custom in sinilar cases;
that the notary, at the time when he protested the draft, did not know
where Timberlake was to be found; thathe had heard that he hadc
resided and done business at Augusta, but was told that he had left
that place. That he had made inquiries for Timberlake, and-was
then told that he had left Augusta, and'it was nof known where he
had gone to. That the discount clerk of the Bank of Augusta bad
it in charge, as a part of his business, to make diligent search for the
parties upom whom notices were to be served; that such notices were
served upon them, personally, by said clerk if they were in Augusta,

460

SUPREME COURT.
Rhett v. Poe.

and transmitted to them through the post-office if they were at a distance; that said clerk was in Augusta on the 11th of July, 1837, and
believes the notice would have been served on Timberlake if he had
been in Augusta;. that said clerk has searched for the notice to Timberlake and cannot find it; that Timberlake lived in a boarding-house
whilst in Augusta; That he was insolvent when said bill became due.
It was further testified by the postmaster and his assistant, that two
or more letters were receivd at the post-office for Timberlake during
the summer after he had left. Augusta, which were not advertised;
that he leased a box at the post-pffice, for a time which did not expire until the 1st of October, 1837, into which his letters were placed;
that such letters could not have been forwarded to the general postoffice, because they were not advertised; that Timberlake left Au-.
gusta on the 30th June, 183-7, in the public stage; and that he left
no agent in Augusta.
On the other hand, it was given in evidence on the part of the
defendant, upon the cross-examination'of Timberlake himself in this
case, that Timberlake left Augusta on the 30th June,.having requested the postmaster to forward his letters after him, and that he received
several letters, forwarded fr6m Augusta, agreeably to his directions,
but never received any letter or notice of the non-payment of the bill.
The defence rested chiefly on the ground, that proper diligence
had not been used to give notice to the drawer of the dishonour of the
bill, and that, consequently, the securities upon the note which was
given collaterally, were exonerated from its payment.
In the trial of the cause in the court below, two separate sets of
instructions were prayed for, on behalf of Rhett the defendant.
The first set consisted of two prayers, which were refused by the
court and were as follows :
1st. That by omission to inquire for the residence of Timberlake,
-or to send notice after him, the plaintiff has lost his right of action
against him as drawer of the bill for $8000.
2d. That if the jury find that the note was given as collateral
security for the -bill drawn by Timberlakei and that Timberlake is
discharged, then the plaintiff cannot recover aga.st the defendant on
the note sued upon.
The second set of instructions consisted of'five prayers which the
court were asked to grant, but the court refused to do so, with the
exception of the fourth, and gave its own instructions to the jury.
The prayers and instructions given are as follows:

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

461

Rhett v. Poe.

And the defendant, by his counsel, before the jury retired from the
bar, further prayed the court to instruct the jury as follows:
1st. The parties having shown, that Timberlake had drawn upon
Smith four bills, amounting in all to $21,500, which Smith had
accepted, and had, at the time of Xthe acceptance of the said bills,
$1:0,000 in hand,,received of Timberlake, to meet those bills, the
defendant prayed the court to instruct the jury, that if the evidence
was believed, then Timberlake had funds in the hands of Smith, and
was entitled to notice.
2d. The defendant having shown that Timberlake resided in New
York, and came habitually, between the months of October and
January, to Augusta, and resided in Augusta during the winter and
spring, and that Timberlake left Augusta on the 30th June, 1837,
and that the notice of non-payment of the draft was forwarded by the
notary in Charleston, to the plaintiff, on the llh July, 1837, and
nothing was shown to prove that the plaintiff had made any inquiry
after Timberlake, or endeavoured to give him notice.
The defendant prayed the court to instruct the jury that the plaintiff had not used due diligence to give the drawer notice.
3d. And inasmuch as evidence had been given, that the bills drawn
by Timberlake on Smith, were drawn for purchases of cotton or stock,
on the joint account of Smith and Timberlake, and Timberlake had
diverted the property purchased on joint account to his own use, and
was therefore bound to provide for the bills which fell due in May,
to the amount of $13,500, and had not done so; the defendant prayed
the court to instruct the jury,'that the default of Timberlake to take
ap the bills for $13,500, did not excuse the want of notice to make
him liable on the bill for $8000.
4th. And the defendant prayed the court to'instruct the jury, that
if Timberlake had effects at any time between the drawing and the
maturity of the said bill, in the hands of Smith, he was entitled to
notice.
5th. The defendant prayed the court to instruct the jury, that the
insolvency of the acceptor and drawer, before the maturity of the
bill, did not excuse the holder from giving notice of non-payment to
the drawer.
And the court instructed the jury as follows- On the first instruction asked, the couit instructed the jury, that if they believed from
the evidence, that Timberlake had in the hands of Smith, when Smith
accepted the bill for $8U00, $10,000, that Timberlake was entitled
2 q-2

SUPREME COURT.
Rhett v. Poe.

to notice of the dishonour of the bil" from the holder. But if the jury
also believe from the evidence, that the $10,00, in the bands of
Smith, was a fund raised upon Smith's letter of credit to Timberlake,
and was to be applied to the payment of purchases on joint account,
and had been so applied, and that there was an arrangement afteriyards between Timberlake and Smith in respect to all the bills drawn
by Timberlake, amounting to $21,500; that Timberlake was to put
Smith in funds to pay bills to the amount of $13,500, of the $2],500,
which were to become due before the bill of $8,000 became due,
and' that on Timberlake doing so Smith was to pay the $8,000 bill;
and that Timberlake did not put Smith in funds to pay the $13,500,
and that the same were protested, of which Timberlake had notice;
then, that Timberlake had no right to notice of the non-payment of
the $8,000 bill from the holder.
On the second instruction asked, the court instructed the jury, that
if they believe from the evidence, that Timberlake resided in New
York, and wa a. sojourner in Augusta, from. time to time, as stated
in the instruction asked, that then, as drawer of the bill, he was
entitled to notice of its dishonour; but if the jury believe from the
evidence, though he may have resided in New York, that he had
made' Augusta his residence since the fall of 1834 or 1835, and that
he had removed from Augusta, and out of the state of Georgia, after
the biil for $8,000 was drawn, and before its maturity, that then due
diligence had been used to give him notice of the dishon6ur of the
bill.
On the third inistruc n asked, the court instructed the jury, that
if they believe from the evidence, that the bills drawn by Timberlake
upon Smith, were drawn for purchases of cotton or stock on the joint
account of Smith and Timberlake, and that Timberlake had diverted
the property purchased on joint account to his own use, and that after
promising Smith, the acceptor, to take up the bills to the amount of
$13,500, he had failed to do so, and had not supplied Smith with
money to take up the bills for $13,500, after the same were dishonoured, up -to the time when the $8,000 draft became due- and
that there was an arrangement between Timberlake and Smith, after
the .$8,000 bill was accepted, that Timberlake was to put Smith in
funds to take up the drafts for $13,500, which had been dishonoured,
and did not do so, that Timberlqke was not entitled to notice of the
dishonour of the bill for ,8,000.
To the foirth instruction asked, the court instructed the jury, if

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

463

R hett v. Poe.

they believe from the evidence, that Timberlake had effects in the
hands of Smith at any time between -the drawing of the bill, aid the
maturity of the said bill, that he was, as drawer, entitled to notice.
To the fifth instruction asked, the court instructed the jury, that
the insolvency of 'the drawer and the accepto, before the maturity
of the bill, did not excuse the holder of the bill from giving notice of
non-payment to the drawer. But the court. further instructed the
jury, that if the insolvency of the drawer and acceptor were known
to each other, and that this bill was drawn to pay for a purchase on
joint account, or a tranqaction in which they were partners, and that
the property so purchased had been diverted by the drawer to his
own use, and that the payment of all the bills had been the subject
of private arrangement between the acceptor and the drawer, that
then the holder was excused from giving notice of the non-payment,
of the bill for $8,000.
'Whereupon, the said counsel, on behalf of the said defendant,
before the jury retired from the bar, excepted to the aforesaid opinion
and charge of the court, on the first, second, third, and fifth instructions moved for, and now excepts, and prays the court to siga and.
seal this bill of exceptions, which is done accordingly, this nineteenth
day of April, in the year eighteen hundred and forty-one.
JAMES M. WAYNE, [L. s.]
R. B. GmcnmsT. [L. s.]

The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff for $8000,. with interest
from the 11th July, 1837.
To review all these prayers and instructions, the writ of error was
brought.
Coxe 'and Legare, (attorney-general,) for the plaintiff in error.
Wilde and Hunt, for the defendant.
Coxe, for the plaintiff in error, said 'two questions naturally arose in
the case.
1. Is Timberlake discharged?
2. If he is, what is the effect upon Rhett?
Mr. Coxe *reviewed the evidence in order to show that Timberlake
had provided sufficiently for the draft of $8000, as he thought; and
that it was charged to Smith and not to Timberlake, in his account
with the bank.' He then argued that'Rhett, being a collateral security, was entitled to all the rights of a party; that Timberlake's obligation to pay arose only in case the acceptor did not, and he, Timber-,

464

SUPREME COURT.
Rhett v. Poe.

lake, was' duly notified of such failure; that he was ndt notified for a
year; that the bank never served the notice, which it was bound
to do. Chitty on Bills, ed. of 1839, p. 465, ch. 10, sect. 1, where
the cases are collected. (See note.) The holder must give notice to
all parties. 3 Taunt. 130.
It is true that the cases recognise a distinction between an endorsement upon the bill itself and an engagement in a separate contract.
But no case justifies the extent of the doctrine which must be contended for by the other side.
As to the second instructibn, there was' no evidence thbt Timberlake had made Augusta his residence; and even if there was, the
notice should have been sent, after him to New York. Another state
is not a foreign country. He did not abscond; he went away in company with one of the officers of the bank, and was with another of
them, at the Sulphur Springs. There is no evidence that it was a
partnership debt. The books say, it is dangerous not to give notice.
Our remedy must not be impaired; separate notices ought to be given
to all the parties. Chitty, 466. Our remedy against Timberlake
has beeli impaired by the course pursued.
The first instruction of the? court modified the prayer by adding,
-"if the fund was raised by Smith's letter of credit to Timberlake;"
but, these funds do not appear to have been raised in this way. The
evidence is to the contrary. It said also, that if Timberlake failed to
take up his share, viz; $13,000, then Smith was exonerated from his
agreement as made between them. But suppose this so, does this
excuse the bank? A suit would have been necessary, which the
bank had no right to anticipate. It is always inferred that a drawer
has funds in the hands of a drawee and had a right to.draw. 1 Term
Rep. 416;.20 Johns. 485, 486.
if there is a reasonable expectation that a bill will be paid, the
drawer is entitled to notice. 2 Campb. 461; 12 East, 433, S. C.;
Chitty, 487.
The holder must use reasonable diligence to discover the resiaence
of the endorser; but here there was no effort at all. They might
have learned at the post-office where Timberlake's letters -were sent
to. 2Peters,96;. Chitty,488,A.; 3(freenleaf,83; 8Pick..251.
Wilde, for defendant ift error.
The plaintiff in error contends:
1. That due notice of the non-payment of the bill was not given to
Timberlake, the drawer, and therefore Timberlake was discharged.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

465

Rhett v. Poe.

2. That his undertaking being only collateral to that of Timberlake,
the discharge of Timberlake releases him.
And to this effect he prayed the first and third instructions.
To this it is replied on the part of the defendant in error:
1st. That there was actual notice to Timberlake or, due diligence
to give such notice. [Mr. WIde here entered into a critical review
of the testimony, and inferred that,] there were before the jury sufficient facts-to warrant them in finding actual notice. If the evidence
falls short of establishing actual notice, still due diligence is abundantly proved. When the facts are ascertained and undisputed, what
shall constitute due diligence is a question of law. 1 Peters, 583;
Chitty on Bills, ed. 1817, p. 226, where it is said, (quoting the words
of Lord Ellenborough in Walwyn v. St. Quentin,) when the holder
of a bill does not know where the endorser is to be found, it would
be very hard if he lost his remedy for want of immediate notice.
English Cases.-12 East, 433; Cowen, 81 ; Wightwick, 76.
American Cases.-1 Johns. Rep. 294; 3 Johns. Rep. 376; 5 Binney, 541 ; 4 Serg. and Rawle, 480. Other American cases collected
in Bayley on Bills, 176, 183, notes; al§o, 5 Wendell,. 587; 21 Wendell, 643; 24 Wendell, 230; 4 McCord, 503; 3 McCord, 394;
2 Wash C. C. R., 191. The decision in the last case was sustained
in 10 Peters, 572; 6 Wheat. 104; 8 Wheat. 326, 330; 9 Wheat.
598; 1 Peters, 582; 2 Peters, 96.
[Mr. Wilde gave an abstract of each of these cases, and dwelt particularly upon the last, where the court say, "cThe holder of a bill or
promissory note in order to entitle himself to call upon the drawer or
endorser, must give notice of its dishonour to the party whom he
means to charge. But if, when the notice should be given, the party
entitled to it should be absent from the state, and has left no known
agent to receive it; if he absconds, or has no place of residence, which
reasonable diligence, used by the holder, can enable him to discover,
the law dispenses with the necessity of giving regular notice." He
then examined the evidence to showhow the case at bar was covered
by the authority quoted, and that due diligence had been used.]
It is clearly shown moreover by the evidence, that when the bill
fell due, both drawer and acceptor were insolvent.
• Here then is the full justification of the second instruction and so
much of the fifth as differs from the instruction prayed.
But if the facts clearly proved do not constitute due diligence,
we say:
VOL. ..- 59

466

SUPREME COURT
Rhett v. Poe.

2. That Timberlake was not entitled to notice. "In regard tothis
transaction, we insist, he is to be considered, either as a partner
drawing on a partner, or the drawer of a bill for his own accothnodation ; and in either branch of the alternative he is not entitled to notice.
1st. As a partner; notice to one partner is notice to all. Gow on
Partnership, 214, 215; 1 Campb. 82, 404; 1 Maule and Selw. 259;
20 Johns. Rep. 176.
[Mr. Wilde here examined the evidence to show that this was a
partnershiip transaction, or if not so, that it was for the accommodation of the drawer.] Where the drawer has no effects in-the hands
of the acceptor, he is not entitled to notice. 1 Term Rep. 405 ; Chitty
on Bills, ed. 1834, p,. 39 ; 4 Maule and Selw. 226, 230, 231, 232;
3 Barn. and Ald. 619, 623; Chitty, 57; 3 Campb. 281; 4 Moore
and Payne, 463.
The case of the Bank of Columbia v. French, 4 Cranch, 141, does
not impugn the authority of Bickerdike v. Bollman, 1 Term Rep.
405; but merely overrules the case of Walwyn v. St. Quentin, and
de Berst v. Atkinson, which are no longer law, even in England.
See 15 East, 216; 3 Barn. and Aid. 619, 623. The case in
4 Cianch, 141, is commented on and sustained, as to the point, in
10 Peters, 578.'
This branch of the argument may therefore be summed up as follows:
That Timberlake must be regarded either as a partner drawing on
a partner, or as the drawer of a bill for his own accommodation. In
the first instance, notice t6 Smith was notice to himi; in the second,
he 'was clearly not entitled to notice.
There is no error,.therefore, in the first or third instruction.
3. In seeking to determine the extent of Rhett's responsibility, he
may be considered either as if his name were on the bill as endorser,
or as if he were a mere. guarantor. 1st. As if his name were on .the bill.
'In order to perfect the claim of the holder of a bill against the
endorsers, it is not necessary for the holder to give notice to the
drawer. It is for the endorsers to give notice to the drawer, if they
wish to preserve .a remedy against him: Chitty on Bills, ed. 1834,
pp.. 68, 69; 1 Strange, 441 ; Burr. 669 ; 2 Campb. 539.
Let it be remarked, that the note 'sued on was collateral security
for Timberlake's bill; if the bill were paid, the note was paid.
Now, the note being duly protested for non-payment, and notice

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

467

Rhett v. Poe.

thereof sent on the same day to Rhett and Haskell, Rhett and Haskell must have been thereby apprized that the bill was not paid, and
it was for them, according to the authorities just quoted, to give notice
to Timberlake if they desired to hold him responsible.
Let it be remarked further, that the very note given as collateral
security and sued on in this case, is endorsed by procuration. Smith
endorses both for Rhett and Haskell, under powers of attorney from
both. Smith, therefore, the attorney in fact of Rhett, had express
notice of the dishonour of the bill, for the collateral security of which
the note sued on was taken.
Notice to him was notice to Rhett, and if, Rhett (considering him
in the light of an endorser) desired to hold Timberlake responsible,
it was for him to give Timberlake notice. The plaintiff was not
bound to do it.
This court, in delivering its opinion in Williams v. Bank of the
United States, 2 Peters, 96, already cited, evidently had the limitation of the hold er's obligations in view. They say, "it is incumbent
on him, to 'give notice to the party whom he means t6 charge. . He
is not obliged to notify any others; if they desire to have recourse
over on other parties, it is for them to give such parties notice."
Considering the rights and liabilities-of Rhett, therefore, as if his
name were on the bill-the situation of the parties would be this:
Smith, acceptor, as partner, or for the accommodation of Timberlake.
Rhett, endorser, for the accommodation of Smith.
Now to whom had Rhett to look?
To Smith anl'Timberlake.
Both are liable:
Smith as acceptor.
Timberlake as the drawer of an accommodation bill, or as a
partner.
All Smith's effects are assigned .to Rhett; and, whatever is due
from Timberlake to Smith, on their joint account, can be received
by 4thett from Timberlake. Timberlake continues liable to Smith
for whatever may be paid for him by Smith as acceptor for his
accommodation; or, considering them as partners, for the balance
of partnership accounts, and this balance, whatever it may.be, is
assigned by Smith's assignment for Rhett's benefit as a protected
endorser.

Rhett, therefore, has sustained and can sustain no injury by the

468

SUPREME COURT.
Rhett v. Poe.

want of notice to Timberlake. He has lost no security which he
would have kept had such notice been given.
Timberlake was not entitled to notice. He is not discharged of
his obligations to Smith or Rhett by want of notice.
If notice had been given to Timberlake, Rhett would have gained
no advantage, and by its omission he has sustained no injury.
Considering Rhett as a guarantor.
"cPersons whose names are not upon the instrument, or who are
not parties thereto, but have transferred the instrument by delivery,
when payable to bearer, are not within the custom of merchants.
Therefore, a party who, by an independent memorandum guaranties
the payment of a bill, is not as a matter of absolute right entitled to
notice. It is not in general essential to give him notice: but as a
surety (upon general principles) he may be discharged if he can show
that a particular loss or prejudice has accrued to him from the omission to give him notice; but even then the discharge will only be,
it seems, to the extent of the detriment.)
The cases cited are: Warrington v. Furber, 8 East, 242; Swinyeard v. Bow es, 5 Maule and Selw. 62; Holbron v. Wilkins,
1 Barn. and Cress. 10; Van Wort v. Woolley, 3 Barn. and Cress.
439.
In the case of Warrington v. Furber, which was an action against
the gdarantor of a bill of exchange, on which no demand had been
made against the acceptor; he having become bankrupt before the
bill was due, it was held the guarantor was liable.
Lord Ellenborough, in delivering the opinion of the court, says:
,"The same strictness of proof is not necessary to charge the guarantors as would have been necessary to support an action on the bill
itself, where by the law-merchant a denmand upon and refusal by the
acceptors must have been proved in order to charge any other party
upon the bill; and this notwithstanding the bankruptcy of the acceptors. But this is not necessary to charge guarantors, who insure as
it -vere the solvency of their principals; and, therefore, if the latter
become bankrupt and notoriously insolvent, it is the same as if they
were dead, and it is nugatory to go through the ceremony of making
a demand on them."
Gross, J., says: ",The necessity of a demand, notwithstanding the
bankruptcy of the acceptor, in order to charge the drawer or endorser,
is founded solely on the custom of merchants." 8 East, 246.
" The rule in the case of a guarantor," says Chancellor Kent in

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

469

Rhett v. Poe.

his Commentaries, vol. 3, pp. 123, 124, "is not so strict as in that
of mere negotiable paper. The neglect to give notice must have
produced some prejudice to the guarantor: and in the case of absolute guarantee of the payment of a note, no demand or notice is requisite to fix the guarantor."
"And persons who are not parties to the instrument, but dre
responsible if it be not paid, as having guarantied the payment or
.delivered it without endorsement on account of- a debt, are not, it
seems by the custom of merchantg, entitled to the strict observance
of the rule as to presentment. As to such persons a formal presentment may be excused, by showing that the acceptor became insolvent
before the bill fell due; that it would not have been paid if presented; that the defendants were aware of the fact, and that no injury
resulted from the omission." Chitty on Bills, 48 a, ed. 1834. Refers
to the cases already cited.
12 Peters, 503,
In the case of Reynolds et al. v. Douglass et al.,
this court say: " The rule is well settled that the guarantee of a promissory note, whose name does not appear on the note, is bound
without notice where the maker of the note was insolvent at its maturity. That his liability continues unless he can show he has sustained some prejudice by want of notice of a demand on the maker
of the note and non-payment."
In the present case the proof is full that both drawer and endorser
were insolvent before the bill fell due; notice, theref6re, wculd have
been nugatory; and regarding Rhett as a guarantor, Poe was not
bound to give him notice. Considering Rhett, therefore, either as
if his name was-on the bill, or as if he be a guarantor by a separate
instrument, he is not released by the want of notice to Timberlake.
4. This brings me to consider our adversaries' view of their case.
They insist that Timberlake is to be regarded as the drawer of a bill
in the fair course of trade, having funds in Smith's hands at the time,
and being entirely unconnected with himin any contract of partnership.
I will not weary the court by going over the evidence,'but I ask
leave to remark, that this pretence is set up for the first time after the
suit..
[Mr. Wilde here referred to particular parts of the evidence stated
in-the record.]
I desire the court to note in the next place that this attempt to give
to this bill the colour of one drawn in the usual course of trade, upon
funds in Smith's hands, rests solely on the testimony of Timberlake
2R-

470

SUPREME COURT.
Rhett v. Poe.

and Smith. Now, assuredly it is not my purpose to impugn the
testimony of these gentlemen, who are entirely unknown to me; but
I should be false to my trust if I did not remark that their view of
this subject seems to have changed with their change of position.
The illusions of interest are at least as great as those of optics.
I ask the court to remark that Timberlake's effort to make out that
this was a bill drawn upon funds in Smith's hands, is exceedingly
lame. He says the bill -was not drawn for my accommodation, it
being for the purpose of renewing my two bills, &c.; as if being in
renewal, it was necessarily not an accommodation.
[Mr. Wilde here again commented on the evidence.]
Let it be remarked, also, that Timberlake, in his evidence, does
not allude to the agreement between himself and Smith, to which
Smith testifies that if Timberlake paid the drafts for $13,500, he,
Smith, was to pay the draft for $8000. Remark, also, that Timberlake is never shown to have had any capital or funds.
With respect -to Smith's evidence to make this business paper
drawn on funds in his hands. It is in contradiction with his previous
acts and declarations; with his letter to the bank; his declaration to
Adger; with all the earlier proceedings, in which both parties regard.
and declare these bills accommodation papei; the only difference
being that Smith says they were drawn for the accommodation of
Timberlake, and Timberlake that they were drawn for the accommodation of Smith. ,Taking Smith's evidence with all these drawbacks,
and what does it amount to ? He states that these drafts were originally drawn on joint account for joint speculations in cotton and
stocks; that it was subsequently agreed between them that he the
witness would pay the draft for $8000, and that Timberlake would
pay the three drafts amounting to-$13,500. That if Timberlake was
now to pay the three drafts amounting to $13,500, he, the witness,
would owe him the amount of the draft of $8000. Thus we see the
sanie paper assumes, according as the interest of the parties varies,
the character of partnership paper, accommodation paper, or business
paper drawn on actual funds.,
But assuming for the sake of argument that Timberlake drew this
bill, having funds in Smith's hands.
The court will remark, by the testimony of Smith, cc that he did
not assign any particular fund to meet the draft for $8000. That the
proceeds of the cotton sent to Bayard. and Hunter. were realized in
June or July, after he had executed his deed of assignment, a.d that

JANUARY

EERM, 1844.

471

Rhett v. Poe.

he never applied those funds to the payment of Timberlake's draflt
on him."
He further testifies, that the proceeds of the cottonsentto Bayard and
Hunter in Savannah, were passed by him to the credit of R. B. Rh~tt,
(the present defendant,) and went to pay a note with Mr. Rhett's
endorsement discounted at the Bank of Charleston."
Now, if Smith had funds of Timberlake's in his hands, he has sustained no injury by want of notice to Timberlake. And if these very
funds have been passed over to Rhett, he has clearly no right to be
discharged from his liability as guarantor for Smith, on the ground
that injury has been sustained by want of notice to Timberlake.
The ground assumed for insisting on notice to Timberlake, is, that
he has funds in Smith's hands. If he had no funds he is bound
without-notice. If he had funds, then Smith the acceptor as the original debtor, was bound to pay the bill, and Rhett is bound to Poe
as the guarantor of Smith.
The court will observe that as to the drafts for $13,500, drawn by
Timberlake and discounted .by the bank, Rhett became in no manner
liable. He became guarantor to the bank for Smith, by a collateral
security only to the linailed amount of the draft for $8000. Is it not
to be taken then, that he gave this collateral security, relying on the
cotton in the hands of Bayard and Hunter for his indemnity? And
now, how does this matter stand upon the very footing claimed for.it
by the plaintiff in error? What is the justice, equity, and good conscience of the defence, according to our learned adversaries' own
statement of it ?
Smith obtains the proceeds of the cotton from Bayard and Hunter,
and passes them over to Rhett by his general assigurnent. They go.
to pay a note of Smith's in bank, -with Rhett's endorsement. Rhett
having thus received the very fund upon which, as he alleges, the
bill was drawn, insists on being released from his guarantee, becalse
no notice was given to the drawer, Timberlake. But if Timberlake
has funds in Smith's hands, the only ground for entitling him to
notice, then Smith was the principal debtor, both in fact and forn:
and Rhett, having received the very fund, cannot evade his responsibility for Smith.
On the one hand, then, considering this as a bill drawn for Timber.;
lake's accommodation. Could Timberlake recover against .$mith
on his acceptance? Evidently he could not. The case of Sparrow
et al. v. Chisman, 4 Mann. and Ryl. 206, 207, is conclusive on that

472

SUPREME COURT.
Rhett v. Poe.

point. If not, what injury has Timberlake sustained by want of
notice? And if he has sustained no injury, he is not discharged.
if he is not discharged, neither can Rhett be discharged, because the
only claim of Rhett to be released is founded on the alleged release
of Timberlale.
On the other hand, regarding this as a bill drawn by Timberlake
on funds in Smith's hands, accepted by Smith, and the payment of
that acceptance guarantied by Rhett, can Rhett after receiving
under Smith's assignment the funds on which the bill was drawn,
object that the drawer is discharged by want of notice ?
Whatever room for cavil or dispute there may be on the other
points of this case, there are two, in my humble judgment, decisive.
First. The unquestioned facts show due diligence.
Next. These drafts were clearly on joint account; and in a partnership transaction notice to one partner is notice to the other.
Where then is the error in granting the instructions given, or in
fefiusind those refused?
The fourth and fifth instructions the court gave as prayed. They
are out of the question.
The second the court gave with the necessary and lawful limitation, that if the jury believed the facts there stated, there was due
diligence.
The first, it was no error to refuse, for the court merely laid down
the rule with its legal limitation.
Hunt, on the same side, for the defendants in error, said,
The acceptance and note bore date the same day, and became due
the same day; and the whole case turns upon the steps taken to demand payment, and give notice of non-payment of this draft.
Mr. Rhett contends that the note on which he was endorser was
only a collateral security; and if the holder, by any laches, has made
the draft his own by discharging any of the parties, he is paid, and
the collateral note is discharged; and he charges that D. Timberlake
was discharged, as drawer of the bill, by neglect to give him notice
of its non-payment. That, as sureties, the parties to the note are
entitled to their, remedy over against Timberlake, the drawer; and it
was the duty of the holder to give him due notice, in order to fix his
liability; and having neglected to do so, the note is not obligatory.
To ,this defence, the defendant in error answers:
1. .That the note and draft were contemporaneous securities for

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

473

Rhett v. Poe.

the payment of one sum of $8000 on the 11th July, and that the fail.
ure of the acceptor of the bill to pay it at maturity, instantly rendered
all the parties to the note liable; and having received due notice of
the non-payment of the draft, by being notified as endorsers of the
note, they are bound as of 11th July, 1837; and if they desired to
make use of the bill, they were bound topursue their remedy by
paying the note and receiving the draft. No obligation attached to
the holder to do more than demand payment, and on its refusal, to
resorL to his other security for the-debt.
The note was not an ultimate security dependent upon exhausting
the remedies upon the bill, but a concurrent one, and was perfected
by the mere dishonour of the draft by the acceptor.
2. Thai as far as relates to the plaintiff in error, even if he had a
right to require the holder to give notice to Timberlake, and had a
right to the draft, he has sustained no damage, as the said Timberlake was wholly insolvent at the time it became due; and even as
surety he can only claim tb the extent of the loss proved.
3. That, in fact, the holder did use due diligence to fix the drawer,
by using the ordinary means to give him notice:
That the drawer left the state where he transacted business, and
had his domicil when the draft was negotiated, and without giving
any notice to the holder -where notice would reach him; and so,
being out of the realm, he was not entitled to notice.
4. That said Timberlake and Benjamin R. Smith were copartners
in relation to the said draft, and were equally bound to have provided funds for its payment; and a notice and demand upon one
copartner was a notice to both, and so said Timberlake is responsible,
being a copartner, as acceptor of the bill as well as drawer.
5. The said Timberlake was not entitled to notice,and was-liable
on said draft without notice, because he had intercepted and used the
copartnership funds, which ought to have been applied to the payment of that draft.
6. fihe defendant in error also contends, that Mr. Rhett cannot
complain ofdany want of notice, inasmuch as he'has received, as a
preferred creditor of the acceptor, the identical copartnership funds
which ought to have been applied to the payment of this draft. He
got $8000 in first class, and full indemnity in the next, and no account of the proceeds of the cotton.
7. That Timberlake knew that the acceptor had assigned all the
funds of the copartnership prior to the maturity of the draft, and so
2R 2
VOL. ]1-60

474

SUPREME COURT.
Rhett v. Poe.

knew it could, not be paid; and Mr. Rhett was the assignee, and has
received the fund.
And so the defendants in error will contend, that R. Barwell
Rhett was bound, 's endorser, to pay the said note of $8000, and
that the instructions by the court contain the true legal positions
arising out of the cause; and they. deny that the plaintiff in error
was authorized to require the court to state the law on any supposed
case, or any imperfect statement 'of this case. It is eiough if the
court state the rules of law correctly, and leave the jury to apply
them.
That if the court think that there was no other connection between
the note sued upon and the draft of $8000 than this; that the bolder
was to demand payment of -the draft at maturity, and in default of
payment, was authorized to resort to the note immediately-and did
so---:and gave due notice to the parties on the note-and was not.
bound to do more-then the instructions were all immaterial, and the
necessiti qf any notice, and the fact of due diligence as to. the bill,
did not arise in the. case.
1st'Point. The note, even if dollateral, was a security that the bill
was good and would be paid atmaturity, and the moment it was dishonoured the note became absolute and the right of action accrued,
and there is no dispute that the parties to the note were duly
notified.
The holddr of the bill was not obliged to notify the drawer; the
notice to the endorser of the note was sufficient, and they were bound
to look to the parties to the bill and fix them..
The note was a security that the bill would be paid at maturity.
See Trimble v. Thorne, 16 Johns. Rep. 152. The parties to the note
were bound to pay it at maturity in the order of notice.
If.so, then has Poe lost his claim; the neglect to notify is by way
of discount.- It is a. demand independent of the note. Rhett wEs no
party to the bill.
Suppose Rhett had paid the note, could he then recover against
Poe for neglect? What sort of contract? Was -he-agent? The
delivery of-the note with no condition was absolute; the memorandum in pencil does not alter the contract.
The party -who receives a guarantee is not bound .to give notice;
the guarantor must look out for his own safety. 2 Hen.. Bla. 616.
The gumaantor is bound -without notice wherethe drawer is insolvent, unless he proves that some special damage accrued from the

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

475'

Rhett 'V. Poe:

failure to give notice. A distinction is recognised between parties to
a bill and guarantors. 2 Peters, 497.
The same strictness of pfoof is not necessary to charge the guarantor as in an action on tie bill itself. 8 East, 245.
In 6 Vesey, 734, Lord Ellenbor.ough says, there is no obligation'
of active diligence on the part of the creditor, as far as the surety is
concerned. The law-merchant is confined to papers where all are
parties to the bill. 2 Johns. Chan. Ca. 559, 560, 662.
2d Point. Rhett has sustained. no damage, as Timberlake was insolvent.
[Mr. Hunt here referred to several parts of the evidence to showthat he was insolvent.]
The guarantor is only entitled to complain of want of notice where
he has sustained injury, and there only to the extent of the injury.
He guarantees the solvency of the parties to the bill, and if they are
insolvent, he is liable. 12 Peters, 503.
Insolvency is an excuse for no demand being made, where the
claim is prosecuted against a guarantor not on the bill. 9 Serg. and
Rawle, 202; 8 East, 242, confirmed by 2 Taunt. 212.
3d Point. The holder did use due diligence.
[Mr. Hunt here examined the evidence.]
A letter put into the post-office is sufficient. 6 Taunt. 30b;
2 Hen. Bla. 509; 17 East, 385.
If a party has'absconded, no notice is necessary, 4 Mass. 45-53.
It is not necessary to prove that a letter was actually mailed; only
that it was put in the proper'-way of being so. 4 Campb. 194;
4 Bing. 715, (15 E. C. L. R. 125;) 1 Term Rep: 167; 3 Adol.
and El. 193; (30 E. C. L. R. 69;) 1 Term Rep. 294; 5 Johns. 375;
2 Espinasse Rep. 516.
The law considers the place where the bill is drawn as.the resi-'
dence of the drawer. 2 Caines, 127.
In the court below, the judge only decided what constitutes due
diligence in law. The fact. were left to the jury.
4th Point. That Timberlake and Smith were partners, &c.
[Mr. Hu -referred t6 the evidence to show that they'were parners.]
To constitute a partnership, both names need not be used; it-is
enough if the money went to a joint account. 8 Barn. and Cress.
427, (15 E. C. L. R. 257;) 3 Campb. 493; 2 Barn. and Adol, 23,
(22 E,. C. I6. R. 18, 19;) 2 Peters, 197; 20 Johns. 126; 17 Ves.

SUPREME COURT.
Rhett v. Poe.

412; 7 East, 210; 1Campb. 82; 18E.C.L. R. 436; 4Maule and
Selw. 226.
The case in 2 Campb. 309, cited on the other side, only decides
that the note of one partner could not be declared upon as a joint
note; but here the drawer and acceptor were copartners, and it was
one paper, by both partners, for a joint debt. See 3 Campb. 496.
5th Point. Timberlake was not entitled to notice, because he had
inteicepted the funds, &c. I Wash. C. C. R. 461 ; 4 Mason,. C. C.
R. 113; 2 Nott and'McCord, 257, 438.
[The argument upon the remaining points was entirely a comment
upon the evidence.].
Mr. Legare, (attorney-general,) for the plaintiff in error, and in conclusion.
The doctrine contended for upon the other side, puts all the cotton
buyers out of the protection of the law-merchant, if Timberlake was
not entitled to notice. The mistake of the other side is in supposing
'that Rhett considered himself-entitled to notice. But he did not.
In 12 Peters, the court saidthat a guarantor was only entitled to a
notice ira different manner from the acceptor. This is admitted.
In 8 Pick. 426, Chief Justice Parker says, that the contract of guarantee is not clearly settled in the books.
The first and second .instructions prayed for in the court below, by
the counsel of Mr. Rhett, involve the following propositions:
1. Tl' :lhe note was collateral security.
2. That the parties to it were guarantors.
3. That as such, they would be entitled to the bill and all the rights
of the bank.
4. Whatever extinguishes the right of the principal destroys the
guarantee.
5. That by the omission to find Timberlae he was az muciL released as if he had a written receipt.
6. That therefore the guarantor, Rhett, was discharged.
1st and 2d points. It was marked on the note itself that it was
collateral security for the bill, by the agent of the party himself. If
the principal is more bound than the rest, then it is a case of guarantee.
The case in 14 Ves. 159, is a case of distinct collateral security
and not co-suretisbip. The situition of the parties in that case was
very analogous to this, and yet they were not all held principals.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

477

Rhett v. Poe.

Notice must be given to the guarantor unless both parties are bankrupt. This was a guarantee of the bill and not that the acceptor only
should pay it. 2 Taunt. 206. The case in 8East, 245, is examined
in the above.
3d and 4th Points. The guarantor has a right to be subrogated to
the rights of the creditor; and if the principal is released through
negligence, the guarantor is also. 1 Pothier" on Obligations, 365;
1 Bell's Commentaries, 347, 377, 5th ed.
Bankruptcy in the books means something positive, and not loose
talk of insolvency. 4 Johns. Chan. Rep. 123, 140; 11 Ves. 22;
9 Wheat. 680.
5th Point. Was Timberlake discharged? This is the onlydifficult
point in the case.
The burden of proof that due diligence was used, is on the other
side. Doug. 1179 ; 7 East, 231 ; 3 Barn. and Rob. 619 ; Chitty on
Bills, 511, 512.
The least doubt of notice is fatal to the claim. Chitty, as above.
[Mr. Legare here examined the evidence as to the degree of diligence that was used.]
But it is said that Timberlake was not entitled to notice because
he had no funds in the hands of the drawee. The counsel on the
other side attempted to prove that Rhett, had got possession of this
fund under the assignment, after proving that there was no fund
there. But there was a fund. Smith drew for $5000 in February,
1837, and in April for $5000 more, making $10,000; it remained
in his hands. If he dishonoured the previous bills, his funds were
not paid away. Lord Kenyon, in the case cited from Term Reports,
allowed a plaintiff to show that there were no 'funds, and by this
decision produced great difficulty. Half'of Cbitty's book is filed
with cases resulting from this doctrine.
The drawer is entitled to notice, although the bill is for the acceptor. Chitty, 481.
Where there is drawing and re-drawing, there must be notice.
2 Vesey and Beames, 240; Chitty, 480, note-where the rule of Lord
Kenyon is regretted.
It is said that Timberlake had absconded. But this court have
said that absconding means quitting his house in a secret manner.
The case quoted from 2 Peters decides this. But the northem' merchants come to the south to buy cotton and go away when the season
is over. These men cannot be outlawed. The evidence shows

478

SUPREME COURT.
Rhett v. Poe.

that Tiinbrlake resided in New York. [Mr. Legare referred to the
evidence.] The case in 2 Peters, 96, only says that where parties
live in the same town, notice must be left at the residence; but if he
absconds, due diligence only need be used.
As to absconding, see 9 Wheat. 598; 3 Taunt. 130; Chitty on
Bills, 401 ; 1 Lord Raymond, 743, a leading case, where a house
was shut up, which is an act of bankruptcy in England. 9 Serg. and
Rawle, 201 ; Chitty, 486. Chitty says (486) if there is no residence, due diligence must be used. Has it been used in this case?
[Mr. Legare remarked.upon the evidence]
It is said that there was a partnership.
If Timberlake and Smith were partners, all who draw and re-draw
are so. They agreed to purchise stocks, but did not buy them; and
took back the money. Afterwards Timberlake bought stocks on his
own account, and permitted Smith to come in.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
The instrument upon which this suit wds instituted in the Circuit
Court, was, as the aforegoing statement evinces, in form simply a
common promissory note, signed by Benjamin R. Smith, made payalle to William E. Haskell, endorsed by Haskell to Robert Barnwell
Smith alias-Robert Barnwell Rhett, and -by this last individual to
Robert F. Poe, cashier of the Bank of Augusta, the plaintiff in the
action. Such being the nature of the instrument, and it appearing
that the formalities of demand at its maturity, and notice to the
enidorsers have been regularly fulfilled by the holder, a question as
to the justice of a recovery by the latter could scarcely'be suggested,
if the rights and obligations of the several parties shall be viewed as
dependent upon- their relation to the note itself considered as a distinct and separate transaction. Such, however, is'not -precisely the
attitude of the parties to this controversy. It is in proof that there
was held by the plaintiff below, beside this note, a draft for $8000
drawn by Timberlake on the 6th of May, 1837, at sixty days, in
favour of the plaintiff on Benjamin R. Smith, and accepted by
Smith; and farther, that upon the note was writtdn by the plaintiff's
agent, a memorandum in the following woids: " This note is collateral'security for the payment"of the annexed draft of D. Timberlake
on B. R. Smith of $80002 Upon the effect of both these instruments, as constituting parts of 6ne transaction, the questions propounded to the Circuit Court and brought hither for review have

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

479

Rhett v. Poe.

arisen. The farther proofs contained in this record will be adverted
to in the progress of this opinion, as notice of them shall become necessary to explain the instructions prayed for, and those given by the
Circuit Court on the trial of this cause. The second series of instructions, embracing a more extended andvaried survey of the evidence
than is contained in that preceding it, will be first considered. It is
to the first, second, third, and fifth instructions of this second series
that exceptions are taken. To the first proposition affirmed by the
court in this first instructicn, it is difficult to imagine any just ground
of objection on the part of the defendant below, as that proposition
concedes almost in terms the prayer of that defendant. To the second
branch of this instruction it is not perceived that any valid objection
can be sustained; for, although it might have been true that at -the
date of acceptance of Timberlake's draft on Smith for $8000, the
latter had been in possession of $10,000 placed in his hands by Tiberlake, it would not follow under the circumstances proved, or tinder
those assumed in the instruction, that Timberlake as the drawer of
that draft was entitled to-notice. If, as the.instruction supposes, the
acceptances for -$21,500, which Smith had come under for Timberlake, were drawn for the accommodation of the latter, upon the faith
of funds'to be furnished by him for their payment; that the $10,000
had been furnished by Timberlake in part for that purpose, but bad
been withdrawn by him for his own uses prior to the maturity ofthe
draft'for $8000-that he should have interceptea before the maturity
of the draft all the funds against which he knew the acceptances of
Smith were drawn, and that he the -drawer, and Smith the acceptor,
had, before such maturity, become notoriously insolvent, under'such
a predicament the law would not impose the requirement of notice to
the drawer upon the holder. No useful or reasonable end could be
answered by such a requisition. Where a drawer has no right to
expect the "payment of a bill by the acceptor, he has no claim to
notice of non-payment. This is ruled in the -following cases: Sharp"
v. Baily, 9 Barn. and Cress. 44; 4 Mann. and Ryl. 18; Bickerdike v. Bollman, 1 T. Rep. 405 ; Brown v. Meffey, 15 East, 221 ;
Goodall v. Dolly, 1 T. Rep. 712; Legge v. Thorpe, 12 East, 171.
If the $1000 said to have been in the hands of Smith were by the
agreement or uinderstanding between Smith and Timberlake. to be
applied in payment of joint claims against them, and falling due
before the draft for $8000, and had been so applied, it had answered
the sole object for which it had been raised, and could not'in the

SUPREME COURT.
Rhett v. Poe.

apprehension of these parties constitute a fund against which the
draft of $8000 subsequently to become due was drawn. Those
$10,000 were gone, were appropriated by these parties themselves,
Then if after this appropriation, there was, as this instruction assumes,
an arrangement between Timberlake and Smith in respect to the bills
drawn by Timberlake to the amount of $21,500, that he was to put
Smith in funds sufficient to pay $13,500 of the amount just mentioned, which were to become payable before the $8000 draft, and
that on Timberlake's supplying those funds Smith was to pay the
$8000 draft, and Timberlake failed to put Smith in funds to take up
the $13,500, and that the drafts for the same were protested, of which
Timberlake had notice, he, Timberlake, could have no claim to
notice of 'non-payment of the draft for $8000. There could be no
reason- for such a notice from the bolder of the draft. Timberlake
could have had no right to calculate oh the payment of this draft;
on the contrary, he was bound to infer its dishonour. He knew that
payment of the draft for $8000 was dependent upon a condition to
be performed by himself, and he was obliged to know from the notice
of the dishonour of all his bills, that he had not performed that condition, and had thereby intercepted the very funds from which the
acceptances by Smith were to be met. He therefore quoad this draft
had never any funds in the hands of Smith, and consequently, never
had any claim to notice of non-payment from the holder.
The case of Claridge v. Dalton, in 4 Maule and Selw., is strongly
illustrative of the principle here laid down. That was a case in
which the drawer'had supplied, the drawee with -goods which were
still not paid for. To this extent, then, the former. unquestionably
had funds in the hands of the latter; but on the day of payment of
the bill the credit upon which the goods were sold had not expired,
and the court thereupon unanimously ruled that quoad the obligations
of the parties arising upon these transactions, the drawer must be
understood as having no effects in. the hands of the.drawee, and
therefore, not entitled to notice. Th second instruction affirms in
the first place, what must be admitted by all, and what is not understood to be matter of contest here, viz.: that whenever a party to a
bill or note is entitled to notice, such nbtice, if not given him in person, must'be by a timely effort to convey it through the regular or
usual and recognised channels of communication with the party. or
his agent, or with his known residence or place of business. It is to
so much of this "instruction a is applicable to what may amount to

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

481

Rhett v. Poe.

a dispensation from the regular or ordinary modes of affecting parties
with notice, that objection is made; to that portion in which the
court charged the jury, thrt itf they believed from the evidence that
although Timberlake may have resided in New York, that he had
since the autumn of 1834 or 1835 made Augusta his residence, and
that he had removed from Augusta, and out of the state of Georgia
after the bill for $8000 was drawn and before its maturity; that then
due diligence had been used to give him notice of the dishonour of
the bill. It is not considered by this court that this charge in any
:correct acceptation of it trenches upon the legitimate province of the
jury, or transcends the just limits of the authority of the court, or
contravenes any established doctrine of the law. 'Tis a doctrine
generally received, one which is recognised by this court in the case
of the Bank of Columbia v. Lawrence, 1 Peters, 578, that whenever
the facts upon which the question of due diligence arises are ascertained and undisputed,'due diligence becomes a question'of laW; -see
also the. Bank of Utica v. Bender, 21 Wendell, 643. In the case
before us every fact and circumstance in the evidence which was to
determine the residence of the drawer in Augusta, or his abandon-ment of that residence, or his removal from the state of Georgia; the
unsettled and vagrant character of his after-life, the fruitless inquiries
by the notary to find out his residence, the notoriety of his having
neither domicil nor place of business in Georgia, the effort to follow
him with notice of dishonour of his draft, were all submitted to the
jury to be weighed by them. The charge of the court 'should be
interpreted with reference to the testimony which is shown to have
preceded it, upon which, in truth, it was prayed; with- reference,
also,' to the reasonable conclusions which that testimony tended
obviously to establish. Interpreted by this rule, it amounts to this,
and this only, a declaration to the jury that if the evidence satisfied
them of the residence of Timberlake in Augusta at the time of draw-ing the draft, of the certainty and notoriety of his having abandoned
that residence and the entire state before its maturity, leaving behind
him no knowledge of any place, zither of his residence or for the
transaction of his business, satisfied them also of the real but inavailing effort of the notary who protested the draft to discover his whereabout, they ought to infer that due diligence had been practised by
the holder of the draft. In the case of an endorser, with respect to
whom greatest- strictness is always -exacted, it has been ruled that the
holder of a bill is excused for not giving regular notice of dishonour
VoL. I.--61
2 S

482

SUPREME COURT.
Rhett v. Pue.

to the endorser, of whose place of residence he is ignorant, if ha use
reasonable diligence to discover where the endorser may be found.
Thus, Lord Ellenborough in Bateman v. Joseph, 2 Campb. 462,
remarks, c When the holder of a bill of exchange does not know
where the endorser is to be fQund, it would be very hard if he lost
his remedy by not communicating immediate notice of the dishonour
of the bill; and I think the law lays down no such rigid rule. The
holder must not allow himself to remain ina state of passive ignorance,
but if he uses reasonable diligence to discover the residence of the
endorser, I conceive that notice given as soon as this is discovered is
'.due notice within the custom of merchants." See to the same effect
12 East, 433; Baldwin v. Richardson et al., 1 Barn. and Cress. 245;
Beveridge v. Burgis, 3 Campb. 262.
It has been held in Massachusetts, that where, the maker of a promissory note had absconded
before the day of payment, presentment and demand could not be
required of the holder in ordef to charge the endorser: opinion of
Parsons, Clief Justice, in Putnam v. Sullivan, 4 Mass: Rep. 53. In
Duncan, v. McCullough, 4 Serg. and Rawle, 480, it was ruled that
if the maker of a promissory note is not to be found when the note
becomes due, demand on him for payment is not necessary to charge
the endorser, if due diligence is shown in endeavouring to make a'
demand. Hartford Bank v. Stednian, 3 Conn. Rep. 487, where the
holder of a bill who was ignorant of the endorser's residence, sent the
notice to A. who was acquainted with it, requesting him to add to
the direction the endorser's residence, it was held that reasonable
diligence had been used. The measures adopted in this case by the
holder of Timberlake's draft, when viewed in connection with the condition and conduct of the drawer himself, appear to come fully up to
the requirement of the authorities above cited; and, therefore, in the
judgment of this court, affect him -'vith all the consequences of notice,
supposing this now to be a substaitial proceeding upon the draft itself.
Next and last in the order of exception, is the fifth instruction. The
first position in this is given almost literally in the terms of the prayer.
The court proceeds further to charge, that if the insolvency of the
drawer and acceptor were known to each other, and that this bill was
'drawn to pay forpurcbases on joint account, or a transaction in which
they were partners, and the property so purchased had been diverted
by7the drawer to his own use, and that the payment of the bills had
been the subject of private arrangement between the acceptor and
drawer, that then the holder was excused from giving notice of the

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

483

Rhett v. Poe.

non-payment of the bill for $8000. With respect to the exception
taken to this instruction, all that seeibs requisite to dispose of it, is the
remark, that if the drawer of the bill was in truth the partner of the
acceptor, either generally, or in the single adventure *in which the
bill made a part, in that event notice of dishonour of the bill by the
holder to the drawer need not have been given. The knowledge of
the one partner was the knowledge of the other, and notice to the one
notice to the other. Authorities upon this point need not be accumulated; we cite upon it Porthouse v. Parker, 1 Campb. 82, where
Lord Ellenhorough remarks, speaking of the dishonour of the bill in
that case. "cas this must necessarily have been known to one of them,
the knowledge of one was the knowledge of all ;"I.also, Bignold v.
Waterhouse, 1 Maule and SeIw. 259; Whitney v. Sterling, 14 Johns.
Rep. 215; Gowan v. Jackson, 20 Johns. 176. Recurring now to the
first series of instrutions prayed for, we will consider how far the to
propositions presented by them were warranted by the correct principles upon which'the opinion of the courts may be invoked; and how
far the curt was justifiable in rejecting the propositions in.
questio4n,
upon the giound either of want of connection with any particular state
or progress *ofthe evidence-or of support and justification as derived
from the entire testinmony in the cause. It is a settled iuleof judicial
procedure that the courts will never lay down as instructions to a
jury, general or abstract positions, such as are not immediately connected with and applicable to the facts of a cause; hut require'
that every praypr for an instrudtion should be preceded by and based
upon a.statement of facts upon which th questions of law naturally
aud properly arise. It is equally certain that the courts will iot, upon
a view ofthe testimony which is pariial or imperfect, give anistrction which the entire evidence in a cause when developed would forbid. Tested by these rules, the two instructions prayed for in the
first series are deemed to be improper, they are accompanied with no
statement of the testimony as. their proper and immediate foundation;
they are bottomed exclusively upon assumption, and such assumption
too as the testimony taken altogether is believed to contradict. The
court, therefore, properly refused these instructions; for this refusal it
was by no means neceisary that the causes should be assigned, by the
court' in extenso-these are to be seen in the character of the instructions themselves, and in the testimony upon the record. This court
has thus considered and disposed of the several prayers for instruction
in this cause, and of the rulings of the Circuit Court thereupon.

-484

.SUPREME

COURT.

Rhett v. Poe.

Whilst this procedure has been proper with the view of ascertaining
how far the righti of the parties have been affected by the several
questions presented and adjudged in the Circuit Court; it is our
opinion that the true merits of this controversy are to be found within
a much more limited and obvious range of inquiry than that which
has been opened by these questions. The note on which the actiorL
below was instituted, was given as a guarantee for the solvency of
the parties to the bill for $8000, drawn in favour of the plaintiff and
l'or its punctual payment at maturity. Such being the character and
purposes of the note, was it necessary,. in order to authorize a recovery upon it, that every formality, all that strictness should have been
observed in reference to the bill intended to be guarantied, which it
is conceded are indispensable to maintain an action upon a mercantile
paper against a party upon that paper? It is contended that a guarantee is arn insurance of the punctual payment of the paper guarantied; is a condition and a material consideration on which this paper
is received, and therefore that a failure in punctual payment at maturity is a forfeiture of such insurance on condition, rendering the
obligation of the guarantor absolute from the period of the failure.
Whether this proposition can or cannot be maintained to the extent
here stated, the authorities concur in making a distinction between
actions upon a bill or note, and actions against a party who has guajrantied such bill or note by a separate contract. In the former instances notice in order to charge the drawer or endorser is withvery
few established exceptions uniformly required; in the latter the obligation to give notice is much more relaxed, and its omission does not
imply injury as a matter of course. In W¥arrington v. Furbor, 8 East,
242, where the guarantee was not by endorsement of the paper sued
upon, and the action was upon the contract, Lord Ellenborough said,
" that the same strictness of proof is not necessary to charge the guarantees as would have been necessary to support an action on the bill
itself, where by the law-merchant a demand and a refusal by the acceptor ought to be proved to charge any other party on the bill, and
this notwithstanding his bankruptcy. But this is not necessary to
charge guarantees who insure as it were the solvency of the principal, and if he becomes bankrupt and notoriously insolvent, it is the
same thing as if he were dead, and it is nugatory to go through the
ceremony of making a demand upon him." Le Blanc, Justice, says.
inthe same case, ",there is no need of the same proof to charge a
guarantee as there is a party whose name is on a bill of exchange; for

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

485

Rhett v. Poe.

it is sufficient as against the forfer t6 show that the holder c6uld-not
have obtained the money by making demand of it." The same doctrine maybe found in Philips v. Astling et al., 2 Taunt. 205. Sotoo,
Lord Eldon in the case of Wright v. Simpson, 6 Ves. 732, expresses
himself in terms which show his clear understanding of the position
of a collateral guarantee or surety, his language is "cas to the case of
principal and suretyi in general cases, I never understood that as between the obligee and -the surety there was an obligation to active
diligence against the principal, but the surety is a guarantee, and it is
his business to see whether the principal pays and not that of the creditor." The case of Gibbs v. Cannon, 9 Serg. and Rawle, 198, was
an action against a guarantor who was not a party on the note, upon
his separate contract. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania decided
in this case, that provided the drawer and endorser of the note were
solvent at the maturity of the note, notice of non-payment should be
given to the guarantor, and that the latter under such circumstances
may avail himself of the want of notice of non-payment, but it places
the burden of proving solvency, and of injury flowing from want of
notice upon the guarantor. The last case mentioned on this point, ard
one which seems to be conclusive upon it, is that of.Reynolds v. Douglass et al., 12 Peters, 497, in which the court establish these propositions.
1st. That the guarantor of a promissory note, whose name does not
appear upon the note, is bound without notice, where the maker of th6
note was insolvent at its maturity, unless he can show that he has
sustained some prejudice by want of notice of a demand on the maker,
and of notice of non-payment:
2d. If the guarantor can prove he has suffered damage by the neglect to make the demand on the maker, anid.to give notice, he can
be discharged only to the extent of the damage sustained. Tried by
the principles ruled in the authorities-above cite'd, and especially by
that from this court, in 12 Peters, it would seem that this case should
admit of neither doubt nor hesitancy,. -The note on which the action
was brought was given as a guarantee for the payment of the bill for
$8000, as is proved and indeed admitted on all hands. 'It is the distinct and substantive 'agreement by which the gharantee of the bill
was undertaken. It is established by various and uncontradicted
facts and circumstances in the cause, and finally by the solemn admissions of Timberlake the drawer and Smith the acceptor of the bill,
both of whom have-testified in the cause, thdt at the maturity of the
2s.2

486

SUPREME

COURT.

Adams et al. v. Roberts.

bill they were both utterly insolvent; that Timberlake was probably
so before the commencement of these transactions, and that Smith
before the maturity of the bill had made an assignment of every thing.
he had claim to, for the benefit of others. and, amongst the creditors
named in that assignment, providing for the plaintiff in error as ranking high amongst the preferred class.
Under such circumstances to have required-notice of the dishonour
of the bill would have been a vain and unreasonable act, such as the
law cannot be presumed to exact of any person. Upon a review of
the whole case, we think that the judgment of the Circuit Court should
be affirmed.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard oil the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of South
Carolina, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
It is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment
of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed with costs and damages at the rate of six per centum.per
annum.

AUSTIN L. ADADIS AND ANN C. HARDING, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.
JULIA Ro ETS.

On the trial of a petition for freedom, a paper was produced, which was a copy
of a deed of manumission, executed in December, 1801, by the owner of cerrain slaves in Virginia (and amongst them, the mother of the petitioner, to
become free on the 1st of January, 1814,) to which paper the names of two
persons were attached as witnesses. In January, 1802, the grantor went into
court in Fairfax county, Virginia, and ordered it to be recorded; but it did
not appear whether the two witnesses were then with, him or not. The
grantor resided in the District of Cclumbia.
Under these circumstances, and under the statute of Virginia, passed December
17, 1792, a prayer to the court to instruct the ,jury that the petitioner was
not entitled to freedom was properly refused.
The mother of the petitioner becoming free on the tst of January, 1814, the exact
time of the birth of the petitioner, whether before or after that day, was a fact
for the jury; and a prayer to the court which would have exctuded the consideration-of that faLt was properly refused.

