JANUARY TERM, 1844.

29

Gwin v. Breedlove.

ment be entered against Humphreys alone, as the survivor, and that
the mandate of this court direct the Circuit Court to enter judgment
for the plaintiff against -enjamin G.Humphreys alone as the survivor.
.March12th, 1844.

Wujiux M. GwiN v. JAis W.

B-REpDLOVE.

A statute of the stale of Mississippi, passed on the 15th of February, 1828, provided that if a sheriff should fail to pay over to a plaintiff money collected by
execution, the amount collected, with 25 per cent. damages, and 8 per cent.
interest, might be recovered against such sheriff and his sureties, by motion
before the court to which such execution was returnable.
A marshal and his sureties cannot be proceeded against, jointly, in this-summary way, but the must be sued as directed by the act of Congress.
But the marshal himself'was always liableto an attachment, under which he
could be compelled to bring'the money into court; and by the process act.of
Congress, of May, 1828, was also liable, in Mississippi, Io have a judgment
entered against himself by motion.
This motion is not a new suit, but an incident of the prior one; .and hence,
residence of the parties in different states need not be averred in order to
give jurisdiction -to the c6urL
Such parts only of the laws of a state as are applicable to the courts of the
United States are adopted by the process act of Pongress; a penalty is not
adopted, and the 25 per cent. damages cannot be enforced
A marshal who receives bank-notes in satisfaction of an execution, when the
return has not been set aside at the instance of the plaintiff, or amended by
the marshal himself, must account to the plaintiff in-gold or silver; the Constitution of the United States recoguising only gold and silver as a legal
tender.

This case was brought'up by writ of error, from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the southern district of Mississippf, nd
arose upoh the following statement of facts.
At some period prior to the 13th day of February, 1839, James
W. Breedlove, the defendant in error, had recovered a judgment in,
the Circuit. Court of the United States for the southern district of
Mississippi, against certain persons there, for the sum of "$12,976,
with interest at the rate of 8 per cent. per annum, from the 24th of
May, 1838, until paid; and on the'said 13th of February, an execuion was issued upon the judgment, and placed in the hands of
Gwin, the marshal. The sum of $5000 was collected in anexcep-

_30

S'UPREME COURT.
Gwin v. Breedlove.

tionable money; and paid 'over to the plaintiff; the balaAce was
received in'niofes of the Commerci-al Bank of Vicksburg, and Planter's
Bank of Mississippi, which the plaintiff refused to receive.
At the November terxii, 1839, of' the Circuit Court of the United
States, Breedlove moved for a judgment against Gwin, the marshal,
for the sum of $'7976,'being the balance due to the plaintiff on the
execution.. This motion was .made under a statute pa sed by the
legislature cf Mississippi on the 15th day of February, 1828, which
had been -adopted in-the practice of theCircuit Cont by a rule of
*that court. The, statute provided, (Howard and; Hutchinson, 296,)
that.if the shefiff should fail to pay, on demand by the plaintiff,
money collected:by executi6n, sunh sheriff and his sureties should be
liable.to pay to the plaintiff the whole, amount of .money so collected, together .with 25 per cent. damages thereon, with interest
at the rate of 8 per ce'nt per annum, to be recovered by motion
before the court to which ]such execution-is maie returnable. The'
statute further provided.for'a jury, if the sheriff should deny that-the.
money was collected by him. In case the sheriff failed to return, an
execution on the return day thereof, (Howard and Hutchinson, 298,)
ihe plaintiff-was allowed to recover judgment against the' sheriff and
* his sureties, with 5 per cent. damages, by motion .before the court.
It was also declared to be a misdemeanor for the sheriff to refuse to
pay over mo~iey which he had collected, and punishable on conviction, by removal from office.. Howard.and Hutchinson, 299.
The reasons filed in stipport of the motion were, that the marshal
had made the money and -failed, or refused, to pay it over to the

plaintiff
Gwin demurredto the motion.; ibut-the.demurrer'being overruled,
he filed four pleas. In the first two, he denied having received money. In the-last two, he alleged that he had 'collected and received
notes of the Planter's Bank of the, State of Mississjppi, and of the
Commercial and Rail Road Bank of Vicksburg, due and payable on
demand, when said banks were paying gold and silver on all their
notes payable on demand; wbich notes, so collected and received,
were 'collected and received without any instructions from the plaintiff or his attorney that gold br silver would be.required, and at a time
when the bank-notes receive& were the current circulating .medium;
and the same were tendered to the attorney of the plaintiff, before the
suspension of specie payments .byany or either of-said banks-all of
which said bank-notes said defendant had always been ready and

JANUARY TERMo 1844.

31

Gwin v. Breedlove.

willing, and was then ready and willing, to pay over to the plantiff
or his 'attorney.
The plaintiff joined issue upon *the first two pleas, and replied,
specially, to-the last two, thatdthe defendant was, previous to the reception of the notes, instructed, that gold or silver would be required
of him. Issue was joined upon the last two replications. Evidence was offered at the trial, that the attorney of the plaintiff,
Breedlove, told the marshal frequently, before the money-was collected, that specie would be required; 'that he had demanded -the
money of the marshal, who refused to pay him; that the marshal
never tendered him any bank-notes, and that the notes of those
banks, b'efore their suspefision, were received in the community
everywhere am'spedie, .and by. the sheriffs and officers in collectioft of
executions.

The execution was issued on'the 13th ofFebruary, and the banks
suspended specie payments on the 15th or 22d of March, i839.
The counsel for the.defendant prayed'the court to'instrubt the jury
as follows:

1. That if the jury believe from the evidence that bills of,exchange
and bank-notes were received by the marshal, and not gold or silver,
then the jury will find the issues on'the first' and second pleas in
favour of the defendant.
2. If the jury believe that the instructions givei to the marshal
were intended to authorize the marshal to collect gold or silver,,or
its equivalent, and he collected bank-notes 'which were equivalent to
gold or silver, then theytshould find the issue for the defendant.
3. And that if they find that the marshal received bank-notes or
bills of exchange and not money in specie, which the plaintiff refused
to receive as money, then they must find the issues for the defendant,
as the issue is, whether he received and collected money or not.
The first and third of which charges, the court refused to give, but
gave the second charge to the jury; to which refusal tb give the first
and third charge§, the defendant excepted.
The jury found for the plaihtiff.
Walker, for Gwin, the plaintiff in error.
C. Cox, for the defendant.
Walker made the following.points:
1. That the statute of Mississippi had, not been stricty pursued.
2. That it did not apply to marshals of the United States.

-

32

SUPREME COURT.
Gwin v. Breedlove.

3. That there is a want of jurisdiction, inasmuch as the record
does not show, in .any part of it, that Breedlove was not a citizvn of
Mississippi.
1. The statute is highly penal in i6 character; and, therefore, like
all other penal statutes, must be construed strictly. It provides
(Howard and Hutchinson, 296) two remedies against sheriffs; one
for not paying over the money which they may have collected, and
the other for neglecting to levy the execution. The motion below
was under the first head, which was-an erroneous proceeding, because
bank-notes are not money. The return states the collection to have
been in bank-notes; but, if they had been notes of a mercantile firm,
it would clearly not have been money. The one is no more money
than the other. The statute is so highly penal that a refusal on the
part of the sheriff to pay, is declared to be a misdemeanor, (page 299,)
and punished by removal from office.
The agreement of the sheriffto receive any thing but money, does
not bind the plainjfl. 5 Howard, 246. Where the sheriff returned
that he had received bank bills, it was not considered a legal return
or binding on the plaintiff, and a neq execution w~s awarded.
5 Howard, 621. A sheriff cannot take a negotiable note and return
the" execution satisfied. 1, Cowen, 46. The payment must be. in
cash. 9 Johnson, 263.. There beirg no money received, the remedy
pursued ought to have been for omitting to collect themoney. Howard and Hutchinson, page 642, sec.-42.
2. The statute does not apply to marshals. It was passed on 16th
February, 1828, The process act of Congress was passed on 19th
May, 1828; but no rule of court has ever adopted the state law.
How came marshals, then, to be under the state law? Their duties
are pointed out by acts of Congress, (Gordon's Digest Laws of the
United States, articles 610-611,) and a party injured may sue on
their bond and recover damages legally assessed. But the sheriffs,
under the state law, are subject also to a.penalty of 25 per cent. in
addition: Can the marshals be legislated by a state into this resptnsibilit ? The sheriffs are also to be removed fiom office: Can a
state law require the President of the United States to remove a marshal? Ifnot, where can the linebe drawn?
The words in the act of Congress of 1828 are borrowed from the
act of 1792, and direct that the process at common law used in
Mtate courts should be.adopted in thie courts of the United States.
But the process in the original suit below had been exhausted. The

JANUARY TFRM, 1844.

33

Gwin v. Breedlove.

motion against the marshal was a new proceeding, and not a part of
the process of the other case.
10 Wheat. 1, 32; 6 Peters, 658;- 7 Cranch, 654; 1 Howard, 300.
2 Dallas) 396, that attachment laws of states are not included
5 Mason, 26 , intheprocessact.
12 Peters, 300,
The courts of the United States do not adopt state, criminal, or
penal laws; 17 Johnson, 1, 4.
3. Breedlove is not shown in the record to have been a citizen of
another state. This court has decided that, as the courts of the
United States are of limited jurisdiction, it must appear on the face
of the record. 10 Wheat. 192; 2 Cranch, 9; 2 Bald. C. C. R. 275;
13 Peters, 45; 4 Wash. C. C. R. 32.
C. Cox,for defendant, argqed:
1. That it was no*ground of exception to defendant's motion; that
it does not show him to be a citizen of a state other than Mississippi
in all other respects it is formal.
2. The plaintiff was accountable on his -return, and on-the facts
established by the yerdict,-for the amount of $7000 in money.
3. The statute of Mississippi is applicable to the present case.
.1. The question of jurisdiction was settled by the original judgment;.and a ministerial officer of-the court cannot be permitted to
raise the objection.- After an appearance, the objection cannot be
made. 3 Peters, 459; 5 Howard, 432; 9 Peters, 156.
2. Issue was joined below upon the question whether the marshal
received notice that coin would be required, and decided against
him. The plaintiff below was, therefore, entitled to consider the
marshal's return as of money. A tender of bank-notes is good, unless
objected to. 10 Wheat. 333.
3. The act of Congress of 1828 was subsequent to the statute of
Mississippi. -Process means the proceedings until the end of the
suit, the posse.'sion of the fruits of the judgment. 10 Wheat. 1, 51.
The statute of Mississippi ws adopted by rule of court.
The bond of the marshal is a cumulative remedy. All courts have
authority over their officers, and the remedy for injury is by motion.
There is'nothing unusual in the proceeding. All amercements pre
penal. In 9 Peters, 156, a judgment was entered on motion and
refused t6 be re-opened.
VOL. R.-5

SUPREME COURT.
Gwin v. Breedlove.

Walker, in reply.
If the return of the marshal was that the execution was satisfied.,
was it not an end of that suit ?.
No matter who makes .the question of jurisdiction, the court
will always notice it. The original judgment does not settle it,
because the proceediogs there do not make the necessary averment.
The case in 9 Peters does not apply: there is no case where the
penal laws of a state have been applied to marshals.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The writ of error in this case is prosecuted by the former marshal
to reverse a judgment recovered against him by motion in the Circuit
Court of the United'States for the district of Mississippi. The proceeding in this form, is founded on a lawof that state governing sheriffs; as will be seen by the statement of the reporter.
The first objection raised on behalf of the plaintiff in error is, that
it does not appear on the record, that Breedlove was a citizen of d
different state from the defendant; and therefore it is insisted the
court below had no jurisdiction as between the parties. As this
does not appear, in an ordinary case jurisdiction wouid be wanting.
On the other hand, it is contended that the motion against the ministerial officer of the court for not perfqrming his duty, was an incident;
and part of, the proceeding. in the suit of Breedlove against Marsh
and others, in which the execution issued; and that no question of
jurisdiction can be raised.
The motion for a judgment being a proceeding according to the
statute of Mississippi, it is also'objected that Congress by the act of
1806 (ch. 31,) had provided a complete and exclusive remedy on
marshal's bonds by suit; but if it was otherwise; still, the additional
remedy furnished by the state law when substituted, must, be treated
as an independent suit, in like manner as an action on the marshal's bond, and the residence of the parties be such as to give -the
federal court jurisdiction. 4
These propositions are so intimately blended that it is most convenient to consider thein together.
We think it true beyond doubt, that if the bond had been proceeded on against the marshal and his sureties, it could not have
been done by motion, according to the state practice prescribed by
the statute of Mlissigsippi; buit the proceeding must haye been accord

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Gwin v. Breedlove.

ing to the act of Congress. Yet befdr the act of 1806 was passed,
and ever since, the common law remedy by attachment has been the.
most usual to coerce-the marshal to perform-his various duties; and
among others, to bring into court moneys collected on executions.
So in the state courts, nothing is more common than to proceed'by
attachment against the sheriff, instead of resoring to a summary motion, for judgment against him by force of a statute, where he withholds moneys collected. The marshal's bond is for twenty thousapd
dollars;. the sureties are bound to this amount only; and if no oter
remedy existed save on the bond, after the penalty was exhausted,
he might set the court 'at defiance: the marshal could also be sued
in assumpsit; by the plaintiff in the execution. It has therefore never
been true, that a suit on his bond, governed by the acts of Congress,
furnished the exclusive remedy as against the marshal himself; and
we think that Congress intended by the new process'act of. 1828, to
add the cfumulative -remedies, then existing by statute, in the new
states, where they could be made to apply, because they were more
familiar to the courts and country, and better adapted to the certaiia
and speedy adminiistration of justice. In our opinion, the act of
Mississippi authorizing a judgment by motion, against a sheriff for
failing to fay over moneys collected on execution, to the party on
demand, or into court at the return day, was adopted by tfie act of
1828, and"does apply in acase like the present, as a mode of proceeding in the courts of the United States, held in.the district of
Mississippi; and could be enforced against the marshal in like manVer it could be against a sheriff in a state court.
The same facts that justified the judgment against the goods, &c.,
of the marshal, would have. authorized an attachment against h1
person; operating even .morehastily-than a capias ad satisfaciendum;
founded on a judgment; and thereford no objection to this means
of coercion can be perceived, that did not apply with still more
force to-the old mode by attachment. The latter remedy was ner-deemed an independent suit, but a means to compel the ministerial
officer of the court to perform his duty, sothat the plaintiff should
have the fruits of his judgment; and the same end is attained by
the new remedy under the-state law; each, is an incident of the suit
between the plaintiff aid defendant to the execution; of which the
proceeding against the officer is part; and to that suit the question
of jurisdiction must be referred: It follows the officer had no right
to raise the question.

26'

SUPREME COURT.
Gwin v. Breedlove.

The next inquiry is, to what extent does the statute of Mississippi
apply to the courts of the United States held there ?
It is contended for the defendant in error, that the act of Congress
of 1828, did intend, and could only have -intended, f- adopt the
state law entire; that when the process and modes of proceeding
were adopted, the 'provision carried with it the penalties prescribed
to enforce their performance; to recognise part -as governing the
practice of the federal courts, and reject other parts, as not applicable to them,, would br&.k up the whole system. That so doing is
a delicate, and difficult duty, experience has taught us; it is impossible, however, 4to do, otherwise in many cases. That of Amis v.
Smith, 16 Peters 303; was ,an instance. It also came up from
Mississippi. By the laws of that state, the sheriff is commanded to
take a forthcoming bond for the delivery of property on the day of
sale, levied on by virtue of an execution; if the bond is forfeited for
not delivering the property, it operates as a new judgment against
the defendant to the execution, and als6 against the -sureties to the
bond; and no writ of error is afterwards allowed to ieverse the
original judgment. Pursuant- to the laws of Missisiippi a delivery
bond had been taken by the marshal; it was forfeited, and then the
defendant prosecuted a writ of error to this court to, reverse the
judgment on Which the execution issued. It was held here, that
that part of the state law authorizing the delivery bond to be given,
was adopted by the act of 1828, and that a new execution might
issue on it; but the part cuffing-off the writ of error.must be rejected.
*An other instance will' be given, which is presented by the' statute
of Mississippi, on which the present motion against the marshal was
founded. The 27th and 28th sects. enacts, that if the sheriff shall
make a false return on an execution or other process, to him directed,
for every such offence he shall pay a fine of $500, one half to the
plaintiff, and the other half .o the use of the literary fund, recoverable by motion. If the fabt that the retina is false does not appear
of record, the court shall immediately empannel a jury to try such
fact, and on its being found, proceed to assess the fine.
The recovery of the penalty, could with quite as much propriety
nave been on conviction by indictment as on a summary motion;
and .in neither mode can it b'e plausibly contended that the courts
of the Uinited States could inflict the penalty on its marshal; the
motion and assessment of the fine, being distinct from thd process
and mode of proceeding in the cause of which' the execution was

3ANUARY

TERM, 1844.

8'

Gwin v. Breedlove.

part, on which the false return was made. This being an offence
against the state law, the courts of the state alone epuld punish its
commission; the courts of the United States having no power to execute the penal laws of the individual states.
A judgment below, for 25 per cent. damages -was given against
the marshal for f*lng to pay over the debt collected; the penalty
amounted to $1750. The-motion for judgment was founded on the
25th section of the act; it declares judgment on motion shall be
rendered against the marshal, for the money collected, with legal
interest: and also, for 25.per cent. damages on the amount.
This is just as much the infliction of a penalty, as if a fine had
been imiosed under the 27th and 98th sections for a false return;
and for the-same reasons was beyond the competency of the Circuit
Court; and for so much the judgment cannot stand.
We next come to the question wlether the marshal is rendered
liable by his return, and the proofs, and pleadings.
By the state statuie he was allowed to contest the fact by pleading to the motion, that he had not received the money.. He first
demurred to the written grounds of the motiQn; being in the nature
of a declaration. -Thedemurrer was over-ruled, and th. defendaht
had leave given to plead over. He pleaded 1st, That he,did not
receive or collei# on said execution the moneys -specified in the motion. The 2d plea is to the same effect, but for- the larger sum,
including a bill of exchange, about which there is no controversy.
'3d. That he received and collected the notes of the Commercial
and Railroad Bank of Vicksburg, and the Planter's Bank-of Mississippi, due and payable at said:banks; and which were paying'specie
on their notes on demand; that is on the 12th day of lvarch, 1839;
which notes were collected and received without any instructions
from the plaintiff or his attorney that gold or silver would be required; and at a time when the bank-notes were the current circulating medium; -and that the same on the day aforesaid were tendered
to the attorney of the plaintiff before the suspension of spdcie payments by the banks-all of which bank-notes he has always been
ready, and is yet ready and willing to pay over to the plaintiff. The
4th plea is the same in substance.
On the first two pleas issues were joined to the country: To' the
other two, the plaintiff replied-That previous to the reception of
the bank-notes, the defendant was instructed that gold and silver.
would be required upon the execution; and issues were tendered to.
D

38

SUPREME COURT.
Gwin v. Breedlove.

the country; which were joined on the single point, whether the
marshal had been instructed that gold or silver would be required.
Two instructions were asked on behalf of the marshal and refused-First,
" If the jury believe from the evidence that bills of exchange and
bank-notes were received by the marshal, and not gQld and silver,
then the jury will find the issues on the first and second pleas in
favour of the defendant?'
3d. "And that if they find that the marshal received bank-notes
or bills of exchange, and not money in specie, which the plaintiff
refused to receive as money, then they must find the issues for the
defendant; as the issue is, whether he received and collected money,
or not."
The 2d instruction asked was given, and need not be noticed.
The return of the*marshal was, that he had received on the execution, bank-notes due on demand and payable in specie-on the
two banks, named in the return, amounting to $7000-the subject
of the present motion.
No question is, or can be raised, on the two last issues; they were
found against the defefidant on the proof, that he had been instructed,
that nothing but gold or silver would be received in satisfaction.
The merits of the case therefore turn on the two instructions refused;
they are referable to the facts giving rise to the instructions; the
facts briefly are, that the marshal was-instructed to collect specie on
the execution; he failed to do so, and'took bank-notes from the
debtor to the amount of $7000 in lieu of specie. A few days
after the .notes were received, one of the banks at which a part
of them were payable suspended specie payments, and its- notes
thereby'became depreciated in value. The instructions Taise the
question, who shall bear the loss: If the officer's return is treated
as a nullity, then it will fall on M4arsh and others, defendants to the
execution; if the marshal's offer to deliver the n6tes to Breedlove's
attorney, and his plea of tender had been good, then the execution
creditor must have sustained the loss--but failing in these grounds
of defence the officer must bear it himself.
By the Constitution of the United States (section ten) gold or
silver coin made current by law can only be tendered in payment of
debts Nevertheless, if the debtor pays bank-notes, which are rec'eived by the creditor in discharge bf the contract, the payment is
just as valid as if gold or silver had been paid. Had Marsh paid

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

89

Gwin v. Breedlove.

his'erdditor Breedlve in the manner he did the marshal, then there
can be no doubt Breedlove could-not have treated the payment as a
an execution on his judghave issued
nullity, and on this assumptionagain
in speci6.
payment
ment,and enforcid
By the writ of execution the marshal was, commanded to collect
so many dollars.; this meant gold or -silver of course: And thd"
court 'of errors and appeals of Iississippi, in the case of Nutt v.
Fulgham, .(5How. R. 621,) ordered the return of a,Aheifi like the
one before us, to be struck out, on motion of the plaintiff in the suit.
'That court says: " The return of the sheriff, that he took the Union
bank-notes. is not a legal return; and the plainiff is not bound by
it, uniess the plaintiff had agreed to receive that kind.of money.ornotes in payment; and no such agreement appears.
In the case before us no motion was madeto strike out the return
oft part of the plaintiff BreedloVe; .nor did the marshal ask leave to
alter his return, stating-he had not made the money: the three parties
interested, treated the payment as a v'alid discharge. of the judgment
against Marsh; and we think, for ,the purposes of this motion, at
least, it must be so 'deemed. Gwin, the marshal, did.receive banknotes in payment, and intended they should be taken indischarge
of the execution; the record "throughout shows he did so receive
theni-and, that they were received as money: Still, he conul. only
pay into court gold or silver, if required by the execution creditor to
do so; and therefore he rah the risk of converting the notes into
specie when he took them; having. in.curred the risk, the -marshal
must bear the loss of depreciation. We apprehend this view of an
officer's responsibility who collects bank-no.tep, is in conformity to
the general practice of the courts, and bollecting officers, throughout

the country.
This court therefore reverses so much of the judgment of the Circuit CQurt, as adjudged the plaintiff in error Gwin, to, pay the twenityfive per cent. damages, on the amount recovered againsthim :-And.
affirms, the residue of said judgment.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.
i am unable to concur with the majority of the court in their
opinioi, just announced. .'Tis.my opinion, that the judgment of the
Circuit Court- should. have been wholly reversed.
Congress, by express, enactment 'have defined fhe 'duties and
responsibilities of the marshals, and prescribed the modes in which

40

SUPREME COURT.
Gwii

v. Breedlove.

they shall be enforced. These express regulations, designed for the
government of the peculiar officers of the federal courts, cannot, I
think, be varied or controlled by rules established by the states for
the conduct of their respective ministerial agents; but must be of
paramount authority.
The laws of Mississippi, therefore, denouncing penalties against
the misconduct of sheriffs, and directing the manner o enforcing
them, cannot go,-em this case. Should it be conceded, however,
that the laws of Mississippi concerning shefrifih could have effect in
this motion agaipst the marshal, it seems obvious, to my mind, that
the appropriate remedy under the state law for an act like that complained of, has not, in this case, been adopted. The alleged delinquency in the marshal, made the foundation of this motion, a
delinquency identically the same for which a like proceeding is
authorized against a sheriff, is the refusal to pay over money actually
made and'in his handsi and collected in satisfaction of an execution.
For such a refusal, a peculiar penalty, the very same sought'and
adjudged by the court in this instance, is provided. By the return
of the marshal, relied on in proof by the plaintiul it is conclusi'vely
shown, that the money which the officer was commanded to make,
had iiever neen received ;. but that he had received, in part, that
which was not money, and which had never been converted into
money, and which the plaintin; in the execution, would never have
received in lieu of money. Nay, the oral evidence introduced by
the plaintiff -,asbrought in to prove, that the marshal, in opposition
to the plaintiff's positive iustructicns, had received that which was
not money, excluding, unon this proof as well as upon the return,
every inference that money had been actually received in satisfaction
of the process in his hands. A refusal or ai omission to levy or to
return an execution, the statutes of Mississippi designate as different
and distinct offences, and the conduct of the marshal as shown in
the proofs, approaches more nearly to either of these than it does to
the misfeasance alleged in the notice, and, for which, the court has
awarded a penalty against him, although the fact charged is positively disproved by all the testimony, as it is also by the plaintifs
replications to thd defendant's 3d and 4th pleas. But whether or
not the conduct of the marshal can in literal strictness be denominated a failure or refusal to levy or to return an execution, it is surely
not a failure or refusal to pay ove, money actually levied, and, therefore, theproceeding, under colour of the statute of Mississippi3 is nor

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Gwih v. Breedlove.

the proceeding appropriate t6 the abt of the officer, however that act
maybe characterized., This is, too,a statutoryproceeding, and-hould
strictly conform to the power which authorizes it. It cannot be extended either to modes or objects not clearly embraced within the
termis of that adhority. It bannot, therefore, in any event, warrant
the judgment now proposed, as that is clearly for .a penalty wholly
different from the one imposed by the law of Mississippi, for an
offence such as is assumed by the court to have been committed in
this instance. Surely the law of Mississippi either should or should
not govern this'case.
Again, I.do not think that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is
made out ag between the parties to the. judgment. The motion on
which it is founded is neither process nor a mode of proceeding in
the suit between Breedlove and Marsh and Company, nor can it be
deemed an execution or process or'proceeding upon or regularly incident to the judgment between those parties. IVis a distinct and sibstantive and original-.proceeding against a third person no party to the
controversy. A right of action is claimed against this third person
for his own acts or delinquencies, independently of the contract or
controversy between the parties to the judgment. In his character of
officer of the court, he would, doubtless, be amenable to the authority
it possesses to supervise the conduct qf its own officer, and to secure
the enforcement of its owni judgments; an attachment would, therefore, lie against him, to effect, these ends of justice. He would, also,
be liable upon his official bond as marshal; because the judicial act
confers a right of action thereon, without restriction as to-citizenship,
on all persons who may be injured by a breach of the condition of
that bond. But if a farther or different recourse is sought against the
marshal, one which may be supposed to arise neither from the inherent power'of the court over its peculiar officer, oi its judgments;
then it'is presumed that those whoseek such recourse, must show
their right as arising out of thdir character to, sue in the federal courts;
they must show themrselves by regular averment to be citizens of'a
state other than that of him whom they seek to implead. The present
case closely resembles that of Course et al. v. Stead et ux., 4 Dall. 22,
in which it was ruled that the want of a proper description of parties
in a supplemental suit was not cured by a reference to the original
suit.

The judgment should, I think, be reversed.
D2
VoL. 1.-6

42

SUPREME COURT.
Gwix v. Breedlove,
ORDER,.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
fiom the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration -whereof,
It is now here ordered and adjudged by this court; that so much of
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause as adjudges
William M. Gwin, the plaintiff in error, to pay 25 per cent. damages
thereon b%, and the same is hereby reversed and- annulled, and that
the residue of the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause,
be in all respects: and the same is hereby affirmed.

