JA.NUARY

TERM, 1844.

-591

Pollards Lessee v. Files.

having selected, dnd been driven from it by lawless 'forces, her title
remains unimpaired. She has not slept on her rights, but from 1832
to 1837 has made continuous and repeated applications to the government officers to assert her Tights to said land, and'through them
to the government itself in 1837. She has never abandoned her
claim, but has insisted on: her rights under the treaty.
In our opinion, -the plaintiff not only has a right to the land in question under the treaty, but one -whichit protects and guaranties against
all the -acts which have been done to her prejudice; and we are much
gratified to find'in the able and sound opinion of the Supreme Court
of Tennessee, on the Cherokee treaty of 1819, and the Supreme
Court of Alabama on this treaty, a train of reasoning and conclusions
which we very much approve, and- are -perfectly in accordance 'with
our opinion in this case. These cases are reported in 2 Yerger,.144,
432; 5 Yerger, 323; 5 Porter; Alabama 'Rep. 330, 427.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama is therefore reversed.
ORDER.'

This cause came on to be heard' on e transcript of the record,
from the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama, and was argued by
counsel, on consideration wherebf; It is now here ordered and adz
judged by this court, that the judgmeht of the said Supreme Court
of the state of Alabama in this cause be, and the same is hereby 'reversed with costs; and that this-causd be,'and the sameis hereby re
manded to 'the said Supreme Court of the state of Alabama, that further proceedings pnaybe had therein in conformity to the opinion of this
court, and as to law and justice shall appertain.

LESSEE OF JoHN. POLLARD, WI LIAA PoLuARD, JOHN FOWLER AN
HARRIET HIS WIFE, HENRY P. ENSIG AND PHEBE HIS WIFE, GEOR E
HU'odINS AND LOUISA 'HIS WIFE, JOSEPH CASE AND ELIZA. HIS WIFE,
PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOSEPH F. FILES, DEFENDANT.
It is the settled doctrine of the 3'udicial department of th> government, that the
treaty of 1819 with Spain ceded to the United States no territory west of the
river Perdido. It had already b~en acquired under the-Louisiana treaty.
Ia the interval betxween the Lbuisiana treaty and the time when the United

592

SUPREME COURT.
Pollard's Lessee v. Files.

States took possession of the country west of the Perdido, the Spanish government had the right to grant permits to settle and improve by cultivation, or to
authorize the erection of establishments for mechanical purposes.
These incipient concessions were not disregarded by Congress, but are recognised in the acts of 1804, 1812 and 1819; and, as claims, are within the act
of 1824.
That act (of 1824) gave a title to the owners of old water-lots, in Mobile, only
where an improvement was made on the east side of Water street, and made
by the pioprietor of the lot on the west side of that street. Such person could
not claim as riparian Proprietor, or where his lot had a definite limit on
the east.

Tnis case was brought, by writ of error under the 25th section of,
the Judiciary act, from the Supreme Court of the state of Alabama.
It was an ejectmeht, brought by the plaintiff in error, in the Circuit Court of the state of Alabama for Mobile county, to recover a
lot in the city of Mobile, on the east side of Water street.
By Ihe original plan of the' town, a street was laid off, called
Water street, on the margin of the river, running nearly north and
south, which was afterwards filled uj ; and by the improvement, the
water, at.high tide, was confined to.the eastern edge of the street.
Pollard's heirs -claimed under a Spanish grant from Perez, in 1809,
to Pollard the ancestor, which grant, as they alleged, was saved in
the act of Congress of 1824, and expressly admitted in an act of 1836,
entitled !5An act for the relief, of William Pollard's heirs," under
which a patent issued, embracing the premises in question.
The defendant, Files, connected himself with three different
branches'of title.
1. That of Forbes and Company.
2. That of Curtis Lewis.
3. That of the corporatioh of te city 6f'Mobile.
1. The title of Forbes and Company.
They held a grant from, the Spanish government for a lot fronting
upon Royal street (which is the next on.the west to Water street)
and running back 304 feet to the east, to a water-lot. It was: alleged
that the act of, Congress of 1824 (cited at large' in the relort of the
case o4 the City of Mobile v. Emanuel et al., 1 Howard, 95, vepted
a tile in the water-lot to them as proprietors and occupants of the
lot fronting on the river Mobile..
2. The title of Curtis Lewis.
It was alleged that he had.made an improvement upon the waterlot, and thus brought himself within another elauge of the act of 1824.

593 *

JANUARY -TERM, 1844.
Pollard's Lessee v.-Files.

3. The title of -the city of Mobile.
It was alleged that Congress, by the act of 1824; bad granted. to
the city of Mobile ccall the right and claim of the United States to all
the lots*not sold or 6onfirmed to individuals, either by this or any
former act, and to which no equitable title exists in favour of'any
individial, under this oi any former act, between high water-mark
and the channel of the river," &c. ; and that Pollard's claim not
coming within any. of -the exceptions, the title -of the United States
passed to the city of Mobile. In this view, the United States ip1836, of course, had no, title which they could transfertto Pollard's
heirs.
The case was tried ii the Circ it Court of the state, and -the opinion
bf.the court upon the law was in favour of the defendant, Files: it
was carried by.Pollard to the Supreme Court of the state, by whibh
the judgment was affirned, and to review this opinion the present
writ of error was brought.
The facts are set forth in'the bill of exceptions taken in the court
.

-

below, which is as follows-,.

Bill of Exceptions.
Be it remembered, that in the term -of the Circuit Court begun and
held in and for the county of Mobile and state of Alabama, on, the
fifth day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight'hundred
and forty-one, before the .Honourable E. S. Dargan, judge of the tenth
judicial district, came John Doe , by his attorney, George F. Sall
and impleaded Bernard.De Sylva, in whose stead the landlord, Files,
was admitted to defend in a plea of trespass in ejectment, upon the
demise of John Pollard, William Pollard, John Fowler and Harriethis wife, laie Harriet Pollard, Henry P. Ensigf and Phebe his wife,
late Phebe Pollard,.George Huggins and Louisa his wife, late Louisd
Pollard, Joseph Case and" Eliza his wife, late Eliza. Pollard,-.for a
term. of.years not ydt.expired, to a certain lot or parcel of land lying.
in the city of Mobile, between Church street and North Boundary.
street, and bounded on the north by the south side of what was
formerly called John Forbes and Co.'s canal, on the south by:'vhat
was called the King's wharf, of- the west by Water street, and -on
the east by the channel of the river; and thereupon issue was j6ined
between the said lessors of the plaintiffs and the said, Files, who, at
the trial, in pursuance of an act of the legislature of Alabama, passed
on the eighth day of January, one thousand eight hundred and thirtysix, entitled ccAn act for the relief of tenants in -possession, against.
VOL. II.-75
3D2

594

SUPREME COURT.
Poilards Lessee

v.-Files.

dormant titles," suggested to the court that he and those whose estate
he has in the lands or tenements sued for have had adverse possession of the same for three years next before the commencement of
such suit, and have made valuable improvements on the lands, so
on which suggestion -issue'was joined; also, on the. day and year
aforesaid, the said issues so joined, between the said parties as aforesaid, came to be tried by a jury for that purpose duly-empannelled
and sworn ; at which day came there as well the said plaintiffs as
the said defendant$ by their respective attorneys; and the plaintiffs,
iri-order to maintain the issue on their part, gave in evidence an act
of Congress, passed on the twenty-sixth day of May, one thousand
eight hundred and twenty-four, entitled ",An act granting certain
lots, of groundto -the corporation of the city of Mobile, and to certain
individuals of 'said city." They further gave in evidence an act of
Congress passed July 2, 1836, entitled ., An act for the relief
of Win. Pollard's heirs." They further gave in evidence a patent
issued on the~fourteenth day of -March, one thousand eight hundred
and thirty-seven, in pursuance of said act of Congress of Juy'2,
1836,-which patent embraced the premises in question. They further
gave in evidence a Spanish grant, of which, the following is atranslation ;
Mr. COMMANDANT :-William Pollard, an inhabitant of this district, before you, With all respect represents: that he has a mill established upon his plantation, and that he often comes to this place
with planks and property from it, and that he wishes to have a place
propitious or suitable for the landing and safety thereof, 'and that,
having found a vacant piece. at the river, side, between the canal
which -is cailed John Forbes and Co.'s and the wharf at this place,
he petitions you. to grant him said lot on the river bank, to give more
facility to his trading; .a favour he hopes to obtain of you.
Mobile, 11th December, 1809.
WILLIAM PoLLARD.
.Mobile, 12th December, 1809.
I grant the jetifion ; the lot or piece of ground he prays for, on
the river bank, provided it be vacant.
CAYETANO P
.
The plaintiff then proved the genuineness of the sign.ature of
Cayetano Perez, and referred- to the state papers relating to the public
lands'to show the different periods'during which Perez was in command.

The plaintiff then gave in evidence. that the premises sued for

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

595

Pollard's Lessee v. Files.

were situated between, Church ,street and North Boundary street and
immediately in front of lots known under the Spanish government as
water-lots, and that, the said lot now sued for was, in the year one
thousand eight hundred and- twenty-four, and is now, -known as a
water-lot; that it lies on the east side of Water street; that what -is
-nowWater street -was, under the Spanish government,.and at .the
date of the grant, to Forbes and -Co., hereafter attached, a natural
ridge, and Athat the ordinary tides did not overflow said ridge, and
very high tides entirely covered said ridge; that .to the north of the
lots-lying immediately w est of the lot sued for, near Conti street,
there was a depression in said ridge, where the water, at high tide,
flowed around upon the -eastern part of the lots lying, as before stated,
immediately west of the lot, sued for, and, which were known as
water-lots vnde'r the Spanish government. - The plaintiffs then. gave in evidence that John Forbes and-CQ.
applied for nad obtain'ed pennission, from the Spanish government,
to, open or cut the canal which was called John Forbes and Co.'s
canal) after they had obtained a grant for the lot lying immediately
west of said cagal. ,
The.defendn4t in order to maintain the issue on his part, gave in
evidence a Spanish grant to John Forbes and Company, for a lot of
ground eighty-feet frnt on Royal street, with a depth- of-three. hundred and four feet to the east, which is hereto attached-and markedA,
together-with the plator survey thereto -attached; which is made part
of 'this bill of exceptions; and proved that the said lot was situated.
immecilately west of the 16t sued for, and was separated from it.now
only by Water street; but that Wafer street was not known at the
date of this grant, and that said st:eot was laid off in 1820 and 1821.
The defendant further gave in evidence a certificate of confirmation
for the said, lot to John Forbes and Company,. who were the suecessors of Pantoti, Leslie and Company, the. original. granteesi which is
alto made a part of this bill of exceptions,. and marked B, by which
it w appear that 304 feet were confirmed to Forbes and Company.
The defendant. also proved that one Curtis Lewis, some time in
1822 or 1823, sunk some flat boats in the canal called Forbes and
Company's, and proceeded to fill up the lots now sued for, but ttat one
James Inerarily, one-of thefirm of Forbes and Company, dispossessed"
him in the night, and erected a smith's-shop, and continued ii possession abopt nine months, when Curtis Lewis regained possession by
writ of forcible entry afid detainer.

596

SUPREME COURT.
Pollard's Lessee

v. Files.

It further appeared in evidence that the ridge-in Water street was
.about fifteen or twenty feet in width, and that it was covered by the
ordinary tides for about one-third of its width,-up to the year 1822,
and that all the land east of Water street, as at present laid out, up to
1813, was below the ordinary high. water-mark. It further appeared
that the firm of Forbes and Company ent..ed upon the lot granted to
them as aforesaid, and-made valuable improvements on it, and fulfilled-the conditions of the grant, and on the 25th May, 1824, held the
land to the west of Water street without dispute.
It further appeared that the first improvements on the lot east of
Water street were made by Curtis Lewis, except the .canal, and imin
provements along it, of John Forbes and Company; but it was also
of Win. Pol .
evidefiie that, in 1811, a witness had seen the servants
lard removing some drift wood and piling some lumber on the lot in'
question.
T1Ae-nature and extent of Curtis Lewis's improvements are before
stated. The reports of commissioner Crawford, upon the titles -before
rbfererd to, were -read from 3d volume of the State Papers, 'and they
are understood to form a part of this bill of exceptions.
-

E.

S. DARGAN,

[L.

s.]

"The defendant then connected himself with the title of Curtis Lewis,
Forbes and Company, and the corp6raton of the city of Mobile, which
claimed the same by virtue of the- act of 1824 above referred to.
In the progress of the trial, when the plaintiffs offered 'in evidence
the Spanish grant to Pollard,'the defendant's counsel offered evidence,
the object of which was-to prove that the date of the graint had been
altered; the plaintiffs objected to the intrbduction of the evidence for
that object, but was overruled by the court, to which he excepted.
The'defendait then passed the giant to the witnesses, who, upon an
inspection of the same, were of opinion that the figures 09, in the
date of 1.809, on the face of the grant, had been altered.
The plaintiff then offered witnesses who proved, that having inspected it with a spy-glass, the alteration was from ,1810 to 1809.
Plaintiffs. also proved that Cayetano Peiez was commandant at Mobile
in 1810.
The defendant further gave in evidence that he had made.valuable
improvemerits on the lot sued for since the 8th day of January, 1836;
to the value of $7000; whereupon the plaintiffs, by their counsel,
prayed the court to charge the juiry, First, that the said Spanish grant
made to William Pollard'was ratified and confirmed by the 8th article

J ANUARY TERM, 1844.

597

Pollard's Lessee-v. Files.

of the. treaty of amity, settlements and lifiits, between the United
States and his Catholic Majesty, dated 22d February, 1819; which
charge the court refused to give; to 'which the plaintiffs, by their
counsel, excepted.
The plaintiffs theh, by their counsel, prayed-the court to charge the
jury that the act of Congress of.26th May, 1836, confirmed the'said
Spanish grant to Pollard ;.which charge the court refused to give , but
on the contrary, charged the jury, if they believed the evidence to betrue, the fee-simph to .the premises stied for were vested 'in Forbes
and-Company, and that the acts of Congress of 1824 ahd 1836, and
the patent in pursuance thereof,- were utterly void, so far as relates to
the. premises ii question, and that no title vested in the lessors. of
plaintiff by virtge of said acts 6foCongress and said patent;. to which
cbrgpe'the plaintiffs.excepted.
The plaintiffi, by their counsel, then prayed the "court to. charge the
jury, that if they.should fin d ihat an alterati6n had been made-in the
date of Pollard's SpanisR grdnt,.advantage coul.'not be taken fitin
an aeton.of ejectinent, but.by a .ci.fa. in the .name of the general governtnent,-or a bill in equity; 'which charge the court refused to'gire,.
but, on the contrry, charged, that if they.8hould believe that the date,
haa been 'altered, that they-should find for the defendant, unless-they
were satisfied from the evidencethat, though'alterled,.if was inade in
fact whilst. P'fez was.commlandant; that the alteration pf the. date
would not affect the -.grant:if Perez was comman.ant at the time .of.
the execution; but that if altered, the law would not presume that
the gant was made while Cayetano.Perez.was commandant, But that
this must be shown ly tIhe evidence; to which charge, so given, and
the refusal to charg&as proyed0 th6 plaintiffi..excepted,
. The plaitifhs then prayed the 'court.to charge the jury, that the act
of'January.8th, 1836%passed, bythe Jegislature of Alabam, 'entitled
cAn act for therelief.of tenants in possession, against dormant titles,"
is contrary to the tenth section 9f.the first'article of'the Constituiion
of the United States, and is 'theiefore'void; which chaige the court
refused-to give, but, o.n the contrary, charged- that it is constitutional;:
to all -. hich the plaintiff excepted, and payd-the court to.sign and
seal this his bill of exceptions, which is done.
E.*S.. D.4oG,
Judge.- [L. S.]
It has been before stated, that this'opinion of the court was afirmed
by the Supreme Court of the state of Alabama: The following extract
from the opinion of the latter court, is given, in order that the re&arks

598

SUPREME COURT.
Pollard's Lessee

v.'Files.

made by the Supreme Court of the United States may be fully understood.
"cIf the law, as laid down by a majority of'the court, in the lessee
of Pollard's heirs v. Kibbe, 14"Peters, 353, is to be regarded as decisive of the law applicable to the plaintiff's title, and as 'excluding
all objection to it, then the answer given by the Circuit Court to the
second charge prayed is confessedly'erroneous. Of the authority of
that case we have hothing to say. We may, however, be permitted
to remark, with- all deference, that we should yield to it more willingly, if it had the sariction of a majority of the Supreme Court. We
are aware that, as reported, the judgment seems to have been concurred in by five of.the justices; but we have in our possession a
manuscript copy 6f the opinions of Justice Thompson, McLean, Bar-:
'bour, and Catron, and the judgment that was rendered; at the foot
of which is the following memorandum:, 'Dissenting justices, Catron, Barbour, and Wayne. Mr. Chief Justice Taneyr did not sit in
this base.' Attested as follows, 'True copy, test. Win. Thos.
Caribll, C. S. C., U. S.' That Mr.- Justice McKinley was absent
during the, entire term, appears from a note of the reporter. If the
attestation of the clerk be gorrect, then but four of the justices concurred in reversing the judgment of' this court. And to all this, it
may be added, that Mr. Justice McLean did not agree to the judgment of reversal, so far'as we are informed by his opinion, upon the
ground that thE. grant to William Pollard in 1809 was a 'new
.grant' within the meaniiig of the .act of the 26th of May, 1824. But'
he.yielded his assent to the conclusion of Mr. Justice Thompson, (as
we understand it,) because the. second se-tion of that statute required
the improvement to be made on the lot east of Water street, and to
entitle the proprietor of the lot, immediately -west of the water-lot, the
improvement should have been made.b himself. These were ques.ions, which, it seemed to us, were wholly unimportant to be considered,'nnless Pollard's was a ,new grant,' since it is an -undisputed
prificiple, that the plaintiff.must recover upon-the strength of his own
title, and*not upon the weakness of his adversaries.
view 6f the case referred to, with the most
".We have taken thi's
profound respect for the Supreme Coutt of the United States, and have
only to say, that we hope an opportunity may soon be afforded for a
re-examination of the act of 1824"
'Coxe, for the plaintiff in error-,
. .ergeant,for the defendant.

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

Polla.Td's Lessee

599

v. Files.

Coxe.contended,
1. That the judgment below was erroneous, and oughtnot to be
reversed.
2. That the Circuit Court erred in refusing to give the instruction.q
as prayed'by the plaintiff.
3. That it erred in giving the instructions which were given to the
jury.
He considered the principle of the present case as decided in Pollard's heirs v. Kibbie, 14 Peters, 353. The same grant was there
brought under review; and it was decided that the act of 1836 'w'aS
a private act which Congress had power to pass; that the claim of
Pollard was excepted in the 2d section of the act of 1824, and that
the term cnew" applied to grants made after the cession of Louisiana.
Pages 360, 362, 364.
He referred also to 16 Peters, 234, where the question came up
again, and quoted passages from pages 247, 251,257,265; 422, 427.;
from all which he inferred that the question had been decided and
the rights under it settled.
Sergeant, for the defendant in error, said he did not mean to question any point decided.in 14 Peters, but argued,
I. The plaintiff below had no right.
1. He derived no right from the act of 1894, because he was not
within the act; and, also, because the United States had nothing in
the premises to grant.
2. He derived no right from the act of i836, and the patent .under
it, as well for the reasons already stated, as because the right of the.
United States, if any they had, wan already granted by the act of
1824 to those under whom the defendant claims.
H. The court did not err in refusing to give the instructions asked
for by the plaintiffs, nor in giving the instructions which they did give.
HI_ The court did not err in refusing to instruct the jury that the
act of 8th January, 1836, is contrary to the Constitution of the United
States; and, if they did, it is immaterial,, as the plaintiff were barred
on other grounds.
This is a different case from Kibbie's, and not covered by that decision. There was an error in. fact there which misled the court, and
which was not discovered until this case. was tried. The claim is to
a.place between high and low water-marks, and the grant called for
fast land. The grant was not surveyed or recorded.

600.,

SUPREME COURT.
Pollard's Lessee v. Files.

1., The plaintiff derived no right from the act of 1824, because he
was not within it. He cannot bring himself within any of the exceptions. He never owned a water-lot, nor made any improvements.
7 Laws 'United S~tes, 318, act of 26th May, 1824.
If it be said that the plaintiff claims under a new and valid grant,
the answer is, that if there Was an.) grant at all, it was issued when
Spain had no power to make one. In Pollard's lessee v. Kibbie"
the paper waws said to have been executed on December 12, 1809,
and the court took this .for granted. It was the foundation of the
opinion. 14 Peters, 351. But this record shows that the date was
altered, arid that 1809 was not the truo one. The jury found the
fact of the alteration from 1810 to 1809, and if issued in 1810,.Perez
had no authority to make the grant.
The alteration must be presumed to be made after execution.
Peters C. C. R. 369. And the materiality of the alteration is a
question for the court. 1 Peters,-552.
I Perez, in 1810, having no power to grant, the basis of the plaintiff's
title is gone, and the case infected with fraud.
The act. pf 1824, says the cc Spanish government must have made
a new grant or order of survey for'the same, during the time at which
they had the power to grant the same," and although the judges
differed as to the precise time when Spanish authority ceased, all
agreed that it'was extinct on-the-12h December, 1810. Opinion of
Judge Baldwin, page 368, 369, 370; of Judge McLean, 366; of
Judge Catron and Barbour, 426, 428; Thompson, 355.
The proclamation 6t the Presidentwas -in October,'1810. Thepoint, decided in Klibbie's case was that the" grant was issued when
*the Spanish govefnent had a right to do it, and the case stood upon
that. At.page 361, Judge Thompson says the grant was dated 12th
'December, 1809, and was rejected by the commissioner because
there were rio improvements on the lot.
But possession is required to create a title. .1 Howard, 95.
2. The plaintiff derived -no fight from the act of 1836, or the
patent- under it. That act is only a quit claim" on the part of the
United States, but they had nothing to grant. All their title had
ireviously been granted to Forbes and Company, or to the city of
Mobile, and the defendant unites those titles. The grant to Forbes
and Company ran to the water.; they had fulfilled all the conditions,
had entered and made improvements before the act of 1824 passed.
There was no Water street; noihing to divide them from the river.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

601

Pollard's Lessee v. Files.

The act of 1824 vested a title per se, and the parties had nothing to
do but go into court and show the facts in evidence. If the act of
1836 be considered as explanatory of that of 1824, it is dangerous to
construe a general act by a private one, obtained by a party for his
own benefit. The true construction of that of 1824 is that the improvement must be made on the old loi; that every one who went
to the water should not be cut off from it. It supposes an inchoate
right to the lot in front, because an exception is, if a party has
alienated the lot in front. He must, therefore, have had a right to
alienate.
In Esclava's case, the record showed that the party who owned the
old lot had improved both the old and new. The question, therefore, did not come up.
[The arguments of both counsel as to the right of the state of Alabama over navigable water in virtue of her sovereignty, are omitted,
because the opinion of the court does not touch upon that point.]
Core, in reply.
It is said that the improvement must be upon the old lot, but, in
14 Peters, three of the judges dissented on this ground, and in
16 Peters, the court confirmed the dissent, and said it must be on the
new lot. 16 Peters, 247.
It has been said that Forbes and Company -were riparian proprietors, running down to the water. But their grant calls only for a
certain number of feet; and it was confirmed by the commissioner
just in that way.
It has also been said, that the grant of 1809 was void. But the
plaintiffbas a patent under the act of 1836. If the plaintiff had recovered below, and the defendant bad excepted to instructions, the
qjuestion about the grant would have come up. The President's
proclamation was in 1810, but no act of Congress was passed until
1811, and the country was not taken possession of until after that act.
The record shows that evidence was given on the trial that Perez was
commandant in 1810.
The volume of Statc Papers referred to, shows that-Perez issued a
grant in May, 1811, and even as late as November, 1811. Vol. 3,
Public Lands, 450, 454.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of-the court.
For the facts of the case, we refer to the report of it. It presents
Vo.. II.-76
3E

SUPREME COURT.
Poliard's Lessee v. Files.

the same titles, and, substantially, the same facts, that were before
thisThe
court in Pollard's heirs -v. Kibbie, 14 Peters, 353.
firstinstruction asked by the plaintiff of the state
Circuit Court
is, that the Spanish grant made to William Pollard was ratified and
confirmed by th eighth article of the treaty with Spain of 1819," by
-which the Florida's were acquired. This the court refused to give;
and correctly.
It is the settled doctrine of the judicial department of this government, that, the treaty of 1819 ceded- no territory west of the rivet
Perdido, but only that east of it: and therefore all grants made by
Spain after the United States acquired, the country from France, in
1803, are void, if the lands granted lay -est of that river; because
made on territbry acquired by the treaty 5f 1803; which extended
to the Perdido east. It was thus held in Foster and Elam v. Neilson, 2 Peters, 254, and again -in Garcia v. Lee, 12 Peters, 515, and
is not now open to controversy in.
this court.
2. The plaintiffs then, by their counsel, prayed the court to charge
the jury that the act. of Congress of 26th May, 1836, confirmed the
said Spanish -grant to Pollard; which charge the court refused to
give, but, on 'the contrary, charged" the jury, if they believed the
,evidence to be tienthe fee-simple to the premises sued for were
vepted in Forbes and C6., and that the act of Congress of 1824, and
-1836, and the patent in pursuance thereof, were utterly void, so far
as relates to the premises in question, and that no title vested in the
lessors of plaintiff by virtue of said acts of Congress and said patent;
to which charge the plaintiffs excepted.
The questions raised by the :instruction asked and refused;. and
that given, will be examined so far only as to decide the present
case.
This"court hfeld, when-Pollard's title was before it, formerly, that
Congress had the power to grant the land to hin by the act of 1836:
on this point there was no difference of opinion at that time among
the judges. The difference to .which the Supreme Court of Alabama,
in the presebt cage refers- (in its opinion in the record,) grew 6ut of
the construction given by a majority of the court to the ac t of 1824,
'by'which the vacant lands east of Water street, were granted to the
city- of'Mobile. That grant excepted out of it, all lots to which,
"cthe Spanish government had made a new grant, or order of survey
for the same, during the time at which they'had the power to grant
the. same." If Pollard's was such cca niw grant," then the land

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

603

-Pollard's Lessee i. Files.

covered by it was excepted and did not pass to the city; and the act
of.1836, and the patent founded on it, passed the title to Pollard.
After the country west of the Perdido had been acquired by the
treaty of 1803, the Spanish government continued to exercise jurisdiction over the country, including the city of Mobile, for some nine
years; the United- States ifot seeing proper to take possessi6n, and
Spain refusing to surrender it, on the assumption that the country
had not been ceded by that kingdom to France in the treaty of 1800;
and of course that it did not pass to this country by our treaty with
France. That Spain had no power to grant the soil, during the
time she thus wrongfully held the possession, is settled by the cases
cited of Foster and Elam v. Neilson; and Garcia v. Lee. But the
right necessarily incident to the exercise of jurisdiction over the
country and people rendered it proper that permits to settle and
improv, by cultivation; or to authorize the erection of establishments for mechanical purposes, should be granted. And to this end
the concession to Pollard, of December, 1809, was made. He set
forth in his petition to the commandant, that he had a mill established
on his plantation, and often came to Mobile with planks and prpperty.
from it; and that he wished a place propitious and suitable for the
landing and safety thereof; and havifig found a vacant -piece at the
river side, between the canal of Forbes and Co. and the public
wharf, he solicits the commandant to grant him said lot on the river
bank, to give more facility to his trading. This lot, the governor
granted to.Pollard for the purpose set forth by him.
The use, for the purpose solicited, during the time- the Spanish
authorities were exercised, could be properly granted: of this there
can be no doubt.
Very many permits to settle on the public domain and cultivate,were. also granted about the same time; which were in form incipiefconcessions of the land, and intended by, the governor to give tifle,
and to receive confirmation afterwards from the king's deputy, so as
to perfect them into a complete title. Pollard's was also of this
description. Although the United States disavowed that any right
to the soil, passed by such concessions; still they were not disregarded as giving no equity to the claimant: on the contrary, the first
act of Congress passed (of April 25, 1*12) after we got possession
of the country, appointed a commissioner to report to Congress bn
them in common with all others originating before the treaty of 1803took effect. The third section orders all persons, claiming-lahds, in

RUPRE.ME COURT.
Pollard's Lessee v. Files.

the previously disputed territory C by virtue of any grant, order of
survey, or other evidence of claim, whatsoever derived from the
French, British, or Spanish governments, to be laid before the commissioner, with a notice in writing, stating the nature, &c., of the
claim." On these, (by sec. 5,) the commissioner had power given
him to inquire inito the justice, and validity of the claims; and in
every case it was his duty to ascertain whether the lands claimed
had been inhabited and cultivated; at what time the inhabitation
and cultivation commenced; when surveyed and by whom; and by
what authority-and into every matter affecting their justice and
,validity.
By sec. 6, abstracts were to be furnished to the secretary of the
treasury, of the claims, arranged in classes, according to their respective merils; and these abstracts, &c., were to be laid beooie
Congress, for their determination thereon, &c.
By sec. 8, the commissioner was ordered to report to Congress at
its next session, a list of aliactual settlers on the land in his district,
.who had no claims derived from either the French, British; or
Spanish governments, and the time such settlements were 'mbde.
In January, 1816, the report of commissioner (Crawford) was laid
before Congress. 3 Am. State Papers, 6,. "Public Lands."
The 14th see. of the act of March 26th, 1804, declares all grants
void if made for lands within the territories ceded by the French
republic to the United States, by the treaty of the 13th of April,
1803, (and which had been acquired by France from Spain,) that
had been made after the date above. Provided, that the law should
not be construed to make void any bona fide grant made by the
Spanish government, to an actual settler on the lands granted, for
himself, and for his wife and family, &c. -On Pollard's claim'the
commissioner reported unfavourably, because it had "not been inhabited nor cultivated." 3 State Papers, 18. .The bill of exceptions
refers to this report as it standsin the book, as p'art of the bill of exceptions, and as such it is treated by us.
In April, 1818, by a resolution of the senate, it was referred to
the secretary of. the treasury to furnish a plan, for an adjustment of
the claims reported on br the commissioners east and west of. Pearl
river: and on -the '7th of December, 1818, the secretary made his
report in the form of a bill. 3 State Papers, 391. On all the imperfect claims favourably reported on, by the commissioners, derived

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

605

Pollard's Lessee v. Files.

from the authorities of Spain before the 20th of December, 1803,
a confifination was recommended: And the land that had been cultivated on or before that day, should be confirmed also, as if the
titles had been completed. And as to all the other claims" favourably recommen&ed to Congress by the commissioners, the claimant
should be entitled to a grant therefor, as a donation-not to exceed
to any one person more than six hundred and forty acres: That all set-.
tiers before the 15th of April, 1813, shall receive a grant for the land
claimed, not exceeding six hundred and forty acres, if actually inha-.
bited and cultivated.
On this report the act of March 3d, 1819, was founded-and by
see. 2, each settler with title-papers, had confirnmed to him his habitation as a donation, not to exceed one. thousand two hundred and
eighty acres; and this irrespective of the time when the settlement
was made, if previous to the 15th.of April, 1813; but the grant not
to exceed six hundred and forty acres to such settlers as had presented no -written evidences of title.
By the 7th, 8th, and 9th .sections, those who had filed their notices
of claim 1hefore the commissioner, and which had not been fecom-.
mended for confirmation, were allowed to the 1st of July, 1820, to
file additional evidence in support of the claim with the register and
receiver, of the land-offices -respectively established by that act, in
the country divided by Pearl river; who had the same powers conferred on them that the commissioner previously had. New claims
might also be filed. On these the register and receiver were to report; of course, ifter the 20th of July, 1820. The land-office for
the country including Mobile was at Jackson court-house. Thus the
matter stood for eight years.
By the act of March 3d,.1827, further time was given to the first
of -September, 1827, to claimants whose evidences of claim had
been previously filed with the commissioner, to produce further evidence and "1to present their titles and claims, and the evidence in
support of the same, to the register and receiver, of the land-office at
St. Stevens." By sec. 2, they were ordered to hold -their sessions at
the city of Mobile, and there examine the suspended clainis on the
same principles the commissioner had done.
Thus suspended, and prctected, stood the title of Pollard when
the act of .1824 was passed granting to the city of Mobile the river
front. And from any thing appearing to the contrary, it stood equally
3n,2

606

SUPREME COURT.
PoDllard's Lessee v. Files.

protected until confirmed by the act of 1836. It was for the sovereign power to judge of its merits; it had never been rejected, and
was awaiting the final action -of Congress. Furthermore; it was
from its situation as a city lot not subject to entry in a land-office,
being in no sulrvey of the public lands: and it is a fair constructionof the exception to the act of 1824, to hold Pollard's claim was intended to be within the following exception; as well as the one
commented on in Pollard v. -Kibbie: That is-" Provided, that nothing in this act contaiihed shall be construed to affect the claim or
claims, if any such there be, of any individual, or of any body politic
or corporate."
We think Pollard's was a claim of an individual within the exceptioui, and.was so deemed by Congress; as the United States, by
the first section, only profess to grant their right to the city front :
and except all lots confirmed by Congress by that, or any previoup
act-and also such "to which an equitable title existed in favour of
any individual under this, or any foriner act." Then in the second
section,-the provision examined in tl- case of Pollard v. Kibbie has
direct reference to protection by excepting lots-" to which the
Spanish government had made a new grant or order of survey," &c.
It is obvious the previous obscurity and confusion were intended to
be explained by the proviso: simply expressed, that nothing-which
preceded should affect any individual claim-regardless of the fact
whether it was good or bad, so it was a recognised claim by the
United Statesl That Pollard's was so, is most apparent by the protection afforded to it: and such is the unanimous opinion of this
court, for the reasons formerly and now given; taken together..
Pollard's patent is therefore valid, unless the second instruction
given be true-that the act of Congress of 1836, and the patent
founded on it be void, as relates to the subject in controversy; and
therefore'the lessors of the plaintiff derived no title from these sources,
because the fee-simple of the premises was in John Forbes and Co.,.
when Pollard took his title.
It was held in the City of Mobile v. Elava, 16 Peters, 247, that
the improvements referred to in the act of 1824, by virtue of which
a title was given to the owner of the old water-lot west of Water
street, to the lot immediately east of it, must have been made on the
new, and eastern water-lot: second, that such improvement must
have. been made by the proprietor of the old lot.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

-607

Pollard's Lessee v. Files.
Forbes and Co. had none such, and therefore took no benefit under
the act of 1824.
-*
If the instruction intended to maintain that Forbes and Co., as riparian proprietors of the 'lot west of Water streef, could claim all the
land east of it, to the channel of the iver, then we think the court
erred: and we take it for granted the court so intended ; as by no
other means could the land sued for be claimed by Forbes and Co. from
any evidence in the record. Their lot was a grant of 1802, for 80
feet fi;nt, by 304 feet deep, west of what is now Water street; and
bounded on the east by the street as it now exists. High tide formerly reached it; low tide did not: But we .deem this an immaterial
circumstance. Forbes and Co.'s grant was a specific town lot bounded by streets, then existing or expected to exist; it fronted to the
east on a contemplated street, reserved to the public use, as ungranted
property; and it never was contemplated by-the grant to give any
right to the soil beyond its- fixed boundary east, as actually surveyed.
It does conform, and must conform, to the city arrangement of lots:
if it was held otherwise, then every 6ther-proprietori of an old front
lot could claim over the mud-flat to'the'channel of-the river, as a riparian owner; sweeping through the city property as it now exists
by filling -up, and raising the flat, to the extent east of probably a
thousand feet, or more. We deem such an assumption entirely inadmissible: and therefore think the court also erred in the second instruction given, as well as in refusing that asked on part of the plaintiffs.
With the third instruction this court cannot interfere: and the jury
having found for the defendant, no question arises on the fourth instruction.
For the reasons assigned, we order the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Alabama to be reversed.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from
the Supreme Court of the state of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, Iris now here ordered and adjudged
by this court that the judgment of the said Supieme Cjurt of the
state of Alabama be, and the same is hereby reversed with costs; and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said Supreme
Court, that further proceedings may be had therein, in conformity to
the opinion of this court, arid as to law and justice shall appertain.

