JANUARY TERM, 1844.

263

Matheson's Admin. v. Grant's Admin.
case,).on the part of the plaintifi an acquiescence if not a direct sanction, which, at this day, this court is unwilling to disturb. Great
wrong might, by so late an interference, be visited upon the officer,
who may have been reposing upon the conduct of this plaintiff; and
the danger of a result like this is enhanced by the total absence of any
thing like proof to show that.the plaintiff ever refused to receive the
amount collected by the'marshal, and maynot have actually received
and applied it to his own use, or at what rate of value if so received,
This court is of the opinion upon the case certified to them, that the
return of the marshal of the 17th of February, 1840, should not,
under the facts disclosed in this case, be quashed.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of Mississippi, and on the point and question on which the judges
of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which was
certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of Congress
in such case made and provided, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, It is the opinion of this court that the return
of the marshal of the 17th of February, 1840, should not, under the
facts disclosed in this case, be quashed. Whereupon, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that it be so certified to the said

Circuit Court.

JOHN MuRPHY AND JoHN DARRINGTON, ADMINISTRATORS OF WILLIAM

MATHtESON, DECEASED, PLA11TIFFS N ERROR, v. ANGuS STEWART,
ADmINIsTRAToR OF ALEXANDER GRANT.
The court below, on motion, arrested a judgment for the plaintiff, after verdict,
but without entering also that he took nothing by his writ.
The declaration contained two counts; in the first, the plaintiff sued as administrator; and in the second, in his own personal right. A general verdict was
given, and the judgment arrested on account of the misjoinder of counts.
Afterwards, and before a writ of .error was brought, a motion was made by the
plaintiff to set aside the order arresting the judgment, and for leave to enter a
voUe prosequi upon the secoiid count.
An affidavit was filed by the plaintiff's counsel, stating that the only evidence
offered on the trial was given on the part of the plaintiff, and that the defend-

284

SUPREM°E COURT.
Matheson's Admin. v. Grant'! Admin.

ant offered no evidence whatever The nature of the evidence was also stated,
and the facts stated in the affidavit were not controverted.
The court below set aside the order arresting the judgment, a year after itwas
made, and allowed the verdiqt to be amendqd by entering the same munc prb
tunc,on the first count only.
In this thcre was no error.
All that4i required is that the court should amend the verdietwithin a reasonabI time; and this maybe done upon: the-judge?s notes of the-evidence given
at the trial or upon any pther clear and satisfactory evidence. The practice
is a salutary one and in furtherance'of justice.
The necessity of,a profert of letters of administration depends upon,the local
laws of a state.
Where the declaration alleges a partnership, and the jury find a general verdictthey must be-presumed to have found that fact; and proof that the chose.in.
action was endorsed. in blank was sufficient to sustain the first
count. The
plaintif has' a right to elect in what-right he sues.
After all, the question of amendment was a question of discretion in the court
below, upon its own review of the facts. This court bat no right or authority,
up9n-a writ'of error, to examine the question; it belonged appropriateliand
exclusively to the court below.

Tmis cause was brought up by.writ of errdr from the Circuit Court
of,the United States-for the sortherndistrict of Alabama.
In'.1818 and 1820, the following promissory note and due-bill
were given:-

30th &tem&r, 1818.

$3,428 18.

Four nionths after date I promise to pay Grant and McGuffie, or
order, three thousand four hundred and twenty-eight dollars eighteeh
cents, value roceived.
-WU. MATHESOZ.
Endorsed,

GnA

and McGu=sm.

TharIlston, 25th Feiruarzj 1820.
Due Grant and McGiffle,.or bearer, on demand, three hundred
and fo ty-four dollars sixty-six cents, .with interest from date.

$344 b-6.

WILI~AM MATHESON.

In 1838, Angus Stewart as the administrator of Grant, who was
alleged to be the surviving partner of Grant and McGuffie, brought
a suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district of Alabama against Murphy and Darrington, administrators of
.Mffheson.

-The record (as brought up by a certiaari) showed that the declaration contained the two following counts, first:-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

265

Matheson's Admin. v. Grant's Admin.

cAngus Stewart who is a citizen of the state of South Carolina,
and adminiatr of ll and .singular -the goods and chattels, rights
and creditsj of.Alexander Grant, deceased, who was survivor of
M6Guffie,late-merchanta and partiers, trading under the name and
firm of Grant and McGuffie, who at.the time of. their death, and at
the*time of the execution of the contract herein set forth, were also
citizens of the state of South.Carolina,-complains of John Murphy
and John Darrington, administratprs, with the will annexed, of William Matheson, deceased,.citizens of the state of AlabamB, in custody,
and so forth, in a plea of trespass on -the case, aid so forth; for that
whereas the said William Matheson, in his lifetime, on the 0fh day
of September, 1818, at Charleston, to,wit, in- the district aforesaid,
made his promissory note in.wiiting, by which he piomised to pay
said Grant and McGuffie, or order, four months after the date thereof,
$3428 18, value received, and then and there delivered said note
to said Grant and McGuffie;. and: also, on 25th February, 1820, said
Matheson executed his -due-bill, or promissory note, at Charleston,
to wit, in district afor~said, by which he promised to pay said Grant
and MdGuffie, or bearer, on demand, $344 66, with interest from
the date of said note; which periods have long since elapsed; and
being so liable, he,the said.Matheson, in his lifetime, and his said
administrators since his death, promised and assumed to pay to said
plaintiff the .said suns of money, to wit, the sums of $3428 18 and*
$344 56, according to the tenor and effect of said notes; yet neither
the said Matheson, inhis lifetime, nor his said administrators since
his death, have paid the said several sums of money, according to
their several promises and- assumptions, and the tenor and effect of
the said notes, either to said Grant and McGue, in their lifetime,
or to said administrator since their death, to the damage of said
administrator $16,000.
The second count was as follows
And whereas, also, the said Angus Stewart complains of said
defendants, administrators as -aforesaid, in custody, &c.; for that
whereas. the said Wilham Matheson, on the 30th September, 1818,
at Charleston,. &c., made his certain promissory note, in writing,
whereby he promised to pay, four months after date thereof, to one
Grant and McGuffie, or order, $3428 18, and then and there delivered the said note to Grant and McGuffie; and .the said Grant and
McGuffie, to whose order the said note was payable, then and there
endorsed and delivered the same to the said plaintiffi, of all which
VoL. H.-34
Z

286

SUPREME COURT
Mathesons Admin. v. Gr'ants Admin.

the said Matheson had full notice; which period has now elapsed.
And the said Matheson also, on the 25th February, 1820, at Charleston, aforesaid, &c., made his note, in wvfiting, whereby he promised
to pay to Grant and McGuffie, or bearer, on demand, $344 66, with
interest from the date of the said note, and then and there delivered
the same to said Grant and McGuffie, who then and there delivered
the same to the said-Angus Stewart. And the said note being due
and demanded in the lifetime of the. said Matheson, he was liable to
pay the same; and being, so liable, the said Matheson, in his lifetime,
undertook and promised to pay the same, and his administrators since
his- death; but neither did the said Matheson, in his lifetime, nor
have his administrators since his death, paid the said sums of money,
according. to their several promises, and the tenor and effect of the
said notes, although said Matheson in his lifetime was, and his
administrators have been, since his death, frequently requested to do
so, to the damagi of the said plaintiff $16,000; and thereof he
brings suit, &c.
To this declaration the.plaintiffs in error, Murphy and Darrington,,
put in two pleas, viz. : the general issue and the statute of limitations.
The case was tried at November term, 1840, when the juryfound
for the. plaintiff, and assessed his damages at $8250.
At the same term, a motion for.arrest of the judgment was made
and granted, on the ground of a misjoinder of counts and causes of
action in the declaration.
At March term, 1841, nothing was done in the case; but in the
November teru', 1841, on motion of the counsel for the plaintiff the
order of the November term, 1840, arresting the judgment, was vacated, the verdiqt was ordered to be amended so as to apply to the
first count in the declaration, the plaintiff was, permitted to enter a
nolle prosequi on the second count in the declaration, and judgment
was directed hunc. pro tunc upon the verdict, applying it to the first
count in the declaration; and judgment was entered accordingly. The ground upon which the court set aside the order arresting the
judgment, &c., was the' following affidavit, which 'was filed, accompanied by the deposition of Chapman Levy , Which was the same that
was read upon thetrial., The deposition is too long to be inserted,
but stated in substance that the notes and due-billdwere handed to
Levy for collection in -1821 or .1822, and that long afterwards he,
Levy, had a conversation' with Matheson, which was suppos d to
take.the case out of the statute of limitations.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

. 67

.Mithesot's Admin. v. Grant's Admin.

Personally appeared before me, P. Phillips, an Pttormey of this
court, who, being duly sworn, says: that on the trial of the cause
of Angus Stewat .v. John Murphy and John Darrington, in which
a verdict was rendered for the plaintiff at the November term, 1840,
of this ho'nourable court, the plaintiffioffered the depositions of Chapman Levy, Jacob Axon, and McKenzie, and the fiotes, all of
which are now on file; that this -was the only evidence .offered by
plaintiff, and that no evidence 'was offered by the defendants, and
that the cause went to the jury upon the above depositions of the
plaintiff alone.
P. PmLIIps.
Sworn to and subscribed in open court, 3d December, 1841.
DAvm' Fizrs, C. C. C. W. D. tla.
To review the decision of the court in setting aside the order for
arresting the judgment, &c.-, the writ of error was brought.
Ogden, for the plaintifs in error.
JNelson, (attorney-general,) for the defendants in error.
Ogden, for the plaintiffs in error, c6ntended 1hat the motion to
amend the verdict, by making it-apply to the first count in the declaration, should have been made during the same term in which the
verdict was rendered, or at any rate at the next term: and that the'
court below should not have ordered the amendment at the second
term after the verdict was rendered. He stated that he had been
able to find no case where sich a motion has been granted or made
after -the term in which the postea was returned to the court in bench.
See 12 Peters, 492; 1 Siderfin, 162.
. But, secondiy, if it was competent for the court at so late a day to
order the verdict to be amended, by making it applieable to the first
count in the declaration, then we conthnd that there was not sufficient
in that count to justify a judgment in favour of the plaintiff upon it;
because,
1. This count of the declaration does not. sufficiently -allege- a
partnership between Grant and McGuffe, nor that Grant was the
survivor of them, which allegation is necessary to entitle the plain*
tiff to recover.
2. It alleges a promise by Matheson in his lifetime, and by his
administrators since his death, to pay the plaintiffs the money according to the promises made to Grant and McGuffie in their lifetime;
and that yet neither the said Matheson in his lifetime nor his said

268

SUPREME COURT.
Matheson's Admin. v. Grant's Admin.

adulinistrators since his death, have paid the said sums of money,
either to Grant and McGuffie in their lifetime, nor to the said administrator since, their death, to the damage of the said administrator

$16,000.
The allegation is, that Matheson in his lifetime, and his administrators since his death, promised to pay the plaintiffi the sums of-'
money ,mentioned in the declaration. Now, -who is meant by the
plaintifs? Not Grant and McGuffie, for they are both dead. The
only plaintiT is Angus Stewart,. the administrator. There is,.then)"
no allegation of a promise to pay Grant and McGuffie, nor the survivor of them; without such a promise no action can be brought by
the administrator.
3. There is no profert of the letters of administration; This icfe..
is, however, probably cured by the verdict.
But independent of the defects in the declaration, there was no
evidence in the- case justilyiig a verdict for the plaintiff upon this
count in the declaratioh. 1. There is no sufficient proof of the partnership between Grant
and McGuffie.
The only evidence upon. this subject is found-in the deposition of
Chapman Levy.
He says, I was acquainted with McGuffie, of the firm of Grant and
McGuffie, " who were said to have a mercantile house in Charleston,
South Carolina."
And c Mathesbn told, him, the witness that -he would not forget
the lihdness of Mr. McGuffie; and the assistance he. had received
from the firm through him.'2
The plea of the goneral issue puts all the material allegations in
the declaration m issue.
If, therefore, there be not sufficient proof of a partnership between
Grnt and McGuffie, the plaintiff is not entitled.to recover under this
count.
Again, there is mo proof of the death of Grant, and McGuffie, or of
either'of them .
The only evidence upon this point is contained in the deposition
of Levy; he says, ,cI belidve I was then informed of the death of
,one or both Grant and McGuffie."
It is confidently believed that this is -no evidence of the death of
Grant and McGufie, or of either of them,,and cextainlyit is no proof
f the fact which was'the survivor of them.

IA'NUARY TERM, 1844.
Matheson's Admin. p. Grant's Admin.

I sutmit, then, that there was no evidence to support the verdict
upon the first count of this declaration,
Ent, secondly, if any count was supported, it was the second
count-1. The notes offered and read in evidence.,
The large note payablp to Grant and Mc.Guffie, or order, is charged
in this count to have been endorsed by them to the plaintif. Angus.
Tie note.is produced and read in evidence, and is endorsed by Grant
and McGuffie. This endorsement isin law an assignment .to:the
plaintifi; and after such endorsement Grant and McGuffie had .no
interest in the note.
This second count states that the smallei note payable to Grant or
McGuffie, or bearer, was afterwards delivered by themto the plainti,
who thereupon became the bearer thereof, and, as such, entitled to
the moneys due-upon the said note.
It is manifest that the evidence in the case was sufficient to maintain this second count, if either count was supported'by the evidence.
If I am right here, the court below erred in ordering the verdict
to be amended so as to mak'e it applicable to the first count in this
declaration-under the evidence inhe case, the verdict cannot be
applied to, the first count in the declaration.
But it is contended that this case does not come within the rule by
which a plaintiff is permitted to enter the verdict as upon one. count
in his declaration, and to enter a wnole prosegui upon the other counts.
This is a declaration stating two separate and distinct grounds of
action, in, two distinct and different parties. First; in.the administrator of Grant, as the surviving partner of-Grant and McGuffe, and
second, in Angus Stewart, in his own right. The counts are wholly
inconsistent with each other; if the administrator of Grant-has a right
to recoyer, Angus Stewart, in hisindividu4l capacity, can have no such
right. this is mot like the case of an action.of slander, in which the
declaration contains .everal counts upon different words spoken, the
,words in some of the counts being ictionable, in others not; and
where evidence was given only upon the counts on the actionable
words.
Upon this point, I refer the court to the following cases, with only
one single observation updn them: the evidence in this case being
the notes upon which the suit was founded, was:-evidence under
both counts in the declaration. Holt vt Scholefield, 6 Term Rep.

69l.

'270

SUPREME COURT.
Nathason's Admin. v. Grait's Admit.

In an action for slander, the declaration contained three counts
uporr the general issue being pleaded; the cause was tried, and the
jury found a general verdict fbr the plaintiff for fif pounds.
The first count in the declaration was for words not actionable in
themselves; the words in the other counts were actionable.
A motion was made to arrest the judgment, because the damages
were general upon all the counts.
The counsel for the plaintiff insisted that the judgment could not
be anested in Wto,but tiere must be a venire de =o, or the verdict
may be amended by the judge's notes, and entered upon the good
counts. The coufrt were of opinion that there should not be a venire de
mvo ; and that as the damages were entire, the judgment must be
arrested in toto.
Lawrence, Justice, said " that the plaintiff ought not to be at liberty
to amend by the judgels notes in the case, because the evidehce
applied as well to the bad as to the good counts." Edwards v.
Hopkins,'Douglass' .Rep.
361.
In assumpsit, the declaration containid several counts---some upon
promises made by the testator, others on promises made by the defendants themselves. To the first set of counts pilene administravit
was pleaded, and the, general issue as to the others.
The jury found for the plaintifif with £147 damages, and a general verdict was entered.
The solicitor-general obtained a rule to show cause why thejudgmeat should not be arrested, on the ground that the verdict was
general, and the counts inconsistent, and such as require different
judgments to be.entered-viz. : judgment de bonis testatores on those
where the promises were said to be by the testator; and de bonis
propriis on the others. Baldwin, for the plaintifi, afterwards obtained a cross-rule for the defendants to show cause why the postea
should uot be amended by the judge's minutes, and a verdict entered
for the plaintiffs 6nly on the counts to which the evidence given at
the trial applied, and for the defendants on the other counts.
Buller, Justice, said that there was this distinction, that if there
was only evidence at the trial upon such of the counts as were good
and consistent, a general verdict might be altered from the notes of
the judge, and entered only on these counts; but, if there was any
evidence which applied to the other bad or inconsistent counts, as
if, for instance, in an action for words, where some actionable words

JANUARY TERM,1844.

271

Matheson's Admin. v. Grant's Admin.

are laid, and some not actionable, and evidence given of both sets
of words, and a general verdict,) then the postea would not be
amended, because itwould be impossible for the judge to say on
-which of the counts the jury had found the damages, or how they
had apportioned them; that, in. such a case, the only remedy is by
awarding ? venire de novo.
The rule to arrest the judgment was discharged, and the other rule
made absolute, but upon the payment of costs, including those on
the motion in arrest of judgment.
The case of Bois v. Bois, 1 Levins, 134, was an action for slander.
The declaration contained two counts. The words laid in one of the
counts were actionable, in- the other not.
The damag-es being entire, judgment was stayed.
Petrei,, executor of Stable, v. Hannay, 3 Term Rep. 659.
This was an action for money paid by the plaintiff as executor,
and also for money paid -by the testator to the use of the defendant,
for money had and received by the defendant to the use of the plaintiffi as executors, and for money had and received to the use of the
testator in separate counts; there were two pleas, the general issue
and the statute of limitations. A verict having been found for the
plaintiff generally on thie first issue, and no notice taken of the last,
the defendant brought a writ of.error to the House of Lords on two
grounds, that no verdict wa given on the second plea, aid that two
separate demands could not be joined in one action.
The plaintiffs then obtained a rule to show cause in the .King's
Bench, why he should not be at liberty to ameld according to the
judge's notes, by adding a verdict for him upon the second plea, and
by eatering the verdict on the counts for money paid by the executors, and for money had and received to their use. Buller, Justice, in delivering the opinion of the court, said, such
amendments have frequently been permitted. The entering the'verdict was a slip of the clerk in not entering the verdict for. the plaintiffs
on the second plea. As to the second objection, he said he was
clearly of opinion that it was not error, for though an executor when
suing for a debt due to the testator, would not join a debt due .to
himself in his-own right, yet it was the constant practice to join in
the same declaration several counts for money had and received by
the defendant to the use of-the testator, and to the use of the executor
as made.
In the case of Hooker v. -Qqilter, 2 Strang. 1271, there were three

272

SUPREME COURT.
[ atheson's Admin. v. Grant's AdmigL

counts in the declaration as executrix, and the fourth was for the use
and occupation of the plaintiff's house. Judgment by default in
K. B. and reversed in error.
Per,cuiiam. There being no verdict, we can presume nothing,
but that the fourth count is, as it appears, in her own right, which
cannot be joined.with the others, and the damages are entire.
This case of Hooker v. Quilter is more fully and Vetter reported
in 2 Wilson Rep. 171, vide this report,
J''scnm (attorney-general;) for the defendants in error.
It is objected,
1st. That the case does not fall within the rule by which a plaintiflP is permitted to enter thu verdict as upon one count in his declaration, and to enter a nollep osiqu upon the other counts.
2d. That conceding the case to be within the rule, the court below
erred in:vacating the order to arrest the judgment of November term,
1840, because of the lapse of time; and,
3d That there was no evidence in the case by which, a verdict
o# the firit count in the declaration, upon which the final judgment
was rendered, could be supported.
As to the first objection: There are two clases of cases in which
a verdict may be amended by the notes of the judge, or other evidence, so as to avoid the objection to the sufficiency of the declaration'of the plaintiff. .The first, where there 'is a general verdict, and
the counts are consistent,,although some be bad; the second, where
the coants are inconsistent, although severally good. In the one
case, all that is necessary to be shown to make the rule applicable is,
that the evidence applied to the good as well as to the bad c6untV.
In the 6ther, it must be shown that the evidence applied exclusively
to the count upon which the verdict is sought to be rendered.
19 Wendell's Rep. 628, Lusk if. Hastings.
The present is a case falling within the second class--of inconsistent counts-in which the jidgment was arrested for misjoinder. To
justify the order of the court, therefore, all that is necessary to bring
the case within ,the rule, is to show that the evidence offered below
was exclusively applicable to the first count of the plaintiffs declaration.

This will be done in the discussion of the 3d objection. Assuming
for the present that it is so, the following cases will make it clear that
the case under review falls within the rule.

JANUARY T.ERM, 1844.

273

Matheson's Admin..v; GranOs Admin.

Eddowes and another v. EIopkins and another, executors of Harris, 1 Douglas, 376, which establishes the principle that ccwhere
there is a general verdict on a declaration consisting of difierent
counts, some of which are inconsistent or bad in point'of law, and
evidence has only been given on the good or consistent counts, the
verdict-may be amended by the judge's notes.".
Williams v. Breedon, 1 Bosanquet andyuller,-329, ccwhere evidence has been given on a bad count aswell as on a good count, if
it appears by the judge's notes that the jury calculated the damageson evidence applicable to the good count only."
The cases of Knightley v.'Briel, 2 Maule and Selwyn,*533, and
Doe v. Perkins, 3 Term Reports, 749, maintain the same well-established doctrine.
As to the second objection: The character of the case having been
thus shown to be such as to bring it within the rule for amendment,
the second inquiry is, whether the lapse of time. interposed any obstacle to the exercise of the power by the court.
That it did not, will be demonstrated by the following cases:
Doe v. Perkins, 3 Term Repqrts, 760, in which the court use this
strong language, cc for that, according to the practice of amending by
the judge's notes,-which was of infinite utility to the suitors, and was
as ancient as the time of Charles'the Firstthe amendment might be,
made at any time."
Addington v. Allen, 11 Wendell, 421, and Chancellor Walwort's
opinion in the same case, 384, 385.
Same case 1 Wendell, 21,5.
Soalso in the case of John Barnard v..John-Whiting and others,
7 -Mass. Reports, 858, the same principle is directly affirmed.
And in the case of NoahbCla k v. Ezekiel Lambr,executor, &c.,
8 Pickering's Reports, 415, WIlde,.Justice, satisfactorily reviews the
Eriglish and American authorities upon this question, and in a strong
case maintains the existence of the power asserted by the court below
in rendqring the present judgment.
As to the third objection: The authority to vacat the order therefore existing, the remaining inquiry is, whether, upon the matter
appearing in t1e record, the verdict was properly applied, and the
judgment rendered upon the first count of the declaration.
The first objection taken by the plaintiffs in error on this point is
to the form of the declaration. To this it is only necessary to reply,
that'the irregularities to which exception is taken, if they exist, which
VOL. H-35

274

SUPREME COURT.
Matheson's A&min. v. Grant's Adtnin.

is by no means conceded, are cured by the verdict. There is enough
apparent upon the first count of the declaration to show the nature
and extent of the demand.
The partnership is expressly averred between Grant and McGuffie
-the survivorship of Grant-the promise to.pay Grant and Mc Guffie
-the promise to pay the plaintiff, administrator of Grant, not plaintiffs, (see amiended record returned with certiorari,) and the very
instruments recited in the declaration contaitk the promise of Matheson to pay Grant and McGuffie, &c.
But it is said that there is no profert of the letters of administra-.
tion. None such was, necessary; and if it wa , it is conceded that
the omission is mired by the verdict.
It is likewise sdid-that there was no evidence in the case jastifying
for thethere
plaintiff upon this count in the declarationa verdict
1st. Becaiise
is no sufficient proof of the partnetship between
Grant and McGuffle; the only evidence, it is said, being that found
in the deposition of Chapman Levy.
if this were so., it is submitted that it would be abundantly sufficient; at any rate, it.was testimony to go to the jury, who iy their
verdict have affirmed its sufficiency.
But is it true that this is the only evidence.? The note and duebill executed by Matheson were given to Grant and McGuffe jointly,
and whether general partners or not is a matter of not the slightest
importance. Matheson himself, by the execution of the instruments,
admits thepi to be jointly entitled to, their contents, and that admission, coupled with the declaration deposed'to 'by Levy, conclusively
shows them to have been partners.
2. It is alleged that there is no proof of the death of Grant and
McGuffie, 6r either of them, and the testimony of Chapman Levy is-:
again referred to as being insufficient. To this objection the answer
given to the -last may be repeated~--the evidence'was for the jury,
and their yerdict excludes all iifquiry into its sufficiency.
But was the question in the state of the pleadings open before ihe
jury? Or, was it incumbent upon the plaintiff below to offer any
to show the death of Grant and McGuffie. He sued, as the
evidence
administrator
of Grant, the survivor of McGuffie. Tols declarati6n,
in that -character, the defendants plead the general issue, 'nd they
thereby admitted the character in which the plaintiff sued. 1 Peters,
450; Peake's Evidence, 342; 2 Lord Raymond, 824; 3 Day';
Reports, 303 ; 2 Dallas, 100; 4 Bibb, 391 ; 6 Monroe,- 52, 59.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

275

Matheson's Admin. v. Grant's Admin.

Besides, the grant of administration to the plaintiff was evidence
of the death. Greenleaf's Evidence, 587; 10 Pickeriig, 515.
It is furthtr objected, that if any count in the declaration was supported, it was the" second count, and that because of the averments
of the plaintiff in the second' count of his declaration. -But these
averments are not evidence. They are but the mode of stating the
plaintiff's cause of action, and the proper subject of inquiry is, what
was the state of the proof as shown-by the record.
i reference to this it is said, that the note produced in evidence
is endorsed by Grait and McGuffie. Biit that endorsement is in
blank, and transfers no property in the note. Until the. blank is filled
up, which a holder, for value might at any time do, the legal title
to the note remained in-the payees. The motive of the endorsiment
too is apparent, having been doubtless made when it was transmitted
to Mr. Levy for collection; and the possession of the due-bill payable tro
bearer, by'the plaintiff, was in virtue of his character as administrator.
To negative the idea of a legal transfer by a blank endorsement,
the c ounsel for the defendant in error refers to the following cases:
2 Strange, 1103; 1Ld.Raym.443; 1Comyns, 3111; 2Burr. 1227;
5.I'Mar. dnd Johns. 115; 6 Har.and Johns. 140, 527.
But it is insisted by the defendant in error that the. amendment
allowed, assuming, what is supposed to be unquestionable, that the
evidence supports'the judgment rendered, is nothing more.than the
exercise of a discretion by the c 6urtI and ,therefore not a fit subject
of review in a conrt of error. Marine Insurance Co. of Aleandria
v. Hodgson, 6 Cranch, 206; Welch v. Mandeville,'7 Cranch,
152; Walden v. Craig, 9 Wheat. 576; Chevrac v. Rheinecker;
11 Wheat. 280; Exparte Bradsreet, 1 Peters, 647; Life Insurance
Company v. Wilson's heirs, 8 Peters, 306 ; the same, (Jones arguen-

do,) 302 .
Ogden, in reply.
It i contended, on'the part of the.plaintiTs in error, that there was
no sufficidnt proof of the partnership between Grant and McGuffie,
,and that there is no Vroof'of the death of Grant and McGuffie, or of
either of them; that this partnership, and death -nd the survivorship
of Grant are material allegations in the declaration, and are all put in
issue by the plea of the general issue.
To this itb answered by Mr. NT'elson, that there was evidence enoufgh

276

SUPREME COURT.
Matheson's Admin. v. Grants Admin.

"to go to the jury, and by their verdict they have affirmed its sufficiency."
It is contended that there was-no legal evialence of a partnership
between Grant and McGuffie upon which the jury would be warranted
to find its existence.
In page 12 of the case, Levy says: "I was acquainted with Mr.
McGuffie, of the firm of Grant and McGuffie, who were said to have
c a mercantile house'in Charleston." This is no evidence of the
existence of any such house in Charleston. It is at best mere hearsay, and does not amount to a general reputation, which might have
been sufficient evidente to .have justified the' verdict of the jury.
But the attorney-general seems to suppose that the note having been
given by Matheson to Grant and McGuffie jointly is an admission of
the co-partnership between those gentlemen.
The note being given to Grant and McGuffie may amount to an
admission that he was indebted to such a fir., but it by no means
amounts to'an admission as to who were the persons composing that
firm. The ghneral issue denies that the persons who are alleged in
the declaration were the persons composing the firm; it was necessary,
therefore, for the plaintiff below to hav'e proved his allegation upon
that point.
But it is contended that in order to maintain the plaintiffIs declaration it was'incumbent upon him to prove the death of Grant and
McGuffie, the survivorship of Grant, and the death of Grant.
It is said by the attorney-general that the plea of the general issue
admits all these facts.
This is a great mistake; it admits that the plaintiff is the administrator of Grant but it admits nothing else.
The case of Conrad v. The Atlantic Insurance Company, cited from
1 Peters's Reports of casesdecided in this court, decides most properly
that it is too late upon the trial to insist upon proof of the plaintiff
being a corporation. That it should have been taken advantage of
by a plea in abatement.
And Mr. Peake, in his Law of Evidence, 342, in the passage cited
by the attorney-general, says, cWhen an action is brought by an
executor or administrator on a cause of action arising in the. lifetime
of the deceased, and the defendant pleads only the general issue, it
is sufficient for the plaintiff to piove the same facts as must have been
adduced in evidence by the testator or intestate, had the action been
brought by him."

JANUARY TERM;. 1844.

277

Mathesons Admin. v. Grant's Admin.

Now, suppose Mr.Grant had brought-this action, must he not have
proved, that he had been a partner with McGuffie at the time the
note was given? Must he not have proved that McGuffie was dead,
and that he had survved him?
Mr. Peake lays down the law upon this subject with great accuracy,
and-he is supported by all the adjudged cases. The defendant cannot, under the general issue, contro:'ert the fact thatthe plaintiff is
the administrator of Grant, and the letters of adminitration may be
evidence of the death of Mr,Grant. Every other material allegation
in the declaration must be proved.
It is:
contended by the attorney-general, in his argument, that the
name of Grant and McGuflie endorsed upon this note transferred no
property in it, and that, therefore, the note was no evidence under
the secorid count of the declaration: With great deference to the
attomey-general, I contend that the endorsement m blank accompanied.by a delivery of the note to the endorsee, is an absolute transfer
of the note. The second count in this declaration states in express
terms the endorsement and delivery of the note to Stewart, the endorsee. I understand the law is being now perfectly settled that a
blank endorsement upon a bill of exchange or promissory note pay:
able to A. B. or order transfers he note to the endorsee. See Chitty
on Bills, 173. See the case of Linbarrow v. Macon, cited in note in
6 East Rep. 21.
In the case now under consideration, the plaintiff; in his declaration, states this transfer to,him, ahd his right to recover under it; he
cannot, therefore, be permitted to deny that such tranfer was bona

fide.
As I understand the law, an endorsement in blank is an absolute
transfer of the. note,, from the original payee, who by that endorse.
ne'nt passes his whole interest in it. But the endorsement being
in blank gives the endorsed a -right to restrict its effect, by making
it (the note) payable to some particular person or order.
As to the question whether this liberty to amend the verdict was
not given.upon an application which could not be made at so late a
day,I shall hot add any thing to what was said in my opening argument, except to examine some of the. cases which have been cited
by the attorney-general.
The case of Doe v. Perkins, 3 Term Rep. 750.
Io nhition had beefi made to arrest-the judgment. It was a motion to set aside an'order which had been made by a judge to amend
2A

278

SUPREME COURT.
Mathesons Admin. v. Grant's Admin.

the postea, and a judgment which had been entered thereon, and upon
which error had been brought and for a new trial. The court said,
" that according to the practice of amending by the judge's notes,
which was of infinite utility to suitors, and was as ancient as the
time of Charles the First, the amendment might be made at any time."
Suppose, in that case, that a motion had been made by the defendant to arrest the judgment, which motion had been argued by-counsel,
and the judgment had :been ordered to be arrested. Did the court,
-when they said this motion to amend may be made at any time, mean
to say that after waiting two terms thereafter, and until another judge
comes to hold the court, that it ivas time enough to call upon that
judge to review what had been done in the court two terms before,
for the purpose of.setting aside whathad been then done? Iforbear
to make any observations upon the contest in which such a case would
have a tendency to involve the judges of the same court. If the court
below were w'rong in arresting the judgment, the remedy of the party
was by writ of error.
In the case of Barnard v. Whiting, 7 Mass. Rep. 358.
There no order had been made to arrest the judgment; a motion
was made. to arrest the judgment, and upon the hearing of that motion it was denied, and leave was given to amend.
In the -case cited from 11 Wendell it will be found that a motion
to arrest the judgment and for a new trial had been made by the
defendant and denied by the court, and judgment was entered for
the plaintiff.
The defendant brought a writ of error to the Court of Errors, upon
the ground that the judgment ought to have been arrested, and the
motion tq arrest was the very question brought up on the record in
that case.'
However that question was disposed of, the judgment was arrested,
and there -was an end of it.
The question here is not what a superior court, upon a writ of
error, might do; the question is, can the Same court review and
reverse its own decision after the term in -which it is made.
Not having 8 Pickering's Reports in my library, I have not been
able to examine the ease cited"from it; and as Iam desirous of sending this argument by the mail of this afternoon, I have not time to
get the book.
One word as to the rale permitting an amendment of a verdict.
The cases will all be found to be cases where the counts are all laid

JANUARY TERM; 1844.

279

Matheson's Admin. v. Grants Admin.,

in the same "right, and where the amounts claimed are claimed by
the same person in the same right. This is not the case of good and
bad counts; the counts may be all good, but it is a case where aman brings an action in his name as administrator, and another a tion
in his own individual right.- ' No such action can be maintained, and
no amendment was ever permitted in such a case. But we are told
that 'the amendment is*Latter of discretionin the court, and that no
error lies in such a case.
The motion to arrest a judgment is made upon purely legal
grounds' and never is a matter of discretion in the comut whether they
will grant it or not.
The time when a motion to amend is to be made, in the court
where the judgment has been arrested, is not matter of discretion,
but of law.
But if this order t6 amend is a mere matter of discretion, how does
it happen that, in the case cited from 11 Wendell, a 'writ of error was
brought in a. case where the Supreme Court of this state had exercised their discretion on the subject.
Mr. Justice STORY.delivered the opinion of the court.
This is the case of'a writ of error to the Circuit Court ofthe United
States for the southern district of ,labama.
' The original action was assumpsit brought by Stewart (the defendant in error) as administrator of Alexander Grant, whb was the surviving partner of the, firm of Grant and McGuffie, against Murphy
and Darrington as administrators of Matheson upon a certain note
and due-bill made and signed by Matheson 'in his lifetime' The
note~was as follows: " Charleston, 30th Sept., 1818. Four months
after date I promise to pay Grant and McGuffie, or order, three thousand four hundred and twenty-eight dollars,, eighteen cents, value
received." The due-bill was as follows- " Charleston, 25th February, 1820. Due to Grant and McGuffie or bearer, on demand, three
hundred and forty-four dollars sixty-six cents, with interest from 4ate."
The note was endorsed in blank, " Grant and McGuflje."
The declaration .contained two counts. The first count is by
Stewart as administrator upon both instruments, and upon promises
made by Matheson in his lifetime, and by his administrators since his
decease, to pay him (Stewart) as administrator. The second is upon.
both instruments, stating the note to have been endorsed by Grant
and McGuffie.to him, (Stewart,) and the due-bill to.have been ttans-

SUPREME COURT.
SMathesons Admin. v. Grant's Admin.

ferred to him by delivery. So that in legal effect he claimed in the first
count as admini trator, and in the second, in his own personal right.
At the trial (for it is unnecessary.to state the pleadings) the jury found
a general verdict for the plaintiffE, upon both counts, at the November
term of the, court, 1840. And at the same term a motion was made
in arrest of judgment for the misjoinder of the counts, which motion
was sustained, and thereupon it was brdered by the court that the
judgment be arrested. At the November term df the curt, 184-1, a
motion was made to set aside the order in arrest of-judgment, and
for, leave to. amend the verdict s3 that the same might be entered
upon the first count, and a 7plle prosequi entered upon the other
count. In support of this motion, an affidavit was made by the
plaintiff's counsel, that the only evidence offered at the trial by the
plaintiff ,was the deposition of Chapman Levy, Jacbb. Aicon, and
McKenzie, and the note and due-bill which were on 'the files
of the court; and that no evidence was offered by the defendants;
and that the cause went to the jury upon the above depositions of
the plaintiff alone. Upon this evidence after notice to and hearing
the counsel for the defendants, who offered no evidence in opposition
-to the motion, the court made an order, vacating the order in arrest of
judgment, and allowing the verdict to be amended'by entering the same
'on the first count, and that judgment be entered upon that count nunc
pro tunc for the plaintiff. Judgment was accordingly entered thereon;
and. fromthat judgment the present writ of error has been brought.
The main question which has been argued is, whether the court
had authority to make the amendment at the time and, under the circumstances stated in the record. It is observable that there was no
judgment in the presdnt case originally entered, that the plaintiff. takes
nothing by his wvrt.non obstante veredicto; but a simple order passed
arresting the judgment, which suspended all further proceedings
until the court should put them again in motion, but still left the
cause pending in the.court.. It is a case, thereforie, in a far more
favourable position for the exercise of the power of amendment, than
it would have been if final judgment had passed agains the plaintiff,
or if judgment had passed for the plaintiff and a writ of -error had
been brought to reverse it; for in the latter case not only is the writ
deemed in law'a new action; (a) but in contemplation of law..
of =a-ror
the record itself is supposed to be removed froia the court below.
(a) 2;Tidd's Practice, 1141; 9th edition, 1828.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

. 281

Matheson's Admin. G. Grant's Admin.

And first, as to the time of maing-thd amendment. It is said that
it should have been either at the term when the order for the arrest
ofjudgment was made, or at the farthesf at the next succeeding May
term of the court; and it was too late to make it a-whole year afterwards. But there is no time absolutely fixed, -within which such an
amendment should be moved. AlI that the court requires is that it.
should be done within a reasonable time; and when no such change
of circumstances shall have occurred as to render it inconvenient or
inexpedient. Nothing is more common than motions to amend the
record after a writ of error has been brought; nay after a writ of
error has been argued in the court above, and sometimes even after
judgment in the court 6f error, pending its' gession. Especially in
cases of misjoinder of counts, which are incompatible with "dach
other, as well as in cases where there are several counts, som'of
which are bad and ome good, and a general verdict given for the
plaintiff, such applications, when made within a reasonable time, are
usually gran.ed. after error brought and the verdict allowed to-be
amended so as to be entered upon the. good counts,, or upon the
counts not incompatible with each other. This is most usually done
upon the judge's notes of the evidence at the trial,'establishing upon
what counts the 'evidence was in fact given -or to which it was
properly addressed or limited. But it may be done upon any other
evidence equally clear and satisfactory, wvhich may be submitted to
the consideration of the court. In the present case We know fromthe most authentic sources' contained in the record itself, and not
disputed by any one, the whole evidence which was given at th6
trial. The case, therefore, fills directly within the range of the principles above stated. The practice is a most salutary one, and is in
furtherance of justice and to prevent the manifest mischiefs from mere.
slips of counsel at the trial, haviig'othing to do with the real merits
of the case. The authority to allow such amendments is very broaddly'
given to the courts, of the United States by the 32d section of the
Judiciary act of 1789, ch. 20, ahfd quite as broadly, to say -the
least, as it is possessed by any other courts in England or America;
and it is upheld upon principles of the .soundest. protective public
policy.
Without citing the authorities at large, which are very numerous
upon this point, it will be sufficient to -state a few only, which are
the most full and -direct to the purpose. -InEddowes v. Hopkins,
1 Doug. R. 376, there was ageneral verdict on a declaration consisting
2 A2
VOL. II.-36

282

SUPREME COURT.
Matheson's

Admin. v. Grant's Admin.

of different counts; some of which were inconsistent in point of law,
it was held that as evidence had only been given upon the consistent
counts, the verdict might be amended by the judge's notes at the
trial. The same point was decided in Harris v. Davis, 1 Chitty, Rep.
625. In Williams's Exec. v; Breedon, 1 Bos. and Pull. 329, where
a general verdict was given on t vo counts, one of which vas, bad,
and it appeared by the judge's notes that the jury calculated the
damhges in evidence applicable 'to the good count only, the court
allowed the verdict to be amended aid entered on the'good count
only, though evidence was ,given applicable to the bad count also.
In Doe q?.Perkins, 3 Term R. 749, the court allowed the verdict to
be amended after error brought and joinder in error by striking olt
certain words from the postea. An objection was on that occasion
taken that the amendment could not be made after the expiration
of one term after the trial. But the court said that there wasno
foundation for this objection ; for that acc6rding to the practice of'
amending by the judge's notes, which was of infinite utility to suitors,
,.and was as andient as, the time of Charles the First, the amendment
might be made at any time. In Henry v. The Mayor, &c. of Lyme
Rtegis, 6 Bing. R. 100, a verdict had been taken by consent on two
countsand upon application the court amended the postea, by entering it in one count to ivhich. the evidence applied, there being in
fact but one cause ot action, although the judge, who presided at the
trial., declined to interfere. In Richardson v. Mellish, 3 Bing. R. 334,
S. 0. in error, 7 Barn. and Cress. 819, where a general verdict
was given on a declaration, some of the counts of -ihich were bad,
the court allowed th? postea to be amended, and entered up judgment upon asingle co.unt after argumentin error; and the court in ,ror
sanctioned thd proceeding. In Harrison v. King, 3 Barn. and Ald.
161, there was a general verdict for the plaintiffl and an application
was -made to the court "toamend the verdict on the judge's notes after
the lapse of eight years, and after the judgment had been reversed
upon error;, but. the court refused it upon the ground of the long
delay. In Clarke v. Lamb, 8 Pick. R. 415, the Supreme Coirt of
Massachusetts, after a geheral review of the authorities, allowed the
verdict to be amended upbn the judge's notes.(a)
We think then that the objection taken at the bar to the amendment and entry of the judgment is not maintainable, and that the
(a) See also"2 Tid('s Prac, 901, 9th'ed. 1828.

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

283

Matheson's Admin. v. Grantes Admin.

court acted within its rightful authority and jurisdiction in the allowance thereof. .
-Another objection, rather suggested thanf-insisted on, isi that there is
no profert of the letters of administration. Whether that would constitute any objection whatsoever, in the state of Alabama, is a mat.
ter purely of local practice and proceedings. It is well known.that
in many states of the union no profert of such letters is ever made,
asj for example, in Massachusetts and other New England states. But
the objection; if it has any foundation, is undoubtedly cured by the
verdict.
Another objection is, that the first cofint 'does not sufficiently allege
a partnership between Grant and McGuffie, nor that Grant was' the
survivor of them. We thinl otherwise. The first count in theamended record brought upon the certiorari is by Stewart as administrator of Grant, and itstates in the introductory part that hewvs the
survivor of McGuffie, late merchants trading under the firm of Grant
and McGuffie; and alleges promises by Matheson to them in their
lifetime, and by Matheson in' his lifetime. and by his administrators
to the plaintiff to pay the sums of money stated in the count,'and
alleges as a -breach the ndn-payment thereof, either to Grant and"
McGuffie in their lifetime or to the plaintiff since their-de66ase.
The count certainly i&not drawn with entire technical precision and
accuracy; but after verdict it must be taken to be sufficien' for all the
purposes-of substantial justice.
But then it is said, .that if the first count is good, still the evidence
offered at the trial was not sufficient' o establish any partnership between Grant and McGuffie;.and if the evidence did establish any
case, it was a case within the scope of the second count and not of
the first. Wd think neither branch of.the objection is maintainable.There was certainly evidence enough to go to the jury on-this point,
and the very instrumhent on'which the suit was brought, pimafacie,
imported a partnership at least in these transactions; and the jury,
by their verdict, must be presumed to have found the.fact in the
affirmative. In the next place, although the note was endorsed in
blank by Grant and McGuffie, that endorsement was no proof that
the interest on the same had passed to Stewart, as alleged in the
second count, and 'the possession of the due-bill by Stewart wa§ no
necessary proof that he held t as owne in his Qwn right. Foraught
that- appkrs, he may have held them both solely in his c~pacity a .
administrator; and he had a right, and the sole right, to say in which

284

SUPREME COURT.
Stoddard et, al. v. Chambers.

capacity he elected to hold, as owner, or as administrator. He has
elected the latter; and the evidence is sufficient to establish that
right, pJriafacie. Bes-ides, it can be of no concern to the plaintiff
in error on which count the .verdict is taken, for in either case it is
equally a good foundation for a valid judgment against him, to the
extent of the sums due thereon.
There is yet another view of fhis matter. The question of the
amefidment was a question o.f discretion in the court below upon its
own review of the facts in evidence; and we know of no .ght or
authority in this court upon a writ of error to examine such a question, or the conclufqiorn to which the court below arrived upon a survey of the facts, which seem to us to have belonged appropriately
and exclusively to that court.
Upon the whole, in our opinion there is no error of the court below
in the amendment and proceedii tgs complained of, and the judgment
is therefore affirmed with costs.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of-the record
from the Circuit- Court of the United- States' for the southern district
of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
] t is now here oidered and djudged by this court, that the judgment
of the said Circuit Court, inthis cause be, and the same is hereby
affiried with costs and damages at the rate of six per cent. per annum.

SIMON.STODDARD," CURTIS STODDARD, DANIEL STODDARD, ANTHONY.
STODDARD,

WILLIAM -STODDARD,

JOSEPH BiUNNELL .AND LUcy' His

wwn, Jobs Foma .A LAvn 'HmS wwE, JLrcy HoxiE, DANIEL
*MoRcAN AND AvA ,8.wriE,. PLiNPs IN' E4ROR, V,HARRY W.
CHAMERS.

A deed okland in Missodiri,in 1804-, attested by'two witnesses, purporting to have
been executed in the presence of a syndic, presented to the commissioners of
* United States in1811, and again brought forward As the foundation of a claim
'fore the c6.mntissioners in 1835, must be considered as evidbnce for a'jury
If i't was not -objected to in thd court loelow, it cannot be in this court..
A confirmation under the act of 18i6 to the original( claimant and his legal
representatives, entred, by way of estop el, to his assignee.

