JAN-UARY TERM, 1844.

. M8

Dade v. Irwin's'Exec-utor.

by counsel.- On consideration whereof, It is now here. ordered and
adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Circnit Court
in this cause ,be, and 'the same is -hereby affirmed with costs and
damages, at the rate of six per cent. per annum.

DADE,. COMPLArNANT, v. THOMAS IRwIN, -JuN., EXECUTOR OF
THOMAs IRWIN, DECEASED, AND WI.LLIAM L. HODGSON, DEFENP-

JANE

ANTS.

A court of equity will noit interfere; where the complainant has a proper
remedy at law, or where the complainant claims a set-off of adebf arising
under a distinct transaction, unless there is some peculiar equity calling for
relief.
Nor will it .interfere where the set-off claimed, is old and stale, with regard to
which the complainant has observed a long silence, and where the .correctness of the set-off is a matter of grave doubt.

TiS was an appeal from the Chrcuit Court of the United States
for the District of Columbia, in and for the county of Alexandria,
sitting as a court of equity.
The case was this.
In the years 1824 and 1828 Jane Dade -exeutea two deeds of
trust to one William Herbert, for the purpose of securing a debt
which she owed to Thomas Irwin,.the deceased.
In 1830, Thomas Irwin, junior, the executor of Thomas Irwin,
(who had died in the mean time,) filed a bill against Jane Dade for
the sale of the property. Herbert, the trustee, was alleged to be a
iunatic, and the bill therefore prayed that a commissioner might be
appointed'to make the sale.
Jane Dade in her answer admitted the justice of the claim as stated
in the bill. A decree was. entered in'conformity with the bill, ahd
William L. Hodgson appointed commissioner to carry the same into
effect.
On the 21st of November,'1834, Jane Dade filed another bill on
the equity side of the court, stating that the sale was to take place in
a few days, and praying that it might be saspended. She alleged
that she was entitled to a:credit under the following circumstances i.
that in 1817 she had loaned to one James I"win $680 ; that in 1821,

884

SUPREME COURT.
Dade v,.rrwin's Executor.

he executed his promissory'note to hr for $826 63, which was the
amount of the above sum with interest; that, to secure the payment
ofthe note, he, assigned a debt due to him from Henderson and Company, which debt was guarantied by Thomas Invin, who had become
liable for the same; and that the amount of this debt, with interest,
should be deducted from the sum for which Thomas Irwin's executor
was about to sell her property. The bill further alleged that Thomas
Irwin, the deceased, had becbme personally liable from having sold
some cordage to Henderson. and Company, ton"rary to his instructions. The assignment of the debt from James Irwin to Jane Dade,
(through her agent, John Adam,) and the admission of a personal
liability by Thomas Irwin, were alleged to be in the following
terms:I do hereby assign to John Adam, the debt due me by Alexander
Henderson for cordage sold him by Thomas Irwin, as my agent, for
which debt said Irwin is himself liable, having received said Henderson's note without my consent. This assignment. is made to
secure to Jane Dade the payment of six hundred and -eighty dollars,
with interest thereon from the 16th of October, one thousand eight
hundred and seventeen, money borrowed from her by said Adam for
my use, for which I have given' hipi my note, payable in eighteen
-months, -With interest.
Given under my hand and seal, this 20th day of May, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-one.
JAmEs IRwiN. [Seal.]

(Endorsed)

JoHN AD x..

Test: LEwis CoLE.
Endorsed. If the withindebt cannot be recovered from Alexander
Henderson, I am liable for the same: provided full time be allowed
for the prosecution of the suit.
THomArs Inwn.
The bill further alleged that full time had been allowed for the
prosecution of the suit against Henderson, and that-there was no prospect of any thing being recovered.
Upon filing this bill, an injunction was granted to stay the sale.
In February, 1835, Thomas Irwin, Jun., the executor, filed his
answer, denying all knowledge of the note said to have been given
by James Irwin, and denying the assignment above recited. The
answer admitted that Thomas Irwin had sold some cordage to Henderson and Company, for which he had taken their note; that the

JANUARY T'ERM, 144.

385

Dade v, Irwip's Executor.

note had been put in suit, judgment rendered upon. it, and execution
-issued'; that Henderson was discharged under the insolvent act; that
the recovery.of the money due on the said note being conSidered 'as
desperbte, his testator had charged the amount to his principals,
James Irwin and Company. The answer denied altogether the signature Of Thomas Irwin, guarantying the debt; and alleged sundry other
.matters to show the absence of equity in the claim of the complaiiant.
In November, 1835, the court refused to dissolve the.injunction,
.and- suggestedthat an issue should be made up, to be fried at the
bar of the court sitting as a.court of law,' to try the question of the
genuineness of the signature of Thomas Irwin..
This was done, but the jury were not ableto agree, and-were discharged.
Numerous depositions were then taken arid filed, and*the case
came on to be heard, when the court decreed that .the injunction
should be dissolved and the bill dismissed -with costs.
The complainant, Jane Dade, prayed an appeal to this court.
JVeale (in a printed argument) and Brent, for the appellant.
Jones, for the .defendant in error.

,JVeale, for the appellant:
This cause which comes up by appeal -from the, Circuit Court of
Alexandria county, was upon the fin hearing in thecourt aforesaid,
dismissed by a majority of the court, for the following reasons:
1. Because,-in the. opinipn .ofet
majority of the court; the court had
not jurisdictionof the case sittin& as a Court of Chancery.
2. Because, there was'noconsideraion from which the defendant's
testator could be made liable, either on. account of the assumpsit in
writing endorsed on exhibit B, or for -blending ,his principal's goods
with his o.wn--taking a note therefor, and sueing and obtaining a
judgment. thdreon in his own name .for the two amounts so blended,
as the record prbves.
3. Because, the complainant [now appellant] forbore to press this
claim sooner, by way of set-off to the claim of the defendant's testator.
For these reasons a majority of the court 'dismissed the bill at- the
complainant's cost..- Dissentient-his honour the chief jujdge.
. These objections, coming as they do from the veryfontain
of.
justice, are justy entitled to high respect and -grave consideration.,
But however high and'pure the source -from whence they proceed,
still it is an open- question ,whether o'r
not they.are sustained by the
VOL. I.-49

-

2K

386

SUPREME COURT.
Dade v. Irwin's Executor.

facts of the case-the principles of equity jurisdiction, and the legal
liabilities of an agent to his principal. According to the regular
order of pleading, the first inquiry to be instituted is as to the jurisdiction of the court, and upon that point we cite and rely upon the
following authorities and accompanying remarks, to wit:
Johns. Digest, 102; 1 Wash. Rep.' 145; Barbour and Harrington's Digest, 2,4, 6, 11, 13, 15, 31, 46; 5 Term Rep. 603; 4 Bing.
459; 1P.Wms. 325,326; 2P. Wms.128; 4P.Wms.611; 5 Peters,
278; 2 Robinson's Practice, 1, 4; Tuckers.Commentary, b. 3, p.
404; 1 Story's Equity,' 82, and 442--446, sects. 462, 463,; 464.
In the case of Grandin and Leroy, 2 Paige, 509, it is said, -thatafter a defendant has answered a bill in chancery, and submitted
himself to the jurisdiction of the court without objection, it is too late
to insist that complaii~unt has a perfect remedy at law ;. unless the
court is wholly inc6mpetent, [as a Court of Chancery,] to grant the
relief sought by the bill."
Again it is said, "zthat whenever the remedy at law is doubtful or
difficult, a Court of Chancery has jurisdiction." American Insurance
C6mpany v. Fisk, 1 Paige, 90; Teague and Russell, 2 Stew. Rep. 426.
In the case of Ward v. Arredando, Hopkins, 203, the court say,
"the principle is that the jurisdiction may be upheld whenever the
parties, or the subject, or such portion of the subject as is within
the jurisdiction, are such that an efectual decree can be made and
enforced so as to do justice."
[Mr. .N" le then entered at great length upon the consideration of
the other two points. HiN aigument is omitted, because the decision
of the court was placed upon other grounds.]
Jones, for the defendant in error:
This base might appear, at the first blush, somewhat extraordinary,
as being a bill of injunction and an original bill to stay the regular
execution of a decree in equity, and to obtain relief against it four
years after it had been obtaihed by the now defendant, Irwin, against
the complainant, Jane Dade, with her full and unqualified consent
for the sale of real property to pay a debt which she had collaterally
secured hy a conveyance of the same property in trust, for the specific purpose of being* sold to raise the money for the payment of
such debt, if not paid in a given time. It may not, perhaps, seem
less extraordinary that, as an original bill it seeks not to set aside the
decree for fraud, and that it is not, in any sense'or shape, or in any

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

387

Dade v. Irwin's Executor.

aspect whatever, a bill of review; that no error either of law or
fact on the face ofthe decree, or in any part of the procedure',.nor
any new matter discovered since the decree, is at all within the
scope or objdct of the bill: but on the contrary, it is admitted that
the debt remains precisely as when the decree was obtained, except
a small payment since on account of the -interest, and about Which
there is not, nor ever was, the slightest dispute or difference between
the parties; and that the ,decree stands wholly unexceptionable in
itself, and in every part of the procedure, precedent and subsequent.
The whole scope and object of the bill is to get the benefit of a pretended set-of not discovered since the decree, but just'as 'well
knowu to the complainant before the decree, and in fact for many
years before the commencement of the suit in which the decree wps
rendered, as at the present time. The pretended set-off consisted of
.astale demand of more than thirty years standing, wholly uncon-nected with any transaction involved in that suit: The complainant had no original .interest or concern in it. The only-interest
claimed by her in it was from a pretended assignment of it by a third
person made seventeen' years after the demand..had accrued, mote
than nine years before the decree, and more than thirteen yemrs before
it was for the very first time brought out and asserted in this bill of
injunction. The demand itself consisted in a liability pretended to
have been incurred so long ago as 1804, by the.now defendant's testator, Thomas Irwin, for misconduct as agent of one James Irwin,
(from whom compiainant derives her claim as assignee of tHe cause
of action,) in having unduly indulged a debtor to whom he sold
goods.ihtrusted with him by James Irwin to sell on.commission; and
for which misconduct, if satisfactoily made out, James Irwin might
have recovered damages in a special action on the case: a cause of
action, therefore, purely and strictly legal in. its nature. The 'only
misconduct imputed to-the hgent is that of having taken a neg6tiable note, at 60 days, of the mercantile firm to whom he had sold
the. goods. Complainant pretends. that seventeen years after this
transaction, when the assignment was made, Thomas Irwin endorsed
on the assignment a conditional acknowledgment of his liability, if
the debt cannot be recovered of the principal debtor, provided a
reasona'ile time be allowed for the prosecution of the suit.
Now, supp9sing the complete establishment of this set-off in every
point of law and fact; setting aside all.consideration of the extraordi-nary length of time ithad been kept back in.silence and inaction;

so

U1PREME COURT.
Dade v. Irwin's Executor.

and waiving all objection to equity jurisdiction of a demand so exclusively legal; and in -fact,strictissimijuris,in its nature; the appellee
might be content to rely solely upon the well-known principles and
rules of equity law and practice, which establish--frst,'that a: final
decree enrolled (or what, with, us, is equivalent to enrolment in England, after the term at which the decree.was rendered has -passed
over,) itcannot be set aside, nor can any relief whatever be obtained
against it, by any sort of original bill, unless- frau&in the decree be
disfinctly-and circumstantially charged. Secondly, that even in the
case of a bill of review, either demonstrative error in matter of la*r
must be shown on the face of the decree, or the fresh discovery of
new matter since the decree; the materiality of which, and the
positive inability or' the complainant to have come at a previous
knowledge of it by using reasonable and active iiligence, must all
be clearly shown- by affidavit. Thirdly, that After a case for a bill
of review has been thus made out, it cannot be filed without the
special leave of the court; one of -the ordinary and standing conditions of which leave is, that the decree shall first.be performed. So
utterly foreign to all received -notions of equity law or practice is a
bill of injunction to stay the execution of a decree, and so utterly
any sort of relief by mbans of one decree in equity
inadmissible is"
against another decree in equity, but for one or other of the special
caues, and inone or other of the special modes of procedure aforesaid.
Where there is newly discovered evidence it must be shown to bematerial bnd relevant, and. to have been out of the power of the parfy
to have: prodifced before. Mitford on Pleading, 4 ed. pp. 84; 85;
16 Vesey, 354; 2 Ball and Beatty, 462; Aibler, 295; 5 Russell,
195, where the cases are all examined.
No bill of review can be filed until the decree is performed.
Iii'this case the ground of the-bill is deserted. The court had no
right to go back to an original claim in equity; and the claim is too
stale and doubtful in its nature to. be admitted. 1 Howard, 108.
[Mr. Jones was proceeding in his argument, when the court expressed a desire to hear the counsel on the other side.]
Brent, in reply and conclusion.
This is not merely a bill for an injunction, but also for a discovery
as to the time of the origin of the set-off. The suit against Hendersbn was prosecuted until 1835, and the complainant did not think
she had a right to Ale an original bill until the suit was decided.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

. 89

Dade v. rrwin's Execulor.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, sitting in Alexandria.
In the year 1824, the appellant, Jane Dade, became indebted to.
Thomas Irwin, the testator, and executed two deeds of trust for the
security of the debt. At the November term of the Circuit Court of
Alexandria county, 1830, Irwin, the executor, filed his bill to obtain
a decree of the sale of the estate so conveyed-in trust, and a decree
was made without objecticn for the sale, the appellant admitting the
justice of the claim ; and the original trustee having become insane,
William L. Hodgson was appointed trustee'to make the sale. After.
sundry delays, the trustee advertised the estate for sais on the 28th
of November, 1834; and on the day -preceding the intended sale
the present bill was filed by the appellant for an injunction against
the sale. The bill made no objection to the original debfor decree,
but simply set up a'claim, by -ay of set-off or discount, bf a totally'
distinct nature, and unconnected with' the 'original debt, as due by
the testator, to her, and for which she alleged in "her bill that sheought to receive a credit, to which in equity and strict-justice she wa&
entitled. The claim thus set up had its.origin in this manner. InMay, 1821, James Irwin gave his nQte for $826 63 to John Adam
or order, for Mrs. Dade, for money borrowed of her, which note was
endorsed by Adam, and on the same day James Irwin, as collateral
security therefor, assignedto Adam a debt due to him by-Alexander'
Henderson for cordage sold him by Thomas -Irwn'(the testator) ashis agent, and f6r which the assignment alleged Thomas Irwin wad.
liable, having received Henderson's note without the consent of James.
Irwin.. Upon the back of this assignment there now purpokts-to be
the following endorsement," IfZ the within debt cannot be.recovered
from Alexander Henderson, I am -liable for the san, provided full
time be allowed for the prosecution of the suit." "The supposed notereferred to in the assignment was, dated, in January, 1804,- and was
for the payment of $901 83 to the order of Thomas Irwini and was
signed by Alexander Henderson and Co. :This note the bill alleged
to include the debt due to James Ir*ifi. Judgnient was obtained
upon this note in 1805. Afterwards'Hendersjn, in 180, became
insolvent, and in 1816 a bill in equity was filed for the satisfaction
of the judgment out of'supposed effectsin the hands of dertain garnish:
ees, which suit was not finally disposed:of until October, 1835, afid
was then. abated by Hendrsoa's death.
', 2x2

890

SUPREME COURT.
Dade v. rrwin's Executor.

The answer to the present bill by Thomas Irwin, the executor,
denied the whole equity thereof. It denied that James Irwin ever
executed the supposed assignment. But he admitted the origin of
the debt -due by Henderson and Co., and that the note taken by the
testator-included it;- butthat Henderson having become insolvent he
was not liable for that amount, ind charged it in his accounts against
James 'Irwin and Co. He also denied the supposed endorsement on
the assignment to. be genuine, but alleged the same to be a sheer
fabrication.
The injunction prayed for by the bill was granted, and afterwards
the court directed an issue to be tried by a jury to ascertain whether
the testator's signature to the endorsement was genuine or not. That
issue was tried by a jury, who were unable to agree upon a verdict.
The order for an issue was then-rescinded) and the causecame on
for a final hearing in 1839, when the bill was -dismissed with costs.
There is a great deal of evidence- on both sides as to the genuineness
of the signature of the testator, and also as to the appearance of the
inkof the endorsement being that -of recent'writing. It is also remarkable that in the long interval between the time when the deed
of trust was given in 1824, 4nd -the time when the sale was advertised and the bill filed,'no demand was ever suggested by or on
behalf of Mrs. Dade for the present supposed debt due her as a.set:off
or otherwise. On the contrary, although repeated and earnest applications were made for delay of the sale, frbm the,time of the decree
in,1830 until the advertisement in 1834, and some correspondence
tookplace on the subject, no allusion whatsoever was made to any
such supposed claim or set-off;' but an entire silence existed on the
subject. Itis also somewhat singular, that when the bill upon the
trust deed was, filed and the decree therein obtained, no suggestion
- as made by Mrs. Dade in'answer thereto of this supposed claim,
no' any -ostpojiement of the.decree of sale asked upon tis account.'
Now, upon this posture of the case, seyeral objections arise as to
the maintenance of the suit.., In the first place, the present bill is of
an entirely novel character, It is not a bill of-review, or in the
nature of a bill pf review, founded upon any mistake of facts, or the
discovery of any new 6vidence. It admits in thle most unambiguous
terms that the decree was right. , Then, it-'sets up merely a crossclaim or set-6ff of a debt arising under wholly independent and
unconnected transactions.. Now it is clear- that courts of equity do
not act upon the subject of set-off in respect to distinct and uncon-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

391

Dade v. Irwin's Executor.

connected debts, unless some other peculiar equity has intervened,
calling for relief; hs, for example, in cases where there has been a
mutual credit given by each upon the footing of the debt of the other,
so that a just presumption- arises that the one is understood by the
parties to go in liquidation or set-off of the other.(a) -Inthe next
place, the remedy for Mrs. Dade, if any such debt as she has alleged
exists, is at law against the.executor; aid there is no suggestion that
the estate of the testator is insolvent, .and that his assets cannot be
reached at law. So that the bill steers aside of the assertion of any
equity upon the toundation of which it can rest for its support.
In the next place, the nature and character of the claim itself, now
for the first time made, long after the decease of both the Irwins,
and thirteen years at least after its supposed origin. To.put the case
in the least unfavourable light, it is:a matter of grave doubt whether
the endorsement of the testator's name on the assignment is genuine
or not. That very doubt woiild be sufficient to justify this court in
affirming the decree of'the court below,.and leaving Mrs. Dade to
her remedy at law, if any she have. But connecting this with such
a protracted silence for thirteen years, Without presenting or makiig
any application for the recognition or allowance of the claim.to the
testator or his executor, it is impossible not to feel that the merits of
the claim at such a distance of time can scarcely be made -out in
favour of the appellant. It is stale, and clouded with prestimptions
unfavourable tO its original foundation, or present validity, Besides,
in cases of this sort, in the examination and weighing, of- matters of
fact,, acourt of equity performs the like functions -asa jury; and we
should not incline, as an appellate court, to review the decision to
which the court'below arrived, unless under circumstances of a peculiar and urgent nature.
The decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore,. affirmed with costs.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of.the record
from the Circuit Court -of the United States for the District of Colimbia, holden in and for the county 6f Alexandria, and was argu d
by counsel. On consideration whereof, It is now.here ordered ant
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs.
(a) See'2 Story Eq. Jurisp. §§ 1435, 1436.

