408

SUPREME COURT.
Randel v. Brown.

their age. And the court cannot affmx a condition to thts right of
freedom, which the law does not authorize. Upon the whole, we
are unazimdusly of opinion, that the judgment of the Circuit Court
should be affirmed with costs.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, It is now here- ordered and
adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

JoHN RANDEL, JUN., APPELLANT V. WILLux

LIN BROWN.

WILLAM LINN BRowN, APPELLANT, v. JOHN RANDEL, JUNm.
John Randel, Jun., placed in the hands of Brown. two certificates of stock, which
Brown afterwards refused to restore.
Randel filed a bill'in chancery against Brown, alleging that the deposit had been
made for an especial purpose, which had failed. The answer denied this, and
claimed a lien on the certificates, or that they were given as a payment. •
Held, from the bill, answer, and evidence, that they were not delivered to Brown,
either as a payment of a debt to himself, or to secure him from responsibility
to another.
Held also, that Brown had no legal or equitable interest in them at the time of
the rendition of the decree.
The righti of the parties as they stand when the decree is rendered, are to govern,
and not as they stood at any preceding time.
The retention of property, after the extinguishment of a lien, becomes a fraudulent possession.,
"A lien cannot arise, where, from the nature of the contract between the parties,
it would be inconsistent with the express terms or the clear intent of the contract."

THEsE two cases were argued together, being cross appels from
the CircUit Court of the United States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, sitting as a court of equity.
The facts admitted or proved were few.

Prior to, and during the year 1831, Randel was engaged in a re-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

.407

Randel v. Brown...

markably troublesome litigation with the Chesapeake and Delaware
Canal Company. In that year Brown was a student of law in the
office of John Sergeant, Esq., of Philadelphia, who was one of
Randel's counsel. Through his visits to the office, Randel became
acquainted -with Brown, who was then twenty-five years of age.
In the latter part of 1831, Randel removed to the state of New
Clayton, Esq., of DelaYork, and engaged the-services of John ATT.
ware, who became the principal counsel in the cause.
During the years 1832 and 1833, the suit was prosecuted in Delaware against the canal. company, Brown absenting himself from the
office of Mr. Sergeant, at first partially, and then almost wholly. The
troublesome nature of the controversy may be inferred from the facts,
that the counsel for the canal company filed sixty-two pleas, to each:
of which there was a replication or answer. The whole of these
were afterwards withdrawn: the record broken up: new counts added
to the declaration: twenty-nine new pleas and. demurrers filed, tot
each of which there was a replication or a joinder in demurrer, as the
case might -require, all of which were drawn out at full length.' In
the preparation of these papers Brown rendered such aid as he was
able to do. The demurrers were argued at May term and November
term, 1833, and over-ruled. On the 9th of December, 1838, the
cause came on to be tried., and on the 25th of January, 1834, the
jury foand a verdict in favour of Randel for $226,885.
On thea 18th of September, 1834, the sum of $2000, with the
interest due, and to become due thereon, was entered upon the record,
as being assigned for the use of Brown.,
On'the 22d of Septembei, 1834, Brown caused attachments to be
issued against the captains of vessels passing through the canal as
garnishees of the tolls.
On the 26th of September, 1834, Brown accepted an order drawn
by Randel in favour of William M. Camac for $2000, payable out
of the first moneys he might obtain from said company on said
account, or from tolls attached. If more than one year should'elapse
before the whole of the $2000 was obta"ned, then he was to pay to
Camac an interest of 6 per cent on whatever balance might remain
unpaid after the expiration of one year.
During the years 1834, 1835, and 1836, the attachments became
the subject of much litigation, but were'ultimately confirmed.
InMarch, 1836, an ariagement was made between Randel and
the canal company, by which the- latter issued certificates of stock,

408

SUPREME COURT.
Randel r. Brown.

the interest upon which and principal were to be paid in preference
to all other debts, the tolls being pledged for that purpose. This
arrangement, however, was not consummated until April, nor were
the certificates issued until July. They were then issued in manuscript for $5000 each. .a October they were issued in a printed
form.
On the 18th of April, 1836, Randel gave Brown his promissory
note at ninety days for $300, which was not paid.
On the 22d of October, 1836, Ranidel gave Brown a power of attorney, authoriting him to sell, assign, and transfer unto himself or to
any other person or persons, $10,000 of the funded debt of the Chesapeake and lDelaware. Canal Company, entitled to priority of payment
and transferable according to certificates thereof, numbered 34 and
35, each for $5000.
On the same day Brown re~assigned to Randel the $2000 worth
of the judgment which had been assigned to Brown on the 18th of
SeptemnBer, 1834.
Under the power of attorney, Brown transferred $10,000 to himself, and took out new certificates in his own name.
On the.29th of October, 1836, Randel filed his bill in the Circuit
Court for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, in which he alleged
that he was desirous of negotiating a loan from one of the banks in
the city of Philadelphia, and hoped to do so by depositing as collateral security such of the certificates of debt, issued by the canal company, as might be sufficient to protect the lender from loss, giving at
the same time his promissory note in tne customary form; that he
stated this desire to Brown, who replied that he bad transacted business with the Schuylkill Bank, of which his cousin, Frederic Brown,
was a director, and that he would do what he could for him ; that
Brown soon afterwards informed him that he feared he could -not
succeed; that the complainant then informed Brown that be would
give $500 for a loan for a twelve-month;, that the complainant and
Brown agreed that, as a premium was offered, it would be better that
the name of the complainant should not appear in the transaction;
that Brown then said he would negotiate it in his own name upon
the hypothecation of the certificates, to which the complainant agreed;
that the complainant afterwards understood from Brown that he had
drawn a note for $10,000, payable in twelve months, and placed at
the foot of it a memorandum, showing that it was to be secured by
certificates of the debt of the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Cor-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Randel v.

409

Brown.

pany; that the complainant then observed that it would be well to
add that a power of attorney would be given to sell or transfer the
certificates which would enable the bank, at once, to draw the interest
to meet the note.
The bill further stated that Brown came to the house of the complainant in Wilmington on the 22d of October, and stated that he
had prepared a new note, according to the form above stated, which
had been presented to the bank and thrown'out; but that it would
be presented again, and it would be proper for him to have the certificates and a power of attorney authorizing a transfer, in order to
give it its best chance; that the complainant assented and gave
Brown two certificates of the character above described, of $5000 each,
-and the power of attorney; that the complainant handed to Brown a
blank form of a power of attorney similar to the one which had been
filled, requesting him to fill it up as a copy, and write upon it a
receipt for the power and certificates, stating in such receipt an engagement to return the certificates on the punctual payment of the
note and interest, and also an engagement to account to the complainant for the dividends which he might have received whilst the certificates were in his possessiofi ; that Brown promised to make out a
fair copy of such receipt and give it to the complainant, -which, however, he wholly omitted to do.
The bill further stated that at the next interview between them,
Brown said that the bank would not lend the money, and upon the
complainants requesting that the certificates might be restored to him,
Brown refused, and said, cc I mean to hold the certificates and power
of attorney until you settle with me; I have now got you in my
power;" that the complainant denied owing him any thing, but that
he had always intended to make him, Brown, a handsome present.
The bill further stated that the complainant went immediately to
the office of the canal company for the purpose of stopping the transfer, but found that Brown had effected it on Monday, the 24th of
October, (the power having been given tohim on Saturday, the 22d,)
and had, on Tuesday morning, received -fresh certificates in his own
name.

The bill then charged that these proceedings of Brown were fraudulent proceedings, and a direct breach of trust; that the deposit of
the certificates was iAade in the hands of Brown merely as a trustee,
in the full trust and reliance that no use whatever would be made
of it but for the purpose of procuring a loan from the Schuylkill Bank.
2M
VOL. I.-52

410

SUPREME COURT.
Rand el v. Brown.

It then called upon Brown to answer whether he did not receive the
certificates and power of attorney in trust and confidence, in the manner and under the circumstances aforesaid, and to answer the several
charges in the bill, concluding with a prayer that Brown might be
ordered to restore the certificates, and in the mean time an injunction
might issue.
In March, 1837, Browri filed his answer, in which he set forth that
as early as the spring of 1831, at the instance and request of the
complainant, he engaged in the service of the said complainant, and
particularly in he 'suitwith the canal company; that he had various
duties to performi and assisted in the preparation of papers of great
extent and importance; that he attended diligently to these services;
that his whole time from 1831 to 1836 was entirely at the command
of the complainant ; that soon after the engagement the complainant
informed him that he would pay the respondent a reasonable comhis service in any event;
pensation for time actually bestowed .in
that he would bear his travelling and other expenses; and that in
the event of success he, the complainant, would pay to the respondent
two and a half per cent. on the sum received in the said suit with the
canal company.
The answer further set forth that the assignment of $2000 of the
judgment was made to the respondent in payment, up to that period, of
the time expended by the respondent in the service of the complainant.
The answer. further set forth that the complainant desired him to
acceptan order in faiour of Camac for $2000, promising to place
funds in the hafidqof tb,- respondent to pay and take up the said
order, which order the respondent accepted.
The answer further stated that in April, 1836, the complainant
gave, to the resppndent his promissory note for $300 as a payment
for the time expended since the 'the assignment bf the judgment,
which note was never paid by the complainant.
Tie answer further set forth that on the 20th of October, 1836,
after a conversation between the parties respecting a settlement
between themselves, the complainant took from hispocket two certificates of the fuided debt, each for $5000, and handed them to the
respondent, and upon the respondent asking what they were for, the
complainant replied " they are to pay you and Mr. Camac," adding
that he wished the respondent to go to New Castle ;and reassign
the judgment for $2000. In consequence "ofthis, the respondent did
go to New Castle and reasign the judgnent, on which same day the

JANUARY

TERM; 1844.

411

Randel v. Brown.

complainant executed to the respondent the power of attorney spoken
of in the bill.
The answer then averred, that the transfer of stock had beeh made
by the respondent to himself, and that the dertificates had been given
to him, not in trust, but absolutely as a payment to'himself for a debt
due and ascertained from the said complainant, and to place bhim. in
funds for the payment of the order in favour of Camac. An account
was also alleged against the complainant, the particulars of which
were stated.
The answer admitted that the respondent had applied to his cousin,
Frederick Brown, to procure a loan of money for the.complainant,
amounting to $10,000; that he drew his note for' that sum, stating
at the foot of it that the same amount of the funded debt of the canal
company would be offered as collateral security but denied that
Frederick Brown as to -receive $500; or that the note was offered
at the Schuylkill Bank, or any other bank. It denied also that the
matter of the loan had any connection with.the two nertiflcateslhanded
to the respondent by the cbmplainant. On the contrary, it averred
that the loan was to be secured by other certificates.
The answer further averred, that no allusion was miade directly or
indirectly, by the complainant, to the certificates or poWer of attorney,
until a conversation in which the respondent declined to act as agent
for the complainant in the purchase of a piece of ground, unless the
complainant would pay all his debts;' and that the complainant then,
for the first time, with great asperity, asked why the respondent hadnot given him a receipt for the certificates. The conversation pro
ceeded with much warmth, and terminated with a demand from the
complainant for a restoration of the certificates and a refusal to surrender them on the part of the respondent. The answer then replied
particularly to the interrogatories of the complainant, and concluded
by saying that the certificates were surrendered to the court upon the
presentation of the complainant's bill
Under commissions to take testimony, a vast mass of evidence was
collected, consisting chiefly of the declarations of the parties respectively as to the compensation which Brown was to receive for his"
services, and the value of those services.
In May, 1839, the case was referred to John M. Scott, Thomas L
Wharton, and Peter McCall, Esquires, whowere authorized to act as
masters therein, with power to take depositions, &c., and directed to
report the evidence to the. court together with a statement by the

412

SUPREME COURT.
Randel v. Brown.

said masters, or a majority of them, of such facts as in their opinion
were established by the evidence, together with their opinion touching any matters on questions which they may deem material for consideration; and: especially, first, to report the terms, consideration,
and conditions of the transfer of the two certificates of debt referred
to in the bill and answer, in the consideration of which, the answer
of the-defendant, so far as it is responsive to the averments of the
bill or interrogatories, or a denial of the former, is to be taken as
evidence of the cause, according to the rules of equity'. Second, to
report what sums of money have been paid by the plaintiff to defendant, for or on account of disbursements made by defendant-time,
labour expended, services rendered, for or to the plaintiff, for his use
or at his request; whether any sum is yet due to defendant therefor,
and 'to what' amount.
Two of the masters united in a report; the third filed a separate one.
The two masters, in their report, recapitulated the principal part
of the evidence which led them to their conclusion, and found, 1. That the delivery of the certificates by the complainant
to the
respondent was not absolute, but.upon a trust.
2. That the trust was to raise money.
3. That of the money so to be raised, part was to be paid to Mr.
Camac; and that, as to this part, the respondent had a direct interest
in the execution of the trust, in consequence of his acceptance of the
draft in favour of Mr. Camac, referred to in the answer, and of his
re-transfer of the interest in the judgment upon which the draft was
drawn.
4. That another portion of the money so to be raised, was to be
paid to Mr. C. Ingersoll.
5. That no express appropriation of the balance, or any part
thereof, was made at the time by the complainant in favour of the
respondent.
6. But that an intention had been declared previously, by the
complainant, to pay or present to the respondent, through the medium
of such certificates, a sum of money, the amount of which was not
stated or specified, as a compensation or remuneration for his services
during the pendency of the suit with the Chesapeake and Delaware
Canal Company; but we do not find that any express reference to
such declared intention was made at the time of the transaction.
7. That, in point of fact, no money was raised upon the certificates.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

413

Randel v. Brown.

8. That, on Monday, the twenty-fourth of October, 1836, the-certificates were transferred by the respondent (under-the power of
attorney) to himself, and so remain; and
9. That, since the filing of the.bill in this case, the complainant
has parted with all the remaining certificates of debt due to~him by
the said Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company-.
The two masters further reported, that the weight of testimony was
against the allegation that the transfer of the $2000 was in payment
for time expended.
They further reported that such a promise was made by the complainant, as the respondent has set forth; but that nothing was due
to the respondent fot his time expended.
They further reported that fbr labour and services rehdered by the
respondent to the complainant, for his use and at his request, there
was due a sum equal to two and one-half per cent. on the amount
of the judgment recovered against the canal company, viz. the sum
of $5659 64. And that the debt due to Mr. Camac had been paid
by Randel since the cause commenced.
On the subject.of payments, the two masters reported that there
was a balance of $10, which was to be applied to Mr.IRandel's credit
on the general account.
The third master concurred with the other two as to the contract
for two and one-half per cent., aid that the transfer of the certificates
was in trust; but was of opinion that Brown's own claim was to be
paid out Qf the proceeds, and that the $2000 contract was. not disproved by evidence sufficiently strong to deprive the answer of the
weight given to it by te rules of equity.
Numerous exceptions to this report w-ere filed by both the complainant and respondent-on the part of the complainant it was
objected, that the report was erroneous, because
1. The part of the answer which stated the contract for two and
one half per cent. was not responsive to the bill.
2. The respondent furnished no account of disbursements made or
services renidered.
3. The payments alleged to have been mide were not proved.
4. The sum of $80 was a payment and not a loan.
5. That nothing was due to the respondent from the complainant.
On the part of the respondent it was objected,
1. That the sums charged to the respondent in the account were
not sustained by the evidence.

414

SUPREME COURT.
Randel v. Brown.

2. That the masters had not allowed the respondent sufficient
credits.
In October, 1841, the cause came on to be heard -upon bill, answer, replication, master's report, exhibits, depositions, and exceptions
to report, and the court decreed that the exceptions to the master's
report be disallowed; that there was due by the complainant to the
respondent the sum of $5649 64, with interest thereoD from the fifth
day of May, 1840, making together the sum of $6136, which said
sum should be paid and satisfied by and out of certain certificates of
debt or the proceeds thereof, given to the complainant by the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company, and then under the control of
the court. And, it was further ordered that the costs of the suit, including the fees of the masters, be divided between, and equally paid
by, the complainant and respondent.
From this decree, both parties aplpealed to this court.
J. R. Ingersoll and C. Ingersoll,jun., for Randel.
J. B. Tyson and Cadwallader,for Brown.
The argument consisted chiefly, upon both sides, in an examination and comparison of the evidence; and it is therefore thought advisable to omit'it. Some legal positions were taken and authorities
adduced to support them, which will be mentioned.
J. B. Ingersoll.
Where an answer is discredited in one particular, it is weakened in
the remainder. 5 Monroe, 23.
A claim existing will not justify the retention of trust-funds,
9 Wheat. Palmer v. Gracie; Thompson v. Eyre, Supreme Court of
Penfisylvania, 3 De Saussure's Chan. Rep. 268; 11 Wheat. 125.
The answer, setting up a contract, is not responsive to any part of
the bill, and a defendant is only a witness as to what he is asked.
2 Stew. 302; 2 Johns. Chan. Ca. 88, 90; 1 Bibb, 195; 8 Cowen,
387; 1 Wash. (Va.) 224; 1 Mumf. 395.
J. IL Tyson.
The confessions of a party form the weakest of all evidence deemed admissible -in law. Bernard v. Flournoy, 4 J. J. Marsh. 101;
Harding v. Brooks, 5 Pick. 244; Snelling v. Utterbach, 1 Bibb, 609;
Linch v. Lincn, 10,Ves. 517, 518; Thomas v. Thomas, 2 J. J. Marsh.
65; MVorris v. Morris, 2 Bibb, 311; Logan v. McChord's heirs,

JANUARY TEPRM, 184.

415

Randel v. Brown.

2 A. K. Marsh. 225; 2 Johns. Chan. Rep. 412; Robertson V. Robertson, 9 Watts's Rep. 43.
A power of attorney, if coupled with an ,interest in the thing,
is irrevocable. Hunt v. Rosemaniefe, 8 Wheat. 175, also- 1 Peters, 1.
The assignment of the judgment anti the power of attorney here
are under seal. Every deed imports consideration. Plowd. 308;
Burr. Rep. 1637.
In a case of fraud, if parties be in pari delicto, a court of equity
may interpose for a complainant upon terms, or, owing to his demerit,
,may abstain from the slightest interference.. 1 Fonbl. Eq. b. 1,
sect. 3, note (h), and cases 'cited; 2 Story's Eq: Juris. 6, 7, and cases
cited.
Parties to a bill are held to as strict account in proof of the case
stated as parties to an answer, for the court pronounces its decree
secundurm allegata etprobala. Boone v. Chilles, 10 Peters, 209, also
4 Mod. Rep. 21, 29; 3 Wheat. 527; 6 Wheat. 468; 2 Wheat. 380;
2 Peters, 612; 11 Wheat. 103; 7 Peters, 274; 2 Ves. 243; 1 Marsh.
325; 3 Bibb, 530.
He who asks the aid of a court of equity must offer to do equity.
St. John v. Halford, Bart. 1 Chan. Ca. part 97; Lord Dacres v. Crompe,
2 Chan Ca. part 87; Stanley v.Gadsby, 10 Peters, 521; Brown v.
Swann, 10 Peters, 497; see 501.
Cadwalladei cited the following authorities in addition to those
cited by Mr. 7Tson,'respecting the declarations of parties. 7 Modern,
49; Foster, 243; Hardin, 549; 4 Serg. and Rawle, 331, 332;, 14Howell's State Trials, case of Duke of Richmond.
Because a man does what is wrong, a court should not take away
what belongs to him and give it to another, 'to whom it does not
belong.
A party may justify-on a good ground, although there is also a bad
ground in the case. 12 Modern, 387;. Comyn, 78; Fitzherbert,
Avowry, 232; 3 Coke, 26 a; 2 Lednard, 196; 7 T. R. 654, 658;
4 Bingham's New Cases, 638; 2 Dowl. and Ryl. 755, 756 ; 1 Eq.
Ca. br. 354; 2 Clian. Ca. 23; 1 Vernon, 49, 51; 2 Vernon, 159;
14 Journal House of Lords, 601, reversing case in 2 Vernon;
2 Ball and Biggar, 271; 11 Wheat. 125, 126; i2 Peters, 297;
1 Chan. Ca. 97; 2 Chan. Ca. 87; 1 Peters, 382, 383.
C. Ingersoll, jun., in addition to arguing upon the evidence, com-

416

SUPREME COURT.
Randel

. Brown.

mented upon many of the above authorities, to show that they were
not applicable to the case.
Mr. Justice McKINLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Randel filed his bill against Brown, on the chancery side of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania. In which he states that, wishing to negotiate a loan of
$10,000, to be secured .on certificates of the funded debt of the
Chetapeake and Delaware Canal Company, he applied to Brown to
aid him in the negotiation; with one of the-banks in Philadelphia.
And that it wds agreed between them, that Randel should deliver to
Brown two certificates of the funded debt-of the canal company, for
$5000.each, and execute to him a power of attorney, authorizing him
to transfer the certificates to himself, or to any other person; and that
Brown should, upon his own note, and the pledge of the certificates,
if practicable, obtain a loan, for Randel.
And in pursuance of this agreement, he executed the power and
delivered it and the.,cdrtificates to Brown. That instead of obtaining
.a loan of money, as.he had promised, Brown transferred the certificates to himself, and delivered them up to the canal company, and
obtained new ones .in his own name. That when Randel applied
to Brown to know whether he had obtained the loan of $10,000 for
him,Brown replied, that he had bad news for him-" I have not succeeded at the bank ;" that the bank had a disposition to lend, but
had not the means. That Randel then requested him to return the
certificates of debt, which Brown refused to do; saying, he intended
" to hold oa to them" till Randel settled with him, or made him the
present he had promised him.
Randel then put the following interrogatories to Brown: "Whether he did not receive the certificates and power of attorney in trust
and confidence, in the manner and under the circumstances aforesaid;
and whether he had any interest in the same, and was not, in holding the same, a mere trustee for the complainant, and did not refuse
to deliver them to him; .and whether he did not transfer said certificates to himself, on Monday, the 24th of October; and Vhat circumstances occurred before the board of directors, or were communicated
to him; and whether he did not inform the complainant, that he had
not succeeded at the banky and give the. complainant to believe, that
he-had made applicatiorl on that, or the preceding day; and whether
the certificates were not transferred, by said Brown, to his own use,

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

417

Randel v. Brown.

and not for the use of the complainant; and what use or disposition,
if iny, he had made thereof, and to whom, and £9r what consideration."
The answdr denies all the material allegations of .the bill, except
it admits the receipt of the power of attorney and the certificates of
debt. Brown then sets up, in his answer, a claim for services rendered to Randel, from the early part-of the year 1831, fill the 24th
day of October, 1836, of various kinds, but particularly,, in attending
to, and preparing for trial, a suit brought by Randel against the said
canal company. And he alleges that Randel agreed to give him a
reasonable compensation, for time to be expended 'in his service, in
any event, and to pay his travelling and other expdnses; and'in the
event of success in the suit, the additional compensation of two and
a: half per cent. on the amount that might be received thereon;
and that Randall finally recovered judgmenti and received from the
company, the sum of $230,000, in payment thereof.
But before the payment, and while it was uncetain whether any
thing would be realized from the judgment, Brown states that, from
exposure, in the service of Randel, he was taken sick, and it being
uncertain wvhether he would recover or not, he applied to Randel for
payment for the time then expended in his service, whereupon Randel causeA to be transferred to the ,use of Brown $2000, part of said
judgment. And a short time thereafter, about the month of September, 1834, Randel requested him to accept aft order, drawn on him
by Randel, in favour of a certain William H. Camac, for $2000,
promising, at the same time, to place funds in his hands to meet its
payment; which induced him to accept it. Brown refeis to the
order, in his answer, and which is as follows:
c Sir-Out of the-sum of $2000 with interest due, and to become
due thereon, which was assigned,'at my request, by Samuel H. 'Hodsoi, to you; being one-fifth part of the sum assignied by me to him,
on trst, the 27th of January last, out of the judgment obtained by
me against the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company, please to
pay to William H. Camac or order the sum of $2000, out of the first
moneys you obtain from said company on said account, or on account
of tolls attached. If more than one year elapse before you obtain
the whole of said sum of $,000, then pay to' said Camac an interest
of six per cent: on whatever balance may remain unpaid, after the
expiration of said term of one year." Brown accepted this order on
the 26th of September, 1834.
VOL. H.-53

418

SUPREME

COURT.

Randel v. Brown.

It is further charged in the answer, that on the 18th day of April,
1836, for time expended in his service, from the date of the assignment of the said sum of $2000, down to that time, Randel gave to
Brown a promissory note for $300, payable ninety days after date.
He then charges, that the two certificates of debt were delivered to
him by Randel, on the 20th of October, 1836, for the purpose of
paying himself, and the debt of $2000 to Camac. And at the same
time, Randel requested him to go to New Castle and reassign the
part of said judgment which had been assigned to him as aforesaid;
and that he, Randel, would then execute the power to Brown to
enable him to transfer said two certificates of debt to himself. And
accordingly, on the 22d of tlie same month, he at New Castle reassignbd to Raindel said sum of $2000, part of said judgment, and
received from him the power of attorney, authorizing him to transfer
said two certificates of debt, numbered 34 and 35, to himself, or any
other person.
And in answer to the interrogatories in the bill, Brown says, " that
he did not receive said certificates and power of attorney, in trust
and confidence, in the manner and under the circumstances therein
set forth, but absolutely, as an unqualified transfer, in payment of a
debt due to him, by the complainant, and distinctly admitted by him,
and to enable him, the respondent, to pay William H. Camac the
amount of his, the respondent's, acceptance, as before stated; and
that said respondent has an absolute and unqualified interest in the
certificates, to the whole amount of their principal and interest, and
that he does not hold them as trustee for the complainant, nor any
other person, but in his own right, and for his own use.
"And that he did refuse to deliver said certificates to the complainant, and did actually transfer said certificates to himself, on Monday,
the 24th day of October last; and that he did not place said certificates before the directors of the Schuylkill Bank, on Monday, the
24th, or Tuesday the 25th of October last. That touching the disposition- your respondent has made of the said certificates, he says,
that -they still stand in the name of your respondent, and were surrendered to this honourable court, on the presentation of the complainant'sbill of complaint." To the answer the complainant filed a
general replication. And, after time had been allowed the parties to
take depositions, the court referred the case to three masters. with
special instructions.
The masters after a very thorough examination of the evidence in

JANUARY TERM,, 1844.

419

Randel v. Brown.

the cause, reported against the claim of Brown for separate compensation for time; but allowed him the two and a half per cent. commissions, claimed in his answer, amounting to $5659 64, as compensation
for all services rendered. Both parties excepted to the report. Brown,
to that part of it which disallowed'his claim for separate compensation for time; and Randel. excepted to that part which allowed to
Brown two and a half per cent. ori the amount of the judgment
against the canal company.
The court overruled these and all other exceptions, confirmed
the report of the masters; and rendered a decree in favour of Brown
for the amount allowed by the masters, with interest from the fifh day
of May, 1840, amounting together to the sum of $6136, to be paid
out of these tio certificates. From this decree both parties have
appealed to this court.
The right of Brown to compensation for time, and Iis right to
commissions on the amount of the judgment, are both involved in
his assertion of the more general right, to be compensated, for all his
services, out of these certificates. The principal questions, therefore,
which we deem it necessary to examine are, 1st. Were -the certificates delivered to Brown in payment of a debt to himself, and to
pay the debt to Camac ? And if they were not so delivered; then,
2d. Had Brown such a legal or equitable interest in the certificates
as authorized the decree of the court below? A just solution of these
questions depends upon a proper examination of the evidence applicable to them, and the particular circurnstances under which the
witnesses acquired a knowledge of the facts they have deposed to.
Shortly after the bill was filed, and, before Brown had filed his
answer, he went to Delaware to ascertain what evidence he could
obtain from persons having a knowledge of the-services he had ren.
dered to Randel. And from the inquiries -hemade of several of the
witnesses, and the disclosures made to them, of the nature of his
controversy with Randel, it is reasonable to suppose, that he intended,
at that time, to rest his defence upon the amount and value w-his
services only, and that he had- not then thought of claiming the cerficates, as having been delivered to him in payment of, a debt due
for those services. The depositions of four of those persons are found
in the record; T. B. Roberts-states, in his deposition, that Brown
asked him what evidence he could give, as to the value of his services, while with Randel, stating, that the witness was aware of his
having been for years doing business for him.

420

-SUPREME COURT.
Randel v. Brown.

The -witness then says, that Brown stated to him, "cthat the certificates had been put into his hands by Mr. Randel; to raise morley
upon them, to pay certain debts of Randel's in Philadelphia; one of
which he mentioned was to Mr. Camac; I think, he stated himself,
under some obligation to have paid by Mr. Randel; and another debt
to Mr. Charles Ingersoll; he did not state that the balance was for
himself. He said he had exerted himself to negotiate the certificates
to several persons, but had not succeeded;" c that Mr. Randel wished
him to return the certificates to him, but he had refused to do so,
until Mr. Randel settled certain debts he owed."
A. C. Gray, to whom Brown applied, for the purpose of getting his'
services as commissioner to take depositions for him, in this suit,
says, Brown stated, "cthat he had received a transfer of $10,000 from
Handel of the canal's debt, for the purpcse of raising money; with
which Mr. Randel wished to pay his debts.; he stated also, that Mr.
Randel owed him money for services, which he had rendered him,
during the long litigation which had taken place between Randel
and the canal company. In consequence of these things, he had determined to hold on to these certificates, as the only means to enforce the settlement of his claims. 7
Thomas Janvier, another of these witnesses, states, that when
Brown applied to him to ascertain what tstimony he could give in this
case, Brown stated that Randel had promised to pay him two and a
half per cent. on the judgment against the canal company. The witness
replied, that his testimony might operate against him, as the only
claim he had ever heard him assert, was, that he intended to make
Randel pay him $2000 for his services. Janvier then says, "that
in the course of the conversation he gave me a history of the transactio-i, upon which this suit is founded; and told me that RandeI
had given him these certificates, which are now in controversy, for
the purpose of negotiating a loan, to pay certain debts he had contracted-debts due to Mr. Camac, Mr. Charles Ingersoll, and himself;
so far I recollect positively. I am certain, from the information of
Mr. Brown, that the certificates were given for the purpose of negotiating a loan, to enable Randel to pay certain creditors. I am
certain he named Mr. Camac, Mr. C. Ingersoll, and himself as
creditors."
Cornelius D. Blaney, the fourth witness, says, he does not recollect
that Brown stated how the certificates came into his hands; in other
respects his testimony is, substantially, the same as that of the other

JANUARY TERM, 184.

421

Randel v. Brown.
three witnesses; and it appears, that he was present at the conversation between Brown and the witness, Roberts.
After collating this evidence with clearness and ability, the masters
proceed to say, "It is reniarkable, that to none of these persons-did
the respondent state the fact, that he had transferred these certificates
into his own name; it is remarkable also, that if, at that time, he did
entertain the same clear and positive conceptions of his rights, which
is set forth in the answer, he did not simply and. plainly state that
right, and say, "they (thc .certificates) were given in payment, or
Part payment of my own claim, and of my liability to Mr. Camac."
We cannot close our minds to the force of the testimony of these four
persons. It has been ably'urged, that evidence gathered from- the
declarations of a party is unsafe, peculiarly liable to the effects of
misapprehension, of inattention, of defect of recollection-that a word
omitted, or displaced, may-change the whole character of the -declaration. We have felt the force of the argument, but it does not prevail against the influezice of the concurring testimony of four intelli.
gent and respectable men, giving a very unifopn account of-the
respondent's representation of his own case; add, in relati n to the
question of trust, giving such a narration as to lead to one and the
same result. We have observed too, that it is the same species of
evidence, upon which the respondent asserts his alleged contract with
the complainant, which contract he states.i, his answer, in the words
or declarations of the complainant, alleged to have been uttered to
himself, at a time much less recent than his own declarations to the
witnesses."
,,The testimony of these witnesses then, establishes; 'in our
opinion, and accordingly we find, and so report,
" 1. That the delivery of the certificates by the complainant to the
respondent was nof absolute, but upon a trust.
"2. That the trust was to raise money.
"3. That of the money so to be raised, part was to be-paid to Mr.
Camac ;. and that as to this part, the respondent had a dirdct interest
in the execution of the trust, in consequence of his acceptance of the
draft drawn in favour of Mr. Camac, referred to in the answer, and
of his re-transfer of the interest in the judgment upon which the draft
was drawn.
" 4. -That another portion of the money so to be raised was to be
paid to Mr. C. Ingersoll.
"5. That no express appropriation. of the balance, or any part
2N

422

SUPREME. COURT.
Ran'de

v. Brovn.

thereof, was made at the time by the complainant in favour of-the
respondent."
We concur entirely with the masters in their xeasoning, and in the
*conclusions they have arrived at, upon this testimony, except as to
the supposed interest of Brownin the execution of the trust, mentioned in the third specification. Upon that we shall have occasion
.-to comtinent, in another part of this opinion. This evidence sustains
the allegations of the bill, fully, and contradicts the answer, as to the
objects and purposes for which. the two certificates were delivered
by Randel to Brown. There is, therefore, no further pretence to say,
-that Browvin received the certificates in payment of a debt to himself,
and for the purpose of paying the debt to Camac. And this evidence
establishes another material fact in this case; and that is, that Brown
had no interest or property in the certificates before they were
'delivered to him by Randel; and whether he acquired any in them
afterwards, leads us to the consideration of the second question. Had
Brown such an equitable interest in the certifiqates as authorized the
decree of the court below?
In the third specification before referred to, the masters reported
that Brown had a direct interest in the certificates, on account of his
acceptance of Randel's order in favour of Camac, and his having
relinquished to Randel his interest in the judgment. It is difficult to
ascertain upon -*hatground it was assumed, at the date of the report,
that Brown had an interest in these certificates. The. order -as
drawn upon a special and contingent fund, which might never. be
received; and until received, Brown was not liable to pay. Thereis
no! proof in the cause that can be relied upon, to show on what con4idemtion the re-assignment was made; unless the statements in
Brown's answer are to be received as evidence. When the answers
of the defendant are directly responsive to the allegations of the bill,
they amount to positive proof. But in this case there is no fllegation in the bill, in relation to this assignment or re-assignment.
Brown, in giving a history of the transactions between him and Randel, sets up in his answer this sum of $2000, as having been assigned
to him in part payment of his services; -and in another part of his
answer, he states, that upon receiving the certificates and power of
attorney, at the request of Randel, he re-assigned his interest in the
judgment to him.
This being clearly matter in avoidance, it is entitled to no more
considemtio. , as evidence, than are the allegations of the bill. There

JANUARY- TERM, 1844.

423

Randel v. Brown.

is rio evidence, theref6re, that the re-assignment was made iii consideration of the delivery of the 6ertificates by Randel to Brown. But
there is strong presiimptive eridence, that it was made in consideration of the payment of the order to Camac by Randel, or of his promise to Brown, that he would pay it; for. it appears by the report of
the masters, that it was admitted by the parties, and the counsel on
both sides, that the amount of the order had been paid by'Randel to
Camac after the commencement of this suit.
But if Brown had' even acquired a valid lien on the certificates, on
account of the acceptance of the order, and the re-assignment of his
interest in the judgment, the payment of the order.by Randel, pending the suit, extinguished the lien, and no de.cree ought, on.account
of this supposed lien, to have been rendered in favour of Brown-; for
it is the rights ofthe parties, at the time the decree is rendered, that
ought to govern the court in rendering the decree. In either aspect
of the case, however, Brown's right to these certificates is reduced to
naked possession; and, since his refusal to restore them to Randel,
his possession has been fraudulehit.
It has been contended, by-Brown's counsel, that, as the masters
have reported that a large amount was due from Randel to Brown,
and 'that Randel had -parted with all the rest of his certificates of
funded debt; that, therefore; Brown had a right to payment 'out of
the cortiflcates in controversyin this case. In support of this proposition, they relied on the ca-se of Handy, and Harding, 11 Wheat. 103.
The bill, in that case, stated that Wheaton, under whom the com'plainants claimed, as heirs-at-law, about the year 1802, began to
exhibit symptoms indicating loss of intellect, and soon becamne incornpetent to the management of his estate. Under these cirunstan'ces,
it was agreed among his children, that Handy, who had married his
-daughter, should endeavour to take his estate out of his ha-nds, and
preserve it for the benefit of his heirs-at-law.- That it was agreed,
that Wheaton should be prevailed on to convey the real property to
Hand;,
,fr a nominal consideration, who'should forthwith ex.ecute
an instrument'of writing declaring that he took and held the same in
trust.- 's1. To provide a decent support for "the grantor, during. iis
liffe; and after a full remunerati6n for his expenses and trouble, in
that respect, to hold the residue of the estate for the benefit of the
heirs-at-law. Handy-procured the conveyance from Wheaton, and
entered 'upon and possessed the property till his death, but refused to
execute the declaration of trust.

424

SUPREME COURT.
Randel v. Brown.

The bill then prayed for an account; and that a decree might be
rendered, exonerating the estate from the deed to Handy, after
satisfying his just claims, &c.
The answer denied that Wheaton was incapable of conveying,
when the deed was made. It denied also that the defendant purchased as a trustee; and averred, that he was a purchaser for a full
and ialuable consideration.
The Circuit Court decreed that the deed should be set aside; and
that an account should be taken of the receipts and disbursements of
Handy, and that he should be credited for all advances made, and
charges incurred for the maintenance of Wheaton during his life, and
for mpairs and improvements made on the estate. This part of the
decre.was affirmed by the Supreme Court. Handy's possession of
the estate was consistent with the intention of the parties; the
advances made and charges incurred, for the maintenance of Wheaton, -wexe according to their agreement; and the repairs and improvements niade, preserved the estate, and enhanced its value. Thus far
Handy executed the trust fairly, and thereby acquired a lien on the
funds in his hands, arising from the rents and profits; nor were these
acts tainted by his subsequent fraud, in refusing to excute other parts
of thl trust; and besides the complainants in their prayer for relief
authorized the court to allow Handy his just claims against the
estate. This case does not, therefore, give any support to the proposition assumed by the counsel -ofBrown.
There is no parallel between these cases, as a brief comparison will
show. Brown's possession of the certificates, after refusing to
restore them to Randel, was not only fraudulent, but wholly inconsistent with the contract with Randel; and in yiolation of the trust upon
which he received them. And Randel, so far from authorizing the
court to allow Brown's claim out of the certificates, stated positively
in his bill, that he owed him' hothing. The proof shows conclusively, that Brown bad neither property nor interest in the certificates'
before they 'were delivered to him by Randel. Unless he can show,
therefore, that he has a lien on them, he can neither hold them as
security for the payment of the claims set up in his answer, nor is
he entitled to payment out of them, at law or in equity. To create a
lien on a chattel, the party claiming it must show the just possession
of the thing claimed; and no person can acquire a lien, founded upon
I'.is own illegal or fraudulent act, or breach of duty; nor can a lien
arise, where, from the nature of the contract between the parties, it

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

425

Randel v. Brown.

would be inconsistent with the express terms, or the clear intent of
the contract. For example, if the goods were deposited in the possession of the party for, a particular purpose, inconsistent with the
notion of a lien, as to hold them or the proceeds for the owner, or a
third person. Story on Agency, 73, 74, 75; Lamprier v. Pasley,
2 Term R. 485; Cranston v. The Philadelphia Insurance Company,
5 Bin. 538; Turno v. Bethune, 2 Desau. 285; Jarvis v. Rogers,
15 Mass. R. 389, 395; Weymouth v. Bowyer, 1 Vesey, Jun. 416 ;
Taylor v. Robinson, 8 Taunt. R. 648; Gray v. Wilson, 9 Watts,
512; Madden v. Kempster, 1 Camp. 12; Crockford v. Winter,
2 Camp. 124.
In the case of Madden v. Kempster, Lord Ellenborough said, " The
defendant being under an acceptance for Captain Hart, whose agent
he had been, might have retained a sum of money to answer that
acceptance. But the plaintiff is entitled to recover this sum of money,
the defendant having obtained itby misrepresentation. He mentioned
nothing of the acceptance, he obtained it as a balance when no
balance was due to him. He cannot, theref6re, set up the lien to
which he might otherwise have been entitled." Lord Ellenborough
held the same doctrine in the case of Crockford v. Winter; and the
same doctrine was held in Taylor v. Robinson, 8 Taunt.
In this case of Madden v. Kempster, it is admitted that Kempster
would have had a good lien on the .£60 if he had obtained the money
honestly, and in the course of business. But having obtained it by
misrepresentation he was not permitted to set up the lien, to which
he might otherwis6 have been entitled. How then, can Brown set
up a lien on these certificates, holding possession of them as he does,
by just as gross a fraud? There is no aspect-in which the question
can be placed, consistently with the evidence and the authorities
above cited, that will justify the decree in his favour. To permit
this decree to stand would be to sanctify fraud, and to allow Brown,
by taking advantage of his own wrong, to obtain compensation for
his services in a court of chancery, upoli a case purely cognisable in
a court of law, the decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore, reversed,
and the cause is remanded to the Circuit Court with directions to
enter a decree for the plaintiff, conformably to this opinion, and that
the defendant pay costs in both courts.
OBDER.

Randel v. Brown.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
2 N2
VoL. H.-54

SUPREME COURT.

426

Lawrence v. McCalmont et al.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, It. is now here ordered and decreed by this court, that the
decree of the said Circuit Court be, and the same is hereby reversed
with costs; and that this cause be, and the same is hereby remanded
to the said Circuit Court, with directions to that court to enter a
decree for the complainant, conformably to the opinion of this
court, and that the defendant pay thecosts in both courts.
ORDER.
Brown v. Randel.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration
whereof, It is nowhere ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court,
that this appeal be, and the same is hereby dismissed with costs;
and that this cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said
Circuit Court with directions to that court to proceed therein conformably to the opinion of this court in.this case on the appeal of the
complainant.

SUSAN LAWRENCE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. ROBERT McCA MONT, HGH
MCCALMIONT, AND WILLIAMI JOHNSON NEWELL, DEFENDANTS.
The following guarantee, viz.:
"In consideration of Messrs. 3. and A. Lawrence having a credit with your
house, and in further consideration of $1 paid me by yourselves, receipt of
which I hereby acknowledge, I engage to you that they shall fulfil the engagements they have made and shall make with yon, for meeting and reimbursing
the payments which you may 'assume under such credit at their request,
together with your charges; and I guaranty you from all payments and
damages by reason of their default.
"You are to consider this'as a standing and continuing guarantee, without the
necessity of your apprizing me, from time to time, of your engagements-and
advances for their house; alid in case of a change of partners in your firm
or theirs, the guarantee is to apply and continue to transactions afterwards,
between the firms as changed, until notified by me to the contrary."
Is a continuing .guarantee, and includes not only transactions under a letter of
credit existing at the date of the guarantee, but also transactions which arose
under a second letter granted at the expiration of the first; although the
-econd credit contained a proviso "that the bills be drawn by, or in favour

