376

SUPREME COURT.
Catts

v. Phalen et al.

cises its powers and confirms the land to one, it must necessarily be
considered in a court of law the paramount and better title.
We think this position also sound, and that it is conclusive against
the validity of the plaintiff's title; and therefore order the judgment
of the Supreme Court of Missouri to be affirmed.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Supreme Court of'the state of Missouri, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, It is now here ordered and
adjudged by this pourt, that the judgment of the said Supreme Court
of the state of Missouri, in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed with costs.

JOHN CkTTs, PLAINTIFF IN EIRROR, V. JArs PHALEN; AND FRAcIs
MoRRs, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
A person who receives the prize money, in a loitery, for a ticket which he had
caused to be fraudulently drawn as a prize, is liable to the lottery contractors
* in. an action for money had and received for heir use. So far as he is concerned, the law annuls the pretended drawing of the prize; and he is in the
same situation as if he had received the money of the contractors by means
of any other false pretence.

Tins case was brought .up by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United Stjes, for the District of Columbia and county
of Alexandria.
The facts were these:
The state of Virginia, in and prior to the year 1834, passed several acts authorizing a lottery to be drawn for the .improvement of the
Fauquier and Alexandria turnpike road.
In 1839, certain persons, acting as commissioners,,made a contract
'.ith James Phalen and Francis Moriis, of the city of New York, by
which Phalen and Morris were authorized, upon the terms therein
mentioned, to draw these lotteries. They proceeded to do so, and
employed Carts to draw the tickets from the wheel. The following
extract from the bil of exceptions sets forth the other' facts in
the case.

JANUARY TEAM, 1844.
Catts v. Phalen et al.

;c That the plaintiffs (Phalen. and Morris) before the drawing of
such lottery, employed the defendant (Catts) to perform. the manual
operation of drawing with his own han&,out of the lottery wheel prepared for the purpose, the tickets of numbers therein Oeposited by
them, in order to be drawn thereout by the defendant, without selection and by tbance, as each ticket of. numbers successively and by
chance presented itself to his hand when inserted in the wheel, and
which tickets of numbers, when so drawn out in a certain order, were
to determine the prizes to such lottery tickets as the plaintiffs had-disposed of, or still held in their own hands, according as the tickets of
numbers so drawn out corresponded -with the numbers Qn the face of
such lottery tickets respectively.
" That the defendant, before the drawing of the said lottery, and
after he was -employed to.draw out the tickets of numbers as aforesaid, fraudulently procured and employed pne William Hill to pur.
chase of the painitiffi, at their oflce in Washington, with money
given by defendant, td said- Hill fr the purpose,a certain -ticket ill,
the said lottery for him, the defendant, but apparently as for the said
Hill himself.
"cThat the said Hill did accordingly purchase such ticket of the
plaintiR pt their said office, apparently as for himself, and really for
defendant, and with money finiished to said Hill by defendant as
aforesai.d,.and delivered such ticket to defendant before the drmwing
*ofsaid lottery.
" That-defendant, being in possessi.on of such ticket so purchased
for him as aforesaid,.did, on the saidDeeimber, 1840; at the
county aforesaid, undertake and proceed, in liretended pursuance and
execution of his said employment'in behalf of the plaintiffp, to draw
out .ofthe said lottery wheel,, with his own hand, the said tickets of
numbers, wbilst at" the same- time he had fraudulently conbealed in
the cuff of his coat certain false arid fictitious' tickets of numbers
fraudulently prepared by. him, which exactly corresponded ih numbers with the" numbers on the face'of the ticket so held by him as
aforesaid, and fraudulently prepared in the similitude of the gefiuine
tickets of numbers which 'had been -deposited in- the said lottery
wheel for the purpose of being draw out by defendant, without
selection and by chance as aforesaid.
cThat defendant, -when, under'pretence of drawing out such
genuine tickets of numbers, fie inserted his hand into the saia[lottery
wheel, fraudulently and secretly contrived,; without drawing out any
VoL. I.-48
212

878

SUPREME COURT.
Catts v. Phalexn et aL

of the genuine ticket of numbers deposited in said wheel, to slip
between his finger and thumb the said false and fictitious tickets of
numbers before concealed in his cuff is aforesaid, and produced and
exhibited the same to the .agent of the plaintiffs, and other persons
then and there, pretent and superintending the drawing of said lottery, -as and for genuine tickets of numbers properly drawn from the
said wheel; by reason of whidh fraudulent contrivance, the number of
the lottery ticket so purchased for defendant, and in his posses-.
sion as aforesaid, was.registered in the proper books kept for that
purpose by the plaintiffs, as, the ticket entitled to a prize of $10,000,
so as to enable. -the-holder of such ticket to demand and receive
*of the plaintiffs the amount of such prize, with a deduction of fifteen
per cent.
" That-the defendant afterwards, in the month of February, 1841,
again fraudulently procured and employed the said Hill, in consideration of some certain reward to be allowed him out of the proceeds
of such pretended prize, to present the said lottery ticket as a ticket
held "byhimself to the plaintiffi, at their- office in New York, and
there demand and receive of them as for himself, but for defendant's
use and bene~t, payment of the said pretended prize, and for that
purpose the. dfendant delivered the said lottery ticket to said Hill,
who did aceordingly present the same to plaintiffi at their said office,
and then and there received of them, as for himself, and really and,
secrety for the defendant, the amount of such prize, with such deduction of fifteenrper cent.- as aforesaid."
Phalen and Morris brought an action in the Circuit Court against
Catts to recover back the amount which was thus paid, viz.: $12,500.
The declaration contpined three counts, two of which were abandoned
at the trial; the one retained being for money had and received by
the defendant below (Catts) to the use of the plaintiffs.
The facts above set forth were not-controverted, but the defendant
relied upon a law of Virginia, (to take effect from the 1st of January,
1837,) passed for the suppression of lotteries;'and also upon his being
an infant, under, the age of twenty-one years, when -the lottery in
questioii was drawn.
Whereupon the defendant prayed the court to instruct the jury as
follows, to wit:
" If the jury shall believe, from the said evidence, that the said lottery was drawn under the said act of the commonwealth of'SVirginia,
and the said contract so given in evidence as aforesaid, that then the

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

379

Catts v. Phalen et al.

said lottery was illegal; and if plaintiffs paid the amount of said
prize, under the belief that said ticket had been fairly drawn, the
plaintiffs cannot recover. And if the jury shall further believe, from
the said evidence, that in December, 1840, when the said lottery
was drawn. said defendant was an infant under the age of twentyone years, that then the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover in this
action."
Which instruction the court refused-to which refusal of the court
the- defendant excepts, and this, his bill of exceptions, is signed,
sealed, and ordered to be enrolled, this 9th day of June, 1842..
The jury returned a verdict in favour of the plaintiffs for $12,500,
to bear interest from 15th March, 1841.
Upon this exception, the case came up to this court
Coxe and Semmes, for the plaintiff in error.
Jones and Brent, for the defendants in error.
The counsel for the plaintiff in-errdr made the following points:
1. That the plaintiff; below made out no caseestablishing fheir
right to recover-in other words, that'they did not show any int~rest
day of
or property to be in them in the prize drawn on the said
Decejmber, 1840, which is in substance one of the prayers refused by
the court, viz.: " if plaintiffs paid the amount of said prize, under
the belief that said ticlet had been fairly drawn, the plaintiffs cannot
recover."
2. That the court erred in refusing to instruct the jury that, under
the act of Virginia referred to, said lottery was illegal. Plaintiff in
error will contend that the lottery was illegal, and if so, that the
plainiiffs below were not entitled to a verdict.
3. That the court erred in refusing to instruct the jury that the
infancy of the defendant (the same being in evidence) was a bar to
the plaintiffs' right to recover.
Coxe, for the plaintiff in error, said,
That if the lottery was prohibited by law, no contract under it
could be sanctioned by law. The questioh -whether the prohibitory act of Virginia was constitutional, was decided in the highest
court of that state, and brought up to this court, where it is now
pending. The court of Virginia decided that it did not impair
the obligation of contracts. 1 Robinson, 713, Phalen v. Commonwealth.

-

880

SUPREME COURT.
Catts v. -Phalen et al.

In support of the general position above taken, he cited; 11 Wheat.
258, 265, -968.; 10 Bingh. 107; 5 T. R.. 242'; 2 Hen. Bla. 379:
Carith. 252; 1-Maiileand Selw. 596.
Brent, for the defendants in error.
As to the plea of ifacy, although -theaction is assumpsit, yet tie
record shows fraud: 1 Esp . Rep. 172, 173; 2 Kent. Com. 240.
.Infancywas shown-at the time of drawing, but not when the money
was received.
As Io the -illegality of the lottery:
This ticket was in fact never 'drawi, and therefore illegality cannot
be affirmed.
This ticket was sold out of Virginia.
A contract is not void on account of the ipposition of a penalty.
8 Wheat. 353; 1 Bayley, 315; 2 Hawes, 526.
[The counsel then, examined the qu:estion 6f'the illegality of the
lottery, and the constitution4& of 'the'proibitory act, and cited,
12 Wheat. 70; Angell and Ames, 89,; 4 Gill and Johns. 198,, 144.
152; .9 Gill and Johns.405; 3 Wash. C. C, R. 319;,6 Cranch,
Fletcher and Peck.]
Jones was proceeding to argue on the same side, but the court
:expressed a'desire to waive further argtment) for the present, upon
that side.
Coxe, in reply and conclusion, relied upon the illegality of the lottery, and the right of the legislature of Virginia to revoke its grant
before.any interfsts had b-ecome vested under it. -The circumstance
that the ticlrd was sold 'm Washiiigton, made no difference, .because
l\tteries were prohibited there also; and he cited 4 Wash. C.
I. R. 129.
'Mr. Justice BALDIW)IN delivered the opinion of the court.
"Phal~n and Morris brought an action in'the court below-, to recover
'Iipm.Catts the sum of $12,500, which they Ialleged he had received
fot their use, and being so indebted, 'promised and assumed to pay, to
'which the'plaintiff'plead the general issue.
It appeared in evidence on-the trial, that the legislature of Virginia h d authorized lotteries, to raise"money for imprpving a turnpike
road m that state, which were -placed under the superintendence of
commissi6ners appointed under. those laws, who, by articles of agree
meat contracted with the plaintiffs to'manage and conduct the draw.

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

381

Catts v. Phalen et aL

ing of the lotteries authorized by tie laws, on certain terms therein
stipulated, one of which took place in Virginia, under the circumstances set forth in the statement of the case by the reporter.
In the argument for the plaintiff inerror here, it has been contended
that this lottery was illegal by the su~lpressing act of 1834, which
precluded a recovery of the money he received ; but as, in our opinion,
this cause can be decided without an examination of that question,
we shall proceed to the other points of the. case, assuming for present
purposes the illegality of the lottery.
Taking, as we must, the evidence adduced by the plaintiffs below,
to be in all respects true after verdict, the facts of the case present a
scene of a deeply, concocted, deliberate, grossi and -most wicked
fraud, which the defendant neither attempted to disprove or mitigate at
the trial, the consequence of which is, that he has not, and cannot
have any better standibg in court than if he had never owned a ticket
in the lottery, or it had never been drawn. So far as he is concerned,
the law annuls the pretended drawing of the prize he claimed.; and
in poiht of law, he did not draw the lottery; his fraud avoids not only
his acts, 'but places him in the same position as if there had been no
drawing in fact; and he had claimed and received the money of the
plaintiffs, by -means of any other false pretence, and he is estopped.
from avowing that the lottery was in fact drawn.
Such being the legal position. of Catts, the case before us is simply
this: Phalen and Morris had in their possession $12,500, either in
their own right, or as trustees for others interested in the lottery, no
matter which, the legal right to this sum.was in them, the defendant
claimed and received it by 'falsearid fraudulent pretences, as morally
criminal as by larceny, forgery, or perjury; and ihe only question
before' us is, whether he can retain it by any principle or rule of law.
The transaction between the parties did not originate in the drawing of an illegal lottery; the money was not paid on a ticket which
was entitled to, or drew the prize; it was paid and received. on the
false assertion of that fact; the. contract which the law raises between
them, is not founded on the drawing of the lottery, but on the obligation to. refund the money which has been received by falsehood and
fraud, by the assertion of a drawing which never took place. To state
is to decide such a case even if the instructions prayed by the defendant had been btoadgr than they were: The instructions prayed were,
1. Thaf if the jury believed from the evidence, that the lottery was
drawn under the law pf,Virginia, and the contract referred to, then

SUPREME COURT.
Catts v. Fhalen et al.

the lottery was illegal; and if plaintiffs paid the amount of said prize,
* under the beliefithat said ticket had been fairly drawn, the plaintiff
cannot recover; 2. That if the jury shall believe from the evidence,
that in December, 1840, when the lottery wal drawn, the defendant
was an infant, the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover in this action.
A party cannot assign for error, the refusal of an instruction to
which he has not a right to the 'full extent as stated, and in its pre
cise terms; the court is not bound to give a modified instruction
varying from the one prayed: here 'they were asked to instruct the
jury, that the belief of'the plaintiff that the ticket had been fairly
drawn, and the consequent .payment, prevented a recovery, without
referring to the fact in evidence, that that belief was caused by the
false and fraudulent assertions of the defendant.
The second instruction asked was, that the plaintiffs could not
recover, if the defendant was a minor in December, 1840, which the
court properly refused, because they were not asked to decide on the
effect of his minority when the money was received in February,
'1841 ; and because, if he had then been a minor, it would have been
no defence to an action founded on his fraud and falsehood.
The first instruction, if granted,'would have excluded from the
consideration of the jury,. all reference to the fraud which produced
such belief in the plaintifT, and they must have given it the same
effect, whether it was founded in fact, -or caused by the false asseveration of the.fact by the defendant, knowing it was a falsehood, and
thus depriving the jury of the right to decide on- the whole evidence.
The second instruction- asked would, if granted, have also taken
from- the-jury the . right of finding -for the plaintiff, if the defendant
had been of full age when the 'fraud was successfully consummated
by'the receipt of the money, which was the only fact on which the
law could raise a promise to repay, for certainly none could be raised
at any previous time; so that had these instructions been given, the
verdict must .have been rendered fbr the defendant without taking
into view the only evidence on which the plaintiff relied, whether it
was available in law or noL
For thesereasons, the judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed,
with costs.
ORDER.

This cause -came on to be 'heard on the transcript of the record
frdm the Circuit Court of-the United States for the District of.Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria, and was argued

JAN-UARY TERM, 1844.

. M8

Dade v. Irwin's'Exec-utor.

by counsel.- On consideration whereof, It is now here. ordered and
adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Circnit Court
in this cause ,be, and 'the same is -hereby affirmed with costs and
damages, at the rate of six per cent. per annum.

DADE,. COMPLArNANT, v. THOMAS IRwIN, -JuN., EXECUTOR OF
THOMAs IRWIN, DECEASED, AND WI.LLIAM L. HODGSON, DEFENP-

JANE

ANTS.

A court of equity will noit interfere; where the complainant has a proper
remedy at law, or where the complainant claims a set-off of adebf arising
under a distinct transaction, unless there is some peculiar equity calling for
relief.
Nor will it .interfere where the set-off claimed, is old and stale, with regard to
which the complainant has observed a long silence, and where the .correctness of the set-off is a matter of grave doubt.

TiS was an appeal from the Chrcuit Court of the United States
for the District of Columbia, in and for the county of Alexandria,
sitting as a court of equity.
The case was this.
In the years 1824 and 1828 Jane Dade -exeutea two deeds of
trust to one William Herbert, for the purpose of securing a debt
which she owed to Thomas Irwin,.the deceased.
In 1830, Thomas Irwin, junior, the executor of Thomas Irwin,
(who had died in the mean time,) filed a bill against Jane Dade for
the sale of the property. Herbert, the trustee, was alleged to be a
iunatic, and the bill therefore prayed that a commissioner might be
appointed'to make the sale.
Jane Dade in her answer admitted the justice of the claim as stated
in the bill. A decree was. entered in'conformity with the bill, ahd
William L. Hodgson appointed commissioner to carry the same into
effect.
On the 21st of November,'1834, Jane Dade filed another bill on
the equity side of the court, stating that the sale was to take place in
a few days, and praying that it might be saspended. She alleged
that she was entitled to a:credit under the following circumstances i.
that in 1817 she had loaned to one James I"win $680 ; that in 1821,

