JANUARY TERM, 1844.

TIE

LOUISVILLE, CINCINNATI, AND CHARLESTON RAIL-ROAD COMPANY,

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. THoM.As W

LETSON, DEFENDANT.

A citizen of one state can sue a corporation which has been created by, and
transacts its business in, another state, (the suit being brought in the latter
state,) although some of the members of the corporation are not citizens of
the state in which the suit is brought, and although the state itself may be a
member of the corporation.
The cases of Curtis v.Strawbridge, 3 Cranch, 267, Bank United States v.Deveaux and others, 5 Cranch, 84, Commercial and Rail-road Bank of Vicksburg v.Slocomb and others, 14 Peters, 60, reviewed and controlled.
The act of Congress, passed on the 28th of February, 1839, making it "lawful
for a court to entertain jurisdiction and proceed to'the trial and adjudication
of a sui.t
between parties who may be properly before it, although there may
be other defendants, any one or more of whom are not inihbitams of, or found
within, the district where the suit is brought, or do not voluntarily appear
thereto," is an enlargement of juris'diction as to the character of the parties.
The clause, exempting absent defendants from the operation of the judgment
or decree, is an exception to this enlargement of jurisdiction, and must be
strictly applied.
A carporatton created by, and transacting business in a state; is to be deemed
an inhabitant of the- state, capable of being treated as a citizen, for all purposes of 'suing and being sued, and an averment of the facts of its creation
and the place of transaciing business, is sufficient to give the Circuit Courts
jurisdiction.
Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the distnct of South Carolina.
Letson, a citizen of New York, brought an action of covenant
against the Louisville, Cincinnati, and Charleston Rail-xoad Com-

pany, alleging that they had not fulfilled a contract with him relating
to the construction of the road.
The suit was brought in November, 1841.
In April, 1842, the defendants filed a plea to the jurisdiction, which
was afterwards amended -to read as follows:
"And the said the Lomsville, Cincinnati, and Cbarleston Rail-road
Company come and say, that this court ought not to have or take

further cognisance of the action aforesaid, because they say that -the

said the Louisville, Cincinnati and Charleston Rail-road Company
is not a corporation whose members are citizens of South Carolina,
but that some of. the members of the said corporation are citizens of
South Carolina, and some of them, namely, John Rutherford and
Charles Baring, are, and were at the time of commencing the said
VOL. II.-63

2 T 2

498

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville

Rail-road Company v. Letson.

action; citizens of North Carolina, and the state of South Carolina
is, and was at the time of commencing the said action, a member of
the said corporation, and the Bank of Charleston, South Carolina, is
also, and was at the time of commencing the said action, a member
of the said corporation, which said the Bank of Charleston, South
Carolina, is a corporation, some of whose members, namely, Thomas
Parish and Edmund Lafau, are, and were at the time of commencing
the said action, citizens of New York. And the Charleston Insurance
and Trust Company is now, and was at the time of commencing the
said action, a member of the said Louisville, Cincinnati and Charleston Rail-road Company, which said the Charleston Insurance and
Trust Company, is a corporation, some of whose members, namely,
Samuel D. Dickson, Henry R. Dickson, Henry Parish, and Daniel.
Parish, are now, and were at the time of commencing the said'action,
citizens of the state of New York.
c And this the said Louisville, Cincinnati, and. Charleston Rail-road
Company are ready to verify. Wherefore they pray judgment whether this court can or will take further cognisance of the action aforesaid."
To this plea there was a general demurrer, which, upon argument,
was sustained by the court.
The rail-road company then pleaded the general issue, and the
cause went on to trial. The jury found a verdict for the plaintifl and
assessed ns damages at $18,140 23.
The writ of error was brought to review-the opinion of the court
upon the demurrer.
Mazyck, for the plaintiffs mnerror.
Pettigru,Lesesm, and Legare, (then attorney-general,) for the defendant m error.
The case was submitted upon printed arguments, and, bn account
of its great importance, the reporter has thought it proper to insert
these arguments zn extenso.
.Mazyck, for the plaintiffs m. error.
An action is brought by a citizen of New York, in the Circuit Court
in South Carolina, against a corporation whose members are alleged
to be citizens of South Carolina. A plea to the jurisdiction is set up,
in which it is averred. 1st. That two of the members of the corporation sued are citizens of North Carolina. 2d. That the state of

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

499

Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.
South Carolina is also a member. 3d. That two other corporations
are also members, and that some of the members of each of them are
citizens of the state of New York.
The objections to the jurisdiction of the court ansing out of these
'facts, (the facts.themselves being admitted by demurrer,) are embraced
in the following propositions:
1. That a citizen of one state cannot sue a corporation in the Circuif Court of the United States in another state, unless all the members of the corporation sued are citizens of the state in which the
suit is brought.
2. That a citizen of"one state cannot sue a corporation m the Circuit Court of the United States in another state, if the state be a
member of the corporation, though allthe other members of the corporation may be citizens of the state.
3. That a citizen of one state cannot sue a corporation in the Circuit Court of the United States in another state, where one of the
members of the corporation sued is another corporation, any of whose
members are citizens of the same state with the.plaintiff.
1. A citizen of one state cannot sue a corporation in the Circuit
Court of the United States in another state, uuiless all the members
of the corporation are citizens of the state in winch the suit is brought.
Sect. 2, art. 3, of the Constitution of the Uiiited States, provides
thaf th .,judicial power shall extend to controversies "c between citizenq of different states." In the case of the Bank of the United
States v. Deveaux et al.,-5 Cranch,'84, it was determined that- cthe
artificial being, the mere legal entity, a corporation aggregate, is not
a citizen, and dannot sue or be .sued in the courts of the United
States, unless the rights of the members in this respect can be exercised in their corporate name. If the corporation be considered as a
mere 1 culty,.and not as a company of individuals, who in transacting their joint concerns may use a'legal name, they must be excluded
from'the courts of the Umon. The corporate name cannot be a citizen, but the persons whom it represents may be citizens, and the
controversy is in fact, and in law, between those persons suing in
their corporate character, by their corporate name, for a corporate
right, and the individual against whom the suit may be instituted.
Substantially and essentially, the parties in such a case, where the
members of the corporation are citizens of a different state from the
opposite party, come within the spirit and terms of the jurisdiction
conferred by the Constitution on the federal courts. The contro-

500

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville

Rail-road Company v. Letson.

versy is substantially between citizens of one state suing by a corporate name and thosq of another state."
In other words, when a suit is brought in a Circuit Court of the
United States, by or against a corporation, the court with reference
to the -question of jurisdiction, depending pn the character of the
parties, overlooks the artificial person, the mere legal entity, which
cannot be either citizen or alien, and regards only the natural persons
of whom it is composed. They are the substance, the real parties,
the corporate character and style are only the form and name under
which they are presented.
As far as this question is. concerned, the members of the corporation are regarded as individuals jdintly suing or being sued.
If they have the requisite character, if they are citizens of a different state or states from the other party to the suit, the case falls within
the congtitutional provision.
In Strawbndge v. Curtis, 3 Cranch, 267, it was held that where
the interest was joint, and two or more persons were concerned in
that interest as joint plaintiffs, or joint defendants, each of them must
be competent to sue, or liable to be sued in the federal courts, and
the suit was dismissed because some of the plaintiffs and defendants
were citizens of .the same state.
And accordingly, the members of a corporation being regarded with
reference to the question of jurisdiction, as joint plaintiffs or joint defendants in the same interest, it has been determined that if any of
them are citizens of the same state with the other party to the suit,
the federal courts have no jurisdiction. Ward v. Arredondo, 1 Paine,
410; Commercial and Rail-road Bank of Vicksburg v. Slocomb et
al., 14 Peters, 60.
But in order to give jurisdiction to the Circuit Courts, founded on
the character of the parties in a suit between citizens of different states,
not only is it necessary that none of the parties on one side should be
citizens of the same state with any of the parties on the other side,
but the suit must be between a citizen or citizens of the state in which
the.suit is 'brought, and a citizen or citizens of some other state or
states. In other words, all the parties on one side must be citizens
of the state in which the suit is brought, and all the parties on the
other side must be citizens of some other state or states.
It is not dened that under the constitutional provision as to the
judicial power, Congress might, if they had thought proper, have
given to the Circuit Courts jurisdiction of all cases between citizens

JANUARY
Louisville

TERM, 1844.

Rail-road Company v.

501
Letson.

of one or more states on one side, and citizens of one or more other
states on the other side, as, for example, a case in which some of the
plaintiffs should be citizens of New York, and some of them citizens
of New Jersey, and some of the defendants citizens of South Carolina,
and some citizens of North Carolina. But though Congress might
constitutiondlly have given to the Circuit Courts jurisdiction of such
a case, they have not done so.' The 11th sect. ,of the judicial act of
1789, provides that the Circuit Courts shall have cognisance of all
suits, &c., where cc the United States are plaintiffs or petitioners, or
an alien is a party, or the suit is between a citizen of the state where
the suit is brought and a citizen of another state." If the parties on
one side are citizens of a different state from that in which the suit is
brought, and some of the parties on the other side are citizens of the
state in which the suit is brought, and some -of them are citizens of
a third state, the suit is clearly not a suit between a citizen or citizens
of the state in which it is brought, and a citizen or citizens of another
state.
This suit, for exanple, being brought in South Carolina, by a citizen
of New York, against citizens of Sbuth Carolina and North Carolina,
is not 4 suit between citizens of the state in which the suit is brought,
and a citizen of another state. It is true that if you regard only the
citizens of South Carolina who are defendants, it is a suit between
citizens of the state in which it is brought, and a citizen of another
state. But, if you regard only the citizens of North Carolina who
are defendants, (which is just as reasonable,) it 's not a suit between
citizens of the state in which it is*brought and a citizen of another
state. In truth the- suit is between the plaintiff and all the defendants, and as all the defendants are not citizens of South Carolina, it-is
not a suit between citizens of the state in which the suit is brought,
and a citizen of another state. The same rule of construction which
would make this cc a suit between citizens of the state where the suit
is brought, and a citizen of another state," within the provision of
the act of 1789, would, if applied to the constitutional provision,
make it a case ",between citizens of different states even though
some of the defendants were citizens of New York; for if you regarded only those who are citizens of South Carolina, it would be a
case between citizens of different states, yet it has been repeatedly
determined, that to bring a case between citizens within the jurtsliction of the federal courts, on account of the character of the parties,
all the parties on both sides must be citizens of different states.

502

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

Strawbridge v. Curtis, 3 Cranch, 267, Cumberland Bank v. Willis,
3 Sumner, 472, Ward v. Arredondo, 1 Paine, 410, Commercial
and Rail-road Bank of Vicksburg v. Slocomb et al., 14 Peters, 60.
The case of Gracie v. Palmer, 8 Wheat. 699, was an action against
citizens of New York, brought in the state of Pennsylvania, but that
was not a case between citizens of different states, but a case cc to
which an alien was a party," the plaintiffs being subjects of Great
Britain, and the defendants, though citizens of New York, being
found in Pennsylvania, or voluntarily appearing there, which the
court deemed equivalent to an acknowledgment of process served
there.
But it will be said that the act of 1839, 9 Laws of United States,
962, has enlarged the jurisdiction of the federal courts so as to embrace this case. That act provides that, ccwhere in any suit at law,
or in equity, commenced in any court of the United States, there shall
be several defendaiits, any one or more of whom shall not bt inhabitants of, or found within the district where the suit is brought, or
shall not voluntarily appear thereto, it shall be lawful for the court to
entertain jurisdiction, and proceed to the trial and adjudication of
such suit between the parties who may be properly before it, but the
jhdgment or decree rendered therein shall not conclude or prejudice
other parties not regularly served with process, or not voluntan y appearing to answer." In the case of the Commercial and Ra"-road
Bank of Vicksburg v. Slocomb et al., 14 Peters, 60, t&_. court
gave the following construction to that act - c The 11th section of
the judicial act declares that no civil suit shall be brought before
either of the (Circuit) Courts against an -inhabitant of the United
States by original process, in any other district than that whereof he
is an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found at the time of serving
the writ. Many difficulties occurred in practice in cases in which it
was necessary to join several defendants, some of whom were not inhabitants of the district in which the suit was brought. The act of
1839 was intended to remove these difficulties, by providing that
persons not inhabitants, or not found in the district, may either not
be joined at all, or if joined, and did not waive their personal exemption by voluntary appearance, the court may go on to judgment against
the parties before it, as if the others had not been joined. But it did
not contemplate a change in the jurisdiction of the courts, as regards
the character of the parties, as prescribed by the judicial act, and expounded by this court."

JANUARY IERM, 1844.
Louisville

503

Rail-road Company v. Letson.

Before the act of 1839, a creditor, citizen of one state, having two
joint debtors citizens of two other states, could only proceed against
them jointly. If a citizen of South Carolina, and a citizen of North
Carolina, were jointly inaebted to a citizen, of New York, he could
not proceed against -one of them without joining the other. If he
could find them both in the state of New York, he might have sued
them there in the Circuit Court of the Unitea States, because his suit
would then have been a cc suit between a citizen of the state in which
it was brought, and citizens of other states, but he could not have
sued them in the Circuit Court, either in North Carolina, or South
Carolina, because in neither case would the suit have been ",a suit
between citizens of the state in which it was brought, and a citizen
of another state." But the act of 1839, by enabling him to proceed
against them separately, enables him to sue each of them in the Circuit
Court of the United States in the state of which be is a citizen, for then
each suit is cc a suit between a citizen of the state in which it is
brought, and a citizen' of another state."
This is the whole effect of the act of 1839. But such as it is, itis
entirely inapplicable to a suit against a corporation. It provides that
the judgment, or decree, shall not conclude or prejudice other parties
not regularly served with process, or voluntarily appearing. Now,
of two or more individuals, joint debtors, each is liable for the whole
amount of the debt; and there is, therefore, no reason in the nature
of the obligation why separate judgments should not be awarded
against them. But the members of a corporation are not individually
liable for its obligations at all, and therefore from the nature of the
obligation, there can be no judgment against them individually, nor
against a part of them, the judgment must be against the body corporate, which includes all the members. And, accordingly, in the
case last cited, Commercial and Rail-road Bank of Vicksburg v. Slocomb et al., the court say" " There is another reason why this act
cannot apply to this case. It expressly declares that the judgment,
or decree, shall not conclude or prejudice other parties not regularly
served with process, or not voluntarily appearing. Now, defendants
being a corporation aggregate, any judgment against them must be
in their corporate character, and the judgment must be paid out of
their corporate funds, in which is included the interest of 'the two
Louisiana stockholders, consequently~such judgment must prejudice
those parties "'
2. A citizen of one state cannot sue a corporation in the Circuit

-SUPREME COURT.
Louisville

Rail-road Company v.

Letson.

Court of the United Ststes in another state if the state be a member of
the corporation, though all'the other members of the corporation may
be citizens of the state in which the stiit is brought.
A corporation is not a citizen of any state, and therefore an action
brought by a citizen of one state against.a corporation in another state,
is not within the jurisdiction of the federal courts, as a suit " between
citizens of different states," unless each member of the corporation is
a citizen of a different state from the plaintiff, as prescribed by the
constitution, and as it is still further restricted by the judicial act of
1789, "a citizen of .he state in which the guit is brought." As far
as the question of jurisdiction is concerned, the members of the corporation are regarded as the real defendants, sued by the name of the
corporation, and each, and all of them, must have the requisite character. Cumberland Bank v. Willis, 3 Sumnex,.472, Ward v. Arredondo, 1 Paine, 410; Commercial and Rail-road Bank v. Slocomb
et al., 14 Peters, 60.
Xow3 the state is certainly not a citizen, and therefore the state being
a member of the corporation, one of its-members has not, and cannot
have the requisite character to give jurisdiction to the court.
But it will be said that the case of the Bank of the United States
v. The Planters' Bank of Georgia, 9 Wheat. 904, has settled this
pomt m favour of the junsdiction. It is not sQ. There isa very wide
distinction between that case and this. That case, so far from having
decided this question, did not involve itnor depend upon it at all.
It -as not a case in which the jurisdiction was founded on the character of the parties. It was not a case between citizens of different
states, for some of the corporators of the Bank of the United States
-were citizens of Georgia, as appeared by the pleadings, and therefore
if the juridictiori had depended on the citizenship of the parties, it
could not have been sustained. It was a case in which the jurisdiction of the federal courts depended altogether upon the nature of the
'ase, and not at all on the character of the parties. The act of Congress, incorporating the Bank of the United States, authorized it to
sue in the Circuit Courts of the United States, and it was held in the
case of Osborne v. The Bank. of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738,
that therefore, every suit brought by the bank was a case ansing
under a law of the United States, and as such fell within the jurisdictibn of- the federal courts, without respect to the character of the
tarties.
Chef Justice Marshall, delivering the judgment of the court, in

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

__505

Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

the case of the Bank of the United States v. Planters' Bank, says- "This
is not a case m which the character of the defendant gives jurisdiction to the court. The suit is not to be sustained, because the Planters' Bank is suable in the federil courts, but because the plaintiff
has a right to sue any defendant in that court who is not withdrawn
from its jurisdiction by the Constitution or by law. The suit is
against a corporation, and the judgment is to be satisfied by the property of the corporation, not by that of the individual corporators.
The state does not, by becoming a corporator, identify itself with the
corporation. The Planters" Bank of Georgia is not the state of Georgia, although the state holds an interest in it." And again-"c The
bank does not sue because the defendant is a citizen of a differen.
state from any of its members, but because its charter confers upon it
the right of sung it- debtors m a Circuit Court of the United
States."
In that case,-the court having jurisdiction on another ground, it
was not necessary to look beyond the corporatiQn to find a ground of
jurisdiction in the character of its members.
The suit could be entertained against the corporation as a mere
artificial being, and it was not material that the corporators should be
citizens of Georgia, or who or what they were. The objection that
the state was a corporator, would have been as strong in a state court
having general jurisdiction as in the federal courts, whose jurisdiction is limited, the case being, from its nature, within the jurisdiction,
for a state can no more be sued in a state court than in the federal
-courts, and as it could not have prevailed in a state court, so neither
could it in thefederalcourts. The answer is, the action and thejudgment
are against the corporation, and the corporation is not the state, though
the state may be a member of it. But in this case, in order to give
jurisdiction to the federal court, it is necessary that all the members
of the corporation should be citizens of the state, and the objection
is, not that cne mniber of the corporation is the state, which cannot
be sued, but that one member of the corporation being the state is
not a citizen of the state, and therefore, it is not a case in which all
the members of the corporation are citizens of the state in which the
suit is brought, or citizens of a difierent state from the plaintifT There
is nothing in the character of-the defendants to deprive the court of
jurisdiction, if the court possessed jurisdiction independently of that
character; but then there is nothing m their character to give junsdiction, and there is not, as in the Bank of the United States v. Planters'
VOL. II.-64
2U

506

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

Bank of Georgia, a ground of jurisdiction independent of the character of the defendants.
3. A citizen of one state cannot sue a corporation in the Circuit
Court of the United States in another state, where one of the membeis of the corporation sued is another corporation, any of whose
members are citizens of the same state with the plaintiff.
It has been sufficiently shown that a corporation is not a citizen,
and that a suit brought by a citizen of one state against a corporation
in another state, is not within the jurisdiction of the federal courts,
unless all the members of the corporation are citizens of the state in
which the suit is brought, or at least citizen§ of a different state from
the plaintiff. If one of the members of the corporation sued is another corporation, and you regard the latter only as an artificial being,
then one of the members of the corporation sued is not a citizen) and
the suit is not a solt "cbetween citizens of different states." But if
you follow up the process which was adopted int the first instance,
and looking beyond the stockholder -corporation to the individuals of
whom it is composed, with reference to the question of jurisdiction,
regard them as the real stockholders, and the corpbration only as the
mode and name m which they hold their shares, then if they are citizens of a different state from the plaintiffs, it is a suit between citizens
of different states, but otherwise it is not. If the same individuals
without being incorporated were joint owners of the same shares, and
some of them were citizens of the same state. with. the plantiffl the
suit would .certavily not be a suit "between citizens of different
states." And if for the purpose of -determining the jurisdiction, the
corporate character is overlooked,,and only the.mdfviduals are considered, -the case must be the same as if they were not incorporated
at all. If the court will not look beyond the surface of the constituent
corporation to the character of it&members, the jurisdiction cannot
be sus6ined. If it will, and should find them to be all citizens of
the state in which the suit is brought, would they not be regarded as
the real parties for the purpose of sustaining the jurisdiction ? Then
if any of 'them are found to be citizens of the same state with.the
plaintiff, must they not be equally regarded as the real parties, and so
defeat the jurisdiction?
Suppose that the corporation against which the action was brought,
was found to be. composed entirely of corporations, (wnch is a very
possible case,) and that all the members of the several constituent
corporations were citizens of the state in which the suit was brought,

JANUARY
Louisville

TERM, 1844.

507

Rail-road Company v. Le-tson.

would the court refuse to entertain jurisdiction? Would it not in
such a case, with reference to the jurisdiction, regard the members
of the constituent corporations as the real defendants, and assume the
jurisdiction? They would be as truly the real parties as the incividual members of a corporation consisting of individuals, and being
the immediate defendant; the corporation being only the modes in
which they are associated, affecting very materially the nature and
extent of their rights and obligations, the forms of proceeding, and
the nature and extent of the remedies for or against them, but not at
all affecting their liability to the jurisdiction of the federal courts. For
if they did, then all men might be withdrawn from the jurisdiction
of the federal courts by charters of incorporation. But if in the case
of a corporation, consisting entirely of several corporations, the court
would look beyond the constituent corporations to the character of
their members, it must also in the case of a corporation, consisting
in part of individuals, and in part of another corporation, and if any
of the members of the constituent corporations are citizens of the
same state-with the plaintiff, the jurisdiction cannot be sustained.
for the defendant in error.
Pettigru and Lesesnew,
This was an action of covenant by T. W Letson, a citizen of
New York, against the defendants, described as a corporation consisting of citizens of South Carolina.
After a summons and distringas,. the defendants appeared, and
pleaded to the jurisdiction. 1. That Mr. Baring and Mr. Rutherfor&
are members of the company, and citizens of North Carolina. 2. That
the state of South Carolina is a member of the company. 3. That
the Bank of Charleston, South Carolina, is a member of the company;
and that Edmund Laffan, a shareholder in said bank, is a citizen of
New York. 4. That the South Carolina Insurance and Trust Company is a member of the company that is sued-; and that Samuel
Dickson, a shareholder in the South Carolina Insurance and Trust
Company, is a citizen of New York.
The plaintiff below demurred to theplea, and the court sustained
the demurrer. The defendants then pleaded to the action, and a
verdict was had against them, judgment entered up on the demurrer
and verdict. To reverse the judgment, this writ of error is prosecuted.
1. The first objection assumes that all the defendants must belong.
to one state. ,But there is ro such rule. According to the authon-

,508

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville

Railroad Company v. Letson.

ties, it is sufficient that all the members of the corporation that is sued
are citizens of some state, other than that of which the plaintiff is a
citizen. Cumberland Bank v. Willis, 3 Sum. 373. It may, perhaps,
be questionable, whether the citizenship of any but the persons who
have the government of the corporation should be inquired into. In
Curtis v. Strawbridge, 3 Cro. 267, it was settled, that each distinct
interest must be represented by persons, all of whom are entitled to
sue or be sued in the federal courts. But this leaves open the
question, whether all the pnvatp members of a corporation are
properly the persons by whom a distinct interest is represented,
when the corporation sues, or is sued. The interest of the corporation is, in fact, represented by the official members of the
company. The real plaintiffs are those who have the right to sue,
and the defendants those who may be compelled to plead. But a
private member of the company has no power to sue, nor to prevent
a suit in the name of the company; nor can his admissions be given
m evidence, as in the case of a plaintiff Greenleaf on Ev 383. And
when the corporation is sued, there is the same want of privity between a private member and the party to the record. He cannot be
summoned or distrained to answer to a demand against the corporation, or to any rule or order connected with the cause. cc Where a
corporation is impleaded, the sheriff cannot distrain a private man ;"
Bro. Ab. Trespass, 135. "cFor a duty or charge on a corporation,
every particular member is not liable but process ought to go in their
public capacity." Vent. 351. In practice a summons goes m the
first instance,.and is served on the head of the company, and in case
of refusal, a distress issues against the company's goods, &c., to compel an appearance, (Tidd. Prac. 115,) but no appearance could be
enforced by any proceedings against a particular member. Now it is
difficult to conceive of a defendant, without some process to compel
him to. appear; but if that be essential to the character of a defendant,
the private member, of a corporation is excluded. If every member
of. the corporation has a right to be heard as a party objecting to the
jurisdiction, it must be competent to the plaintiff to treat any member
of the company as a defendant throughout. But a corporation in
South Carolina -cannot be sued in North Carolina by proceeding
against a private member domiciled there. It seems a solecism to
hold that the plaintiff cannot proceed in the federal court against the
corporation, because A. is a defhndant; and yet that A. cannot be
sued for the same cause of action anywhere, or m any court. It is

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Louisville

509

Rail-road Comnpany v. Letson.

as, much as to say that A. is a defendant, and no defendant-a-party,
and not a party, at one and the same time. The result of these con.
siderations is, that in suits by or against a corporation, the relatioi
of the official members to the rest of the company is not that of partners, bilt of trustee and cestut que trust. If -this be admitted, ther.
is an end of the matter, for nothing is more familiar than the difference between an interest in the suit, and the character of a party to
the record. There is no rule of pleading, or of evidence, that will
apply to a particular member of a corporation, as a party to the
record, he cannot be called on to answer, or.to accept notice, his
release would not affect the action, his admissions are not evidence,
and, in fact, he never was taken notice of as a party, except to defeat
the jurisdiction m this court. It may well be questioned whether
such an anomaly can be reconciled with legal principles.
Nor does this reasoning militate against the decision of the Bank v..
Deveaux, 5 -Cranch, 61, which is admitted to be the leading case.
It was necessary in that case, to look beyond the corporate character
to see who were the persons that were. suing in the corport( ame.
The court decided that they would take notice of the imdividuals who
composed the corporation. But this rule is satisfied if the court
ascertains that the individuals who effectually represent the.company
are amenable to the jurisdiction. There are other instances in which
it has been necessary to look, beyond the corporate name for the real
actors; but m such cases, the official members only have been considered. We have the benefit of wrecedents here. The-residence
of a corporation can only be ascertained by reference to the natural
persons composing it. Just as the court will mquire who sue m the
corporate name, to ascertain whether they are citizens, the same
question is sometimes asked to ascertain where they live. Rex v.
Garden, Cow. 85. But it-is to the official, not to the private members, that the court refers in such case, to determine the occupancy
or residence of the corporation. It is held to residewhere its principal office is. Bank v. Mackenzie,.2 Brock. 393. And so in the
grant of administration where the question of bona notabiliaoccurs,
a share in a company that extends to both provinces, is considered
assets in that province where the office of the company is situated.
Smith v. Stafford, 2 Wil.. Chan. Rep. 166. There can be no reason
fbr making a difference between residence ard citizenship. If the
condition of the official members is decis ve of the question of dormoil, it is equally so of citizenship.
2u2

510

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville Rail-road ° Company v. Letson.

A corporation is but a state in immature, but in political societies,
the persons in whom the powers of government are vested, are everywhere considered trustees for the rest of the community. Public acts
are done in the name of the whole community, and all are bound by
them-;, but the real authors of them are the persons who have the
administration, nor are such acts referred personally to anybody
else. In public questions, the demand is made on the government;
and m private causes, the same course is pursued, when the injured
party has any judicial redress. The Supreme Court has jurisdiction
between the states. of the confederacy, and before the 11th amendment, the states were liable to be sued as corporations. But though
the corporate interests of the whole community are-at stake in such
a controversy, agreeably to the pnnciples of legal prqedure, no
notice is taken of any person as defendant, but those who have the
right to exercise the powers of gowvmment. In the English courts,
when a foreign state 'is the suitor, the head.of the state is the only
person that is recognised as the plaintiff. The Columbian Governmept v. Rothschild, 1 Sin. 94.. Every analogy confirms, the conclusion, that the parties who are invested with the corporate powers, as
governors of the company, are trustees, and in legal procedure should
be treated so throughout.
The case of London v. Wood, 12 Mod. 669, is the authority which
the court followed, in the Bank v. Deveaux, taking notice of the natural persons who sue in the corporate name. 'But that case is a striking
illustration of the distinction contended for, between the official and
the pnvate members of the corporation, as parties before the court in
their natural persons. Wood was sued in, the mayor's court by the
mayor and commonalty of London, and the judgment was reversed
for error, because the mayor was both judge and plaintiff. It was
not an answer to the objection, that he was plaintiff in his corporate
character, and judge in his natural person, for it was the same mdividual. But if the cause had beed tried in.the Common Pleas, before a judge who was a freeman, and therefore one of the commonalty
of London,- the objection would not have applied. The argument
for reversing the judgment against Wood is confined to the incongruity of the mayor being plaintiff in ihe same case in which he was
judge. But no objection is made to the aldermen who were a constituent part of his court, although they must ilave been included in
the general designation of the commonalty. Suits in the name of the
people of the state are tried before a judge who is one of the same

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

511

Louisville Railroad Company v. Letson.

people, and no one imagines that he is both-party and judge. And
so suits in which the city is a party are without any incongruIty tried
before a citizen.
The distinction between the official and the private members of
the corporation corresponding exactly with that of -trustee and cestut
que trust, is founded on the plainest principles, and has never been
overlooked in any case, but in that of the junsdiction of this court.
Yet there is no reason why this case should be an exception. On
the contrary, every reason 'in favour of the jurisdiction applies with
great'force to a controversy between a stranger and a large corporation. In legal reason, the president and directors are trustees for the
company, and in point of fact, the contest is between the plaintiff
and the persons who have the government of the company, and so
falls within the letter as well as the spirit of the Judiciary act, as a
suit between citizens of the state in which the action is brought and
a citizen of another state.
A corporation has not the qualities of a person. But-it acts by
the agency of natural persons, and the acts which they do in the
execution of the corporate powers are strictly their personal acts;
The bringing or defending of a suit in the corporate name is the act
of the official members in their natural persons; but is not the personal act of their constituents. The private members of the company
are concerned in the suit in their corporate character merely, and the
only persons having any:personal relation to the suit are'the official
members. The private members cannot be called parties to the suit
of a corporation without confounding the distinction between the
natural and corporate character. In their corporate character they.
are parties, but as persons or citizens they have nothing more to do
with the suit than a private man with a state prosecution. When,
therefore, to defeat the jurisdiction, it is alleged that such or such a
person, a private member of the corporation, is a party to the suit,
the allegation is neither accurate in reason nor true in fact. The
private persons are represented by the corporate name, not as persons,
but as a faculty. The only persons who have any individuality in
the corporate name, or can be called persons suing, are the official
members.
Waiving, however, this discussion, which -is not. essential to the
case, the objection that two of the members of the corporation are
citizens of North Carolina, cannot avail. There is nothing in the
constitution or in the act of Congress, which requires that all the de-

512

SUPREME *COURT.
Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

fendants must be citizens of the state in which the action is brought.
The act of 1838, 9 Laws United States, 699, seems to be only declaratory. By the constitution, the jurisdiction of the federal courts
extends to, cases generally between citizens of different states. The
Judiciary act confers jurisdiction on the Circuit Court in narrower

terms, between a citizen of the state where the suit is brought and a
citizen of another state. But when the parties to the contract .reside
in different states, the party who is sued cannot plead the nonjoinder
of the party who is out of the jurisdiction. The proviso in the 11th
section exempts persons from being arrested in one district for trial
in another, and from any process to compel appearance in any other
than that m which the party is found. But the defendant may waive
this exemption, and if he voluntarily appears to a suit properly brought
against his co-defendant, and-which might have been properly brought
agamsthin in his districtit is nor error. Graciev. Palmer, 8 Wheat. 699.
No attempt has been made to arrest Mr. Banng or Mr. Rutherford,
in the district of North Carolina, for trhl in this district. Nor has
any attempt been made to bring a suit. against either of the defendants in any district in which they were not found. The original
process -was directed to the marshal qf South Carolina5 and executed
in his district. If the members who are alleged to be citizens of
North Carolina are before the court, they have either appeared voluntarily or they have been found in South Carolina. If the plea is
considered the plea of the absentees, it contradicts itself, they cannot
appear and object to appear. If they have been found in South
Carolina, they are rightly suable there with co-defendants who are
citizens of that state, by the plaintiff, a citizen of New.York. If they
have not been found in South Carolina, how can they allege that they
are parties? But if the plea to the jurisdiction be considered as the
plea of the other members objecting that they cannot be sued without joining persons who are inhabitants of North Carolina, the answer
is that they are joined. All the members of the company in their
corporate character are residents at Charleston, and for any cause of
actiofi which concerng the corporation, they cannot .be sued anywhere
else. A defendant who is arrested in one district for trial in another,
may waive hfs privilege, and if he appear to the suit he cannot object
to the jurisdiction. But in a suit against a corporation, the defendants are not liable to be sued anywhere except in the district in which
the corporation can be compelled to appear. By becoming members
of the company they have submitted generally to, the jurisdiction,- by

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

513

Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

appearing to the writ they have submitted to the jurisdiction in-this
particular case, and the pled-to the.jurisdiction is doubly irregular.
2. The second objection is conclusively answered by the Bank of
the United States v. The Planters' Bank, 9 Wheat. 904. It is,
however, argued that the decision an that case depended on the
charter of the bank authorizing the said bank to sue in the federal
court. But the Judiciary act authorizes the plaintiff .to sue the citizens of South Carolina in the federal court. The bank charter did
not authorize the bank to sue a state, nor does the law authorize the
plaintiff to sue a state, but the state, by becoming a'party.to a company, whether corporate or not, dces not exempt the company from
suit, and so the cases of the plaintif, and of the Bank of'the United
States v. The Planters' Bank, .are identical in principle.
3. The third objection resolves itself into the question whether
Mr. Laffan is a defendantin this suit; or, in other words, a member
of the Louisville, Cincinnati, and Charleston Rail-road Company.
The negative is so.evident that it is difficult to illustrate what is so
clear. If he was a member, he would be entitled to the same pnvileges with other members, but he is in fact incapable of doing any
act which it requires a member of the company to do. He may vote
in the choice of an agent or proxy-to represent the Bank of Charleston in the charter-meetings of the'company. But to call him a
member of the company is to overlooklthe distinction between. the
representative and the constituent. It is not the charter of. the company, but that of the *baik,under which he acts whew he votes for
an agent of-the bank. If his right to vote fdr an agent or, proxy
were contested, it is to the charter of the bank, and t6 that alone,
ihat he must refer for his authority.
Again, if he was a member of the company he.would be-liable
to the same burdens as the rest of the company, but he is entirely
exempt from their obligations and bound by none of their by-laws.
They could not expel lm or forfeit his stock. It is true that he has
an interest, though a remote one, in the company. It is an interest
of the same lnd as that which creditors or legatees have in ,the
testator's assets, or a cestuz que trust m the trust-estate. But such an
interest, though immediate and direct, would not make him a party
to the suit in which the subject was contested by the executor or
trustee. Chappedelaine v. Decheneau, 4 Cranch, 306. "It may
be laid down as a rule without exception, that when jurisdiction
depends on the party, it is the party named on the record." Madrazzo
VOL. II.-65

SUPREME COURT.
1Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

v. The Governor of Georgia, 1 Peters, 110. Mr. Laffan then, is not
a defendant, and the third objection fails.
But it is said that the Bank of Charleston is a defendan m its corporate character, and that against a corporation as such, the federal
court has no jurisdiction. In answer, it is sufficient to. say that the
court has jurisdiction, because all the persons who are sued are
citizens of South Carolina. The members of the company must be
understood to be persons. It is -nough that against the persons
sued the court has jurisdiction. There is no such thing as the communication of an immumty from justice. It would have been competent for the legislature of South Carolina to exempt the Bank of
Charleston from the ordinary jurisdiction. But the ptvvilege would
not have extended to every joint-stock company in which the bank
might become a shareholder. A corporation, as a mere faculty or
legal entity, cannot be a member of an incorporated company, for by
members is meant the natural persons of whom the body politic is
made up. The property in the shares is a different matter. The
stock of the company may be appropfiated to objects animate or
inammate. A slave, an alien, an enemy, or even a dead man, might
be a shareholder, or the shares might be dedicated to the repairs of
a house, to the improvement of land, or to the use of persons unborn.
But it would-be a frivolous objection to 4 suit against the corporation
that some of its shares belonged to nobody. 'When shares in one
corporation are held by another corporation, they belong to the
government of the corporation which is the shareholder, as trustee
for the corporate uses. In fact, the Bank of Charleston would have
been incompetent to make the contract on which the action in this
case is founded, and if this could be regarded as an action against
the bank, it might have been resisted as founded on an illegal contract.
4. The fourth objection 'is the same precisely as the third and
must be overruled for the same reasons.
Legare,.(then attorney-general,) on the same side.
The argument of Mr. Petigr, for the defendant in error, contains
such a clear and able exposition of the question arising under the
demurrer, that I will submit it to the court, by way of an opening,
and cast my own in the form of a reply to Mr. .ffazyck's, for the
plaintiffs.
But I will, in the first place, barely recall to the recollection of the

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Louisvlle

515

Rail-road Co'mpany v.Letson.

court, that this is an action brought bya citizen of New York against
a corporation chartered by the state of South -Carolina, having its
principal, if not only, office in Charleston, conducted- by a president
and directors who are all citizens and residents of the latter state,
and composed of stockholders, among whom, two only are so much
as surmised to be absent from the state, (but neither of these resident
in New York;>.and a third'is another corporation, in all respects exelusively an institution-a creature of the law of South Carolina,
identified with it even in name-viz. the-Bank of Charleston.
If tins court has not jurisdiction to protect the rights of a citizen
of New York, whose whole -fortune-the fruit of his labour-is involved in a.controversy with a trading company, thus created, thus
composed, thus situated, under that article of the Constitution of the
United States which gives to.-the federal courts cognisance of cc controversies between citizens of different states," everybody will admit
that there is somewhere a great chasm in our laws, and a serious
grievance in our practice.
But I am bold to assert, that the paradox which I have just stated
does not exist in our jurisprudence. All will-admit that the burden
of proof is upon hin who affirms.the existence of such a state of the
law. In an age when, more than ever,.and in a country where, most
of all, from obvious.pectiliarities of'position and of polity, the spirit
of association goes hand in hand with that of commerce, and all
great enterprises, without exception, throughout the whole extent of
this vast confederacy, are carried onby incorporated companies, local
in nothing but their name and- origin, it will be adntted to be, a
prwn, a most improbable proposition, that in any courts,.under any
circumstances, in any'cause in which mere .voluntary partnerships
would have a remedy, all redress.is demed to a company, because'it
is clothed by law in the attributes of a partnership expressly adapted,
by a peculiar orgamiation,.to the most important ends. This is putaing
the case in the least adventurous manner ; for, in truth, in the
eye of the law, a corporation, while it is-a partnership -for all -the good
purposes of such a company, differs from it in this, that its business
can be transacted, and its existence perpetuated, without the" complexity and embarrassments of rights, responsibilities, and representations incident to.a change of indiviAual members in a -mere voluntary concern; BelPs Comm., Adley v. Whitestaple Company, 17 Ves.
323. It is a legal unit-a distinct and well defined person-immortal, unchangeable, capable, as such, of taking, holding, conveymg;

516

SUPREME COURT.
Louis.ville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

administering, and defending property, known to the law by its corporate name only; speakmg-(formally and strictly) its will -nly by its
seal, appearing in the courts only by its attorney, with a warrant
under seal, represented only by'its regularly constituted trustees or
managers-the feoffees, so to speak, to its uses; and having a persona
standi sm judicw in this representative capacity, and by this name,
and none other. Therefore, as I shall contend, it ought to be less
embarrassed in the judicial pursuit of its rights than an unincorporatea company; but say that it is liable to thb same and no greater disadvantages, the question is whether, in the present state of the law,
it would be any answer to the, demand of the defendant in error for
justice in a federal court-the Circuit Court of South Carolina-agamst
a partnersip with its office in Charleston, and carrying on it business there,' as the domicile of the company, that one of those interested in it, as a dormant partner, for so a mere stockhqlder is, or
even .as an open and proclimed' partner, resides in a third state,
neither that of the plaintiff nor of the defendant.
If the act of 1839 was not made to prevent the possibility of such
a demal of justice, what is it good forP
That act dispenses with the appearance, in a suit, of a party confessedly necessary, at common law, to a complete representation of
all the interests in controversy. It ordains, that when there shall
be several defendants, any one or more of whom shall not be found
within a district, or be inhabitants of it, or shall not voluntarily appear, the court may proceed to adjudication between the parties properly before it, and the non-joinder shall not be pleadable in abatement.
Admit, therefore, that Banng and Rutherford, -members of this
partnership or company, are inhabitants of North Carolina, who do
not choose to appear, and have not been found m Charleston, and
admit further, (what is not the fact,) that they are necessary parties as
defendants-I say, put aside the corporation, which merges entirely
their legal interests, and makes their appearance in person a legal impossibility, and violating every principle of pleading and practice
known in an English court-admit them to be full, open, and avowed
copartners, and competent co-suitors, of the defendants below-yet
their appearance to this suit is dispensed with. If they appear, the
jurisdiction is unquestionable, by the express words of the act, and
the judgment binds them as parties, if they do not appear, they are
not parties to the judgment, as they are not parties in interest, and

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

517

Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.
it will be time enough to plead their absence (if such-a plea be possible in our law) when any suit shall be prosecuted against them personally on the strength of the judgment in this case. But how can
their appearance or non-appearance affect the question ofjurisdiction,
which depends, even in the case of necessary parties, on the fact of
citizenship P Who ever heard before that the voluntary appearance
of a citizen of a state gives jurisdiction to the federal courts, in a case
in which that jurisdiction depends, not on the character of the cause,
or the state of'the pleadings, or the service of process-still less the
will of an individual-but simply on the fact of citizenship or no citizenship, or, as it is commonly expressed, on the character of the
parties-that is; on.a distinct and ascertained civil status in the parties.
But this is putting the case much too favourably for the plaintiffs in
error. It is admitting Baring and Rutherford to be necessary parties;
that is, parties having a legal capacity to represent the interests in
controversy, and..indispensable to an. adjudication on the subject of
those interests. This, however, is not the fact. These gentlemen,
even considered as partners; were dormant partners, not known in
the transaction-never heard of by the plaintiff below-no parties
(except by legal distant consequence) to the covenant he sues upon,
and, therefore, laying the charter and'the metaphysical being of the
corporation out of the case. for the present, -and considering them' as
members of a mere voluntary partnership, it is not true that they
could have come in and pleaded at all to the declaration, still less
that the president and directors, who did contradt and covenant with
the plaintiff 'below,.would be allowed to plead that these unknown,
unheard of, foreign persons, ought to be made parties to the suit, for
the purpose of defeating it. The law is settled that dormant partnars,
as defendants, are not only not necessary parties, but are not alloved
to become parties to the record where they 'were not so to the contract, and thus to defeat by surprise (which might be a fraud.) a plaintiff who had never 'heard of them. De Montford v. .Saunders,
1 Barn. and Adol. 398.
It does not lie in their mouths, as the legal phrase is, after treating
as A., B., and C., to say, theyrepresented the whole alphabet. To say
that this is'true in all contracts whatever, except where they are to be
passed on by a federal court, would be simply absurd. It might just
as well be pleaded to a separate action on a joint and several bond
against a citizen of South Carolina. that the co-obligor resided in
North Carolina.
2X

518

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville

Rail-road Company v. Letson.

Analogous to this equitable rule is that which makes a distinction
between the form of an.objection for non-joinder of parties in an action. If the plamtff comes -into court without making all who have
a joint interest in the subjdct of the controversy a legal interest, that
is. parties to the suit, it is a defect of which (if it appear upon the
pleadings) advantage may be taken by demurre.r, or in arrest ofjudgmerit. But in a non-joinder of defendants, there is only one wayand
one time of taking the exception-it must be done by plea in abatement. It is no bar, it is no ground for nonsuit on variance, and if
the cause is allowed to go on at all, it is too late to object tlhat some
parties to the contract have not been held to their responsibility.
Whelpdale's case, 5 Co. 119 a, 1 Saund. 154, n. 1, 291 b, n.
4, &c.,
Those well-established, general principles should seem to make it
'verv clear, that by the law as it stands, especially since the passing
of the act of 1839, Messrs. Baring and Rutherford were either no
parties to this suit at all, as having nothing to do with the transaction
of the ordinary business of the company, or might be dispensed with
under that act as absent defendants.
It is beyond all controversy, that were this a mere voluntary partnership and they avowed members, their appearance might be dispensed with, and their existence, as citizens of North Carolina, would
not affect the jurisdiction. This is the act of 1839.
It is, if possible, still clearer, that were they only dormant partners
of a firm, the aid of the act'of 1839 would not be at all wanted to dispense -with their appearance. They would, not be allowed at common law to come in and plead even in abatement, much less in barr
that they were parties; neither would the visible and legally responsible members of such a partnership be permitted to put in ar'- such
plea.
It is certain that, if they appeared voluntarily, the court would have
jurisdiction, for so says the act of 1839, in the wordsjust cited. "if
the absent'do not voluntarily appear." So said this court in Gracie
v.Palmer, 8 W"heat. 699, and this notwithstanding the words of the
1lth sect. of the Judiciary act, in that very. proviso of which the act
of 1839 was intended to mitigate or prevent the evil effects. That
at, after confemng the jurisdiction in general terms, goes on to make
an exception, which proves the extent of the rule it modifies and.
restricts. It authorizes suits to be brought "between a citizen of the
state where the suit is brought and a citizen of another state," with

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

519

Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.
this important qualification, ccthat no inhabitant of the United States
shall be suable in any other distnct.than that whereof he is an inhabitant,, or in which he shall be found at the time of serving the
writ." Nothing can be more express than thi§ proviso, but the court
said these words were to be understood there, cif he saw fit to
object to it."
It is the settled law of this court, that a defendant may renounce
the privilege extended to him in this proviso, and if he be suable at
allin the Circuit Court, that is, if he be a citizen -of a state different
from that of the plaintiff, he may be sued by consent in any court;
for it is only in matters of personal pnvilege that consent gives jurisdiction. This I say is settled law, and so clear 4nd unquestionable
that the learned counsel for the plaintiff in error admits that before the
act of 1839, if a creditor having two debtors, citizens of different
states, could find them both in his own, (New York,):he might have
sued them there irr the Circuit Court of the United States, because
his suit would then have been a suit between a.citizen of the state in
which it was brought and citizens of other states. (p. 7.) But suppose he did not find them there, and they chose-to appear, or, which
is the same thing, to be regarded.in law as found in the state of one
of them, how, could the privileged.partner atonee waive and assert
his personal exemption ?-appear and not appear P Or, what is still
more important, if consent can gve jurisdiction in such -a case in one
place, why should it not have the same virtue in another
The truth is, the moment it is. admitted, that a party may. -appear
voluntarily, or be held in any other way to answer, in any state, which
is neither his own nor that of his adversary, the whole matter is settled
to be one of mere procedure and service of process, jurisdiction is no
wise involved in it,- for that is matter of. fundamental law, and not at
the discretion of parties.
And so.is the act of 1839. It applies to the very case of a joint
o'ntract between parties residents of different states, (both different
ot course from that of the plaintiff, for only in such a case was it competent for Congress to give jurisdiction,) and it- provides expressly,
that if the absent party will not waive his privilege by appearing, as
this court in Palmerl§ case, 8 Wheat. 699, ruled that he might, the
Circuit Court should go on without hun.
The case appears to me so very simple, upon the principles and
authorities alrqady cited, that I should leave it here, but that the cWunsel for the plaintiff in error founds-himself upon a recent decision of

SUPREME COURT.
L'ouisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

this court, which he seems to think has made a law for corporations
aggregate, altogether different from any law applicable to natural persons, either as individuals or as partnerships, and altogether different,
I must say, from. any law known to any system ofjurisprudence with
winch I am acquainted.
He lays down these propositions:
1. " That a citizen of one state, cannot sue a corporation in the
Circuit Court of the 'United States in another state, unless all the
members of the corporation are citizens ofthe state in which the suit
is brought."
I have demontrated that if this company.be 'considered, as a mere
partnership, or voluntary association, the residence in another state,
as well as the non-appearance of Messrs. Banng and Rutheiford,
would be wholly immaterial under the act of-1839,
If the -company be considered as a corporation, the same consequence: follows, with the single -anomalous exception which I shall
presently notice, a fortion.
The first great difference between a- corporation and a private partnership or voluntary association is,4hat in the former the company acts
only by its constitutional.organs, whether a committee of directors or
appolhted officers, while, in the latter, the obligations of a single
member, or number of members, by the subscription. of the firm, will
bind the society. . Bell's Com. 556, 5th ed.
A corporation, or to speak in the more accurate and scientific language of.the continental jurists, a ccjundical person,' is, as I have
said, a creature 6f the law, known to-it under a given name, whose
essence is in that name and the social identity it implies-whose capacitie are' defined 14 its 'charter-whose will, is expressed under its
seal-whose tnity is affected by no change in, the -parts that compose
it-and whose existence survives the deaths- of its members.
It. is, properly' considered, a personification of certain legal rights
under a description imposed upon it by the power that created- it. Its
name is a thing-it, is every thing' -this creature of law is,a standing
fiction and style--stat nomznts umbra.
The first. consvquence of this definition is, .that the whale is essentially and unchangeably different from all the parts, which are as
completely merged and lost i" it as the ingredients are-in a chenical
compound.
-Thispersonificationrfthe rights ofproperty has,,as a necessary nstrument, a persona standi enjudido of its own, and it appears, defends,

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

521

Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

and pleads in the court, as it transacts nl its other business, ex necessitate rez, by means of living agents, generally organized m a particular form, proceeding in prescribed modes, and testifying the will
of the i'deal unity by authentic acts.
A corporation aggregate is the most common-ih this country perhaps, strictly speaking, the only form of this juridical person, but,
the common condition of all of them, whether sole or aggregate,
lay or ecclesiastical, civil or. eleemosynary, ordinata or mordinata,
is a capacity to enjoy the rights of property, without the capacity of
contracting m regard to- them, except through guardians, trustees,
or curators.
They stand m this'respect precisely m the same category with minors, lunatics, and idiots.. For instance, the church is considered in
law as a minor; the text is express: fingitor vice morm.
*
*
Infra atatem et m cvstodia domrm regy est. 2 Iust. 3.
Therefore, as we have seen, for all the purposes of valid agreement or judicial remedy and representation, this ideal cestuz que t&st
or ward, wills, speaks, acts, pleads; onlr in the name ofits constitutional curator or trustee.
I It is all-iinportant to any thiig like correct thinking on the subject
of corporations, that. this distinction between the members as constituents of an organizd body, and as unorgamized inditiduals, 6hould
never be lost sight of. The principle i inflexible that i' -a corporation all the parts are not the whole. This is not only tr~e 6f the
conduct or administration of a.corporation., it is true also of its rights
of property. They are referred, no, to all. the meribers, but entire
and undivided to the judicial person, as a unity-m law.
Hence, for the purpose of a suit, the.corporation must appear by
its constitutional organs or curators; the appearance of each and
every member is no appearance at all. Bro. Corporation, 28, Co.
Lit. 66 b.
A corporation, when it is a anwersitas or nata, may be so organized that one or a few of its officers, or a small minority of its members, may exercise all its legal rights and powers, Umon Turnpike v.
Jenkins, 1 Cames's Rep. 381, but even were thi whole body of the
society required to pass upon every corporate act:in the spirit of a
perfect democracy, yet a majbrity would be a quorum, -and a majority
of that quorumwould have, in the absence'bf 9h.restraiuts iii the
charter, the supreme disposal of its concerns. The fdfidamental
maxim here is, un est majorpars, ib&est tota, (unwersitas.)
VOL. U.-66
2x2

522

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville

Rail-road Company v, Le-tson.

On principle, therefore, and in the absence of all,positive authority
to the. contrary, it musf be considered as wholly immaterial, with a
view to the validity of any legal act, what one or a few members of anumerous incorporated society have thought, or wished, -or done, in
regard to it. "A corporation," as the greatest junst of our day expresses it, 'cconsists of the whole, formed of its members. Thewill
of a corporation is not merely the concurring will of all its,members,
but that even of a bare majority of them. Therefore, the will of a
bare majority of all its existing members is to be regarded as having
the disposal, and being invested with all the rights of the corporation. This rule is founded on the law of nature, inasmuch as, if
unanimity were demanded, it would be quite impossible for any corporation to will and to act. It is also confirmed by the Roman law."
(Savigny's System of the Roman Law, as it now is, vol. 2, p. 329,
sect. 97, cites L. 160, sect. 1, reg.jur., Dig. 50, 7.
eferturadurnversos quod pliC.fitper mojrem partem.).
An& so it is by the common law, of which I have just cited the received maxim on this head. Indeed, as Szvigy remarks, it must
be so in the nature ofthings, and the consequende is irresistible, that,
to set up the Will of a few members of a society, artificially organized
into a body corporate, against that of the majority or the governing
part of it, is to violate -fundamental principles, and to confound all
ideas of such an association.
Take the-case before the court- domicile, supposing it to depend
on the will of the members of a corporation, is, perhaps, a subject of
more vital importance than any other that can be submitted to their
decision. Great interests of-all sorts, as we see in this case, depend
upon it. And is it to be tolerated for a moment, as a doctrine of law,
that such a question shall- be determined by the caprice of every
member of the body P According to such a doctrine, no corporation
can possibly have a "clocal habitation" with its "cname," or if it have
one, be sure of keeping it for any time; although the rule of the common law is the very reverse of this, and reqmres every corporation to
be named. of some particular place, evidently with a view to this subject of jurisdiction. 10 Co. 123.
Nothing can be -more irresistible, than the conclusion to be drawn
from these premises, that a plea tQ a suit brought against a corporation created; established, and transacting all its business in South
Carolina, with its president, directors,, and all its constihitional organs
there,-that one or two individual stockholders reside in a neighbouiing

JA.NUARY
Louisville

TERM, 1844.

Rail-road Company v.

Letson.

state, and so that the body is exempt from suit in the forum domwiii,
is frivolous and impertinent. (See the analogy of commercial partnership, with its house in enemy's country, and one or two members
residing in neutral territory, the Antonia Joanna, 1 Wheat. 159.) It
is a legal absurdity, if there ever was one. A plea that an abbot or
prior was an alien n6 was never good, for the reason that he w .
c iter mortaus, as a monk professed in his natural capacity, and in
his corporate character he was a subject of the crown of winch his
land was held.
But then, it seems,'however cogent, and indeed conclusive, all this
reasoning may be, it is too late to urge it. The law has been long
settled in this court, that the federal courts will look beyond the charter to see whether the individual members are citizens who have a
right, under the Constitution of the United States, to. sue in those
courts; and while I adnit and deplore what I consider a deviation
from clear principles, I do not desire any judicial innovation on arule
so well established, however wrong in itself But what I confidently
expect of the court is, that it will push this perverse doctrine not a
step beyond the adjudged cases--quod contrarationemiurtsreceptur
est, non estproducendum ad consequentias, but, on the contrary, lo6king at the immense inconveniences likely to result from it, will rather
narrow.it down once more to what it originally was, more especially
as the great consideration which moved the judges who decided the
first and leading case on the subjectwas, that unless they were permitted to look'beyond the charter there would be a total-failure of
justice.m the federal courts, as to all the rights and responsibilities
of corporations; for it is quite manifest that if the three propositions
advanced by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error, as legitimate corollanes from the decided cases, be recogmsed as the law of this court,
there will soon be an end of all federal jurisdiction in this most important class of cases,
I have said that the court, in weighing the considerations of expediency connected with this subject, will be acting in the very
spirit of its decision in the leading case. ir regard to it. This was
the Bank of the United States v. Deveaux, 5 Cranch, 61. (So, Lexington Manufacturing ,Company v. Dorr, 2-Lit. 256, where justice requires it, -the court will look into the evidence of the individual inembers, &c.) The great argument of the counsel-of the bank there- was,
that a corporation not being a citizen of a state, undei the words of
the Constitution, if the court did not look beyond the charter to the

524

SUPREIME COURT.
Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

individuals that composed the company, there would be a denial of
justice m a great number of the most important cases.
This argument was what principally led the court to the conclusion which they adopted. I confess I do not see the alleged necessity of departing at all from the principle which considers a corporation a legal unit and an ideal person. And, accordingly, the court
afterwards, in the case of the Bank of the United States v. The Planters' Bank of Georgia, 9 Wheat. 962, ruled that the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court over a corporation in Georgia was not ousted by
the fact that one of its stockholders was the state itself. In other
words, they ruled, Chief Justice Marshall expressly declares, that the
state qua stockholder in a private company laid down its sovereignty,
and became a citizen, and might be sued as such. But if a state,
which is a corporation, and the greatest of all, can be sued as being,
under certain circumstances, a citizen in legal contemplation, why
should not any other corporation be considered, for the furtherance
of a plain constitutional remedy, as a citizen for judicial purposes.
But conceding that the court was right in this very narrow construction of a great remedial provision in the Constitution, and that
it was necessary to look beyond the charter of an incorporated company to give it jurisdiction, the next, and not.less inpo.tant, question
was, how far was it necessary or proper to look? Certainly no further than to those who had the control of all the legal interests and
rights of the company-to its government, ifs trustees, representatives,
This would.have been agreeable to all the
and administrators.
analogies of the law which seldom inquires into secondary responsibilities and mere equities. At any rate, the most scrupulous adherence to the letter of the Constitution could ndt require more than an
averment that the majority of an incorporated company were citizens
of-a different statel for that majority wills and acts for the whole-is,
indeed, n legal contemplation, the whole, to all judicial intents and
purposes whatsoever.
Now this leading case of the Bank v. Deyeaux settles nothing on
this point. There is no intimation in it 9f any such legal solecism
as that all tle members of a corporation, without exception, should
be of the same state, whether as defendants or plaintiffs. The court
strained a point, according to their own view of the subject, to prevent a demal of justice in that case, but that they did not senously
contemplate pushing the matter-'further than was necessary for that
purpose, is, I think, plain, from their recoilfig from 'the application

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

525

Loniaville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

of the principle in the Bank of the United States v. The Planters'
Bank of Georgia. The attention of the court is particularly called
to this latter decision under this head, as it -will be under a subsequent one.
All that they aimed at was to do what the ecclesiastical courts are
said to do ia England. These tribunals have no power to summon
a corporation aggregate to answer before them. 1 Kyd, 277, Skin.
*27, 28. Tjbey therefore cite the members (that is, the curators,
directors, or constitutional organs, who are authorized and bound to
appear for the body they represent,) of such companies by their
proper names, with the addition of the names of their corporate capacity, but they proceed against them in the latter. character, for those
courts have no other means- qf citing them. This is instead of
the distrngasat common law, which is the only means of compelling
an appearance in the civil courts; so that if a corporation have no
lands or g9ods, there is no way to make it appear. In the court
Christian, however, though the official or representative-members are
cited by their proper names, it is onlly m their political capacity.
Skin. 27, 28, 1 Kyd, 227.
But although the case of the Bank v. Deveaux did not go beyond
this practice of the ecclesiastical courts, and with a view to jurisdiction, to bring the parties into court, said only that it would look to
the character of the members, without saying what members, and so,
in legal contemplation, confined their views to the members representing the corporation, and capable of appearing for it; yet I admit.
that other cases, especially. the recent case of the Bank of Vicksburg
v. Slocomb, 14 Peters, did go-a step further.
That case decides that where a corporation sues, if any of its memmers reside m the state of the defendant, or vice versa, the court has
no junsdiction.
I.admit that this case, if it is to be supported as law settles the
doctrine, so far as to treat corporations precisely as if they were private societies or partnerships,. but it goes. not one step further, even
this, as I have attempted to show, is clearly against all principle.
But be it so. I have no interest in disputing it for the purposes of
this case. This I have already established.
Suppose, as I argued abqve, this rail-road company to be a private
partnership, and the controversy is at an end, for beyond all doubt
the.act of 1839 would cure any defect in the process or pleadings in
the case.

526

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville Rail-road Comipany v. Letso

All that the court, in Slocomb's case, ruled, was that the act of
1839 was not to be construed as enabling the parties, by their own
contrivance, to give jurisdiction to the court, by severing a joint suit,
and omitting some of the necessary parties to it, over whom the federal courts would have had no jurisdiction under the Constitution.
Nothing could be clearer under the decision m Curtis v. Strawbridge, 3 Cranch, 267, than thatif some of the members of a companyor
partnership, plaintifif, were citizens of the same state with the defendant, this case could not be within the act of 1839, because it was
not within the provision of the Constitution itself. The act of 1839
was not to be made unconstitutional by construction. Undoubtedly
not; but cessante ratione, cessat lex, and there is not a word or a
hint, that in a case clearly within the Constitution, where, namely,
the plaintiff is of a different state from all the defendants, and where,
consequently, if he could sever hi action, he might. beyond all
doubt, sue them all in the federal courts, even at common law-he
cannot, under the act of 1839, make that very severance and enjoy
his constitutional privilege. I say there is not one word to that effect,
and 'tWere most strange if there were.; for I ask again, if the act of
1839 be not made for that very case, for what case was it made P or
what'ls it good for
The result of the whole now is, exactly to fulfil the provision of
the Constitution in this particular, and to enable every citizen of the
United States, who has a claim or complaint against citizens of other
states, to assert his privilege under that instrument, whether the
ground of action be joint or several. It is a statutable severance of
the joint-it is a statutable ratification of the judgment of this court,
in Gracie v. Palmer, as to a voluntary appearance in a several suit.
This, and no more than this, is what we claim, and what the Circuit Court has adjudged we have a right to claim under the law. It
is unquestionably our right. under the Constitution, and we ask only
for that right, and unless the statutes passed to carry it into effect, and
therefore to be read in par materna with it, be mutilated by a subtle
and unauthorized construction, the remedy is precisely co-extensive
with the right, neither more nor less.
Since the act of 1839, which was intended to complete and perfect the system established by that of 1789, this case does not rest on
the latter act alone. It might, therefore, be safely conceded, that on
a strict andsubtle construction, it does not fall within that statute.
But in truth, there is no ground for the objection founded on a

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

527

Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

mere literal interpretation of that statute. The argument proves too
much, and so provesnothing. It would exclude all joint suits whatever from the jurisdiction of the federal courts. The words expressly
are- c between a citizen (not citizens) of the state in which the suit
is brought and a citizen (not citizens) of another state," (not other
states,) Now, on what principle, can it be pretended that a joint
action may be brought against citizens of another state under the
word " citizen," and yet not pgamst citizens of other states P What
is there m the word c citizen," in the statute, that admits of an obvious and most reasonable generalization in the plural form, that is not
in the word

'c

state?"(a)

Only one answer need be given to such interpretation, but it is
fatal. It is summed up in a maxim as old as the common law qum
heret sn litera leret zn cortice.
But the court, in Gracie and Palmer, seemed to feel no difficulty.
at all upon the subject, as in truth none ever existed.
2. As to the objection that the state of South Carolina is a stockholaer, much of the reasoning upon the first point is.applicable to
this. But there is no possible escape from the doctrine of the court
in the case of the Bank of the United States v. The Planters' Bank
of Georgia, 9 Wheat. Either the state qua stockholder in a private
company, as Chief Justice Marshallin that case, and thejus gentium
everywhere affirm, is to be regarded as a citizen, and so suable in
the Circuit Court, or it is still a sovereign, and not suable at all. In
the former "hypothesis, there is no difficulty under the Constitution,
in the latter, the common law obviates all objections to proceeding
without such a larty.
The rdle of pleading, as to parties (defendants) not legally responsible, is to omit them entirely in an action. This is the case even
where they are expressly and on the face of the contract parties to it;
a multo forior where they are only so consequentially and by constructi6n. Jtctus -*eezs neimn facit sniuram. The state of South
Carolina is no party, eo nomme to this covenant, but if her interest
as a stockholder makes her so. by construction of law, then, being by
the supposition not suable as a sovereignty anywhere, she must be
(a) Heir in, the singular number (even in a deed) held.by Mr. Hargrave to be
good as a word of inheritance, being ,iomen collectivm. Harg. Co. Lit. 8 b, note
45. But in a will it is indisputably so, and stitutes are construed like wills.
3 Rep. 27. Butler and Baker's case; and many other analogies might easily be

cited.

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

considered as in legal contemplation not existing at all. 4 Taunt.
468, -1 Wils. 89.. If a mramed woman in New York were one of a
partnership or voluntary association carrying on its business in
Charleston, as this rail-road company does, it would be no sort of
objection to the jurisdiction, as between Letson and the others. It
would be a ground of nonsuit to join her in a suit with persons
legally responsible. So of an infant. Their names must be omitted
altogether; and if the non-joinder were pleaded, the reply of infancy
or coverture would be conclusive. (When a man is bound tb an
abbot, and J. N. not styling him monk in the bond, nevertheless the
abbot alone shall have the action, and shall surmise that the other
obligee was his commozgi (and so incapable in law) at the time.
Bro. Abr. Dette, 191.) It would be an unheard of irregularity, nay,
a gross infringement of law, to violate this fundamental rule of pleading and practice, merely to oust the jurisdiction in such a case.
It is obvious that the very same principle applies in the case of a
sovereignty, that is, a political person not legally responsible, member
of a voluntary joint-stock company, or party to a joint contract, if as
a member it is not considered as a mere private person.
Either way the jurisdiction is clear on principle, besides being conclusively settled-by the case. in 9 Wheat.
3. The third, objection is a reductio ad absurdum of the principle
of the Bank of Vicksburg .v.
Slocomb, 14 Peters.
Where shall we stop; Not only do we look beyond the parties
corporation, to see
to the action, the constitutional organs of the first
whdther none of its members are citizens of the same state with the
plaintiffs, we are now asked to carry this process of perversion ad
nfinitum. If we find out one of, the members to be a corporation,
we are to look still further, and if it be shown that of this corporation one share has been transferred, it may be in trust, or by way of
pledge to another, then the court is not to meddle with, an action
against the first. corporation. But suppose we find that a member
of the second corporation is a third, and of that a fourth in an mfiiite series, Is this seriously put forth as the doctrine of this court, or
is it meant as a jest upon it?
The great moving cause, as I have shown, that influenced the
court in Deveaux's case, was to authorize its jurisdiction in a category of all others the most. important, and 'to prevent a failure of
justice, just as the case in Skinner shows that the courts Christian
summoned the natural person, whom they wished to hold responsible

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

4"

Louisville Rail-road Company v. Let'son.

as an artificial one, ex necessitate. - But now, it seems, tus is to be
done for e very opposite purpose, and the plainest rules of law to
be broken' tlrough, in order to do injustice and to withhold a constitutional right.
To sum up the argument, in a few words, a corporation, as such,
has no persona standi n judico in the. federal courts, where the' case
is between citizens of. one state and citizens of another; but for
advancing -the remedy and doing justice, and for no'other purpose,
the court will look beyond the charter to the individual members.
In other respects, and to other purposes, the existence of the corporationais not noticed. quoad hoo in those courts.
On 'the whole, the case appears to me a very clear one. The
miscbiefs prevented by the judgment below are of the most serious
character; and not only does no legal or constitutional difficulty stand
in the way, 'but every consideration of right and justice, and the very
principle of the leading case of the Bank v. Deveaux, imperatively
require that the court should maintain the jurisdiction.
azyck in reply, for the plaintiffs in error.
In addition to the argument formerly submittqd, (to which the
attention of the-court is agai, solicited,) and by way of reply to the
views put forward by the two leamed counsel for the defendant in
error, it is proposed now to offer some further remarks in support-of
the objections to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. Before noticing in detail the particular points made by.the learned counsel on the
other side, it may be well, as the clearestand most convenient method
of proceeding, t? premise one or two general observations, which
will perhapsbe found. to cover them all.
In actions by or against corpotations in the Circuit Courts of the
United States, m which the jurisdictiQn depends on the characte. of
the parties, in other words, where there, is no other ground of jurisdiction than that the suit is one " to which an alien is a party," or
that it is c between a citizen of the state in which the suit is brought,
and a citizen, of, another state," the court looks beyond the corpora-tion to. the i1dividuals of which it is composed, for the-purpose of
ascertaining whether they have. the requisite character, and- for no
other purpose. That being ascertained, the veil of the corporatibn
is again thrown over the individuals, and in all other respects--in all
matters of procedure-in all things concerning rights, obligations
and remedies, the Circuit Court like the ordinary tribunajs of geneVoL. II.-67

2Y

530

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

ral jurisdiction, loses sight of the individuals, ad sees nothing but
the legal entity, the corporation. The questions of jurisdiction, and
of procedure, are totally distinct from, and independent of each other,
and there can be no just reasoning from one to the other.
Again-the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States
is limited by their fumdamental law, to certain specified descriptions
of cases only, and even the consent of parties cannQt give them jurisdiction of cases not falling within one or other of the specified descnptions.
A court of general and unlimited jurisdiction, may be unable to
take cognisance of a cause, from the want of power to bring the
parties before it. For example, a court of unlimited jurisdiction in
South Carolina may be unable to take cognisance of a clain against
a resident of New York, not found in South Carolina, and having no
property there, from the want of means to bring the defendant before
the court. So a court of limited jurisdiction, having jurisdiction
only of a certain class of cases, may be unable to take cognisance of
a case belonging to the prescribed class, from the want-of power to
bring the parties before it. This is sometimes called want of jurisdiction, but it is a very different thing from the inability of a court
having jurisdiction only of a certain class of cases, to take cognisance
of a case not within the prescribed class. The one is a want of
jurisdiction of the party only, which may be removed by the qonsnt
or appearance of the party, the other is-a want of jurisdiction of the
cause, which cannot be removed by consent of parties. The case
of Gracie v. Palmer, 8 Whedt. 690, so often referred to by the counsel for the defendants in error, furmshes an illustration of this distinction.
That was an action brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States in Pennsylvania, by aliens against citizens of New York.
Being a suit to which -an alien was a party," it was by the express
terms of the 11th sectiQn of the Judiciary act of 1789., withit the
jurisdiction of the court. But though the cause was within the
jurisdiction of the tourt, the defendants were not subject to its jurisdiction, because. they were not inhabitants of the district of Pennsylvania, nor were they found in that district to be served with process,
and one of the provisoes of the 11th section-of the act of 178,9 is, that
"no civil suit shall be brought before a Circuit or District Court,
against an inhabitant of the United States, by any original process,
in any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant, or in whch

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Louisville

531

Rail-road Company v. Letson.

he shall be found at the time of serving the writ." The defendants,
however, voluntarily appeared, and afterwards objected to the junsdiction of the court, because it did not appear on the record that they
were inhabitants of, or found in Pennsylvania at the time of serving
the writ But Clef Justice Marshall, delivering the judgment of
this court, said, cthe uniform construction of the clause referfed to,
had been that it was not necessary to aver on the record that the
defendant was an inhabitant of the district or found therein. It was
sufficient if the court appeared to have jurisdiction by the citizenship
or alienage of the parties. The exemption from arrest in a district
of which the defendant was not an inhabitant, or was not found at
the time of serving the process, was the privilege of the defendant,
which he might waive by a voluntary appearance. If process was
returned by the marshal, as served upon him within the district, it
was sufficient, and where the defendant voluntarily appeared in the
court below, without talng the exception, it was an admission of
the service, and a waiver of any further inquiry into the matter."
That the cause shojild be within the jurisaiction of the court, that
is to say, that it should belong to one of those classes of cases of
which alone the court is authorized to take cognisance, is indispensable that the parties should be before the court is matter of
procedure and of the service of process. If the defendant is not an
inhabitant of, or found witlun the district, he cannot be brought before
the court by any compulsory process, but if he voluntarily appears,
he is before the court, and then the court having jurisdiction of the
cause, and having the parties before it, it would be strange if it
declined to' take cognisance of the matter, for no other reason, than
that if the defendant had not voluntarily appeared, he could not have
been compelled to appear.
If the principles above stated be kept steadilyin view, it is believed,
that all the points raised by the learned counsel in answer to the argument against the jurisdiction of the court in this case, will vanish,
one after another, as they are approached.
In the first place it is said, that, according to all the authorities, it
is sufficient that all the,members of the corporation sued; are citizens
of some other state than that of which the plaintiff is a citizen. But
there is no authority which says, that where the jurisdiction dependson the citizenship of the parties, a citizen of one state may bring an
action in the Circuit Court in another state, against a- citizen of that
state, and a citizen of a third state. If it had ever been so decided,

532

SUPREME COURT.Louisville

Rail-roa-d Company v. Letson.

the decision would be utterly inconsistent with the highest authority,
the Judiciary act itself, which expressly-limits the jurisdiction to cases
between'citizensof the state in which the suit is brought, and citizens
of another state, and thd court would rather conform to the plain language and meaning of the act, than to a judicial decision or-dibtum
clearly conflicting with it.
But it is mow, for 'the first'time suggested, that in an action by or
against a corporation, the citizenship of the governing members only
need be inquired into, or, in other words, that an action by or
against a corporation, is an action by or Against the official members
alone.
In Curtis v. Strawbridge, 3 Cranch, 267, it was said that each
distinct interest must be represented- by persons, all of -whom must
be capable of suing, or liable to be sued in the federal courts.
The word " represented," used by the court in that case, is seized
upon by-the counsel, and it is said, the governing members of a corporation represent the interests of the corporation, therefore, they are
the real parties; and it is sufficient, if they have the requisite citizenship, to give the court jurisdiction. But in order to understand the
true meaning of the -court, we must advert to the fact that the -suit
was on the equity- side of the court, where there may be several
defendants having distinct interests from each other, a-ad where it
may happen that a complete dicree may be made between some of
the parties without affecting the interests of others.
Each 'party having an interest, is said to represent that interest.
If several persons have-the same interest, they jointly represent that
interest, and if they all have the requisite citizenship, and a complete
decree can be made as against them, without affecting other defendants having a different interest, notwithstanding such other defendants, or some of them, have not the requisite citizenship, the court
will proceed to adjudicate between the complainant and the defendants,- who have the requisite citizenship. Carneal v. Banks,
10 Wheat. 181.
In an action by or against a corporation, the corporate name represents the rights and interests of the corporation, that is to say, the
corporate rights, and interests of the members of the corporation, in
the subject-matter of the suit-not the governing members only, but
all the members, for though the governing members ordinarily
manage the business of the corporation, the corporate rights and
interests belong to all the members,,not according to their official

JAN3ARY

TERM,

L8-4.

533

Louisville RaLilroad. Company v. Letson.

rank, but in proportion to their respective shares of interest in the
corporation.
It is sud that the governing members have the right to sue, and
may be compelled to plead, and are therefore the real plaintiffs or
defendants. But that a private member can neither sue nor-prevent
a suit, nor can his admissions be given in evidence against the company.
It is truethat a single private member-cannot suenor-prevent a
suit, nor could one only of the governing, members, but~the private
members, acting together in their corporate capacity, might control
the action of the official members, and cause a suit to be.brought or
defended. It would seem from the principle-of the case of the King
v. The Inhabitants -of Hardwicke, 11 East, 379, that the admissions
of a private member might be given rn-evidence against, the company;
for, having an interest inthe suit, h6-could not be made a witness.
But if the admissions of a private member could -not be given in
evidence, so'neithercould the admisons of a single director; For
'the acts or declarations of-a single director, or of any.one'not autho±.ized to act alone for the company, are not'the acts or declarations of
the company, and- the interest of a single director, or even. of the
president, may-be less than-that of a-pnvatd stockholder.
Again-it is said that a private member cannot be summoned -or
distrained to answer to a demand against 'a corporation, The rule
is; that for a public concern. the sheriff nannot distrain any individual
member. 2 Bac. Ab. E. 2, note.;- Thursfield v. Jones, Skiiner, 27.
If is true that a summons is served upon the ehief'officer -of the company, but it is, a'summons of the company, not of the chief officer,
who is only the. organ through whom it as communicated to the company, If upon this summons the corporation does not appear, there
is no-further process either against the-person or property of the head
of the corporation, any mote than against the person or- property of
any private member; but the process to compel the corporation to
appear is -a distrrngas against the corporate property.
But. the manner of requiring the, appe-rance of a corporation is
mere matfer of procedure,. and. even if it were allowable to reason
from matter of procedure to the question of jurisdiction, so that orjIY
the individual upon whom process is served should be regarded as
the real defen'dant, the summons which is served upon the head of
the corporation. is not the original - process, but a mere preliminary
notice which may always be dispensec'with. The real process is
2Y2

SUPREME COURT.

534
Louisville

Rail-road Company v. Letson.

the distringas,which is not served upon the head or governing members of the corporation, but is levied upon its property. And if the
summons were the original process, that is served upon the head of
the corporation only, and not upon all the governing members, and
by this rule the president would be the only defendant, and it would
be sufficient if he had the requisite citizenslup.
If in an action against a corporation, no member can be regarded
no process to compel him to
as a defendant, against whom there 'is
appear, then no member, either official or private, can be a defendant, for there is absolutely no process by which any one of them can
be compelled to appear; the only process is against the property of
the corporation, wich belongs not to the official members -only, but
to all the members in,their corporate capacity.
It is not pretended that any individual member of a corporation
has a right to be heard as a party objecting to the jurisdiction, nor
does the objection in this case come from any indi7idual member;
it comes from the corporation, that is, from all the members in their
corporate capacity. It is not, that Baring and Rutherford object, that
being citizens of North Carolina, they cannot be sued in South Carolina, but. the corporation objects that the action being against the
corporation, and Baring and. Rutherford b~ing members of the
corporation, it is an action against them, as well as against the
other members, and is therefore not a suit between cc citizens of
the state in which the suit is brought, and a citizen of another
state."
A corporation in South Carolina cannot be sued in North Carolina,
by proceeding against a private member, or any member domiciled
there, neither can it be sued in South Carolina, by proceeding against
any member domiciled there. But it is no solecism, that the corporation cannot be sued in the Circuit Court, because A., one of the
members, is a citizen of North Carolina, and yet that A, cannot be
sued anywhere for the same cause.
If one of the members, or at all events if one of the directors were
a citizen of New York, it is conceded that the corporation could not
be sued in the Circuit Court in South Carolina, nor could the New
York member or director be sued in any court in, New York for the
same cause, yet where is the solecism in this? It is simply that the
Circuit Court is a court of limited jurisdiction, and that the case is
not within -the jurisdiction, If the action'were brought in a court
of general jurisdiction, it would be no objection that some, or even

JANUARY
L-oulsvill0

TERM, 1844.

535

Rail-road Company v. Letson.

all of the members of thi corporation-Were citizens of North Carolina or New York.
That the plaintiff cannot sue the corporation ii the Circuit Court,
because some of the members of the corporation*are citizens of North
Carolina, is no more than happens to every plaintiff whose case is
not within the jurisdiction of that court; justice is not'therefore
denied him, it is only necessary for him to seek it m another tribunal.
The relation of the governing members of a corporation to the private members, is rather that of agents than of trustees. If they weie
trustees, suits by and against the corporation ought to be"brought in
their proper names, and not in the corporate name which represents
all the members m their corporate character, and not the governingmembers alone.
It does not follow, that because in matters of procedure a particular member of a corporation is not noticed as a party, therefore he
shall not be noticed m the matter of jurisdiction. In matters of procedure, a particular director is no more noticed as a party to th,
record than a particfular private member; why then should the citizenship of a director determine the jurisdiction any more- than that
of a private member?
That the particular members of a corporation have never been
noticed as parties, except to defeat the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court is not.true. In the Bank of the United States v.-Deveaux they
were noticed for the purpose of sustaimng the jurisdiction, which
could not otherwise have been support..
The residence of a corporation is not determined by the residence
of its members, nor by that of the president and directors. A corporation created by a law of South Carolina, and for an object to be
pursued m South Carolina, must have its location there, and nowhere
else. Its artificial being, 'as a creature of the law of South Carolina,
can only exist where that law is in forae. The individual members,
or even"the president and directors, might be anywhere else, but the
body corporate would still be there. It 'is by no means clear that a
corporation is held to reside where its principal office is. In the case
of the Bank of the United StAtes v. MVlcKdnzie, 2 Brock. 393, in which
it was contended that the bank residedin Philadelphia, and therefore
was not affected by the statute-of limitations of Virginia, Chief Justice
Marshall says, " the counsel for the plaintiff, contends that the corporation resides in Philadelphia. How is this to be sustained? The"
corporate body consists of all the stockholders,'and acts by-a name

536

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville Rail-road

Company v. Letson.

c6pr~eending -all the stockholders. These stockholders reside all
over the United, States, but being m their corporate capacity, in wlch
alone they act, a mere legal entity, mvisible, inaudible,. incorporeal,
they act by agents. Itmay-weIlbe doubted, and is doubted, whether
the residence of those agents canfix the residence of the corporation,"
and"the statute of limitations prevailed against the bank. Perhaps
the true view of the matter is, that the corporate existence of the Bank
of the UnitedStates, being a law of le United States, the corporation
must be held to be wherever that law prevails. But however this
may be, there isa wide difference between residence and citizenship.
A corporation may have a residence, but, as this court has solemnly
decided, itecannot be a citizen.
The supposed analogy between a corporation and a state is rather
fanciful than real. When a state is called a corporation, or a corporation a state, it is a mere figure of speech. They are as different
from each other as the creator and the thing created- A state is the
lawmakeri above and independent of the law. A corporation is a
creature of the law, a modified association of individuals, and, like
other associations of-individuals, subjqctto the law.
Nor is it invariably true, that in pdlitical societies public acts are
referred to the persons who have the administration of the government. In England the public property, and other public rights, are
vested in the kng,.and suits concerning them are brought in his name,
but m these states the public .property and rights are vested in the
commonwealth, and not in any mdividual,.and suits concerning them
are brought in the name of the commonwealth, and not referred to
any individual more than another as the plaintiff. The public business is necessarily done by agents and these agents, ike other agents,
are trustees as to the powers with which they are'invested, but the
acts which they do within the limits of their-powers arereferred to the
commonwealth, and not to them, as individiials,
It is true that before the 11th amendment of the Constitution, the
.states were liable tobe sued, but not as corporations. They were
liable to be sued as ,states, because by the Constitution, as it stood
before the l1th amendment, the.judicial power extended to controversies " between a state, and citizens of another state, and between a
state and foreign states, citizens or subjects." Without this prowsion of the Constitution, it would surely never have been pretended,
that because the individuals ha-ving the administration of the state
government were citizens of Ihe state, or because the'state was coin-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

537T

Louisville Rail-road Com.pany v. letson.

posed of its citizens, a suit between two states, or between a state and
a citizen of another state, was a suit between citizens of different
states, and therefore within the jurisdiction of the federal judiciary.
The case of London and Wood, 12 Mod. 669, does not show thatonly the official members of a corporation will be noticed as parties.
The judgment was reversed, because the mayor was both plaintiff and
judge. Tle strong good sense of the common law would not permit substantial justice to be sacrificed to a legal fiction, by-suffering
the same person to be plaintiff in one capacity, and judge m'another.
True, it was said the objection would not -have prevailed if one of
the aldermen had been plaintiff,-not'because he would not have
been noticed as a member of the corporation, but because he would
not have been both plaintiff and judge. Hatsell, Baron, said-" if
one of the aldermen should bring an action before the mayor and
aldermen, that may be a good judgment, because it may be a court
of mayor and aldermen without him, and the plaintiff would hot be
an essential part of the court." But the mayor is an essential part of
the court. No doubt if each individual of the commonalty had been
an essential part of the court, he would have been noticed as a party.
As to suits in the name of the people of the state being tried before a'
judge who is one of the people, that is a matter of unavoidable ne,
cessity, and besides, the judge has no more interest in the suit than
anybody else, not more than even the defendant himself.
It is true that a corporation acts by the agency of natural persons4
but no principle is more familiar than that the acts of an agent, acting
within the. limits of his agency, are referred to the principal, and regarded as the acts of the principal only, and not of the agent. A corporation sues and defends suits by-attorney. He is the natural person by whom the personal acts of suing and defending are done, yet
nobody ever imagined that he is the party to the suit. The official
members are concerned in the suit ifi their corporate character as well
as the private members, and it is as much confounding the distinction
between the natural and corporate character, tQ call the official members parties to the suit, as it is to call the private members parties.
To say that the corporate name represents'the private members notas persons, but as a faculty, and the official members alone as individuals or persons, is an- incomprehensible refinement-very little
better, m fact, than a mere jargon of words without meaning. The
truth of the-matter is well expressed by Chief Justice Marshall in the
Bank of the United States v. McKenzie, 2 Brock. 393.
VOL. H.-68

08

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville Railroad Company v. Letson.

"The president and directors at Philadelphia are neither the nominal nor real plaintiffs. The nominal plaintiffs are the president, directors, and company, the real plaintiffs are all the stockholders:
the corporate body consists of all the stockholders, and acts by a
name comprehending all the stockholders."
But in point of fact, this action is brought against all the mem ers
of the corporation in, their corporate charactero and not against the
official members only. The corporation is sued as one whose members are citizens of South Carolina. If the official members only are
to be regarded as parties, why was it not sued as a corporation whose
president and directors are citizens of South Carolina?
It seems to be admitted,'that though by the Constitution the judicial power of theI United .States extends to cases between citizens
of different states, the Judiciary act confers junsdiction on the Circuit
Courts only, as between citizens of the state where the suit is brought,
and citizens of another state. Butit is said that since the act of 1839,
when oi of two parties to a joint contract is sued, he cannot plead
the non-joinder of the other party who resides in another state, and is
not found in the.district where thesuit is brought. This is because
the act of 1839 authorizes the plaintiff to sue each of the parties separately, as if the contract Wvere-joint and several. But the suit must
still be "between a citizen of 'the.state in winch the suit is brought,
and a citizen of another state." And therefore a citizen of New
York, having two joint debtors, one a citizen of Pennsylvania, and
'the other aacitizen of Virginia, could not sue either of them in the.
Circuit Court in New Jersey, and even the voluntary appearance of
the defendant would not give the court jurisdiction of the case. And
if they were found inriPennsylWama, and sued jointly in the 'Circuit
.Court there, they might plead to the jurisdiction that the case was
not one between citizens of the state in which the suit was brought,
and a citizen of another state, nor would the voluntary appearance
of the citizen of Virgima make it such a case, so as to bring it within
the jurisdiction.
The objection in this case is not that some of the defendants' are
sued in a districtin which they were not found, but that a suit is
.brought in the Circuit Court in ..,uth Carolina by a citizen of New
York, against citizens of South Carolina, and citizens of North Carolina, "for a suit against a corporation is a suit against al the members in their corporate character. If Baring and Rutherford bad
happened to be in So .th Carolina when the suit was commenced,

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

539

Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

still being citizens of North Carolina, it would not be a suit "between citizens of the state m .w~hch the suit is brought, and a citizen
of another state." And the voluntary appearance and consent of
Baring and Rutherford, and every other member of the corporation,
each in his natural character, and of all the members collectively m
their corporate character, would not remove the objection.
All the members of the corporation may be said, in a certain ideal
and fictitious sense, to be residents of South Carolina in their corporate character, because the corporation of which they are members
resides there. But the corporation is not a citizen, and therefore they
are not citizens of South Carolina in their corporate character. By.
becoming members of the corporation, they have subjected themselves
to be sued in their corporate character in any court of general jurisdiction in South Carolina, but they could not, either by a general or
particular consent, give jurisdiction to the Circuit Court, of a cause
of which it is not authorized by its fundamental law to take cogmsance.
Again, it is said that if the company were a co-partnership, having
its office and carrying on, business in South Carolina, and Baring and
Rutherford, two of the partners, residing in North Carolina, their appearance would be dispensed with, and-this position is founded on
the act of 1839. Since that act it is conceded that if they were
partners in an incorporated company, they might have been omitted
altogether, and then all the defendants being citizens 6f South Carolina, the jurisdiction would be clear. But if-they were included in
the action, and described in the writ and declaration as citizens of
North Carolina, so that it appeared on the record that the suit was
not one "between citizens of the state in which the suit-was brought,
and a citizen of another state," it is very difficult to conceive how
the jurisdiction could be" sustained. Or. if they were described as
citizens of South Carolina,-and voluntarily appeared and pleaded, not
that they were not found in the district of South Carolina, which is
mere matter of procedure, and is waived by the appearance, but that
they were citizens of North Carolina, so that the case was not between citizens of South Carolina and a citizen of New York, whicfi
is matter of jurisdiction, there can be no doubt that as to them the
plea must have prevailed. Though, perhaps. -the court might theni
have proceeded against the other defendants as. if they had never
been joined. But however this maybe in the case of a mere partnership, it is wholly out of the question in the case of a corporation.

540

SUPREME

COURT.

Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

*Who ever yet heard of an action or a judgment against a part only of
the members of a corporation on a contract of the corporation ?
Surely if any thing is settled beyond all controversy, it is that an
individual member of a corporation, or any number of members less
than thevhole united under the corporate name, and in the corporate
character, cannot be sued on a contract of the corporation. That
indeed is the very thing which constitutes the chlef inducement to
the formation of incorporated companies.
There could be no action in this contract, but against the corporation, by the corporate name,, which includes all the members in their
corporate character and connection-those who are citizens of North
Carolina, as well as those who are citizens of Soxith Carolina, nor
could there be any judgment which -would not include the N6rth
Carolina members with those in South Carolina. An action against
a corporation is an action against all the members of the corporation,
in the corporate name and character, which necessarily imply the
corporate union and association of all the members, and exclude the
idea of any separate identity or liability, with reference to the subject
matter. of the suit.
But it is said that Baring and Rutherford, considered as partners,
were dormant partners, and that dormant partners, as defendants, are
not only not necessary parties, bu* are not- allowed to become parties to the record, where they were not so to the contract, and thus to
defeat by surprise (which might be a fraud) a plaintiff who -bad
never heard of them.
They were no more dormant partners than any other stockholders,
not more even than the directors. There is nothing in the name of
the corporation to indicate, who are the, president and directors, any
more than who are the private members, and it is almost as easy in
point of fact, for a stranger to ascertain who. are the private members
as who are the official members. The corporation is sued, as it must
be, by the corporate name, and no individual member can come in and
say, I ought to be included in the-action, and am not, nor can the whole
body say, there is a member who ought to be and is not included in
the action. Whoever is a member is included under the corporate
name, and whoever is not included under the corporate name, is-not
a -member. lie Mautort v. Sanders, I- Barn. and Adol. 398, is no
more than *jis..
Agair-it issaid that if Baring ajid Rutherford appeared volntarily, it is certain the court would.have jurisdiction, for so-says'the act

541

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

of 1839. But the act of 1839 says no suclrth-ng)" If d666 not
enlarge the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts; so as to.make it extend
to all suits between citizens of-different states, no matter where
brought, provided the -defendants can be found in the district, or
voluntarily appear. It leaves the matter of jurisdiction depending
on the citizenship of the parties, confined as it vas by the act of
1789, tb cases " between citizens of the state in which the 'suit is
brought, and citizens of other states," and only provides that.when
the case is within the jurisdiction, that is, when it is a case .- between
citizens of the state in which the suit is brought, and citizens of another state," if the defendants voluntarily appear,-though not mhabitants of, or found in the district, the court may proceed to adjudicate
the cause, or if some of them are found in the dishict, or voluntarily
appear, and others are not.found, and do not appear, th6se who are
found, or do appear, may be proceeded against without prejudice to
the others. For example, the Circuit Court in New York would
have jurisdiction of a suit brought by a citizen of New York,-against
several defendants citizens of South Carolina -and North Carolina, because it would be a case "'between a citizen of the state in which
the suit was brought, and citizens of other states," but unless -the defendants were found in New York, or voluntarily appeared, they
could not be proceeded against. Since the act -of-1839, if either of
them was found in New York, or voluntarily appeared, he might be
proceeded against alone, and could not plead the non-joinder of the
others. This is the effect of the judicial exposition given to the proviso of the 11th section of the act of 1789, in Gracie'and Palmer,
8 Wheat. 690, and of the act of 1839.
But the Circuit Court in New Jersey would not have jurisdiction
of a suit between the same parties, because neither of them'being a
citizen of New Jersey, it would not be a -case- " between a citizen
of the state in which the suit was brought, and citizens of other
states," and even if the defendants were found in New Jersey, or
voluntarily appeared, they could not be proceeded against; ff to use
the language of the attorney-general in this very case, wh6 ever
heard before that the voluntary appearance'of a citizen of a state
gives jurisdiction to the federal courts in a case'in-which that junsdiction depends, not on the charactet of the cause, or the state of the
pleadings, or the service of process-still less the will of an individual-but simply on -the fact of citizenship or no -itizenship, or as

2Z

-.

-

542

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

-t is commonly expressed, on the character of the parties; that is, on a
distinct and ascerla.:i.-- civil status in the parties."
Now the civil status on which the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
depends is, that the parties on one side should be citizens of the state
in which the suit is brought, and those on the other side, citizens of
one or more of the other states, and- as citizens of North Carolina
are and must be included as defendants in this action with citizens
of South Carolina, under the corporate name, neither the plaintiff
nor defendants are citizens of the state in which the. suit is brought,
and therefore the parties have not the civil status necessary to give the
court, jurisdiction, and the want of this necessary status cannot be
supplied by consent.
Again-it is said that corporations aggregate in this country are
without the capacity of contracting, except through guardians, trustees, or curators, and that in this respect they are like minors and lunatics; yet nothing is more certain than that in all the corporations with
which we are acquainted in this country, the ultimate power of making
by-laws for the government of' the, corporation, and of -otherwise
controlling the action of the official members, resides in the body of
the members, and .is frequently exercised by them, but who ever
heard of a minor, or a lunatic, prescribing rules for the government
of his guardian-or curator P
But it is affirmed that in a corporation all the parts are not the
whole. Now nothing is more true than that a corporation aggregate,
:onsisting of a given number of individuals, is in legal contemplation, for all purposes of administration, rights, obligations, and procedure, a different thing from the aggregate of the individuals composing it. The legal entity,the corporation, is a different thing from
zie natural persons, the members, but it is nevertheless true, that the
corporation includes all the members, and that any one of them is
Just as much a part of the cogoration as any other. It is not demed
'hat in the language of Savigny, cited by the learned counsel, cca
;orporaton consists of the whole formed of its members," but it is
not always true that the will of a bare numerical majority of the members is the will of the corporation, and has the disposal of, and is invested with all the rights of the corporation. That depends upon
he charter. In all cases it is necessary that the concurring will of
a part of the members should constitute the will of the corporation,
;mce the concurrence of all the members would be generally imprac,icable.

JANUARY --TERM, 1844.

548

Louisville Rail-rSgd Omp'an.y v. Letson.

But admitting all -that is said on this ponit, the will.of one, or a
few, or even a majority of the members of a corporation, has nothing
to do with the domicile of the corporation. Does any body suppose
that if nme-tfiiths of the members of this corporation -vere citizens,
and residents of New York, the domicile, of the corporation would
be any less in South Carolina than if all the members were citizens
and residents of South Carolina, or that it would be any less liable
to be suedin- South Carolina in a court of general jurisdiction, or
that it could be sued in any court m NewYork.
It might be frivolous and impertinent-in a court of general- jurisdiction to plead to a suit brought against a corporation, created,
established, and transacting all its business in South Carolina, that
one or two individual stockholders reside-in a neighbourng state, and
therefore the corporation is exempt from suit in the forum domidlii.
Such a plea would be wholly inadmissible if the plaintiff had brought
his action m the state court of South Carolina, the realforum domwilii.
But it is neither frivolous nor impertinent when the action is brought
in the'Circuit Court in South Carolina, which certainly has no junsdiction of the cause, unldss- it is a suit between citizens of South
Carolina and a citizen or citizens of some other state, (the corporation itself not being a citizen of any state, and 'the jurisdiction depending on the citizenslnp of the members,) to plead that two of the
members are not citizens of- South Carolina, but. citizens of North
Carolina.
Again-it is said that in the Bank of the United States v. Deveaux,
the court looked beyond the corporation to the-individuals composing
it only for the purpose of sustaining the jurisdiction, and the Bank
of the United States v. The Planters' Bank of Georgia is invoked to
show that they will not look beyond the corporation to defeat the
jurisdiction. The truth is, that the-court looks beyond the corporation neither for the purpose of sustaining nor defeating the jurisdiction,
but simply for the purpose of ascertaiung whether the citizenship of
tue parties is such as to bring the cause-within the jurisdiction. If in
the Bank of the United States v.'Deveaux, they had found that some
of the stockholders of the Bank of the United States were citizens
of the same state.with the defendants, so that it was not a case ,,between citizens of different states," or that one of the defendants was
a citizen of some other state than Georgia, so that it was not a case
"9between citizens of the state in which the suit was brought, and

544

SUPREME COURT
Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

citizens of another state," they would certainly not have taken cogrnsances of the cause.
There is no reason to believe that the course of this court, with
respect to suits by or against corporations, wasat all influenced by the
alleged practice of the ecclesiastical courts in England, of which not
the least notice was taken in the leading case of the Bank of the
United States v. Deveaux.
The only point of resemblance is, that both look beyond the corporation to the individual members, but the ecclesiastical courts dealing
only in ecclesiastical censures and discipline, wlch would be powerless and nugatory against the corporation or its property, proceed directly against the persons of the members, who are cited by their
proper namess with the addition of their corporate style, whereas,
this court looks beyond the corporation only to ascertain whether the
citizenship of the members is such as to give it jurisdiction, and that
being ascertained, proceeds against the corporation.
The ecclesiastical courts, it i to be observed, take notiqe of and
proceed against all the members, and not the curators or directors
only, as the counsel suppose. In the case of Thursfield v. Jones,
Skinner, 27, 28, the Master- and Wardens of the Waxchandlers Co.
were the whole corporation.
It is said that at all events it is sufficient that a majority of the
members should have the requisite citizenship, for that a majority
wills and acts for the corporation, and is indeed the corporation.
But, besides that, it is not always or generally true, that the ultimate
power to will and act for a corporation, resides ,ina numerical majority of the members; even if it were true, yet there is a very clear
and obvious distinction between the majority of a body of individuals
and the whole body. If a majority of the members be indeed the
whole corporation, then it follows, as a matter of course, that the
minority are no part of the corporation. By parity of reasoning,
if the members of a mere co-partnership should agree that a majority
of the partners should control its affairs, such majority would be the
partnership, and suit might be brought against the partnership in the
Circuit Court of the United States, by a person who was a citizen
of the same state of which the minority of the co-partnership were
citizens.
It is admitted by the learned counsel that the case of the Bank of
Vicksburg v. Slocomb, 14 Peters, settles the doctrine so far as to
treat corporations precisely as if they were private partnersinps, but

JKNUARY TERM, 1844.

'545

Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.
this is only with -reference to the question of junsdiction as cepend-

ing on the citizenship of the parties.

That case is very far from

having settled that -as to the rights and obligations of the individual
members, and the mode of judicial py(--edure a corporation is to be
regarded as if it were a private parin,;sip. And it is' useless 'to
appeal to the act of 1839 to sustain that position. It isnimpossible
so to torture that act as to make it mean that a party having a
demand against a corporation, founded oni! a contract of the corporation, might sue a part of the members, and obtain judgment against
,them exclusively of the rest. In the case of a pnvat6 pai-tnmrhip
Congress might authorize the suing of a part of the members of the
firm for' a partnership obligation, because they are all individually
bound, and whether they shall be proceeded against jointly or sever
rally is mere matter of procedure. But.nothing is more certaili,
indeed-nothing has been more strenuously insisted on by the learned
counsel themIsdves, than that the members of a corporation are not
individually bound by the obligations of the corporation. How then
can Congress be supposed to have intended to enact, that in' the
courts of the United States a part of the members of a corporation
should be held bound by the contracts of the corporation, and that
judgment should be given against them on account of such 'contracts P
Surely such a Jaw, not merely regulating the procedure of the courts,
but totally changing the relative rights and obligations of 'the -parties
to a, contract, and creating new obligations and liabilities entirely
diflerent from-those which the parties intended to contract, would be
utterly inconsistent with the plainest principles of constitutional liberty
and common right. And nothing but the most unequivocal language

could induce the court to suppose that such was the intention of
Congress.
If the'defendants in error found themselves upoh-the act of 1839,
to be consistent, they ought to have entered their judgment only
against the South Carolina members. That would have been their
proper course, and it would have been something novel and original,

but they have entered their judgment against the corporation by its
corporate name, including the North Carolina members as well as
the rest.
It is said that the construction-of the act of 1789, for which we

contend, is inadmissible, because it would exclude all joint suits
whatever from the jurisdiction of the federal courts--that 'the words
are -between a citizen (not citizens) of the state in which the suit
2z 2
VOL. 11.-69

546

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville Rail.road Company v. Letson.

is brought, and a citizen (not citizens) of another state," and it is
asked very triumphantly why a plural signification should be given
to the word citizen, so as to permit joint actions to be brought, and
not to the word state, so as to embrace actions between citizens of€
several different states. There is no reason why the word state
should not be generalized by a plural construction as well as the
word citizen, and accordingly it has been freely admitted throughout the whole argument, that an action might be brought in the Circuit Court by or against citizens of several states, provided it-was
between " citizens of the state in which the suit was brought, and
citizens of other states," as it might well be. But there is a reason
so obvious, that it is surprising, and almost incredible, it should have
escaped the notice of the learned counsel, why the words "state in
which the suit is brought" should not have a plural construction,
and that is simply, that the state in which the suit is brought can be
but one.
2. As to the objection that the state of South Carolina is a stockholder, it is said that if an infant, or a married woman, a citizen pf
New York, were one of a partnership in Charleston, it would, be no
objection as between the plaintiff, a citizen of New York, and the
other partners, citizens of South Carolina, because the infant, or marned woman, not being suable at all, would be omitted, a=d the action
would be brought only against the other partners, and so the state of
South Carolina, not being suable, cannot be regarded for any purpose
as a defendant, to tbis suit, and therefore the other members of the
corporation are the only defendants. Passing over the obvious distinction, that the infant and married woman are omitted, because,
being incapable of conttacting, the contract is in fact only the contract of the other parties, and that the state is capable of contracting,
as this court has repeatedly determined. Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch,
87; New. Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164, Dartmouth College v.
Woodward, 4 Wheat. 578, Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1. There
is another and a conclusive answer to this argument.
There is no doubt that infants and married women may be members of a -corporation, and in their corporate character would be
bound with the other members by the contracts of the corporation.
It is equally certain that an action against the corporation would be
as much an action against them as against the other members, and
that their coverture or,infancy would not protect them in their corporate interests from judgment.and. its consequences. In other words.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

547

Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

though not capable of cofitracting or suable m their natural character,
as members of a corporation, in their corporate character they are
both-and the counsel cannot forget that they themselves, in this
very case, have cited the Bank of the United States v. The Planters'
Bank of Georgia, to show that a state, as a member of a corporation,
is suable in the corporate name with the other members.
3. The third objection, it is said, 'resolves itself into the question
whether Mr. Laffan is a defendant in this suit, or, in other words, a
member of the Louisville, fCincmnati, and Charleston Rail-road Company.
According to the law of corporations, Mr. Laflan is not a defendant, and so, according to the same law, no individual member of
the rail-road company is a defendant. But according to the Constitution of the United States, as interpreted by this court, with reference to the jurisdiction of the federal judiciary, either -Jaffan is a
defendant, or the.Bank of Charleston in its corporate character is a
defendant; and in either case the jurisdiction qannot be sustained.
It is said if he was a member, lie would be entitled to the same
privileges with other members, but he is incapable of doing any actwhich it requires a member of the company to do. By the law ofthe corporation he is not a member. That law regards only the Bank
of Charleston in its corporate. character as a member, and does not
see or recognse the individuals of which it is composed But this
court is not governed by that law in deciding the question of jurisdiction. With reference to that question, it regards only the individuals composing the Bank of Charleston, and considers them as joint
holders of an interest in the rail-road .company, and gi that view
Laffan is just as much'a member of the company as if he were one
of a partnership firm holding shares me-it.
It is said, though he has an interest- in the corporation sued, it is
of the same kand- as that which creditors or legatees have in the
testator's estate-, or a cestut que trust in-the trust estate. In' the case
of air executor or trustee, he alone is. the legal party-he has the
whole legal interest, as is sAid by this court in the case of the Bank
of the United States v. Deveaux. But in the case of a corporation, the
legal interest is- in the body corporate-the artificial person, which
this court for the purposes of this question regards as a common
name and description of the natural persons composing the corporation, and it is impossible to deny in any rational and real sense, that
Mr. Laffan is one of the natural persons of which the rail-road com-

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

pany is composed, though he has not, by the law of the corporation
as an individual, a right to vote in the corporation, and is not, as an
individual, liable to its burdens, because there is another drtificial
person interposed between him and the rail-road company, which
..by the law of the corporation. exercises the powers and is subject to
the burdens of a member.
It is argued that the court has jurisdiction, because all the persons
sued are citizens of South Carolina. According to the view taken
by this court in the first instance, for the purpose of maintaining the
jurisdiction, the persons sued are the natural persons who compose
the corporation, and Laffan, as has just been shown, is one of the
'natural persons composing the corporation, though he is not by the
law of corporations n his individual character a corporator. It is
true, that if the legislature of South Carolina had exempted the Bank
of Charleston from the ordinary jurisdiction, that would not have
extended to every joint stock'company in which the bank might
become a shareholder, butthat is because, in the ordinary jurisdiction,
it would be immaterial who were the members of the corporation
sued, the suit being against the corporation as a legal entity. If the
ordinary jurisdiction were expressly limited to cases against corporatons, of which all the members were subject to the jurisdiction, then,
if it appeared, by the pleadings that the Bank of Charleston was a
member of the corporation sued,,and that bank was not liable to the
jurisdiction, the court certainly would not take cognisance of the suit.
It is not true that the shares of a company may belong to an inanimate object. It may happen that some of the shares of a conmpany
may belong to nobody, as in the case of a dead man, whose estate is
unrepresented , but in such case the owners of the other shares would
be all the members of the company, and it would be no objection to
the jurisdiction that some of the shares belonged to nobody. Again,
it is said, that when shares in a corporation are held by another corporation, they belong to the government of the corporation, as trustee
for the corporate uses, but this is no more true of shares in a corporation held by another corporation than it is of any other property
held by them, they belong to the whole body and not to a part,
that is, the legal estate is in the whole body and not in the governing
members in trust for the others. It is suggested that the Bank of
Charleston would have been incompetent to make the contract on
which this action is founded, and if this could be regarded as an
action against the bank, it might have-been resisted as founded on

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

549

Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.
an illegal contract. But a corporation might be createdfor the very
purpose of doing, and would of course be competent to do what no
individual member of the corporation would be competent to dojyet
it would not-follow that the corporation had no members, or that an
action against the corporation would not be an action aganst' the
members in their corporate character.
As to this objection, it might have been sufficient to observe, that
the plaintifis in error are very far from insisting that the court shall
look into the composition of the.Bank of Charleston and the Charleston Insurance and Trust Company. They are content that those
corporations shall be considered simply as legal entities, without regard to the individuals composing them.
It is certain they are not citizens, bit they are members of the
rail-road company, and therefore this action against the company
would not be an action against citizens; if the individuals composing
those cuporations were not regarded. But this court has thought
proper, with a view to the jurisdiction of the federal judiciary-to
regard an action against a corporation as-an action, against the natural persons composing it. And if it appears that one of the'membeis
of the corporation'sued is not an individual entering directly into its
composition in his natural character, but another corporation, that is
an association of individuals entering together under a rorporate name
and in the corporate character into the'compositibn of the first corporation, they are, beyond all question, L.dividuals contributing to make
up the corporation sued, and there is no imaginable reason why they.
should not be regarded as defendants and their citizenship considered,
which would not be equally strong against regarding the immediate
individual members as defendants, and considering their citizenship.
Why should not they be seen through two corporations as well' as
through one? It is no sound objection that in pushing the analysis
beyond the first corporation to the second, you may meet with a third
and so on through many:. The object of all judicial investigation is
truth, and where it' is attainable, them-is surely nothing absurd or
ridiculous in pursuing it through every cover to the end. The search
could never prove.inferminable: it must sooner or later terminate in
disclosing some individual not having the requisite citizenship, so as
to render its further .prosecution unavailing, as in this case, or in reducing the corporation sued to its original elements, and shoiihg'
that they were all-personspossessing the necessary civil'stalus.
The whole argument for the defendant in errd, is an effort to con-

550

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville Railroad Company V. Letson.

strue the Constitution and the Judiciary act, or rather to evade their
natural sense, by means of legal subtleties and fictions. The Constitution declares that the party shall be a citizen, that is, a natural person having a domicil and a certain civil status in a state. The argumenit is-a corporation is-, a juridical or legal person," why might it
not as well be a cc legal or juridical citizen?" Let it be called so,
and it will come within the constitutional requisition.
The Judiciary act requires that the suit should be between citizens of the state in which it is brought and a citizen or citizens of
another state.. The suit is brought in South Carolina against a corporation of which some of the members are citizens of North Carolina;
the corporate name represents the corporation, which consists of all
the members, but it is said, let it be considered, ,inlegal contemplation," that the corporate name represents only the president and
directors, and that the suit is only against them, they are all citizens
of South *Carolina, and then the suit will be between citizens of the
state in which it is brought and a citizen of another state.
Again. If the members of a corporation are all citizens, 6 suit
against the corporation is a suit against citizens, but the state of South
Carolina is a stockholder in this qorporation, and two other corporations are also stockholders. It is said-' you have only to rule, that
though a state and another corporation may be stockholders in a corporation, they cannot be members, and then all the members of this
corporation will be citizens.
Surely it is not in this court that the Constitution a~d1 the law are
to.be evaded by such easy devices as these.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The jurisdiction of the court is denied in this case upon the grounds
that two members of the corporation sued are citizens of North Carolina, that the state of South Carolina is also a member, and that two
other corporations 'nSouth Carolina are members, having in them
members who are citizens of the same state with the defendant in
error.
The objection, that the state of South Carolina is a member, cannot be sustained. Cases have been. already decided by this court
which overrule it. The doctrine is, if the state be not necessarily a
defendant, though its interest may be affected by the decision, the
courts of the United States are bound to exercise jurisdiction. United
States v. Peters, 5 Cranch, 115. In the case of the Bank of the

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

551

Louisville .Rail-road Company v. Letson.

United States v. Planters' Bank of Georgia, this court ruled," that
when a government becomes a partner ina trading concern, it divests
itself, so far as it concerns thi transactions of that company, of its
sovereign character and takes that of a private citizen. Instead of
communicating to the company its privileges and its prerogatives, it
descends to a level with those with whom it associates itself, and
takes the character which belongs to its associates and to the business
which is to be transacted. Thus, many states of this Union, who
have an interest in banks, are not suable even in their own courts,
yet.they never exempt the. corporation from eing sued. The state.
of Georgia, by giving to. the bank the capacity to sue and be sued,
voluntarily strips itself of its sovereign character, so far as respects
the transactions of the- bank, and waives all the privileges of that
6haracter.'-' 9 Wheat. 907, South Carolina stands in the same
attitude in the case before us, that Georgia did in the case in 9-Wheat.
It is no objection, then,-to the jurisdiction of the court, on account of.
the averment inthe plea, that the state of.South Carolina is a member
of the Louisville, Cincinnati, and Charleston Rail-road Company.
The true principle is, that the jurisdiction of the Circuit-Courts of the
United States cannot be decreed or taken away on account of a statehaving an interest in a suit, unless the state is.a party on the record.
Osborne and the Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 852. This
must be the rule under our system, whether 'the. jurisdiction of the
court is denied on account of any interest which a state may have in
the subject-matter of the suit, or when it is alleged that jurisdiction
does not exist on acount of the character of the parties.
We will here consider that avermqnt in the plea which alleges
that the court has not jurisdiction, " because the Louisville, Cincinnati, and Charleston Rail-road Company is not a oorporation whose
members are zcitizens of South Carolina, but that some of the members of the said corporation are citizens of South Carolina, and some
of them, namely, John Rutherford and Charles Banng, are and were
at the time of commencing the said action, citizens of North Carolina."
The objection is equivalent to this proposition, that a corporation
in a state cannot'be sued in the Circuit Courts of the United States,
by a citizen of another state, unleps all the members of the corporation are citizens of the state in which the suit is brought.
The suit, in this instance, is brought by a citizen of New Yorc in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of South Carolina, which is the locality-of the corporation sued.

552

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville Rail-road Company v. L.etson.

Jurisdiction is decreed, because it is said, it is cnly given, when
"cthe suit is between a citizen of the state where the suit is brought
and a citizen of another state." And it is further said thatthepresentis
not such asuit, because two of the corporators are citizens ofathlrd state.
The point in this form has never before been under the consideration of this court. We are not aware that it ever occurred in either
of the circuits, until it was made in this case. It has not then been
directly ruled in any case. Our inquiry nowl is, What is the lawupon
the proposition raised by the plea.
Our first remark is, that the jurisdiction is not necessarily excluded
by the terms, when, " the suit is bdtween a citizen of th' state where
the suit is brought and a citizen of another state," unless the word
citizen is used in the Constitution and the laws of the United States
in a sense which necessarily excludes a corporation.
.A corporation aggregate is an artificial body of men, cQmposed of
divers constituent members -ad nstar coporis humanz, the ligaments
of which body politic, or artificial body, are the franchises and liberties thereof, which ibind and unite all its members together; and in
which the whole frame and essence of-the corporation consist. Bac.
Abr. -Cor. (A). It must of necessity have a name, for the name is, as
it werbi the very being of the constitution, the heart of their combination., without which they could not perform their corporate acts, for it
is nobody to plead and be impleaded, to take and give, until it hath
gotten a name. Bac. Abr. Cor. (C.)
Composed of persons, it may be that the members 'are citizensand if they are, though .the corporation can only.plead and be- impleaded by its name, or the name by which it may sue or be sued, if
a controversy qnses between it and a plaintiff who is a citizen of
another state, and the residence of the corporation is in the state in
which the suit is brought, is not the -suit substantially'between citizens of different states, or, in the words of the act giving to the courts
jurisdiction, "ca suit between a citizen of the state where the suit is
brought and a citizen of another state ?"
Jurisdiction, in one sense, i-I cases of corporations, exists in virtue
of the character of members, and must be maintained in the courts of
the United States, unless citizens scan exempt themselves' from their
constitutional liability to be sued "in th6se courts, by a- citizen .of
another state," by the Act, that the subject of controversy between
them has arisen upon a contract to-which the former are parties,'in
their corporate and not in their" personal character."

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

553

Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.
Constitutional rights and liabilities cannot be so taken away, or be
so avoided. If they could be,-the provision which we are hre considering could not comprdhend citizens universally, in all the relations of trade, but only those citizens in such. relations of busifiess as
may arise from their individual or partnership transactions.
Let it then be admitted, for the purposes of this branch of theargament- that jurisdiction attaches in cases of corporations, in consequence of the citizenship -oftheir members, and'-tbat foreign corporations may sue when the members are hliens-does it necessarily follow, because- the citizenshlp and residence of the members giVe'junsdiction in a suit at the instance of a plaintiff of another state, that all
of the corporators must be citizens of the state in which the suit is
brought?
The argument in support of the affirmative of this inquiry is, that
in the case of a corporaton in'which jurisdiction depends upon the
character of the parties, the court looks beyond the corporation to the
individuals of which it is composed for the purpose of asce-taining
whether they have the requisite character, and for no other' purpose.
The object would certainly be to ascertain the character of theparties, but not to the extent of excluding all -inuiry as- to what the.
effect will be, when it has been ascertained 'that the corporators are
citizens of different states from that of the locality of the corporation-,
wvhre by its charter-it can only be sued.
Then the question occurs, if the corporation be only suable where
'
its locality is, and'those to whom its operations are confided are citizens of that state, and a suit is'brought against it by a citizen of
another state, whether by a proper interpretation of the terms giving to
the Circuit Court jurisdiction, it is not a suit between citizens of the
state .where the suit is brought and a citizen of another state. The
fact that' the corporators do live in different states does not aid the
solution of the question. The first, obvious, and necessary interpretation of-the terms by
which jurisdiction is given, is, that the suit need not be between cmzen and. citizen, but may be between citizens. Then, do. the words,
"cof the state where the suit is brought," limit the jurisdiction to a
case in which all the defendants'are citizens of the' same state'
The constitutional grant of judiciAl'power extends to controversies
cbetween citizens of different states." The words- in-, the-'legislative grant of jurisdiction, " of the state where the suit is brought and
3A
VOL. 1.-70

554

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

a citizen of another state," are obviously no -more than equivalent
terms to confine suits in the Circuit Courts to those which are cc between citizens of different states." The words in the- Constitution
then are just as operative to ascertain and limit jurisdiction as the
words in the statute. It is true, that under these words "cbetween
citizens of different states," Congress may give the courts jurisdictionbetween citizens m many other forms than that in wluch it has been
conferred. Bul in the way it is given, the object of the legislature
seems exclusively to have been to confer jursdictidn upon the court,
strictly in conformity to the limitation as it s expressed in the Constitution, " between citizens of different states."
A suit then brought by a citizen of one state against a corporation
by its corporate name in the state of its locality, by which it was
created and where its business is done by any of the corporators who
are chosen to manage its affairs, is a suit, so far as jurisdiction is
concerned, between citizens of the state where the suit is brought
and a citizen of another state. The corporators as individuals are
not defendants in the suit, but they are parties having an -interest in
the result, and some of them being citizens of the state where the suit
is brought, jurisdiction attaches over the" corporation,-nor can we
gee hbw it can be defeated by some of the members, who cannot be
sued, residing in a differeiit state. It may be said that the suit is
against the corporation, and that nothing must be looked at but the
legal entity, and then that we cannot view the members except as an
artificial aggregate. Tins is so, in respect to the subject-matter of
the suit and the judgment which may be rendered., but if it be right
to look to the members to ascertain whether there be jurisdiction or
not, the want of appropriate citizenship in- some of them to sustain
jurisdiction, cannot take it away, when there are other members who
are citizens, with the necessary residence to maintain it.
But we are now met and told that 'the -cases of Strawbridge and
Curtis, 3 Cranch, 267, and that of the Bank of the United States
and Deveaux; 5 Cranch, 84'--hold a different doctrine.
We do not deny that the language of-those decisions do not justify in some degree the inferences which: have been made from them,
or that the effect of them has been to limit the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Courts in practice. to the cases contended for by the counsel
for the plaintiff inerror. The practice has been, since those cases
were decided, that if there'be two or more plaintiffs and two or more
joint-defendants, each-of the plaintiffs must be capable of suing each

55

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
LouisvillQ. Rail-road Company

t.

Letson.

of the defendants in the courts of the United States in order to support the jurisdiction, and m cases of corporation to limit jurisdiction
to cases in which all the corporators were citizens of the state in which
the suit is brought. The cae of Strawbridge and Curtis was decided
without argument. That of the Bank and Deveaux after argument
of great ability. But never since that case has. the question been
presented to this court, with the really distinguished ability of the
arguments of the counsel in this-in no way surpassed by those in
the former. And now we are. called upon m the most imposing way
to give our best judgments to the subject, yielding to decided cases
every thing that can be claimed for them on the score of authority.
except the surrender of conscience.
After mature deliberation, we feel free to say that the cases of
Strawbridge and Curtis and that of the Bank and Deveaux were
carried too far, and that consequences and inferences have been
argumentatiVely drawn from the reasoning employed in the latter
winch ought not to be followed. Indeed, it is difficult not to feel
that the case of'the Bank of the United States and the Planters)
Bank of Georgia is founded upon principles irreconcileable with
some of those on which- the cases.already adverted to were founded.
The case of the Commercial Bank.of Vicksburg and Slocomb was
most reluctantly decided upon the mere authority of those cases.
We do not think either-of them maintainable upon the true prnciples of interpretation of the Constitution and the laws of the United
States. A corporation created by a .state to perform its functions
under the authority of that state and only suable there, though it may
have members out of the state, seems to us to be a person, though
an artificial one, inhabiting and belonging to that state, and therefore
entitled, for the purpose of suing and'being sued, to be deemed a citizen of that state, *Weremark too-.that the cases of Strawbridgeand
Curtis and the Bank and Deveaux have never been satisfactory to
the bar, and that they were not, especially the last, entirely satisfactory to the court that made them. They have been followed always
most reloctantly and'with dissatisfaction. 1ly no one.was the correctness of them more questioned than by the late chief justice who
grave them. It ks within the knowledge of several of us, that he repeatedly expressed regret that those decisions had been made, adding,
whenever the subject was mentioned, that if the point of jurisdiction
was an onginal one, the conclusion would be different. We think
we may safely assert, that a majority of the members- of this cort

556

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville Rlil-road Company v. Letson.

have at all times partaken of the same regret, and that whenever a
case has occurred on the circuit, involving the application of the
case of the Bank and Deveaux, it was yielded to, because the
decision had been made,' and not because it was thought to be
right. We have already said that the case of the Bank of Vicksburg and Slocomb, 14 Peters, was most rel,'-tantly given, upon
mere authority. We are now called upon7 upon the authority of
those cases alone,' to go further in this case than has yet been done.
It has led to a review of the principles of all the cases. We cannot
follow further, and upon- our maturest deliberation we do not think
that the cases relied upon fdr a doctrine contrary to that which this
court will here announce, are sustained vy a sound and comprehensive course of professional reasoning. Fortunately a departure from
them involves no change in a rule of property Our conclusion, too,
if it shall not have universal acquiescence, will be admitted by all to
be coincident with the policy of the Constitution and the condition
of our country. It is coincident also with -the recent legislation of
Congress, as that is shown by the act of the 28th of February, 1839,
in amendment of the acts respecting the judicial system of the Umted
States. We do not hesitate to say, that it was passed exclusively
with an intent to rid the courts of the decision in the case of Strawbridge and Curtis.
But if in all we have said upon 'jurisdiction we are misuiken, we
say that the act of 28th of February, 1839, enlarges the jurisdiction
of the couits, comprehends the case before us, arid embraces the
entire result of the opinion -which we shall now give.
The first section of that act provides, " that wherein any suit at law
or in equity, commenced in any court of the United States, there shall
be several defendants, any one or more of whom shall not be inhabitants of; or found within the district where the suit is brought, or
shall not voluntarily appear thereto, it shall be lawful for the court to
entertain jurisdiction, and proceed to the trial and adjudication of
such suit between the partie., who may be properly before it; but the
judgment or decree rendered'therein, shall not conclude or prejudice
other parties, not regularly served- with process, or not voluntarily appeanng to answer." Wethink, as was said in the case of the Commercial Bank of Vicksburg v. Slocomb, that this act was intended to
remove the difficulties which Occurred in practice, in cases both in
law and equity, under that. clause in the 11th section of the Judiciary
act, which declares, "that no civil-suit shall be broughtbefore either

JANUARY

TERM. 1844.

557

Lou sville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

of said courts against an inhabitant of the United Siates, by any onginal process, in any other district than that whefeof he is an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found at the time of serving the writ,
but a re-examination of the entire section will not permit us to re-affirm
what was s~id in tat case, that the act.did not contemplate a change
in the jurisdiction- of the courts -as it regards the character of the
parties. If the act, in fact, did no more than to make a change, by
empowering the courtg to take cognisance of cases other than such
as were permitted in that clause of the 11th section, which we have
just cited, it would be an enlargement ofjurisdiction as to the character of parties. The clause, that the judgment or decree rendered
shall not conclude or.prejudice other parties, who have not been regularly served with process, or who have not voluntarily appeared to
answer, is an exception, exempting parties so situated from the enactment and must be so strictly applied. It is, definite as to the.persons
of whom it speaks, and contains no particular words, asa subsequent
clause, by which the general words of the statute can be restrained.
The general words embrace every suit at law or in equity, in which
there shall be several deferidants, "cany one or more of whom shall
not be inhabitants of, or found within the district where the suit.is
brought, .or who shall not voluntarily appear thereto." The words,
" shall not be inhabitants of," applies as well to corporators as to persons who are not so, and if, as corporators, they are not suable mdividually-and cannot be served with process, or voluntarily appear in
an action against the corporation. of which they are members, the
conclusion should be that they are not included in the exception, but
are within the general terms of the statute. Or, if they are viewed as
defendants in the §uit, then, as corporators, they are regularly served
with- process in the only way the law permits them to be, when the
corporation is sued by its name.
The case before us might be safely put upon the foregoing reasoning and upon the statute, but hitherto we have reasoned upon -this
case upon the supposition, that in order to found the jurisdiction in
cases of qorporations, it is necessary there should be, an averment,
which, if contested, was to be supported by proof, that some of the
corporators are citizens: of the state by which the corporation was
created, where it does its business, or where it may be- sued. But
this has been done in deference to the doctrnes.of former cases in -this
court, uponwhich wehave been commenting. "But.
there is a bicader
ground upon which we desire to be understood, upon which we..
3
A2

SUPREME COURT.
Louisville Rail-road Company v. Letson.

altogether rest our present judgment, although it might be maintained
upon the narrower ground already suggested. It is, that a corporation created by and doing business in a particular state, is to be
deemed to all intents and purposes as a person, although an artificial
person, an inhabitant of the same state, for the purposes of its incorporation, capable of being treated as a citizen of that state, as much
as a natural person. Like a citizen it makes contracts, and though
in regard to what it may do m some particulars it differs from a natural person, and in this -especially, the -manner in which it can sue
and be sued, it is substantially, within the meaning of the law, a citizen of the state which created it, and where its business is done, for
all the purposes of suing and being sued. And in coming to this
conclusion, as to the character of a corporation, we only make a natural inference from the language of this court upon another occasion,
and assert no new principle. In t ie case of Dartmouth College
v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 636, this court says, "ca corporation is an artificial 'being, invisible, intangible,- and existing only in contemplation
of law. Being the mere creature of law, it possesses only those properties vhich the charter ofits creation confers upon it, either expressly
or as incidental to its very existence. These are such as were supposed' best, calculated to effect the object for which it was created.
Among the most important ire immortality, and if the expression may
be'allowed, mdividuality-properties, by which a perpetual succession
of many persons are considered as the same and may act as a single
individual. They enable a corporation to manage its own affairs,
and to hold property without the perplexing intricacies, the hazardous
and endless necessity, of perpetual conveyances for the purpose of
transmitting it from hand to hand. It is chiefly for the purpose of
clothing bodies of men in succession with these qualities and capacities, that corporations were invented and are in use. By these means
a perpetual succession of 'individuals are capable of acting for the
promotion of the particular object like one immortal being." Again,
the Providence Bank andBillings, 4Peters, 514, it is said, cthe great
object of an incorporation is to bestow the character and properties
of individuality on a collective and changing body of men. This
capacity is always given to such a body. Any privileges which may
exempt it fromi the burdens common to indiiiduals do not flow necessarily from the charter, but must be expressed in it, or they do not
exist." In that case the bank was adjudged to be liable to a tax
ori its property as an individual. Lord Coke, says, " every corpora-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Louisville

Rail-road Company v.

559
Letson.

tion and body politic residing in any county, riding, city or town corporate, or having lands or tenements in any shire, qua-propriisnanibus et sumptibuspossuent et habent, are said to be inhabitants there,
within the purview of the statute." In the case of Kingv. Gardner,
in Cowper, a corporation was decided by the Court of King's
Bench, to come within the description of occupiers or inhabitants. In
the Bank and Deveaux, the case relied upon most for the doctrines
contended forby the plaintiff in error, it is said of a corporation, " this
ideal existence is considered as an inhabitant, when the general spirit
and purposes of the law requires it." If it be so for the purposes of
taxation, why is it not so for the purposes of a stuit in the Circuit
Court of the Umted States, when the plaintiff has the proper residenceP
Certainly the spirit and purposes of the law require it. We confess
our inability to reconcile these qualities of a corporafion-residence,
habitaney, and individuality, with the doctrine that a corporation
aggregnpe cannot be a citizen for the purposes of a suit in the courts
of the Umted States, unless in consequence of a residence of 4 the
corporators being of the state m which the suit is brought. When
the corporation exercises its powers in the state which chartered it,
that is its residence, and such an averment is- sufficient to give the
Circuit Courts jurisdiction.
Our conclusion makes it unnecessary for us to consider that averment
in the plea which denies jurisdiction on the ground that citizens of
the same. state with the .plaintiff are members of corporations in
South Carolina, which are members of the Louisville, Cincinnati,
and Charleston Rail-road Company.
The judgment of the Circuit Court below is affirmed.
ORDER.

Tins cause came on to be heard on the transcript of tihe record
from the Circuit Court of the United-States for the district- of South
Carolina, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
It is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment
of the said Circuit Court m tins cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed with costs and damages at the rate of six per centum per
annum.

