JANUARY TERM, 1844.

895

Taylor et aL v. Savag'e's Executor.

costs of the plaintiff in
affimance is, herefore, entered, at the
error.
ORDEr.

This cause came on to be heard on the trafiscript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States, 'for the Eastern District of 'Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, It is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause he, and 'the same is
hereby affirmed with costs.

WIL LIm

TAYLOR AND

OTHERs, APPELLANTS, V. GEORGE M.

EXECUTOR OF SAMUEL SAVAGE,

DECQEASED,

SAVAGE,

DEFENDANT.

The case of Taylor and others v. Savage, 1 Howard, 282, examined and.
confirmed.

THis case came before the court at the last term; and is reported
in 1 Howard, 282.
It was brought up again on a motion to dismiss the appedl.
,Morehead, who made the moti6n, referred to the decision at the
last term, and said that notwithstanding that decision, the case was
still here. He considered the opinion of the court as covering the
whole ground.
C(ittenden, ,contra.
Both partjes. appealed from the decision of the court below;. but
Savage did not perfect his appeal. There is a difficulty in maldng
proper parties, if the case is sent back The law'of Alabama says
that administration of the estate shall be attached to the office of
sheriff, but his official term will soon expire, and we shall have to
litigate -with temporary administrators.
Berrien, on the same side, thought therd was still a case before
the court upon which it could act. It is true that the. decree below
was rendered on the same day that the administrator was removed;
but notwithstanding this, it -was well rendered. If a party dies, the
court will direct a judgment to be entered as on the first
day of:the
term. 2 Peters, 481.

396

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. Savage's Executor.

There is no difference between a party dying and one in a representative character being removed. This must have been the view
of the court; the validity. of the decree must have been recognised
'when they said that the voluntary appearance of Benham would cure
all defects. The decree could not have been considered null. If
the decree was well rendered, the appeal was well taken, because it
was taken at the same term whilst the proceedings were within the
power of the court. The appeal was prayed and allowed in open
court. This court can now proceed either,
1. By Benham's voluntary appearance, or
2. By issuing process to bring him in.
1. This was decided, at the last term.
2. Benham's will cannot give the court jurisdiction. The-_28th
rule provides for the dath of a party and summoning another to take
his place, The same power that adopted this rule can modify it and
say that the. successor to an executor can be summoned. The pQwer
to establish a general rule involves the power to make a special one
to suit' a particular case; general rules are made only to prevent
specific orders.
Sergeant, in reply and conclusion, argued at some length that the
decision at the last term covered the case as it now stood. The
party on- the other side must, gd into the court below and have the
record put into a, correct form.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the court.
The court have bad this case -under consideration, and are of
opinion that it is completely governed by ,the decision made in the
same case at the last term of this court, which is reported in 1 Howard's Rep. 282. An attempt has been made at'the bar to distinguish
the former decision from that now sought, by suggesting that the
former proceeded mainly upon the ground that the appeal was irregularly made, and did not directly involve the question now argued.
We think otherwise; and that the ground of that decision completely
covers all that has been urged upon the present occasion; not-as
mere incidental.suggestions, but as the very hinge on which the case
turned. Notwithstanding the opinion of this court then expressed,
that the case might. be remanded to the District Court, for the pur-'
pose of making the proper parties, the appellants have neglected,
during a whole year, to take a'single step for the remanding of the

JANTUARY TERM, -1844.

357

Rhodes v. Bell.

case, or instituting,any proceedings in the court below; which laches
certainly ought not to produce any result in their favour.
The appeal is, therefore, dismissed, and the cause is remanded to
the'District Court of the noathem district of Alabama, with leave to
the appellants to make the proper parties, and to the new administrator, Benham, to become a party to the suit; and that such other
proceedings be had as to law and justice shall appertain.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the trans6ript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the northern district.
of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideratioti whereof,
It is ordered and decreed by this court, tat this appeal be,- and the
same is hereby dismissed, and that this- cause be, and the sam6 is
hereby remanded to the said District Court, -with leave to the appellants to make the proper parties, and to the new administrator, Beb-

ham, to become a party to the suit; and that such other proceedings
be had therein as to law and justice shall appertain.

J as RHODES, PLAInm FF IN ERROR, V. Moszs BELL.
The District of Columbia being still governed by the laws of Virginia and Marv
land, which were in force anteridr to the cession, it is not lawful for an inhabitant of Washington county to purchase a slave in Alexandria county, and
bring him into Washington county for sale. If he does, the slave will becomei
entitled to his freedom.

eTHis case was brought up by writ of error, from the Circuit Court
of the United' States for the District of Columbia. in and for the
county of Washington.
IIt was a petition for freedom filed-by Bell. The facts are set forth
in the special verdict, which is as follows:
.zWe of the jury find that previous to' the year 1837, the
petitioner was the slave of a certain Lawrence Hoff, a-resident of
Alexandria county, in the District of.Columbia; that in the yeaf
1837 the said Hoff, then owning and possessing the' petitioner as his
slave, in the county of Alexandria aforesaid, whereof he contittued to
be a resident, did sell and deliver the petitioner to one Little, then

2L

