JANUARY TERM," 1844.

DAVID SnpUvR Jumon's LEssEE, v. MARY LYNN, WI.Li
LYNN,
GFo'tGE LYNN, JOHN G. LYNN, JAsxs C. LYNN,ELLEN JANE LYNN,
MARY fhAGRUDER, JONATHAN W. MAGRUDER,. ANNA B. TILGHMAN,
FREDERiox AUGUSTUS SCHLEY, (WHO MARRIED WIrH FRANCINA C.
LYNN DECEASED, DAUGHTER OF DAVID LYNN) PREDERICK AUGUSTUS

SCH~y, WILLInm HENRY Scrai.EY, n ELizA. M. SCHLEY (CHILDREN
OF FREDLRICK A. SCHLEY AND FRAwCNA ms WIFE) DEVIEES OF
DAVID LYNN.

The following words in a will, viz.. "I give and bequeath unto my brother,
E. M., during his natural life, 100 acres of land. In case the said E. M.
should have heirs lawfully begotten of him in wedbck, I then give and
bequeath the 100 acres of land aforesaid, to him, the said E. M., his
heirs and assigns for ever; but Should be, the said E. M., die without an heir
so begotten, I give, bequeath, devise. and desire, that the 100 acres of land
aforesaid, be sold to the highest bidder, and the money arising from the sale
thereof, to be equally divided amongst my six children," give to B. M. only

an estate for life, and not a fee-simple conditional.
Under the statute of Maryland, passed in 1785, (1Maxcy's Laws, chap. 72,) the
chancellor can decree a sale of land upon the application of only a part of the
heirs interested; and as he had jurisdiction, the record must be r~ceived as
conclusive of the rights adjudicated.
The decree of the chancellor must he cornstrued to conform to the sale prayed
for in the petition, and authorized by the will; and a sale beyond that isnot
rendered valid by a final ratification.
A sale ordered by a court, in a case where it had not jurisdiction, must be considered asinadvertently done, or as an unauthorized proceeding; and, in either
branch of the alternative, as a nullity.
Tins casewas brought up byivrit of error from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the' district of Maryland,. and was an ejectment for 100 acres of land, lying in Alleghany county, in that

state.
The plaintifl, who was also plaintiff in the-court below, claimed
title under a sheriff's sale; but the opinion of the court; upon a case

stated, being against him, he brought it up -to'this court..
The facts were as follows:
In 1789, Zachariah Magruder was in possession of a tract of land
called George's Adventure, containing -456 acres. His title was

admitted, upon all sides, to be good;
In that year he made his will; which contained the following be-

44

SUPREME COURT.
Shriver's Lessee v. Lynn et aL

qluest to his wife: I also give to my said beloved wife the full use
3f my dwelling plantation, containing in the whole, cleared and uncleared, afr-the lega6y hereafter given is taken out, about 356 acres,
called Oeorge's Adventure, to 'be by her peaceably and quietly possessed and enjoyed without molestation. during her.natural life.
After sundry other bequests, h- goes on to say,
Item.-I give and bequeath unto my brother, Elias Magruder,
duing his natural life, 100-acres of land, being part of a tract of land
called George's Adventure,. lying. and*being in Washington county,
and state aforesaid; to be laid offat the upper.end of the tract aforesaid, so as to include the plantation whereon he low lives.' In case
the aid Elias Magruder should have heim lawfully begotten of him
in wedlock, I then give and bequeath the 100 acres of land aforesaid
to him, the said Elias Magruder, his hei-s and assigns, for ever ; but.
should--he, the said Elias Magruder; die without an heir so begotten,
I give, bequeath, devise, -and desire, that the 100 acres of land aforesaid -be sold to the highest bidder, and tlie money arising from the
sale thereof to be equally divided 'among mny six following children,
to wit: Samuel Beall Magruder, William B, Magruder, Richard.
Magruder, Josiah Magruder,.Norman Bruce Magruder, and Nathaniel
BeallMagruder.
Item.-I devise, give, bequeath, and desire, that the remaining
part of 'my land, called George's A'dventure, being about 356 acres,
lying. and being in Washington county, and state aforesaid, to be
sold to the highest bidder,.by, and at the discretion-of:my executrix
and executor hereafter named; and the money arising from such sale
to be divided equally amongst my six sons, to wit: Samuel Beall
.Xagruder, William Beall Magruder, Richard Magruder, Josiah
Magruder, Norman Bruce Magruder, and Nathaniel B. Magruder.
After some further provisions, the testator appointed his wife and
son executrix and executor.
In 1796 Zachariah Magruder died, and his brother Elias took possession of the 100 acres, which were laid off agreeably to the directions of the will. The title of the defendants is derived wholly from
Elias Magruder, who conveyed the 100 acres to David Lynn, their
ancestor, in fee-.ismple in 1806.
In 1805, four of the six children mentioned in the 'will, filed a
petition in the high court of Chancery of Maryland, stating that the
execttrix was dead; that the letters testamfntary which had been
granted-to the executor had been revoked; that no sale of the real

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

45

Shriver's Lessee v. Lynn et al.

estate had been made; that the testator devised that the remaining
part of his land called George's Adventure, being about 356 acres,
should be sold to the highest bidder, and the money equally divided
amongst his six children, including the petitioners. The petitiQn
prayed the court to grant them relief, by appointing a trustee to sell
all the property devised to be sold, and apply the proceeds to the
purposes directed by the will.
The chancellor granted the prayer, and decreed that the real estate
directed to be sold in the will, should be s6ld, and appointed a trustee
in the usual way.
The decree ran thus: -That Roger Perry be, and- he is hereby
appointed trustee for making the said sale, and that the course and
manner of his proceedings shall- be as follows: He shall first file
with the register of this court a bouid executed by himself and a
surety or sureties approved by the chancellor,". &c. &c.
The decree was passed at'December session, 1805.
On the 10th of March, 1806, Elias Magruder conveyed, to David
Lynn, as has been already stated, the 100 acres of land upon which
he, Elias, lived.
On the 224 of March, 1806, the trustee proceeded to*sell the
356 acres mentioned in the will, stating in is report that he
excepted the 100 acres devised to Elias Magruder, saying, ".The
100 acres, part of said tract devised to lie sold in casd Elias Magruder
should die without heirs, as expressed in the will, still remains unsold."
The report passed through the regular process, and was finally
ratified in June, 1807; the nett proceeds of sale being equally
amongst the six children of Zachariah Magruder.
At some period, prior to the 1st of January, 1812, Elias died unmarried, not having at the time of his decease, nor ever having had,
any heir or issue begotten by him in wedlock.
On the 15th of February, 1812, the trustee proceeded to sell, as
he said' in his report, "all the remaining part of the real estate of
Zachariah Magruder, deceased, consisting of 100 acres of land, part
of a tract of land called Geog's Adventure, it being that part devised to Elias Magruder," when Walter Sliter became the highest
bidder and purchaser.
This report was finally ratified in February, 1813; and, in August,
3813, the trustee executed a deed to Slicer, describing the 100 acres
by the same metes and bounds by which they had been originally
located when Elias Magruder took possession under the will.

46

$UPREME COURT.
Shriver's Lessee v. Lynn e'taL

In October, 1817, one Arnold, for the use of David Shriver,
junior, the lessor of the plaintiff in this cause, and one Lamar, for
himself brorght suits against Sicer in the county court of Alleghany
county; and in February, 1818, one Evans, also for the use of
Shfiver; brought suit against Slicer in the. samie court.
The defendant in the present case relying, as a ground of defence,
upon an outstanding title existing ii Lamar or his heirs under these
proceedings, and the plaintiff resting his title wholly upon them, their
progress is exhibited iq a tabular form, showing the history of each
one, upr to the consummation by a sale of the 100 acres now in dispute.
ARNOLD

EVANS

1817. Sues Slicer.
1818. Gets. judgment
aoainst Slicer..
JUigment. sitpersdded.

Sues Slicer

1819. June-Sues out April 20. Gets judgFi. Fa.
ment.
October-Fi. Fa. June-Issues FL. Fa.
countermandOctober-Fi.Fa.qouned.

1820.

LAMAR,
Sues Slicer.

April 28..Gets judgment.
October-Issues Fl.
Fa.

ternanded.

February 2d, Fi. Fe.
"to I]."

February-Injunction
on the judgment.

1821.
1822.

April-Answer filed
October-Injmtion
dissolved.

1823. December 31.,
December31. Cei.Fa.
Sci. Fa. is- issued.
sued.

2d. Fi. Fa. 100 acres
sold to Lamar.
In September sheriff
mikes deed.

1824. Fiat.
Fi. Fa.issued.
100 acres sold
to Shriver by
sherifF,

Fiat.
Fi. Fa. issued.
2d Fi. Fa.
100 acres sold to Shriver by sheriff.

1825. Sheriff makes1
deed to Shriver.

Sheriff makes deed to
Shiver.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

47

Shri ers Lessee v. Lynn et al.

In 1827, Shriver, the purchaser under the two elder judgments,
brought suit in the Circuit Court of the United States, he being at
that time a citizen of Virginia, against David Lynn, the assignee of
Elias Magruder, as already stated.
In 1836, the death of David Lynn-was suggested and his devise es
became defendants.
In 1839 a vegdict was found for the plaintiff subject to the opinion
of the court upon a case to be stated; upon which case, when stated,
the opinion .of the court below was in favour of the defendants and
judgment rendered accordingly. To review this opinion, the writ
of error was sued out.
It was agreed at the trial of the cause, "cthat the court might, in
deciding this case, pre'suin from the aforesaid proceedings in-Chancery, any fact which they would direct a jury to presume from said
proceedings."
B. Jomson, for the plaintiff.
,Shdey, for the defendants.
The points made respectively were, for the plaintift,
1. That by the -ifl of Z. Magruder, of 26th March, 1789, Elias
Magruder took a life-estate only in the land sued for, and, under the
facts in the case, had no other estate to his death; and that, at his
death, the land was to be sold for the benefit of the six childreh'of
the testator mentioned in the devise.
2. That this being the case, the Court of Chancery of Maryjand
had authority, upon the petition of four of such children, to decree a
sale of the land.
3. That the court did so. decree, and
4. That the sale made under the decree to Walter Slicer, under
,,jhoin the lessor of
plaintiff claims, lpassed to Slicer the fee,
which is now.in the plaintiffs lessor.
For the defendants,
1. -That finder the -devise to Elias Magruder, (in the 8fi clause
of the will of Zachariah Magruder,) said Elias Magruder virtuaUy
tobk, under the laws of Mar-land, anestate in fee-simple..
2: That even if Elias Magruder, under the facts stated, took only
an estate for life, yet the proceedings in Chancery were not effectual
to vest in Walter Slicer (through whore the plaintiff claims) a legal
title to.the parcel of lnd sought.to be recovered in this suit.
'3. -That even if, upon the facts stated, said-Walter Slicer acquired
-the

-

SUPREME COURT.
Shriver's Lessee v. Lynn et al.

a legal title to said land, yet the lessor of the plaintiff, upon the whole
facts, does not show that such title had become vested in him at the
time of the demise.
4. That even if the lessor of the plaintiff had, at the time of the
demise, a legal title to undivided parts of the tract, hq could not
recover at all, the demise being for an entirety.
Johnson, for plaintiff.
The first question is, what estate did Elias Magruder take under
the will? We say, only an estate for life: the bther side say that it
was eithe- an estate in fee, by virtue of the rile n Shelly's case, or
a fee-tail, or a fee-simple conditional at common law. It is perfectly
clear that if the will had sfopped at the first paragraph, the estate
devised would have been only for life; the doubt is as to the second
paragraph. If the contingency happened5 the estate was to beconie
a fee to the devisee; if he died without children, then it was to go
to the children of the testator;
Is it enlarged by the rule in Shelly's case?
1 Rep. 93 contains the rule. It was recognised as an oid one,
and is, that where an estate is given for life with limitation over to
heirs, it is an estate in fee, and taken by virtue of the rule. But if
the contingency had happened here, the devisee wo,'d have.taken
under the will an estate in fee; and the distinctioii is in his takng
under the will or under the rule. Fearne, Con. Rem. 28, note;
1 Hargrave's Law Tracts, 490; 1 Preston on Estates, 263 to 419;
4 Kent, 214.
Is it a conditional fee-simple ?
The defendant is understood to place it in this class. But a conditional fee-simple at common law is an estate limited over to some
particular heirs, in exclusion of heirs general. -Before statute of,
Westminster, courts held that where the contingency happenedi the
estate became absolute and could be aliened; but in no other ease
,than where heirs special are preferred to heirs general. A qualified
or base fee is where a deed is made to A. and his heirs, tenants of
the manor of Dale; where they hold only as long as.they are tenants.
The error of the 6ther side is in not distinguishing between a feesimple conditional at common law ana an estate to arise upon condition. The difference between estates upon condition precedent
and condition subsequent is, that in the former there is no estate in
the party until the coniingency happens. whilst in the latter there is.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

49

Sebriver's -Lessee v. Lynn et al.

-

Here, the estate in fee was to arise upon the happening of a future
contingency, in case Elias married and had children; otherwise he
was a mere tenant for life. 2 Bla. Com. 109.
2. Was the chancery proceeding regu.lar?
1.Did the Maryland statute give jurisdiction ?
2. Was it a case oE ordinary chancery jurisdiction?
The Court of Chancery is createa by the constitution of *thestate,
and invested with all chancery powers, unless restrained by law.
In-case of doubt, we look at the statute to see Whether it takes away
any of the ordinary chancery powers. The act of 1785, chap. 72. is
intended to enlarge jurisdiction; its title being, "cAnact to enlarge the
jmisdiction of the High Court of Chancery." The 4th section is
applicable to this case. The executrix was dead, and the authority
of the executor was revoked. No regular. bill -was' necessary; a
petition was sufficient. All that the chancellor had to be satisfied
of, were two things: 1st, That the sale ought to be made, and 2d,
That there was no person-to make it.
2. It was a case also of ordinary chancery jilrisdictioA. A trust
was to be executed and therewas no trustee. The petition prayed
for a sale, and the decree was that all directed by the will to be sold
should be sold. The trustee, therefore, sold the whole.
Our title is good, if Slicer's was. He claims under the proceedings of a court of competent jurisdiction, whose decision must be
presumed to be right. Elias must be presumed to have been deid,
if it is necessary to sustain the authority of the court. It is objected
also that it does not appear that the tustee ever gave a bond; but,
this court must presulue that every thing Was properly done.
10 Peters, 449.
It is also objected that the power to sell was'in the- surviving
executor. This couit and the Court of Appeals in Maryland have
differed upon this point. 10 Peters;,533, that it survives; 4 Gill
and Johnson, 323, that it does not. But the ground of the decision
in Peters was, that the sale -was to be made to pay debts. In this
case there were no debts... The devisees cannot deny the validity of
the chancery proceedings.
SchZey, fqr defendant.
By the laws of Maryland (1789, chap. 45) estates of fee-tail general or fee-simple conditional are in fact fee-simple estated, because
they ard descendible as such, (1 Harris and Gill, 111,) and are liabld
-VoLH.-7E

SUPREME
Shriver's Lessee

COURT.
v. Lynn et a].

for the debts of the deceased. Elias took a fee-simple conditional.
2 Preston.on Estates, 289, 295, 298, 303, 304
Elias had something aste than an estate for life. 1 Brockenborough, 131 ; 2 Virgiia Rep. 11 ; 7 Harris and Johnson, 244;
Fleta, lib. 3, chap. 9, page 186; Bracton, 17 ; 1 Reeves' History of
English Law, 293; 2 Preston, 296; Plowden, 233, 250; 2 Lord Raymond, 779: Co. Litt. 18.
If Elias had issue, they woul.3 havetaken by descent afterhis death;
he must therefore have had a,fee in himself. 1 Preston en Estates,
264; 2 Powel on Devises, 602; Willes, 3; 2 Gill and Johns. 458.
Suppose Elias had only an estate for life; how does Slicer get the
residue? In 1805, Elias Magruder wa, alive, because in 1806 he
sold land. The chancellor ordered the land sold free of all claims
of heirs or devisees; 'butEllias was a devisee and living on the land
Was his land sold"over his head? -He had not joined in the petition,
or forfeited his estate. The petition, ther ffre, does not include the
100 acres, but states that the 356 acres. had iiot been sold. True,
the decree covers all; but it must be limited by the petition.
The act of 1785 does not include this case, because it is confined
to cases where the party neglects or refuses to act; but Elias being
alive, there was no neglect to sell the 100 acres, because the time
to sell had not yet come. Elias might even then be married and
have children.
The power of the trustee was only that which the executor had,
the proceeding being exparte. Elmas did not die until 1812, and
the chanc6llor could not divest him of his rights upon apetition filed
by other persons.
The bond of the trustee is a condition precedent, and he had no
right to act without complying with it. The law required a bond.
The case in 2 Gill and Johnson, 114, is not applicable, because no
final ratification appeared there, and there was niuch evidence on
the subject.
Suppose that Slicer had a gool title, did the plaintiff obtain it?
'The two elder judgments were dormant for three years prior to Lamar's
sale. If there is an outstanding title in Lamar, the plaintiff must
fail in his ejectment; on this subject some analogous cases may be
found in 12 Wheaton, 179; 4 Cond. Rep. 457, note.
In Maryland, there is no law limiting the lien of a judgment, but
the judgment itself is good for twelve years. The chancellor, however,
decided (2 Bland Ch. Rep. 323) that a judgment cannot lie dorifant

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

.51

Shriver's Lessee v. Lynn et al.
for ever. Some illustrative cases are .2 Harris and Johnson, 66;
8 Gill and Johnson, 38; 1 Gill and Johnson, 360.
It is settled in Maryland that there must be a scire facias where
a new party is to be charged; such party must have.a day in court.
2 Harris mid Johnson, 72.; 10 Gill and Johnson, 373.
4. The demise is for an entirety.
Two children did not jdin in the petition, and the record does not
show that they ever received a distributive 'share of the proceeds of
the second sale of 100 acres. Their title is not extinguished; and
whatever may be the condition of the other four children, the plaintifT, not having acquired the title of these two, cannot succeed under
his present demise.
Johnson, in reply.

It does not appear that any of the children everr objected to the
proceedings of the trustee.
As to the 356 acres, it must be admitted that there was no other.
mode of making a sale than under, the act of 1785 ; and there was
the same necessity as to the 100 acres. The executor had not power
to sell them; here 'was a case, then, where property ought- to be
sold; and there was nobody to sell it. If the chancellor appoints a.
trustee, he has decided that a trust exists. This court has said that
the decision. of a court of competent jurisdiction, must stand; and
must assume that the necessary facts were proved.
The Court of Appeals in Maryland have decided (M. S. 'Derison
and Dublin) that a proceeding under the fourth section of the act of
1785 is like a suit. One person is enough to petition; others' can go
in and be heard. If one were not enough to petition, the act would
be of little use. The trustee was directed to - sell and convey the
property," not merely the interest of the petitioners. The act was
designed, for a practical purpose, to reach the -estate.
Was the trustee appointed for the 100 acres also? True, the petition
speaks only of 356 acres, but it refers to the will, and states it. The
same children who were to receive the proceeds of the 356 acres,
were, by the will, also to receive the proceeds of the 100 acres. The

right to the 100 acres was prospective and cpntingent; but the
trustee was vested -with power to sell all, for the sake of convenience.
It is objected that Elias was still alive; but the court may as well
presume him to be dead, as that there was error in the decree. The
admission in 1he record is, that the court may presume any fact which

52

SUPREME COURT.
Shriver's Lessee

v. Lynn et al.

they would instruct a jury to presume. If, therefore, they wofild
instruct a jury to presume the death of Elias, it can presume it too.
The trustee first reported that hehad not sold the 100 acres, and
afterwards reported specially that he had. The court, by ratifying
this last report, have made it conclusive that they considered the
trustee to have been authorized.
This party cannot object to these proceedings; if any persons
could, it would be the children who did not join, but te court
would not now tolerate an ejectmerit, if brought by. them.
The bond is not ntcessary to give the chancellor jurisdiction, but
to secure the parties; its omission is a mere irregularity, and not to
be brought into view upon a collateral matter. Besides,'it must be
presumed to have been given. In 2 Gill and Johnson, 114, a ratification was presumed, page 130.
It is said that we do not show a title to the whole. But the
two children who did not petition received their share of the proceeds; and by that act made themselves parties.. They are estopped.
The decree gave authority to sell the whole land, and the whole title
was conveyed to us.
The Courtof Appeals did say once, that a plaintiffcould not recover
an undivided part, claiming title to the wh6le. The act of 1832
corrected this. This art has been repealed in part, but not in this.
As to an outstanding title in Lamar:-Until the chancellor said otherwise, the profession had no doubt
of the propriety of the lien of an elder judgment. Before the act of
1823, execution had to be issued withiii a year and a day. Now
three years are allowed. All judicial liens must be noticed by all. A
purchaser under a junior judgment must be presumed to have notice
of the first. The chancellor says that the object of requiring a prompt
issue is to protect purchasers; but they are already protected by the
records.
What estate did Elias take ?
It is true that an estate-tail general or fee-simple conditional is,
by the laws of Maryland, synonymous with a fee-simple. But a feesimple conditional is where the limitation is to heirs special, to
the exclusion of heirs general. 2 Bla. Com. 110. There is no
such special limitation in this will. No estate of inheritance passed
on the death of the testator. 2 Bla. Com. 151, 154, defines an
estate upon condition.
If a fee passed upon the death of the testator, it was hot by virtue

i

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

53

Shriver's Lessee v. Lynn et al.
of the will. Aules giving a different direction to an estate from that
pointed out in the wfi are not applied except from necessity. The
devise to the children. is a good executory devise, to take effect
unless a contingency happened. The object of the testator was to
benefit his children; but the argumeni of the other side would defeat
that intention.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes up on.a writ of error to the Circuit Court for the,
district of Maryland. An action of ejectment was commenced by
the lessor of the plaintiff, to recover the possesson of 100 acres of
land, part of a tract called George's Adventure, situated near the
town of Cumberland. In the Circuit Court a verdict was found for
the plaintiff, subject to the -opinion of the court upon a cause stated.
A. judgment was entered for the defendant; and the cause is now
before us, on the facts agreed.
By his last will and testament; Zachariah Magruder,- a citizen of
Maryland, among other things devised to his wife Sarah, -c the full
use of his dwelling-plantation, containing in the whole, after a certain
legacy was deducted, about 356 acres, called Georgels Adventure,
in Washingtqn county; to be by her peaceably and quiqly possessed
and enjoyed without molestation, during her natural life."
The will also contained the following, cc I give and bequeath unto
my brother, Elias Magruder, during his natural life, 100 acres of
land, being part of a tract of land called George's Adventure, lying
and being in Washington county, and state aforesaid; to be laid off
at the upper 'endof the tract aforesaid, so as to include the plantation
on -which he now lives. In case the said Elias Magrider should
have heirs lawfully begotten of him inwedlock, I then give andbequeath the 100 acres of laud aforesaid to him, the said Elias
Magruder, his heirs aild assigns, for ever; but should he, the said
Elis Magruder, die without an heir so begotten, I give; bequeath,
devise, and desire, that the 100 acres of land aforesaid be sold to
the highest bidder, and the money arising from the sale thereof to be
equally divided among my six following children, to wit: Samuel,"
&c- The testator having died, proof was made of his will, and
letters testamentary were granted, the 3d of May, 1796, to Sarah
Magruder his wife and his son Nathaniel B. Magrader, named as
executrix and executor in the will.
After the decease of the testator, Elias Magruder took possession
E2

54

SUPREME COURT.
Shriver's Lessee v. Lynx, et al.

of the 100 acres of land devised to him, and being so in possession
he conveyed the tract to David Lynn, who devised the same to the
present defendant.
On the 30th of December, 1805, Samuel B. Magruder and three
other, brothers, sons of Zachariah Magruder, filed .their petition to
the chancellor of Maryland, representing that their father after making
particular dispositions of property, devised that the remaining part
of'his land, called George's Advefiture, being about 356 acres,
should be sold to the highest bidder, by and at the discretion of his
executrix and executor, and the money equally divided amongst his
six children, including the petitioners."
The petitioners stated that the executrix was deceased, and that
'Nathaniel B. Magruder, being insolvent, at the instance of his sure*ties, his power as executor had been revoked by the Orphan's Court.
And the petitioners prayed that a trustee might be appointed c;to sell
all the property devised to be sold by the will, and such other and
further relief," &c. The. will was filed. as an exhibit.
On the day of filing the petition, the chancellor decreed, " that the
real estate in the said will directed to be sold shall be sold; that
Roger Perry be appointed trustee, who. shall give bond in $2000,
conditioned for ;the faithful performance of the trust reposed in him
by the decree, or to be reposed in him by any future decree or order
in the premises,'and that he shall proceed to sell," &c.
Afterwards on the 22d of May, 1806, the trustee reported that he
"had sold the real estate in the said will and decree mentioned,"
Sand had made distribution, &c; At the close of his report he says,
- the 100 acres, part of the said tract devised to be sold in
case Elias Magruder should die without heirs, as expressed in
the will;, still remains urisold." The sale was ratified by the chancellor.
And afterwards, on the 9th of June,. 1812, the trustee made a
second report, that he "chad sold the remaining part of the real estate
of Zachariah Magruder, deceased, consistiDg of 100 acres of land,"
&c. This sale was also ratified by the chancellor, and a deed was
executed to Walter Slicer, the purchaser. In the year 18i8, a
judgment was obtained against Walter Slicer, and two others in the
year 1819. On one of the junior judgments execution was issued,
under which the land in question was sold to Lamar. On the other
junior judgment, obtained at the same term, an execution wtis issued,
and the same tract was sold, after the above sale, to David Shriver, jr.,

JANUARY
Shriver's Lessee

TERM, 1844.

5

v. Lynn et al.

the lessor of the plaintiff. He also purchased, subsequently, the same
imet, under the prior judgment.
The first question for consideration arises out of the devise, in the
will, to Elias Magruder. Did he take a life-estate, only, or a feesimple? That he took an estate in fee-simple conditional in the 100.
acres, is urged by the defendants' counsel.. And a statute of Maryland of 1786, entitled can act to direct descents," 2 Ketty's Laws,.
chap. 45, which provides that lands held " in fee-simple or fee-simple
conditional, or in fee-tail to the heirs of the body generaly," shall
descend in the same manner, is relied on as giving a fee-simple to
the devisee. Under this, statute, it"
must be admitted, whether the
estate vested be technically considered a fee-tail general or a conditional fee-simple, in effect, it is a fee-simple.
In 1 Inst. 20 s. it is said that ccall limitations confined to the heirs
of the body, either by direct or circuitous expression, and which are
not estates-tail under the statute de donis, remaii conditional.or
qualified fees at the common law. A gift of land to a man and his
heirs generally, if he shall have heirs of his body, without any other
expression to qualify he .word heirs of his body, is a conditional fee.
Fleta, b. 3, c. 9, 136. - And in Plow, 233-, it is said, c and the Lord
Dyer in his argument took exception to the ratification, for that it
confesses the estate-tail in King Henry VII., and then says, that he
having issue, Prince Arthur, entered and was seised in fee.; whereas,
he said, the-having issue did not make him to have the fee, for the
fee e"her accrued to him by the remainder or never." The same
doctrine is found in page 250; Machell v. Clarke, 2 Lord Raym.
778. By the statute de donis, :Westi. 2, 13 Ed. 1, a fee-simple
conditional estate at common law, in certain cases, was. converted
into a fee-tail which, by alienation;the ancestor could not change.
The estate under consideration, it is insisted, is a conditional feesimple; or in other words that the fee vested is liable to be.defeated
on the fiilure of heirs as provided in the will. On the other b'id.e
it
is argded, that the condition was a precedent one, which must happen before the fee vested. The doctrine above cited seems to favour
the first of these positions, as does also the rule in Shelly's case.
By that rule, -"inany instrument; if a freehold be limited to the ancestor for life, and the inheritance tor
his heirs, either mediately or
immediately, the first, taker takes the whole estate." This rule had
its origin in feudal times, and was, perhaps, in no small degree influenced by eonsiderations which have long since ceased to exist.

56

SUPREME COURT.'
Shrivers. Lessee v. Lynn et al.

The ule, Mr. Preston says, :1 Pres. on Estates, 369, " is of positive
institution, and has .this circumstance of peculiarity and variance
from rules of construction." "Istead of seeking the intention of
the parties and aiming at its accomplishment, it interferes in some,
at feast, if' not in all cases, with the presumable, and in many instances, he express intention." cc In its very object, the rule was
levelled against the views of the parties."
That .tlis effect has been given to the. rule by some adjudications
is admitted. But there is a rule of construction applicable to all
insuruments, and especially: to wills, that, is, the intention, of the
parties, which should control any arbitrary rule however ancieht
may be its origin. And of this bpinion was Lord Mansfield, in
Perrin v. Blake,'4 Burr. 257.9. He says, "cthe rule is not a general
proposition, subject to n6 control; where the intention is on the other
side, and where objections maybe answered." . And he agreed, as
Mr. Preston remarls, with Justices Wilmot and Aston. that "the
iitention i&to govern, and that Shelly's case "does not eonstitute a
'decisive uncontrollable rule." Mr. Justice Buller, in the case
of
Hodgion and'wife v. Ambrose,.Doug. 337, was of the same opinion,
and also Lord Hardwicke. in Bagshew and Spencer, 2 Atk. 583.
Where technical words are used in a deed of conveyance, the legal
import of 4uch Words must govern. But tbre is no rule better
established, than that in giving a construction to a will, the intention
of the testator must prevail. His"expressed intention constitutes the
law, unless it shall c6nflict with some, established legal principle.
Under this rule th. nature and extent of the estate devised to Elias
Magruder. must depend upon the words of the will
In the first clause of the devise a life- state is clearly given to him.
,I give and beqlueath unto my brother, Elias Magruder, during his
natural life, 100 acres of land," &c'. The second clause of.the-devise
is equally explicit. -In case the said Elias Magruder-should have
heirs lawfully begotten of him in wedlock, I then give and bequeath'
the 100 acres of land aforesaid, to hini, his heirs and assigns, for ever."
Now the condition of having heirs as above expressed, is clearly a
precedent, condition and: must happen before the istate vests. - And
-if any doubt could arise from the above sentences whether the testator intended to-vest in. Elias more than a life-esiate, that doubt must
be dispelled by the succeeding sentence, ".but, should he, the said
',lias M.agruder, die without an er so begotten, I give; b-jueath,
devise, and desire that the 106 acres.of land, aforesaid, be sold to

JANUARY

TEoRM,

Shrivdr'si Lessee

1844.

57

v. Lynn et al.

the-highest bidder, and-the money-arising from the sale thereof, to
be 'equally divided among my six children."
It would be difficult to convey in' more explicit language, than'is
done in'the above sentences, the intention of the testator. He gives
a life-estate; and then, on the happening of the contingency named,
he gives an estate to the devisee and his heirs hi fie-simple; but,
should the contingendy not -happen, he directs the .land to. be sold
and-the proceedi distributed among his children. No other coficlusion can be arrived at, on this view of the will, than.that Elias Magruder took only a life-estate in the land. His conveyance, there'
fore, could transfer no interest in the land, beyond his own life.
The next question regards the title under-the proceedings before
the chancellor.
These'proceedings were by virtue of cc an act of 1785, for~enlarging the power 'of the High Court of Chan~ery." 1 MaxeyI'Laws,.
ch.- 72, sect. .4, which provides, "c that if any person hath died or
shall die, leaving T'e.l or personal estate to be-sold for the 'paymenrt
of debts, or other purposes, and shall not, by will or other instrument.
in' writing, appoint a person or persons to 'ell or -convey. the same,
property, or if the person or persons appointed for the purpose
aforesaid 'shall neglect, or refuse to execute such trust, or if. guch.
person or persons, or any of them, shall-die before tho "execution ofsuch trust, so that the sale cannot be made for the purposes intehded,
in every such case the chancellor shall have full powerand adthorify,
upon application or petition from. any person or persons interested inthe sale of such propetty, to appoint, such trustee or trustees'for the
purpose of selling and. conveying such property, and applying the
money arising from the sale to the purposes intended; a'the chancellor shall in his discretion think -proper."
An objection. is made to these' proceedings, in liihne, on the
ground that only a part of the heirs interested; united in the application to th'e. chancellor, But this objection is not'-sustainable.. The
petition was for the benefit of all the heirs, and the statute does not
require that all shall unite in the p'etitiori: cc Any person or.persons
interested" may apply to the chancellor. Whether applicantor not,
all the heirs equally participated in the results of the proceedings,
and this is a sufficient answer. to any 'technical objection.
' But the main point under this head is, whether.the sale of the 100
acres now in controversy was of any validity. That the proceedings before the chancellor 'constitied a suit is
VOL.. I.-8

58

SUPREME COURT.
Shriver's Lessee v. Lynn et al.

admitted; .and also that they are conformably, at least in part, to the
mode of procedure in such cases. The chancellor hacl jurisdiction
of the cause, as presented by the' petition; and this being the case,
no advantage can be taken of errors, however gross, -whenthe record
is used collaterally. If a -want of jurisdiction appear on the face of
the record, the judgment or decree will be treated as a nullity. But
-where there was jurisdiction, the record must be received as conchsi re of the rights adjudicated. No fact established by the judgment of the court can be controverted. In the language of this
court, in the.case of Voorhees v. The Bank of the United.States,
10 Peters; 450, the record imports absolute verity. But when a
judgment or decree is given in evidence, its nature and effect can
only be ascertained by an examination of the ;ecord. Let.this test
be 1pplied to the proceedings. of the chancery court under consideration..
It is admitted, and the fact appears from the tecord, that at the
time these proceedings were 'instituted, Elias Magruder was living
and continued to live for seven years afterwards. And ashe had alife
estate in the premises in controversy, and the contingency on which
the estate was to vest in his heirs, being possible, during his life, the
land was not subject to. sale under the will. It could only be sold
on the devisee's failure to have heirsm, which could not occur before
his decease.
The petition' asks an order to sell the remaining part of the tract
called George's Adventure,'a part of it ha6ving been devised, containing about 356 acres. The sale of the 100 acres, now in contest,
was not asked and indeed could not be,'as the tract at that time was
not liable to be sold. The decree ordered, " that the real estate in
the said will dir&ted to be sold should be sold." Now this decree
-could only apply to the 356 acres named in the~petition, for the reason" that the sale of that tract only was prayed: for, and it was e
only tract, at that time, which the will authorized to be sold. Inthe
language of the. decree, it was the real estate directed 'by the will to
be sold.
To construe the decree as embracing the 100 acres tract, would
go beyond the prayer 6f the petition and the jurisdiction of the court.
One of the trustees named in the will was deceased, and the other,
being insolvent,, hgad been removed by the Orphan's Court. The
substitution of a new trustee gave to .him no power beyond the
slpecial order of the court. Under the statute it seems not to have

JANI UARY TERM,, 1844.

-59

Shriver's Lessee v, Lyun et al.
been the practice -ofthe court to appoint a trustee generally, to carry
into effect the will: but to point out,-by a specific decree, what he
shall do and the mode of doing it. His duties being limited by the
decree, he is made the instrument of the court, having no discretion
or power under the will.. Consequently, in his decree'the chancellor required the trustee to give security, and directed him what notice
should be given, and' in what manner the sale should be made.
This mode of executing the act was clearly'within the discretion of
the chancellor, specially given to him in -the close of 'the above section.. The rule was made 'and ratified by the chancellor. A deed
was executed by the trustee to the purchaser, and nothing further
was done until in June, 1812, when he trustee made a second
report, that in pursuance of the above decree, after giving public
notice, cche had sold to Walter Slicer, the remaining part bf the real
estate of Zachariah Magruder, deceased, consisting of the 100 acres
devised to Elias Magruder."
Now it is clear that this sale was' not made in pursuance 'of- the
decree. ' Neither in the petition nor in the decree was the tract of
This proceeding then, by the
100 acres named or referred to.
trustee, was without authority. rt could derive' no sanction from
the'decree. From the record, itwould seem that there had been
no continuance of the cause for sx years, and no' step taken in
it. The second' report is then made by the trustee as stated. This
report was ratified and confirmed ccunless by a giveh day cause to
the contrary should be shown," of which public notice was given.
No cause being shown, there was a final- ratification 6f the sale on
the 22d 'of February, 1813. A the time of this sale it is admitted
that Elias Magruder was deceased, without heirs, in the language of
the will, clawfully begotten of him in wedlock." And here a question arises whether the above sale can be treated as a nullity.
That the trustee was not auth6rized to sell by the decree has
already been shown. It would seem, however, from the form -of
his report, thathe assumed to act only in virtue of the decree.
Does the ratification of the sale bring it within the rule, which
applies to a case where the court has jurisdiction, but has committed'
errors in its proceedings. Had the court jurisdieion'of the tract of
land in controversy. At the time the decree was entered, that tract
was no more subject to the power of the court than every other tract
in the county. The devisee was in possession, having a life-estate
in it subject to become a fee-simple on his having heirs lawfully

60

SUPREME COURT.
Shriver's-Lessee v. Lynn et a].

'begotten by him.. : He had no notice of the proceeding, and was in
.no sense a pa y to it. The petition did not pray for the sale of this
land- In fact that proceeding can, in no point, of view, be considered as "authorizing the-sale: by the trustee. The validity of the
sale then must rest upoh the, fact of its having lieen made by the
trustee, and sanctioned by the"chihcelloi. • There would seem to ]be
nb ground for doubt on this point.
.The chancellor is authorized to proceed- ih a summary mode, under
the statute, for the sale of land, in the predicament of the above tract,
after the decease of the devisee, withoit heirs. But he can only
proceed on te application ofpers6ns interested. Here was no-such
"application for tle sale of this land. The sale bein'g with6ut authority,. the ratification of it bf-the cotrt must be-considered as having
ben.given inadvertently. -If given deliberately and on a full examination-of all the facts, still it must be regarded as an unauthorized
proceeding. There was mo case befo-e the court-nothing on which
its judgment could rest.
No court, howeve great may be its dignity, can arrogate to itself
the power of disposing'of real estate without the forms of law. It
must obtain jurisdiction of the thing in a legal mode: A decree
without notice, would be treated as. a nullity. And so must a sale
of land be treated,-which has been made witbout an order or decree
-ofthe court, though it may have ratified the sale. The statute under
which the proceeding -was had requires a decr ;' at least such has
been it uniform construction.,
This view being decisive of the title of the lessor of the plaintiff,
it is not necessary to coisider the other questiolis in the- case.
The judgment'of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
ORDER.

"This cause came on to be heard on the-transcript of-the record
from the Circuit Cour of-the United States for the district of MIaryland, and was argued by counsel. 'On consideration whereof, It is
now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of
the said Circuit Court in this' cause:be, and the same is hereby
affirmed with costs.

