JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

581

Ladiga v. Roland et al.

some of their circumstances, were reasoned out and supported upon
the broad and general principle that the assets of the testator were in
no case bound for the debts contracted after his death by the persons
whom he had authorized to continue his trade, but the rights of such
new creditors were exclusively confined- to the funds embarked in
the trade and to the personal responsibility of the party who continued
it, whether as trustee, or as executor, or as partner-unless, indeed,
the testator had otherwise positively and expressly bound his general
assets. The case of Pitkin v. Pitkin, 7 Conn. Rep. 307, is, however, (as has been already suggested,) directly in point. There, the
testator, by his will directed, "that all his interest and concern in the
hat manufacturing business, &c., as then conducted under said firm,
should be continfed to operate in the same connection for the term
of four years after his decease, &c." The court there held, after
referring to the cases in 10 Ves. 110, and 3 Madd. Rep. 138, that
the general assets of the testator were not liable to the claims of any
creditors of the firm who became such after the testator's death; and
that such creditors had no lien on the estate in the hands of the
devisees under the will, although they might eventually participate
in the profits of the trade. There was another point decided in that
case, upon which we wish to beunderstood as expressing no opinion.
Upon the -whole, our opinion is, that the decree of the Circuit Court
dismissing the bill ought to be affirmed with costs.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the -District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, It is now here ordered and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

SALLY LADiGA, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,. V. RIcARD Dnj;MARcus ROLAND,
AND PETER HIEFNER, DEFENDANTS.
By a treaty made between the United States and the Creek tribe of Indians,
east of the Mississippi river, on the 24th of March, 1832, it was stipulated.
1.That ninety principal chiefs of the tribe should be allowed to select one section each.

3c2

15S2

SUPREME COURT.
Ladiga v. Roland et al.

2. That every other head of a Creek fimily should be allowed to select one-half
section each; and that these tracts should be reserved from sale, for their use,
for the term of five years, unless sooner disposed of by them.
3. That twenty selections should be made, under the direction of the President,
for the orphan children of the Creeks, and divided and retained or sold 'for
their benefit as the President should direct.
In making the selections fok the orphan children, the President had no authority,
under the treaty, to choose any land embraced by the two preceding clauses.
A grandmother, living -with her grandchildren, was the head of a Creek
family, and had a right to make a selection ; and the sale of her selection under
the authority of the President was a nullity.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, under the 25th section
of the Judiciary act, from the Supreme Court of the state of Alabama.
On the 24th of March, 1832, a treaty was made between the United
States and the Creek tribe of Indians, east of the Mississippi river.
The articles of this treaty which bear upon the'present case are
as followi
"cArticle I. The Creek tribe of Indians cede to the United States
all their lands east of the. Mississippi river.
" Art. II. The United States engage to survey the said land as soon
as the same can be conveniently done, after the ratification of this
treaty, and, when the same is surveyed to allow ninety principal
chiefs of the Creek tribe to select one section each, and every other
head of a Creek family to select one-half section each, which tracts
shall be reserved from sale for their use for the term of five years,
unless sooner disposed of by them. A census of these persons shall
be taken under the direction of the President, and the selections shall
bemade so as to include the improvements of each person within
his selection, if the same can be so made, and if 'not, then all the
persons belonging to the same town, entitled to selections, and who
cannot make the same, so as to include their improvements, shall fake
them in one body in a proper form. And twenty selections shall be
selected, under the direction of the President for the orphan children
of the Creeks) and divided and retained or sold for their benefit as
the President may: direct. Provided, however, that no selection or
locations under this treaty shall be so made as to include the agency
xeserve,
" Art. II. These tracts may be conveyed by the persons selecting
the same, to any other persons for a fair consideration, in such manner
as the President may direct. The contract shall be certified by some
person appointed for that purpose by the President, but shall not be

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
,adiga

. Roland

583

et al.

valid till the President approves the, same. A title shall begiven by
the United States on the completion of the paymdnt.
" Art. IV. At the end of five years all the Creeks entitled to these
selections, and desirous of rem-ining, shall receive patents therefor
.in fee-simple from the lfnited States.
,cArt. V. All intruders upon.the country hereby ceded, shall be removed therefrom in. the same manner as intruders may be removed
by law- from other public land until the country is surveyed, and the
selections made; excepting, however, from this provision, those white
persons who have made their own improvements, and not expelled
the Creeks from theirs. Such persons may remain till their crops are
gathered. After the country is surveyed and the selections made,
this article shall not operate upon that part of it not included in such
selections. But intruders shall, in the manner before described, be
removed from the selecfiont for the term-of five years from the ratification of this treaty; or until the same are conveyed to white persons.
,cArt. VI. Twenty-hine sections in addition to the'foregoing'may be
located, and patents for the. same shall then issue to those persons;
being Creeks, to whom the same may be assigned by the Creek
tribe.
cc Art. XV. This treatylshall be obligatory to the contracting parties, as soon as the same shall be- ratified by the United States."
Sally Ladiga claimed to be the head'of a Creek Indian family, and,
as such, entitled to a reservation of land. Being ejected, she brought
an action of trespass quarre clattsum fregto try her title, in the Circuit .Qdurt of Benton county, state of Alabama, and recovered. But
the case having been carried to the Supreme Court of Alabama, the
judgment was reversed. Upoli the certificate of the Supreme Court
heing produced .inthe Circuit Court, on the second trial, judgment
was given for the defendantr; 'which judgment was shbsequently
affirmed in the Supreme Court of the state.
To review this judgment the present writ of error was brought.
The facts'of the case and ruling of the court are set forth. in the
following bill of exceptions.
Be it remembered that upon .the trial of the above entitled cause
the plaintiff claimed title .to the land in cbntroversy under and by
virtue of the treaty made.and concluded between -the United States
of America and the Creek-tribe of Indians east of the Mississippi
river, on the 24thday of March, A. D. 1832, the plaintiff introduced
the following witnesses, viz.: :Chr. A. Green, John Goodwyn, Hora-

SUPREME COURT.
La&iga-v. Roland et-al.

tio Griffin, Benjamin Pope, Thomas C. Henderson, John Bboyd,
Thomas E. Montgomery, and Matthew M. Houston, by whom she
proved substantially the following facts:
1. That said plaintiff, at the date of 'treaty aforesaid to wit, on the
24th'Mardh,. 1832, and long anterior to that period, and from thence
to the present time, was and -is the head of the Crnek.Indian family
residing in and'having an improvement upon the E half of section 2,
townshiip 14, range 8 E, &c., in the district of land subject to sale at
Mardisville, in the state of Alabama, which land is situate -inBenton
county, .and is the sime sued for in this action'.
2. That the said land at the commencement of'this suit, and ever
'sincei has been, and is worth three thousand dollars and more. That
the rents and profis of the same, since the institution of this Suit
have been worth more than two thousand dollars, That the rents and
profits have been received by defendants, who had the possession of
said land at and -lefore the commencement of this suit, and from
thence until the present time.
3. It was further proved by said witnessqs; that at no time -as
there any other Indian improvement on the said' land, and tat the
improvement and residence 'of the plaintiff alone was embraced in
said half section by the legal*lines of survey, and thht plaintia had
lived there for many years, and raised anumerous family cf children.
4. It was further proved, by -the production of the census roll
taken by order of the government of the United States, of the heads of families of the Creek tribe, in conformity with the se6ond. article
of the treaty aforesaid, that the laintiff was duly enrolled by the
agent of the United States. charged with this duty, as one of' the
heads of families belonging to the said: Creek tribe, and as entitled to
land under said tieaty-her identity being showa6 by the witnesses.
5. That in 1834, the government, by agents charged -with this
duty, located the Indians. That the formula of'location, as practised
by said agent, consisted in calling the Indians- belonging to the
respective Indian towns together, and in the pres'ence of the chiefs
and head men in the town, the agent would call over the names registered by the enrolling agent as being the heads of families in that
town. That the persons whose names were so registered would appdar and answer to their names, and their identity and residence, and'
zilso their imprqvements, would be proved, &c., 'pointed out' by the
chiefs and had men so-assembled ; and the agent would ther'deiignate by figures and letters, the land opposite the name of each re-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

'585

.Ladiga .v.,Roland et, 9l.

servee on said census roll, to Which he supposed them entitled under
the treaty.
6. That upon the, agent coming into the Tallasahahee town of
Indians, for the purpose of making the locations aforesaid, the plaintiff appeared.before him, and being identified as the same whose name
was enrolled on the census list of said town, claimed the land in dispute, on which her improvement, at the date of the treaty aforesaid,
was sifuated, and which she, then informed him she had selected as
her reservation-theie being ho other improvement, location, or conflicting claim thereto at that time. That the deputy locating agent,
who located the town to which she belonged, not regarding her' the
head of a family, by reaosbn of her children having married-and left
her, 'and none but orphan grandchildren residing with her,.-refused
to retognise her rights under the treaty, or set apart the land, so.by
her selected opposite her nahe on the roll, as in other cases. That
from the date of the treaty aforesaid, until the year 1837, she
made continual and r~peated applications to the government officers.
to assert her rights to said land, and through them to the government
itself; until,, in 1837, she was forced to leave the country and emigrate to Arkansas, by the arihed troops in the emplpy and under the
directions of 'the government. That she never had abandoned her
claim, but insisted on her right under the treaty, to enforce which this
action was brought. M. M. Houston,. who was the locating agent,
testified as to the reasons which induced him to refuse a recognition
of plaintiff's right.
The defendant' then introduced a patent or grant from, the United
States, signed by the President, Martin Van Buren, dated the 21st
day of Decemiber, 1837, which, after reciting that by virtu6 of the
treaty aforesaid of the 24th March, 1832, between the United States
and. Greek fribe of Indians, the United States agreed that twenty sections of land should be selected, under the direction of the President,
for the orphan children of said tribe, and divided and retained or sold
for their benefit, as the President might direct; nd that the President, in making such selection, had included section 2, township 14,
range 8 east, and divided the same into quarter sections; and said
tract hav ing been sold pursant to instructions, Canton, Smith., and
Heifner had become the purchasers of the south-east quarter of said
section; which, purchase had been sanctioned and approved' by the
President on,the 3d November, 1836-gave, and granted to said
Cahtoni Smith; and Heifier, the said south-east quarter, tuthem their
VoL. 1I.--74

586 .

SUPREM'E COURT.
Ladiga v. Roland et al.

heirs, &c., for ever, as tenants in common, and not as joint-tenants:
which grant being properly attested, was read to the jury. Another
patent or grant from the government of the United States, similar in
all its form to that above named, and containing like recitals, bearing
the same date and properly authenticated, conveying the north-east
quarter of said section to Richard de Marcus Roland, .vas offered and
read to the ju.ry. And this being all the testimony, the plaintiff's
counsel asked the court to charge the juryas follows:
. 1. That if they believed from the evidence that the defendants
*were in possession of the land sued for at the institution of this suit,
and c6ntinued to hold the same adversely, receiving the rents" and
profits thereof; and that if from the evidence the jury were further
"satisfied that the plainfiff, at the date of the- treaty made and concluded at the cityof Washington between the United States of America
.tnd the Creek tribe of Indians east of the Mis sisippi river, to"wit,
on the 24th day of March, 1832, was the head of. a Creek Indian
family, and that the United States enrolled her name under the provisions, of the treaty aforesaid, requiring a census to be taken, &c.,
as the head of a Creek family;. and.that said plaintiff before and at
the time of the:ratification of said, treaty, and from thence until she
was forced to leave: he country by the United States i possessed said
lands sued for, having an improvement and residence upon the same;
and if the juiy believe from-the testimony that said plaintiff did select
the-said half section, including her improvement, and, that such .selection was so made without .conflicting with the ights of any oter
Indian, or the rights or duties of the govermnent reserved, secured,
or prescribed by the treaty aforiesaid, and if the proper officers of the
government were dulynotified ofsuch selection-by the-said-plaintiff,
and that she had never forfeited her rights by a voluntary abandonment -of the lands sued for, but had been compelled by force or coercion on the part of the United States, to emigrate from the country
and leave the land, then- the plaintiff is entitled to, recover in this
action.

2. The plaintiff asked the further -charge-that underthe second
article of the said Creek treaty of the 24th March,- 1832, each head
of a Creek Indian family, after the land ceded by -said treaty had
been surveyed, was entitled, to select a half section of land so ag to
includ .their improvement, if the same cbuld be made; aid if the
jury believed from the proof that the plaintiff was the head, of a
Creekfamily, and -entitled to a selection, under the treaty, and that

JANUARY TERM, .1844.

587

Ladiga v. Roland.e-t aI.

after such survey she could selcct, and did select the half section in
dispute, and in a reasonable time notified the government of -such
selection, and had never voluntarily abandoned said land ;then plain.
tiff in such, case acquired a vested right to. said land inchoate, but
sufficient under the laws of this state, coupledwith possession, to
maintain this action, and that such right could not be defeated by the
subsequent disposition'of the same by the United States to the. defendants.
3. The plaintiff asked the court furthe'rto charge the. jury:- that
if the plaintiff was entitled -to select a half -section of land- under-the
treaty aforesaid, as the head of-a Creek family, duly enrolled as such,
and the selection could have been so made, and was so made, as to include her improvement -within the selection; that iisuch case thetreaty
itself located the plaintiff; and if the government, with-a knowledge
of such selection and location, exposed the land to sale,-or.-ieserved
'it for other purposes, such sale or disposition could not-prejudice the
right of the plaintiff. All which charges the court refused to give,
and in lieu of them charged the jury: that notwithstanding the plaintiff ;was the head of a Creek:family, duly enrolled, as such by the
authorized agent of the government; and entitled to select a half sec-tion under the second article of the treaty of the-24th March, 1832;
and that although, after the landc ceded 'by the treaty aforesaid had
been surveyed, she could have selected, and did select, 'the half sec-tion iridispute, which- included.-her, improvement,- and: of which
selection she duly notified. the government; yet the refusal of the'
locating agent to Tecognise. her right and- to set apart the land by a
designation of it opposite her name upon the rolla's, in other cases
of location, coupled with the subsequent sale and grants of the same
.land to the defendants by the jUnited States, whether right or wrong,
divested the plaintiff of all right to said land,' and vested in the defendants in this action titles paramount;. which the plaintiff-could not
.gainsay or dispute. To which.refusals of the court to give the
charges asked by the plaintiff, and to the charge given in lieu of
them by the court, the 'plaintiff excepts, and -now here tenders this
bill of exceptiods, which is signed' and sealed by the court, .andordered to 'be made a part of the rqcoid of this cause, which is ac'cordingly done.
This opiidon of the court of Benton county being, as has, been:
said, affirmed by the'Supreme Court of the state of Alabama, the -pre,-'
sent writ of error was-brought to review it.

",88

.

SUPREME COURT.
Ladiga-v. Roland et a-L

*

Cbxe, for the plaintiff in error.
Coxe referred to the treaty, (8 Laws United States, 107.7,) and
commented on the several articles of it. He then argued that the
treaty, per se, vested, a title in the plaintiff, and cited the following
.cases where the point had been decided as arising under a treaty
of 1819. with the Cherokees. 3 Yerger, 445, 452; 7 Yerger, 46;
8 Yerger, 249,.461; 6.Porter, 327, 413.
Mr. Justice BALDWIN delivered the opinion of the court.
Both parties claim the land ii -ontroversy under the United States;
in virtue-of the treaty of.Washington, made on the 24th March, 1832,
between the United States and the chiefs of the Creek tribe of- Indians. The decision ofthe Supreme .Court of Alabama was against
,the title set up by the plaintiff, the case is therefore properly brought
here under the 25th section of the Judiciary act of 1789. [The articles
.ofthe treaty are set forth in the statement of the reporter.] By anifspection of the second article it will be seen, that there are -three distinct
classes of selections to be made' from the ceded lands3 for the benefit
of the Indians," after the lands are surveyed.
1. The United States engage to allow ninety principal chiefs Io
select'one section each.
2.. And every other head' of a Creek'family to select one half section each, whichtracts shall be reserved from sale fortheiruse forth
term of five years, unless sooner disposed of by-them. A census is to
be taken of these persons, and the selections are to include.thetimprovements of each person within his selection.
3. Andtwenty sections shall be selected undei the direction of'the
President, for the- orphan, children -of the Creeks, and divided, ...etained, or sold, for their benefit, as he may direct.
By article third"these tract'may be sold by the persons selecting
them, to any persons, as the President may direct, and a title shall be
given by the United States on.the completion of the payment of-the
consideration. The fourth article stipulates, that at the end of five
years, those entitled -to these selections, who are desirous of remaining,
shall receive patents; and .by article fifth, all intruders shall be removed from these selections, for five years after.the treaty, or until the
same are conveyed to -white persons. By article sixth, twenty-pine
uections more may be located, and patents shall issue to the Creeks to
whomthe same may be assigned by the tribe. Thefifteenth articlemakes
tbe treaty obligatory on the parties, whenratifiedby the United States.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

589

Iadiga v. Rolana et al.

The engagements of the treaty then are, to allow the chiefs and
heads of families to select; for -their own use, and reserve from sale for
five years, the lands selected, that they may be sold and conveyed
with the approbation or the Presideni, and titles to be givenby the
United States, on payment of the purchase-money, and at the end of'
five years to give patents to all who are entitled to select and. desirous of remaining, and to remove intruders from their selections,
during that time, till they are conveyed to white persons.
The lands to be selected for the orphans are placed under the exclusive direction of the President, as to their location-and disposition,
and are not embraced in te third or fourth articles, which are confined to selections made by the Indians themselvesf-these are expressly
reserved from sale for five years, whereas the selectiois for orphans
may be made and the lands sold at any time the President directs.
No authority is given to the President to direct the selection of the
twenty sections for orphans, on or out of those made by.the chiefs or
the heads of families, or those sections which the tribes may assign
under the sixth article; all the lands so selected or located are placed
-

beyond the power of any offier, consistently with the obligatory engagements of the treaty on the United States. In directing the, selections for orphans, the treaty did not intend, and canmot admit of the
construction, that they might be made on lands selected according to
the first part of the second article. The provisions of the treaty were
progressive-that relating to orphans is entirely prospective. *cItis
a principle.which has always been held sacred in the United States,
that laws by which human action is to be regulated, look forward,
not backward, and are never to be construed retrospectively, unless
the language of the act should render that indispensable. No words are
found in the act which renders this odiou§ construction indispensable."
2 Peters, 434. The last clause in this article cannot have been intended to annul -or impair a title which was vdlid under the first
clause, and guarantied from intrusion under the fifth article. for five
years, unless sooner sold. -S. P. 9 Wheat. 479.
Thus taking the treaty, and applying it to the evidence given at the
trial, "the instructions prayed of the court, and those given to the
jury, it will not be difficult to decide in which party is the right of
this case.

The plaintiff cc proved substantially the following facts."
[For the
facts proved upon the trial, see the statement of the reporter..].
From the evidence it appears that the plaintiff claimed under the
3D

590

SUPREME

COURT.

Ladiga v. Roland et al.

first, and the defendants under the second clause of the second article
of.the treaty; that the plaintiff was the head of a family within the
description, and had complied with all the requisites of the treaty, had
selected the -tractwhereon her improvements were, where she resided
before, at the time of the treaty, and until her expulsion therefrom by
military force, on the frivolous pretence that she was not the head of
a family, her children having married and left her, and none but her
grandchildren lived -with her. The defendants claimed under the
second clause of the second article, relating to orphans' selections' by
two patents'dated in 1837, each for a quarter section, being the two
halves of the half section selected by the plaintiff, which patents
issued pursuant to a sale made by the agent appointed by the President, and affirmed by him in November, 1836, five months before
the expiration of five years from the- ratification of the treaty, and
while the land was expressly reserved from sale. The defendants
gave no other evidence of title.
-This sale was a direct infraction of the solemn engagements of the
United States in the treaty. Though approved by the President, if the
,plaintiff had previously selected it according to the stipulations of the
treaty, in such case the iale was a nullity, for th&want of any power
in the' -treaty.to make it. The President could give no such power,
or authorize the officers of the land-office-to issue patents on such
sales; they are as void as the sales, by reason of their collision with
the -treaty. The only remaining inquiry is into the plaintiff's title.
No other objection has been made to it, than the refusal of the locating agent or his deputy, to recognise her right, under the treaty, or to
set apart the land so located by her opposite her name on the roll,
as in other cases, solely for the reason he assigned. We cannot
seriously discuss the question,'whether 'a grandmother and her grandchildren compose a family, in the .meaning of that word in the treaty,
it must shock the common sense of all mankind to even doubt it. It
is as incomhpatible with the good faith and hbnour of the United States,
and as repugnant to the Indian character, to suppose that either party
to the treaty could -contemplate such a construction to their solemn
compact, as to exclude such persons from its protection, and authorize any officer to force her from her home,.into the wilds of the far
west. Such an exercise of power is not warranted by the compact,
and the pretext on which it was exercised is wholly unsanctioned by
any principle of law or justice.
Having a right -by the treaty to select the land of her residence;

JA.NUARY

TERM, 1844.

-591

Pollards Lessee v. Files.

having selected, dnd been driven from it by lawless 'forces, her title
remains unimpaired. She has not slept on her rights, but from 1832
to 1837 has made continuous and repeated applications to the government officers to assert her Tights to said land, and'through them
to the government itself in 1837. She has never abandoned her
claim, but has insisted on: her rights under the treaty.
In our opinion, -the plaintiff not only has a right to the land in question under the treaty, but one -whichit protects and guaranties against
all the -acts which have been done to her prejudice; and we are much
gratified to find'in the able and sound opinion of the Supreme Court
of Tennessee, on the Cherokee treaty of 1819, and the Supreme
Court of Alabama on this treaty, a train of reasoning and conclusions
which we very much approve, and- are -perfectly in accordance 'with
our opinion in this case. These cases are reported in 2 Yerger,.144,
432; 5 Yerger, 323; 5 Porter; Alabama 'Rep. 330, 427.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama is therefore reversed.
ORDER.'

This cause came on to be heard' on e transcript of the record,
from the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama, and was argued by
counsel, on consideration wherebf; It is now here ordered and adz
judged by this court, that the judgmeht of the said Supreme Court
of the state of Alabama in this cause be, and the same is hereby 'reversed with costs; and that this-causd be,'and the sameis hereby re
manded to 'the said Supreme Court of the state of Alabama, that further proceedings pnaybe had therein in conformity to the opinion of this
court, and as to law and justice shall appertain.

LESSEE OF JoHN. POLLARD, WI LIAA PoLuARD, JOHN FOWLER AN
HARRIET HIS WIFE, HENRY P. ENSIG AND PHEBE HIS WIFE, GEOR E
HU'odINS AND LOUISA 'HIS WIFE, JOSEPH CASE AND ELIZA. HIS WIFE,
PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOSEPH F. FILES, DEFENDANT.
It is the settled doctrine of the 3'udicial department of th> government, that the
treaty of 1819 with Spain ceded to the United States no territory west of the
river Perdido. It had already b~en acquired under the-Louisiana treaty.
Ia the interval betxween the Lbuisiana treaty and the time when the United

