2SUPREME

COURT.
Chapman v. Forsyth et al
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the trnscript 6f the record
from th_ Circuit Court of te United States for the eastern district
of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, It is.
now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court that the decree of the said Circuit Court, in this cause be,
and the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

JOHN L. CAPMAN, PLriNTiir, v. HENRY H.'FoRsvrH AND THOrnoS
LIMECK,MERCHANTS AND CO-PARTNERS, UNDER AND BY THE VIRM,
NAME, AND STYLE OF FORSYTH AND LuIKRiCK, DEFENDANTS.
Under the late bankrupt act of the United States, the existence of a fiduciary
debt, contracted before the passage of the act, constitutes no objection to the
discharge of the debtor from other debts.
A factor, who receives the money of his principal, is not a fiduciary within the
meaning of the act.
A bankrupt is bound to state, upon his schedule, the nature of a debt if it be a
fiduciary one. Should he omit to do so, he would be guilty of a fraud, and his
discharge will not avail him; but if a creditor, in such case, proves his debt
and receives a dividend from the estate, he is estopped from afterwards saying that his debt was not within the law.
But if the fiduciary creditor does not prove his debt, he may recover it afterwards, from the discharged bankrupt, by showing that it was within the exceptions of the act.

Tns case came up on a certificate of division from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Kentucky.
The'record was as follows:The following statement of questions and points of law -which arose
in this case, and the adjournment thereof into the Supreme Court of
the United States for decision -was ordered to be entered; to wit:
cc This was an action of assumpsit for the proceeds of 150 bales of

cotton, shipped to and sold by defendants, as the property of the
plaintiff, the defendant having been a factor," &c.

The defendant, Forsyth, pleaded he had'been duly discharged as

a bankrupt, on his own voluntary petition.
To this the plaintiff replied; the replication was demurred to, and

JANUARY TERM, 1S44.

"203

Chapman v. For.syth et. aL

upon the hearing and brgument of the demurrer, which-presented the
whole case, the following questions of law arose, and on which the
judges were opposed in opinion:1sL Could the defendant be discharged, as abankrupt, from a~y
part of his debts, on his own petition, when he was indebted, in a
fiduciary capacity, in part, within the exception in the first section
of the bankrupt law; that is,.were all persons indebted excluded,
that held and Owed moneys in the capacity of trustees, (as a class,)
from the benefit of the act,.althouuLh they owed other debts besides
the moneys held in trust?
2d. Is a commission merchant and factor, (who sells for others,)
.or indebted in a fiduciary capacity, within the act, provided he withholds the money received for property sold by him, and which property was sold on account of the owner, and the money received on
the owner's account?
3d. Whether, when the decree of discharge, and the regular certificate of being a bankrupt, have been obtained *ithout contest in the
District Court, they are conclusive and binding on all'persons named
as creditors by the bankrupt in his petition and list of creditors; and
whether a creditor, who did'not prove his debt, and which the bank-'
rupt owed said creditors in a.fiduciarycapacity, can-come into court,
and sue the bankrupt for such fiduciary debt, notwithstanding the decree of discharge and certificate, the debt having been set forth in the
petition and list as an ordinary debt, not due in a fiduciary character?
Which divisions of oliinion, at the request of the plaintifl, aie certified to the Supreme Court of the United States, for their opinion
and certificate on the three questions on which the judges of this
court were opposed in opinion.
The case was submitted upon the'Tollowing printed arguments by
Morehead, for the plaintiff, .nd Loaughborough, for the defendaht
This was an action of assumpsit for the proceeds of 150 bales of
cotton, shippedto and sold. by the defendants, as the property of the
plaintiffT the defendants having been a factor,&c.
Upon a demurrer to the replication to the plea of the-defendant
Forsyth, three questions aroseI. On the first question the counsel for Chapman does not propose
to submit argument. The only authorities,- of which he .is aware,
that bear materiallylon-the point, are the.decisions on._he circuit%,
and with them the court is famailiar.
-

204

SUPREME COURT.
Chapman v. Forsyth et al.

2. On the second question, the undersigned would remark, that
the words of the statute, c While acting in any other fiduciary capacity," would seem to have been inserted expressly to embrace all
other cases of trusts besides those specifically mentioned. A factor
with goods, and money in his hands belonging to his principal, is in
estimation of law, a trustee. Ris relation with the principal is a
fiduciary relation. The language of the act is extremely comprehensive., and it is contended that the case under consideration is within
the equity of it.
3,The opinion of the late Judge Thompson in the matter of Brown,
settles that a fiduciary creditor may or may not, at his election, come
in under the bankruptcy, and if he declines to do so, his debt is not
discharged. So at least the undersigned understands the opinion as
given in the public prints, not having seen any authoritative report
of the case.
It is submitted-that such is the true doctrine on the subject.
J. T. MoizEAD, for Chapman.
The questions presented in this case arise under the late bankrupt
law of the United States.
1. The first has already been considered in miaany of the circuits,,
and several of the members of this court have pronounced opinions
upon it..

It is contended by the counsel of Forsyth et al., that the exception in the first section of the bankrupt act, in reference to fiduciary
debts, is of such debts, not of the persons owing them, ik they owe
other debts which have not arisen from a breach of trust since the
passage of the act. In this case the.debt arose prior to the passage
of the, act. This has been held to be the correct exposition of the
act in the Ohio circuit, Matter of Lord, 5 Law Reporter, 258, in
the New York circuit by the late Judge Thompson, in the Matter of
Brown, 5 Law Reporter, 258, and in the Massachusetts circuit, in
the Matter of Tebbetts, 5 Law Reporter, 259. Decisions have
been made in other circuits, of -which the counsel have not seen
reports in print.
This question has doubtless been maturely considered by all the
members of this court, and the counsel for-'Forsyth would not hope
to exhibit any new views of the subject.
2." The debt of a commercial factor to his principal, is not an
excepted debt. These factors are of .various kinds, and the case

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

20

Chapm-an v. Forsyth et al.

does not state whether the factor, respecting whom the question is
asked, cted under an ordinary or a del credere commission; a pmt,
perhaps; worthy of consideration.
The excepted debt is one which has arisen c in consequence of a
defalcation as a public. officer, or as executor, administrator,guardian
or trustee, or whdle acting in any other fiduciary capacity." These
expressions are not appropriate to commercial affairs. ccDefalcation"
is ordinarily used to express the misapplication of the funds With
whichhe is intrusted by a public officer, or some express trustee.
Does a'comiaission merchait act in any other such fiduciary capacity
as is meant by the act? The term fiduciary is a legal; not a commercial one. It hasa comprehensive import, which may be given
to it without inchlding-a rnrercantile debt; and, aceording to the
course of trade in this country, a very common mercantile debt.
A very large proportion of the debts which have been discharged
by the courts under the bankrupt- law, are the debts of factors to
their principals. Millions have been so discharged, which will be
revived, if this court shall decide them to be fiduciary, within the
meaning of the act.
3. Upon the last point it is contended, that the -proceedings in
banlruptcy in the District Court, when in conformity to the act, are
a suit, the decision of which by the decree of bankruptcy, and the
discharge of the ipplicant, is conclusive upon the parties thereto.
who are the petitioner himself and at least all such of his creditors as
are named in his list, and to whom notrce is given.
Such is the nature of the lroceedings authorized by the act:Process is to be served upon the creditor, or a notice in writing sent
to him. In effect, the prbceeding is a suit by the debtor against his
creditors for a discharge.
It was not necessary for the applicant to have stated in his petition
the nature or origin of the debt. It was enough. that he stated- as in
this case, the name of his creditor, his residence, and the amount due
to him. See the first section of the act.
What is a fiduciary debt may, in -a given case, be a matter, of
doubt. This contest shows it. Shall an applicant, acting upon his
best lights, stating the name and residence of his creditor, .and the
sum due. to him, and expressly summoning him in, to contest, if he
chooses, be prejudiced because .he has not denominated the debt
fiduciary, when he and his counsel did not deem it to be so? Shall
the creditor thus notified lie by, and, after the adjudication of the
S

206

SUPREME COURT.
Chapman-v.,Porsyth at aL

District Court, come forward -with the objectiohi which he should
have made there?
The certificate of the District Court is made conclusive everywhere,
except in cases where there has been fraud,-or the wilfill concealment of property. Fraud is not suggested here. The expressions
of the act in conferring jurisdiction upon the District Court, and in
declaring the effect and conclusiveness of its adjudieations, are most
broad.
The District Court had jurisdiction to grant or refuse the discharge
of Forsyth. The exercise of this jurisdiction involved the consideration of the question, 'whether the existence of the debt to Chapman
was a bar to the discharge. Contest might have been made in the
District Court on that ground , and, it is contended, should have been
made.there.
The decree of discharge having been made by the District Court,
is it not to be held that -the questions now made have been already
decided between these parties, by a court of competefit jurisdiction?
P. S. LouGHBaonuGi.

Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of assumpsit for the proceeds of 150 bales
of cotton, shipped to and sold by defendants as the property
of the plaintiff, the 'defendants being facthrs. The defendant, Forsyth, pleaded that he had been duly discharged as a bankrupt, on
his own voluntary petition. A replication was filed, to which there
was a demurier.
The suit was brought in the Circuit Court for the district of Kentucky; and on the argument of the demurrer the following points
were made, on which the opinions of the judges were opposed; and
at the request of the parties the points were certified to this court.
1. "Could the defendant be discharged as a bankrupt from any
part of his debts on his own petition, when he was indebted in a
fiduciary capacity, in part, within the exception in the first section
of the bankrupt law; that is, were all persons indebted, excluded,
that held and owedmoneys in the capacity of trustees, (as a class,)
from the benefit of the act, although they owed other debts besides
the moneys held in trust'
2. "Is a commission merchant and factor, who sells for others,
indebted in a fiduciary capacity 'within the act, provided he withholds the money received for property sold by him, and which pro-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

27

Chapman v. Forsyth et aL

perty was sold on account of the owner, and the money received on
the owner's account?
3. cc Whether, when the decree of discharge and the regular certificat of being a bankrupt, have been obtained without contest in the
'district court, they are conclusiie and binding on -ll persons named
as creditors by the bankrupt in his petition and list of creditors; and
whether a creditor, who did not prove his debt, and to whom the
bankrupt was indebted in a fiduciary capacity, can come into court
and sue the bankrupt for such fiduciary debt, inotwithstanding the
decree of discharge and certificate, the debt having been set forth in
the petition and list as an ordinary debt, not due in a fiduciary character.7)

These questions are far less important than they would have been
had thebankrupt law not been repealed. But they are still important
as affecting a large-class of citizens and to a large amount.
The first section of the bankrupt law provides that, " all persons
whatsoever, residing in any state, territory, or district of the United
States, owing debts which shall not have been created in consequence
of a defalcation as a public officer, or as executor, administrator,
guardian, or trustee, or while acting in any other fiduciary capacity,"
shall, on a compliance with the requisites of the bankrupt law, be
entitled to a discharge under it.
* The debts here specified are excepted from the operation of the
act. This exception applies to the debts and not to the person, if
he owe other debts. The language is, all persons owing debts, not
of the description named, may apply, &c. Now, an indebtment by
an individual, not created as above stated, is within the provisions
of the act, although he may be under fiduciary obligation. This is
the natural import of the provision, and it is sustained by reason. It
was proper that Congress should not relieve from debts .which had
been incurred by a violation of good faith, whilst, from other obligations a full discharge to the same person should be given. But, to
have refused a discharge because the individual owed a fiduciary
debt, would, by withholding a general privilege, have superadded
a penalty to a past transaction without notice. That this consideration influenced the legislature is shown by the fourth section, which
provides, "ethat no person who after the passage of the act shall apply
trust-funds to his own use," shall be discharged. Now, if a person
who owed a fiduciary debt, was not entitled to a discharge from other
debts by thd first section, this provision was useless. A misapplication

208

SUPREME COURT.
Chapman v. Forsyth et aL

of trust-funds, as declared, covers the enumerated cases in the first
section. But, whilst the first section only withholds from the jurisdiction of the bankrupt court fiduciary debts, the fourth declares that
if such debts have been contracted subsequent to the law, the indiViduals. shall not be discharged. From this provision the strongest
implication arises, that if the fiduciary debts were contracted before
the passing of the act, the petitioner would, for other obligations,
be entitled to a discharge. Viewing then th6 first and fourth sections of the act, we are of the opinion'that fiduciary debts, contracted
before the passage of the act, constitute no objection to a discharge
of the sanie person, for other debts.
The second point *is, whether a factor, who retains the-money of
his principal, is a fiduciary debtor within the act.
If the act embrace such'a debt, it will be difficult to limit its application. It must include all debts arising from agencies; and indeed
all cases where the law implies an obligation from the trust reposed"
in the deltor. Such a construction would have left but few debts on
which the law could operate. In almost all the commercial transacti6ns of the country, confidence is reposed in the punctuality and
integrity of the debtor, and .a violatiort of these is, in a commercial
sense; a disregard of a trust. But this is not the relation spoken of
in the first section of the act.
The cases endmerated, cc the defalcation of a public officer,"
'ekecutor," cc administrator," cc guardian," or ctrustee," are not
cases of implied but special trusts, and'the "cother fiduciary capacity"
mentioned. must mean the same class of trusts. The act speaks of
technical trusts, and not those which the law implies from the contract. A factor is not, therefore, within the act.
This vie~v is strengthened and, indeed, made conclusive by the
provision of the fourth section, which declares that no "cmerchant,
banker, actor, broker, underwriter, or marine insurer," shall be entitled to a discharge, cc who has not kept proper books of accounts."
IiI answer to the second question, then, we say, that a factor, who
owes his principal money received on the sale of his goods, is not a
fiduciary debtor within the meaning. of the act.
The answer of the first question leads6 necessarilk, to the answer
of the third. For if fiduciary debts are not within the act, a discharge can in no respect affect the interest of the fiduciary creditor.
Without his consent, it is clear the bankrupt court can take no jurisdiction of his debt. And, although the bankrupt may include the

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

209

Chapman v. Forsyth et al.

debt in his schedule, and the discharge may be general, yet as the
law gave the court no jurisdiction over the debt, it is not discharged.
The fourth section provides, cc that the discharge and certificate,
when duly granted, shall, in all courts of justice, be deemed a full
and complete discharge of all debts, contracts, and othdr engagements of such bankrupt, which are provable under the act, and may
be pleaded as a complete bar," &c.
Now it is supposed that, if a fiduciary debt, within the act, be
placed upon his schedule by the bankrupt, that it is incumbent on
the creditor to preserve his right, by. showing, before the bankrupt
court, the nature of his debt. And that, consequently, should he fail
to appear after notice, he will be barred, as other creditors, by the
discharge.
The.bankrupt is bound to show on his schedule the nature of his
debts, at least so far as to enable the court to take jurisdiction of
them. If, for instance, he owe a debt as executor, and he state it
on his schedule as an ordinary debt, he commits a fraud on the law,
and the discharge cannot avail him. If, in this respect, he suppress
the truth or state *alsehood, he is guilty of fraud, and this may be
shown against his discharge,
But as the discharge operates only on debts, contracts, &c., which
are provable under the act, it is said that consent cannot include
fiduciary debts.
Such 'debts, -without the assent of the creditor, are clearly not
within the act. But if his debt shall be found on the schedule, and
he not only proves it but receives his proportionate share of the dividend, he is estopped from saying that it was not within the law.
He is a privileged creditor, and is not bound by the bankrupt law;
but he may waive his privilege. As a creditor, he has a right to
come into the bankrupt court and claim his dividend. He does not
establish his claim as a fiduciary one, but as a debt ccprovable within
the statute." And having done this, he can never controvert'the
discharge.
From these considerations, we are lead to say, in answer tp the
third question, that, unless a fiduciary creditor shall come into the
bankrupt court, prove his debt, &c., he is not bound by the discharge, but may sue for and recover his debt from 'the discharged
bankrupt, by showing that it was within one of the exceptions of the
first section.
VoL. II.-27
s2

