244

SUPREME COURT.
Griffia et anL v. Thoinpson.

courts of the United States, and that independently of that statute -no
'such joint action is by law maintainable. This was decided in
Keary v. The Farmers' and Merchants' Bank of Memphis, 16 Peters,
89. The other point, that the case falls within the prohibition of the
11th section of the.Judiciary act of 1789, ch. 20, was as fully recognised by this court in Gibson and Martin v. Chew, 16 Peters, 315.
There is nothing then in the present case which is open for argument. The judgment of the Circuit Court of the southern district
of Mississippi is, therefore, reversed, and the'cause remanded to that
court with directions to. enter a judgment for the defendants.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from. the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district
On: consideration
of Mississippi, 'and was argued by counsel.
whereof, It is now here ordered and adjudged by. this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Cout, in this cause be, and the
sanie is hereby reversed with costs, and that this cause be, and the
same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions
to that-court to enter judgment for the defendants.

Taoms Gn~ri; AND H-GH ERvn v. RoiBERTI Tkosom.
A marshal has no right to receive 'bank notes in discharge of an execution
unless authorized to do so by the plaifitiff.
If the marshal does receive such papers, the court, in thd exercise of its power
to correct the irregularities of its officer, will refuse a motion of the defendant
to have'satisfaction entered on the judgment, and refuse also to quash a second
fi-i faci-.

UPON a .certificaie of division from the judges'of the Circuit'Court
for the southern' district ofMissismppi.
This was a motion made- by Thomas Griffin and Hugh Erwin to
have satisfaction. entered on an execution offeiifacias, which issued
from the clerk's office of the court against them 'on the 4th day of
June, 1840, in favour of Robert Thompson, for the sum of $f740 02,
with interest thereon at the rate of 8 per cent. per annum, from the
i/th day of November, 18.39, until paid, together with costs. And
aiso to quash an execution offieri facW which issued against them,

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Griffinr

246

et al. v. Thompson.

in favcir of said Thompson, on the same -judgment, on the 6th day
of Noverpber, 1841.
In support. of this motion, the plaintiffi below read in evidence
first, an execution offi.fa. numbered 874,which was sued out of the
coui against Griffin in favour of Thompson on the 1st day of January,
1840, returnable on the .st Monday of May ensuing, for the sum of
$1740 ,02 and the costs, this being the aniount of a judgment recovered in, the court on the 7th day of Noyember, 1839. Upon this
execution wis'endorsed the return of the marshal, dated May the 4th,
1840, setting forth the levy of that process on the 25th of March; 1840,
on ,certain subjects of property, the execution of a forthcoming bond
by Grifm", With Ervin as surety fpr the delivery of the property-at theday and place of sale, -and the forfeiture of the bond by the failure of.
th obligors. to, comply with its condition. Accompanying this return is a receipt in these words:.
January 2d, 1840. Received on this execution one. thoasand
dollars in post-notes of the Mississippi Union Bank.
WM.M. GwiN, Marshal,
By his deputy, JNo. F. Coox.
The plaintiffs nexl produced in evidence, their forfeited forthcoming bond with the execution offier'facias sued thereo-, in favour of
Thompson. on the 4th of June, 1840, returnable to the 1st Monday
of November with the following endorsements and returns thereon,
viz. :
Endorsementon Fi.-Fa.
No security of any kind is to be taken. This execution is entitled
to a credit of one thousand dollars, paid 2d January, 1840,in Union
post-notes. See maishal'sretum onfi.fa. No. 874, toMayterm, 1840.
Wk. BmuNs, Cl'k.
(Sighed)
.TfarsqaPs Rdurn.
Made on this case four hundred dollars,' Nov. Rd, 1840. Receivea
balance of this, case, in full for costs, &c.., say five. hitndied and fifWMU. M. Gwsn, M1arshal,
teen 3- dollars.
By W. L. BATTO, Dept.
.Nov. 3d, 1840.
They then read in sullport of their motion the. execution 6ffiri
fadas sued forfi against. them in favour of Thompson, .on the 6th
day of November, 1841, which execution is the same that the plaintiff in the court below moved to quash. Uton it is the following.
endorsiement:o

'246

SUPREME COURT.
Griffin et al. v. Thompson.

Endorsement.
This execution is entitled*to a credit of $863 47, paid 3d November, 1840, on fi.fa. No. 451, to Nov. term, 1840. No security of
any ind is to be taken for balance.
W. H. BROWN, Cl'k.
Iwjtrshal's return, '9tayed by suyersedeas,' received April 1, 1842.
A. id=R_, MI.
By dept. J: S. GoocH.
They then read in evidence to the court the following receipts which
were proved to be signed by- and in the handwriting of, John F.
Cook, who, at the date of said receipts, and before, was a deputy of
William M. Gwin, marshal of the soithern district of .Mississippi,
which receipts are in the words and figures following, to wit:
Received of Thomas Griffin the sum of 'ei.ght hundred dollars, to
be applied to part -payment of an execution obtained vs him at the
Nov. term, 1839, of Circuit Court United States as security for I.
Griffin, which amount I am to credit said exection with.
December 10th, 1839.
W. M.. Giwn,.M'arshal,
By his deputy, JNo. F. Coom
,Received of Thomas Griffin the sum of two hundred dollars in
Union Bank money, to be applied'ta a certain execution I hold vs.
said Griffin, or I am to-return the said moneyto the said Griffin.
Feb'y 17th, 1840.
JNo. F. CooK.
The said sums'of $800 and $200, mentioned in said receipts, constituting the $1000 in postnnotes of the Mississi~pi Union Bank, returned by the marshal as received on 2d of January, 1840, on execution off ifacas her6in-beforereferreJ to, dted lstJanuaty, 1840.
They also iead in evidence t6 the court the following additional
receipts, to wit:
Thompson.
V.
Circuit Court U. S.fi.fa. to Nov. term. 1840.
Griffin and Surety.
Received of Thomas Griffin in the above stated case, the sum of
four-hunded dollars in Louisiana moniey.
Nov; 3d, 1840.
W. M. Gwnr., Marshal,
Per deputy, JNo. F..CooK.

Received of Thomas Griffin the sum of five hundred dollars, to

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

.247

Griffin et al. v. Tfrompso'n.

be applied to the payment of an execution, -inthehands of the marshal,,of Thompson'v. Thomas Griffin and sureties.
Nov. 1840.
W . M. Gw, Marshal,
By -his deputy JNo. F. Coox.
The said Robert Thompson then, in opposition to said motion,
read in evidence to thP .court, the judgment pronounced at its November term, 1841, quashing so niuch. of the return of the marshal
made on th6 execution of fierifacias numbered 874, whiqh issued
on Jhe 1st day of Jaiuary, 1840, as stated that he had." received on
said execution one thousand dollars in post notes of the Mississippi
Union'Bank," which judgment is in the words and figures following,
to wit:
"Robert Thompson)
V.

Thomasdriffin.
Motion by the plaintiff to quash that. art of the marshal's return
onfi.fa. No. 874, to May term, 1840, which is as 'follows: . January 2d, 1840. Received on this execution one thousand dollars' in
post notes of the Mississippi Union Bank.'
"cMotion sustained and said marshal's return on saidfi.fa. quashed; and an aliasfi.fa. ordered to May term, 1842."
The said Thompson then introduced Joseph Holt as a witness, who
being sworn, stated that he'was one of !he plaintiffs attorneys of,
record, Who: obtained the said judgment of $1740 02 against said
Thomas Griffin, at the November term," 1839, of-the court; and that
as the attorney of record of the said plaintiff, .(Robert Thompson,) he
had full authority to collect-said judgment, and to control the -executions which might issue thereon; that supposing the 'execution 'on
said judgment when issued would come into the hands of the* said
cJno. F.-Cook;" deputy m~rshal ;- he had a conversatin with him
a short time after the judgment was rendered, say some time in the
month of November, 1839, in.which -he notified the said Cook distinctly, that good money would be required to be collected on said
judgment, and that he must receive no other kind of money on the
execution, when it should come into his hands. 'That he saw said
Cook several times during the ensuing winter, but that he (Cook)
never mentioned to him that he had made any collection on said
judgment. That the first knowledge or intimation witness had of
thexeceipt of the $1000 in post-notes of the Mississippi Union Bank,

24S

SUPREME POURT
Griffin et aL V. ThQmpson.

mentioned m the return of the said Cook on th execution as collected 2d January, 1840, was in the monh of May, 1840, when going
into the marshal's office at Jackson, Mississippi, he found the said
execution had just been r6turned, with the receipt of the $1000, in
post-notes of the Mississippi Union Bank, endorsed thereon as aforesaid.
Witness at once refused to receive said post-notes from the marshal,
in part satisfaction of said.execution, and-has ever sine refused, and
still refuses to receive them. Witness further stated, that at the time
,referred to, (May, 1840,) said post-notes had greatly depreciated in
value, and were not worth more than fifty cents to the dollar, and
.that on the 11th of February, 1840,'said post-notes were worth but
seventy-five cents to the dollar. That.he immediately entered a
motion to quash said return of the said deputy marshal, (Cook,) which
motion was sustained by the court at its November term, 1841. Witness further stated that in a cbnversation he had held with said
Thomas Griffin, he (Griffin) had stated that the'$800 mentioned in
said receipt; dated 10th December, 1839, and the $200 mentioned in
said receipt, dated 17th February, 1840, constituang together the
$1000 returned is made .on .2d January, 1840i in "post-notes of the
Mississippi Union Bank," were paid by him to said John F. Cook,
deputy marshal as aforesaid, at timaes mentioned in the said receipts
respectively, in post-notes of the said Mississippi Union Bank. It was
also in proof that, on the 10th day of Dec~mber, 1839, the post-notes
of the MissisaippiUiiion Bank were current in the state of Mississippi,
aid were gexeially received by the sheiffs and marshal unless instructions to the contrary were gfven by plaintiff or their attorneys.
It was also admitttL that Griffin had no actualnotice of the instrucions given by the ploaintiff's attorney in this case to said John F.
Cook, deputy marshal. This was all the evidence offered ,either in
support-or in oppositionto the plaintiff's motion. Whereupon on the
question whether satisfaction should bp entered on said execution of
frrifaias,which was sued out on the 4th of June, 1840, in favbur
of said Robert Thompson v. Thomas Griffin 6nd Hugh Ervi for
the sam of $1740 02 with interest and costs as aforesaid; and' also
on the question whether said eiecution offierifacis which was sued
out against the said Griffin and.Ervin on the 6th of November, 1841,
should " be quashed, the judges were opposed in opinion, and the'
questions were ordered, to be certified to thUs court for decision.
The cause vaq argued by ienderson for Griffin, the defendant in

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

249

Griffin et al. v. Thompson.

the original suit below, who had made the motion to have satisfaction
entered on the judgment and to quash the secondfterifacias; and by
la-rison and Holt for Thoinpson, the plaintiff below.
Henderon, for plaintiffi.
This was a motion in the court below to have saisfaction- entered
on a certain execution- against the plaintifts, in, the- motion which
issued against them on 4th June, 1840; and to have a subsequent
execution quashed, 'which was issued'on the same judgment, 6th
Nov. 1841, and after -said judgment wa wholly satisfied, as the
plaintiffs in the motion' allege.
The first execution issued 1st ranuary, 1840, for $1740 02, returnable to May term, 1840, which the marshal retunea4 bonded,
and with a credit in these words:
"January 2, 1840. Received on this execution one thousand
dollars in post-notes of the Mississippi Union Bank."
After the return, viz., 4fA June, 1840, the plaintiff sued out another execution, on which is endorsed by the-clerk:
c'This execution is entitled tc- a credit of one thousand dollars,
paid 2d Jan'y, 1840, in Union post-notes." *

This execution, returned to Nov. term. 1840, bears the jLarshal's
endorsement, as follows:
" Made on this case four hundred dollars, Nov. 3, 1840. Rec'd
balance of this case in :full, for costs, &c., say five hundred and
fifteen 3 0 dollars. -Nov. 3, 1840."
On 6th'Nov. -1841, notwithstanding the previous satisflaction, so
made and ieturned, another execution issued, credited only by
$803 47, paid 3d November, 1840.
This "constitutes the plaintiff's case in the motion" though some
receipts and statements of account were presented, -substantially in
accordance with the foregoing returns of the marshal.
The defendant in the motiop then exhibited a judgment of Noember term, 1841, of the court below, quashing so much of the marshals- return on the first execution, as denoted the receipt of $1000
Union post-notes, on 2d Janiary, 1840, which judgment was entered,
on the now defendant's motion, with-the court's order for-the execution, which subsequently issued, of 6th Nov. 1841.
The attorney of the plaintiff in the execution (the defendant in this
VOL. H.-39

250

SUPREME COURT.
Grifin et al. "v. Thom'pson.

m6tion)'testified, that in November, 1839, he informed Cook, deputy
marshal,. that "cgood money" would. be required.
That'he mew nothing of the collection of -the Uiiion Bank notes
till in May, 1840, and he then refused"to receire them.
Thatin May, 1840, these notes were down to fifty cents in the
dollar, and, on 17th February, 1840, they were worth but'seventy.
five cents to the dollar.
Record stafes it was.in proof these n6tes were current 10th Dec.
1839, and that the defendants in the 'execution (plaintiff's in this
motion) knew nothing of plaintiff's instruction-to Cook, the deputy
marshal.
On the case so presented, the court below divided in opihion,
whether or iot the-execution of June 4, 1840, should be discharged
.as. against the defendants therein; and that issued against them of
November 6, 1841, quashed.
The sole question presented by the record is, Does the record in
it proofs show the defendants, in the 6xecutions which issued on
January 1, 1840, and June 4, 4840, lawfully paid and discharged
them.? For if-so, the:mbtion in te court below should: be sustained:.
. The record 'presents no case of the'marshal 'assuming to settle a
laihtiff?s debt, without a writ authorizing him,
No case of a false return of the execution.
No case of a sheriff's assuming to discharge an execution by an
offset of his own debt to the defendant in execution.
No case of taking promissory notes in discharge of an execution.
No case, in our opinion, of the sheriff having seized, or received
anyrthing, in satisfaction .ofthe execution, which the law did not authorize him, in his, discretion, to receive -n 'discharge of the writ.
We biake- no question against" the adjudged 'cases upon such and
si.milarfacts.

.Nor shall we contend, if this motion was against the marshal to
-pay the'plaintiff in execution-in lawful coin, he could resist the mo.
tion, by showing, he had received, in' satisfaction of the execution
of the defendant, copper coin, or unlegalized foreign coin, or bullion,
or Treasury notes of the United States, or bank-notes of the states.
But the first question is, Are not. state' bank-notes a good tefider,
if n'ot objected to? All our state courts uniformly decide they are,.
and so decided this court in 10 Whdat. Rep. 347; idem, Gwin v..
Breedlove; decided at this term.
And bank-notes certainly conmitute good and lawful payment; if

JANIU-ARY TERM, 1844.

.251

Griffin et a]. v. Thompson.

received ; and the effect of-such payment cannot, for cause of'depreciation of the notes before redeemed, or the -like, be avoided, and the
original demand resorted to; as if promissory notes only had been
received. All our tate courts decide this-principle continually, and
so in Faigland. Burroughs's Rep. 457.
These principles of tender and.payment in bank-notes, as between
debtor and creditor, have never been- questioned. Copper coin,
Treasury notes, and bank-notes, are the greater part of our currency;
and as all society use them as currency, as the law recognises and,
legalizes their circulation, debtors may lawfully tender them in payinent, and creditors may lawfully recei re them; though not legally
bound to do so.
The marshal is the plaintiff's agent, wlib,-by his execuion, may
receive payment of the plaintiff's debt. He who may lawfully receive payment, may. have, lawful tender of payment made to him.
What sophistry can plausibly maintain, that a tender of bank-'notes
to the principal, and not objected to, is a good tender; or payment
in such notes fo the principal is a good payment; and yet the li6
tender, and like paymenti is not- equally. good, when 'madeto the
agent?
But it is said in this case, the principle forbid the marshal to-rel o
ceive bank-notes. Admit the .fact thus; it is also idmitted in the
record, the defendant in execution, who, tendered and paid his banknotes to the marshal. was ignorant of plaintiff's instruction ;-and we
maintain this fact can only avail the plaintiff in executionas between
himself and the marshal, who may have disregarded his'instruction.
See decision,.Gwin v. Breedlove.
But the marshal's return of satisfaction of the exdoution in -banknotes, in no state of case, as against the debtor in exkuti6n, can be
treated as a nullity; and so I understand the imtimation of the court
in th case of Gwin v. Breedlove.
But the propf in this dase is not, as in the case of Gwin v. Breedlove, that specie would be required of the officer- on the bontrary,
the inference is irresistibly otherwise. The testimony of plaintiff's
attorney for the.execution is, that in November, 1839, he told Cook,
the deputy, that cc goo d money -would be required.?' And it is in
proof also, that this bank paper was current.--was cgood" -as late
as 10th December, 1840, and no proof it was depreciated before
17th February, 1840, being one anud a half months after its payment;while the historical fact.is, the bank did"not suspend specie payments

252

SUPREME COURT.'
Griffin et,aL v, Thompson.

till 22d March, 1840. The payment of these notes on executibn
w".2d January, 1840.
It is in proof, too, that much.of the remaining amount due by this
execution was paid in bank-notes of the state of Louisiana.
Why then has not the plaintiff.in execution "ought to have execution for the 'vhole amount of the judgment? Why, but -that he
has regarded- the Louisiana bank-notes c good money" within the
meaning of his instructions.
We contend, too, the plaintiff adopted this payment of $1000 on
the first execution of 1st Janyary, 1840, by issuing his 2d execution,
of 4th June, 1840, with a credit endorsed of the $1000 previously
paid. The bttomey proves he knew the payment of this $1000"in
May, 1840; and in June following he issued his second execution,
adopting the' paiment by way of credit;
This was-after-he had told the sheriff he would not receive it, and
the legal presumption must be, he I ad changed his purpose, and
that .the dlerk but obeyed his instructions in proceeding to collect the
remainder by.s further execution.
This court,.as matter of evidence, are bound to regard this act as
prma fade the act of the party, and-a subsequent ratification of-he
previous payment. In conformity-with this. legalaspectof.the proof,'
the balance, due is returned, fully.satisfied on'the 2d execution, 3d
November, 1840. • One year afterwards, November. term; 1841, a
motion was made and suqtained,..not against the marshal, but ex
parte against Griffin, to -eradicate and annul-to his prejudice a pay"
ment made by him twenty-two months before on executions returned
finally satisfied one year before. Griffin is not shown to have had
any notice'of that motion,, and is first admonished -in April, 1842, by
another execution, that his paynients were unsatisfactory to the plain.
tiffz. If then the rule of iaw was, as the plaintiff in"execution insists,
-viz.: that a defendant in execution can make no safe piyment of the,
execution-to the sheriff in bank-notes, thoughthe sheriff V~e content
to receive them,, unless-the plaintiff shall approve such payment as a
discharge of the defendant; -yet the rigour of such a rule should, in'
,common and equal justice, require.thd plaintiff to notify his objection
to the defendant, so soon at least as the return of the execution shall
advise the plaintiff of the manner of its payment. Here the plaintiff
slept upon his collection of the defendant, implying his approval, (if'
such 'approval as to the defendant be necessary,) without notice to
the defendant, of any exception for nearly t-o years after execution,

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

253

Griffin et aL v. Thompson.

evidencing the objecionable payment was returned; and the plaintiff admits he knew the fact. Must defendants in execution, though
not required by the. sheriff,. always pay in -specie, or be subject to
traps of ihis sort for'ever after, or how long after?
We consider this case is not governed in any degree by. the pro-.
cess act of Congress, of May 19, 1828. The motion in this case
now pending, and the motion and judgment therein rendered in the
court below, to quash the marshal's return on the execution of January 1st, 1840, are predicated on no statute of Missippi, nor.in conformity toany established rule of proceedings, or.of decisions. They
are.motions of first. impression -pursued- upon general common law
principles. In this view of the subject, F notice the case in 5 How-.
ard, 624. The facts in .thatease present no proper analogy to this.
There the sheriff was also the, defendant. Hence, beside- other.in-.
consistencies of his case, he could not avail, himself of our position.
that, as defendant, he paid the sherifl, ignorant that the plaintiff entertaihed objections to the currency in which payment was made. He,
in fact, could not 'pay himself. It is only by this explanation of -ihe
case that the decision can be sustained. The language of the court,
then, that " the return was -not,a legal return, and the plaintiff was
not boufid by it, unless he had agreed to receive such money or notes
in paynaent," is language only properly predicable of a controversy
between the plaintiff and the sheriff, or as in that case against the
defendant too, he being the sheriff.
This court, in the case of Gwin v. Breedlove, in referring to the:
above case in 5 Howard, are not unddrstood to mean more by the
reference than to show the case not then applicable as a precedent;
While it is submitted, as. a fair conclusion, whether the principles
adopted in the case of Gwin v. Breedlove do not go to show, this
court would not extend tle decision of that case beyond its pec.uliar
facts.
This cburt, in Gwin v. Breedlove, again declarp, as in 10 Wheat.,
that payment in bank-notes is good, unless objected to. And they
apply the declaration -of this rule in a case where payment was to the
marshd in bank-notes, .on execution, where-it was in proof that, asbetween the marshal and plaintiff in execution, he had been forbidden to redeive bank-notes; and the integrity of the rule must come
to this, or it is no rule as to payments made on execution.
Such payment, received without objection by the sheriff, (who
Undoubtedly has the right to receive payment,) must have some re-

Y

-

254

SUPREME COUR.T.
Griffin et a].

v. Thomnpson.

cognition in law, or it is a nullity. And if such paynient is a nullity,
it is so, whatever the form of return. A payment, therefore, of an
execution in bank-notes, with a return cc satisfied," will, of' course,
not prevent the plaintiff from pursuing the defendant with further
executions, if he can show that such payment was- made in banknotes; for such payment, if gpod at all, is good for itself, and not
made good or bad according as the. sheriff may report the facts in his
return. If it can ever be good, it is only so because it is a discharge
lawfully made of the defendant's debt.
The reasoning of the court in Gwin v. Breedlove, we think, shows
that sich payment is. a good. and valid payment, and discharges the
debtor in execation, if received without objection by the sheriff; and
that such4 payment, though not binding the plaintiff in his demand
against the sherhY does bar him from further process against the defendant.
The rule of law is, that whatever the sheriff may lawfully take in
discharge of an execution' must bar the plaintiff from further execution vs. the defendatt, though plaintiff get nothing from the sheriff.
12T. R. 207; 4"Mas.'R. 403; 7 T. R. 428; 2 Lord R. 1072.
When a 'heriff seizes -goods to satisfy an execution, he cannot
compel the'plaintiff to receive'the goods or property in kind, (except
in cases of extent;) and though he waste the goods, the defendant is
discharged. Either plaintiff ordefendant in e7ecution may controvert,
with' the sheriff, the truth of his return.
The sheriff is estopped by his own'return. The sheriff cannot be
heard to testify in disproof of his own return. 3 Howard, 68.
And,' qzure-Is not the rule universal,, that the plaintiff' as to
the defendant in',execution, is-bound -and precluded by sheriff's
return?
Now, it is in proof; by return on the second execution, of 4th
June, 1840, that the marshal received $515 30, as balance in full of
debt and cost. Whilst this remains true and uncontradicted, what
pretext has tli'plaifitiff for furiher exejution against the defendant?
If the balance of the, case, in full, for costs aiid all, have been received -by the marshal on the execution, what right has the plaintiff
further against the defendant?
And this execution an4 its return have not been complained of;
have not been quashed: or in any way set aside. If it stands, there-fore, for any'evidence,, it is evidence, full and complete,.to discharge
the defendant,- as sought for by his motiorf in this case.

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

255

Griffin et al v. Thompson.

Harrisonand Holt for Thompson.
The motion in this case was on behalf of defendant and sureties,
to have satisfaction entered on the judgment, and the last execution
offi.fa. whi6h issued, quashed. The plaintiff resists the motion on
several grounds. As to the $800 for which zq receipt of the deputy
marshal (Cook) was produced, dated in November or early in December, 1839, it is insisted that this sum cannot be taken in part
discharge'of the execution, because it was collected before- the execution issued, and of course without warrant of law. The officer derived his power solely from the process, and acting befqre its *existence, his act was unofficial, could not be obligatory on the principal
marshal and sureties, or on the plaintiff. The following authoritids
are full to the point that money collected by an officer after the return
day of an execution is no satisfaction of it. 4 Rand. 336; 1 Bibb.
608; 5 Littel, 19; 2 J. J. Marshall, 29, 30; 5 Howard, 246. So,
in 3 Stewart and Porter, 385--388, it was held that the receipt of money
by an officer before an execution issued, was no satisfaction of theft.
fa. which afterwards came into his hands.
But it is further urged that neither the $800 received in 1839, nor
the $200 received in February, 1840, can be taken in part pay-ment
of the execution, because these sums werp collected, not in money,
but in depreciated post-notes of the Mississippi Union Bfaiilk, not only
without the assent of the plaintiff' but in direct violation of the instructions of his attorneys.
The command of the process to the officer, was that he should
cause to be made so many dollars, which in'legal estimation are gold
or. silver dollar&--the constitutional coin of the United States. The
special authority thus given, being matter of law, of which all concerned were bouid to take notice, could not be departed from to
plaintiff's prejudice, without his assent expressed or implied--neither of which is shown or alleged. This question has been settled
repeatedly, by tribunals of the highest respectability. 4 Howard, 404;
5Howard, 246, 621---624; 9 Johns. 261, 262; 1 Cowen, 46;
4 Cowen, 553; 2 J. J. Marshall, 70, 71, 2 N. Carolina Rep. 529;
Dudley's Law and Equity R. 356; Martin's L. R.N. S.:205.
Inasmuch as the execution process, and the forms of returns upon
it as existing in Mississippi are the creatures of the local laws 6f that
state, it is believed that the, decisions of her Supreme Court cited,
should be conclusive of the questions involved.

SUPREME COURT.
Griffin et al. v. Thompson.

Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This court is unable to perceive upon what principle of law'either
of the objects sought by the motion of the plaintiffs in the Circuit
Court d6uld have been accorded to them. It cannot be questioned
that the defendant in that motion was entitled to the full benefit and
operation of his executon, and thes6 were to cause to be made for
him of the -goods and chattels, lands and tenements, of his debtor, the
sum of $1740 02 of lawful money of the United-States. With his
claim thus solemnly ascertained of record, we are aware of no authority, from any source, which can compel him to commute it, or to
receive in satisfaction thereof any other thing which he shall not
voluntarily elect. But least of all should such an authority be recognised -in a quarter more fruitful than any'other of abuses in its exercise; for instance, from the will either of the debtor, or the officer
whose position would enable him in some degree to practige on both
creditor and debtor To permit either the debtor or the officer to
impose upon the creditor the receipt of depreciated paper in payment.
would' be to permit not merely a repeal of the judgment, but a violation1 a virtual abrogation indeed, of the contract on which it was
'founded; for none can fail to perceive the ihousand fraudulent
devices for profit or favour which the toleration of such a practice
would naturally call* into action to .defeat the rights of creditors.
The, courts of justice might thus be made to subserve only the purposes of dishonesty, and be transformed into engines of monstrous
wrong. It has been argued in support of this' motion, that banknoted 6onstitute. good- and lawful piayment if received; that as the
law recognises their circulation, debtors may lawfully tender them in
payment, and- creditors may lawfully receive them though not legally
bound to Ao so. FrQm these postulates it is then attempted to draw
the following conclusions: 1.. That the marshal is the plaintiff's
agent, who by the execution may receive the plaintiffs debt.
2. That he who may lawfully receive payment, may have a lawful
tender of payment made to'him. 3. That if a tender or payment of
bank-notes to the principal, not by him olbjected to, is a good tender
or payment, the like tender or payment to the agent is equally good.
•This argument, to say the least of it, is wholly untenable, 'Tis
undoubtedly true that the creditor may receive either bank-notes or
blank paper in satisfaction.of his debt, for the reason that his power
over that debt is supreme, and he may release it without payment of
any kind, if he think proper. But the fallacy of the argument here

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

"M7

Griffin et al. v. Thompson;

consists in totally misconceiving the situation and functioni of.-the
marshal. He is prop6rly the officer of the-law rather than the agent
of the-parties, and is bound to fulfil the behests of the-law; and this
too without*special instruction or admonition from any person.- If,
then, when commanded to levy a sum-of money, he make a return
that he has not done this, but has of his own mere will, substituted
for money depieciated bank-notes, hisreturn is an admission, on oath.
that he has both disobeyed his orders and transcended" his powers,.
*for legally he has no powers save those h&derive§ from the priecept
he is ordered to obey. Can it be doubted that upon application from
those whose interests are involved in the performance of his dutie,
by the. marshal, it is the right and the duty of the court in such a
case to correct the irregularities of its officer, and to compel him to
perform his duty? There is inherent in every court a power to
supervise the conduct of its officers, and the e :ecution of its judgments and process: Without this-power, courts would be wholly
impotent and.useless. The returns of the marshal in this case upon'
the final process in his hands, showing the receipt by him of depreciated bank-paper in satisfaction of that process which oraered'hini
to.collect money are held t6 be. departures from the performance of
his duty as plainly enjoined by the process itself, are deemed therefore illegal and, void, and oaight upon the application of the party
injured thereby to have. been .set aside and -annulled by the court.
In conformity -with the principles herein sanctioned, we-,therefbre
order it to be certified to the judges of the Circuit Court for the
southern district of Mississippi, that satisfaction should not be
*entered on the exedution of ferifaca which was sued-out in this
case on the 4th of June, 1840, in favour of the said Robert Thompson v. the said Thomas Griffin and ,HughVArvin, for. the, sum of
$1740 02 with interest and costs; and farther, that the execution of
fi.fa., which was sued out against the said Thbmas Griffin and Hugh
Ervin on the sixth day of November, 1841, should not be quashed;
and that the motion of the plaintiff in the Circuit Court should be
overruled
bRDER.

This cause came' on to be heard on-the ,transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of Mississippi, and on the points and questions on which the judges
of the said Circuit Court were opposed . opinion, and which were
certified to this court for its opinion agreeably to the act of Congress
VoL. II.-33
y2

2M8

SUPREME COURT.
Buckhannan et al v, Tinnin et al.

in such case made and provided, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, It is the opinion of this court, that satisfaction
should not be entered oh the execution offierifacias, which was sued
out in this case on the 4th of June, 1840, in favour of the said Rbbert
Thompson against the said Thomas Griffin and Hugh Ervin for the
sum of $1740 02, with interest and costs: and farther, that the execution off.fa., which was sued out against the said Thomas Griflin
and Hugh Ervin on the 6th day of November, 1841, should not be
quashed: and that tbe motion of .the plaintiff in the Circuit Court
should be overruled. Whereupon it is now here ordered and ad-'
judged that it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

BucKuANNA , HAGAN AND CO., FOR TE USE OF GEoio BucxwA.&zN,
PLAINTIFFS, V. WLIAM TrsNm, RALPH CAMPBELL, AND JOHN G.
ANDnEws, DEFENDANTS.
if the marshal receives bank-notes in discharge of an execution, and the plaintiff sanctions rt, either expressedly or impliedly, he is bound by it, and a motion
to quash the return ought to be refused.

THrs teasb came up on a certificate of division in opinion, from the
Circuit Court of the United States for the southem district of Mississippi.
Buckhannan, Hagm and Co. recovermd a judgment in the court
below against Tinnin, and issued afierifadas on the 16th December,
1839. A part of the money was received in bank-notes, under the
circumstances stated , in the motion to quash that part of the return,
upon which motion the judges were divided in opinion.
It was as follows
This was a motion made by plaintiff in the above entitled case, to
qquash so much of the marshal's return on an execution of fieri facias,
which issued from the clerk's office of this court, on the 16th day of
December, 1839, in favour of Buckbannan, Hagan and Co., use of
George Buckhannan, against William Tinnin, Ralph Campbell, and
John G., Andrews, for the sum of $4492 54, with interest from 23d
of May, 1839, until paid, together with costs, as is in the words and
figures following, to wit:

