LANUARY

TERM, 1844.

EX PARTE IN THE mATTER OF CHARLES

F.

SIBBALD, APPELLANT, V.

THE 'UNITED STATES.
Upon a petition so to alter a former mandate of this court, as to direct lands iRi
Florida, which had not been offered for sale under the President's proclamation, to be includedwithin a survey, as well as those lands which bad been so
offered.
Hel, That this court has no power to grant the relief prayed.

THIS case was brought up-by appeal from the Superior Court for
the district of East Florida. It was a petition, the nature of which
can be best explained by referring to the petition itself, which was as
follows:
To the honourable, the Supreme Court of the United States, the petition of Charles F. Sibbald, respectfully represents,
That, at January term, 1836, of the Supreme Court of the United
States, that the case of th6 United States, appellants, v. your petitioner, the subject-matter being on.a grant of land derived from the
Spanish government, and situated in Florida, its extent 16,000 acres,
your honourable court confirmed the entire-grant of your petitioner.
That the grant stipulated, and your honourable court decided the
right, as exercised by your petitioner, of making surveys ariywhere
in Florida; at -which decision three several surveys, as made, were
accordingly confirmed to your petitioner. Vide 10 Peters, 321.
That it being ascertained that divers interfering surveys, under valid
titles from the British and Spanish, as also some donations from the
government of the United States, would deprive your petitioner of a
large portion of the 16,000 acres as decided to belong to him, at the
January term of your honourable court, of 1838, he found it necessary
to apply to have the former mandate of the court so strengthened, or
altered, that the.surveyor of the public lands in Florida, and the judge
of the United States court there would be directed to make surveys
for such a quantity of land as that of which hue was deprived by these-.
conflicting claims 'within his former surveys.
That your honourable court (12 Peters, 488 -to 496,) heard his petition, rep-resenting "that, by the opinion of this honourable court,
he considered two points clearly settled, to wit- the first, that he
was entitled to 16,000 acres, according to the original grant; secondly,
that he had an inherent privilege to direct, or point out, where other
locations should be made, in case the other surveys made for him were
interfered with by older and good claims."

456

SUPREME COURT.
Ex parte Sibbaid v. The United States.

That your honourable court (12 Peters, 494) have directed the
application of the Missouri law 6f 1824, which, you say, " will meet
the prayer of your petition, which you feel bound to grant, for the
reasons set forth;" and, in accordance with which, a supplemental
petition was added by the counsel of your petitioner, at the suggestion
of your honourable court, referring to the Missouri law.
That, upon receiving the manjdate of the court, and examining this
law, your petitioner ascertained, that while the decree of your honourable court, confirmed and decided his rights to select. lands anywhere in Florida, he ascertained thaf this act only authorized the
entry of such refuse lands as had been offered at public sale under the
President's proclamation; and thus depriving him of the very spots
he might wish to select.
That, also, while this act would limit and confine him to such lands
as [are] surveyed,.the fact exists, that only a small portion of the
public ld in East Florida have been surveyed.
That your petitioner, therefore, is obviously debarred in the exercise of his right to select the lands decreed to him; and prays your
honourable court to order the mandate.[to be] so amended asto meet
his-case.
Yoir petitioner respectfiflly refers to the case of Smith v. United
States, 10 Peters, 334, where your honourable court says: " Should
this grant b6 .confirmed, it must. follow its tenor and purport; the
decree must affirm its validity, not merely to the quantity of land, but
-with the right of location, according to its express terms, -which gives
St. Vrain the unlimited choice of the most valuable portions of the
public lands. I would be in direct violation -of those rights, which
constitute the great-value of the claim, (which were not of the quantity of land,) to make a decree that they \vere secured to -him by the
law of nations, the treat, and acts of Congress, as inviolable, and in
the same decree to limit him in the selection of such lands in Missouri as should have been offered at public sale, without a bid beyond
the minimum price of the 'public lands. This would necessarily deprive him of the very spots to which he -would be entitled under our
decree, wherever he ,might choose to apportion them by a lawfid
survey.".
Your petitioner further represents that, in Arredondo v. The United
States, 6 Peters, 710, .your honourable court said: "Th conformity
with the principles ofjustice, and rules of equity, the court is directed
to decide all questions arising in the cause, and by a final decree to

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

457

Rhett v. Poe.

settle and determine the validity of title according to the law of natiops, the stipulations of any treaty, and the proceedings under the
same, the several acts of Congress in relation thereto, and the law and
ordinances of the government from which it is alleged to be derived,
and all other questions which may properly arise between the claimants and the'United States; which decree shall, in all cases, refer to
the treaty, law, or ordinance under which it is confirmed or decreed
against."
CHAs. F. SIBBALD.
Filed 5th March, 1842.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
On consideration of the petition filed in the above cause, it is the
opinion of this court that it has no power to grant the relief prayed.
Whereupon, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this cburt, that
this petitioiR be and the same is hereby dismissed.

ROBERT .BAUNWELL RHETT, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. ROBERT F. POE,

CASHIER OF THE BANK or AUGUSTA, DEFENDANT.(a)
Where the drawer of a bill has no right to expect the payment of it by the acceptor: where, for instance, the drawer has withdrawn, or intereepted, funds
which were destined to meet the bill, or its payment was dependent upon conditions which he must have known he had not performed, such drawer cannot claim to be entitled to notice of the non-payment of the bill.
It becomes a question of law, whether due diligence has or has not been used,
whenever .the facts aro ascertained; and therefore there is no error in the
direction of a court to the jury tht they should infer due diligence from
certain facts, where those facts, if found by the jury, amounted in,
the opinion
of the court to due diligence.
If the drawer and acceptor are either general partners or special partners in the
adventure of which the bill constitutes a pari, notice of the dishonour of the
bill need not be given to the drawer.
(a)This case, although subsequent in this volume to that of Lawrence v. McCalmont, was in fact decided before.it; having been argued at the preceding term
and held under a curf advisare vult; and the manuscript opinion in the present
case was sent for and referred to, during the progress of the argument in that
of Lawrence v. MeCalmont. The reason for stating this may be easily seen by
referring to the report of that case.

VOL. 1.-58

2Q

