UNITED STATES v. EATON.
Syllabus.

The agreement of October 20, 1880, recites that the Mastins
are endorsers on the note in question, and that they executed
the mortgage to secure the payment of that note, with others.
The endorsement of the Baer certificate by Johnson & Crawford was made after it was delivered to Baer. They did -not
endorse it at the request of the Mastin Bank or of the Mastins;
and, as before said, the Mastins were in io way parties to the
certificate. Johnson & Crawford endorsed and paid the certificate voluntarily, and, so far as appears,.without consideration. The endorsement of the $10,000 note by the Mastns; as
accommodation endorsers of it for the Mastin Bank, could not,
on the facts, operate as an endorsement by the iMastins of the
certificate of deposit. It does not appear that the Metropolitan Bank, in executing the agreement of October 20, 1880, had
ever heard of the certificate of deposit; and that agreement
operated merely as a permit bythe Metropolitan Bank to Johnson & Crawford to take a share of the proceeds of the- sale,
.under the mortgage, of the property of the Mastins.
The payment to the Metropolitan Bank of the note,' by
Johnson & Crawford as its makers, operated to extinguish the
claim and suit of that bank against, them as such makers, and
thus was of benefit to the Mastins as endorsers of the note; but
Johnson & Crawford were in no different position after the
agreement of October 20, 1880, was made, from what they
-were in before that time, for they paid voluntarily a debt as to
which they were the primary debtors. The Mastins received
nothing by reason of the agreement.

Decee,affimw.

UNITED STATES 'v.EATON,
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION IN OPINION FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF THE- UNITEP STATES FOR THE DISTRICT'OF ITA SSACHUSETTS.
No. 291. Submitted April 12,1892.-

Decided April 25, 1892.

A regulation made August 25, 1886, by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, under § 20 of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
the act of August 2, 1886, c. 840, (24 Stat. 209,) in relation to oleomargarine, required wholesale dealers therein to keep a book, and make a
monthly return, showing certain prescribed- matters. A wholesale
dealer in the article -who fails to comply with such regulation is not
liable to the penalty imposed by § 18 of the act, because he does not
omit or fail to do a thing required by law in the carrying on or conducting of his business.
There are no common law offences against the United States.
It is necessary that a sufficient statutory authority should exist for deciaring any.act or omission a criminal offence; and the statutory authority
in the present case was not sufficient.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This case comes to this court on a certificate of division in
opinion between the judges of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts.
At May term, 1888, of that court, an indictment was found
by the grand 'jury against George R. Eaton, containing two
counts. The first count alleged that on the 1st of November,
1886, and on divers days thereafter up to and until the 28th
of June, 1887, at Boston, in that district, and at a place of
* business situated thereif, the defendant was engaged in the
business, avocation and employment of a wholesale dealer in
oleomargarine, and was subject and liable to all needful regulations made by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue of the
United States, with the approval of
Secr'etary of the
Treasury, for the carrying into effect of the act of Congress
approved August 2, 1886, c. 840, (N: Stat. 209,) entitled "An
act defining butter, also imposing a tax upon and regulating
the' manufacture, sale, importation, and exportation of oleomargarine;" that, at the times PSove mentioned, said regulations were well known to the defendant, and it became his
duty to keep a book showing the oleomargarine received by
him, and from whom the same was received, and also showing
the oleomargarine disposed of by him, and to whom the same
was sold or delivered, in accordance with the regulations made
by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and approved by the
Secretary of the Treasury on August S5, 1886; and that, at
the times above mentioned, he wilfully, knowingly and unlawfully failed to keep such book showing the matters above
-the

UNITED STATES v. EATON.
Argument for Plaintiff in :Error.

stated, as required by law. The second count alleged, with
the other averments contained in the first count, that it
became the duty of the defendant to make a monthly return
to the collector of internal revenue, showing the oleomargarine received by the defendant, and from whom it was received, and also that disposed of by him and to whom it*was
sold or delivered, in accordance with said regulations; and
that, at the times above mentioned, he wilfully, knowingly
and 'unlawfully failed to make such monthly return to the
collector of internal revenue, as required by law. The defendant filed a demurrer to the indictment, alleging that it was
insufficient in law.
At the hearing in the Circuit Court on the demurrer, the
following questions arose, upon which the judges by whom
the court was held were divided in opinion; and those questions were stated and certified to this court: "First. Whether
a wholesale dealer in oleomargarine, who knowingly and wilfully fails and omits to keep a book showing the oleomargarine received by him and from whom the same was received,
and also showing the oleomargarine disposed of by him and
to whom the same was sold or delivered, as required by the
regulations made by. the Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, August
25, 1886, is liable to the penalty imposed by section 18 of the
act of Congress approved August 2, 1886, entitled ' An act
defining butter, also imposing a tax upon and regulating the
manufacture, sale, importation, and exportation of oleomargarine.' 24 Stat. 209. Second. Whether a wholesale dealer
in oleomargarine, who knowingly and wilfully fails .and omits
to make monthly returns to the collector of internal revenue,
showing the oleomargarine received by him and from whom
the same was received, and also showing the oleomargarine
disposed of by him and to whom the same was sold or delivered, as required by the said regulations, is liable to the
penalty mentioned in the first question."
Mr'. Assistant Attorney General Parker for plaintiff in
error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The sole question to .be'reviewed here•is whether Congress
possessed power to authorize the officers natned to establish a
regulation requiring wholesale dealers in oleomargarine to
keep a record of their dealings therein and to report the details of such dealings as required by the regulation quoted.
The regulation involved, which was made by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary
of the Treasury, pursuan to said section 20, is as follows:
Wholesale dealers in oleomargarine will keep a. book (Form
61) and make a monthly return on Form 217, showifig the
oleomargarine received by them and' from whom received;
also, the oleomargarine disposed of by them and to whom sold
or delivered.
It will be noticed' that this regulation when separated into
its two propositions furnishes the two grounds of the indictment set forth in the record, and, correspondingly, the two
questions which are set forth ini the certificate of division.
Form 61 provided for a record of all oleomargarine received
by the wholesale dealer, showing the date of its receipt, from
whom it was received, the amount, the manufacturer thereof,
and also the date when the same was disposed of by the wholesale dealer, to whom it was sent, the name of manufacturer and
the amount. The serial numbers of the packages were to be
stated in both cases.
-Form 17 provided for a monthly return of the same statements aid details by the wholesale dealer to the Commissioner
of Internal levenue, and a recapitulation of its contents was
to be verified by the oath of the dealer.
This rule is shown by the Department regulations to have
been made August 25, 1886 ; it was terminated by the act of
October 1, 1890 (26 Stat. 567, sec. 41, p. 621).
The oleomargarine ac defines' butter and defines oleomargarine, and places 'a special tax upon manufacturers and on
sellers of the last-named commodity, and requires payment of
a stamp duty on the same, and provides for publicity and for
supervision of the manufacture, sale and exportation thereof.
The regulation in question was duly formulated under said.
section 20 to-provide certain necessary rules for a compliance

UNITED STATES v. EATON.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

with the intent of and for the carrying out of the purposes of
the enactment.
The regulation is shown by Treasury Document of August
25, 1886, to have been made by the Commissioner with the
approval of the Secretary.
No contention appears to be made as to the needfulness of
the rule, and as it was left to the Commissioner and Secretary
to determine what was needful in the premises their decision
was final.
The analogies of the customs laws and of the laws relating to
the collection of duties upon tobacco and spirits naturally suggested the regulation adopted under the oleomargarine law,
and it seems plain that the proper and effective execution of
this law would be scarcely possible without a regulation equivalent to the one now under examination.
As the word "regulation" has a technical meaning, an
argument based'upon definitions or upon general reasoning
would be of little service.
Cases involving the exercise of executive power have, in
several instances, come before the courts, and questions of the
application and force of departmental regulations have, from
time to time, been passed upon by the judicial branch of the
government.
The scope and effect of regulittions of the departments have
repeatedly come under consideration in the Court of Claims.
Harvey v. United States, 3 C. Cl. 38, 41; .1andram'sCase, 16
C. Cl. 74, 84, 85 ; Saings Bank v. United Stats, 16 C. Cl.335,
347, 349; .Mfaddox v United States, 20 C. Cl. 193; Symonds'
Case, 21 C. Cl. 148, 152; Stotesburg v. United States, 23 C. C1.
285; BRomero v. United States, 24 C. C1. 331.
The Supreme Court, also, has been called upon to consider
and decide upon the force and application of executive regulations in several instances. KendalZ v. United States, 12"Pet.
524, 610; UnitedStates v. Eliason, 16 Pet. 291, 301; Aidridge
v. Williams, 3 How. 1, 29; Gratiot-v.- United States, 4 How.
80, 117 ; Ex parte Reed, 100 U. S. 13, 22; Smith v. -Whitney,
116 U. S. 167, £81; United States v. Syrmonds, 120 U. S.46.
In that case the court say, p. 49:

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

"The authority of the Secretary to issue orders, regulations
and instructions, with the approval of the President, in reference to matters connected with the naval establishment, is subject to the condition, necessarily implied, that they must be
consistent with the statutes which have been enacted by Congress in reference to the navy. He may, with the approval of
the President, establish regulations in execution of or supplementary to, but not in conflict with, the statutes, defining his
powers or conferring rights upon others. The contrary has
never been held by this court. What we now say is entirely
consistent with Gratiot v. United States, 4 How. 80 and Ex
parte Reed, 100 U. S. 13, upon which the government relies.
-Referring in the first case to certain army regulations, and in
the other to certain navy regulations, which had been approved
by Congress, the court observed that they had the force of law.
See also Smith v. Whitney, 116 U. S. 181. In neither case,
however, was it held that such regulations, when in conflict
with the acts of Congress, could be upheld."
The theory submitted on behalf of the -plaintiffin error is:
(1) That the regulation made by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and approved by the Secretary of the Treasury
was a proper and a "needful" regulation under the oleomargarine law;
(2) That this regulation was an outgrowth of the statute and
acquired and possessed the force of law;
(3) That the keeping of the records and the reporting of the
details of the business, supervised under the law, became, as to
the defendant, "thin g s required by law in the carrying out or
conducting of his business" (sec. 18);
(4) And that being authorized by Congress, and being formulated and promulgated pursuant to an enactment, and being
subordinate to, and in furtherance Of, the statute, and not in
conflict with it, the regulation should, under the decisions, be
sustained and the demurrer should be overruled.
.Ar. P. A. Collins for defendant in error.
Mr.JusTicE BLATCHFORD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

UNITED STATES w. EATON.
Opinion of the- Court.

Sections 1 and 2 of the act in question define -what is "-butter" and what is "oleomargarine."
Section 3 imposes special taxes of certain amounts on manufacturers of oleomargarine, on wholesale dealers therein, and
on retail dealers therein.
Section 4 imposes a penalty on manufacturers, wholesale
dealers, and retail dealers, for carrying on those respective
businesses without having paid the special tax therefor.
Section 5 provides that every manufacturer of oleomargarine
shall file with the collector of internal revenue of the district
in which his manufactory is located, such notices, invenfories
and bonds, shall keep such books, render such returns of mate•rials and products, put up such signs, affix such number to his
factory, and conduct his business under such surveillance of
officers and agents, as the Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, may, by
*regulation, require. But that section imposes -no penalty for
a non-compliance with its provisions.
Section 6 contains requirements in regard to the packing of
oleomargarine by manufacturers, and in regard to the packages in which sales shall be made by manufacturers, wholesale
dealers and retail dealers, and imposes a penalty for the violation of its requirements.
Section 7 contains requirements as tQ putting a label on each
package by the manufacturer, and imposes a penalty, for not
doing it.
Section 8 provides for collecting a tax of two -cents a pound
on the artile from the manufacturer by coupon stamps, and
applies the requirements of law as to stamps relating to tobacco and snuff.
Section 9 provides for assessing and collecting the tax wic.h.
has not been paid by stamps, and declares that such tax-shall:
be in addition. to the penalties imposed by law for the sale or
removal of the article without the payment of such tax.
Section 10 provides for an additional tax on imported oleomargarine, by stamps to be affixed. and cancelled while it is in
the custody of custom officers, and for warehousing'the article;
and it imposes a penalty for a 'violation of the section by a

681 ,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

customs officer, and a penalty for selling or offr "ig for sale
imported oleomargarine/not put up in packages 4nd stamped
as provided by the act.
Section 11 imposes a penalty for purchasing or receiving for
sale any oleomargarine not branded or stamped according to
law, and § 12 a penalty for purchasing the article or receiving
it for sale from a manufacturer who has not paid the special
tax.
Section 13 requires the destruction of stamps on packages
which have been emptied, and imposes a penalty for the failure to do so.
Section !11. provides f&r the appointment of chemists and
microscopists, and authorizes the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue to decide what articles are taxale under the act, and
what substances made in imitation or-semblance of butter, and
intended for human consumption, contain ingredients deleterious to the public health, and also provides for appeals from
the- decision of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to a
board of three officers, whose decision shall be final.
Section 15 provides for the forfeiture of packages which are
.not stamped, and of packages intended for human consumption which contain ingredients so adjudged to be deleterious
to the public health, and imposes a penalty for removing or
defacing stamps, marks or brands on packages containing
6leomargarine taxed as-provided in the act.
Section 16 contains'a provision for the export of oleomargarine to a foreign country without-the payment of tax or
affixing stamps, under regulations to be made by the Commis:
sioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary
of the Treasury, and for the branding *of the exported packages; but it prescribes no penalties.
Section 17 provides that if any manufactilrer of oleomargarine defrauds or attempts to defraud the United States of the
tax thereon, he shall forfeit the factory, manufacturing apparatus, and all oleomargarine and raw material found in the'
factory and on the premises, and be fined and imprisoned as
provided in that section. •
Section 18 is as follows: "That if any manufacturer of oleo-

UNITED STATES v. EATON.
Opinion .of the Court.

margarine, any dealer therein or any importer or exporter
thereof shall knowingly or wilfully omit, neglect or refuse to
do, or cause to be donF, any of the things required'by law in
the carrying on or conducting of his business, or shall do anything by this act prohibited, if there be no specific penalty or
punishment imposed by, any other section of this act for the
neglecting, omitting or refusing to do, or for. the doing or
causing to be done, the thing required or prohibited, he shall
pay a penalty of one thousand dollars; and if the person so
offending be the manufacturer of or a wholesale dealer in
oleomargarine, all the oleomargarine owned by him, or in
*hich he has any interest as owner, shall be forfeited to the
United States."
Section 19 provides "that all fines, penalties and forfeitures
imposed by this act may be recovered in any court of competent jurisdiction;" and sectibn 20 "that the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the
Treasury, may make all needful regulations for the carrying
into effect of this act."
Section 21 is unimportant as regards this case.
It is stated in the brief of the. Assistant Attorney General,
counsel for the United States, that one of the regulations of
August 25, 1886, named in the two counts of the indictment,
and claimed to be applicable to the present case, was as follows : "Wholesale dealers in oleomargarine will keep a book
(Form 61) and make a monthly return on Form 217, showing
the .oleomargarine received by them, and from whom received;
also, the oleomargarine disposed of by them and to whom sold
or delivered ;" that that regulation covers the two counts of:
the indictment and the two questionsi.certified; and that
Form 61, so referred to, is a form for a record'in a book, and
Form 211 is one for the monthly return; and it is claimed
that such regulation was properly made under §20 of the act.
It is provided by § 41 of the act approved October 1, 1800.
c. 1244, entitled "An act to reduce the revenue and equalize
duties on imports, and for other purposes," 26 Stat. 567, .621,
"that wholesale dealers in oleomargarine shall keep such
books and render such returns in relation thereto as the Corn

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinio- of the Court.

missioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, may, by regulation, require, and such
books shall be open at all times to the inspection of any internal revenue officer or agent."
But, althiough the regulation above recited may have been a
proper one to be made, under § 20 of the act of August 2, 1886,
yet the question to be determined in this case is whether a
wholesale dealer in oleomargarine, who knowingly and wilfully fails and omits to keep the book and make the monthly
return prescribed in the regulation of the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, thereby fails and omits, within the meaning
of § 18 of the act, to do a thing "required by law in the carrying on or conducting of his business," so as to be liable to
the penalty prescribed by that section.
In this connection, it is worthy of observation that § 5 of
the act requires that every manufacturer of oleomargarine
shall keep such books, and render such returns of materials
and products, as the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with
the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, may, by regulation, require; but it imposes no penalty on the manufacturer
for any neglect to keep such books and render such returns,
nor does it impose a duty to keep the books and render the
returfhs on a Wholesale dealer in the article, such as the defendant in this case was. The question, therefore, is whether a
wholesale dealer in oleomargarine, who omits to keep the
books or to render the returns prescribed by the regulation
made under the authority of § 20 of the act, is liable to the
penalty prescribed by § 18, as having omitted or failed to do
a thing "required by law in the carrying on or conducting of
his business," within the meaning of § 18.
Regulations for carrying the act into effect, to be made
under the provisions of § 20, are necessary, as they are in various departments of the public service. By § 161 of the Revised Statutes, the head of each department is authorized "to
prescribe regulations, not inconsistent with law, for the government of his department, the conduct of its officers and
clerks, the distribution and performance of its business, and
the custody, use and preservation of the records, papers and

UNITED STATES v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

property appertaining to it;" and, by § 251,-tire Secretary of
the Treasury is authorized to make and issue instructions and
regulations to collectors, receivers, depositaries, officers and
others, and to prescribe rules and regulations, not inconsistent
with law, to be used in executing and enforcing the internal
revenue laws and laws relating to raising revenue from imports, or duties on imports, or to warehousing.
Section 20 of the act in question would be fully carried out
-by making regulations of the charafter of those provided for
in § 161 and § 251 of the Revised Statutes, without extending
the provision of § 18 so as to make a criminal offence, as a
neglect to do a thing "required by law," of a neglect to do a
thing required only by a regulation of tne Commissioner of
Internal Revenue.
It is well settled that there are no common law offences
against the United States. United States v. Hudson, 7 Cranch,
32; United States v. Coolidge, 1 Wheat. 415; United States v.
Britton, 108 U. S. 199, 206; Manchester v. .Massachusetts,139
U. S.240, 262, 263, and cases there cited.
It was said by this court in .Morrill v. Jones, 106 U. S.466,
467, that the Secretary of the Treasury cannot by his regulations alter, or amend a revenue law, and that all he can do is
to regulate the mode of proceeding to carry into effect what
Congress has enacted. Accordingly, it was hel4d in that case,
under § 2505 of the Revised Statutes, which provided that live
animals specially imported for breeding purposes from beyond
the seas should be admitted free of duty, upon proof thereof
satisfactory to the Secretary of the Treasury and under such
regulations as he might prescribe, that he had no authority to
prescribe a regulation requiring that, before admitting the
animals free, the collector should be satisfied that they were
of superior. stock, adapted to improving the breed in the
United States.
Much more does this principle apply to a case where it Is
sought substantially to' prescribe a criminal offence by the%
,'regulation of a department. It is a principle of criminal law.
that an offence which may be the subject of -criminal procedure is an act committed or omitted "in violation of 'a;

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

public law, either forbidding or commanding it." 4 American
& English Encyclopedia of Law, 642; 4 BI., Com. 5.
It would be a very dangerous principle to hold that a thing
prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, as a
needful regulation under the oleomargarine act, for carrying
it into effect, could be considered as a thing "required by
law" in the carrying on or conducting of the business Of a
wholesale dealer in oleomargarine, in such manner as to
become a criminal offence punishable under § 18 of the act;
particularly when the same act, in § 5, requires a manufacturer
of the article to keep such books and render such returns as
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of
the Secretary of the Treasury, may, by regulation, require,
and does not impose, in that section or elsewhere in the act,
the duty of keeping such books and rendering such returns
upon a wholesale dealer in the article.
It is necessary' that a sufficient statutory authority should
exist for declaring any act or omission a criminal offence; and
we do not think that the statutory authority in the present
case is sufficient. If Congress intended to make it an offence
for wholesale dealers in oleomargarine to omit to keep books
and render returns as required by regulations to be made by
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, it would have done
so distinctly, in connection with an enactment such as that
above recited, made in § 41 of the act of October 1, 1890.
Regulations prescribed by the President and by the heads
of departments, under authority granted by Congress, may
be regulations prescribed by law, so as lawfully to support
acts done under them and in accordance with them, and may
thus have, in a proper sense, the force of law; but it does not
follow that a thing required by them is a thing so required by
law as to make the neglect to do the thing a criminal offence
in a citizen, where a statute does not distinctly make the neglect
in question a criminal offence.
The questions certified are answered in the negative.

