OCTOBER TERAI, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Mv[R. JUSTICE Lm
did not concur in the opinion of the
court on the construction of section 5508 of the Revised Statutes.

MR. JUSTICE BREWER was not present at the argument, and
took no part in the decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. SANGES.
ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 1454.

Argued January 12, 13, 1892. -Decided

April 4, 1892.

A writ of error does not lie in behalf of the United States in a criminal
case.

THIS was an indictment on sections 5508 and 5509 of the
Revised Statutes, (copied ante, 264-, note,) averring that while
one Joseph Wright, a citizen of the United States, was returning to his home, after having.appeared and testified before the
grand jury of the United States, in obedience to subpoenas from
the Circuit Court of the United States, against persons charged
with violations of the internal revenue laws, and while he was
still a witness under such subpoenas, the defendants conspired
to injure and oppress him in the free exercise and enjoyment
of the right and privilege, secured to him by the Constitution
and laws of the United States, to inform the proper officers of
the United States of violations of the internal revenue laws,
and to testify under and in obedience to such subpcenas, and to
return to his home in peace and safety after so testifying, and to
be secure, safe and unmolested in his person and exempt from
violence for having exercised and enjoyed those rights and
privileges; and further averring that the defendants, in pursuance and prosecution of such conspiracy, assaulted and murdered him.
I -The defendants demurred to the indictment, "because there

UNITED STATES v. SA-NGES.
Opinion of the Court.

are n6 such rights or privileges secured to the party conspired
against, by the Constitution and laws of the United States, as
those set out in the indictment;" and "because on the facts
alleged in said indictment there is no crime or offence set out
of which the courts of the United States can take cognizance."
On October 5, 1891, the Circuit Court; -held by Mr. Justice
Lamar and Judge Newman, adjudged that the demurrer was
well founded in law, and that it be sustained and the indictment quashed. 48 Fed. Rep. 78.
This writ of error was thereupon sued out by the United
States, and was allowed by the presiding justice. The defendants in error moved to dismiss the writ of error for want of
jurisdiction.
.Xr.. Attorn,ey General and X..
tiff in error.

Solicitor Genzeral for plain-

-r. W. G. Glenn for defendants in error. Mj. A. IT Garland filed a brief in support of the motion to dismiss.
MR.JusTicF GuAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The jurisdiction of this court is invoked by the United
-States under that provision of the Judiciary Act of 1891, by
which "appeals or writs of error may be taken from the District.Courts or from the existing'Circuit Courts direct to the
Supreme Court" "in any case that involves the construction
or application of the Constitution of the United States." Act
of March 3, 1891, c. 517, § 5; 26 Stat. 827, 828.
But the question which lies at the very threshold is whether
this provision has conferred upon the United States the" right
to sue out a writ of error in any criminal case.
This statute, like all acts- of Congress, and even the Constitution itself, is to be read in the light of the common law, from
which our system of jurisprudence is derived. CharlesrRiver
Bridge v. ~arren*Bridge,11 Pet. 420, 545; Rice v. Railrodd
Co., 1 Black, 358, 374, 375; United States v. Carli, 105 1. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

611; -Exparte Wilson, 114 U. S. 417, 422; 1 Kent Com. 336.
As aids, therefore, in its interpretation, we naturally turn to
the decisions in England and in the several States of the
Union, whose laws have the same source.
The law of England on this matter is not wholly free from
doubt. But the theory that at common law the King could
have a writ of error in a criminal case after judgment for the
defendant has little support beyond sayings of Lord Coke and
Lord Hale, seeming to imply, but by no means affirming it;
two attempts in the House of Lords, near the end of the seventeenth century, to reverse a reversal of an attainder; and an
Irish case and two or three English cases, decided more than
sixty years after the Declaration of independence; in none of
which does the question of the right of the Crown in this respect appear to have been suggested by counsel or considered
by the court. 3 Inst. 214; 2 Hale P. C. 247, 248, 394, 395;
Rex v. Walcott, Show. P. C. 127; Rex v. Tucker, Show. P. C.
186; S. C. 1 Ld. Raym. 1; Regina v. Houston (1841) 2 Crawford & Dix, 191; The Queen v. .fillis (1844) 10 Cl. & Fin.
534; The Queen v. Wilson (1844:) 6 Q. B. 620; The Queen v.
Chadwick (1847) 11 Q. B. 173, 205. And from the time of
Lord Hale to that of Citadwicis Case, just cited, the textbooks, with hardly an exception, either assume or assert that
the defendant (or his representative) is the only party who can
have either a new trial or a writ of error in a criminal case;
and that a judgment in his favor is final and conclusive. See
2 Hawk. c. 47, § 12; c. 50, §§ 10 et seq.; Bac. Ab. Trial, L. 9;
Error, B; 1 Chit. Crim. Law, 657, 747; Stark. Crim. P1. (2d
ed.) 357, 367, 371; Archb. Crim. P1. (12th Eng. and 6th Am.
ed.) 177, 199.
But whatever may have been, or may be, the law of England upon that question, it is settled by an overwhelming
weight of American authority, that the State has no right to
sue out a writ of error upon a judgmeiit in favor of the defendant in a criminal case, except under and in accordance with
express statutes, whether that judgment was rendered upon a
verdict of acquittal; or upon the determination by the court of
a qufestion of law.

UNITED STATES v. SANGES
Opinion of the Court.

In a few States, decisions denying a writ of error to the
State after judgment for the defendant on a verdict of acquittal have proceeded upon the ground that to grant it would
be to put him twice in jeopardy, in violation of a constitutional
provision. See State v. Anderson (1844) 3 Sm. & Marsh. T51;
State v. HZrand (1845) 6 Arkansas, 169; State v. Burris (1848)
3 Texas, 118; People v. W ebb (1869) 38 California, 467; People v. Swift (1886) 59 Michigan, 529, 541.
But the, courts of many States, including some of great
authority, have denied, upon broader grounds, the right of
the State to bring a writ of error in any criminal case whatever, even when the discharge of the defendant was upon the
decision of an issue of law by the court, as on demurrer to the
indictment, motion to quash, special verdict, or motion in arrest of judgment.
The Supreme Court of Tennessee, in 1817, in dismissing an
appeal by the State after an acquittal of perjury, said: "A
writ of error, or appeal in the nature of a writ of error, will
not lie for the State in such a case. It is a rule of the common law that nor one shall be brought twice into jeopardy for
one and the same offence. Were it not for this salutary rule,
one obnoxious to the government might be harassed and run
down, by repeated attempts to carry on a prosecution against
him. Because of this rule it is that a new trial cannot be
granted in a criminal case, where the defendant is acquitted.
A writ of error will lie for the defendant, but not against him.
This is a rule of such vital importance t6 the security -of the
citizen, that it cannot be impaired but by express words, and
none such are used in" the statutes of the State. "Neither
does the constitution, art. 11, see. 10, apply, for here the punishment does not extend to life or limb. The whole of this
case rests upon the common law rule." State v. Reynolds, 4
Haywood, 110. In a similar case in 1829, the same court said:
"The court are unanimously of opinion that no appeal lies for
the State from a verdict and judgment of acquittal on a State
prosecution. The State, having established her jurisdiction
and tried her experiment, should be content. To permit appeals might be the means of unnecessary vexation." -Statev.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Hitchock, cited in 6 Yerger, 360. In 1834, the same rule was
applied, where, after a verdict of guilty, a motion in arrest of
judgment had been made by the defendant and sustained by
the court. State v. Solo ions, 6 Yerger, 360.
In 1820, a writ of error obtained by the attorney for the
Commonwealth to reverse a judgment for the defendant on
demurrer to an information for unlawful gaming was dismissed
by the General Court of Virginia, saying only: "The court
is unanimously of opinion, that the writ of error improvidently issued on the part of the Commonwealth, because no
writ of error lies in a criminal case for the Commonwealth."
Commonwealth v. Harrison, 2 Virg. Cas. 202.
The Supreme Court of Illinois, in two early cases, as summarily dismissed writs of error sued out by the State, in the
one case to reverse a judgment of acquittal upon exceptions
taken at a trial by jury, and in the other to reverse a judgment reversing for want of jurisdiction a conviction before a
justice of the peace. People v. Dill (1836) 1 Scammon, 257;
People v. Royal (1839) 1 Scammon, 557.
In 1848, a writ of error by the State to reverse a judgment
for the defendant on a demurrer to the indictment was dismissed by the Court of Appeals of New York, upon a careful
review by Judge Bronson of the English and American'
authorities, including several earlier cases in New York in
which such 'writs of error had been brought, of which the
court said: "But in none of the cases -was the question either
made by counsel, or considered by the court, whether the people could properly bring error. Such precedents are not of
much importance." People v. Corning, 2 N. Y. 9, 15. That
decision has been since recognized and acted on by that court,
except so far as affected by express statutes. People v. Carnal, 6 N. Y. 463; People v. Clark, 7 N. Y. 385; People v.
-Merrill,14 N. Y. 74, 76, 78; People v. Bork, 78 N. Y. 346.
In 1849, the Supreme Judicial Court of -Massachusetts, sp'eaking by Chief Justice Shaw, held that a writ of error did not
lie in a criminal case in behalf of the Commonwealth; and
therefore dismissed writs of error sued out to reverse judgments upon indictments in two cases, in one of which the defend-

UNITED STATES v. SANGES.
Opinion of the Court.

ant, after pleading nolo contendere, had moved in arrest of
judgment for formal defects in the indictment, and thereupon
judgment had been arrested and the defendant discharged, and
in the other the indictment had' been quashed on the defendant's- motion. Comrmonwealta v. Cummings, and Same v.
XJcGinnis, 3 Cush. 212.
In the same year, the Supreme Court of Georgia made a
similar decision, dismissing a writ of error sued out by the
State upon a judgment quashing an indictment against the
defendant; and, in an able and well considerec! opinion
delivered by Judge Nisbet, said: "The rule seems to be well
settled in England, that in criminal cases a new trial is not
grantable to the Crown after verdict of acquittal, even though
the acquittal be founded on the misdirection of the judge.
This is the general rule, and obtains in the States of our
Union. It excludes a rehearing after acquittal upon errors of
law, and therefore, it Would seem, denies also a rehearing
upon judgments of the court upon questions of law, even
when the jury have not passed upon the guilt or innocence of
the prisoner. If the effect of the judgment is a discharge,
there can be no rehearing, either by new trial or writ of error.
Indeed it may be stated, as a general rule, that in criminal
cases, upon general principles, errors are not subject to revision
at the instance of the State." "These principles are founded
upon that great fundamental rule of the common law, .Aemo
(Zebet bis vexari pro una et eadem cause); which rule, for
greater caution and in stricter vigilance o rer the rights of the
citizen against the State, has been in substance embodied in
the Constitution of the United States, thus: 'or
shall any
person be subject, for the same offence, to be .twice put in
jeopardy of life or limb.'
After observing that this provision of the Constitution could have no direct bearing upon that
case, which was of a misdemeanor only, and in which there
had been no trial by jury, the court added: "The common
law maxim, and the Constitution are founded in the. humanity
of the law, and in a jealous watchfulness over the rights of
the citizen, when brought in unequal contest with the State.
It is, doubtless, in the spirit of this benign rule of the com-

OCTOBER TER]I, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

spirit of
mon law, embodied in the Federal Constitution -a
liberty and justice, tempered with mercy- that, in several of
the States of this Union, in criminal causes a writ of error has
been denied to the'State." State v. Jones, 7 Georgia, 422, 424,
425.
The Supreme Court of Iowa, in 1856, ordered a writ of error
sued out by the State, after the defendant had been acquitted
by a jury, to be dismissed, not because to order a new trial
would be against .art. 1, sec. 12, of the constitution of the
State, declaring that "no person shall after acquittal be tried
for the same offence," (for the court expressly waived a decision of that question,) but only because of "there being no
law to authorize a writ of error on the part of the State in a
criminal case." State v. Johnson, 2 Iowa, 549.
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin, in 1864, held that a writ
of error did not lie in behalf of the State to reverse a judgment in favor of the defendant upon a demurrer to his plea
to an indictment. State v. Kemp, 17 Wisconsin, 669. The
Supreme Court of Missouri, in 1877, made a similar decision,
overruling earlier cases in the same court. State v. Copeland,
65 Missouri, 497. And the Supreme Court of Florida, in 1881,
held that the State was not entitled to a writ of error to
reverse a judgment quashing an indictment, and discharging
the accused. State v. Burns, 18 Florida, 185.
In those States in which the government, in the absence of
any statute expressly giving it the right, has been allowed to
bring error, or appeal in the nature of error, after judgment
for the defendant on demurrer to the indictment, motion to
quash, special verdict, or motion in arrest of judgment, the
question appears to have become settled by early practice before it was contested.
In North. Carolina, the right of the State has been strictly
limited to the cases just enumerated, and has been denied even
when the defendant was discharged upon a judgment sustaining a plea of former acquittal as sufficient in law, or upon a
ruling that there was no legal prosecutor; and the Supreme
Court has repeatedly declared that the State's right of appeal
in a criminal case was not derived from the common law, or

UNITED ST4TES v. SANGES.
Opinion of the Court.

-from any statute, but had obtained under judicial sanction by
a long practice; and has held that neither art. 4, sec. 8, of the
State constitution of 1876, giving that court "jurisdiction' to
review upon appeal any decision of the courts below upon any
matter of law or legal inference," nor art. 4, sec. 2T, of the
same constitution, providing that in all criminal cases before a
justice of the peace "the party against whom judgment is
given may appeal to the superior court, where the matter shall
be heard anew," gave any right of appeal to the State, but
only to the defendant. State v. fadcocek (1802) 2 Haywood,
162; State v. Lane (1878) 78 No. Oar. 547; State v. Swepspn
(1880) 82 No. Oar. 541; State v. Xfoore (1881) 84 No. Car. 724;
State v. Powell (1882) 86 No. Car. 640.
1The Court of Appeals of Maryland, in 1821,
sustained a writ
of error by the State to reverse a judgment in favor of the defendants on demurrer to the indictment, citing a number of
unreported cases decided in that State in 1793 and 1817.
State v. Buchanan, 5 liar. & Johns. 317, 324, 330. But the
same court, in 1878, refused to construe a statute of 1872, providing that in all criminal trials it should be lawful for the
attorney for the State to tender a bill of exceptions and to
appeal, as authorizing the court, on such exceptions and appeal, to order a new trial after a verdict of acquittal. Sate v.
Shields, 49 Maryland, 301.
In Louisiana, in the leading case, the court admitted that to
allow the State to bring a writ of error in a criminal case was
contrary to the common law of England; to the law of mostof the States, and to the general opinion of the bar; and the
later cases appear to be put largely upon the ground that the
practice had become settled by a course of decision. State v.
Jones (1845) 8 Rob. (La.) 573, 574: State v. Ellis (1857) 12 La.
Ann. 390; State v. Ross (1859) 14 La. Ann. 364; State v. Tay1or (1882) 34 La. Ann. 978; State v. Robinson (1885) .37La.
Ann. 673.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, from an early period,,'
occasionally entertained, without question, writs of error sued
out by the State in criminal cases. Commonwealth v. Taylor
(1812) 5 Binney, 277; Commonwealth v. Afcl]isson (1822) 8 S.

OCTOBER TERVr, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

& 1R. 420; Commonwealth v. Chutrc] (1845) 1 Penn. St. 105.
The first mention of the question appears to have been in case in which the only objection taken to the right of the
Commonwealth to sue out a writ of error was that the writ
had not been specially allowed; of which the court said:
"There is nothing in the disabling provisos of the statutes to
limit the right of the Commonwealth; and the powers of this
court, whether deduced from the common law, from the old
provincial act of 1722, or from legislation under our state colstitutions, are quite competent to the review of any judicial
record, when no statutory restraints have been imposed. It
would be very strange if the Commonwealth might not appeal
to her own tribunals for justice without the special consent of
certain of her own officers." This theory that the State may
sue out a writ of error, unless expressly denied it by statute,
is opposed to the view maintained by a host of decisions above
cited; and it is observable that such judges as Judge Thompson and Judge Sharswood were in favor of quashing writs so
sued out. Commonwealth w Capp (1864) 48 Penn. St. 53, 56;
Commonwealth v. -Moore (1882) 99 Penn. St. 570, 576.
In many of the States, indeed, including some of those
above mentioned, the right to sue out a writ of error, or to
take an appeal in the nature of a writ of error, in criminal
cases, has been given to the State by positive statute. But
the decisions above cited conclusively show that under the
common law, as generally understood and administered in the
United States, and in the absence of any statute expressly giving the right to the State, a writ of error cannot be sued out
in a criminal case after a final judgment in favor of the
defendant, whether that judgment has been rendered upon
a verdict of acquittal, or upon a determination by the court of
an issue of law. In either case, the defendant, having beer
once put upon his trial and discharged by the court, is not t(z
be again vexed for the same cause, unless the legislature, acting within its constitutional authority, has made express provision for a review of the judgment at the instance of the
government.
In the light of these decisions, we come to the consideration

UNITED STATES v. SA3YGES.

319

Opinion of the Court.

of the acts of Congress on the subject of writs of error in
criminal cases.
The appellate jurisdiction of this court rests wholly on the
acts of -Congress. For a long time after the adoption of the
Constitution, Congress made no provision for bringing any
criminal case from a Circuit Court of the.United States to
this court by writ of error. At February term, 1803, indeed,
this court, no objection being made, took jurisdiction of a
writ of error sued out by the United States to the Circuit
Court for the District of Columbia in a criminal case.
nited
States v. Simms, 1 Cranch, 252. But at February term, 1805,
in a like case, this court, upon full argument and consideration, held that it- had no jurisdictio* of a writ of error in a
criminal case, and overruled United States v. Simms, Chief
Justice Marshall saying: "No question was made in that case
as to the jurisdiction. It passed sub silentio, and the court
does not consider itself as bound by that case." United States
v. AHore, 3 Cranch, 159, 172. And it was thenceforth-held to
63e settled that criminal cases could not be brought from 'a
Circuit Court of the United States to this court by writ of
error, but only by certificate of division, of opinion upon
specific questions of law. Expar'te Kearney, '' Wheat. 38,
42; Ex _parte Gordon, 1 Black, 503; Ex parte Yarbrough,
110 U. S. 651; Farnsworth v. .Montana, 129 U. S. 104, 113;
United States v. Perrin,131 U. S. 55.
As to .each of the Territories, except Washington, the
:Revised Statutes provided that final judgments and decrees of
its Supreme Court, where the value of lhe matter in dispute
exceeded $1000, might be reviewed. by this court, upon writ
of error or appeal, in the same manner and under the same
,regulations as the final judgments and decrees of a Circuit
Court of the United States. Rev. Stat. § 702,. 1909. The
.act of June 23, 18T4, c. 469, § 3, provided that a writ 6f error
should lie from this court to the Supreme Court of the- Territory of Utah, "in criminal 'cases, where the accused shall have
been sentenced to capital punishnient, or convicted of bigamyor polygamy." 18 Stat. 254. The act of March 3, 1885, c.
355, provided, in § 1, that no appeal or writ of error should

320 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

be allowed from the Supreme Court of a Territory unless the
matter in dispute exceeded $5000; and in § 2 that the preceding section should not apply to any case "in which is
drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an
authority exercised under, the United States, but in all such
cases an appeal or writ of error may be brought without regard to the sum or value in dispute." 23 Stat. 443. At October term, 1885, this court, without objection, decided upon the
merits a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Utah by one convicted of a crime which was neither bigamy
or polygamy, nor punishable with death. But at the same
term, after argument upon its jurisdiction of a like writ of
error, the court dismissed both writs ot error, and, in answering the objection that it had taken jurisdiction of the first
writ, said: "The question of jurisdiction was not considered
in fact in that case, nor alluded to in the decision, nor presented
to the court by the counsel for the United States, nor referred
to by either party at the argument or in the briefs. Probably
both parties desired a decision on the merits." Cannon v.
United States, 116 U. S. 55, and 118 U. S. 355; Snow v.
United States, 118 U. S. 346, 354. The question whether the
provision of the act of March 3, 1885, c. 355, § 2, authorizing
a writ of error from this court to the Supreme Court of any
Territory in any case "in which is drawn in question the
validity of a treaty. or statute of, or an authority exercised
under, the United States," extended to criminal cases, was
then left open, but at October term, 1888, was decided in the
negative. Farnsworthv. .Montana, 129 U. S. 104.
The manner of bringing up criminal cases from the Circuit
Courts of the United States upon a certificate of division of
opinion has undergone some changes by successive acts of
Congress. Under the act of April 29, 1802, c. 31, § 6, whenever there was a division of opinion in the Circuit Court upon
a question of law, the question was certified to this court for
decision; provided that the case might proceed in the Circuit
Court if in its opinion further proceedings could be had without prejudice to the merits, and that no imprisonment should
be allowed or punishment inflicted, upon which the judges

UNITE

STATES v. SAKGES.
Opinion of the Court.

were divided in opinion. 2 Stat. 159; United States v. Tylr,
7 Cranch, 285; United States v. Daniel,6 Wheat. 542; United
States v. Baiy,
9 Pet. 267. By the act of June 1, 1872,
c. 255, § 1, "whenever, in any suit or proceeding" in a Circuit Court, there occurred any difference of opinion between
the judges, the opinion of the presiding judge was to prevail
for the time being; but upon the entry of a final judgment,
decree or order, and a certificate of division of opinion as
under the act of 1802, "either party" might remove the case
to this court "on writ of error or appeal, according to the
nature of the case." 17 Stat. 196. That act continued in
force only about two years, when it was repealed by the Revised Statutes. By sections 650, 652 and 693 of those statutes,
its provisions were restricted to civil suits and proceedings;
and by sections 651 and 697 the provisions of section 6 of -the
act of 1802 were .regnacted as to criminal cases. ffx parte
Tom Tong, 108 U. S. 556, 559. In United States v. .eese, 92
U. S. 214, and in United States v. Cruikhank, 92 U. S. 542,
argued at October term, 1874, and decided at October term,
1875, which were brought to this court by the United States,
by writ of error and certificate of division of opinion, after
judgment according to the opinion of the presiding judge, sustaining a demurrer to the indictment, or a motion in arrest of
judgment, it appears, by the records and briefs on file, that
the judgment below was entered and the certificate of division
made under the act.of 1872, and that no objection was taken
to the jurisdiction of this court. The exercise of jurisdiction
over those cases on writ of error is therefore entitled to no
more weight by way of precedent than the exercise of appellate jurisdiction sub silentio in the cases, above cited, of United
States v. Simns, 1 Cranch, 252, and Cannon v. United States,
116 U. S. 55.
The first act of Congress which authorized a criminal case
to be brought from a Circuit Court of the United States to
this court, except upon a certificate of division of opinion,
was the act of February 6, 1889, c. 113, § 6, by which it *as
enacted that "in all cases of conviction" of a capital crime in
any court of the .United States, the final judgment "against
voL. cxtav-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the respondent" might, on his application, be refxamined,
reversed or affirmed by this court on writ of error. 25 Stat.
6&6. The writ of error given by that act was thus clearly
limited to the defendant; and the terms and effect of the act
of June 23, 1874, c. 469, § 3, above cited, concerning writs of
error from this court to the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Utah, as well as those of the act of March 3, 1879, ,c. 176,
giving a writ of error from the Circuit Court; of the United
States to a District Court, were equally restricted. 18 Stat.
254; 20 Stat. 354.
The provisions of the Judiciary Adt of March 3, 1891,,c.
517, material to be considered in this case, are those of § 5, by
*whichappeals or writs of error may be taken from a Circuit
Court directly to this court in certain classes of cases, among
which are "cases of conviction of a capital or otherwise infamous crime," and "any case that involves the construction or
application of the Constitution of the United States;" and
those of § 6, by which the Circuit Courts of Appeals established by this act have appellate jurisdiction to review, by
appeal or writ of error, final decisions in the Districtand Circuit Courts "in all cases other than those provided for in the
preceding section of this act, unless otherwise provided by
law," and the judgments or decrees of the Circuit Courts of
Appeals are made final "in all cases arising under the criminal
laws" and in certain other classes of cases, unless questions
are certified to this court, or the whole case ordered up by
writ of certiorari,as therein provided. 26 Stat. 827,.828.
The provision of section 5, authorizing writs of error from
this court in cases of capital or otherwise infamous crimes, is
clearly limited in terms and effect (like the provision of the
act of 1889, authorizing a writ of error in cases of capital
crimes, and earlier acts, above cited) to convictions only.
Whether a writ of error by the defendant in a criminal case
of lower grade would be included in the provisions of that
section for bringing to this court cases in which th jurisdiction of the court below is in issue, or which involve the
construction or application of the Constitution of the United
States, or the validity of a law of the United States, or the

O'NEIL v. VERMONT.
Syllabus.

validity or construction of a treaty, or in which it is contended
that the constitution or a law of a State contravenes the Constitution of the United States, is not now before us for
decision.
The provision of section 6, giving the Circuit Courts of
Appeals in general' terms appellate jurisdiction of criminal cases,
says nothing as to the party by whom the writ of error may
be brought, and cannot therefore be presumed to have been
intended to confer upon the government the right to bring it.
In none of the provisions of this act, defining the alppellate
jurisdicticn, either of this court, or of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, is there any indication of an intention to confer upon
the United States the right to bring up a criminal case of any
grade after judgment below in favor of the defendant. It is
impossible to presume an intention on the part of C6ngress to
make so serious and far-reaching an innovation in the criminal
jurisprudence of the United States.
Writ of.error diemissedfor want ofjurisdiotion.

Q'NEIL v. VERMONT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF VERMONT.
No. 6. .Argued January 20,1892.- Decided April 4, 1892.

A complaint, in Vermont; before a justice of the peace, for selling intoxicating liquor without authority, was in the form prescribed by the
state statute, which also provided, that, under such form of complaint every distinct act of selling might be proved, and that the court
should impose'a fine for each offence. -After a conviction and sOntence
before the justice of the peace, the defendant appealed to the county
court, where the case was tried before a jury. The defendant did not
take the point, in either court, .that there was any defect or want of ful
ness in the complaint. The jury found the defendant guilty of 307
offences, as of a second conviction for a like offence. He was fined
$6140, being 520 for each offence, and the costs of prosecution, $497.96,
and ordered to be committed until the sentence should be complied with,
and it was adjudged, that if the fine and costs, and 76 cents, as costs of

