OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

There are no other questions in the case that call for. special
consideration. We have endeavored to consider and pass upon
all of the material ones that have been discussed by counsel
both in their brief and in oral argument at the bar. We do
not think that it has been shown that any error was committed
in the trial below which was prejudicial to the rights of the
defendant.
Judgment affirmed.

KEATOR LUMBER COMPANY v. THOMPSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 242. Argued and submitted March 25, 1892. -Decided April 4, 1892.
An objection that replications were not filed to the defendant's pleas when
the trial commenced, nor before judgment, with leave of court, comes
too late if made after entry of judgment.When a defendant is compelled to proceed with a trial in Illinois in a case
in which the issues are not made up by the filing of replications to the
pleas, and makes no objection on that ground, the failure to do so is
equivalent to consenting that the trial may proceed.
In Illinois the filing by the plaintiff under the statute of that State (2 Starr
& Curtis' Stats. 1801) of an affidavit "showing the nature of his demand
and the amount due him from the defendant" does not prevent the recovery of a larger sum if a larger sum is claimed by the pleadings and
shown to be due by the evidence.

THE case was stated by the court as follows:
Benjamin F. Thompson and Homer Root brought this action
of assumpsit against the J. S. Keator Lumber Company for a balance alleged to be due them for cutting and hauling saw-logs,
etc. The two main grounds .of dispute were: (1) Whether the
pzice for the work was limited by the contract in question to
$3 per thousand feet of saw-logs cut and delivered into the
boom limits of the Black River, Wisconsin, without extra
charge, or whether the plaintiffs, in addition to the above
price, were entitled to be paid for the driving or delivery of
the logs into said boom limits; (2) whether the plaintiffs had

KEATOR LUMBER CO. v. THOMTSO.
Statement of the Case.

not overcharged the defendant in the scaling and measurement
of the logs.
With the declaration was filed an affidavit by plaintiffs
under the statute of Illinois, providing that "if the plaintiff in'
any suit upon a contract expressed or implied for the payment
of money, shall file with his declaration an affidavit, showing
the nature of his demand and the amount due him from the
defendant, after allowing to the defendant all his just credits,
deductions and set-offs, if any, he hall be entitled to judgment as in case of default, unless the defendant, or his agent or
attorney if the defendant is a resident of the county in which
the suit is brought, shall file with his plea an affidavit stating
that he verily believes he has a good defence to said suit upon
the merits to the whole or a portion of the. plaintiff's demand,
and if a portion, specifying the amount (according to the best
of his knowledge and belief )," etc. 2 Starr' & Curtis' Stat. Ill.
p. 1801, 1 37, ยง 36.
The defendant filed 'a plea in abatement, and, subsequently,
pleas of non-assumpsit and set-off; the latter being for an
amount exceeding that sued for by the plaintiff. With these
pleas the defendant filed an affidavit of merits in conformity
with the above statute.
The parties, by written stipulation, waived a jury and agreed
that the case be set for trial any day not earlier than March
28, 1888. Under this stipulation the plaintiffs had it set for
trial on the day just named.* The defendant, on that day, requested a postponement of the trial until.-the arrival of its
Wisconsin counsel, who had had sole charge of the preparation
of the defence, and also because of the absence of its principal
witness. The 'court ruled that unless the defendant showed
legal grounds for a continuance, the trial should proceed forthwith. The defendant then entered a motion for continuatice
based upon affidavit as to what the absent witness would
state. The plaintiffs offering to admit upon the trial that the
witness, if present, would testify as set forth in the affidavit,
the court overruled the motion for continuance, and held that
the trial must proceed forthwith. To this action of the court
the defendant excepted. Thereupon, the trial was commenced

OCTOBER TERI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

on the 28th of March, 1888, in the absence of the defendant's
Wisconsin counsel, who, however, arrived before the conclusion
of the trial, which continued during the 29th and 30th of
Mvarch. On the last-named day, but before the trial was concluded, the plaintiffs, withput notice to the defendant or its attorney, and without obtaining leave from the court, filed with
the clerk replications to the defendant's pleas.
On March 31st, 1888, the court made a general finding of the
issues for the plaintiffs, and assessed their damages at $15,568.99, for which amount judgment was entered against the defendant. To this judgment the defendant excepted on the
ground that it was excessive in amount.
Xr. James K. Edsall for plaintiff in error submitted on his
brief.
J/'. James O'_Neill for defendant in error.
.Afiller-was with him on the brief.

.AXr. John .

Mkif. JusTicE HARLA N, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The principal assignments of error have nothing of substance
in them. When the plaintiffs agreed to admit upon the trial
that the defendant's absent witness would testify as stated in
the affidavit filed for a continuance of the case, and the court
thereupon ruled that the trial should proceed, attention was
not called to the fact that replications had not been fied to
the first and third pleas, and judgment ivas not asked upon
those pleas for want of such replications. Nor did the defendant, before judgment, move for a new trial upon the ground
that its first and thirI pleas were unanswered at the time the
tfial began. The filing of replications to those pleas, during
the progress of the trial' and without leave of the court, :was,
of course, improper aid irregular. But it must be presumed
that the fact of their having been so filed -was known to the
defendant before the trial was concluded, or beforu the judgment was entered. Besides, the judgment was under the control of the court during the term; and if it had been made to

IKEATOR LUMBER CO. v. THOMPSON.
Opinion of the CoUrt.

appear that the defendant was unaware, prior to the entry'of
judgment, that replications .to its first and third pleas were put
on file during the progress of the trial, it i~ay be that the
court would have set aside the judgment. It appears. only
that the replications were not on file when the trial commenced, not that their being filed'during its progress was unknown to the defendant before the trial was concluded. The
*defendant was bound to know, when the court ordered the
parties to proceed with the trial, that replications had not been
filed to its first and third pleas. - It should then have asked for
a rule upon the plaintiff to file replications. Its failure to do
so was equivalent to consenting that the trial, so far as the
pleadings were concerned, might be commenced. The objet
tion that replications were not filed when the trial commenced, nor before judgment, with leave of the court, came
too late after judgment was entered. In -elsey v. Lanib, 21
Illinois, 559, the Supreme Court of Illinois said : "If the defe'ndant has filed his plea, and the other party fails to reply
within the time required .y the rules of the court, he has a
right to judgment by default against the plaintiff, but until he
obtains such default, the pleas cannot be considered' as confessed by the plaintiff. It is the default which gives the right
to consider and act upon the pleas as true. In this case no
such default was taken. When the parties submitted the case
to trial by the court, without a jury by consent, it had the
effect of submitting the case to trial on the pleadings, as if
there were proper issues -formed, and the court will hear evidence under all the pleas presenting a legal defence, precisely
as if the allegations of such pleas had been formally traversed.
This is the fair and reasonable construction to be given to such
agreements. But it is otherwise, where the -party is compelled
to proceed to trial, without the issues being formed in the case.
There the act is not voluntary, and no such intendment can be
made." The defendant here was compelled to proceed withthe trial, but' no objection was made by ii t a' trial because
the issues were not fully made up. See also Bunker v. Gren,
48 Illinois, 243; Beesley.y. Hamilton, 50 Illinois, 88; Barnett
v. Graf 52 Illinois, 170.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

It is objected that the damages awarded to the plaintiffs are
excessive in that their affidavit, filed with the declaration,
shows the amount claimed, as of August 16, 1887, when the
action was commenced, was only $13,943.23, whereas the judgment was for $15,568.99. Allowing interest upon the firstnamed sum up to the date of the judgment, the damages given
exceed the amount claimed in the plaintiffs' affidavit by more
than one thousand dollars. But the ad darnnaum was twenty
thousand dollars, and the bill of exceptions states that "the
plaintiffs also introduced evidence tending to show that the
amount now [then] due and owing from the defendant to
the plaintiffs for the matters and causes of action aforesaid is
$15,568.99." It does not state what this evidence was, nor does
it appear that the defendant objected to evidence showing an
indebtedness on its part in excess of the sum claimed in the
plaintiffs' affidavit. Besides, the affidavit, though no part of
the declaration itself, was a statutory pleading, which might
have been amended upon such a suggestion. Healey v. Chainley, 79 Illinois, 592; ]McKenzie v. Penfteld, 87 Illinois, 38.
The only purpose of the affidavit is to entitle a plaintiff to
judgment as in case of default unless defendant shall file an
affidavit of merits with his pleas, and in case of such default
the plaintiff's affidavit may be taken as _prima facie evidence
of the amount due; but even this is discretionary with the
court. KYern v. Strasberger, 71 Illinois, 303. No point was
directly made in the court below, either before or after judg-ment, that the plaintiffs were limited in their recovery to the
sum named in their affidavit. An objection of that character,
made for the first time in this court, ought not to be
entertained.
No other questions presented by the record are of sufficient
importance to be considered.
Judgment affirrned.

