OCTOBER TERM, 1891. '
Statement of the Case.

PENDLETON V. RUSSELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
iRo.'236. Argued and submitted March 24, 1892. -Decided

April 18, 1892.

Four children bf S. H. P., deceased, recovered judgment in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Tennessee
against a life insurance company, a corporation of New York, on a
.policy insuring the life of the deceased, to which judgment a writ of
error was sued out, but citation issued against only one of the plaintiffs.
On this the company gave a supersedeas bond, securing the sureties by
pledging or mortgaging some of its property. Proceedings were then
taken in the courts of New York, under direction of the Attorney General of that State, which resulted in the dissolution of that corporation,
and the appointment of a receiver of its property, who, by directions of
the court, appeared in this court and prosecuted the writ of error in
order to release the pr9perty pledged.
After sundry proceedings
the judgment of the Circuit Court was eventually reversed, and the case
was remanded to the Circuit Court. A new trial was had there, but
without summoning in the receiver, who did not appear, and judgment
was again obtained against the company. This judgment was filed in
the proceedings in New York as a claim against thd assets of the company in the hands of the receiver, and the claim was disallowed by the
highest court of that State. Held, that the appearance of the receiver
in this court for the purpose of securing a reversal of the judgment
below and the release of the mortgaged property gav to the Circuit Court
in Tennessee no jurisdiction over the case, after the dissolution of the
corporation, which could bind the property of the company in the hands
of the receiver, or prevent the receiver from showing that the judgment
was invalid because rendered against a corporation which had at the
time no existence, and possessed no property against which the judgment
could be enforced.
THE

court stated the case as follows:

The facts out of which the present case arises, briefly
stated, are as follows: On the 14th of July, 1870, the Knickerbocker Life Insurance Company of New York, f6r a stipulated
annual premium of $364.60, issued a policy for the sum of ten
thousand dollars on the life of Samuel H. Pendleton, payable
to the claimants on his death. By its terms, the failure to
pay the annual premium on the days designated, or to pay at

PENDLETONT v. RUSSELL.
Statement of the Case.

maturity any note, obligation or indebtedness given for the
premium, rendere*d the policy void. The first premium was
paid. The secbnd premium, falling due on the 14th of July,
1871, was not paid. For it the assured drew two drafts on
parties in New Orleans and gave them to the agent. of the
company, one a sight draft, for $44.50, which was paid,, the
other for $325, payable three months after date,-which was
presented to the drawees for acceptance, and afterwards, on its
maturity, for payment, but it was neither accepted nor paid.
The assured having died, an action was brought in Septem-.
ber, 1875, by the claimants- his children - upon the policy,
against the insurance company, in a state court of Tennessee,
to recover the amount of the insurance. On motion of the
company, the action was transferred to the -Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Tennessee. The
cause was there tried, and, in MIay, 1881, a judgment was
recovered by ihe claimants for $15,115. To review the judgment a writ of error from the Supreme Court of the United
States was sued out by the company, and a supersedeas bond
given in the sum of twenty thousand dollars. To secure the
sureties on that bond the company mortgaged certain of its
property situated in Brooklyn, New York, to the amount of
fifteen thousand dollars, and assigned to them a mortgage for
six thousand dollars on property in Jersdy City. Upon the
writ of error a citation was.issued, but by'some oversight or
inadvertence both th writ and citation were directed to and
served only upon dne of. the four defendants in error. Whilst
the cause. was pending in the 'Supreme Court of the United
States upon this writ 'of error, an action was brought in the
Supreme Court of New York by the attorney general of the
State, in the name of the people of New York, against the insurance company to dissolve the corporation and forfeit its
corporate rights, privileges and franchises, and, on the 29th
of December, 1882, a judgment to that effect was rendered,,
dissolving the company and forfeiting its corporate privileges,
rights and franchises, and appointing Charles H. Russell
receiver of the property of the corporation. Soon afterwards
the receiver ascertained the pendency of the cause in the
VOL. CXLIV-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Supreme Court of the United States, and also the execution
of the supersedeas bond, the mortgage of the property of the
insurance company in Brooklyn, and the assignment of the
mortgage on property in Jersey City, by way of indemnity of
the sureties for their liability upon the bond. He reported the
facts to the court whose officer he was and obtained authority
to employ counsel to argue the cause upon the hearing on the
Writ of error in the Supreme Court of the United States.
Counsel was accordingly retained for that purpose, and argument was had by him in 1884, and in January, 1885, that
court rendered judgment reversing the judgment of the Circuit Court and awarding a new trial. 112 U. S. 696. But,
according to its customary practice, it retained the mandate
until its adjournment. Whilst thus retained the claimants
filed a petition for reargument, which was sent to the counsel
employed by the receiver. Before the petition was disposed
of, it was discovered that the writ of error and citation were
issued to only one of the four parties who were plaintiffs below,
and the Supreme Court, of its own motion, entered an order
requiring the party to the writ of error to show cause why the
decision should not, for that reason, be vacated and- the writ
of error dismissed. Thereupon the receiver, by petition, stating to the court his ignorance, until that time, of the proceedings in question, applied for an amendment, reciting the
incumbrance-upon the property and the mortgage made, and
the assignment of another as indemnity to the sureties, and
thereupon the court made an order amending the writ of error
and citation so as to include the names of the other three
claimants, but not otherwise changing the record as to parties,
upon condition that the other claimants have their day in
court by the allowance of a reargument. This conditioh was
accepted by counsel on both sides, and the case was reargued,
after which the judgment was again reversed and a new trial
ordered, and a mandate was issued pursuant to the original
decision. 115 U. S: 339.
With the exception of securing counsel for the argument in
the Supreme Court, the receiver took no part in the conduct
of the defence in this cause, or in any subsequent proceedings,

PEN IDLETON v. RUSSELL.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

beyond directing that the mandate of the Supreme Court,
issued upon its judgment of reversal, be sent to the lower
court. He did not exercise any other control over the action
than as mentioned. The mandate was filed with the clerk of
the Circuit Court for the Western District of Tennessee in
December, 1885, and in pursuance of it the former judgment
was set aside, and thereupon the case was entered on the calendar for a new trial. The receiver was not substituted as.I
party to the action nor was he served with any process what.ever, and on January 25, 1886, the claimants took judgment
by default against the insurance company for the sum of
$17,560.12. They then filed a certified copy of the judgment
with the receiver, basing a claim upon it, for its amount, to
share to that extent in the funds of the dissolved corporation
in the custody of the receiver. The claim was rejected by
the receiver, but, by the direction of the court, was sent to a
referee to determine its validity; and he reported, substantially, the facts stated above, upon which he found that the
judgment was without jurisdiction, so far as the assets under
the control of the court were concerned; that it had no binding force except as against property discoverable in Tennessee; that the claim presented was not a legal. charge and was
not entitled to a distributive share of the assets of the company. The report of the referee was confirmed by the Supreme Court at special term, but its order to that effect was
reversed by the general term of the Supreme Court, and an
order made that the receiver allow the claim as valid against
the assets of the company and pay the same in due course of
administration of his trust. From that order the receiver
appealed t6 the Court of Appeals of the State, and that court
reversed the order of the Supreme Court at general term and
confirmed the order of the Supreme Court at special term.
106 N. Y. 619. Its judgment having been remanded to the
Supreme Court of the. State, it was there entered, and from
this judgment,'thus entered, the cause is brought to this court
on writ of error.

.r.

A. WalZker Otis for plaintiffs in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

ir. J. A. Dennison for defendant in error submitted on his
brief.
2MR, JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The only question presented for our determination is
whether the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Tennessee, rendered on the
25th of January, 1886, was valid as a claim against the estate
of the dissolved insurance corporation in the hands of its
receiver, to -be allowed in the distribution of its assets. The
Court of Appeals, in affirming the order of the Supreme
Court of New York at special term, dhsallbwing the claim,
held that-the judgment was invalid, and placed its decision
on the ground that the United States Circuit Court had not,
at the time, jurisdiction of the defendant. The error alleged
is that the court, in this ruling, failed to give that faith and
credit to the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United
States to which it was entitled. It is well settled that the
judgments and decrees of a Circuit Court of the United
States are to be accorded in the State courts the same effect
as would be accorded to the judgments and decrees of a
state tribunal of equal authority. It is within the jurisdiction of this court to consider and determine that question,
that is, whether such effect was given in any particular case,
whenever properly presented. But in determining that question this court must, in the first instance, consider whether
the Federal court had jurisdiction to render the judgment or
decree to which, it is contended, due effect was not given, for,
as a matter of course, the jurisdiction of every court is open
to inquiry when its judgments and decrees are produced in
the court of a State, and it is there sought to give them
effect.
Looking at the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United
States, we are satisfied that the ruling of the Court of Appeals
was correct. That judgment purports to be against the insurance company, but that company, at the time, had no legal

PENDLETON v. RUSSELI
Opinion of the Court.

existence.' It had been dissolved and its franchises, rights
and privileges declared forfeited by a decree of the Supreme
Court of New York, in a proceeding brought by the attorney
general of the State, in the name of the people, and a receiver
appointed of the effects of the corporation. The judgment
was therefore no more valid against a non-existing corporation than it would have been if rendered for a like amount
against a dead man. The receiver was not substituted in
the place of the dissolved corporation; no process or citation
was issued by that court to bring him before it, nor any proceeding taken for that purpose. Nor would such a proceeding have.had any effect, for, the corporation having expired,
the suit itself had abated. It ceased to be a pending suit;
and if it were otherwise, the receiver could not take oharge of
any proceeding in a foreign jurisdiction bycommencing an
action, or defending an existing action, without the express
authority of the court, whose officer he was, so as to bind any
property or effects in his hands as receiver. Boot4 v. Clak,
17 How.322; Reynolds v. Stockton, 140 U. S.254.
The only measures he took, by the authority of that court,
were to employ counsel to argue a pending case in the Supreme
Court of the United States, brought there to review a judgment rendered in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Western District of Tennessee against the corporation.
-When appointed receiver he found that case pending in the
S~upreme Court upon writ of error to review that judgment
against the corporation, and also that the company had mort
gaged a portion of its property and assigned a mortgage
which it held.of other property, together amounting to twenty.
one thousand "dollars, to indemnify the sureties on a supersedeas bond given on suing out the writ of error. The
judgment of reversal was rendered, not upon any substitution
of the receiver, but upon the record as it stood in that court.
By the reversal the incumbrances upon the property of the
corporation were removed. The "ernittiturbeing sent to the
court below, the judgment against the' corporation was set
aside as it stood on the records of that court. The case was
then in the position of an ordinary action against a defunct

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

corporation, and the connection of the receiver with it there
ended. -He did not make himself a party to the record from
the fact that he may have sent the remittitur from the Supreiae Court of the United States to the Circuit Court and
had it filed there. He could not have become a party, or in
any way have bound the corporation in the foreign jurisdiction, without the express authority of the court which appointed him. Nor did his employment of counsel, by such
authority, to argue the case in the Supreme Court of the
United States, operate to make hhn a party, or substitute him
in the case as a representative of the corporation. The counsel was permitted to appear in that court because of the
incumbrances upon property in its hands created by the
mortgages given by the insurance company before its dissolution as security to the sureties on the bond. His relation
to the property in his hands, in trust for the creditors of the
corporation, rendered it his duty to call the fact of such incumbrances to the attention of the court and ask permission
to employ counsel to argue the case, and thus, if possible, to
free the property from .the charges; but when that was
accomplished, and the remittitur was sent to the court below,
his connection with the case ended. What was done here is
no more than what is -frequently allowed to persons who, as
trustees, may be affected in discharging their duties by a
decision of questions involved in cases to which they are not
parties. He was allowed to present, through counsel, objections to the judgment under consideration. Had the original
judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States been
affirmed, instead of being reversed, it having been rendered
when the insurance company was in existence; it would have
stood as a valid claim against the assets of that company after
its dissolution. He did not, in any respect, bind himself as
receiver, or bind the assets in. his hands, because, after the
judgment was set aside in subsequent proceedings, the claimants recovered another judgment. He was not bound by
the second judgment, nor precluded from showing it was
invalid because rendered against a corporation which had, at
the time, no existence, or capacity to be sued, and did not

SAGE v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

possess any property against which the judgment could be
enforced.
In the condition in which the case in the Circuit Court of
the United States was left after the reversal of its judgment,
it had no jurisdiction to proceed with the action beyond entering the order under the mandate of this court. The subsequent trial and judgment were but proceedings against a
corporation which had no existence, and vitality could not
be given by them to the artificial body which had become
extinct.
Jdgment afflrmed.

SAGE v. LOUISIANA BOARD OF LIQUIDATION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 21. Argued and submitted March 4,1892.-Decided April 18,1892.

A judgment of a state court upon the question whether bonds of the State
were sold by the governor of the State within the authority vested in
him by the statute of the State under which they were issued, involves
no Federal question.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr. B. J Sage, in person, and Mr. Charles V B.ornor, for
plaintiff in error.
MTr. Walter IZ. Rogers, Attorney General of the State of
Louisiana, submitted on his brief.
MR.

JUSTICE

FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit against the board of liquidation of the'State
of Louisiana to compel it to fund certain bonds of the State held
by the plaintiff, of August 1, 1864, and to exchange them for
its consolidated bonds as provided in -the act of the legislature kno-" n as No. 3, of 1874, at the rate of sixty per cent of
their valuation. The petition of the plaintiff was filed in
April, 1881, in the Civil District Court of the parish of New

