LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

bility to others for the indirect result of such legal act. The
allegation that it was done with a fraudulent intent and purpose to obtain possession of the bridge, amounts to nothing.
If the act was legal, it is not made illegal by a mere epithet.
So far as respects the charge; that it was the understanding
and agreement that the stock should be good and valuable
stock, worth fully dollar for dollar in the public market, it is
enough to say that the contract, which is in writing and attached to the bill, contains .no such provision. There is no
stipulation whatever, expressed or suggested in that contract,
other than for the transfer of this specified stock. Ruckman
took the chances of its value.
The decision of the Circuit Court was right, and the
decree is
Aflrmed.

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 1235. Argued January 26, 27, 1892.- Decided April 4, 1892.,

A citizen of the United States, in the custody of a United States marshal
under a lawful commitment to aniswer for an offence against the United
Siates, has the right to be protected by the United States against lawless
violence; this right is a right secured to him by the Constitution and
laws of the United States; and a conspiracy to injure or oppress him inits free exercise or enjoyment is punishable under section 5508 of the
Revised Statutes.
The consolidation, under section 1024 of the Revised Statutes, of several
indictments against different persons for one conspiracy, if not excepted
to at the time, cannot be objected to after verdict.
An act of Congress, requiring courts to be-held at three places in a judicial
district, and prosecutions for offences committed in certain counties to
be tried, and writs and recognizances to be returned, at each place, does
not affect the power of the grand jury, sitting at either place, to present
indictments for offences committed anywhere within the district.
A jury in a capital case, who, after considering their verdict for forty hours,
have announced in open court that they are unable to agree, may be
discharged by the court of its own motion and at its discretion, and the
defendant be put on trial by another jury.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
A juror summoned in a capital case, who states on voir dire that he has
conscientious scruples in regard to the infliction of the death penalty for
crime, may be challenged by the government for cause.
The provision of section 858 of the Revised Statutes, that "the laws of the
State in which the court is held shall be the rules of decision as to the
competency of witnesses in the courts -of the United States in trials at
common law, and in equity and admiralty," has no application to criminal
trials.
Unless by express statute, the competency of a witness to testify in one
State'is not affected by his conviction and sentence for felony in another
State.
A pardon of a convict, although granted after he has served out his sentence,
restores his competency to testify to any facts within his knowledge.
Under section 1033 of the Revised Statutes, any person indicted of a capital
offence has the right to have delivered to him, at least two days before
the trial, a list of the witnesses to be produced on the trial for proving
the indictment; aid if he seasonably claims this right, it is error to put
him on trial, and to allow witnesses to testify against him, without having
previously delivered to him such a list; and, it seems, that the error is
not cured by his acquittal of the capital offence, and conviction of &lesser
offence charged in the same indictment.
Upon an indictment for conspiracy, acts or declarations of one conspirator,
made after the conspiracy has ended, or not in furtherance of the conspiracy, are not admissible in evidence against the other conspirators.

Four. indictaents, numbered in the record 33, 34:, 35 and 36,
on sections 5508 and 5509 of the Revised Statutes (copied in
the margin 1) were returned by the grand jury at Tanuary term,
" SEC. 5508. If two or more persons conspire to injure, oppress, threaten
or intimidate any citizen in the free exercise or enjoyment of any right or
privilege secured to him by the Constitution or laws of the United States,
or because of his having so exercised the same; or if two or more persons
go in disguise on the highway, or on the premises of another, with intent
to prevent or hinder his free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege
so secured; they shall be fined not more than five thousand dollars and
imprisoned not more than ten years, and shall, moreover, be thereafter
ineligible to any office or place of honor, profit or trust, created by the
Constitution or laws of the United States.
" SEC. 5509. If in the act of violating any provision in either of the two
preceding sections any other felofiy or misdemeanor be committed, the
offender shall be punished for the same with such punishment as is attached
to such felonyor misdemeanor by the laws of the State in which the offence
is committed."
By the laws of Texas, killing with malice aforethought, either express
or implied, is murder; murder committed with express malice is murder in

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

1890, of the'Diitrict Court for the Northern District of Texas,
sitting at Dallas in that district, against Eugene Logan, William
Williams, Verna Wilkerson and Clinton Rutherford, for conspiracy to injure and oppress citizens of the United States in
the free exercise of a right secured to them by the Constitution
and laws of the United States, and for. murder committed in
the prosecution of the conspiracy; and were forthwith transmitted to the Circuit Court.
Indictment 34 averred, in the first count, that on January
19, 1889, at Graham in the county of Young and that district,
Charles Marlow, Epp Marlow, Alfred Marlow, George W.
Marlow, William D. Burkhart and Louis Clift were citizens
of the United States, and in the power, custody and control
of Edward W. Johnson, a deputy United States marshal for
that district, by virtue of writs of commitment from a commissioner of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
district, in default of bail, to answer to indictments for an
offence against the laws of the United States, to wit, larceny
in the Indian country, within the exclusive jurisdiction of the"
United States; and that while said Johnson held them-in his power, custody and control, in pursuance of said writs, the
defendants, "together with divers other evil:disposed persons,
whose names to the grand jurors aforesaid are unknown, did
then and there combine, conspire and confederate by and
between themselves, with force and airms, to injure and oppress
them, the said Charles :Marlow, Epp Marlow, Alfred Marlow,
George W. :Marlow, William D. Burkhart and Louis Clift, then
and there citizens of the United States of America, in the free
exercise and enjoyment of a right, and because they were then
and there exercising and enjoying said right, then and there
secured to them" "by the Constitution and laws of the United
States, to wit, the right to then and there be protected by said
deputy United States marshal from the assault of " the defendants and other evil-disposed persons, "and the right then and
the first degree; the punishment of murder in the first degree is death, or
imprisonment in the penitentiary for life; and the degree of murder, as well
as the punishment, is to be found by the jury. Texas Penal Code of 1879,
arts. 605, 606, 607, 609.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

there to be held in the power, custody and control of said
deputy United States marshal under and by virtue of said writs
heretofore set forth, and the further right, while in said custody,
to be secure in their persons from bodily harm and injury and
assaults and cruelties until they" "had been discharged by
due process of the laws of the United States;" and that the
defendants, in pursuance of such combination and conspiracy,
and in the prosecution thereof, on January 19, 1889, and in
the night time, went upon the highway in disguise, and waylaid and assaulted the said prisoners, while in the power,
custody and control of said deputy United States. marshal,
with loaded shotguns, revolvers and Winchester rifles, and,
in pursuance and prosecution of the conspiracy, feloniously,
wilfully and of their malice aforethought, and from a deliberate and premeditated design to effect his death, did with those
weapons kill and murder Epp Marlow, then and there in the
peace of the United- States being; (charging the murder in
due technical form;) "contrary to the form of the statute in
such case made and provided, and against the peace and dignity
of the United States of America."
The other counts in this indictment were substantially similar, except that some of them alleged the prisoners to have
been in the custody of Thomas Collier, sheriff and jailer of
Young County, under the writs of commitment from the
United States commissioner; or alleged Alfred Marlow to have
been the person murdered; or charged one 6f the defendants
as principal and the others as accessories in the murder.
Indictments 33 and 36 were substantially like 34. Indictment 35 added John Levell and Phlete A. Martin as defendants, and (besides counts like those in the other indictments,
omitting, however, the charge of murder) containeq counts
alleging a conspiracy to obstruct the deputy marshal and the
jailer in the execution of the writs of commitment, and in pursuance thereof, an attempt to take the prisoners from the jail
on January 17, and a murder of some of them on the highway
on January f9, 1889.
Five other indictments had been. returned by the grand jury
in February and. March, 1889, and transmitted to the Circuit

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Court, against Logan, Martin and other persons, (some of
whom were not the same as in the other four indictments,)
containing charges, in various forms, like those in the added
counts in indictment 35.
At October-term, 1890, held at Graham, the following proceedings took place:
On October 21, 1890, the district attorney moved that the
-nine indictments be consolidated and be tried together, because
they charged cognate and kindred crimes, and presented parts
and phases of the same transaction. The defendants opposed
the motion, because the indictments set forth offences of different grades, and were framed under different sections of the
statutes, with different penalties and procedures. The motion
wasgranted, and the indictments were all consolidated with
No. 34, under the title "No. 34 consolidated;" and the defendants excepted.
On October 22, 1890, the defendants, "excepting to the several indictments presented against them, and by order of this
court consolidated and now being prosecuted under case No.
34 on the docket of said court, charging said defendants with
a conspiracy to injure and oppress Charles Marlow and others
in the free exercise and enjoyment of rights secured to them
by the Constitution and laws of the United States, move the
court to quash said indictments and dismiss this prosecution,
for the following reasons:
"1st. The said indictments are found and presented by a
grand jury at the January term of the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Texas, holding session 'at
Dallas; and the allegations of said indictments show that the
offences therein charged were committed, if at all, in the subdivision of said district, offences commited in which are cognizable alone at the term of the District and Circuit Court to
be held at Graham in said Young County: therefore this court
is without jurisdiction.
"2d. Said indictments charge these defendants with a conspiracy to injure and oppress Charles Marlow and others named
in said indictments in the free exercise and enjoyment of their
right secured to them by the Constitution and laws of the

.OCTOBER TERM, 189L
Statement of the Case.

United States, a right to be protected by adeputy marshal
of the United States, in whose custody they were, under
process of thiscourt; and the said indictments are bad, because
no such right as therein alleged is secured to said persons by
the Constitution and laws of the United States; alid therefore
this court has no jurisdiction.
"3d. Said indictments charge no offence against the laws
of. the United States, or within the jurisdiction of this court;
but show upon their face, by the allegations thereof, that the
offence committed, if any, was against .the laws of the State of
Texas, of which the courts of said State have exclusive jurisdiction."
The court overruled the motion to quash the indictment,
and the defendants excepted.
On October 30, 1890, the district attorney moved the court
for an order to set aside the former order of consolidation, so
far as to separate the five earlier indictments; to confirm the
consolidation of indictments 33,'34:, 35 and 36; to sever Levell
and Martin from their 6o-defendants; and to order the consolidated case to stand for trial against Logan, Williams, Wilkerson and Rutherford. The court made an order accordingly,
except that as to Williams the case was continued on his application, and with the consent of the district attorney. To
this order no exception was taken by the defendants.
Logan, Wilkerson and Rutherford then severally pleaded
not guilty, and a trial was had, resulting, on November 22,
1890; in this verdict: "We the jury find the defendant Clintoi
Rutherford not guilty. The jury cannot agree as to Eugene
Logan and Verna Wilkerson." The court approved the verdict, and ordered it to be recorded-; and also ordered that
Rutherford be dischaiged from the indictment, and that Logan
and Wilkerson stand committed to the custody of the marshal
until-further order.
At February term, 1891, held at Graham, the court, on
motion of the district attorney, ordered to be consolidated
wfth "No. 34 consolidated" an indictment, numbered 37,
found, by the grand jury in the District Court at Graham on
October 29, 1890, and forthwith transmitted to the Circuit

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Court, charging Collier,. Johnson, Levell, Marion Wallace,
Samuel Waggoner, William Hollis, Richard Cook and five
others named, but not including Logan, with the same -conspiracy, and in pursuance thereof with the attempt to kill on
January 17, and the murder on January 19. No exception
was taken to -this order.
On motion of the districi attorney, suggesting the deaths
of Williams and Collier, the indictments were dismissed as to
them.
The remaining defendants- in indictment 37 "excepted to
the several indictments" so consolidated, and made a motion
to quash them, on the second and third grounds stated in the
former motion to quash. This motion was overruled, and
these defendants excepted to the overruling of the motion,
and -then pleaded not 'guilty.
Logak and Wilkerson filed a special plea that they had once
been in jeopardy for the same offence, in this, that at October
term, 1890, of the court they were tried upon the same indict.ment and for the same murder and conspiracy by a jury;
"that said jury. were legally drawn, empanelled and sworn,
and after hearing the evidence, argument 'of counsel and
charge of the court, retired to consider their verdict; that said
jury. were in their retirement about forty. hours, when they
announced in open court that they were unable to agree as to
these defendants. .Thereupon the court, of its own motion,
and without the consent of these defendants or either of .them;
discharged said jury from further consideration 6f this case,
and 'emanded these defendants to the custody of the United
States marshal; all of which will more fully appear by reference to copies of said verdict and -the order of the court entered" thereon, which are hereto attached. These defendants
further state that there existed in law or fact no emergency
or hurry for the discharge of said jury, nor was said discharge
demanded for the ends of public justice ; and, for the purpose
of this motion or special plea only, these defendants aver and
charge that the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Texas, at Graham, at October term, 1890,
-had jurisdiction over and power to try' and determine said

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

cause." Annexed to this plea were copies of the verdict and
of the order of the court thereon, above stated.
To this plea the district attorney filed an exception in the
nature of a demurrer. The court ordered the exception to be
sustained, and the plea held for naught; and to this order
Logan and Wilkerson excepted.
By order of the court, on motion of the district attorney,
Johnson and five others in indictment 37 were severed from
the other defendants, leaving the case to proceed against
Logan, Wilkerson, Levell, Wallace, Waggoner, Hollis and
Cook.
Copies of the indictments, having endorsed on each the
names of the witnesses upon whose testimony it had been
found by the grand jury, were delivered to the defendants
therein more than two days before the trial. But no list of
the witnesses to be produced at the trial for proving the indictment was delivered to any of the defendants. When the
case was called for trial, and the government announced that
it was ready, the defendants suggested these facts, and moved
the court that they be not required to proceed further until
such lists should be furnished them. The court overruled the
motion, and the defendants excepted.
At the empanelling of the jury, the district attorney, by
leave of the court, put to fourteen of the jurors summoned
this question: "Have you any conscientious scruples in regard
to the infliction of the death penalty for crime?.1 and each of
them answered that he had such conscientious scruples, and
was thereupon challenged for cause. To all this the defendants at the time objected, "because the jury in the United
States court has nothing to do with the penalty, but passes
alone upon the guilt or innocence of the defendants, and because it is not one of the disqualifications of jury service under
the laws of the United States, and because the defendants
were unlawfully deprived of the service of each of said jurors,
who had been regularly drawn and summoned on the special
venire heretofore issued herein as their triers in this cause."
The court overruled all these objections, and the defendants
excepted.

LOGA N v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

At the trial, forty witnesses, whose names were not endorsed
on either indictment, were called and sworn to testify on behalf of the government. As to each and all of these witnesses
the defendants objected to their testifying, because neither
their names, nor a list containing their names, had been delivered to the defendants- two days before the trial, and because
the defbndants had objected, on this ground, to proceeding
when the case was called for trial. The court overruled the
objection, and admitted these witnesses to testify to material
facts necessary to prove the indictments and to make out the
case for the government; and the defendants excepted.
Phlete A. Martin and one Spear, offered as witnesses by the
government, were shown, by certified copies of the records
produced and exhibited to them, to have been convicted and
sentenced for felony. Martin was convicted, in the Superior
Court of Iredell County in the State of North Carolina, of felonious homicide, and was sentenced in 'August, 1883, to imprisonment' for six: months in the county jail, and served out
his entence. Spear was convicted, in the District Court of
Tarrant County in the State of Texas, of two larcenies,, which
were felonies by the law of Texas, and was sentenced in January, 1883, to two terms of imprisonment of two years each,
and served out his sentence; and the government offered and
read -in evidence "a full proclamation of pardon" of those
offences, issued to Spear by the Governor of Texas in May,
1889.
The defendants objected to each of these two witnesses testifying, "because under the laws of Texas they are incompetenst to testify under and by virtue of an express statute, and
because, the offences for which they *ere convicted being
infamous crimes, they are incompetent to testify in the United
States court held within the State of Texas;" and the defendants further objected- to the proclamation of pardon issued -by
the Governor of Texas to Spear, "because said' pardon was
issued to him after he had served his full time required in said
judgment and sentence, and because the facts about which he
was called to testify came to his knowledge after said judgment of conviction and sentence and before the issue of said

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

proclamation of pardon, and because said proclamation of
pardon cannot have the retroactive effect of rendering said
witness competent to testify to facts which, when they came
to his knowledge, he was incompetent to testify to." The court overruled all these objections, and admitted the
testimony of both witnesses to material facts; and afterwards
instructed the jury that they were competent, and that the
convictions and sentences affected their credibility only. The
defendants excepted to the admission of this evidence, and to
the instruction of the court thereon.
The government introduced evidence tending to prove the
following facts:
Shortly before October term, 1888, of the District Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Texas, held at
Graham, the four Marlows named in the indictment, and one
Boone M[arlow, (the- five being brothers,) were arrested on
warrants issued by a commissioner of the Circuit Court of the
United States on complaints charging them with larceny in
the Indian Territory, within the exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States; and at that term they were indicted for that
offence, and enlarged on bail, and went to live on a farm in
Young County, about twelve miles from Graham, known as
the Denson Farm.
Afterwards, on December 17, 1888, the sheriff of the county
and his deputy, Collier, went to the farm to arrest Boone
Marlow on a capias from a court of the State to answer a
charge of murder. Without showing their warrant, Collier
fired a pistol at him, and he fired at Collier, and, missing him,
killed the sheriff. The killing of the sheriff caused great excitement in Young County, and much resentment on the part
of his friends against the .Marlows. Boone Mfarlow escaped
and did not appear again. The four other Marlows were put
in the county jail by the bitizens, and surrendered by their
bail, and were again committed to the jail by Edward W.
Johnson, a deputy United States marshal, under writs of commitment from the commissioner directing him to do so, to
answer the indictments for larceny.
On the night of January 17, 1889, a body of men, armed

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

and partly disguised, entered the jail, surrounded the steel
cage in which the four Marlows were confined, and attempted
to enter it; but being resisted by the Marlows, and one of
the mob knocked down and injured, they finally withdrew
without doing any actual violence to the prisoners.
On January 19, 1889, after dark, Johnson, the deputy marshal, undertook to remove the Marlows, with Burkhart and
Clift, imprisoned under like commitments, to the jail of an
adjoining county. The six prisoners, shackled together, two
and two, (Alfred with Charles, Epp with George, and Burkhart with Clift,) by irons riveted around one leg of each and
connected by a chain, were placed in a hack driven by Martin,
who was county attorney. Johnson, the defendant Wallace
and two other men, all armed, followed in another hack; and
the defendant Waggoner and'another man, also armed, accompanied them in a buggy. When the three vehicles, in
close order, had gone along the highway about two miles
from Graham, they were attacked, near a run called Dry
Creek, by a large body of men, armed and disguised, who
opened fire upon the prisoners.. Martin and the guards were
in league with the attacking party. The four Marlows, in
spite of their shackles, immediately dropped out of the hack,
and wrested fire-arms, either from the guards or from their
assailants, with which they defended themselves, killed tyro
of the mob, wounded others, and finally put the rest. to flight.
Johnson was wounded, and he and all the guards also fled.
Alfred Marlow and Epp Marlow were killed. The other two
Marlows were severely wounded, but succeeded in-freeing
themselves frofa their brothers' dead bodies, took possession
of the hack in which they had come, and together with Burkhart and Clift made their way to a neighboring village, and
thence to the Denson Farm.
On the following day Collier, the new sheriff of the county,
(one of the defendants in this case, who died before the trial,)
went to the Denson Farm with a large body of men whom he
had collected for the purpose of recapturing the two surviving
Marlows. He was there met by the sheriff of a neighboring
county, whose aid he had summoned, but'who declined, on
VOL. CnXirV-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

learning the facts of the case, to interfere in the matter. The
Marlows refused to give themselves up to any one except the
United States marshal or one Morton, his deputy; and no
violence was offered to them; but Collier, with a body of
men, kept guard liear the house for some days until the arrival
of Morton, who, against some remonstrance on the part of
Collier, took the Marlows into his custody. and removed them
to Dallas. They were afterwards tried and acquitted on the
charges against them.
At the trial of the present case, the principal question of
fact was of the defendants' connection with the conspiracy
charged in the indictment.
There was evidence in the casetending to show that Johnson, while lying wounded at his home after the fight, assenteu,
at the solicitation of some of the defendants, to the publication
in a newspaper of a statement that Logan was one of the
guards at Dry Creek on the night of January 19. The government, not for the purpose of contradicting Johnson, but as
independent evidence that Logan took part in the fight, not
as a guard, but as one of the mob, called several witnesses to
prove declarations of Johnson made after the fight, some on
the same night and others some days after, that Logan was
not a guard on that night, had meant to go as a guard, but
had been excused from going; and must have been the person
who informed the mob of the intended removal of the prisoners. The defendants objected to the admission of this evidence, among other grounds, because the declarations were
not made in Logan's presence, and were made after the crime
had been committed and the conspirators had separated. The
judge overruled the objection, and admitted the evidence; and
the defendants excepted to its admission.
The court also admitted, against the like objection and exception of the defendants, testimony to declarations of Collier, of Hollis and of persons not known to the witnesses,
some made on the night of the fight, after the escape of the
Mariows, and while Collier, Hollis and others were in pursuit
and were stopping at houges on their way to get other persons
to join them, and some made on the following day at the

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

funeral of ond of the conspirators and elsewhere, th'at Logan
had been present at the fight, and not as a guard, and had.
been wounded there.
The two surviving Marlows were permitted to testify, on
behalf of 'the government, that while they, with Burkhart
and Clift, were escaping in the hack after the fight, Charles
Marlow told his companions that he believed Logan was the
man at whom he shot, and who was shooting at him, during
the fight. The defendants objected to this evidence, as declarations made in their absence, and as hearsay; and excepted
to its admission.
The defendants requested the judge to instruct the jury that
the matters alleged in the indictments and the proof made
under them constituted no offence under the laws of the
United States, and therefore they should return a verdict of
not guilty. The judge refused so to instruct the jury; and
instructed them as follows.: "When a citizen of the United
States is committed to the custody of a United States marshal,
or to a state jail, by process issuing from one of the courts of
the United States, to be held, in default of -bail, to await his
trial 6n a criminal charge within the exclusive jurisdiction of
the national courts, such citizen has a right, under the Constitution and laws of the United States, to a speedy and public
trial by an impartial jury, and, until tried or discharged by
due process of law, has the right, under said Constitution and.
laws, to be treated with humanity, and to be protected against
all unlawful violence, while he is deprived of the ordinary
means of defending and protecting himself." To this instruction, as well as to the refusal to give the instruction requested,
the defendants excepted.
The judge further defined the crimes charged, of conspiracy,
and of murder in the prosecution of the conspiracy; and submitted to the jury the questions whether the defendants were
guilty of the conspiracy only, and whether they were guilty
of the murder also.
Many other rulings and instructions, excepted to at the trial,
are omitted from this statement, because not passed upon by
this court.

OCTOBER TERM. 1891.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

On April 17, 1891, the jury found the defendants Logan,
Waggoner and Wallace guilty of the conspiracy charged in
the indictments, and not guilty of murder; and acquitted the
other defendants. The court thereupon ordered and adjudged
that the other defendants be 'discharged; and that Logan,
Waggoner and Wallace were guilty of conspiracy as charged
in the indictments, and sentenced each of them to pay a fine
of $5000, to be imprisoned for a term of ten years; and to be
ineligible to any office or place of honor, profit or trust, created
by the Constitution or laws of the United States. On June
23, 1891, they sued out this writ of error, under the act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517, § 5. 26 Stat. 827.
Xrr. JerQme CU XYearby and .Mr. A. .I Garland (with whom
was -ir. H. J. Afay on the brief) for plaintiffs in error.
There are a few general propositions that should exercise a
controlling influence in the decision of this case. The criminal jurisdiction of the United States courts must be expressly
conferred by act of Congress: in other words: "The safe
course undoubtedly is, to confine the jurisdiction in criminal
cases to statute offences duly defined, and to cases within the
express jurisdiction given by the Constitution," (1 Kent. Com.
(13th ed. 332 et seq. and notes,) where all the leading cases
are cited).
For a long period in the history of the country no attempt
was ever made to get any crimiiial jurisdiction for the United
States courts, except upon the high seas and at certain places
under the special jurisdiction of Congress. Art. 1, sec. 8, cl. 17,
Const.; Rev. Stat. sec. 5339 et seq. As was said by Chief
Justice Marshall in.United States v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 336, 388,
it is not the offence committed .but the place in which it is
committed, which must be out of the jurisdiction of the State.
So far was this recognized that a soldier in the service of the
United States killing a fellow-soldier was held amenable to the
state laws and punished under them in the state courts in
spite of the objection that he was liable only to the laws of
the United States; and the act was done upon a soldier in

LOGA-N v. Uj9ITED STATES.

277

Argument for Plainffs in Error.

camp and under custody. Tlie People v. Godfrey, 17 Johns.
225.
Outside of the places named, it was conceived the States
could very well take care of all crimes committed within theii
territory; that their peace and dignity were offended by all
such crimes outside of those places, and in fact there Was iio
peace and dignity of the United States to be offended save and
except in such places.
Among the first and most prominent departures from or
innovations upon this rule was the case of Tennessee v. Dbais,
100 U. S. 257, and that was sustained in an act of 'Congress
Rev. Stat. see. 643, and the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. p.
401. There was a special act.giving this jurisdictionby removal
from the state court, but the path to that result was not smooth
and open, nor by any means discernible to all; for there is a dissent by Justices Clifford and Field of great energy and power,
which is believed by many of the legal profession to be the
law of the case. But there was an express act giving this
jurisdiction, so far as Congress had the power to give it: But
here, as we shall see, it is quite otherwise. Soine other cases
have occurred since Tennessee v. Davis on special statutes;
but in each of them firm and unyielding opposition by a portion of the court was made. It will serve no useful purpbse to
refer to them here, as the court is familiar with them, and
besides they rest upon statutes whose language is not-doubtful
conceding the power of Congress to enact them.
Then comes the question, "Why could not Texas punish
these people for committing assaults, aggravated assaults, or
murder within her unquestioned and unquestionable boundaries ?" Her criminal code, it seems, is most ample for this
purpose. It would 1 e assuming too much to say she would
not try to do it. But if thfs unfortunately were so, jurisdiction would not come to the United States court because Texas
failed to do her duty. This will not stand the test. There
must be some express law giving the jurisdiction, and that law
must be constitutional. These men who were assaulted were
in custody of the marshal, but that did not affect the jurisdiction bf the State; whatever crime was committed was against

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Texas. Godfrey (17 Johns. ubi supra) was; as the man he
stabbed was, in'the military service of the government, and
the deceased was in camp and in custody too.
In casting about for reasons for, taking these matters out of
the Texas courts and from the Texas authorities it would appear from the indictment and from the elaborate charge of the
trial court that sections 5508 and 5509 Rev. Stat. are resorted
to as allowing this.
It would be tedious to go over and review the history of
these sections, the reasons and purposes of their enactment.
This has been done" so often by this court in cases of the gravest character that no one at all up in the history of the country
can well be ignorant on the subject. But it is perfectly safe
to say, no such Yigt and privilege as set forth here ever figured in'the minds of the legislators in making these statutes.
They came into life for different uses and objects entirely.
In a recent case before Justice Lamar in Georgia, these
statutes are discussed with great clearness and accuracy in an
opinion reviewing all the cases on this subject, and he points
out most .distinctly the scope and meaning of those acts, as
reaching and applying to matters altogether foreign to anything disclosed in and by this record. The right in that case
was that of a witness to appear and testify before the grand
jury of a Federal court - a right - if a right, and not a duty,
possibly as high and important as the right of a person or per-sons to be tried, who were held on commitments as alleged.
In that case Justice Lamar demonstrates the prvilge or right
of a witness to appear, and it is not such as comes within the
purview of the acts referred to. We adopt his reasoning without attempting to add to it. He says (48 Fed. Rep. 78, 83, 84):
"The Congress of the United States clearly possesses the
constitutional power and is charged with the constitutiqnal
duty to protect all agencies of the Federal government, including the courts, their officers and all persons whose attendance is necessary in the proceedings of those courts, such as
parties, witnesses and jurors. That power and duty of protection have been exercised and pqrformed with regard to parties,
witnesses and jurors in section 5406 of the Revised Statutes.

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Plaintiff's in Error.

"With respect to a prosecution for crime pending in a Federal court, or in a United States grand jury, the right which
this particular section designs to protect is a public right, i.e.
the right of the United States to have its witnesses and their
testimony, and to have them protected in going to and returning from the court. The wrong punished in such a case is a
public wrong, and its correlative is a public right."
"Section 5508 presupposes that the 'right and privilege,'
involved has already been secured by the Constitution and
laws of the United States, and therefore it is necessary to turn
to them for the definition of the right in this indictment
charged to be violated, in order to determine whether the
indictment is authorized by the provisions of that section.
"Fortunately we are not without judicial construction of
these provisions and of other statutes relating to cognate subjects, as well as judicial expositions of the constitutional amendments, which, it is contended, contained the authority for their
enactment. Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36; United States,
v. Cruishank,1 Woods, 308; United States v. Cruishdnk,
92 U. S. 542; United Sttes v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214; United
States v. Harris,106 U. S. 629; Straude v. 1Vest Virginia,
7
rginia,100 U. S. 339; Bradwell
100 U. S. 303; Ex parte Vi
v. The State, 16 Wall. 130; Hurtado v. California,110 U. S.
516.; Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3; Em parte Yarbrough,
110 U. S. 651; United States v. TWaddell, 112 U. S. 76."
"In these decisions of the Supreme Court it has been found
necessary to pass upon the construction of these and many
other sections of the Revised Statutes in their application to
the varying facts presented by each case. But they all show
the steady adherence of that court to the fundamental principles enunciated by 11r. Justice Bradley in the case of The
United States v. Cruikshan,"1 Woods, 308, and reiterated by
the Supreme Court of the United States in the same case on
a writ of error. They all agree that, aside from the extiiction of slavery and the declaration of national citizenship, the
constitutional amendments are restrictive upon the power of
the general government and the action of the States, and that
there is nothing in their'-language or spirit which indicates

QOCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

that they are to be enforced by Congressional enactments,
authorizing the trial, conviction and punishment of individuals
for individual invasions of individual rights, unless committed
under state authority; that the Fourteenth Amendment guaranteed immunity from state laws and state acts invading the
privileges and rights specified in the amendment, but conferred
no rights upon one citizen as against another; that the provision
of the Fourteenth Amendment authorizing Congress to enforce
its guarantees by legislation means such legislation as is necessary to control and counteract state abridgment, and that
the protection and enforcement of the rights of citizens of the
United States provided in the Enforcement Act of 1870 and
the Civil Rights Act of 1875 refer only to such rights as are
granted by and dependent on the Constitution and the valid
and constitutional laws of the United States."
"But there is another view which demonstrates that this
section does not sustain the indictment in this case. We cannot present it more forcibly than by quoting the following
from the opinion of the Supreme Court, delivered by Mr. Justice Bradley in the Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3, 16, 17,
18. Referring to the provisions as above quoted, and other
subsequent provisions in the statute from which the section
was taken, the learned justice says:
"'This law is clearly corrective in its character, intended to
counteract andfurnish redress against state laws and proceedings, and customs having the force of law, which sanction the
wrongful acts speciyied. In the Revised Statutes, it is true, a
very important clause, to wit, the words, "any law, statute,
ordinance, regulation or custom to the contrary notwithstanding," which gave the declaratory section its point and effect,
are omitted; but the penal part by which the declaration is
enforced, and which is really the effective part of the law,
retains the reference to state laws, by making the penalty
apply only to those who should subject parties to a deprivation
of their rights under color of any statute, ordinance, custom,
etc., of any State or Territory, thus preserving the corrective
character of the legislation. Rev. Stat. §§ 1977, 1978, 1979,
5510. . . . In this connection, it is proper to state that

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

civil rights, such as are guaranteed by the Constitution against
state aggression, cannot be impaired by the wrongful acts of
individuals unsupported by state authotity in the shape of
laws,' customs or judicial or executive proceedings. The
wrongful act of an individual, unsupported by any such
authority, is simply a private wrong, or a crime of that
individual; an invasion of the rights of the injured party, it
is true, whether they affect his person, his property or his
reputation, but if not sanctioned in some way by the State, or
not done under state authority, his rights remain in full force,
and may presumably be vindicated by resort to the laws of
the State for redress. An individual cannot deprive a man
of his right to vote, to hold property, to buy and sell, to sue
in the courts or to be a witness or a juror; he may by force
or fraud interfere with the enjoyment of the right in a particular case; he may commit an assault against the person, or
commit murder, or use ruffian violence at the polls, or slander
the good name of a fellow-citizen, but unless protected in
these wrongful acts by some shield of state law or state
authority he cannot destroy or injure the right; he will only
render himself amenable to satisfaction or punishment, nd
amenable therefor to the laws of the State where the-wrong
ful acts are committed. Hence, in all those cases where
the Constitution seeks to protect the rights of the citizen
against discriminative and unjust laws of the State by pro,
hibiting such laws, it is not individual offences, but abroga,
tion and denial of rights, which it denounces, and for -which
it clothes the Congress with the power to provide a remedy."'
"' And the remedy to be provided must iiecessarily be predi,
cated upon that wrong. It must assume that in the case pro,
vided for, the evil or wrong actually committed rests upon some
state law or state authority for its excuse and perpetration.'"

.Mr. Solicitor General.for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTiE, GrAT, after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error were indicted on sections 5508 and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

5509 of the Revised Statutes, for conspiracy, and for murder
in the prosecution of the conspiracy; and were convicted,
under section 5508, of a conspiracy to injure and oppress
citizens of the United States in the free exercise and enjoyment of the right to be secure from assault or bodily harm,
and to be protected against unlawful violence, while in the
custody of a marshal of the United States under a lawful
commitment by a commissioner of the Circuit Court of the
United States for trial for an offence against the laws of the
United States.
By section 5508 of the Revised Statutes, "if two or more
persons conspire to injure, oppress, threaten or intimidate any
citizen in the free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege secured to him by the Constitution or laws of the United
States, or because of his having so exercised .the same," "they
shall be fined not more than five thousand dollars and
imprisoned not more than ten years, and shall, moreover, be
thereafter ineligible to any office or place of honor, profit or
trust, created by the Constitution or laws of the' United
States."
1. The principal question in .this case is whether the right
of a citizen of the United States, in the custody of a United
States marshal under a lawful commitment to answer for an
offence against the United States, to be protected against lawless violence, is a right secured to him by the Constitution or
laws of the United States, or whether it is a right which can.
be vindicated only under the laws of the several States.
This question is presented by the record in several forms.
It was raised in the first instance by the defendants "excepting to" and moving to quash the indictment. A motion to
quash an indictment is ordinarily addressed to the discretion
of the court, and therefore a refusal to quash cannot generally
be assigned for error. United States v. Rosenburgk, 7 Wall.
580; United States v. Hlamilton, 109 U. S. 63. But the
motion in this case appears to have been intended and understood to include an exception, which, according to the practice
in Louisiana and Texas, is equivalent to a demurrer. And the
same question is distinctly presented by the judge's refusal to

_0GAN v. UNITED- STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

instruct the jury as requested, and by the instructions given
by him to the jury.
Upon this question, the court has no doubt. As was said
by Chief Justice Marshall, in the great case of AicCulloch v.
.Xaqryland, "The government of the Union, though limited in
its powers, is supreme within its sphere of action." "No trace
is to be found in the Constitution of an intention to create a
dependence of the government of the Union on those of the
States, for the execution of the great powers assigned to it.
Its means are adequate to its ends; and on those means alone
was it expected to rely for the accomplishment of its ends.
To impose on it the necessity of resorting to means which it
cannot control, which another government may furnish or
withhold, would render its course precarious, the result of its
measures uncertain, and create a dependence on other governments, which might disappoint its most important designs,
and is incompatible with'the language of the Constitution."
4 Wheat. 316, 405, 424.
Among the powers which the Constitution expiressly confers
upon Congress is the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the powers specifically
granted to it, and all other powers vested by the Constitution
in the government of the United States, or in any department
or officer thereof. In the exercise of this general power of
legislation, Congress may use any means, appearing to it most
eligible and appropriate, which are adapted to the end to
be accomplished, and are consistent with the letter and the
spirit of the Constitution. .McCullock v. MAamland, 4 Wheat.
316, 421 ; Juilliard v. Greenman, 110 UT. S. 421, 440, 441.
Although the Constitution contains no grant, general or specific, to Congress of the power to provide for the punishment
of crimes, except piracies and felonies on the high seas, offences
against the law of nations, treason, and counterfeiting the securities and current coin of the United States, no one doubts the
power of Congress to provide for the punishment of all crimes
and offences against th United States, whether committed
within one of the States of the Union, or within territory over
which Congress has plenary and exclusive jurisdiction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

To accomplish this end, Congress has the right to enact
laws for the arrest and commitment of those accused of any
such crime or offence, and for holding them in safe custody
until indictment and trial; .and persons arrested and held
pursuant to such laws are in the exclusive custody of the
Uiited States, and are not subject to the judicial process or
executive warrant of any State. Ablemam v. Booth, 21 How.
506; T'arble's Case, 13 Wall. 391; Robb v. Connolly, 111 U. S.
621. The United States, having the absolute right to hold
such prisoners, have an equal duty to protect them, while
so held, against assault or injury from any quarter. The
existence of that duty on the part of the government necessarily implies a corresponding right of the prisoners to be so
protected; and this right of the prisoners is a right secured to
them by the Constitution and laws of the United States.
The statutes of the United States have provided that any
person accused of a crime or offence against the United States
may by any United States judge or commissioner of a Circuit
Court be arrested and confined, or bailed, as the case may be,
for trial before the court of the United States having cognizance of the offence; and, if bailed, may be arrested by his
bail, and delivered to the marshal or his deputy, before any
judge or other officer having power to commit for the offence,
and be thereupon recommitted to the custody of the marshal,
to be held until discharged by due course of law. Rev. Stat.
§§ 1014, 1018. They have also provided that all the expenses
attendant upon the transportation from place to place, and
upon the temporary or permanent confinement, of persons
arrested or committed under the laws of the United States,
shall be paid out of the Treasury of the United States; and
that the marshal, in case of necessity, may provide a convenient place for a temporary jail, and "shall make such other
provision as he may deem expedient and necessary for the
safe-keeping of the prisoners arrested or committed under the
authority of the United States, until permanent provision for
that purpose is made by law." Rev. Stat. §§ 5536-5538.
In the case at bar, the indictments alleged, the evidence at
the trial tended to prove, and the jury have found by their

LOGAN v.- UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
verdict, that while Charles Marlow and five others, citizens of
the United States, were in the custody and control of a deputy
narshal of the United States under writs of commitment from a
commissioner of tIae.Circuit Court, in default of bail, to answer
to indictments for an offence against the laws of the United
States, the plaintiffs in- error conspired to injure and oppress
them in the free exercise and enjoyment of the right, secured
to them by the Constitution and laws of the United States, to
be protected, while in such custody and control of the deputy
marshal, against assault and bodily harm, until they had been
disdharged by due process of the laws of the United States.
If, as some of the evidence introduced- by the government
tended to show, the deputy marshal and his assistants made
no attempt to protect the prisoners, but were in league and
collusion with the conspirators, that does not lessen or impair
the right of protection, secured to the prisoners by the Consti.tution and laws of the United States..
The prisoners were in the exclusive custody and control of
the United States, under the protection of the -United States,
and in the peace of the United States. There was a co-extensive duty on the part of the United States to protect against
lawless violence persons so within their custody, control, protection and peace; and a corresponding right of those persons,.
secured by the Constitution and laws of the United States, to
be so protected by the United States. If the officers of the
United States, charged with the performance of the duty, inbehalf of the United States, of affording that protection and
securing that right, neglected or violated their duty, the prisoners were not the less under the shield and panoply of the
United States.
The cases heretofore decided by this court, and cited in behalf of the plaintiffs in error, are in no way inconsistent with
these views, but, on the contrary, contain much to support
them. The matter considered in each of those cases was
whether the particular right there in question was secured
by the Constitution of the United States, and was within the
acts of Congress. But the question before us is so important, and the learned counsel for the plaintiffs in error have

286-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

so strongly relied on those cases, that it is it to review them
in detail.
In United State.s v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214,. 217, decided at
October term, 1875, this court, speaking by Chief Justice
Waite, said: "Rights and immunities created by or dependent
upon the Constitution of the United States can be protected
by Congress. The form and the manner of the protection
may be such as Congress, in the legitimate exercise of its legislative discretion, shall provide. These may be varied to meet
the necessities of the particular right to be protected." The
decision in that case was that the Fifteenth Amendment of
the Constitution did not confer on citizens of the United States
the right to vote, but only the right of exemption from being
denied by a State the right to vote on account of race, color,
or previous condition of servitude; and therefore that sections
3 and 4 of the Enforcement Act of May 31, 1870, (16 Stat. 140,
141, renacted in Rev. Stat. §§ 2007-2009, 5506,) undertaking
to punish the denial or obstruction of the right to vote under
the laws of any State or Territory, and not grounded on such
discrimination, were unconstitutional.
In United States v. Cruikcshank, 92 U. S.542, at the same
term, in which also the opinion was delivered by the Chief
,Justice, the indictment was on section 6 of the Enforcement
Act of 1870, (reinacted in Rev. Stat. § 5508, under which the
present conviction was had,) and the points adjudged on the
construction of the Constitution and the extent of the powers
of Congress were as follows:
1st. It was held that the First Amendment of the Constitution, by which it was ordained that Congress should make no
law abridging the right of the people peaceably to assemble
and to petition the government for a redress of grievances,
did not grant to the people the right peaceably to assemble
for lawful purposes, but recognized that righf as already existing, and did not guarantee its continuance except as against
acts of Congress; and therefore the gefieral right was not a
right secured by the Constitution of the United States. But
the court added: "The right of the people peaceably to assemble for the purpose of petitioning Congress for a redress of

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

grievances, or for anything else connected with the powers or
the duties of the national government, is an attribute of national citizenship, and, as such, under the protection of, and
guaranteed by, the United States. The very idea of a government, republican in form, implies a right on the part of
its citizens to meet peaceably for consultation in respect to
public affairs and to petition for a redress of grievances. If
it had been alleged in these counts that the object of the
defendants was to prevent a meeting for such a purpose,
the case would have been within the statute, and within the
scope of the sovereignty of the United States." 92 U. S.
552, 553.
2d. It was held that'the Second Amendment of the Constitution, declaring that "the right of the people to keep and
bear arms shall not be infringed," was equally limited in its
scope. 92 U. S.553.
3d. It was held that a conspiracy of individuals to injure,
oppress and intimidate citizens of the United States, with intent
to deprive them of life and liberty without due process of law,
did not come within the statute, nor under the power of Congress, because the rights of life and libgrty were not granted
by the Constitution, but were natural and inalienable rights
of man; and that the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution, declaring that no State shall deprive any person of
life, liberty or property, without due process of law, added
nothing to the rights of one citizen as against another, but
simply furnished an additional guaranty against any encroachment by the States upon the fundamental rights which belong
to every citizen as a member of society. It was of these
fundamental rights of life and liberty, not created by or
dependent on .the Constitution, that the court said: "Sovereignty, for this purpose, rests alone with the States. It is no
more the duty or within the power of the United States to
punish for a conspiracy to falsely imprison or murder within
a State, than it would be to punish for false- imprisonment or
murder itself." 92 U. S. 553, 554.
4th. It was held that the provision of the Fourteenth Amendment, forbidding any State to deny to any'person within its

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws, gave no greater
jpower to Congress. 92 U. S. 555.
5th. It was held, in accordance with United States v. Reese,
above cited, that counts for conspiracy to prevent and hinder
citizens of the African race in the free exercise and enjoyment
of the right to vote at state elections, or to injure and oppress
them for having voted at such elections, not alleging that this
was on account of their race, or color, or previous condition of
servitude, could not be maintained; the court saying: "The
right to vote in the States comes from the States; but the
right of exemption from the prohibited discrimination comes
from the United States. The first has not been granted or
secured by the Constitution of the United States, but the last
has been." 92 U. S.556.
Nothing else was decided in United States v. Cruikshank,
except questions of the technical sufficiency of the indictment,
having no bearing upon the larger questions.
The main principles on which that decision was based had
been clearly summed up by 'Mr. Justice Bradley when the
same case was before the Circuit Court, as follows: "It is
undoubtedly a sound proposition, that whenever a right is
guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States, Congress has the power to provide for its enforcement, either biy
implication arising from the correlative duty of government
to protect, wherever a right to the citizen is conferred, or
under the general power (contained in art. 1, sec. 8, par. 18) ' to
make all laws necessary and proper for carrying into execution
the foregoing powers, and all other powers vested by this
Constitution in the government of the United States, or any
department or officer thereof.'"
"With regard to those
acknowledged rights and privileges of the citizen, which form
a part of his political inheritance derived from the mother
country, and which were challenged and vindicated by centuries of stubborn resistance to arbitrary power, they belong
to him as his birthright, and it is the duty of the particular
State of which he is a citizen to protect and enforce them, and
to do naught to deprive him of their full enjoyment. When
any of these rights and privileges are secured in the Constitu-

LOGAN 'v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the United States only by a declaration that the State
or the United States shall not violate or abridge them, it is
at once understood that they are not created or conferred by
the Constitution, but that the Constitution oily guarantees
that they shall not be impaired by the State, or the United
States, as the case may be. The fulfilment of this guaranty
by the United States is the only duty with which that government is charged. The affirmative enforcement of the rights
and privileges themselves, unless something more is expressed,
does not devolve upon it, but belongs to the state government
as a part of its residuary sovereignty." 1 Woods, 308, 314316.
In Strauder v. West. Virginia, 100 U. S.303, at October
term, 1879, in which it was adjudged that the provision of the
Fourteenth Amendment, forbidding any State to deny to any
person within its jurisdition the equal protection of the laws,
was violated by statutes of a State providing 'that white men
only ;hould be the jurors on the trial of a black man, the
court, speaking by Mr. Justice Strong, said: "A right or an
immunity, whether created by the Constitution or only guaranteed by it, even without any express 'delegation of power,
may be protected by Congress." 100 U. S.310.
In Expajrte Virginia, 100 U. S.339, at the same term, the
court upheld the constitutionality of the Civil Rights Act of
March 1, 1875, c. 114, § 4, (18 Stat. 336,) enacting that no citizen, having all other qualifications provided by law, should be
disqualified from service as a juror in any court -of the United
States or of any State, on account of race, ,olor, or previous
condition of servitude, and that any officer, charged* with the
duty of selecting jurors, who should exclude any citizen for
such cause, should be guilty of a misdemeanor.
In United Sates v. Harris,,106 U. S. 629, at October term,
1882, the indictment was for conspiring to deprive, and for
depriving, ce'rtain citizens of the United States of the equal
protection of the laws, in this, that they were in the custody
of officers of a State under lawful arrest on charges of crime,
and were, "by the laws of said State, entitled to the due and
equal protection of the laws thereof," and "to have their perVOL. CXIIV-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

sons protected from violence when so under arrest as aforesaid." That indictment was on section 5519 of the Revised
Statutes, which assumed to-punish a conspiracy for the purpose of depriving any person or class of persons'of the equal
protection of the laws. The court, following the cases of
Reese and Craieshank,above stated, held -that section to be
unconstitutional, because broader than the Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the
United States would justify. The case is clearly, distinguished
from the case at bar by the facts that those prisoners were in
the custody of officers, not of the United States, but of the
State, and that the laws, of the equal protection of which they
were alleged to have been deprived, were the laws of the
State only.
In the cases reported under the head of the Civil Rights
Cases, 109 U. S. 3, at October term, 1883, the whole extent
of the decision was that sections 1 and 2 of the Civil Rights
Act of March 1, 1875, a. 114, (18 Stat. 336,) declaring all persons within the jurisdiction of the United States to be entitled
to the full and equal enjoyment of inns, public conveyances,
and places of public amusement, and assuming to punish the
denial of such enjoyment to any citizen, "except for reasons
by law applicable to citizens of every race and color, and
regardless of any previous condition of servitude," were unconstitutional, because not authorized, either by the Thirteenth Amendment, abolishing slavery, or by the Fourteenth
Amendment, the general scope and purpose of which were thus
defined by Mr. Justice Bradley in delivering judgment: "It is
state action of a particular character that is prohibited. Individual invasion of individual rights is not the subject matter
of the Amendment." "It does not- invest Congress with
power to legislate upon subjects which are within the domain
of state legislation; but to provide modes of relief against
state legislation, or state action, of the kind referred to. It
does not authorize Congress to create a code of municipal
law for the regulation of private rights; but to provide modes
of redress against the operation of state laws, and the action
of state officers, exedutive or judicial, when these are subver-

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

sive of the fundamental rights specified in the Amendment."
"Such legislation cannot properly cover the whole domain of.
rights appertaining to life, liberty and property, defining them
and providing for their vindication. That would be to establish a code of municipal law regulative of all private rights
between man and man in society. It would be to make Congress take the place of the state legislatures and to supersede
them." 109 U. S. 11, 13.In Ex paiteYarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, at the same term, it
was adjudged that both section 5508 of the Revised Statutes
(on which these indictments are founded) and section 5520,
punishing conspiracy to prevent by force, intimidation or
threats any citizen from lawfully giving his support to the
election of a qualified person as presidential elector or member of Congress, were constitutional, because within the implied powers of Congress. In. answer to the argument that
the partieg assaulted were not officers of the. United States,
and that their protection by Congress in exercising the right
to vote did not siand on the same ground with the protection
of election officers of the United States, the court, speaking
by Mr. Justice Miller, said: "But the distinction is not well
taken. The power in either case arises out of the circumstance that the function in which the party is engaged, or the
right which he is about to exercise, is dependent on the laws
of the United States. In- both cases, it is the duty of that
government to see that he may exercise this right freely, and
to protect him from violence while so doing, or on account of
so doing. This duty does not arise solely from the interest of
the party concerned, but from the necessity of the government
itself, that its service shall be free from the adverse influence
of force and fraud practised on its agentS, and that the votes
by which its members of Congress and its President are
elected shall be the free votes qf the electors, and the officers
thus chosen the free and uncorrupted choice of those who
have the right to take part in that choice." 110 U. S.662.
In Tnitedl States v. WcTddell, 112 U. S. 76, at October term,
1884, the court reaffirmed the constitutionality of section 5508
of the Revised Statutes, and, speaking by the same eminent

OCTOBER TERV,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

judge, said: "The statute itself is careful to limit its operation
to an obstruction or oppression in ' the free exercise of a right
or privilege secured by the Constitution or laws of the United
States, or because of his- having exercised such rights.' The
protection of this section extends to no other right, to no right
or privilege dependent on a law or laws of the State. Its
object is to guarantee safety and protection to persons in the
exercise of rights dependent on the laws of the United States,
including, of course, the Constitution and treaties as well as
statutes, and it does not, in this section at least,. design to protect any other rights." 112 U. S.79. The particular right,
held in that case to be dependent on and secured by the laws
of the United States, and to be protected by section 5508 of
the Revised Statutes against interference by individuals, was
the right of a citizen, having made a homestead entry on public land, within the limits of a State, to continue to reside on
the land for five years, for the purpose of perfecting his title
to a patent, under sections 2289-2291 of the Revised Statutes,
of which the court said: "The right here guaranteed is not
the mere right of protection against personal violence. This,
if the result of an ordinary quarrel or malice, would be cognizable under the laws of the State and by its courts. But it
is something different from that. " It is the right to remain on
the land in order to perform 'the requirements of the act of
Congress, and, according to its rules, perfect his incipient
title. Whenever the acts complained of are of a character to
prevent this, or throw obstruction in the way of exercising
this right, and for the purpose and with intent to prevent it,
or to injure or oppress a person because he has exercised it,
then, because it is a right asserted under the law of the United
States and granted by that law, those acts come within the
purview of the statute and of the constitutional power of Congress to make such statute." 112 U. S.80.
In Baldwin v. Franks,120 U. S.678, at October term, 1886,
it was decided that the word "citizen," in section 5508 of the
Revised Statutes, as in the original act of May 31, 1870, c. 114,
§ 6, was used in its political sense, and not as synonymous
with "resident," "inhabitant" or "person," and therefore did

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

not include an alien. It was in regard to that point that
Chief Justice Waite .said: "This particular section is a substantial re~nactme'nt of section 6 of the original act, which is
found among the sections that deal exclusively with the political rights of citizens, especially their right to vote, and were
evidently intended to prevent discriminations in this particular
against voters on account ' of race, color, or previous condition
of servitude."' 120 U. S. 691. He did not say that the section in question, but only that the sections among which it is
found, "deal exclusively with the political rights of citizens."
To have said that the section in question was so limited would
have been in direct conflict with the decision in United States
v. Waddell, above cited, to which the Chief Justice, at the outset of his discussion. of the question whether " citizen included
an alien,, had referred as establishing the constitutionality -of
the section.
The whole scope and effect of this series of decisions is that,
while certain fundamental rights, recognized and declared, but
not granted or created, in some of the Amendments to the
Constitution, are thereby guaranteed only against violation or
abridgaent by-the United States, or by the States, as the case
may be, and cannot therefore be affirmatively enforced by
Congress against unlawful acts of individuals; ydt that every
right, created by, arising under or dependent upon, the Constitution of the United States, may be protected and enforced
by Congress by such means and in such mainer as Congress,
in the exercise of the correlative duty of protection, or of the
legislative powers conferred upon it by the Constitution, may
in its discretion deem most eligible and.best adapted "to attain
the object.
Among the pbrticular rights which this court, as we have
seen) has adjudged to be secured, expressly or by implication,
by the Constitution and laws of the United States, and to be
within section 5508 of the Revised Statutes, providing for the.
punishment of conspiracies by individuals to opprss or injure
citizens in the free exercise and enjoyment of rights so secured"
are the political right of a voter to be protected from violence
while exercising his right, of suffrage under the laws- of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

United States; and the private right of a citizen, having made
a homestead entry, to be protected from interference while
remaining in the possession of the land for the time of occupancy which Congress has enacted shall entitle him to a
patent.
In the case at bar, the right in question does not depend
upon any of the Amendments to the Constitution, but arises
out of the creation and establishment by the Constitution itself
of a ,ational government, paramount and supreme within its
sphere of action. .Any government which has power to indict,
try and punish for crime, and to arrest the accused and hold
them in safekeeping until trial, must have the power and the
duty to protect against unlawful interference its prisoners so
held, as well as its executive and judicial officers charged with
keeping and trying them.
In the very recent. Case of 1lNeagle, 135 U. S. 1, at October
term, 1889, it was held that, although there was no express act
of Congress authorizifig the appointment of a deputy marshal
or other officer to attend a justice of this court while travelling
in his circuit, and to protect him against assault or injury, it was
within the power and the duty of the Executive Department
to protect a judge of any of the courts of the United States,
when there was just reason to believe that he would be in
personal danger while executing the duties of his office; that
an assault upon such a judge, while in discharge of his official
duties, was a breach of the peace of the United States, as
distinguished from the peace of the State in which the assault
took place; and that a deputy marshal of the United States,
specially charged with the duty of protecting and guarding a
judge of a court of the United States, had imposed upon him
the duty of doing whatever might be necessary for that
purpose, even to the taking of human life.
In delivering judgment, Mr. Justice Miller, repeating the
language used by Mr. Justice Bradley speaking for the court
in Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371, 394, said: "It is argued
that the preservation of peace and good order in sobiety is not
within-the powers confided to the government of the United
States, but belongs exclusively to the States. Here again we

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.

.295

Opinion of the Court.

are met with the theory that the government of the United
States does not rest upon the soil and territory of the country.
We think that this theory is founded on an entire misconception
of the nature and powers of that government. We hold it to
be an incontrovertible principle, that the government of the
United States may, by means of physical force, exercised
through its official agents, execute on every foot of American
soil the powers and functions that belong to it. This necessarily involves the power to command obedience to its laws,
and hence the power to keep the peace to that extent." 135
U. S. 60. After further discussion of that question, and of
the powers of sheriffs in the State of California, where the
transaction took place, Mr. Justice Miller-added: "That there
is a peace of the United States; that a man assaulting a judge
of the United States while in the discharge of his duties violates
that peace; that in such case the marshal of the United States
stands in the same relation to the peace of the United States
which the sheriff of the county does to the peace of the State
of California; are questions too clear to need argument to
prove them." 135 U. S. 69.
The United States are bound to protect against lawless
violence all persons in theii service or custody in the course of
the administration of justice. This duty and the correlative
right of protection, are not limited to the magistrates and
officers charged with expounding and executing the laws, but
apply, with at least equal force, to those held in custody on
accusation of crime, and deprived of all means of self-defence.
For these reasons, we are of opinion that the crime of which
the plaintiffs in error were indicted and convicted was within
the reach of the constitutional powers of Congress, and was
covered by section 5508 of the Revised Statutes; and it remains
to be considered whether they were denied any legal right by
the other rulings and instructions of the Circuit Court.
2. The objection to the consolidation of the indictments on
which the plaintiffs in error were tried and convicted cannot
prevail.
Ccngress has enacted that, "when there are several charges
against any person for the same act or transaction, or for two

OCTOBER TERM, 1891..
Opinion of the Court.

or more acts or transactions connected together, or for two or
more acts or transactions of the same class of crimes or
offences, which may be properly joined, instead of having several indictments the whole may be joined in one indictment
in separate counts; and if two or more indictments are found
in such cases, the court may order them to be consolidated."
Rev. Stat. § 1024.
The record before us shows that the court below at different
times made three orders of consolidation.
The only exception taken by the defendants to any of these
orders was to the first one, madd at October term, 1890, by
which four of the indictments on which a trial was afterwards
had were ordered to be consolidated with five earlier indictments which included other defendants and different offences.
By the second order of consolidation, made on a subsequent
day of the same term, the five earlier indictments were ordered
to be separated, so that in this respect the case stood as if they
had never been consolidated with the four later ones; two of
the defendants in one of these four indictments were ordered
to be severed and tried separately; and the former order of
consolidation was confirmed as to the four indictments, all of
which, as they then stood, were charges against the same
persons "for the same act or transaction," or, at least, "for
two or more acts or transactions connected together," and
therefore within the very terms and purpose of the section of
the Revised Statutes above quoted, and might perhaps have
been ordered, in the discretion of the court, to be tried together, independently of any statute upon the subject. See
United States v. Yarbrough, i10 U. S.651, 655; United States
v. -Mfarchant, 12 Wheat. 480 ; Withers v. Commonwealth, 5
S. & R. 59. And to this order no exception was taken.
By the third order of consolidation, indeed, made at
February term, 1891, shortly before the trial, a new indictment against different persons for the same crime was consolidated with the four indictments. But it is unnecessary to
consider whether this was open to objection, since none of the
defendants objected or excepted to it. They may all have
considered it more advantageous or more convenient to have

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the new indictment tried together with the other fo'-r. Having gone to trial, without objection, on th, idic. nents as
consolidated under the last order of the court, it was not open
to any of them to take the objection for the 1drst time after
verdict.
3. The objection made to the four indictments, that they
should have been found by the grand jury at Graham and not
at Dallas, is based on a misapprehension of the acts of Congress upon that subject. By the act of February 24, 1879,
c. 9*7, § 1, creating the Northern Judicial District of Texas,
Young County is one of the counties included in that district;
by § 4 the terms of the courts in that district are to be held at
Waco, at Dallas and at Graham; and by § 5, "all process
issued against defendants residing in the counties of" Young
and certain adjoining counties "shall be returned to Graham,"
and against defendants residing in certain', other counties to
Waco and to Dallas respectively. 20 Stat. 318'319. By the
act of June 14, 1880, c. 213, that act is amended by adding, at
the'end of section 5, these words: "And all prosecuti5'ns in
either of said districts for offences against the laws of the
United States shall be tried in that division of the district to
which process for the county in which said offences are committed is by said section required to be returned; and all writs
and recognizances in said- prosecutiolns shall be returned to
that division in which said prosecutions by this act are to be
tried." 21 Stat. 198. This provision does not affect the
authority of the grand jury for the district, sitting at any
place at which the court is appointed to be held, to present
indictments for offences committed anywhere within the district. It only-requires the trial to be had, and writs- and
recognizances to be returned, in the division in which the
offence is committed. The finding -of the indictment is no
part of the trial. And these-indictments were tried at Gra
ham in conformity with the statute.
4. The plea of former jeopardy was rightly held bad. It
averred that the discharge of the jury at the former trial without the defendants' consent was by the court, of its own
motion, and after the jury, having been iti retirement to con-

OCTOBER TERI,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

sider their verdict for forty hours, had announced in open
court that they were Anable to agree as to these defendants.
The further averment that "'there existed in law or fact no
emergency or hurry for the discharge of said jury, nor was
said discharge demanded for the ends of public justice," is an
allegation, not so much of specific and traversable fact, as of
inference and opofion, which cannot control the effect of the
facts previously alleged. Upon those facts, whether the discharge of the jury was manifestly necessary in order to prevent a defeat of the ands of public justice, was a question to
be finally decided by the presiding judge in the sound exercise
of his discretion. United States v. Perez, 9 Wheat. 579;
Simmons v. United Statqs, 142 U. S. 148.
5. As the defendants were indicted and to be tried for a
crime punishable with death, those jurors who stated on voir
dire that they had "conscientious scruples in regard to the
infliction of the death penalty for crime" were rightly permitted to be challenged by the government for cause. A
juror who has conscientious scruples on any subject, which
prevent him from standing indifferent between the government and the accused, and from trying the case according to
the law and the evidence, is not an impartial juror. This
court has accordingly held that a peison who has a conscientious
belief that polygamy is rightful may -be ch~llenged for cause
on a trial for polygamy. Reynolds -v. United States, 98 U. S.
145, 147, 157; -Miles v. United State.q, 103 U. S. 304, 310.
And the principle has been applied to the very question now
before us by Mr. Justice -Story in Unimd States v. Cornell, 2
Mason, 91, 105, and by Mr. Justice Baldiin in United States
v. Wilson, Baldwin, 78, 83, as well as by tne courts of every
State in which the question has arisen, and by express statute
in many States. Whart: Grim. Pl. (9th ed.) § 664.
6. In support of the objection to the competency of the
two witnesses who -had been previously convicted and sentenced for felony, the one in North Carolina, and the other in
Texas, the plaintiffs in error relied on article 730 oi the Texas
Code of Criminal Procedure of 1879, which makes inuempetent
to testify in criminal cases "11 llpersons who have been or may

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.

299

Opinion of the Court.

be convicted of felony in this State or in any other jurisdiction,
unless such conviction has been legally set aside, or unless the
convict has been legally pardoned for the crime of which he
was convicted."
By an act of the congress of the Republic of Texas of
December 20, 1836, § 41, "the common law of England, as
now practised and understood, shall, in its application to juries
and to evidence, be followed and practised by the courts of
this republic, so far as the same may not be inconsistent with this
act, or any other law passed by this congress." 1 Laws of Republic of Texas (ed. 1838) 156. That act was in force at the time
of the admission of Texas into the Union in 1845. The first act
of the State of Texas on the incompetency of witnesses, by
reason of conviction of crime, appears to have been the statute
of February 15, 1858, c. 151, by which all persbns convicted
of felony, in Texas or elsewhere, were made incompetent to
testify in criminal actions, notwithstanding a pardon, unless
their competency to testify had been specifically restored.
General Laws of 7th Legislature of Texas, 242; Oldham &
White's Digest, 640. That provision was afterwards put
in the shape in which ft stands in the Code of 1879, above
cited.
The question whether the existing statute-of the State of
Texas upon this, subject is applicable to criminal trials in the
courts of the United States held within the State depends upon
the construction and effect of section 858 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, which is as follows: 1 In the courts
of the United States no witness shall be excluded in any action
on account of color, or in any civil action because he is a party
to or interested in the issue tried: provided, that in actions by
or against executors, administrators or guardians, in which
judgment may be rendered for or against them, neither party
shall be allowed to testify against the other as to any transaction with, or statement by, the testator, intestate or ward,
unless called to testify thereto by the opposite party, or
required to testify thereto by the court. In all other respects,
the laws of- the State in which the-court is held shall be the
rules of decision as to the competency of witnesses in the

.300

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

courts of the United States in trials at common law, and in
equity and admiralty."
In the provision, at the beginning of this section, that "in
the courts of the United States no witness shall be excluded
in any action on account of color, or in any civil action because he is a party to or interested in the issue tried," the distinction between "any civil action" in the second clause, and
"any action" in the first clause, shows that the first clause
was intended to include criminal actions, or, as they are more
commonly called, criminal cases, while the second clause was
in terms restricted to civil actions only. Green v. United
States, 9 Wall. 655, 658. And were the whole section to be
considered by itself, without reference to previous statutes and
decisions, "trials at common law," in the final clause of the
section, might also be held to include trials in criminal, as well
as in civil cases.
But the history of congressional legislation and judicial ex.
position on this subject renders such a construction impossibl:.
By the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, § 34, it
was enacted "that the laws of the several States, except where
the Constitution, treaties or statutes of the United States shall
otherwise require or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law in the courts of the United
States in cases where they apply." 1 Stat. 92. Although that
section stood between two sections clearly applicable to criminal cases, it was adjudged by this court at December term,
1851, upon a certificate of division of opinion in the Circuit
Court, directly presenting the question, that the section did
not include criminal trials, or leave to the.States the power to
prescribe and change from time to time the rules of evidence
in trials in the courts of the United States for offences against
the United States. Chief Justice Taney, delivering the unanimous judgment of the court, said: "The language of this section cannot upon any fair construction be extended beyond
civil cases at common law, as contradistinguished from suits
in equity. So far as concerns rights of property, it is the only
rule that could be adopted by the courts of the United States,
and the only one that Congress had the power to establish.

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

And the section above quoted was merely intended to confer
on the.courts of the United States the jurisdiction necessary to
enable them to administer the laws of the States. But it
could not be supposed, without very plain words to show it,
tfiat Congress intended to give to the States the power (of prescribing the rules of evidence in trialslfor offences against the
United States. For this construction would in effect place the
criminal jurisprudence of one sovereignty under the control
of another. It is evident that such could not be the design of
this act of Congress." "The law by which, in the opinion of
this court, the admissibility of testimony in cfiminal cases
must be determined, is the law of the State, as it was when
the courts of the United States were established by the Judiciary Act of 1789." "The courts of the United States have
uniformly acted upon this construction of these acts of Con-gress, and it has thus .been sanctioned by a practice of sixty
years." United States v. Reid, 12 How. 361, 363, 366.
In 1862, Congress enacted that "the laws of the State in
which the court shall be held shall be the rules of decision as
to the competency of witnesses in the courts of the United
States in trials at common law, in equity, and in admiralty."
12 Stat. 588. By a familiar rule, the Words "trials at common
law" in this statute are to receive the construction which had
been judicially given to the same words in the earlier statute
relating to the same subject. T]e Abbotsford, 98 U. S. 440;
United States v. A ooney, 116 U. S. 104; 'In re Louisville
Underwriters,134 U. S. 488. They have received that construction in several of the Circuit Courts. United States v. Hawthorne, 1 Dillon, 422; United States v. B'own, 1 Sawyer, 531,
538; United States v. Black, 1 Fox, 570, 571. The question
has not come before this court, probably because there never
was a division of opinion ipon it in a Circuit Court, which
was the only way, until very recently, in which it could have
been brought up.
The provision, "that in the courts of the United States there
shall be no exclusion of any witness on account of color, nor
in civil actions because he is a party to or. interested in the
issue tried," was first introduced in 1864 in the Sundry Civil

OCTOBFR TERI±\,

1891.

Opinion of the 'Court.

Appropriation Act for the year ending June 30, 1865, as a
proviso to a section making an appropriation for bringing
counterfeiters to trial and punishment. Act of July 2, 1864,
c. 210, § 3; 13 Stat. 351. That proviso, as already suggested,
included criminal cases in the first clause, as distinguished
from the second. But it had no tendency to bring criminal
cases within the general provision of the act of 1862.
The proviso as to actions by or against executors, administrators or guardians, was added, by way of amendment to section 3 of the appropriation act above mentioned, by the act of
March 3, 1865, c. 113. 13 Stat. 533. This proviso had evidently no relation to criminal cases.
The combination and transposition of the provisions of 1862,
1864 and 1865, in a single section of the Revised Statutes, putting the two provisos of the later statutes first, and the general rule of the earlier statute last, but hardly changing the
words of either, except so far as necessary to connect them togatlier, cannot be held to have altered the scope and purpose
-of these enactments, or of any of them. It is not to be inferred that Congress, in revising and consolidating the statutes, intended to change their effect, unless an intention to do
so is clearly 6xpressed. Potter v. National Bank, 102 U. S.
163; XeMDonald v. Hovey, 110 U. S. ,619; Unite(l States v.
k yder, 110 U. S. 72q, 740.
It may be added that Congress has enacted that any person
convicted of perjury, or subornation of perjury, under the laws
of the United States, shall be incapable of giving testimony in
any court of the United States until the judgment is reversed;
Rev. Stat. §§ 5392, 5393; and has-made specific provisions as
to the competency of witnesses in criminal cases, by permitting
a defendant in any criminal case to testify on the trial, at his
own request; and by making the lawful husband or wife of the
accused a competent witness in any prosecution for bigamy,
polygamy or unlawful cohabitation. Act of March 16, 1878,
c. 37; 20 Stat. 30; Act of MLarch 3, 1887, c. 397; 2-4 Stat.
635.
For the,.r~asons above stated, the provision of section 858 of
the Revised Statutes, that "the laws of the State in which the

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court:

court is held shall be the rules of decision as to the competency
of witnesses in the courts of the United States in trials at common law, and in equity and admiralty," has no application to
criminal trials; and, therefore, the competency of witnesses in
criminal trials in the courts of the United States held within
the State of Texas is not governed by a statute of the State
which was first enacted in 1858, but, except so far as Congress
has made specific provisions upon the subject, is governed by
the common law, which, as has been seen, was the law of
Texas before the passage of that statute and at the time of the
admission of Texas into the-Union as a State.
At common law, and on general principles of. jurisprudence,
when not controlled by express statute giving effect within the
State which enacts it to a conviction and sentence in another
State, such conviction and sentence can have no effect, by way
of penalty, or of personal disability or disqualification, beyond
the limits of the State in which the judgment is rendered.
Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U. S.265; Commonwealth
v. Green, 17 Mass. 515; Sims v. Sims, 75 N. Y. .466; TaVtional
Trust Co. v. Gleason, 77 N. Y. 400; Story on Conflict of Laws,
§ 92; 1 Greenl. Ev. § 376. It follows that the conviction of
Martin in North Carolina did not make him incompetent to
testify on the trial of this case.
The competency of Spear to testify is equally clear. He
was convicted and s6ntenced in Texas; and the full pardon of
the Governor of the State, although granted after he had
served out his term' of imprisonment, thenceforth took away
all disqualifications as a witness, and restored his competency
to testify to any facts within his knowledge, even if they came
to his knowledge before his disqualification had been removed
by the pardon. Boyd v. United S&ates, 142 U. S.450; United
States v. Jones, (before Mr. Justice Thompson,) 2 Wheeler
Crim. Cas. 451, 461; Hunnicutt v. State, 18 Tex. App. 498;
Tkorntgn v. State, 20 Tex. App. 519.
Whether the conviction of either witness was admissible to
affect his credibility is not before us, because the ruling on
that question was in favor 'of the plaintiffs in error.
7. Another question worthy of consideration arises out of

OCTOBER TERMVY,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

the omission to deliver to the defendants lists of the witnesses
to be called against them.
Section 1033 of the Revised Statutes is as follows: "When
any person is indicted of treason, a copy of the indictment,
and a list of the jury, and of the witnesses to be produced on
the trial for proving the indictment, stating the place of abode
of each juror and witness, shall be delivered to him at least
three entire days before he is tried for the same. When any
person is indicted of any other capital offence, such copy of
the indictment and list of the jurors and witnesses shall be delivered to him at least two entire days before the trial." This
section re-enacts a provision of the first Crimes Act of the
United States, except that under that act the defendant,
if indicted for any capital offence other than treason, was not
entitled to a list of the witnesses. Act of April 30, 1790, c. 9,
§20; 1 Stat. 118.
The words of the existing statute are too plain to be misunderstood. The defendant, if indicted for treason, is to have
delivered to.him three days before the trial "a copy of the
indictment, and a list of the jury, and of the witnesses to be
produced on the trial for proving the indictment;" and if indicted for any other capital offence, is to have "such copy of
the indictment and list of the jurors and witnesses" two days
before the trial. 'The list of witnesses required to be delivered
to the defendant is not a list of the witnesses on whose testimony the indictment has been found, or whose names are
endorsed on the indictment; but it is a list of the "witnesses
to be produced on the trial for proving the indictment." The
provision is not directory only, but mandatory to the 'government; and its purpose is to inform the defendant of the testimony which he will have to meet, and to enable him to
prepare his defence. Being enacted for his benefit, he may
doubtless waive it, if he pleases; but he has a right to insist
upon it, and if he seasonably does so, the trial cannot lawfully
proceed until the requirement has been complied with. United
States v. Stewart, 2 Dall. 343; United States v. Curtis, 4 Mason, 232; United States v. Dow, Taney, 34; Regina v. Frost,
9 Oar. & P. 129'; S. C. 2 Moody, 140; Lord v. State, 18 N. H.

LOGAN

v. "UNITED. STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

173; Peoplc v. Hall, 48 Michigan, 482, 487; Xeener v. State,
18 Georgia, 194, 218.
The provision is.
evidently derived from the English statute
of 7 Anne, c. 21, § 11, by which it was enacted that, "when
any person is indicted for high treason or misprision of treason, a list of the witnesses that shall be -produced on the trial
for proving the said indictment, and of the, jury, mentioning
the names, profession and place of abode of the said witnesses
and jurors, be also given, at the same time that the dopy of
the indictment is delivered to the party indicted; and that
copies of all indictments for the.offences aforesaid, with such
lists, shall be delivered to the party indicted ten days before
the trial and in presence of two or more credible witnesses."
Upon a case brought before all the judges of England, in 1840,
in which a copy of the indictment and list of the jurors had
been delivered to the defendant fifteen days, and a list of the
witnesses to be produced on the trial had been delivered to
him, ten days before the trial, the defendant, after he had
been put upon his trial, and the jury had been sworn and
charged with him upon the indictment, objected, upon the
first witness being called and before he was sworn, that
neither that witness nor any other could be examined, because
the list of witnesses bad not been delivered to him at the same
time as the indictment and the list of jurors, as the statute of
Anne required. It was srgued for the Crown that the list of
witnesses was seasonably delivered, and that, if not, the objection should have been taken earlier. It was held, by a majority of the judges, that the delivery of the list of witnesses was
not a good delivery in point of law, but that the objection to
its delivery was not taken in due time; and the judges agreed
that, if the objection had been made in due time, the effect of
it would have been a postponement of the trial, in order to
give time for a proper delivery of the list. In the course of
the argument, Chief Justice Tindal said: "If no list had been
delivered, the Crown could not have called a single witness.")
IRegina v. Frost, 9 Car. & P. 129, 175, 187; . C.2 Moody,
140, 158, 170.
The Supreme Court of New Hampshire, in 1846, under a,
VOL. CXLV--0

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

statute providing that. "every person indicted for any offence,
the punishment of which may be death or confinement to hard
labor for life, shall be entitled to a copy of the indictment
before he is arraigned thereon; a list of the witnesses to be
used on the trial, and of the jurors returned to serve on the
same, with the name and place of abode of each, to be delivered
to him forty-eight hours before the trial," held that an objection to the list of witnesses, for want of due statement of their
places of abode, was waived if not taken until after one
witness had been called and sworn at the trial. But Chief
Justice Parker, in delivering judgment, said that if the defendant's objection was that no list such as the statute requires
had been furnished to him, "he may object, when the case is
called, to proceeding with the trial until the requisition of the
statute is complied with;" and that "undoubtedly it is competent to the respondent, when a witness is called in such a
case to be examined against him, to except that such witness
is not named in the list furnished to him, for the purpose of
excluding the testimony of that witness." N. H. Rev. Stat.
c. 225, § 3; Lord v. State, 18 N. H. 173, 175, 176.
There is no occasion to consider how far, had the government delivered to the defendants, as required by the statute,
lists of the witnesses to be produced for proving the indictments, particular witnesses, afterwards coming to the knowledge of the government, or becoming necessary by reason of
unexpected developments at the trial, might be permitted, on
special reasons shown, and at the discretion of the court, to
testify in the case.
In the present case, copies of the indictments, having endorsed on each the names of the witnesses upon whose testimony it had been found by the grand jury, were delivered to
the defendants more than two days before the trial. But no
list of the "witnesses to be produced on the trial for proving
the indictment" was ever delivered to any of them: and forty
witnesses, none of whose names were endorsed on the indictments, were called by the government, and admitted to testify,
as of course, to support the indictments and make out the case
for the government, without a suggestion of any reason for

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

not having delivered to the defendants the lists required by
the statute.
There is no pretence that there was any waiver on their
part of their right to such a list. On the contrary, -they took
the objection when the case was called for trial, and before
the empanelling of the jury; and they renewed the objection.
as soon as witnesses whose names were not endorsed on either
of the indictments were called and sworn to testify in support
of the indictments, and before any of them had given any
testimony in the case; and on each occasion -they duly took
an exception to the overruling of the objection.
The indictments charged the defendants not only with a
conspiracy, which was not a capital offence, but also with
having, in the prosecution of the conspiracy, committed a
murder, which was a capital offence. They could not therefore lawfully be put on trial, against their objection, until at
least two days after they had been furnished with a list of the
witnesses to be called against them. When they were to be
tried for their lives, they had a right to the benefit of the statute, and the refusal to accord it to them was manifest error.
It was contended on behalf of the United States- that this
error was cured by the verdict acquitting the defendants of the
capital charge, and convicting them of the lesser crime only.
The argument is that the defendants, having prevailed in
their defence against the capital charge, have not been legally
prejudiced, because they would not have been ent.'led to a
list of witnesses if they'-had been indicted and tried on -the
only charge of which they were ultimately convicted.
It may be doubted whether this is a satisfactory answer to
the objection. An indictment for a capital offence usually
includes an offence less than capital, and the defendant may
be convicted of either. For instance, one indicted of murder
may be convicted of manslaughter, or of an assault only. The
statute does not make a defendant's right to a list of the witnesses to be called against him depend upon the degree of the
crime of which upon trial he is ultimately convicted, but upon
the degree of crime for which he is indicted. The list is to bedelivered before the trial to, "any person indicted of a capital

OCTOBER TERM, 1891,
Opinion of the Court.

offence." The objection that these defendants had been furnished with no'list of the witnesses was not like an ordinary
objection to the competency of particular testimony; but it
affected the whole course of the trial, and put the defendants
in anxiety and danger of being capitally convicted until the
return of the verdict. True, the government might have
elected not to indict them for the capital offence, or might
perhaps, when the objection to the want of a list of witnesses
was first taken, have entered a nolle proseqibi of so much of
the indictment as contained the allegations necessary to make
out that offence, and unnecessary to constitute the lesser crime
of conspiracy, and have thereupon proceeded to trial without
delivering any list of the witnesses. But the government,
having elected to indict and to try the defendants for the capital crime, may well be held bound to afford them those means
of preparing their defence, which the statute required, and
which, had they been furnished, might perhaps have enabled
the defendants to secure a complete acquittal of everything
charged against them. The case bears some analogy to that
of a defendant held to answer f6r an .infamous crime without
presentment or indictment of a grand jury, of which this
court has said: "The question is whether the crime is one for
which the statutes authorize the court to award an infamous
punishment, not whether the punishment ultimately awarded
is an infamous one. When the accused is in danger of being
subjected to an infamous punishment if convicted, he has the
rignt to insist that he shall not be put upon his trial, except
on the accusation of a grand jury." Ex parte Wilson, 114
U. S. 417, 426.
It is unnecessary, however, in this case, to express a definitive opinion upon the question whether the omission to deliver
the list of witnesses to the defendants would of itself require
a reveisal of their conviction and sentence for less than a
capital offence, inasmuch as they are entitled to a new trial
upon another ground.
8. The court went too far in admitting testimony on the
general question of conspiracy.
Doubtless, in all cases of conspiracy, the act of one conspir-

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ator in the prosecution of the enterprise is considered the act
of all, and is evidence against all. Uited States v. Gooding,
12 Wheat. 40, 469. But only those acts and declarations are
admissible under this rule, which are done and made while the
conspiracy is pending, and in furtherance of its object. After
the conspiracy has come to an end, whether by success or by
failure, the admissions of one conspirator, by way of narrative
of past facts, are not admissible in evidence against the others.
1 Greenl. Ev. § 111; 3 Greenl. Er. § 94; State v. Dean, 13
Iredell, 63; Patton v. State, 6 Ohio St. 467 ; State v. Thibeau,
30 Vermont, 100; State v. Larkin, 49 N. H. 39; Heine v. Camonwealth, 91 Penn. St. 145; Davis v. State, 9 Tex. App. 363.
Tested by this rule, it is cjuite clear that the defendants on
trial could not be affected by the admissions made by others
of the alleged conspirators after the conspiracy had ended by
the attack on the prisoners, the killing of two of them, and
the dispersion of the mob. There is no evidence in the record
tending to show that the conspiracy continued after that time.
Even if, as suggested by the counselfor the United States, the
conspiracy included an -attempt to manufacture evidence to
shield Logan, Johnson's subsequent declarations that Logan
acted with the mob at the fight at Dry Creek were not in
execution or furtherance of the conspiracy, but were mere
narratives of a past fact. And the statements to the same
effect, made by Charles Marlow to his companions while returning to the Denson Farm after the fight was over, were
incompetent in any view of the case.
There being other evidence tending to prove the conspiracy,
and any acts of Logan in furtherance of the conspiracy being
therefore admissible against all the conspirators -as their acts,
the admission of incompetent evidence 6f such acts of Logan
prejudiced all the defendants and entitles them to a new trial.
Upon the other exceptions taken by the defendants to rulings and instructions at the trial we give no opinion, because
they involve no question of public interest, and may not again
arise in the same form.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded to the Circuit Court,
with directions to-set aide the verdict and to order a new,
trial.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Mv[R. JUSTICE Lm
did not concur in the opinion of the
court on the construction of section 5508 of the Revised Statutes.

MR. JUSTICE BREWER was not present at the argument, and
took no part in the decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. SANGES.
ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 1454.

Argued January 12, 13, 1892. -Decided

April 4, 1892.

A writ of error does not lie in behalf of the United States in a criminal
case.

THIS was an indictment on sections 5508 and 5509 of the
Revised Statutes, (copied ante, 264-, note,) averring that while
one Joseph Wright, a citizen of the United States, was returning to his home, after having.appeared and testified before the
grand jury of the United States, in obedience to subpoenas from
the Circuit Court of the United States, against persons charged
with violations of the internal revenue laws, and while he was
still a witness under such subpoenas, the defendants conspired
to injure and oppress him in the free exercise and enjoyment
of the right and privilege, secured to him by the Constitution
and laws of the United States, to inform the proper officers of
the United States of violations of the internal revenue laws,
and to testify under and in obedience to such subpcenas, and to
return to his home in peace and safety after so testifying, and to
be secure, safe and unmolested in his person and exempt from
violence for having exercised and enjoyed those rights and
privileges; and further averring that the defendants, in pursuance and prosecution of such conspiracy, assaulted and murdered him.
I -The defendants demurred to the indictment, "because there

