628

OCTOBER TERM, 1891:
Opinion 'of the Court.

WHITE v. RANKIN.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 259. Argued and submitted March 30,1892.-Decided April 18, 1892.

A bill in equity for.the infringement of letters patent for an invention was
in the usual form, and did not mention or refer to any contract with the
defendants for the use of the patent. There was a plea setting up an
agreement in writing between the plaintiff and one of the defendants to
assign to him an interest in the patent, on certain conditions, which
it was alleged he had performed, and certain other matters which it was
alleged had given the'defendants a right to make, use and sell the patented invention. The plea being overruled the defendants set up the
same defence by answer. To this there was a replication, and a stipulation in writing was entered into, admitting that the defendants had. made
and sold articles containing the patented inventions, and that a certain
Written agreement between the plaintiff and one of the defendants had
been made, to the purport before mentioned, and certain proceedings had
been had in pursuance thereof. Thereupon the Circuit Court entered a
decree dismissing the bill" for want of jurisdiction;" Held,
(1) The decree was erroneous, because the jurisdiction was clear on the
face of the bill, and the Circuit Court did not decide the case on
the facts contained in the stipulation, nor adjudicate on the legal
effect of those facts, while it had jurisdiction to try the case;
(2) The cases of' Wilson v. Sandford, 10 How. 99; Hartell v. Tilghman,
99 U. S. 547, and others, explained;
(3) The Circuit Court ought to have proceeded to hear the case on the
merits and the proofs put in.

TftE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. X. A. TVrecton for appellant submitted on his brief.
Mr. F'ancis J Liypitt for appellees.
filed a brief for same.

-Mr. D. Z. Smoot

LMR. JUSTICE 13LATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equicy, brought April 19, 1878, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of California,

WHITE v. RANKIN.
Opinion of the Court.

by George W. White, a citizen of California, against IrhP.
:Rankin, A. P. Brayton, John Howell and James IM. Thompson, citizens of California, for the infringement of letters
patent No. 44,145, granted to George W. White and 4ustin
G. Day, as assignees of George W. White, the inventor, Sep-.
tember 6, 1864, for seventeen years from August 23, 1864,- for
an "improved apparatus for roasting and reducing ores;" and
also for the infringement of letters patent No. 46,287, granted'
to George W. White, as inventor, iFebruary 7, 1865, for seventeen years from that day for an "improved apparatus for calcining ores'
All of the interest of Day in patent No. 44,145
was conveyed by him to White before September 20, 1876. *
The bill is in the usual form of bills in equity for the
infringement of letters patent. It alleges that the defendants,
since September 20, 1876, and before the filing of the bill,
without the license of the plaintiff and without any right so to
do, have manufactured, used and sold machines embracing
the inventions covered by both of the patents and infringing
the same. It contains no mention of, or reference to, any
contract with the defendants for. their use of either of the
patents. The prayer of the bill is in the usual form, for -a
perpetual injunction,- an account of profits, an -assessment
of damages and an increase of the latter to an amount not
exceeding three times the sum at which they shall be assessed.
It also prays for a discovery from the defendants' as to the
number of furnaces they have made since September 20, 1876,
how the same were constructed, whether they have not on
hand a large number, and how many, of such furnaces, and
how the same are constructed.
The defendants demurred to the bill on the ground that it'
showed no case for a discovery or for relief, and that the discovery demanded was in aid of the enforcement of a penalty.
The demurrer was sustained as to discovery, withf leave to the
plaintiff to amend. The bill was then amended by striking
out the prayer for an increase of damages, and by waiving all
right to a penalty.
The defendants then put in aylea to the bill, setting up that
the plaintiff, on February 13, 1875, agreed -inwriting to' assifgnh

6CTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

to the defendant Thompson a one-fourth interest in the two
patents in question, with a corresponding 6ne-fourth interest'
in all patents that the plaintiff might thereafter obtain for
improvements made by him on said inventions, and a corresponding interest in all reissues and extensions of said patents,
in case Thompson should, within sixteen months thence ensuing, elect to take the said assignment; that within the sixteen
months Thompson elected to take it, and in due time thereafter performed every act necessary to entitle himself to it,
and duly demanded of the plaintiff the execution and delivery
of the said assignment, to which Thompson became entitled as
of June 13, 1876; that the plaintiff White failing to execute
and deliver the same to Thompson on demand, the latter, on
August 31, 1876, brought suit against White in the District
Court of the 19th Judicial District of California, in and for
the city and county of San Francisco, to compel a specific
performance of the said contract and for other relief; that
White appeared and defended the suit; that the issues raised
by the pleadings were duly tried and determined by the said
District Court, which, on November 22, 1877, made a decree
containing the following findings of fact: (1) That the contract set up in the complaint of Thompson was made between
the parties; (2) that Thompson made to White a loan of
$1000, and delivered to White a note and agreement mentioned in the contract, and received from White his notes for
$1000; (3) that Thompson elected to take the assignment of
one-fourth of the patent rights mentioned in the contract, and
made known to White his said election before and upon the
expiration of the sixteen months; (4) that at the expiration
of that time, Thompson, at San Francisco, -with reasonable
diligence sought White for the purpose of demanding from
him an assignment of one-fourth of the said patent rights, and
prepared to tender and deliver to White, in payment therefor,
White's said notes and Thompson's assignment of the income
of the said one-fourth, in accordance with the terms of the
contract; (5) that White knew of Thompson's purpose and
evaded him; (6) that, at the expiration of the sixteen months,
Thompson, by writing addressed to and received by White,

WHITE v. RANKIN. ,
Opinion of the Court.

demanded an assignment of one-fourth of the said patent
rights, and offered to pay the consideration and perform the
conditions imposed upon him by the contract; (7) that, on
July 11, 1876, Thompson made to White a personal ,tender of
White's said. notes and an assignment of the income of said
one-fourth, and demanded from White an assignment of the
one-fourth; (8) that White made no objections to any of the
said offers or tenders of performance; (9) that, between
the first offers of performance anl the commencement of
that suit, on September 1, 1876, Thoiiipson made efforts to
settle the matter without litigation; (10) that Thompson, at
the expiration of the sixteen months, was, and ever since had
been and still was, willing and ready to perform the conditions on his part to entitle him to the assignment of the said
one-fourth, and in due time made tender of performance;
that, from such findings of fact, the court was of opinion, as a
conclusion of law, that Thompson was entitled to an assignment of one-fourth of said patent rights as of June 13, 1876,
and to an account; that thereupon it was decreed (1) that
White execute and deliver to Thompson a proper deed transferring and assigning to him, as of June 13, 1876, a one-fourth
interest in the two inventions secured by the said two patents,'
with a corresponding interest in all patents that White might
have obtained since February 13, 1875, or might thereafter
obtain, on improvements made .byhim on said inventions, and a corresponding interest in all reissues and extensions of said
patents; (2) that Thompson, on the delivery of such deed,
should surrender to White his said notes, and execute and de'liver to him an assignment of the income of said one-fourth;
to run for the period of two years from June 13, 1876, unless
the sum of $4000 should be sooner realized; and (3) that if
White should fail, for five days from the date of the decree
to obey it, then the clerk of the court, as special commissioner,
should execute and deliver the deed to Thompson, and receivefor White the notes and assignment of income; that it was
referred to a commissioner to ascertain and report certahi
matters, and among them the profits lost and the danmages',
sustained by Thompson since June 13, 1876 in consequence

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.'
Opinion of the Court.

of White's failure to make the assignment; that, White having fiiled for more than five days after the entry of the decree
to execute and deliver the assignment, the special comnmissioner, on January 31, 1878, received for White from Thompson the notes of White and the assignment of income
mentioned in the decree, and executed and delivered to
Thompson a deed transferring to the latter, as of June 13,
1876, a one-fourth interest in the two inventions secured by
the said two patents, with a corresponding one-fourth interest
in all patents that White might have obtained since February
13, 1875, or might thereafter obtain, on improvements theretofore or thereafter made by White on said inventions, and a
corresponding interest in all reissues and extensions of the
patents; that that deed was duly recorded in the Patent
Office; that the other commissioner, before referred to, took
depositions as to the account, and on 'October 25, 1880,
returned them and his report to the Superior Court of the
city and county of San Francisco, which by law had superseded the said District Court; that the cause came on for
hearing upon White's motion for a final decree on the report,
and, the judge who entered the decree of November 22, 1877,
being no longer on the bench, the motion was heard and
determined by a different judge, who, treating that decree as
a nullity, entered an order, on February 4, 1881, against the
objection of Thompson, setting aside and vacating all proceedings in the cause subsequent to the filing of the answer, restoring the cause to the calendar for trial, and charging Thompson
with all the. costs accrued up to the time of the order; that
afterwards, on February 15, 1881, on the motion of White and
against the objection of Thompson, the orderL of February 4,
1881, was amended so as to declare that the decree of November 22, 1877, and also the conveyance of January 31, 1878,
and all proceedings in the action subsequent to the filing of
the answer, were vacated and set aside, and the cause restored
to the calendar for trial, and that Thompson should be charged
with all the costs of the suit; that on April 5, 1881, Thompson appealed to the Supreme Court of California from the
action of the Superior Court in its orders of February 4 and

WHITE v. RANKIN.
Opinion of the Court.

15, 1881, and the appeal was undetermined and still pending;
that at the time of the grievances mentioned in the billin this
suit Thompson was, and still is, the owner of and entitled to
one-fourth of the inventions and patent rights mentioned in
the bill, and to make, -ise and vend the furnaces; and that
every furnace involving the said inventions, made, used and
sold by the defendants, was made, used and sold under Thompson's said .rightand by virtue of his authority.
The plaintiff, in August, 1883, put in a replication to that
plea. On April 1, 1884, the defendants filed a supplement to
their plea, setting forth that on June 15, 1883, the Supreme
Court of Califbrnia sustained the appeal of Thompson, reversed the said orders of the Superior Court of February 4
'and 15,.1881, and remanded the cause to that court for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion of. said
Supreme Court.
On .August 11, 1884, the Circuit Court oi the United States,
on a hearing on the supplementary plea, overruled it, with
leave to the defendants to file an amended plea. On August
25, 1884, they filed a plea setting up that Thompson, at the
time of the grievances mentioned in the bill, was and still is
the owner of and entitled to one-fourth of the inventions and
patent rights mentioned in the bill, and entitled to make, use
and vend the said furnaces; and that every furnace involving
said inventions, made, used and sold by the .defendants, was
fnade, used and sold under Thompson's said right and by vitue of his authority. To the plea a replication was filed by
the plaintiff in September, 1884. On the 29th of April, 1885,
the Circuit Court entered, an order overruling the plea and
assigning the defendants to answer the bill.
On May 29, 1885, the defendants put in an answer to the.
bill, denying that the plaintiff, since September 20, 1876, had
been and still was the xclusive owner of the two. patents,
denying that they had, without right, manufactured, used and
scld furnaces covered by said patents, denying that they had
infringed upon or violated any rights held by the plaintiff
under the patents, and setting up that the defendant Thompson was and, ever since June 13, 1876, had been, the owner of

OCTOBER -TER,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

one-fourth of the inventions covered by the patents, and that
every furnace manufactured, used and sold by the defendants,
involving the said inventions, was manufactured, used and
sold under the authority and license of Thompson as owner
aforesaid of one-fourth of said inventions. A replication was
filed to the answer in June, 1885.
On the 26th of February, 1886, a stipulation signed by the
solicitors for the respective parties was filed, headed "Stipulation of submission and agreed facts," wherein it was admitted on behalf of the defendants, that after June 13, 1876,
and before November 22, 1877, the defendants made and sold
more than four furnaces involving devices and inventions described in and covered by the two patents in question, and
that the.said making and selling were done at the instance
and by the direction of the defendant Thompson, "who asserts that he-had authority so to do under the contract, decree
and deed hereinafter mentioned." The stipulation then sets
out the agreement of February 13, 1875, between White and
.Thompson, the complaint of Thompson against White filed
August 31, 1876, in the suit in the state court, the answer of
White to that complaint, the decree of November 22, 1877,
the deed of January 31, 1878, the orders of February 4 and
15, 1881, made in the state court, the bill of exceptions for a
second appeal to the Supreme Court of California, (which contains an order made by the Superior Court of the city and
county of San Francisco, on August 26, 1884, ordering judgment in favor of Thompson against White and that White
convey to Thompson a one-fourth interest in the patents and
a corresponding one-fourth interest in all patents and patentable improvements on said inventions made by White prior to
June 13, 1876, upon the delivery by Thompson to White of
the notes mentioned in the complaint in the suit in the tate
court and the payment by Thompson to White of $4000,) the
report of the pomnmissioner in the suit of Thompson against
White as to profits and damages, and copies of the two patents. By the stipulation it was admitted by the defendants
that nothing had been paid by Thompson to White.under the
decree of August 26, 1884; and it was further agreed that

WHITE

., RANKIN.

Opinion of the Court.

the cause should be brought on for hearing upon the pleadings therein and in accordance with the terms of the stipulation.
The cause having been heard by the Circuit Court of the
United States for the'Northern District of California, to
which it had been transferred, that court entered a decree*
on October 10, 18S7, that the bill be "dismissed for want of
jurisdiction." From that decreethe plaintiff appealed to this
court. He having since died, his administrator has been substituted as appellant.
We are of opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court
must be reversed. That.decree was that the-bill of complaint
be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The jurisdiction is
clear on the face of the bill. The case stated by the bill
arises on the patents. There is no suggestion in the bill that
there was, ever any contract or agreement, or attempt to
make one, between the plaintiff and the defendant Thompson,
or that either the plaintiff or the defendants claim anything
under any contract. The averment in the bill that the defendants have made, used and sold machines containing the
patented inventions without the license of the plaintiff and
without any right so to do, cannot be regarded as raising any
question on any alleged license or contract.
The Circuit Court did not decide the case upon the facts
contained in the stipulation, nor did it adjudicate upon the
legal effect of those facts. It did not hold that those facts
were facts in the case and then dismiss the bill because the existence of those facts as facts removed the case from the
cognizance of the court. It appears to have dismissed the
bill on' the simple ground, that the defendants set up a contract of license from White. The bill being purely a bill for
infringement, founded upon patents, what was set up by the
defendants was set up as a defence -and as showing the lawful
right in them to do what they had done, and as a ground for
the dismissal of the bill because they had not infringed the
patents, although they had made and sold more than four
furnaces involvinig the inventions covered by the patents.,
The decree was not one upon the facts of the case, but was

636

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

simply a decree that the court had no jurisdiction to try the
case. The subject matter of the action, as set forth in the' bill,
gave the court jurisdiction, and exclusive jurisdiction, to try
it. All of the parties to the suit were citizens of California,
and if jurisdiction did not exist under the patent laws it did
not exist at all.
Reliance is placed by the defendants upon the cases of
ilson v. Sandford, 10 How. 99 ; lartellv. Tilghman, 99 U. S.
547; and ATlbrightv. Teas, 106 U. S. 613.
In llartell v. Tilghman, supra, the head-note of the report
is that "a suit between citizens of the same State cannot be
sustained in the Circuit Court, as arising under the patent
laws of the United States, when the defendant admits the
validity and his use of the plaintiff's letters patent, and a subsisting contract is shown governing the rights of the parties
in the use of the invention." But in the case now before the
court, the Circuit Court did not find that there was a subsisting, valid contract governing the rights of the defendants in
the use of the invention. The Circuit Court found nothing
as to the existence or validity of the contract, decree or deed,
mentioned in the stipulation. The stipulation provides that, at
the hearing, the contract, complaint, answer, decree and deed,
set forth in -the stipulation, may be offered in evidence, subject to such objections as might be urged against the originals
thereof. The stipulation further states that the defendants
do not admit that anything is due to the plaintiff from
Thompson, and that they do admit that nothing had been
paid by Thompson to the plaintiff under the decree of the
state court of August 26, 1884, and since the making thereof.
All these matters and questions ought to have been adjudicated by the Circuit Court before it could find ground to
determine whether or not it should dismiss the bill. Until it
had so adjudicated those questions, the decision in the case of
Ziartell v. Tilghman could not apply.
In that case, a reference to the bill, in the records of this
court, as filed in the Circuit Court November 2, 1874, shows
that Tilghman, in addition to setting out his patent, stated
that it had been his practice to put up uch fixtures as were

WHITE v. R ANKIN:
Opinion of the Court.

required
to work his patented invention at the premises of the
parties desiring
to obtain a license, and then to demonstrate
its practicability and instruct the parties in its use, with the
previous understanding, however, that if successful and satisfactory; the parties should then repay the expenses incurred'
by him, and execute a regular form of license contract
adopted by him; that a copy of th form of license adopted
by Tilghman at the time was annexed to his bill, and it is
there found; that about midsummer, 1873, one of the defendants applied to his agent to obtain a license to use the patented invention; that the nature of the license and agreement
issued by the plaintiff, the mode of accounting and of changing the'license rate was explained to him, and he then agreed
to execute a license and agreement accordingly; that, on the
faith of that agreement, machinery was supplied and erected
by Tilghman at the works of the defendants, and a demand
was then made by Tilghian's agent for the repayment of the
cost of the machinery and for the execution of the regular
license and agreement; that, after much delay, the cost of the
machinery was repaid to Tilghman, but the defendants on
April 25, 1874, positively refused to execute the license and
agreement, being the same issued to others in the same business; that the defendants were then served with notice to
desist from using the patent procesL • that several monthly
payments of royalty had previously been received from the
defendants on the faith of their promise to execute a regular
license and agreement; that, since their refusal so to do, the
defendants had continued to send monthly reports of 'work
done. and checks therefor to the agent of. Tilghman, . if in
payment under a license, but such checks were returned to
them, as they, had no authority to use said process; that
the right had been reserved to Tilghman and his agents, in all
licenses executed by him, to visit and inspect machines operating his said process; and that, on the 26th of June, 1874,
his agents formally applied for and were refused admission at
both factories of the defendants, the. foreman in each case
asserting the express directions of the defendant Hartell not
to admit either of them. One of the interrogatories put in

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the bill was whether a license .wasnot tendered to the defendants to execute, and whether they had not refused to execute
it. The rest of the matters in the bill were in the usual form
of a bill for the infringement of a patent.
, Thus, in that case, the plaintiff showed distinctly in his bill
that he had made an agreement with the defendants, and
under it had supplied them with machinery; that they had
used such machinery and paid him royalty for its use, and had
continued, after they refused to execute a regular license and
agreement, to send reports of work done and checks in payment therefor, as if in payment under a license; and that
they had violated a right claimed by the plaintiff and his
agents to visit and inspect machines operating his process.
Those allegations amounted .substantially to saying that what
the defendants had done they claimed to have done rightfully,
under an agreement with the plaintiff. That is a very different case. from the one stated in the bill in the present suit.
In the opinion in Hcartell v. Tilghman, it is stated that the
plaintiff in that suit set out in the bill what the court understood to be a contract with the defendants for the use by the
latter of his invention; that he declared that the defendants
had paid him a considerable sum for the machines necessary
in the use of the invention, and also the royalty which he
asked, for several months, for the use of the process secured
by the patent; and that he alleged that afterwards the defendants refused to do certain other things which he charged
to have been a part of the contract, and thereupon he forbade
them further to use his patent process and then charged them
as infringers. The Circuit Court had decidedin favor of the
plaintiff, and this court reversed the decree, with directions t
dismiss .the bill without prejudice. That was done by this
court in view of the averments of the bill, and on a consideration of the evidence in the case, as to the verbal agreement
made between the parties, and the transactions between them
which took place under it.
The case of Wilson. v. Sandford, 10 How. 99, is cited by the
court in Hartell v. Tilghman. In that case, the bill was filed
to set aside a contract which the plaintiff had made with the

WHITE v. RAXNKIN.
Opinion of the Court.

defendants for the use of machines under a patent belonging
to the plaintiff, and to restrain the use of them, as infringements; on the ground that the contract had been forfeited, by
the refusal of the defendants to comply with its conditions.
The case of Albright v. Teas, 106 U. S. 613, was the case
of a bill, where the parties were citizens of the same State,
brought in a court of that State for moneys alleged to be due
under a contract whereby certain patents granted to the
plaintiff were transferred to the defendant.' The bill prayed
for an accounting of the amounts due the plaintiff for royalties
under the contract, and for a decree therefor. The case was
removed into the Circuit Court of the United States, but that
court held, on final hearing, that it had no jurisdiction, because
the case did not arise under any law of the United States, and
remanded the case to the state court. This court affirmed the
decree, citing as authority Wilson v. Sandford, and ilartell
v. Tilghman.
In -Dale Tile 2f'f'g Co. v. -fyatt,125 U. S. 46, the cases
above referred to were reviewed, and it was stated that it had
been decided in those cases that a bill in equity in the Circuit
Court of the United States, by the owner of a patent, to
enforce a contract for the use thereof, or to set aside such a
contract because the defendant had not complied with its
terms, was not a case arising under the patent laws; and it
was said that the bill in Bartell v. Tikjhman alleged that
the defendants had broken a contract by which they ,had
agreed to pay the plaintiff a certain royalty for the use of his
invention and to take a license from him, and thereupon he
forbade them to use it, and they disregarded the prohibition.
The same view was taken of Albrighzt v. Teas.
The case of .Marshv. NTichols, 140 U. S. 344, is to the same
purport.
We are entirely satisfied that the Circuit Court ought not
to have dismissed the bill in this case for want of jurisdiction,
but ought to have proceeded to hear it upon the merits and
the proofs put in; and the decree is
Reversed, and the cause remanded to the Circuit Court with
a direction to hear it upon the merits.

