OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

contract to the prejudice of Gordon. MoZemore v. Powell, 12
Wheat. 554; Creatk's Administrator v. Sims, 5 How. 192.
The hands of the bank were not tied by anything it had
done, and Gordon could have paid the notes and sought his
remedy against Orudup & Co. at any moment. The bank
did not know that the transaction with Richmond was made to
,include these notes; but -even were this otherwise, the defeasance did not amount to a contract of extension on its part.
Nor did the evidence tend to show any agreement between
Gordon and the bank that the latter would look to the assets
of the Crudup "concerns for payment, and a loss by reason of
laches on the bank's part.
The second assignment provided that the proceeds of the
property should be to a considerable extent differently applied
than under the first one, and the bank was not a party to it.
Crudup & Co. could not resume the title to their property, and
the first assignment was operative, notwithstanding the
death of one trustee and the declination of the other. And
in any view, there was no legal suspension of the right to proceed upon the notes which would have prevented Gordon, on
taking them up, from enforcing them: The evidence was
clearly immaterial and irrelevant and properly excluded; and,
as there was no error in the rulings of the court, the judgment
must be
Aff]rmed.

CAMDEN v. STUART.
STUART v. GREENBRIER WHITE SULPHUR
SPRINGS COMPANY
APPEAtS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
Nos. 159, 643. Submitted January 18, 1892.-Decided March 1, 1892.

The trust arising in favor of creditors by subscriptions to the stock of a
corporation cannot be defeated by a simulated payment of such sub-

(A M E

v. STUART.

Statement of the Case.
scription, nor by any device short of an actual payment in good faith;
and it was not intended, by anything said in Clark v. .Bever, 139 U. S. 96;
Fogg v. Blair, 139 U. S. 118; or Handley v. Stutz, 139 U. S. 417, to overrule
this principle, or qualify it in any way, but only to draw a line beyond
which the court was unwilling to go in affixing a liability upon those
who had purchased stock of the corporation, or had taken it in good
faith in satisfaction of their demands.
Applying this rule to the testimony and mass of figures in this case, the
court affirms the judgments of the court below against stockholders in
these cases, whose subscriptions for their stock in the corporation,
defendant in error in No. 643, were shown to be in part unpaid.
There is always a presumption of the cbrrectness of a master's report; and
in view of the fact that no exception was taken to it by the plaintiff in
error in No. 159, as required by Rule 21, the court does not feel bound
to examine into the minor details of the report in this case, and
holds that that presumption overrides any effort that has been made to
show an error in this particular.
While the good-will of a business may be the subject of barter and sale,
it must be something substantial, and capable of pecuniary estimation,
and not shadowy.

Tim court stated the case as follows:
These were appeals from a decree requiring the appellant
Stuart to pay the sum of $18,937.08, and appellant Camden
the sum of $9495.12, these being the amounts unpaid upon
certain subscriptions made by them to the stock of the Greenbrier White Sulphur Springs Company.
The facts of the case were substantially as follows: On
January 30, 1880, appellants Stuart and Camden and one
George L. Peyton agreed to organize the Greenbrier White
Sulphur Springs Company for the purchase of the White
Sulphur Springs property, consisting of 1000 acres of land in
West Virginia, and an interest in 2800 acres adjoining in
Virginia, all of which was. about to be sold under a judicial
decree, rendered by the District Court of West Virginia. It
was agreed that Stuart should purchase the property individually at a price not to exceed $310,000, (subsequently increased by agreement to $340,000,) and should sell the same
to the corporation, when formed, for the sum of $390,000 and
the expenses of the sale, ($16,000,) making an increase over
the purchase piice of $66,000. Camden was to take one-half

OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

interest in the corporation, with the privilege of disposing of a
part of his interest to other parties, and. Peyton and Stuart
each one-fourth interest. Stuart bought the property at the
judicial sale for $340,000, and a charter was applied for and
granted; but as the capital stock was put at $500,000, the
company was not organized under this charter. The parties,
h6wever, took possession of the property and operated it as
a watering place durinqg the season of 1880, under the name
of the Greenbrier White Sulphur Springs Company. On
December 3, 1880, a new corporation was formed under the
same name, with a capital stock of $.150,000. A certificate
was filed, reciting that the incorporators had paid in on their
subscriptions $50,000, and desired the privilege of increasing
the said capital by sales of additional shares to $1,000,000 in
all. The capital so subscribed was divided into shares of
$100 each, and held as followsj By Stuart, Peyton, and
Henry Mv.Mathews, each 375 shares; by Camden, 188 shares;
and by William P. Thompson,. 187 shares.
On December 29, 1880, the incorporators met at the city of
Baltimore; the certificate of incorporation was accepted as
the charter of the company; the five stockholders elected
directors, of who& Stuart was elected president; and by-laws
were adopted for the government of the company. On the same
day it was unanimously resolved to increase the capital stock
of the company from $150,000 to $300,000, the certificates of
said increase to be sold at par Value, for the purpose of creating an improvement fund.
Immediately after this meeting of stockholders, they met
as a board of directors, and "the stockholders were called
upon to pay in their respective proportions of the $4000 heretofore agreed to be paid, and which when paid will be in full of
the capital stock of $150,000 provided as full paid-up stock."
On motion, "the president and secretary were authorized to
issue to the various stockholders certificates to the amount of
$150,000, of the capital stock of this company, in proportion
-to their respective subscriptions, and as in full payment of the
same." The resolution adopted at the stockholders' meeting
to increase the capital stock from $150,000 to 8300,000 was

CAMVIDEN v. STUART.
Statement of the Case.

also adopted at this meeting. Several months afterwards the
capital stock was by another resolution increased from $300,000
to $400,000.
The Springs property was turned over to the corporation by
Stuart, though it was never formally conveyed to the corporation until March 17, 1882, when a deed was executed by Stuart
and his wife for the expressed consideration of $390,194.44.
It was expressly.covenanted in this deed that a lien should be
retained upon the property conveved to secure the payment of
the balance of the purchase money remaining unpaid. The
corporation assumed the obligations of the copartnership, and
continued the business as though no change had been made.
During the season of 1880 the copartnership claimed to have
made $56,000 of profits, but the statement of the expert employed by the commissioner to whom the case was referred
showed a net profit in that year of but $4251.68, and this without taking into consideration a large number of outstanding
nots of the company. During the season of 1881 the balance
sheet of the company showed a profit of a little less than $10,000, while on December 1, 1881, there were outstanding notes
of the company to the amount of $114,294.39. This sum did not
include the open accounts of the company. On April 15, 1882,
there were notes outstanding to the amount of $172,016.18.
The season of 1882 was a failure, and early in the fall of that
year the company collapsed, owing, including the vendor's lien,
$891,862.16, as reported by the commissioner.
On February 9, 1882, at a meeting of the board of directors,
it was ordered that coupon bonds to the amount of $200,000
be sold at not less than fifty cents on the dollar, and also
$100,000 of stock be sold at par, the two, stock and bonds, to
be sold together; that is, each purchaser of $100 worth of stock
at par to take bonds to the amount of $200, at not less than
fifty cents on the dollar; and that said bonds be secured by a
deed of trust on all the property of the company, with the exception of a lot of not more than two acres near the depot.
It was further ordered that the president take the necessary
steps to get in the legal title of the company to the real estate;
and that "the present stockholders shall have the privilege of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

taking said stock and bonds in amounts proportioned to the
stock now held by them, and should any of the stockholders
decline to buy, then the others shall have the right to take
their shares, and only in the event that any of said stock and
bonda are not taken by the present stockholders they shall be
sold to outside parties."
On April 6 the stockholders met at White Sulphur Springs
and confirmed this action of the board; directed the president
to execute a deed of trust to secure the bonds and interest tP
William W. Gordon and Isaac H. Carrington, trustees; and
also fixed upon May.1, 1882, as the date when the option to
take the stock and bonds reserved to the 'stockholders should
expire. At a further meeting of the board of directors on
April 25 this option was further extended to May 15. At a,
meeting on the following dayit was further resolved that the
president af his earliest convdnience place in the hands of John
P. Branch $50,000 of the coupon bonds of the company, and
$25,000 of stock of the company, and. that "he deliver to W.
A. Stuart a ike amount of the stock and bonds-of .the company, to be p ced or disposed af by-them in accordance with
resolutions heretofore adopted." Stuart received his $50,000
of bonds and $25,000 of stock, and paid for them with $50,000
of the 6bligations ot the company, upon which he was individually bound as endorser, and which he had purhased at fifty
cents on the dollar.
This litigation, began on April 10, 1883, by a bill filed by
Stuart against the Sulphur Springs Company and Gordon and
Oarrington, trustees, to enforce a sale of the property covered
by the trust deed, in satisfaction both of his own claim, as
holder of fifty thousand dollars of the bonds secured -by such
deed, and of such other claims and demands against the company as might be proved, in the order of their priority. Be
prayed for a reference to a commissioner to take an account
of all the property of the company and the liens thereon, their
amounts, character and priority, the names of the stockholders,
the number of shares owned by each, the par value of the
same, and the amount due and unpaid by each of the stockholders. He further prayed for a report of all the unsecured

CAMDEi v. STUART.
Opinion of the Court.

claims and demands against the company, for a sale of the
property, and that the proceeds be applied to the satisfaction
of the liens thereon, and for a receiver.
Subsequently, and on September 3, 1885, William Knabe &
Co. intervened in this suit by petition, claiming an indebtedness against the company of $518.63, and prayed to be allowed
to contest the validity of the deed of' trust, and have the
property thereby conveyed subjected to the payment of all
the debts of the company without, preference, except for the
debt due for the purchase money of the real estate, and that
proper orders be made for the purpose of securing the rights
of the creditors against the stockholders in respect to their
subscriptions to the stock of the company. P'etitioner also
prayid that the trust deed be declared null and void, and the
property subjected to the payment of the debts of the company.
By consent of parties the two cases were heard together, the
deed of trust was decreed to be null and void, and the bill filed
by Stuart dismissed. No appeal was taken from this order of
dismissal. The court further ordered, upon the, report of the
special commissioner, the payment by Camden of $9495.12,
and by Stuart of $18,937.08, as of December 30, 1880, to
the. Sulphur Springs Company, as the 'unpaid subscriptions
to the capital stock. of such company. From this decree 'both
paties appealed to this court.
"-Mr. J.-Holdsworth Gordon for Camd.en.
.Mr. Alexander -F. .Mathewsfor Stuart.
.XP. Tazewell Ellett, .Mr. H. H .Marshalland -Mr. Assistant Attorney General -Mawuy for the Greenbrier .White Sulphur Springs Company.

MR.JusTICm

BRowx delivered the opinion of the court.

The single question involved in these appeals is whether the
defendants Stuart and Camden can be called upon to pay in
their proportions of unpaid subscriptions to the capital stock of
the White Sulphur Springs Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The capital stock of this company was fixed at $150,000,
and the certificate of incorporation of December 3, 1880, stated
that $50,000 had been "paid in on said subscriptions."
(1) As to defendant Stuart.
Stuart's answer, in this connection, avers that "it is true, as
stated in the application for the charter, that $50,000 of said
capital stock had then been paid in, but in making said statement it was not intended to say that no more than that amount
had been paid in, the fact being that prior to the date of said
application (3d December, 1880) there had been paid up in
cash, on account of the subscriptions to said capital stock, at
least the sum of $70,000. Your respondent is under the impression that it was from $75,000 to $80,000. He knows that
he had himself paid at least $17,500 on account of his own
subscription, and the same amount on account of the subscription of his co-defendant, George L. Peyton, for whom
he advanced the money, and he has no reason to doubt that
the other stockholders put in like proportion on account of
their subscriptions." He denied that any part of the subscription remained unpaid, and averred that full-paid shares had
been legally and properly issued to the subscribers.
Mr. Gallaher, the master, to whom the case was first
referred, reported upon this point as follows:
"Mr. Stuart states that between $75,000 and $80,000 had
been paid in. Mr. Peyton states that on each I there had been
paid in about $17,500, or $70,000 in all. Mr. Stuart and Mr.
Peyton state that the profits of the season of 1880 were, as
shown upon the books, to have been $56,000. The theory
was, these amounts having been paid in, together with the
$4000, making in all cash $130,000 according to Mr. Peyton's
calculation, and about $140,000, according to Mr. Stuart, the
incorporators considered that they had a property with a paying
and earning capacity of $56,000 the first year of their venture.
The property had been improved, enlarged and was enhanced in
value and reputation as a springs resort. They estimated that
their time, labor and talents were worth something, and they
determined to increase the stock -$150,000 more, making it in
all $300,000, and, as the witness Stuart states, were negotiat-

CAMDEN v. STUART.
Opinion of the Court.

ing for such increased stock. They estimated another element
of value, viz.: the long time their vendor had given them on
the deferred payments. They estimated their assets as worth
$150,000 and started business. It seems to me it was worth
it at the time. The creditors seem also to have thought so
when they dealt with them. Without further comment I
report that all of the $150,000 original stock was paid up."
Upon the argument of exceptions to this report, it was
ordered that it be referred to Mr. Leake, another master
residing at Richmond, who reported upon the same subject as
follows:
"Prior to the formation of the company the .corporators
had paid into the business of the ' Greenbrier White Sulphur
Springs Company,' as it did business in 1880, the sum of
$50,000,. and this money had been expended in permanent
improvements and furniture, etc., and composed a part of the
assets of the concern at the end of the year 1880.

.

.

.

On

December 30,'1880, a call was made for $5000 from Stuart,
-Peyton, Mathews, Thompson and Camden jointly, and they
paid. these -calls at once, except as to H:.MT. Mathews, who
only paid $4000, thus making in all $69,000, or money, or
money's worth, actually paid in. on account of said stock subscription."
He then recites the resolution of December 30, calling upon
the stockholders to pay in their proportions of the $4000,
heretofore agreed to be paid in full of the capital stock of
$150,000, and that authorizing the .president and secretary to
issue certificates for that amount, and says:
"These resolutions were based upon an erroneous balance
sheet or statement of the business of the parties -called the
Greenbrier White S. S. Co. for the year 1880, by which it was
made to appear that there had been made a profit of $80,000
by said business during that year, which with the $70,000 paid
in said business and to be paid in to the company, would have
made an-input of $150,000, the amount of said stock.
"But said statement -was far from correct. Instead of a
profit of $80,000, the real profit for the said year 1880 was
only $4-251.6.8.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

"I report, therefore, that the original subscribers to the
stock have paid in and owe still the following sums:
"1. Win. A. Stuart subscribed for 375 shares.....$37,500 00
Faid in old business ..............
"
company .................
His fourth of profits .............

$12,500 00
5,000 00
1,062 92
18,562 92

$18,937
":Balance due by him ..............
18,937
"2. Geo. L. P~yton for like sum .................
"3. H. M. Mathews for like sum and an additional
$1,000, as he only paid $4,000 on the $5,000
19,937
called ..................................
Camden on his 180 shares paid in like pro"4. J. NST.
9,495
portion and owes in like manner ...........
"5. W. P. Thompson on his 187 shares paid in like
9,441
manner and owes in like manner ..........
"Total indebtedness ............

08
08

08
12
96

$76,748 32

"And this should bear interest from Dec. 30, 1880, when it
was held out to the world as having been paid in.
"Each of the original subscribers is bound for the unpaid
part of his subscription. The capital stock was afterwards
increased under the resolutions under which the deed of trust
of April 6, 1892, to Carrington and Gordon, trustees, was
executed; but I have already reported in regard to the stock
issued thereunder."
It will be observed in connection -with these reports that the
two masters to whom these cases were referred agreed substantially in holding that about $70,000 was paid in on the
capital stock, Stuart's proportion of which would be $17,500,
and that their divergence of opinion arose over the alleged
subsequent payments. Mr. Gallaher reported in regard to
these that the $56,000 of profits of the season of 1880 should
be treated as a part of the capital stock, and this, with the
$4000 and the $70,000 originally paid in, would. make
$130,000 cash subscriptions, and upon that theory found that

CAMDEN v. STUART.

.113

Opinion of the Court.

the entire capital stock had been paid in. Before the second
report was made the question of this $56,000 of profits was
referred to an expert accountant, who reported that the real
profits of the year 1880 were only $4251.68, Stuart's proportion
of which was $1062.92.
It is very difficult to ascertain from the mass of figures and
testimony upon this subject the exact status of this company
at the close of the year 1880, when the corporation was organized. It does, however, appear very clear that, conceding
that $70,000 in money had been paid into the capithl stock of
the company, and $56,000 of profits had also been realized,
there was less than $1200 in money remaining December 31,
and in addition thereto there was a large increase of indebtedness during that year. Indeed from the beginning of the
business in the spring of 1880, to its close in the autumn of
1882, there was a constantly increasing indebtedness.
Assuming that'there was $70,000 paid in before the corporation was formed, which is $20,000 more than was claimed
in the articles of incorporation to have been paid in, it is evident that, if it were paid in cash, it was immediately paid out
for furniture, permanent improvements, etc., and that there
was little, if any, money left at the end of the season. There
is, then, aprimafacie liability on the part of the defendants
to pay each his proportion of the remaining $80,000 and the
real question in this case is whether this has ever been paid or
accounted for in such a manner as to. operate as a satisfaction
of the claim. In view of our decisions in &rIwyer v. Toag, 17
Wall. 610; &covillv. Thayer, 105 U. S. 143, and the numerous
cases arising out of the failure of the Great Western Insurance
Company, it is manifest that the resolution adopted at the
directors' meeting of December 29, 1880, that upon payment
of $4000, or their proportions of the same, the capital stock
of $150,000 should be deemed to be fully paid, was wholly
ineffectual as against the creditors of .the company. It is the
settled doctrine of this court that the trust arising in favor of
creditors by subscriptions to the stock of a corporation cannot
be defeated by a simulated payment of such subscription, nor
by any device short of an actual payment in good faith.. And
VOL. Cxmv-8

OCTOBER TER!,

1891.

Opinion of "the Court.

while any settlement or satisfaction of such subscription may
be good as between the corporation and the stockholders, it
is unavailing as against the claims of the creditors. Nothing
that was said in the recent cases of Clark v. Bever, 139 U. S.
96; Fogg v. Blair, 139 U. S. 118; or Handley v. Stutz, 139
U. S. 417, was intended to overrule or qualify in any way the
wholesome principle adopted by this court in the earlier cases,
especially as applied to the original subscribers to stock. The
later cases were only intended to draw a line beyond which
the court was unwilling to go in affixing a liability upon those
who had purchased stock of the corporation, or had taken it
in good faith in satisfaction of their demands.
It is, however, claimed that during the season of 1880, in
addition to the real estate already purchased, there was furniture contributed to the amount of $53,834.78, and permanent improvements made to the amount of $42,000, making a
total of over $95,000, which should be added to the $50,000
represented by the certificate of incorporation to have been
paid into the company. No claim of this kind is made in
Stuart's- answer, and in view of the $70,000 which is said to
have been paid in cash, it may be safely assumed that, if this
money were paid at all, of which there seems to be some
doubt, it went in this direction, and that, having been once
credited to the subscribers in the form of money, it cannot be
credited again in the form of assets for which this money was
paid.
So far as concerns the profits of $56,000 claimed to have
been made during the season of 1880, the evidence is very
unsatisfactory. These profits were stated at this sum by the
book-keeper of the concern under an instruction of the manager, to make out as good a showing as he could for them, to
aid in the appreciation of the stock of the new corporation a method of estimating profits which throws very considerable
doubt upon the accuracy of the result. An expert accountant
acting under the direction of the commissioner after a careful
examination of the books, found these profits to amount to
$4251.68, which was allowed by the master in computing the
amount due by the several parties upon their subscriptions.

CAMDEN v. STUART.
Opinion of the Court.

A suggestion is made in the brief of Mr. Camden's counsel
that the expert erred in charging certain items to the account
of expenses, but in view of Rule 21 of this court, which requires
that "wheii the error alleged is to a ruling upon the report of
a master, the specification shall state the exception to the
report and the action of the court upon it," we do not feel
called upon to examine into the minor details of this report.
There is a presumption of its correctness which overrides any
effort that has been made to show an error in this particular.
The experience and good-will of the partners, which it is
claimed were transferred to the corporation, are of too unsubstantial and shadowy a nature to be capable of pecuniary
estimation in this connection. It is not denied that the goodwill of a business may be the subject of barter and sale as
between the parties to it, but in a case of this kind there is no
proper basis for ascertaining its value, and the claim is evidently an afterthought. The same remark may be made with
regard to the contract of January 30, and the loss of time and
trouble to which the parties were subjected, which are now
claimed to be elements of value in the property contributed to
the corporation, but of which no account was made at the
time.
(2) As to defendant Camden.
The answer of Camden to the bill or petition of Knabe &
Co. averred that "the total cost of improvement, betterments
and new furniture amounted to a large sum, of which there
was paid in cash by the parties interested in said purchase
about 870,000;11 that the business yielded a net profit of
about $56,000 for the season, which amount was also appropriated and devoted to the improvement and enhancemer t in
value of the said property, the parties in interest havig ll
given largely of their time and attention to the developmen
of the said property without charge for the time, expenses
and labor in connection with the same; "that the whole transaction was made in good faith, and, as he considered, a plain,
legitimate business transaction; thatthe parties had full right
to sell the property to the corporation at a fair and reasonable
price to be agreed upon by respondent, and his co-purchasers

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Qpinion of the Court.

under the said contract were so advised by able counsel, and
the resolution. passed by the board of directors of said company making such purchase was prepared by John K. Cowen,
their legal adviser, and was adopted and ratified by the said
company in full directors' meeting, and ordered to be spread
upon the records of said company." Annexed to his answer
was a copy of this resolution, the original of which, he said,
was filed with his deposition in a chancery suit in the Circuit
Court of Augusta County, Va. By this instrument it appears
to have been resolved:
"1. That in consideration of the transfer to this company
of the contract with said W. A. Stuart, and also of all the
improvements, furniture and personal property of all descriptions placed by said J. N. Camden and his associates upon said.
premises, this company do agree for the consideration aforesaid to accept the same in full payment of the unpaid balances
by said J. N. Camden and on their several subscriptions to the
capital stock of this company as set forth in the certificate of
incorporation.
"2. Resolved, that when said transfer of the contract and
property aforesaid is duly made to this company, there shall
be issued to the parties named in the foregoing resolution certificates of fully paid up stock for the amount which they have
respectively subscribed, as set forth in the certificate of incorporation aforesaid."
This resolution was annexed to the sworn answer of Camden, but is not shown to have been actually passed, is not
made an exhibit in the case, and does not appear in the additional record stipulated into the case, which purports to
contain a copy of the minutes of all the meetings of said
company, and of the board of directors thereof.
It is somewhat singular, too, that this resolution, which
Camden avers to have been adopted at the directors' meeting
at Barnum'g Hotel, in Baltimore, was not set up or proved by
Stuart, to whom it was equally available, and did not make
its appearance until December, 1887, more than four years
after this suit was begun, after all the testimony had been
taken, and within a few days before the case was finally sub-

CAMDEN

v. STUARIT.

Opinion of the Court.

mitted to the court for adjudication.

It is absolutely incon-

sistent with the resolution adoptfed by the board on the same
day, December 29, 1880, calling upon the stockholders to pay
in their proportions of the $40.00 agreed to be paid in full of
the capital stock, and under the circumstances nothing can
be claimed in virtue of it.
Defendant Camden also claims the right to set off as against
his indebtedness upon the stock the sum of $10,281.56, paid
by him in a suit against him and Stuart to recover the price
of furniture in the hotel, of which the company received the
benefit, and which furniture is a part of the property contributed to the coporation. This payment, however, added nothing to the assets of the company. The furniture itself was a
part of such assets, and was taken into consideration when the
valuation of December 3, 1880, was made, and it was held
correctly by the court below that, "as he has already been
allowed the value of that furniture in his original payment; t6
allow this claim would be to credit him twice for the same
thing." If -a person should buy upon credit a certain piece of
property, such, for instance, as a steamboat, and should turn
it over to a corporation and receive certificates of stock representink its value, it would scarcely be claimed that when he
paid his original vendor he should receive additional stock to
the amount of such payment. In this case Camden purchased
the furniture, turned it over to the company, and is presumed
to have received stock proportioned to his contribution.
We have been much embarrassed in the consideration of this
case by the want of the assignment of errors required by Rev.
Stat. see. 997, and the twenty-first rule of this court, and
should have felt ourselves justified upon that ground in refusing to take cognizance of the case. We have, however,
examined the evidence so far as 'it bears upon the question
of these defendants' liability upon their stock subs'criptions,
and have found it confusing and unsatisfactory. Indeed,
the vital question whether lhe capital stock of this corporation was ever paid in money or money's worth is so covered
up and obscured by a multiplication of figures and an entanglement of details that it is almost impossible to arrive at

OCTOBER TERTV1, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the exact truth. From this testimony, however, one thing
clearly appears, viz.: that the company was incorporated with a
capital stock of $150,000, and that the stockholders were content to put a valuation of $50,000 upon what had been put
in at the time the company was formed. As there was apparently no motive for underestimating this value, in the absence
of clear proof to the contrary, the court would be justified in
accepting it as the correct valuation of the property turned
over to the company. Goit v. Gold Amalgamating Co., 119
U. S. 343. But, in view of the finding of the masters that
$70,000 had been paid in we are content to accept this as the
true amount. As no further assessments or calls appear by
the minutes of the corporation to have been made, except the
$4000 which was to be in full of the balance of the subscription, the burden of proof is upon the defendants to show how,
if at all, the residue of this subscription was paid. The other
fact, that the call of $4000 was made for the purpose of completing the subscription of $100,000, and to be in full thereof,
indicates that the directors considered their entire duty in
regard to the payment of the capital stock to have been discharged. We have alreadyheld that this payment&of $4000
was unavailing as against the creditors' claims. If any further payments were made, defendants should make it appear
clearly and satisfactorily. They failed to satisfy the master,
to whom the case was referred. They failed to satisfy the
court below. They have failed to convince us. In lieu of
the evidence which the nature of the case required, they have
.presented us a complicated mass of testimony, and have asked
us to evolve from it sufficient to support their theory that, in
:some manner, of which apparently they have no clear comprehension, these subscriptions were paid.
In cases of this kind, referred to a master to state an account, depe.nding, as they do, upon an examination of books,
upon the oral testimony of witnesses, and, perhaps, as in this
case, upon the opinions- of an expert, "his conclusions have
every reasonable presumption in their favor, and are not to be
set aside or modified unless there clearly appears to have been
error or mistake on his part." This was the rule laid down

LACASSAG-E v. CHAPUIS.
Opinion of the Court.

by this court in Tilghman v. Proctor, 125 U. S. 136, and
approved in Callaghian v. .Myers, 128 U. S. 611, 666, and in
Kimberly v. Arms, 129 U. S. 512. See also Dean v. Emerson, 102 Mlass. 480; .McDonough v. 0'NLeil, 113 Mass. 92. We
see no reason for departing from it, and think this- is a proper
case for its application.
Upon the whole, .we agree with the Circuit Court upon the
points involved in these appeals, and the decree of that court
-Afrmed.

is therefore

LACASSAGNE v. CIAPUIS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 188. Submitted March 1, 1892.-

STATES FOR

Decided March 21, 1892.

Under a writ of possession, on a judgment entered in January, 1886, in a suit
brought in a Circuit Court of the United States by C. against Al. in March,
1884, L. was evicted from land, and the agent of C. was put in possession.
L. was in possession under a sheriff's deed made in August, 1885, under
proceedings in another suit against M. L. brought a suit in equity, in the
same Circuit Court, in April, 1886, against F. as testamentary executor, of
C. and individually, to have the suit of C. declared a nullity, for want of
jurisdiction, and because L. was not a party to it, and for an injunction
restraining F. and the agent of C. from molestihg L. in the possession of
the land. On demurrer to the bill: Held,
(1) The case was not one for a suit in equity;
(2) The possession of L. was that of M.; and L. as a purchaser pendente
lite, was subject to the operation of the writ of possession;
(3) The proper decree was to dismiss the bill, without- prejudice to an
action at law.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.A1r.Aylfed Goldthwaite for appellant.
.r.

A. H. Leonard and Mr. Yorris i a'rks for appellee.

MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity brought by a -bill filed April 15,
1886, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western

