OCTOBER TERMit, 1891.
Syllabus.

Cavailhez, parties to the suit she brought, and their rights as
such creditors were not affected by the decree in that suit.
As to the allegation in the bill that the court was without
jurisdiction of the suit brought by the widow Cav6, because
she alleged falsely therein that she was a citizen of France,
when in fact she was a citizen of Louisiana, and thus the court
had no jurisdiction of the suit as between her and Marceline
Cavailhez, that question cannot be raised and adjudicated in
this suit. By the record of the former suit, there appeared to
be jurisdiction, and the plaintiff cannot question it by means of
this suit, when the question is not raised by Marceline Cavailhez, who was the defendant in the former suit.
Although the present suit is one between two aliens, yet inasmuch as it is brought in the same Circuit Court in which the
former decree was rendered, and to impeach that decree, we
think that the court had jurisdiction. That being so, it had
authority to make a decree on the merits.
The decree dismissing the bill absolutely must be so modified as to declare that it is without prejudice to an action at
law, and, as so modified, it is affirmed, with costs. HorgSnrg
v. Baker, 1 Pet. 232; Barney v. Baltimore City, 6 Wall.
9,80; Kendig v. Dean, 97 U. S. 423; Rogers v. Durant,106
U. S. 644; Scott v. .Neely, 140 U. S. 106, 117.
-Decreea/rmed as modiyed.

TRIPP v. SANTA ROSA STREET RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 197.-

Submitted March 9, 1892. -Decided

March 21, 1892.

Service of citation by a plaintiff in error upon the defendant in error by
depositing in the post-office a copy of the same, postage paid, addressed
to the attorney of the defendant in error at his place of abode, is an insufficient service.
The decision of the Supreme Court of a State in a case in' which applica-

TRIPP v. SAITA ROSA STREET RAILROAD.

127

Opinion of the Court.
tion for removal to the Circuit Court of the United States had been
made in the trial court and denied, that, as no appeal was prosecuted
from the final judgment, the brder denying the application to remove
was not open to review, and its judgment thereupon dismissing the appeal from the orders refusing to set aside the judgment of the court
below, rest upon grounds of state procedure, and present no Yederal
question.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
.

r. Philvp G. Ga4in for plaintiff in error.

No appearance for defendants in error.
YM.

CmnF Jus~ron, FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
We gather from the record that this was an action of ejectment commenced March 9, 1881, in the Superior Court in and
for the county of Sonoma, California, against some one
thousand defendants, of whom two or three hundred, having
filed separate answers to the complaint, were awarded
separate trials which were set down for December 13, 1881,
and by the court continued until the 14th. On that day
a motion by plaintiff for a continuance, on affidavit, was made
and overruled, whereupon a petition and bond for the removal
of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of California were filed by the plaintiff.
This application, after argument and c6nsideration, was denied December 15, 1881, as to each of the defendants who
had obtained separate trials, on the ground that it was made
too late, and the cases as to them, being called for trial, were
severally dismissed for want of prosecution.
Upon the third of January, 1882, plaintiff filed motions to
set aside the several orders of dismissal, bnd to vacate the
orders denying the application for removal, ahd these motions
were heard and denied on February 13, 1882. Plaintiff thereupon gave notice of appeal to the Supreme Court of California
from the orders of the Superior Court made on February 13,
and the appeals, having been prosecuted, were dismissed by

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

that court on May 26, 1886, and to review that judgment this
writ of error was sued out.
The Supreme Court held that plaintiff should have appealed
from the judgments of the Superior Court dismissing the suit,
and that had such appeal been taken the order of refusal to
transfer to the Circuit Court of the United Stateg might have
been considered, but as there was no appeal from the final
judgments the court could not review that order. The writ
of error from this court was allowed February 24, 1888, by
the chief justice of the state Supreme Court by whom a citation was signed.
The only proof of service of this citation is an affidavit that
notice of citation was given to defendants' attorneys, "by
depositing in the post-office at San Francisco, Cal., a copy of
said citation, postage paid, addressed to said attorneys at their
respective plaees, to wit: [Here follow names of the attorneys
as residing at Santa Rosa,] all of the county of Sonoma, on
the 29th day of September, A.D. 1888; that on the day of said
service there was a regular communication, by mail between
San Francisco and Santa Rosa."
The appearance of none of the defendants in error has been
entered in this court, nor does the record disclose any notice
of the pendency of the writ, or waiver thereof.
Assuming the sufficiency of the affidavit, and that it established what would be a proper service under the laws of California, (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 1012, 1013; 3 Deering Codes
and Statutes, 416,) in respect of which we express no opinion,
the question presents itself whether such a service of citation
to this court can be sustained. The statute provides that "the
adverse party shall have at least thirty days' notice," Rev.
Stat. § 999; and the citation is a summons to bring him in,
which, under subdivision five of rule eight, must be served
before the return day. Service may be had upon his attorney
or- counsel with like effect as upon the party himself, but
when counsel of record is dead, it cannot be served on his
personal representative, nor even on his partner if not regularly appearing on the record as counsel in the cause. Bacon
v. Hart, 1 Black, 38. No attorney or solicitor can withdraw

TRIPP v. SANTA ROSA STREET RAILROAD.

129

Opinion of the Court.

his name after he has once entered it upon the record, without
*the leave of the court; and while his name continues there the
opposite party has a right to treat him as the authorized attorney or solicitor and the service of notice upon him is valid.
United States v. Curry, 6 How. 106. In Faifax v. -Fairfaxs,
5 Cranch, 19, 21, where the defendant below intermarried
after the judgment and before the service of the writ of error,
the service of the citation upon the husband was held sufficient.
The necessity of the actual issue and actual service of citation, except in cases of appeals allowed in open court, and in
the absence of equivalent notice or waiver, is reiterated in
many cases, while much liberality is exercised in permitting
service to be made during the return term, or a new citation
to be issued, where the circumstances invoke the discretion of
the court. Rewitt v. -Filbert,116 U. S. 142; Dayton v. Lash,
94-U. S.112.
The citation maybe waived by a general appearance, Villabolos v. United States, 6 How. 81, 90; or by the acceptance of
service of a defective citation, Bigler v. Waller, 12 Wall. 142;
or by action equivalent to the acknowledgment of notice,
aoodlwin v. Fox, 120 U. S. 775.
But none of the cases give color to the view that the service
or acknowledgment or'waiver can be other than personal on
or by the party or his attorney.
By the thirteenth equity rule it is provided that "the service
of all subpoenas shall be by a delivery of a copy thereof by
the officer-serving the same to the defendant personally, or by
leaving a copy thereof at the dwelling house or usual place of
abode of each defendant, with some adult person who is a
member or resident in the family;." and service of citation
upon parties in this way would doubtless be sufficient. But
we cannot be governed in the matter of our own process by the
varying laws of the States and Territories upon the subject,
and actual notice, or notice directed by rule or special order,
must be shown before we can treat parties as properly in
court.
This case has been upon our docket since October 9, 1888,
voL. cXTV-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

and been reached for argument and submitted upon a brief
filed for plaintiff in error. It is now too late to assert jurisdiction over defendants in error, and the writ of error must
therefore be dismissed.
We should add that the same result would follow if the citation had been duly served, as the record presents no Federal
question upon which to maintain our jurisdiction.. The decision of the Supreme Court of California that, as no appeal was
prosecuted from the final judgments, the order denying the
application to remove was not open to review, and its judgment thereupon dismissing the appeal from the orders refusing
to set aside the judgments of the court below rest upon grounds
of state procedure with which it is not our province to interMrit of emor dismissed.
fere.

HALEY v. BREEZE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 211.

Submitted March 15, 1892. -Decided March 21, 1892.

This writ of error is dismissed because the record presents no Federal question properly raised, jnd because the judgment of the state court rests
upon an independent ground, broad enough tb maintain it, and involving
no Federal question.

THE. plaintiff in error, as plaintiff below, filed a bill in a
District Court in a county in Colorado, to resttain the collection of taxes which had been assessed against him. An injunotion being refused, he filed a second bill, in another court in
another county, seeking the same remedy. An injunction
being issued there, the cause was taken to the Supreme Court
of the State, where the decree was reversed and the injunction
dissolved. The following extracts from the opinion of the
court, found in the record, show the grounds upon which that
decree, to which this writ of error was sued out, rested.
"The record discloses that the appellee, Haley, has instituted

