OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

OKATEAUGAY ORE AND IRON COMPANY v.
BLAKE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 189. Argued March 4, 7, 1892.-Decided April 11, 1892.

B. contracted with C. to construct and put up for him a crushing plant,
with a guaranteed capacity of 600 tons daily, and 0. agreed to pay therefor $25,000, one-half on presentation of the bills of lading and the
remainder when the machinery should be successfully running. The
machine was completed and put in operation October 1. The agreed
payment of $12,500 was made on delivery, and $7500 in three payments
in the course of a month. B. sent a man to superintend the putting up
of the machine and to watch its working. Under his directions a book
was kept in which were recorded either by himself or under his directions by C.'s foreman, the daily workings of the machine between October 18 and November 7, which account was copied by B.'s man and
sent to B. The working from November 7 to the following March was
also kept in the same way. In an action by B. against C. to recover the
remainder of the contract price; Held,
(1) That B.'s man could use these books in his examination in chief to
assist him in testifying as to the actual working of the machine fromOctober 18 to November 7;
(2) That the defendant not having introduced the books, (which were in
his possession,) in his evidence in reply to the plaintiff's evidence in
chief, could not, in rebuttal, ask a witness to examine them and state
the results as to the workin4 of the machine in the months of November, December and January, which subjects had not been inquired about
by the plaintiff.
Evidence of a local custom is not admissible unless it is shown to be known
to both parties; and this court inay infer, from the general course of
the inquiries and proceedings at the trial, that a custom inquired of at
the trial'and so excluded, was regarded by the court and by both parties
as a local custom, and not as a general custom, although the record may
contain nothing positive on that point.
An exception that the court did not charge either of eighteen enumerated
requests for special instructions except as it had charged is an insufficient exception.

THE court stated the case as follows:

CHATEAUAY IRON CO. v. BLAKE.
Statement of the Case.

The defendant in error, plaintiff below, is a manufacturer,
engaged in the manufacture and sale of a crushing machine
known as the "Blake" crusher. Plaintiff in error, defendant
below owns and operates a large mine of iron ore in Clinton
County, New York. In 1881 and 1882 plaintiff built for
defendant a crushing mill.of .00 tons capacity per day, which
was accepted by the defendant and. satisfactorily used for
years. The operation of this crusher and its adaptability to
the business necessities of the defendant were thus fully disclosed to the latter by its experience of these years. With
this experience and knowledge, the following contract was
entered into between the parties:
"Memorandum of agreement made and entered into this 26th
day of March, 1886, between Theodore A. Blake, of New
Haven, Conn., and the Chateaugay Ore & Iron Co., of
Plattsburg, New York.
"Theodore A. Blake, party of the first part, in consideration of one dollar to him in hand paid and of other considerations, covenants and agrees to-furish the Chateaugay Ore &
Iron Co. with a crushing plant, guaranteeing capacity of six
hundred tons daily, crushed -to pass through a round hole
-ths of an inch in diameter, consisting of the necessary crushers, screens, elevators, shafting, hangers, pulleys, couplings,
collars and belts, in accordance with the specifications hereunto annexed and drawings already submitted, delivered free
on board cars at places of manufacture, together with full
detailed plans of building for said crushing plant and arrangement of crushing machinery therein, and that he will send.,a
competent man to superintend the placing and erection of the
machinery without extra charge, except for board and travelling expenses, and an experienced man to put on all belts, on'
same terms, for the sum of twenty-five thousand five hundred
dollars.
"And :.he said Chateaugay Ore & Iron Co., party of the
second.part, in consideration of the premises and other considerations, agrees to pay the said Theodore A. Blake or his
order one-half the amount, viz., twelve thousand seven hun-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

dred and fifty dollars, on presentation of the bills of ladiug
for the sixteen crushers at the said company's office and the
remainder when the machinery is successfully running.
" THEODORE A. BLAKE,
" CHATEAUGAY ORE & IRON CO.,

"By A. L. IhAN, Gen'i X'g'r."
The first half of the purchase price was paid at the stipulated time. The crushing plant was completed and put in
operation about the first of October, 1886. On October '7,
defendant paid plaintiff $2500; on October 27, $2500; and
about the 9th of November, $2500 in addition; making $7500
paid after the completion of the plant and the commencement
of its operation, and leaving a balance under the contract of
$5250, for which, suit was brought. Another suit was also
commenced for extras and the expenses of the superintendent.
The two were consolidated by order of the court and proceeded to trial as one. Verdict and judgment were in favor
of the plaintiff for $9574.53; to reverse which judgment the
defendant, plaintiff in error, sued out this writ of error.
The assignments of error, so far as noticed by the court in
its opinion, were:
First. In allowing the witness, Charles S. Brown, (the
agent of Blake,) to testify on behalf of the plaintiff from certain memorandum books produced by the said plaintiff ;
Second. In refusing to permit defendant to offer testimony
in rebuttal based upon the same books which it had ruled
were admissible against it as set forth in the preceding assignment of error;
Third. In refusing to allow the witness Inman, the general
manager of defendant and sworn on its behalf, to answer the
question, "What in your judgment is the daily capacity of
that mill?" the only objection being that the witness had not
been shown competent to answer;
Fourth. In refusing to allow defendant to prove a general
usage or custom in the business of mining iron ore whereby a
day's work consists of two shifts of ten -hours each;
Fifth, etc. In refusing requests for charges.

CHATEAUGAY IRON CO. v. BLAKE.
Argument for -Plaintiff in Error.

Hr. Edmund TVetmore and XMP. PFank . Smith for plaintiff in error.
I. The memorandum books, from which Brown was allowed
to testify were not competent evidence against the company.
They were not books or records of the company, and Brown
was Blake's representative at the mine. He caused these books
to be kept, and the greater part of the entries are in his hand,writing.
In February, 1887, after the keeping of the books was ended,
a copy was sent by Brown to Mr. Inman, the general manager of the Iron Company. These circumstances .plainly
characterize .the books as those of Mr. Blake and not of the
defendant. As such they could only be used in his favor after
the correctness of the entries had been established by some
-witness having knowledge of the facts recorded. Th7e Mayor
v. Second, Avenue Railroad, 102 N. Y. 572, 579; Chaffee v.
United States, 18 Wall. 516.,
The books were not competent as adiissions or declarations
made by agents of the Iron Company. Admissions or declarations made by an agent as evidence against the principal stand
upon an entirely different foundation from the admissions of
the party himself. The unsworn statement of the agent to be
received against the principal must not only relate to an act
which the ageilt is authorized to do, but must alsobe made while
the act itself is still pending. In other words, the statement
of the agent is received only when it constitutes a part of the
re8 gestw. Greenl. Ev., see. 113. This rule is strictly adhered
to by this court. Packet Co. v. Clough, 20 Wall. 528; Vicksburg & .MeridianRailroad Co. v. O'Brien, 119 U. S. 99.
The foremen of the mill were not the agents or servants of
the Iron Company, but of Blake as regards the books in quest:
tion. The books were kept in the interest of Blake. The
object of keeping them was to enable him to have a record of
the work done by the mill. Whatever was done by any
agent or servant of the defendant with reference to them was
done at the request of Blake's agent and for his convenience.
Manifestly it was impossible for Brown to be at the mill con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

stantly day and night. It was necessary that some one should
assist him if he'was to obtain a record which should cover the
entire time. He selects for that purpose the. men at work in
the mill. These men could do his work only with the consent
of their employer, the Iron Company, which consent was given'
and the, men instructed to do what Brown desired done in this
behalf. The men therefore in preserving the data on which
the books were made were doing his work, and not the work
of the defendant, which had, in the reports of its weigh-master
an independent record of the ore crushed at the mill.
Even assuming that the foremen of the mill were in all
respects the servants of the Iron Company, it was not within
the scope of their authority to make admissions which should
be evidence against their employer. First UnitarianSociety
v. -Faulkner,91 U. S. 415.
II. The refusal of the court to allow defendant to avail
itself of the memorandum books, after plaintiff had used them
against it was error. The testimony offered was strictly in
rebuttal. We of course concede the rule that a party must
exhaust his case in chief before he rests, and that testimony
in rebuttal, as matter of strict right, must be confined to matter
which denies or qualifies facts first proved by the other side.
Marshall v. Davies, 78 N. Y. 414.
The actual working of the mill upon isolated days, or during particular parts of October or November, being facts first
brought out*by the plaintiff, after defendant's case was closed,
it was strictly in rebuttal to show that the actual working
upon other days at substantially the same time, was very
different, and so qualify or limit the effect of the fact first
proved by plaintiff. The right of a party after he has closed
his case in chief, to offer evidence tending to deny, limit or
qualify a fact first brought into the case by his adversary, or
to contradict a statement made by one of his witnesses, is a
strict legal right, and one which it is error to deny. -French
v. Hall, 119 U. S.152; Tfnckell v. Winchell, 100 N. Y. 159;
Ankersmit v. Tuck, 114 N. Y. 51; Asay v. Hay, 89 1 . nn.
St. 77; Hayward v. Draper,3 Allen, 551; Eent v. Tow of
.incoln, 32 Vermont, 591.

CHATEAUGAY IRON CO. v. BLAKE.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The testimony should have been received on the ground that
it was an omitted part of an admission made by defendant,
the other part of which had been used against it. T46 books
themselves cannot be made competent evidence against defendant except on the theory that they were admissions made
by an agent.
The party seeking to use an admission made by his adversary cannot pick out that part which is in his favor and omit
what qualifies or limits it. He must take the whole or none.
Imurance Co. v. 3Tewton, 22 Wall. 32. Grattan v. 3fetropolitan Life Ins. Co., 92 N. Y. 274, 284.
III. It was error. to reject the testimony of Mr. Inman,
defendant's general manager, as to the daily capacity of the
mill.
, The general manager of defendant was asked what, in his
judgment, was the daily capacity of the mill? No objection
was made that the capacity of the mill was not a proper subject for expert evidence, and indeed the plaintiff had made out
his _prima facie case in that way. The only objection was
that the witness had not been shown competent to answer.
It had been made to appear that he was familiar with the business and knew what the mill had done, as well as what a similar mill, built by plaintiff for defendant, some years previous,
had done. It is submitted that the testimony showed the
witness to possess such qualifications and knowledge as to
make his testimony admissible, and that it was error to exclude
it. &tilwell& .Bierrce.APf'g .o. v. P)e pq, 130 U. S. 520.
IV. The court erred in refusing. to permit defendant to
show that the words "daily capacity" in the contract meant
a day of twenty working hours.
The custopns and usages of the business to which a written
contract relates may be proved in aid of its interpretation, and
the general usages of such a business are presumptively known
to persons niaking contracts with reference. to it. , Hostetter v.
Park,137-U. S. '30, 40; lcasters v. Pennsyivania.Railroad, 69 Penn. St. 374; Walls v. Bailey, 49 N. Y. 464.
It was compefint to prove by parol evidence that the word
"day" or "daily" used in the written contract had a peculiar
VOL. CxLIV--31"

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

or technical meaning in the business to which the contract
related.
The use of parol evidence to attach a special meaning to
common words when used with reference to a particular
trade or business is one of the settled exceptions to the rule
excluding parol evidence as to a contract reduced to writing.
And for the purpose of showing the peculiar meaning of
an everyday word, and thereby converting it into a word
of art, it is common and established practice to receive proof
of the .usage of the trade with reference to it. Hinton v.
Locke, 5 "Hill, .437; Newhall v. Appleton, 114 N. Y. 140;
Smith v. Clews, 114 N. Y. 190; Grant v. _Afaddox, 15 M. &
W. 737; Robinson v. United States, 13 Wall. 363;:.Bpadley
v. Steam Packet Co., 13 Pet. 89; -Myers v. Sarl, 3 El. & El.
30 ; Lowe v. LehMan, 15 Ohio St. 179; Cochranv. Retbeg,
3 Esp. 121.
V. The court erred in refusing certain requests to charge,
duly submitted.
Mr. 1. D..Xussey and lfr. L.
in error.
MR. JusTIn. BRaEwE,
opinion of the court.

.Chittenden for defendant

'after stating the case,.delivered the

The question in this case is whether or not the plaintiff fully
performed his contract of March 26, 1886. The contract stipulated for payment of one-half of the price before, and of the
other half when the machinery was. completed and successfully running. 1 ow, in addition to the full payment of the
one-half, substantially three-fifths of the other was paid in
three successive payments; the first within one and the last
not until six weeks.after the commencement of actual operations. There is significance in these latter payments. While
not conclusive on the company, they indicate that in its judgment, for a while at least, the plant fully satisfied all the conditions of the contract, and are properly to be considered in
determining the merits of the defence made to this action.

".HATEAUGAY

IRON

0.

v. BLAKE.

Opinion of the Court.

That defence is, that the plant was improperly and unskilfully constructed, of weak and defective parts, of material not
adapted to the work which it was designed to perform, and
that its actual working capacity did not exceed 350 tons a
day. The answer, besides its defensive allegations, contained
a counter-claim.
The first matter we notice is the alleged error in the testimony of Ohatles S. Brown, who, from certain account books
which he presented, was permitted to testify as to the actual
working of the plant between October 18 and November 7,
giving in that testimony the actual hours the plant was working, the number of tons crushed, the hours of delay, and the
causes therefor. This witness was sent by Mr. Blake to superintend the erection of the plant, to watch its workings when

completed, and to make any needed repairs, improvements or
changes. At his suggestion, after the plant commenced work,
the defendant's superintendent directed the foremen of the
mill to keep these books. The foremen, of whom there were
four, generally made -the entries on the books, though sometimes Brown did the writing at their dictation. The entries
were made daily; at least, that was the intention and the general practice. The amount of ore crushed, as disclosed by
these books, corresponded within a few tons with the amount
testified to by the officers of the defendant company. Brown,
himself, was present at the mill most of the time during the
day, and had a general knowledge of the accuracy of these entries, so far as respebts the work during that time. We think the
testimony was competent. The books were kept by the direction of the.defendant's superintendent, and the entries made
by its foremen. They were intended to be, and in fact generally were, 6ontemporaneous with the matters stated; and
their substantial accuracy is corr6borated by the personal
knowledge of the witness, and the near coincidence of the
general result with that vouched for by the defendant. They
may not have been account books of the defendant, in the
technical sense of the term, such as are generally admissible
against a party, but they were memoranda made under the
direction of the defendant for the purpose of preserving a

OCTOBER TERVr, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

record of certain facts, and made under such circumstances as
to -be worthy of a measure of credence as against it.
A second matter is this: The general manager of the defendant was asked what, in his judgment, was the daily capacity of the mill. This question was objected to on the ground
that the witness was not shown to be competent to testify as
an expert, which objection was sustained. How much knowledge a witness must possess before a party is entitled to his
opinion as an expert is a matter which, in, the nature of
things, must be left largely to the discretion of the trial court,
and its ruling thereon will not be disturbed unless clearly
erroneous. Stillwell & Bierce .Mfg. Co. v. Phelps, 130 U. S.
520 ; Mfontana Railway Company v. Warren, 137 U. S. 348 ;
Inland & Seaboard Coasting Co. v. Tolson, 139 U. S. 51.
This witness testified that he had been general manager of the
defendant company for six years; and that he was at the mill
as" often as twice a month, and usually went there once a
week. He does not appear to have been a practical machinist, or to have had any special knowledge of mining or crush:ing machinery. He was not superintendent of the workings
of the mine or of the machinery, and does not claim to have
been there regularly, or, indeed, oftener than once a week,
and, as general manager, was apparently more employed in
the financial and outside business affairs of the company than
in the details of the mining or the practical workings of the
machinery. We think the ruling of the trial court in excluding his opinion was right; at any rate, it cannot be adjudged
clearly erroneous.
Another matter is also complained of, and to a clear understanding of this question the course of- the trial must be
stated. The plaintiff opened by proving the construction of
the mill, and, in a general way, that it had the capacity of 600
tons daily, and also the payments by the defendant. He then
rested, and the defendant introduced testimony to show that
the mill was not of the stipulated capacity, and explaining the
circumstances of the subsequent payments. ' This included
evidence of the- actual workings of the mill from the 1st of
October, 1886, to the 1st of January,. 1888, the difficulties

OHATEAUGAY' IRON. 00. v. -BLAKE.

485

Opinion bf the Court.

that were encountered in its workings, the stoppages, what
was done on such occasions, and the efforts to remedy supposed defects, as also the opinions of competent witnesses as
to its capacity.. In other words, it went fully into the matter
of, the actual wdrkings of the mill, and its alleged incapacity
to do the stipulat-ld amount of crushing. In rebuttal, plaintiff
called the witness Brown, who gave the testimony heretofore
referred to from the memorandum books. It appeared from
his testimony that the books had been kept from October 18
till he left, in Mfarch following. He had made out from them
a statement of the facts respecting the workings of the mill
from October 18 tq the 'th of November, which he had fbrwarded to the plaintiff, and the details of that statement, as
verified by the books, was the sum and substance of his testimony. After he had finished, and the plaintiff had rested in
his rebuttal, the defendant called a witness named Hall, who
testified that he had examined the books, and he was then
asked what the average run per hour was for the months of
November, December and January, separately, as shown by
those books. This testimony was objected to and ruled out,
and of this defendant now complains. We think the ruling
of the court was right. If the defendant had a right after
the plaintiff had closed his case in rebuttal to introduce 'any
testimony at all, such right was limited to the new matters
brought out in the rebuttal; and while the fact of the existence of these books, and that they were kept for several
months was 'then disclosed for the first time, the only matters
therefrom presented to the consideration of the jury.were
those transpiring between October 18 andlNovember T. As
to those matters, the witness Hall was given full liberty of
testifying, and that certainly was as far as the defendant's
rights extended. These books were its own books; at. least,
made by its own employ~s under the direction of its superiitendent. It did not' offer them when it was making its defence, and the fact that certain portions of them are brought to
the attention of the jury on plaintiff's rebuttal 'did not entitle
it thereafter, and after the plaintiff had finally closed his testimony, to present the whole matter of these books in evidence.

OCTOBER TERf, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Still another matter is this: Defendant called as a witness
Smith M. Weed, who testified that he was a lawyer, but not
in actual practice, and had not been for eight or ten years;
that he was one of the defendant's directors; that he was
interested in mining iron ore; and.that that had been his
principal business and taken most of his time for the past
twenty years. He was then asked this question: "What is
understood by a day in the iron mining business?" the defendant's counsel saying that he offered to prove the independent fact that a day means two shifts of ten hours each in iron
mining. This testimony was offered -forthe purpose of interpreting the stipulation in the contract guaranteeing a capacity
of 600 tons daily. In other words, the defendant sought to
prove by this that the contract was for a mill capable of
crushing 600 tons in twenty 'hours, instead of twenty-four
hours. This testimony was objected to, and the ruling of the
court was stated in these words: "I do not think that it is
admissible unless you propose to show that that local custom
was known to both contracting parties." Evidently the court
understood that a local and not a general custom was sought
to be proved. It is true the question is general in it terms;
but for some reason, not altogether apparent-perhaps from
the course of the testimony of this witness -the court understood the question to be directed to a merely local usage, to
wit, that obtaining in the mine of which the witness had been
speaking. If it was such local usage, the court was right in
holding that it could not affect the meaning of the terms used
in the contract unless known to both. parties. Of a custom
prevailing generally there may be a presumption of knowledge; and the testimony might have been competent without
anything directly bringing home knowledge of it to the plaintiff. If the court misunderstood the scope of the question,
counsel should have corrected the misunderstanding at the
time; but, simply noting an exception. they passed on to a
further and different examination. They were notified that
the court was ruling on an offer to prove a local custom. If
that was not what chey-sought to prove, they should then
have stated tl'- fact. Saying nothing, it must be held that

CHATEAUGAY IRO0N CO. v. BLAKE.
Opinion of the Court.

the court properly interpreted the scope of the offer, and it
will not do now to say that the language of the question is
broad, and comprehensive, and that the court ruled. out evideuce of a general custom and understanding in the mining
business as to the meaning of a common word. When the
general manager of the company was thereafter on the stand
a substantially similar question was put to him by counsel,
and an objection was sustained without any comments by
the court. Of course, if that ruling stood by itself its correctness might have to be determined by all hnplied, in the questioh; but in view Qf that which had previously passed we
think it fair to hold that the court was simply continuing the
ruling which it previously made, and not that it was passing
upon a new and independent question.
We have been not a little embarrassed by this matter, and
the question is not free from difficulty; but we think the interpretation we. have given is the correct one; at all events,
if not the only, it is a fair interpretation of the proceedings,
and error is not to be presumed. The rulings of the trial
judge axe to be taken as stated by him, and not to be carried
beyond his own statement unless clearly demanded by the
circumstances of the case. It is worthy of note in this connection that, according to the testimony, defendant's mill
during certain months worked twenty-two hours a day. And,
further, that in a letter written by the general manager of
the company to plaintiff, in 1881., preliminary to the contract
under which the first crusher was furnished by plaintiff, the
writer says: "What we want is appliances that will crush
(without roasting) 200 tons of crude chunk ore in -24 hours,
and stand the racket month in and month out without breakdowns and stoppages. . . . Now, if we can do the work
we speak of (200 tons daily) and dispense with rolls it is a.
great desideratum." Evidently "daily" at that time was
used in the ordinary significance of the ter.m, and itwould
require very satisfactory te. timony to. show that in this later
contract it was used in a different sense. We think it must
be held that the court did not err in its rulings in this respect.
. The final matter is concerning the instructions: To.the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

general .charge no exceptions were taken. Eighteen special
instructions were asked, and in respect to them the bill of
exceptions states: "The court did not charge either of said
requests except as he had charged. For the refusal of the
court to charge in the specific language of said hereinbeforerecited requests, the defendant's counsel then and there duly
excepted." In this way only is any exception taken to the
matter of the instructions. But this wholesale exception is
not sufficient. Connecticut iMJutual Life Ins. Go. v. 1Tnion
T'ust Co., 112 U. S. 250; Burton v. West Jer.sey Fery

Co.,

1i4 U. S. 4174:
These are the only matters presented for our consideration.
The judgment will be
ned.,

_______Affl

BELFORD v. SORIBNER.
APPEAL FROX THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 226.

Submitted March 24, 1892. -Decided

April 11, 1892.

In an equity suit for the infringement of a copyright, where the defendant
appeals from the final decree, if exceptions were taken to the report of
a master in favor of the plaintiff, it is the duty of the appellant to bring
the exceptions into this court, as part of the record; and, if he took no
exceptions, the report stands without'eiception.
Where the authoress of a book was a married woman, the copyright of
which was taken by her assignee as proprietor, it was held, that, inasmuch as she settled, from time to time,' with the proprietor, for her
royalties, the court would presume that her legal title as author was
duly vested in such proprietor, and that long acquiescence, by all parties, in such claim of proprietorship, was enough to answer the suggestion of the husband's possible marital interest in the wife's earnings.
If the husbahd was entitled to any part of the wife's earnings, that was a
matter to be settled between the husband and the proprietor, and ceuld
not be interposed as a defence to a trespass on the rights of'the proprietor of the copyright.
The proof showed that the title to the book was vested in th6 plaintiff, and
that the copyright was secured by him in accordance with lav. .
Under ยง 4956 of the Revised Statutes, it is sufficient if the two printed

