OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

The case of Faserv. Davie is reported in 9 Rich. Law, 568,
note, and that of Beckham v. DeSaus&ure, in 9 Rich. Law,
531.
The decree of March 19, 1851, in the suit of Fraser v. Davie,
was prior to the judgment of September 29, 1856, in the suit
of Beckham and DeSaussure, as trustees against DeSaussure,
executor of Frederick William Davie, and as the plaintiffs in
.the present suit, the heirs at law of Dr. William Richardson
Davie, were not parties to the suit of Beckham against DeSaussure, thejudgment in that suit was of no force or effect
in favor of the plaintiff in error, as against the decree in the
suit of .'aser v. Davie.
The plaintiff in error, therefore, has no case, and the judgment is

Aflrmed.
MR. Jusiox.
GRAY was not present at the argument and
took no part in the decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. BUDD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 1391. Argued February 1, 1892.-Decided March 28, 1892.

When, in a court of equity, it is proposed to set aside, annul or correct a
written instrument for fraud or mistake in the execution of the instrument itself, the testimony on which this is done must be clear, unequivocal andconvincing, and not a bare preponderance of evidence; and this
rule, well established in private litigations, has additional force when
the object of the suit is to annul a patent issued by the United .States.
The illaxwell Land Grant Case, 121 U. S. 325, is affirmed, and is quoted from
and applied.
When the defendant in a suit in equity appears and answers under oath,
denying specifically the frauds .charged, no presumptions arise against
him if he fails to offer himself as a witness as to the alleged frauds,
inasmuch as the plaintiff can call him and cross-examine him.

UNITED STATES v. BUD.
Statement of the Case.
valuable chiefly for timber, but unfit for cultivation,"
"Public lands- ...
within the meaning of the timber and stone act of June 3, 1878, 20 Stat.
89, c. 151, include lands covered with timber but which may be made fit
for cultivation by removing the timber and working the lands.
B. entered a quarter section of timber land in Washington under the act of
June 3, 1878, 20 Stat. 89, c. 151, and after receiving a patent for it transferred it to M. M. purchased quite a number of lots of timber lands in
that vicinity, the title to 21 of which was obtained from the government
within q year by: various parties, but with the same two witnesses in each
case, the deeds to M. reciting only a nominal consideration. These purchases were made shortly, after, or in some cases immediately before
the payment to the government. B. and Al. were both residents in Portland, Oregon. One of the two witnesses to the application was examining the lands in that vicinity and reporting to M. Held,
(1) That all that the act of June 3, 1878, denounces is a prior agreement
by which the patentee-acts for another in the purchase;
(2) That M. might rightfully go or send into that vicinity, and make known.
generally, or to individuals, a willingness to buy timber land at a
price in excess of that which it would cost to obtain it from the
government; and that a person knowing of that offer might rightfully go to the land office and purchase a timber lot from the government, and transfer it to M. for the stated excess, without
violating the act of June 3, 1878.

Tm court stated the case as follows.
On July 23, 1882, the defendant, David E. Budd, applied

at the United States land office at Vancouver, Washington
Territory, for the purchase as timber land of the southeast

quarter of section 12, township 9, range 1 west, Willamette
meridian. On November 10, 1882, he paid the purchase price,
$2.50 per acre, and received the receiver's certificate, and on
the 5th day of May, 1883, a patent was duly issued to him.
On December 4, 1882, he conveyed the land to the other
defendant, James B. Montgomery. His entry and purchase
were made under the "timber and stone" act of June 3, 188,
20 Stat..89, c. 151. Section I of this act provides:
"That surveyed public lands . . . valuable chiefly for
timber, but unfit for cultivation, and which have not been
offered at public sale according to law may be sold .
in quantities not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres to
.
at the minimum price of two dollars and
any one .

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

fifty cents per acre; and lands valuable chiefly for stone may
be sold on the same terms as timber lands."
Section 2, so far as it is applicable to the case at bar, is as
follows:
"Sec. 2. That any person desiring to avail himself of the
provisions of this act, shall file with the register of the proper
district a written statement in duplicate, one of which is to be
transmitted to the General Land Office, designating by legal
sub/divisions the particular tract of land he desires to purchase,
setting forth that the same is unfit for cultivation and valuathat deponent has
ble chiefly for its timber or stone
made no other application under this act; that he does not
apply to purchase the same on speculation, but in good faith
to appropriate it to his own exclusive ,use and benefit; and
that he has not, directly or indirectly, made any agreement or
contract, in any way or manner, with any person or persons
whatsoever, by which the title which he might acquire from
the government of the United States should enure, in whole
or in part, to the benefit of any person except himself; which
statement must be verified by the oath of the applicant before
the register or the receiver of the land office within the district where the land is situated; and if any person taking
such oath shall swear falsely in the premises, he shall be subject to all the pains and penalties of perjury and shall forfeit
the money which he may have paid for said lands and all
right and title to the same; and any grant or conveyance
which he may have made, except in the hands of bona f#de
purchasers, shall be null and void."
The third section of said act, so far as here applicable, is as
follows:
"Sec. 3. That upon the filing of said statement .
the register of the land office shall post a notice of such application, embracing a description of the land by legal subdivisions, in his office, for a period of sixty days, and shall furnish
the applicant a copy of the same for publication, at the expense of such applicant, in a newspaper published nearest the
location of the premises for a like period of time; and after
the expiration of said sixty days, if no adverse claim shall
.

UNITED STATES v. BUDD.
Argument for Appellant.

have been filed, the person desiring to purchase shall furnish
to the register of the land office satisfactory evidence, first,
that said notice of the application prepared by the register as
aforesaid was duly published in a newspaper as herein required; secondly, that the land is of the character contemplated in this act, . ., . and upon payment to the proper
officer of the purchase money of said land, together with the
fees of the register and the receiver, as provided for in case
of mining claims in the'twelfth section of the act approved
May tenth, eighteen hundred and seventy-two, the applicant
may be permitted to enter said tract, and, on the transmission
to the General Land Office of the papers and testimony in the
case, a patent shall issue thereon."
On March 15, 1886, the government filed this bill in the.
District Court of the Second Judicial District of Washington
Territory, making Budd the patentee and Montgomery his
grantee parties defendant, the purpose of which was to set
aside the patent and the title by it conveyed, on the ground
that the land was not timber land within the meaning of the
act, and that the title to it was obtained wrongfully and
fraudulently, and in defiance of the restrictions of the statute.
The defendants appeared and answered under oath denying
the charges, proofs were taken, and on final hearing a decree
was entered in their favor dismissing the bill, 43 Fed. Rep.
630, from which decree the TUnite.d States appealed to this
court.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Parkerfor appellant.
The two principal questions arising in the case, are:
First. Is there such a combination or conspiracy shown to
have existed to obtain this, or this and other timber lands fop
the defendant, Montgomery, as authorizes the annulment of
the patent issued to defendant Budd?
Second. Is land of the character and description of this
quarter section subject to entry and purchase under the
"timber and stone act" of 1878 ?
I. The evidence shows that the lands in controversy, with

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.'
Argument for Appellant.

other lands were entered under the act of 1878, as part of a
project then existing to transfer the title from the United
States to Montgomery.
James B. Montgomery and Edward W. Bingham of Multnomah County, Oregon, made, respectively, August 21, 1882, timber entries under the act of 1878 upon portions of said township
No. 9, the witnesses in each case being George F. White and
George W. Taylor. The acknowledgment of all the deeds
mentioned in the schedule as running to defendant Montgomery took place in Multnomah County, Oregon, and in all cases
but two the acknowledgments were before E. W. Bingham,
or Ed. W. Bingham, as the notarial officer. All of the lands
mentioned in the schedule, except the lot deeded to Montgomery by William D. O'Regan, are portions of township
No. 9, and said Regan lot is a portion of township No. 10.
The following is a schedule of lands obtained under the act
of 1878, in the names of divers individuals specified, and conveyed by deed to defendant Montgomery as shown by the
record. All these individuals except Harmans, Mangs and
Taylor are stated to be residents of Multnomah County,
Oregon.

Name,

David E. Budd

Date of
statement
under act.

1882.
Aug. 23

Names of witnesses,

George F. White and
Robert Rockwell

Date of
payment
to U. S.

Date of
deot
goney
gomery.

1882.
Nov. 10

1882.
Dec. 4

Dec. 13

1883.
Feb. 27
1882.
ov. 17
Dec. 11
Dec. 15

Dec. 14
1883.
Mar. 17

Dec. 13
1883.
May 1

John W. Steffen
Alvin B. Hastings
Charles C. CarneU
Charles H. Harmans
J oh n M an g s
George W. Taylor
Allen A. Unkless
James K. Misner
George M. Misner

"

.
Sept, 29
C
C
1883.
Jan. 10

.....

U NITED STATES v. BUDD.
Argument for Appellant.

Name.

Hamilton Knott
Zeba M. LaRue
James L. Jewett
William A. Freeman
Michael H. McManus
Mark Woods
Alexander Lothian
Robert Dooling
Joseph Hughs
William D. O'Regan
Joseph J. Meagher
Martin Conroy

Date of
satemt
statement
under act.

Mar. 24
I"
I
Mar. 22
cc
"1
Mar. 27
I
Mar. 22
Mar. 28
Apr. 16

o witnesses.
Name of wMont-

Date of
payment

Date of
deed to

to U. S.

gomery.

June 2

June
June
June
June
June
June

",
June 15
June 16
It

27
14
27
2.2
26
23

'"

"
Nicholas Klein and
Alexander Miller.

c
i

11
It

June 20
"

June 27
"

July 2

June 26.

The land in question is west of the Cascade Mountains, and
is about a mile and a half from Silver Lake, or Toutle Lake,
as the same is called on government maps. •
Budd and Montgomery were both residents of Portland,
Oregon.
Budd carried on a stock stable there.
In September, 1885, Budd said to the United States special
agent of the General Land Office (witness Mundy) that he had
taken up the land for his own benefit; that he had not sold
it to anybody, but still held it; that he was not sure he had
ever seen this tract of land, but he had oiice gone to the neighborhood for that purpose; said that the land was "in soak."
itness Mundy claims that defendant Montgomery ht.d
caused t6 be entered of the timber lands around Silver Lake
over 10,000 acres.
It will be noted that Budd paid for the land $2.50 per acre,
and that his deed to Montgomery shows its conveyance for a
nominal sum, while the affidavit of value upon this appeal
shows it to be worth $5000, or over $31 per acre. It is respectfully submitted that the obtaining of timber landsl thus
shown is in contravention of the spirit and the letter of the
act of June 3, 1818.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

It will be noted that Montgomery, Budd, White, Rockwell
and Bingham all fail to take the witness stand, and refrain
from making any denial or explanation of the charges and
inferences arising against them upon the trial.
Budd did not know that he had ever seen the land, while
Montgomery was active in contending for the titles which he
was securing.
While the proofs of conspiracy and combination involving
the two defendants is not so direct and full as a complainant
might desire to establish, it is yet believed that the judicial
judgment upon the facts shown may fairly be that the obtaining of the lands by Montgomery, as shown in the record,
including the Budd tract, was in contravention of the provisions of the "timber and stone act," and that the patent and
deed now assailed should be declared void.
II. The land is not of a description which can be disposed
of under this act, because not chiefly valuable for timber or
stone, and unfit for cultivation, but is valuable for agricultural
purposes, and the defendant Budd, in making his proof in the
land office, procured the giving of false testimony as to the
character of the land in this respect.
-M. Jefferson Chander for appellees.
MR. JusTIcR BREwER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

In the brief of counsel for the government it is stated that
"the two principal questions arising in the case are: First. Is
there such a combination or conspiracy shown to have existed
to obtain this, or this and other timber lands for the defendant
Montgomery, as authorizes the annulment of the patent issued
to defendant Budd? Second. Is land of the character and
description of this quarter section subject to entry and purchase
under the ' timber and stone act' of 1878 ?"
The first question is, perhaps, stated too broadly, for the
inquiry is necessarily limited to the land in controversy. If
its title was fairly acquired, it matters not what wrongs have

UNITED STATES v. BUDD.
Opinion of the Court.,

been done by either defendant in acquiring other lands; so
the question properly to be considered is, was this land wrongfully and fraudulently obtained fromn the government? We
have had many cases of this nature before us, and the rules
to guide in its determination have been fully settled. Eansas
City, Lawrence &e. Railroad v. Attorney General, 118 U. S.
682; .Maxwell Zand Grant Case, 121 U. S. 325, 381; Colorado
Coal Co. v. United States, 123 U. S. 307; United8
States v. -Des
foines HYavigation cfc. Co.,.142 U. S. 510.
In the second of these cases Mr. Tustice Miller thus clearly
states the rule:
"We take the general doctrine to be, that when in a court
of equity it is proposed to set aside, to annul or to correct a
written instrument for fraud or mistake in the execution of
the instrument itself, the testimony on which this is done
must be clear, unequivocal and convincing, and that it cannot
be done upon a bare preponderance of evidence which leaves
the issue in doubt. If the proposition, as thus laid down in
the cases cited, is sound in regard to the ordinary contracts
.Df private individuals, how much more should it be observed
where the attempt is to annul the grants, the patents and
other solemn evidences of title emanating from the government of the United States under its official seal. In this class
of cases, the respect due to a patent, the presumptions that all
the preceding steps required by the law had been observed
before its issue, the immense importance and necessity of the
stability of titles dependent upon these official instruments,
demand that the effort to set them aside, to annul them, or to
correct mistakes in them, should onlybe successful'when the
allegations on which this is attempted are clearly stated and
fully sustained by proof. It is not to be admitted that the
titles by which so much property in this country, and so
many rights are held, purporting to emanate from the
authoritative action of the officers of the government, and,
as in this case, under the seal and signature of the
President of the United States himself, shall be dependent
upon the hazard of successful resistance to the whims and
caprices of every person who chooses to attack them in a
VOL. CXLIV-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

court of justice; but it should be well understood that only
that class of evidence which commands respect, and that
amount of it which produces conviction, shall make such an
attempt successful."
This caso is even stronger in its aspects than some that have
been before us, for if the particular wrong .charged upon the
defenaants be established the money paid is, by the secondsection of the act, forfeited, and there is not even the possibility suggested in the case of United States v. Trinidad Coal
Co., 137 U. S. 160, of an equitable claim upon the government
for its subsequent repayment. The hardship of such a result,
so different from that which is always enforced in suits between individuals, makes it imperative that no decree should
pass against the defendants unless the wrong be clearly and'
fully established.
The particular charge is, that Budd, before his application,
had unlawfully and fraudulently made an agreement with his
co-defendant, Montgomery, by which the title he was to' acquire from the United States should enure to the benefit of
such co-defendant. Upon this question, the fact that stands
out prominently is, that there is no direct testimony that Budd
made any agrdement with Montgomery, or even that they
ever met, or either knew of the existence of the other, until
after Budd had fully paid for the land. No witness ever
knew or heard of any agreement. What, then, is the evidence
upon which the government relies? It appears that Montgomery purchased quite a number of tracts of timber lands in
that vicinity, some ten thousand acres, as claimed by one of
the witnesses; that the title to twenty-one of these tracts was
obtained from the government within a year, by various parties, but with the same two witnesses to the application in
each case; that the purchases by Montgomery were made
shortly after the payment to the government, and in two
instances a day or s6 before such payment; that these various
deeds recite only a nominal consideration of one dollar; that
Budd and Montgomery were residents of the same city, Portland, Oregon; that one of the two witniesses to these applications was examining the lands in that vicinity and reporting

UNITED STATES v. BUDD.
Opinion of the Court.

to Montgomery; and that the patentee, Thudd, years after his
conveyance to Montgomery, stated to a government agent
who was making inquiry into the transaction that he still held
the land and had not sold it, but that it was "in soak." But
surely this amounts to little or nothing. It simply shows that
Montgomery wanted to purchase a large body of timber lands,
and did purchase them. This was perfectly legitimate, and
implies or suggests no wrong. The act does not in any respect
limit the dominion which the. purchaser has over the land after
its purc,.ase from the government, or restrict in the slightest
his power of alienation. All that it denoulices is a prior agreement, the acting for another in the purchase. If when the
title passes from the government no one .save the purchaser
has any claim upon it, or any contract or agreement for it, the
act is satisfied. Montgomery might rightfully go or send into
that vicinity and make known-'generally, or to individuals, a
willingness to buy timber land at a price in excess of that
which it would cost to obtain it from the government; and
any person knowing of that offer might rightfully go to the
land office and make application and purchase a timber tract
from the government, and the facts above stated point as naturally to such a state of affairs as to a violation of the law by
definite agreement prior to any purchase from the government
- point to it even more naturally, for no man is presumed to
do wrong or td violate the law, and every man is presumed
to know the law. And in this respect the case does not rest
on presumptions, for the testimony shows that Montgomery
knew the statutory limitations concerning the acquisition of
such land,. and the penalties attached to any previous arrangement with the patentee for their purchase. Nor is this a case
in which one particular tract was the special object of desire,
and in whi6h therefore it might be presumed that many things
would be risked in order to obtain it; for it is clear from the
testimony that not the land but the timber was Montgomery's
object, and any tract bearing the quality and quantity of timber (and there were.many such tracts in that vicinity) satisfied
his purpose. This is evident, among other things, from the
testimony of one Tipperry, upon which some reliance is placed

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

by the government, which was that Montgomery offered him
one hundred dollars besides all his expenses if he would take
a timber claim in that vicinity (no particular tract being named)
and afterwards sell to him. The government relies also on the
testimony of Edward J. Sears, that Montgomery promised to
give him $125, and all costs and expenses, if he would enter a
tract of timber land and convey to him, and that thereafter
Montgomery advanced the money for the payment to the
government, and subsequently, on receipt of a deed, paid him
the $125. If it be conceded that this testimony as to another
transaction be competent in this case, and there be put upon
the testimony the worst possible construction against Montgomery, to the effect that he made a distinct and positive
agreement with Searls for the purchase of a tract which the
latter was to enter and obtain fromthe government, and so a
transaction within the exact denunciation of the statute. still
that testimony only casts suspicion on the transaction in question here, and suggests the possibility of wrong in it. Because
a party has done wrong at one time and in one transaction, it
does not necessarily follow that he has done like wrong at
other times and in other transactions. Suppose in each of the
twenty-one cases specified in the testimony the government
had filed a separate bill making the patentee and Montgomery
parties defendant, and charging in each, as here, a prior unlawful agreement, and in twenty of them the patentee and
Montgomery had each answered, denying under oath any
prior agreement, while in the twenty-first they had likewise
answered, admitting in full as charged the making of such
an unlawful agreement, would the admission in the one case
be adjudged, in the face of the denial under oath in the other
twenty, clear, full and convincing proof that in those cases
likewise there was a prior, unlawful agreement? And yet
such admission of both patentee and Montgomery would be
stronger and more satisfactory evidence *thanthe separate testimony of the patentee. And this is all the testimony which
in any manner points to wrong in this transaction. Surely this
does not come up to the rule so- well established, as to the
necessary proof in a case like this.

UNITED STATES v. BUDD.
Opinion of the Court.

But it is suggested that there is a presumption of, law that,
where it appears that a transaction is wholly within the
knowledge of one party to a suit, and he fails to disclose fully
the facts concerning such transaction, it was of the character
claimed by the adVerse party. ' But that proposition has no
application here. The charge is that Budd made a prior
agreement with Montgomery. When Budd made his application he filed an affidavit swearing that he had made no
agreement with .any one. This is one denial under oath of
the truth of this charge. In the bill as filed answers under
oath were called for, and Budd and Montgomery each filed
an answer under oath denying specifically the existence of.
any such prior agreement; and an answer under oath in an
equity case, when called foris to be taken as evidence. But.
it is said that neither one of the defendants appeared as a,
witness, nbr did the notary who took the acknowledgment o!f
Budd's deed to Montgomery, nor did White/or Rockwell,- the
'two witnesses to the application of Budd for purchase of the
land. As no wrong is charged against the three latter, if.
the government, the complaining party, failed to call them, it
is to be presumed that, upon inquiry, it found that they knew
nothing which would tend to substantiate its claim. With
regard to the two defendants, they having once sworn that
there was no agreement, there was nothing farther to disclose.
If the government doubted their statements under oath, it
could have called either one and cross-examined him to its
satisfaction. It is familiar law that where a witness discloses
in.his testimony that he is adverse in interest and feeling t3
the party calling him, the latter may change the character of
his examination from a direct to a cross-examination, and the
opposing party is always adverse .in interest. In Clarke v.
Saffery, Ryan & Moody, 126, in which the plaintiff's counsel
called the defendant as his own witness and sought to crossexamine him, Chief Justice Best said: "If a witness, by his
conduct in the box, shows himself decidedly adverse, it is
always in the discretion of the judge to allow a cross-exami-:
nation; but if a witness called, stands in a situation which of
necessity makes him adverse to the party calling him, as in

OCTOBER TERMf,- 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the case here, the counsel may, as matter of right, cross-examine him." See also People v. Mather, 4 Wend. 229; Bank of
Northern Liberties v. -Davis,6 W. & S. 285; Towns v. Aiford,
2 Alabama, 378. The government failed in this case to exercise such right of cross-examination, and surely cannot now
be permitted to make its failure a basis of impeaching their
sworn statements. Indeed, in view of the meagreness of this
iestimony, it is not to be wondered at that the counsel for the
government could conscientiously make no stronger claim
than this :
"While the proofs of conspiracy and combination involving
the two defendants are not so direct and full as a complainant
might desire to establish, it is yet believed that the judicial
judgment upon the facts shown may fairly be that the obtaining of the lands by Montgomery, as shown in the record,
including the Budd tract, was in contravention of the provisions of the 'timber and stone act,' and that the patent and
deed now assailed should be declared void."
With regard to the second question: The descrilption in the
act is of lands "valuable chiefly for timber, but unfit for cultivation." It is conceded that these lands were valuable
chiefly for timber. It is claimed, however, that they were fit
for cultivation, and therefore not within the description of
lands purchasable under this act. But obviously at the time
of the purchase the land was unfit for cultivation. It was
covered.with a dense growth of timber; fir trees, many of
them two hundred feet in height and five feet in diameter.
In respect to the testimony the trial court makes this commeit:
"Thirteen witnesses were called who testified that the soil
is stony and inferior for farming purposes; that it contains
excellent fir and cedar timber, besides hemlock and an undergrowth of various shrubs and brush; that the trees are. large,
tall and straight, and sound, and will yield from 50,000 to
150,000 feet of the best quality of lumber per acre, and this
'testimony and estimate are not controverted. The field-notes
made by the government survey or at the time of surveying
the land, more than twenty-five years ago, describe the land

UNITED STATES v. BUDD.
Opinion of the Court.

as being stony and second-rate, and the timber as fir, cedar
and hemlock, and the most convincing testimony of all is a
series of twelve' photographs taken near the centres of each
legal subdivision of the tract. These pictures exhibit, with
unerring certainty and faithfulness, magnificent trees standing
so near together as to force each other to grow straight and
tall. They satisfy the court that this tract is valuable and
desirable for the timber upon it, and also that no man would
be willing o subjugate this piece of forest for the mere sake
of cultivating it."
If it b shggested that this dense forest might be cleafed
off'and then .the land become suitable for cultivation, the
reply is, thaz the statute does not contemplate, what may be,
but what is. Lands are not excluded by the scope of the act
because in- the future, by large expenditures of money and
labor, they may be rendered suitable for cultivation. It is
enough that at the time of the purchase they are not, in their
then condition, fit therefor. The statute does not refer to the
probabilities of the future, but to the facts of the present.
Many rocky hill-slopes or stony fields in New England have
been, by patient years of gathering up and removing the
stones, made fair farmingdland; but surely no one before the
comimencement of these labors would have called them fit for.
cultivation. We- do not mean that the mere existence of timber on land brings it within the scope of the act. The significant word'in the statute is "chiefly ," Trebs growing on a
tract may be so fear in number or so small in size as to be
easily cleared off, or not seriously to affect its present and
general fitness for cultivation. So, on the other hand, vhere
a tract, is mainly covered with a dense forest, there may be'
small 'penings scattered through it susceptible of cultivation.
The chief value of the land must be its timber, and that timber mist be so extensive and so dense as to. render the tract
as a whole, in its present state, substantially unfit for culti.vatiori.
But after all, the question is not so much one of law for the
courts after the issue of the patent, as of fact, in the first instance, for the determination of the land officers. The courts

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, JJ.

do not revise their determination upon a mere question of
fact. In the absence of fraud or some other element to invoke
the jurisdiction and powers of a court of equity, the determination of the land officers as to the fact whether the given
tract is or is not fit for cultivation, is conclusive. There is, in
such cases, no general appeal from the land officers to the
courts, and especially after the title has passed, and the money
been paid. We do not, however, need to rest upon this proposition in this case, for the testimony clearly shows that the
tract as a whole was not fit for cultivation, but was valuable
chiefly for its timber.
We see no error in the rulings of the trial court, and its
decree will be
Affirmed.

MR. JusucE BRowN, with whom concurred MR. JusricE
HARrAN, dissenting.
Mr. Justice Harlan and myself agree with the majority of
the court in its construction of the timber and stone act of
June, 1878, that it provides for the sale of lands valuable
chiefly for timber, but unfit, at the time of such sale, for cultivation. From so much of the opinion, however, as holds that
the purchase of these lands by the defendant Montgomery
was bona fide, we are constrained to dissent.
The object of the act in question was to authorize the
sale of timbered lands in lots not exceeding 160 acres to
any one person, at -a minimum price of $2.50 per acre; and,
in furtherance of this object, it was provided in section 2,
that the applicant must make oath that he has made no other
application under the act; that he does not apply to purchase the same on speculation, but in good faith to appropriate it to his own exclusive use and benefit; and that he
has not, directly or indirectly, made any agreement or contract in any way or manner with any person or persons'whatsoever, by which the title he might acquire from the gove-nment of the United States should enure, in whole or in part,,
to the benefit of any person except himself.

UNITED STATES v. BUDD.
Dissenting Opinion: Biown, Harlan, JJ.

The facts in regard to this particular entry are meagre. It
appears that Budd and Montgomery were both residents of
Portland, Oregon,* a nd that Budd carried on a stock stable
there; that he entered the land on August 23, 1882, paid for
it on November 10,'and conveyed it to defendant Montgomery on Dbcember 4, for a nominal consideration of $1. Nearly
three years thereafter he stated to a spe6ial agent of the land
office that he had taken up the land for his own benefit; that
he had not sold it to anybody, but .still held it, (a; statement
manifestly untrue;) that he was not sure that he had ever
seen the tract, but had once gone into the neighborhood for
that purpose; and that the land was in "soak,' " whatever
that may mean. He refused to make an affidavit, but said he
would make a statement. The tract for wlich he paid $2.50
per acre is shown to be worth $5000, or-over $31 per acre.
Did the case rest upon this statement alone, it must be conceded that the government had not proven enough to authorize an annulment of the patent subsequently issued. But it is
a familiar rule that where a particular act is equivocal in its
nature, and may have been done with fraudulent intent, proof
of other acts of a similar nature done contemporaneously or
about the same time -are admissible to show such intent.
Cases of fraud are recognized exceptions to the general rule
that the commission of one wrongful act has no legal tendency to prove the commission of another. Such other acts
always have a bearing upon the questions of fraudulent intent
or guilty knowledge where they are in issue. Thus, a single
act of passing counterfeit money is very little, if any, evi•dence that the party knew it was cotinterfeit, since the innocent passing of such money is an every-day occurrence; but
if it be shown that the person accused made other attempts
to pass the money at or about the same time, or that he had
other counterfeit money in his possession, the proof of scienter
is complete. The same rule is frequently invoked in cases of
alleged frauds upon the government. It was applied by this
court in Cate v. Bullard,23 How. 172, to a case where the
defendants were charged with having fraudulently sold 'the
goods of the plaintiff; in Linooln v. Claln , 7 Wall. 132, to an

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, JJ.

action for fraudulently obtaining property; and in Butler v.
Watkins, 13 Wall. 456, to an action for deceit in endeavoring
to prevent a patentee from using his invention. The authorities are fully reviewed in LVew York .Mut. Life Ins. Co. v.
Armstrong, 117 U. S. 591, a case where a policy of life insurance was alleged to have been obtained for the purpose of
cheating and defrauding the insurance company, and evidence
was admitted that policies in other companies had been
obtained with like intent.
In this connection the evidence shows that, in addition to
Budd, there were twenty-one others, who within the next few
months entered and paid for similar tracts of land, and within
a few days thereafter conveyed them to the defendant Montgomery for the nominal consideration of $1. In two instances
the land was deeded before the payment to the goverpment.
Thus of four entries and payments November 10, deeds were
in all, except one instance, executed prior to December 15;
of three entries in December, deeds were made within two
days in two cases, and the day before the payment in the
other; of three payments on March 17, for entries previously
made, deeds were executed upon May 1; of eleven payments
'in June deeds were all made before the end of the month;
and of one payment made July 2, a deed was executed June
26. In all these cases except one the entries were witnessed
by George F. White and George W. Taylor, White being an
agent of Montgomery for examining timber lands. All of
the lands covered by these twenty-two entries lie in the
same township, except one, which lies in an adjoining township. In all the cases but two the acknowledgments were
made before the same notarial offiber. The deeds thus executed to Montgomery covered over 3000 acres, and, if valued
on the basis of the valuation of the-Budd land, would amount
to about $100,000. Two witnesses swore that, in 1882, Montgomery requested them to take a timber claim, and offered to
pay them $106 each for their rights and expenses.
Thesefacts, with certain others stated in the opinion of the
court, constituted the case of the government. While, if
these facts stood-alone, without 'opportunity for further ex-

UNITED STATES.

.

BUDD.

Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, JJ.

planation, it might be open to argument whether they estabJ
lished such a case of want of good faith as to call upon this
court to annul the patents, we axe clearly of the opinion that
they axe of such a nature as to call upon the defeidants to
produce the testimony within their reach to explain the suspicioas circumstances attending these entries. As the case
stands, the inference seems to us unavoidable, either that
Montgomery bargained for these lands beforehand, or that he
was most singularly fortunate in being able to purchase them
so soon after their entry. Neither Budd nor Montgomery,
nor their witnesses White and Rockwell, were put upon the
stand, though all, or at least, some of them, must have been
cognizant of the entire facts connected with these transactions.
"It is certainly a maxim," said Lord Mansfield, "that all
eyidence is to be weighed according to the proof which it was
in the power of one side to have produced, and in the power of
the other side to have contradicted." Blatch v. Archer, Oowp.
63, 65. It has always been held that the omission of a party
to testify as to facts in his knowledge in explanation of, or to
contradict, adverse testimony is a proper subject for consideration both at law and in equity. .lcDonough v. O'Neil,
113 Mass. 92. The rule was thus stated by Chief Justice
Shaw in the celebrated case, of Cor onwealtk v. Webster,
5 Cush. 295, 316: "Where probable ]proof is brought of a
state of facts tending to criminate the accused, the absence of
evidence tending to a contrary conclusion is to be considered
- though not alone entitled to much weight; because the
burden of proof lies on the accuser to make out the whole
'case by substantive evidence. But when pretty stringent
proof of circumstances is produced, tending to support the
charge, and it is apparent that the accused is so situated that
he could offer evidence of all the facts and circumstances as
they existed, and show, if such was the truth, that the suspicious circumstances can be accounted for consistently with
his innocence, and he fails to offer such proof, the natural
conclusion is, that the proof, if'produced,Anstead of rebutting,
would tend to sustain the charge."
. It. is said by Mr. Starkie in his work on Evidence, vol. 1,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan; JJ.

page 54: "The conduct of the party in omitting to produce
that evidence in elucidation of the subject matter in dispute,
which is within his power, and which rests peculiarly within
his own knowledge, frequently affords occasion for presumptions against him, since it raises strong suspicion that such
evidence if adduced would operate to his prejudice." The
same rule is applicable even in criminal proceedings.
3
Starkie, 1253; see also 2 Pothier on Obligations, 340.
It is said, however, in excuse, that, when Budd made his
application, he filed an affidavit that he had made no agreement with any one; and that Budd and Montgomery each
filed an answer under oath denying specifically any such prior
agreement. This, however, answers but poorly for the testimony which these witnesses could give upon the stand. Our
experience with human nature teaches us that meni who are
guilty of a transaction of this kind will not hesitate to put
upon file a formal denial of their bad faith, and we hazard
nothing in saying that ,the first impulse of an innocent man
under such circumstances would be to offer himself as a witness in his own behalf and vindicate his own conduct in the
transaction. It is true that the government was at liberty to
call upon these witnesses, but in so doing it would make them
its own, vouch for their veracity and integrity, be bound by
their §tatements, and be denied, except in the di~cretionof
the court,-the right of cross-examination, which is the one
thing indispensable to bring out the facts as they actually
existed. Even if the right of cross-examinition be conceded,
we do not understand that it changes in any way the obligation of the defendants to produce such explanatory testimony
as is within their control. While it is true that from the fact
that a person has been guilty of fraud in cne transaction, it is
not necessarily implied that he-has been guilty of it in another,
the probability of a fraudulent intent is very greatly increased
by the multiplication of transactions of a similar nature.
The evidence in this case tends to show that defendant
Montgomery had, by this And other devices, appropriated to
himself over ten thousand acres of land in and about this
neighborhood. It is unnecessary to say that, however this

BRENHAM v.' GERMA"T AMERICAN BANK.

173

Statement of the Case.

may have been done, it is a practical defeat of the intention
of Congress: It certainly demands,, and in this instance seems
to have received, a searching investigation. When we see
the most valuable portion of an immense domain, which has
been reserved by the beneficence of Congress for the benefit
of actual settlers, or of small proprietors, being gradually
absorbed by a few- speculators, we are forced to inquire
whether there is not a limit beyond which even a land patent
of the United States begins to lose something of its sanctity..
We think the decree of the court below dismissing the bill
should be reversed.

BRENIHAM v. GERMAN AMERICAN BANK.
ERROR TO THi

CIRCMT cour OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 120. Argued March 17, 1892.- Decided March 28, 1892.

Bonds were issued by the city of Brenham, in Texas, in July, 1879, payable
to bearer, to the amount of $15,000, under the assumed authority of an
act of Texas, passed in 1873, incorporating the city, and giving its council authority to borrow, for general purposes, not exceeding $15,000 on
the credit of the city; Held, that the city had .no authority to issue
negotiable bonds, and that, therefore, even a bona fide hblder of them
could not recover against the city on them or their coupons.
Power in a municipal corporation to borrow money not being nugatory
although unaccompanied by the power to issue negotiable bonds therefor,
it is easy for the legislature to confer upon-the municipality the power
to issue such bonds; and, under the well settled rule that any doubt as"
to the existence of such power ought to be determined against its existence, it ought not to be held to exist in the present case.
The cases on this subject reviewed; and Rogers v. Burlington, 3 Wall. 654,
and Mitchell v. Burlington, 4 Wall. 270, held'to be overruled.

Tis was an action against a municipal corporation to recover upon coupons cut from negotiable bonds issued by it.
Judgment below for plaintiff, to which this writ of error -was
sued out. The cause was first argued on the 14th of December, 1891. On the 26th of Tanuary, 1892, a reargument was

