OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

been exhibited by the English patents, rather than inventions
of anything essentially novel. They appear to involve such
immaterial changes as would be required to adapt a known
device to use in a combination with other elements already
existing, and such as would occur to any skilled mechanic.
Indeed, the object of these patents, and the same remark may
be made of all, or nearly all, involved in these suits, seems to
have been principally to forestall competition, rather than to
obtain the just rewards of an inventor. It is true the deferldants make use of devices similar in many particulars to those
employed by the plaintiff, but they, too, seem rather to have
adopted prior and known devices, and fitted them to the peculiar construction of their machine, rather than to have purloined them from the plaintiff.
These cases are not without their difficulties, owing somewhat to the complicated nature *of some of the devices, the
number of anticipating patents, the difficulty of determining
how far the later ones are merely colorable variations of the
prior ones, and how far they involve invention; but upon the
best consideration we have been able to give them we have
seen no reason to differ from the judgment of the court below
in its estimate of their value.
The decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore,
Afflrmed.

]cLANE v. KING.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 235. Argued and submitted March 24, 1892. -Decided

April 4, 1892.

In this suit the property of a corporation in a bridge constructed by it over
the San Antonio River is held to have been lawfully transferred by the
foreclosure of a mortgage upon it.

Tins suit was originally commenced in the District Court of
Karnes County, Texas, on September 12, 1882, and thereafter

McLAIWE v. KING.
Statement of the Case.

properly removed to the Circuit CQurt of the United States
for the Western District of Texas. The facts as disclosed -by
the bill were, that in 1876 there existed a corporation, known
as the Helena Bridge Company, and organized for the purposes of building an iron bridge over the San Antonio River
at the town of Helena. The defendants King & Son had a
contract with the bridge company for the full construction of
the bridge, payment therefor to be made partly by the transfer of $10,000 of full-paid stock and partly in notes of the corporation, secured by a mortgage on the bridge. The stock
was never issued, but the notes and mortgage were duly
executed and 'delivered. King & Son contracted with the
plaintiff Ruckman to do part of the work. By the terms of
this contract they were to have transferred to Ruckman, in
full payment of his work, the $10,000 of stock. This contract
was fully performed by Ruckman, and in the amount due
thereon McLane became jointly interested. In 1880, King
& Son brought suit on the notes and mortgage; which suit
resulted in a judgment for $10,919, and a decree of foreclosure.
Subsequently, on proper process, they purchased the property, and still hold it. The object of the suit was to have the
plaintiffs decreed to be jointly interested with the Kings in
the bridge, and for an accounting of tolls and the profits
arising therefrom, For the purpose of invalidating the legal
effect of the foreclosure proceedings, it was alleged that such
proceedings were instituted and prosecuted "with the fraudulent intent and purpose, then and there entertained by the
said Z. King and James A. King, and actuating them, in the
premises, to obtain possession of the said bridge-and its appurtenances, being the only property of value belonging to said
Helena Bridge Company and the only revenue-producing
property thereof, to render the stock of said Helena Bridge
Company worthless in the hands of the holders, and thereby
to render the performance of their contracts to deliver stock
to these complainants in the said bridge company unavailing
and ineffectual if literally executed; and complainants here
charge that it was the understanding and agreement of the
parties to said contracts between said Z. King & Son and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

these complainants for the delivery of said stock, as set forth
in complainants' original bill, that the stock should be good
and valuable stock, worth fully dolla for dollar in the public
market, and that by the institution and prosecution of their
said suit against said Helena Bridge Company, and by their
taking possession of the said bridge and appurtenances, the
said Z. King & Son have rendered the stock of said Helena
Bridge Company utterly valueless." It was also alleged that
the delivery of the stock, while in law a literal compliance
with the terms of the contract, would in equity be nugatory
and ineffectual, because the acts of the Kings, as before stated,
had rendered it valueless. A demurrer to this bill was sustained, and a decree of dismissal entered. From such decree
plaintiffs appealed to this court.
)lr.

X. F. Xomris for appellants submitted on his brief.

.M..A. G. Riddle (with whom was XrM.H. E. Davis on
the brief) for appellees.
Mr.

JusTICE BREwER

delivered the opinion of the court.

The foreclosure proceedings transferred the legal title to
the bridge to King & Son, and rendered the stock of the
brioge company valueless. A transfer of the latter, if now
possible, would be of no benefit to the plaintiffs, and is not
desired by them. That it was supposed to be of value when
the contract was made, and that it is now worthless, creates
no liability against the Kings, unless they have wrongfully
destroyed that supposed value. But it is not alleged that
King & Son did not give full value for the notes and mortgage, or that they were illegally issued by the bridge company, or that they were paid in whole or in part, or that suit
was brought before they.matured, or a recovery obtained for
a larger amount than was due. In. other words, it is not
shown that King & Son did other than exercise a legal right
of collecting a just debt by foreclosure of the mortgage given
to secure it. By so doing, they exposed themselves to no lia-

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

bility to others for the indirect result of such legal act. The
allegation that it was done with a fraudulent intent and purpose to obtain possession of the bridge, amounts to nothing.
If the act was legal, it is not made illegal by a mere epithet.
So far as respects the charge; that it was the understanding
and agreement that the stock should be good and valuable
stock, worth fully dollar for dollar in the public market, it is
enough to say that the contract, which is in writing and attached to the bill, contains .no such provision. There is no
stipulation whatever, expressed or suggested in that contract,
other than for the transfer of this specified stock. Ruckman
took the chances of its value.
The decision of the Circuit Court was right, and the
decree is
Aflrmed.

LOGAN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 1235. Argued January 26, 27, 1892.- Decided April 4, 1892.,

A citizen of the United States, in the custody of a United States marshal
under a lawful commitment to aniswer for an offence against the United
Siates, has the right to be protected by the United States against lawless
violence; this right is a right secured to him by the Constitution and
laws of the United States; and a conspiracy to injure or oppress him inits free exercise or enjoyment is punishable under section 5508 of the
Revised Statutes.
The consolidation, under section 1024 of the Revised Statutes, of several
indictments against different persons for one conspiracy, if not excepted
to at the time, cannot be objected to after verdict.
An act of Congress, requiring courts to be-held at three places in a judicial
district, and prosecutions for offences committed in certain counties to
be tried, and writs and recognizances to be returned, at each place, does
not affect the power of the grand jury, sitting at either place, to present
indictments for offences committed anywhere within the district.
A jury in a capital case, who, after considering their verdict for forty hours,
have announced in open court that they are unable to agree, may be
discharged by the court of its own motion and at its discretion, and the
defendant be put on trial by another jury.

