CASES ADJUDGED

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.

UNITED STATES v. BALLIN.
APPEAL FROm THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No.1061.

Argued December 2,1891.-

Decided February29, 1892.

The provision in Rule XV of the House of Representatives of the fiftyfirst Congress, that "on the demand of any member, or at the suggestion
of the Speaker, the names of members sufficient to make a' quorumn in
the hall of the house who do not vote shall be noted by the -clerk and
recorded in the journal, and reported to the Speaker with the names of
the members voting, and be counted and.announced in determining the
presence of a quorum to do business," is a constitutional mode of ascertaining the presence of a quorum, empowered to act as the House.
Under the provision in the act of May 9, 1890, 26 Stat. 105, c. 200, the duties
on worsted cloths were, by the terms of the act, and irrespective of any
action by the Secretary of the Treasury, to be such as were placed on
woollen cloths by the act of March 3, 188.3. 22 Stat c. 121,fpp. 488, 508.

IN July, 1890, the appellees imported into New York certain
goods, 'which they claimed to be dutiable as manufactures, of
worsted at the rate described in schedule K, of the act of

:March 3, 1883.

22 Stat. 488, 509, c. 121.

The collector as-

sessed. them at the rate prescribed in that schedule as manu-

factures of wool
VOL. cxiv-1

22 Stat. 488j 508, c. 121.

This he did by

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

reason of an act claimed to have been passed by Congress, in
1890, as follows:
"Chap. 200. An act providing for the classification of
worsted cloths as woollens.
"Be it enacted, etc., That the Secretary of the Treasury be,
and he hereby is, authorized and directed to classify as woollen
cloths all imports of worsted cloth, whether known under the
name of worsted cloth or under the names of worsteds or diagonals or otherwise.
"Approved, May 9, 1890." 26 Stat. 105, c. 200.
The board of general appraisers found these facts:
"(1.) That the goods in question are worsted, and not
woollen goods.
"(2.) That the Secretary of the Treasury never examined
or classified the goods in question.
"(3.) That the journal of the House of Representatives
shows the facts attending the passage of the act of May 9,
1890, thus:
"The Speaker laid before the house the bill of the house
(H. R. 9548) providing for the classification of worsted cloths
as woollens, coming over from last night as unfinished business,
with the previous question, and the yeas and nays ordered.
"The house having proceeded to the consideration and the
question being put,
"Shall the bill pass?
"There appeared
"Yeas - 138.
"Nays - 0.
"Not voting - 189.
"The said roll-call having been recapitulated, thp: Speaker
announced, from a list noted and furn:hed by the clerk, at
the suggestion of the Speaker, the following-named members
as present in the hall when their names were called, and not
voting, viz.:
[Here follows an alphabetical list of the names of seventyfour members.]
"The Speaker thereupon stated that the said members

UNITED STATES v. BAIJIN.
Opinion of the Court.

present and refusing to vote, (74: in number,) together with
those recorded as voting, (138 in number,) showed a total of
212 members present, constituting a quorum present to do
business: and, that the yeas being 138 and the nays none, the
said bill was passed."
On appeal, the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York sustained the claim of. the
importers and reversed the decision of the collector, 45 Fed.
Rep. 170, from which judgment the'United States appealed to
this court.
.1. Attorney General and -M'. Solicitor General for appellant.
Mr. Edwin B. Smitk for appellees.
was with him on the brief.
Mm. JusTin

JMr. qtethen G. Clarke

BRgwRE delivered the opinion of the court.

Two questions only are presented: first, was the act of May
9, 1890, legally passed; and, second, what is its meaning? The
first is the important question. The enrolled bill is found in
the. proper office, that of the Secretary of 'State, authenticated
and approved in the. customary and legal form. There is
nothing on the face of it to suggest any invalidity., Is there
anything in the facts disclosed by the journal of the house,, as
found by the general appraisers, which vitiates it? We are
not unmindful of the general observations found in Gardner
v. The Colle6tor, 6 Wall. 499, 511, "that whenever 'a question
arises in a.court of law of the existence of a statute; or of the
time when a statute took effect, or of the precise terms of'a
statute, the judges who are called upon to decide it have a
right to resort to any source of inf6rmation which in its
nature is capable of conveying to the judicial mind a clear
and satisfactory answer to such question; always seeking first
for that which in its nature is most appropriate, unless the
positive law has enacted a different rule.", And we hawve at
the present term, in the case of Field v. Clark, 143 U. S.
649, had occasion to consider the subject of an appeal to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

journal in a disputed matter of this nature. It is unnecessary
to add anything here to that general discussion. The Constitution (Article 1, section 5) provides that "each house shall
keep a journal of its proceedings;" and that "the yeas and
nays of the members of either house on any question shall, at
the desire of one-fifth of those present, be entered on the journal." Assuming that by reason of this latter clause reference
may be had to the journal, to see whether the yeas and nays
were ordered, and if so, what was the vote disclosed thereby;
and assuming,'though without deciding, that the facts which
the Constitution requires to be placed on the journal may be
appealed to on the question whether a law has been legally
enacted, yet if reference may be had to such -journal, it must
be assumed to speak the truth. It cannot be that we can
refer to the journal for the purpose of impeaching a statute
properly authenticated and approved, and then supplement
and strengthen that impeachment by parol evidence that the
facts stated on the journal are not true, or that other facts
existed which, if stated on the journal, would give force to the
impeachment. If it be suggested that the Speaker might have
made a mistake as to some one or more of these seventy-four
members, or that the clerk'may have falsified the journal in
entering therein a record of their presence, it is equally possible that in reference to a roll-call and the yeas and nays there
should be a like mistake or falsification. The possibility of
such inaccuracy or falsehood only suggests the unreliability of
the evidence and the danger of appealing to it to. overthrow
that furnished by the bill enrolled and authenticated by the
signatures of the presiding officers of the two houses and the
President of the United States. The facts, then, as appearing
from this journal, are that at the time of the roll-call there
were present 212 members of the house, more than a qubrum;
and that 138 voted in favor of the bill, which was a majority
of those present. The Constitution, in the same section, provides, that "each house may determine the rules of its pro'ceedings." It appears that in pursuance of this authority
the house had, prior to that day, passed this as one of its
rules:

UNITED STATES v. BALLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

,,Rule XV
"3. On the demau of any me~aber, or at the suggestion
of the Speaker, the names of members sufficient to make a
quorum in the hall of the house who do not vote shall be
noted by the clerk and recorded in the journal, and reported
to the Speaker with the names of the members voting, and
be counted and announced in determining the presence of a
quorum to do business." (Ho. Journal, 230, Feb. 14, 1890.)
The action taken was in direct compliance with this rule.
The question, therefore, is as to the validity of this rule, and
not what methods the Speaker may of his own motion resort
to for determining the presence of a quorum, nor what matters the Speaker or clerk may of their own volition place upon
the journal. Neither do the advantages or disadvantages, the
wisdom or folly, of such a rule present any matters for judicial
consideration. With the courts the question is -only one of
power. The Constitution empowers each house to determine
its rules of proceedings. It may not by its rules ignore constitutional restraints or violate fundamental rights, and there
should be a reasonable relation between the mode or method
of proceeding established by the rule and ttie result which is
sought to be attained. But within these limitations all matters of method are -open to, the determinatio. of the house,
and it is no impeachment of the rule to say that some other
way would be better, more accurate or even more just. It is
no objection to the'validity of -arule that a different one has
been prescribed and in force for a length of time. The power
to make rules is not one which once exercised is exhausted. It
is a continuous power, always subject to be exercised by the
house, and within the limitations, suggested, absolute and
beyond the challenge of any other body or tribunal.
The Constitution provides that "a rhajority of each [house]
shall constitute a quorum to do business." In other words,
when a majority are present the house is in a position to do
business. Its capacity to transact business is then established,
created by the mere p~esence of a majority, and does not
depend upon'the disposition or assent or action, of any single

OOTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

member or fraction of the majority present. All that the
Constitution requires is the presence of a majority, and when
that majority are present the power of the house arises.
But how shall the presence of a majority be determined?
The Constitution has prescribed no method of making this
determination, and it is therefore within the competency of
the house to prescribe any method which shall be reasonably
certain to ascertain the fact. It may prescribe answer to rollcall as the only method of determination; or require the passage of members between tellers, and their count as the sole
test; or the count of the Speaker or the clerk, and an announcement from the desk of the names of those who are
present. Any one of these methods, it must be conceded, is
reasonably certain of acertaining the fact, and as there is no
constitutional method prescribed, and no constitutional inhibition of any of those, and no violation of fundamental rights
in any, it follows that the house may adopt either or all, or it
may provide for a combination of any two of the methods.
That was done by the rule in question; and all that that rule
attempts to d6 is to prescribe a method for ascertaining the
presence of a majority, and thus establishing the fact that the
house is in a condition to transact business.
As appears from the journal, at the time this bill passed the
house there was present a majority, a quorum, and the house
was authorized to transact any and all business. It was in a
condition to act on the bill if it desired. The other branch
of the question is, whether, a quorum being present, the bill
received a sufficient number of votes; and here the general
rule of all parliamentary bodies is that, when a quorum is
present, the act of a majority of the quorum is the act of the
body. This has been the rule for all time, except so far as in
any given case the terms of the organic act under which the
body is assembled have prescribed specific limitations. As,
for instance, in those States where the constitution provides
that a majority of all the members elected to either house
shall be necessary for the passage of any bill. No such limitation is found in the Federal Constitution, and therefore the
general law of such bodies obtains.

UNITED STATES v. BALLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

It is true that most of the decisions touching. this question
have been in respect to the actions of trustees and directors of
a private corporation, or of the minor legislative bodies which
represent and act for cities and other municipal corporations ;.but the principle is the same. The two houses of Congress are legislative bodies representing larger constituencies..
Power is not vested in any. one individual, but in the aggregate of the members who compose the body, and its action is
not the action. of any separate member or number of members,
but the action of the body as a whole; and the questiori which
han over and over again been raised is, what is necessary to
constitute the official action of this legislative and representative body. In Rexe v.,Zonday, 2 Cowp. 530, 538, Lord Mansfield
said: "I will take it for granted that a majority of the mayor
and aldermen for the time being are sufficient to constitute the assembly. And the fact found by the special verdict is
that the majority of those in being did meet. When the
assembly are duly met I take it to be clear law that the corporate act may be done by the majority of those who have
once regularly constituted the meeting." In 5 Dane's Abridgment, p. 150, the rule is thus stated: "When a corporation is
composed of a definitb number, and an integral'.part of it is
required to vote in an election, a majority of such integral
dejnitejpartmust attend, aliter there is no elective assembly,
but a majority of those present when legally met will bind the
rest." In 1 Dillon's Municipal Corporations, (fourth edition,)
section 283, the rule is thus stated: "And, as a general rule,
it may be stated that not only where the corporate power
resides in a select body, as a city council, but where it has
been delegated to a committee or to agents, then, in the absence
of special provisions otherwise, a minbrity of the select body,
or of the committee or agents, are powerless to bind the
majority or do any valid act. If all the members of the select
body or committee, or if all the agents are assembled, or if all
have been duly notified, and the minority refuse or neglect to
meet with the others, a majority of those present may act,
provided those piesent constitute a, majority of the whole
number. In other words, in such case, a major part of fhe

.8

OCTOBER TERIf, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

whole is necessary to constitute a quorum, and a majority of
the quorum may act. If the major part withdraw so as to
leave no quorum, the power of the minority to act is, in general, considered to cease." This declaration has been quoted
approvingly by this court in the case of Brown v. District of
Columbia, 127 U. S. 579, 586. In 2 Kent's Commentaries,
293, the author draws this distinction between what isnecessary to a meeting of a representative, and to that of a constituent body: "There is a distinction taken between a corporate act
to be done by a select and definite body as by a board of directors, and one to be performed by the constituent members. In
the latter case, a majority of those who appear may act; but
in the former, a majority of the definite body must be present,
and then a majority of the quorum may decide." See also
parte Willcocks, 7 Cowen, 402; Commonwealth v. Green, 4
pe
Wharton, 531; State v. Green, 37 Ohio St. 227; launtz v.
The People, 113 Illinois, 137; Gas Co. v. Rushville, 121
Indiana, 206; Gosling v. JVeley, 7 Q. B. 406; S. C. 4 H. L'
Cas. 679.
In State v. Deliesseline, I McCord, 52, it is said: "For.
according to the principle of all the cases referred to, a quorum
possesses all the powers of the whole body; a majority of
which quorum must, of course, govern. . . . The constitu.
tions of this State and the United States declare that a majority shall be a quorum to do business; but a majority of that
quorum are sufficient to decide the most important question."
In Wells v. Rahway Co., 4 C. E. Green (19 N. J. Eq.) 402,
we find this language: " A majority of the directors of a corporation, in the absence of any regulation in the charter, is a
quorum, and a majority of such quorum when convened can
do any act within the power of the directors."
And in Attorney General v. Shepard, 62 N. II. 383, 384, the
question was whether an amendment to a city charter had
been properly adopted by the board of aldermen. All the
members of the board were present but one. The ordinance
was duly read and put to a vote, and declared by the chair to
be passed. The-yeas and nays were then called; three voted
in the affirmative, three refused to vote, and the chair declared

UNITED STATES -v. BALLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

the ordinance passed. The court held, Chief Justice Doe
delivering the opinion, that the amendment to the charter was
legally adopted by the board of aldermen. He said: "The
exercise of law-making power is not stopped by the mere
silence and inaction of some of the law-makers who are present.
An arbitrary, technical, and exclusive method of ascertaining
whether a quorum is present, operating to prevent the performance of official duty and obstruct the business of government, is no part of our common law. The statute requiring
the presence of four alderm~en does not mean that in the presence of four a majority of the votes cast may not be enough.
The journal properly shows how many members were there
when the vote was taken by yeas and nays; there was no
difficulty in ascertaining and recording the fact; and the
requirement of a quorum at that time was not intended to
furnish a means of suspending the legislative power and duty
of a quorum. No illegality appears in the adoption of the
amendment."
Summing up this matter, this law is found in the Secretary
of State's office, properly authenticated. If we appeal to the
journal of the house,. we find that a majority-of its members
were present when the bill passed, a majority creating by the
Constitution a quorum, with authority to act upon any measure; that the presence of that quorum was determined in
accordance with a valid rule theretofore adopted by the house;
and that of that quorum a majority voted in favor of the bill.
It therefore legally passed the house, and the law as found in
the office of the Secretary of State is beyond challenge.
With reference to the other question: The opinion of the
Circuit Court seemed to be, that the act cast upon the Secretary of the Treasury a special duty of classification in all cases
of the importation of worsted cloths, and that unless he so
'acted in any particular case the duty remained as it was prior
to the passage of the act. We qdote its language: "This act,
however, proceeds upon an entirely novel theory. It provides
expressly for a classification in direct non-coiformity to the
facfs. It authorizes an officer of the government who may
find an import to be in fact an article which under the tariff

OCTOBER TERI,

1891.

Opinion of the Cour

laws pays one rate of duty to call it something else, which it
is not, in order to enable the revenue officers to levy upon it a
rate of duty which that other article, which it is not, pays.
S.I

do not mean by that to suggest for one moment

that under the phraseology of this act it is the duty of the
Secretary of the Treasury to himself examine the packages
of goods, to handle or see their contents; but, having been
informed and advised as to the facts in the same way in which
he is informed and advised upon any facts upon which he is
required to pass, by the examination and report of such trustworthy subordinates as he may select, the final classification
of the particular articles is one to be made by him."
We do not so construe the act. We understand it rather as
a declaration by Congress as to the construction to be placed
upon that portion of the act of 1883 which refers to imported
woollen cloths. It was an act suggested by the contest then
pending in the courts, and which was finally decided adversely
to the government in the case of Seeberer v. Cahn, 137 U. S.
95, in which it was held by this court that ".cloths popularly
known as ' diagonals,' and known in trade as 'worsteds,' and
composed mainly of worsted, but with a small proportion of
shoddy aiid of cotton, are subject to duty as a manufacture of
worsted, and not as a manufacture of wool, under the act
of March 3,1883, c. 121." The form of expression used in the
act may be novel, but the intent of Congress is quite clear.
Recognizing the fact that the Secretary of the Treasury is the
head of the financial department of the government, that to
him, as its chief administrative official, is given the supervision
of the tariff and all the collections thereunder, it directs him
to classify all worsted cloths as woollen cloths, and it gives to
him no discretion. He may not classify some worsteds as
woollens and others as not. There is given no choice or selection, but it is the imperative direction of Congress to him, as
the chief administrative officer in the collection of duties, to
place all worsted cloths, by whatever name properly known
or known to the trade, within the category of woollen cloths,
and, of course, if placed within that category, or using the
familiar language of the tariff, if "classified as woollen cloths,"

ANSONIA CO. '.

ELECTRICAL SUPPLY CO.

II

Statement of the Case.

subject to the duty imposed on such cloths. If action were
necessary by the Secretary of the Treasury to put'this act into
force, which was not as we think, such action 'was taken by the
circular letter of May 13, 1890, from the Treasury Department to all customs officers, publishing the act for the information and guidance of the public.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the act was legally passed;
and that by its own terms, and irrespective of any action by
the Secretary of the Treasury, the duties on worsted cloths
were to be such as were placed by the act of 1883 on woollen
cloths.
[he judgment of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and th8
case renundedforfurtherproceedings, 'in accordancewith
this opoinion.

ANSONIA BRASS AND COPPER COMPANY v. ELECTRICAL SUPPLY COMPANY.
A.PP1EAL FROx THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED 'STATES 'FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
No. 165. Argued January 19, 1892. -Decided

March 14,1892.

Letters patent No. 272,660, issued February 20, 1883, to Alfred A. Cowles
for an "insulated electric conductor," are void for want of patentable
novelty in the alleged invention covered by them.
The cases reviewed which establish (1) that the application of an old process or machine to a siilar or analogous subject, with no change in th6
manner of application and no result substantially distinct in its nature, will
not sustain a patent, even if the new form of result had not before been
contemplated; and (2)_that on the other hand, if an old device or process
be put to a new use which is not analogous to the old one, and the
adaptation of such process to the new use is of such a character as to
require the exercise of inventive skill to produce It, suc new use will
not be denied the merit of,patentability.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This was a bill in equity for the infringement of letters

