LIEBENROTH v. R OBERTSON .
Opinion of the, Court.

LIEBENROTH v. ROBERTSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 147. Argued March 2,1892. -Decided

March 14,1892.

Photographic Albums, made of paper, leather, metal clasps and plated clasps,
imported in April, May and June, 1885, the paper being worth more than
all the rest of the materials put together, were not liable to a duty of
30 per cent ad vaoremn, as "'manufactures and articles of leather," under
Schedule N of the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, (22 Stat. 513,) but were
liable to a duty of only 15 per cent ad vaZorem, under Schedule Al of
that act, (22 Stat. 510,) as a manufacture of paper, or of which paper
was "a component material, not specially enumerated or provided for"
in that act.
Under § 6 of that act, (p. 491,) title 83 of the Revised Statutes was abrogated after July 1, 1883, and § 2499 in that title was made to read so that
"on all articles manufactured from two or more materials the duty shall
be assessed at the highest rates at which the component material of chief
value'may be chargeable," instead of reading that "1on all articles manufactured from two or more materials the duty shall be assessed at the
highest rates at which any of its component parts may be chargeable;"
and that new provision was applicable to this cas6, although the new
§'2499 algo provided that "if two or more rates of 'duty should be applicable to any imported article it shall be classified for duty under the highest of such rate3."
This iast provision was not properly applicable, under § 2499, to an article
"manufactured from two or more materials," and it had sufficient scope
if applied to articles not manufactured from two or more materials, but
stilljrlmafacie subject to "two or more rates of duty."

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Xr. ephen G. Clarke for plaintiffs in error. .Mr. Edwin
-8. Smith and X1r. C'lr~es Curie were with him on the brief.
-Mr. Assistant Attorney General MAaury for defendant in
error.
:MR. JusTICE BLAToHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action at law, brought in the Superior Oourt of
the city of New York, by Adolph Liebenroth, Iwan Von

OCTOBER TERIM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Auw, William Graham and Ierman Schliecher, composing
the firm of Liebenroth, Von Auw & Co., against William 1-1.
:Robertson, collector of the port of New York, to recover the
sum of $552.55, as an alleged excess of duties exacted by the
defendant on importations into the port of New York of
photographic albums, in April, May and June, 1885, the duties
assessed having been paid, protests duly filed and appeals
taken to the Secretary of the Treasury. The suit was removed
by the defendant, by certiorari, into the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York. The
case was tried before the court and a jury, in January, 1888,
and a verdict found for the defendant by the direction of the
court, followed by a judgment for him for costs. The plaintiffs have.brought a writ of error.
There is a bill of exceptions, which shows that the substantive part of the protest was as follows: "We hereby protest
against your decision and assessment of duties, as made by
you, and the payment of more than as below claimed, on our
importations below mentioned, consisting of certain bound
albums or album books, claiming that, under existing laws,
and section 2499 and Schedule M, act of March 3, 1883, said
goods are liable to only 15% ad val. as a manufacture
of which paper is the component material of chief value, not
otherwise specially enumerated or provided for, or claiming
that, under existing laws, and particularly by said section and
said schedule, they are liable at, only 20% ad val. as
'blank books,' or said goods are liable at no more than 25%
ad 'val. as ' books,' under same section and schedule."
The duty was exacted and paid at the rate of 30 per cent
ad valorem on the goods, as manufactures of articles of leather,
or of which leather was a component part, they being composed of paper, leather, metal clasps and plated clasps, and of
their various component materials, the paper being, in ninetynine cases out of a hundred, worth more than all the rest of
the materials put together. The examiner in the appraiser's
department testified, on the trial, that he classified the goods
as "manufactures of leather and paper, leather chief value,"
but that his classification was erroneous, because the paper

LIEBENROTH v. ROBEWTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

was the material of chief value. They were dutiable under the
act of March 3, 1883,'c. 121, (22 Stat. 488).
Neither photographic albums nor albums of any kind were
specified by those names as dutiable. Schedule N of that act
(p. 513) imposes a duty of 30 per cent ad valorem on "all
manufactures and articles of leather, or of which leather shall
be a component part, not specially enumerated or provided for
in this act." By Schedule M of the act (p. 510) a duty of 15
per cent ad valorem is imposed on "paper, manufactures of,
or of which paper is a component material, not specially enumerated or provided for in this act;" and a duty of 20 per
cent ad valorem on "blank books, bound or unbound, and
blank books for press copying," and also a duty of 25 per cent
ad valorem on "books, pamphlets, bound or unbound,
not specially enumerated or provided for in this act."
By title 33 of the Revised Statutes, § 2499, it was provided
as follows: "There shall be levied, collected and paid on each
and every non-enumerated article which bears a similitude,
either in material, quality, texture or the use to which it may
be applied, to any article enumerated in this title, as chargeable with duty, the same rate of duty which is levied and
charged on the enumerated article which it most resembles
in any of the particulars before mentioned; and if any nonenumerated article equally resembles two or more enumerated
articles, on which different rates of duty are chargeable, there
shall be levied, collected and paid, on such non-enumerated
article, the same rate of duty as is chargeable on the article
which it resembles paying the highest duty; and on all articles manufactured from two or more materials the duty
shall be assessed at the highest rates at which any of its component.partsmay be chargeable."
By § 6 of the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, (22 Stat. 489,
491,) title 33 of the Revised Statutes was abrogated after July
1, 1883, and the following section was substituted as § 2499:
"There shall be levied, collected, and paid on each and every
non-enumerated article which bears a similitude, either in ma.
terial, quality, texture or the use to which it may be applied,
to any article enumerated in this title as chargeable with duty,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the same rate of duty which is levied and charged on the
enumerated article which it most resembles in any of the particulars before mentioned; and if any non-enumerated article
equally resembles two or more enumerated articles on which
different rates are chargeable, there shall be levied, collected
and paid on such non-enumerated article the same rate of duty
as is chargeable on the article which it resembles paying the
highest duty; and on all articles manufactured from two or
more materials the duty shall be assessed at the highest rates
at which the component mate'ial of chief value may be chargeable. If two or more rates of duty should be applicable to any
imported article it shall be classified for duty under the highest of such rates: Provided, That non-enumerated articles
similar in material and quality and texture, and the use to
which they may be applied, to articles on the free list, and
in the manufacture of which no dutiable materials are used,
shall be free."
In comparing the former and later enactments of § 2499, it
is to be noted that in the later one the words "of duty," in
italics, are omitted; that the words in the earlier one, "at
which any of its component parts may be chargeable," in italics, are omitted, and the words in the later one, "at which the
component material of chief value may be chargeable," in italics, are substituted therefor; and that the following language
is added in the later enactment, which does not appear in the
earlier one: "If two or more rates of duty should be applicable to any imported article, it shall be classified for duty
under the highest of such rates: Provided, That non-enumerated articles similar in material and quality and texture, and
the use to which they may be applied, to articles on the free
list, and in the manufacture of which no dutiable materials
are used, shall be free."
At the close of the plaintiffs' testimony, the defendant,
without putting in any evidence, moved the court to direct a
verdict in his favor. The court did so, the plaintiffs excepted,
and a verdict was rendered for the defendant.
The question is as to whether the proper rate of duty on
the goods was 30 per cent ad valorem or only 15 per cent ad

LIEBENROTH v. ROBERTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

'vatorem. Leather was a component part or material of the

article, and was dutiable at 30 per cent. Paper was a component part or material of the article, and was dutiable at 15
per cent. On the view that both of those two rates of duty
were applicaible to the article, and that there was a provision
in § 2499, as enacted by the act of March 3, 1883, that in such
case the article should be classified for duty under the highest
of the two rates, that is, in this case, 30 per cent, that rate of
duty was assessed.
The reasons assigned by the Circuit Court for directing a
Yerdict for the defendant are reported in 33 Fed. Rep. 457;
and it would appear from them that the court gave no effect
to the later provision in § 2499, as enacted by the act of March
3, 1883, that "on all articles manufactured from two or more
materials the duty shall be assessed at the highest rates at
which the component- material of chief value may be chargeable."
These albums were articles manufactured from materials
two of which were paper and leather; and, as the evidence
distinctly showed that the paper was the component material
of chief value, the duty was assessable under Schedule M of
the act of 1883, at 15 per cent, under the clause imposing that
duty on "paper, manufactures of, or of which paper is a component material, not specially enumerated or provided for in
this act."
The change, in the later, enactment of § 2499, of the duty
on "all articles manufactured from two or more materials,"
from a duty, "at the highest rates at which any of its component parts may be chargeable," to a duty, "at the highest
rates at which the component material of chief value may be
chargeable," is very significant, especially considered in connection with the new provision in the later § 2499, that, "if two
or more rates of duty should be, applicable to any imported
article, it shall be classified for duty under the highest of such
rates." There was clearly a new classification provided for as
to "all articles manufactured from two or more materials,"
based upon the highest rate chargeable on "the component
material of chief value;" and the further new provision was

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

added, imposing the highest rate of duty where two or more
rates of duty were applicable to an article. This last provision was not properly applicable, under § 24:99, to an article
"manufactured from two or more materials," and it had sufficient scope if applied to articles not manufactured from two
or more materials, but still prima facie subject to "two or
more rates of duty."
The decision by the Circuit Court in the present case was
made in January, 1888. Since that date there have been three
decisions by this court bearing on the question involved.
In Arthur v. Butterel#d, 125 U. S. 70, 76, decided in March,
1888, it was held, under the later § 2499, that "to place articles among those designated as enumerated, it is not necessary
It is sufficient
that they should be specifically mentioned.
that they are designated in any way to distinguish them from
other articles;" and that the words "manufactures of hair"
were a sufficient designation to place such manufactures among
the enumerated articles.
In Ilartranftv. Meyer, 135 U. S. 237, 239, decided in April,
1890, attention was called to the change made by the act of
1883 in § 2499, in regard to "articles manufactured from two
or more materials," assessing the duty on them "at the highest rates at which the component material of chief value may
be chargeable," instead of "at the highest rates at which any
of its component parts may be chargeable," as a change by
which, " instead of making the duty depend on the highest'
rate at which any compoiient part is chargeable, it is made to
depend on the highest rate at which the component material
of chief value is chargeable;" and in that case, the article being composed of silk, cotton, and wool, the silk being the component material of chief value, this court held that the duty
was chargeable at the silk rate, which was higher than the
rate chargeable on the other component materials of the
goods.
So, too, in _Mason v. Robertson, 139 U. S. 624, decided in
April, 1891, § 2499, as enacted by the act of March 3, 1883,
was under consideration, and Arthur v. Butterfield and Hartranft v. Meyer were cited. The question was whether bichro-

WILSON v., SELIGMAN.
Syllabus.

mate of soda was a non-enumerated article, within the "similitude clause" of § 2499, and thus subject to the same duty
as bichromate of potash, which was specifically enumerated,
or was subject to duty as a chemical compound and salt, not
specially enumerated or provided for in that act. The Circuit
Court had ruled that the article was a non-enumerated one,
bearing a similitude in use to bichromate of potash, had declined to submit to the jury the question of similitude, and had
directed a verdict for the defendant. The importer claimed
that the. article was liable to a duty of only 25 per cent ad
valorem, as a chemical compound and salt not specially enumerated or provided for in the act. This court reversed the
judgment of the Circuit Court, and alluded to the fact that
the description "manufactures composed wholly of cotton," or
even "manufactures of cotton," had been held to be a sufficient enumeration, citing Stuart v. .Maxwell, 16 How. 150, and
Fisk v. Arthur, 103 U. S. 431, and holding that there was
nothing in its decision inconsistent with the decisions in Stuart
v. -Maxwell, 16 How. 150, and in A'rthur v. Fox, 108 U. S.
125.
[[he judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case
is remanded to that court with an instruction to grant a
new trial,

WILSON v. SELIGMAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 177. Argued and submitted March 1, 2, 1892.-

Decided March 14, 1892.

Under the- statute of Missouri, authorizing execution upon a judgment
against a corporation to be ordered against any of its stockholders to
the extent of the unpaid balance of their stock, "upon motion in open
court, after sufficient notice in writing to the persons sought to be
charged," a notice served in another State upon a person alleged to be a
stockholder, and who has never resided iu- Missouri, is insufficip.nt to
support an order charging him"iyith personafliakility.

