GLASPELL v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

211

Syllabus.

.r.

A. IF. -Hulns for defendants in error.

iXr. D. X.

Wison was with him on the brief.
THE CmEF JusTcE: The writ of error is dismissed because

no Federal question is involved, upon the authority, among
other cases, of Railroad Co. v. Rook, 4 Wall. 117, 181 ; Lehigh

W ater Co. v. Easton, 121 U. S. 388;
. 0. Water Works Co.
v. Louisiana Bugar.Refting 'Co., 125 U. S. 18, 80; and Rail-

road Co. v. Todd County, 142 U. S. 282.
Tirit of errordismissed.

GLASPELL v. NOIRTHERN PAIFIC RAILROAD

OOMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOP THE
DISTICOT OF WORTH DAIKOTA.
No. 1330. Submitted Mareb 14, 1892. -Decided

April

4,

1892.

Upon the trial of this case in the District Court in Dakota, a verdict wap
returned, November 24, 1888, in favor of plaintiff for $12,545.43, and
judgment was rendered accordingly November 26, 1888. On November.
28, 1888, the court made an order by consent extending the time for
serving notice of intention to move for a new trial, for motion for new
trial, and for settlement of a bill of exceptions until January 28, 1889-,
which time was subsequently extended by order of court for reason
given, to February 28, and thence again "for cause" to March 28, 1889,
upon which day the following ordet was entered: "The defendant having served upon plaintiff a proposed bill of exceptions herein, the time
for settlement of same is hereby extended from March 28, 1889, to April
10, 1889, and the time within which to serve notice of the intention to
move for new trial, and within which to move for new trial, is hereby
extended to April 13th, 1889." The time was again extended to May 31,
1889, and on the 23d day cf that month the following order was entered:
"The date for settling the bill of exceptions proposed by the defendant
herein is hereby extended to June 29, 1889. Defendant may have until
ten days after the settling of said bill within which to serve notice of
intention to move for a new trial, and within which to move for a new
trial in said action." This was the last order of extension. On December 14, 1889, there was iled in the office of the clerk of the District
Court a notice of motion for new trial, -which was as follows: "Take
notice that the motion for a new trial herein will be brought on for argu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
ment before the court at chambers, at Jamestown, Dakota, on September 12, 1889, at 10 o'clock A.21., or .as soon thereafter as counsel can be
heard."
On the margin of this notice appeared this indorsement:
"Hearing continued until the 21st September, 1889. Roderick Rose,
Judge." The notices and motion seem to have been served September 3,
1889. The bill of exceptions was signed August 30, 1889, and filed September 3, 1889. The certificate thereto concluded thus: "Filed as a part
of the records in this action this August 30th, 1889, (and within the time
provided by law, as enlarged and extended by orders of the judge of this
court.)" On February 17, 1890, the judge further certified: " The above
and foregoiug certificate is hereby modified and corrected so as to conform to the facts and record in the case by striking out all that part of
it in the two last lines thereof preceding my signature and after the
words and figures ' August 30th, 1889."' On November 2, 1889, the State
Qf North Dakota was admitted into the Union. Held,
(1) That this bill of exceptions was not settled and filed within the time
allowed by law or under any order of the court;
(2) That the alleged motion for a new trial not having been filed until
December 14, 1889, was not made, and no notice of intention to
make it was given, within the time allowed by law or by any order
of the court;
(3) That a renewal of notice and motion after the State was admitted, if
it could have been made, would necessarily have been in the state
court, whose jurisdiction would have attached to determine it.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This was an action brought by Glaspell against the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company, February 24, 1885, in the District
Court for Stutsman County, in the Sixth Judicial District of
the Territory of Dakota, to recover damages for deceit in the
sale by defendant to plaintiff of two thousand two hundred
and forty acres of land. Upon the trial of the case in that
court a verdict was returned, November 24, 1888, in favor of
plaintiff for $12,545.43, and judgment was rendered thereon,
November 26, 1888, for said amount, with costs, taxed at
$64.15. On November 28, 1888, the court made an order by
consent extending the time for serving notice of intention to
move for a new trial, for motion for new trial, and for settlement of a bill of exceptions until January 28, 1889, which
tiae was subsequently extended by order of court for reason
given, to February 28, and thence again "for cause" to March
28, 1889, upon which day the following order was entered:

GLAOPELL v. NORTHERN PACIFIO RAILiOAD.

213

Statement of the Case.

"The defendant having 'served upon pl6intiff a proposed bill
of exceptions herein, the-tim for settlement of same is hereby
extended from :March 28, 1889, to April 10, 1889- and the time
within which to serve notice of the intention to move for new
trial, and within which to move for new trial, is hereby
extended to April 13th, 1889." The time was again extended
to May 31, 1889, and on the 23d day of that month the following order was entered: "The date for settling the bill of
exceptions proposed by the defendant herein is hereby extended
to June 29, 1889. Defendant may have until ten days after
the settling of said bill within which to serve notice of intention to move for a new trial, and within which to move for a
new trial in gaid action." This was the lat order of extension.
On December 14, 1889, there was filed in the office of the
clerk of the District Court for Stutsman County, .INorth
Dakota,' a notice of intention to move for, a new trial and a
notice of a motion for new trial. The- notice of -intention
stated that the motion would be made upon the bill of exceptions, &c., and the notice of motion was as follows: "Take
notice that the motion for a new trial herein will be brought
on for argument before the court at chambers, at Jamestown,
Dakota, on'September 12, 1889, at 10 o'clock A.M., or as soon
thereafter as counsel can be heard." On the margin of this
notice appeared this indorsement: "Hearing continued until
the 21st September, 1889. Roderick :Rose, Judge."
The notices and motion seem to have been served September 3, 1889. The bill of exceptions was signed August 30,
1889, and filed September 3, 1889. The certificate thereto
concluded thus: 1 Filed as a part of the records in this action
this August 30th, 1889, -(and within the time provided by law,
as enlarged and extended by orders of the judge of this
court.")
On February 11, 1890, the judge further certified: "The
above and foregoing certificate is hereby modified and corrected so as to conform to the facts and record in the case by
striking out all that part of it in the two last lines thereof preceding my signature and after the words and figures ' August
30th, 1889.'"

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case

On November 2, 1889, the State of North Dakota was
admitted into the Union. On the 7th of December, 1889,
there was filed in the District Court for Stutsman County,
North Dakota, th6 petition of the defendant stating that it is
a corporation created under acts of Congress; that the action
was commenced and was now pending in said District Court;
setting forth the trial, verdict and judgment, the settlement
and allowance of -the bill of exceptions August 30, 1889, the
service of notice of intention to move for a new trial, the contin ace of the hearing of the motion until September 21,
1889; and alleging that the motion had not been decided, but
was now pending; that the matter in controversy exceeded
two thousand dollars exclusive of costs; that the action was
one arising under the laws of the United States, and to which
moreover petitioner had a defence arising under such laws;
that the action arose and was commenced in the Territory of
Dakota and within the limits of that portion of the Territory
which had since been admitted into the Union as the State of
North Dakota; that the action was pending in the District
Court of Stutsman County at the time of the admission of the
State, and "is a suit of which the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of North Dakota might have had jurisdiction under the laws of the United States had such Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of North Dakota
been in existence at the time of the commencement of said
action;" and that the petitioner is entitled under the acts of
Congress in such cases made and provided, and more particularly under the act of Congress approved February 22, 1889,
to enable the people of North Dakota, etc., to form a constitution and state government, and to be admitted into the Union,
to remove said suit into the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of North Dakota for proceedings therein; and
petitioner accordingly tenders bond, etc. Bond in the usual
form on removal was filed at the same time with the petition.
On March 14, 1890, the clerk of the District Court certified to
copies of the petition and bond, and also that he refused "to
transmit the files, records and proceedings in said cause to the
United States Circuit Court for the District of North Dakota

GLASPELL v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

215

Statement of the Case.

for the sole reason that the judge of the District Court for
Stutsman County has forbidden me so to do."
On March 26, 1890, the defendant applied to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of North Dakota
for an alternative writ of certiorari directed to the judge of
the Districk Court of the Fifth Judicial District within and
for Stutsman County, North Dakota, upon the affidavit of the
attorney for the defendant, together with copies of the petition
and bond duly certified by the clerk of the state court. The
affidavit was to the effect that "after the admission into the
Union of the State of North Dakota, and prior to the filing of
said petition in the office of the clerk of the District Court for
Stutsman County, your petitioner did not in any manner invoke the aid or action of the state court in said cause; that
during the period aforesaid the state court did not make any
orders or exercise any act of jurisdiction in said cause, save
that all the papers, files and proceedings and records theiein
remained and now remain in the care and custody of the clerk
of said court for Stutsman County as the successor in office of
the clerk of the Territorial District Court where.in said action
originated, was tried, and was pending at the date of the admission of the State of North Dakota into the Union;" and
that the legal fees due the clerk of the state court had been
tendered, and demand made that he transmit the files, records
and proceedings to the United States court, which he refused
to do. Thereupon an alternative writ of certiorariwas issued
in said cause directed to the judge of the District Court for
the Fifth Judicial District of North Dakota, requiring him to
show cause, etc., to which the clerk of the state court by direction of the judge of said court made a return, setting up the'
institution of the action, the verdict and judgment, the various
orders extending the time for settling the bill of exceptions,
the signing of the bill August 30, 1889, and the certificates of
that date and of February 17, 1890, etc. The return also
stated that "an execution was issued on said judgment, February 17, 1890, and is now in the hands of the sheriff of Stutsman County." The clerk further certified that at no time had
the defendant demanded a certified copy or 'transcript of the

OCTOBER: TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

files, records and proceedings' but that he demanded that the
clerk transfer to the Circuit Court t-9 original files and proceedings in the action.
A motion was made April 7, 1890, to discharge the order to
show cause and overruled, and the writ of certiorari ordered
to issue July 11, 1890, requiring the clerk of the District Court
of Stutsman County to transmit to.the United States court at

Bismarck "all the files, records and proceedings of said case,
and certified copies of any entries in the books of all records
remaining in said District Court of Stutsman County in this

cause."

The writ thereupon issued, and was complied with

July 28, 1890. A motion to remand was then made in the
Circuit Court and denied, and on October 10, 1890, a motion
for a new trial was heard and taken under advisement, and
granted November 3, 1890. 43 Fed. IRep. 900.
The case was subsequently retried in the Circuit Court, the
plaintiff insisting throughout upon his objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and resulted in a verdict for plaintiff for
$1120. on which judgment was entered with costs taxed at
$249.95. From that judgment this writ of error is prosecuted.
.Mr. -Edgar If. Camp and .Xr. Samuel Z. Glaspell for
plaintiff in error.
.r. A. H. Garland and Mr. H. J May for defendant in
error.
MiR.

CHIEF JusTIcE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
The constitution of North Dakota was submitted to a vote
of the people on the first Tuesday in October, 1889, (falling
that year on the first day of the month,) at which time all the
State and District officers created and made elective by the
instrument, including the judges of the Supreme and District
Courts, were elected, it being also provided that they should
take the required oaths of office within sixty days after the
proclamation of the President admitting the State. This was

G]BASPELL v. NORTHERN' PACIFIC RAILROAD.

217T

Opinion of the Court.

issued November 2, 1889, but during the interval, from October I to the qualification of the judges, the continuity of the
courts was preserved by the sixth section of the schedule to,
the constitution, (Laws N. Dakota, 1891, p. 55,) which reads
thus:
"ยง 6. Whenever any two of the judges of the Supreme
Court of the State, elected under the provisions of this constitution shall have qualified in their offices, the causes then
pending in the Supreme Court of the Territory on appeal or
writ of error from the District Courts of any county or subdivision within the limits of this State, and the papers, rcords
and proceedings of said.court shall pass into the jurisdiction
and possession of the Supreme Court of the State, except as
otherwise provided in the Enabling Act of Congress, and until
so suiperseded the Supreme Court of the Territory and the
judges thereof shall continue, with like powers and jurisdiction
as if this constitution had not been adopted
Whenever the
judge of the District Court of any district elected under the
provisions of this constitution shall have qualified in his office,
the several causes then pending in the District Court of the
Territory within any county in such district, and the records,
papers and proceedings of said District Court, and the seal and
other property pertaining thereto, shall pass into the jurisdiction and possession of the District Court of the State for such
county, except as provided in the Enabling Act, of Congress,
and until the District Courts of this Territory shall be superseded in the manner aforesaid, the said District Courts and the
judges thereof shall continue with the same, jurisdiction and
power to be exercised in the same judicial districts respectively
as heretofore constituted under the laws of the Territory."
The twenty-third section of the act of Congress of February
22, 1889, entitled, "An. act to provide for the division of
Dakota into two States and to enable the people of North
Dakota, Soutl Dakota, Montana and Washington,. to form
constitutions and state governments and to be admitted into
the Union on an equal footing with the original States and to
make donations of public lands to such States," is as follows:,
"SEC. 23. That in respect 'to all cases, proceedings and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

matters now pending in the Supreme or District Courts of
either of the Territories mentioned in this act at the time of
the admission into the Union of either of the States mentioned
in this act and arising within the limits of any such State,
whereof the Circuit or District Courts by this act established
might have had jurisdiction under the laws of the United
States had such courts existed at the time of the commencement of such cases, the said Circuit and District Courts, respectively, shall be the successors of said Supreme and District
Courts of said Territory; and in respect to all other cases,
proceedings and matters pending in the Supreme or District
Courts of any of the Territories mentioned in this act at the
time of the admission of such Territory into the Union,
arising within the limits of said proposed State, the courts
established by such State shall, respectively, be the successors
of said Supreme and District Territorial courts; and all the
files, records, indictments and proceedings relating to any such
cases, shall be transferred to such Circuit, District and state
courts, respectively, and the same shall be proceeded with
therein in due course of law; but no writ, action, indictment,
cause or proceeding now pending, or that prior to the admission of any of the States mentioned in this act, shall be pending in any territorial court in any of the Territories mentioned
in this act, shall abate by the admission of any such State into
the Union, but the same shall be transferred and proceeded
with in the proper United States Circuit, District or state
court, as the case may be; -Provided,however, That in all
civil actions, causes and proceedings, in which the United
States is not a party, transfers shall not be made to the Circuit and District Courts of the United States, except upon
written request of one of the parties to such action or proceeding filed in the proper court; and in the absence of such request such cases shall be proceeded with'in the proper state
courts." (25 Stat. c. 180, 676, 683.)
This section embodies the view thus expressed by Mr. Tustice Clifford, speaking for the court, in Baker v. Morton, 12
Wall. 150, 153: "Whenever a Territory is admitted into the
Union as a State, the cases pending in the territorial courts

GLASPELL v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

219

Opinion of the Court.

of a Federal character or jurisdiction are transferred to the
proper Federal court, but all such as are not cognizable in the
Federal courts are transferred to the tribunals of the new
State. Pending cases, where the Federal and state courts
have concurrent jurisdiction, may be transferred either to the
state or Federal courts by either party possessing that option
under the existing laws."
By its terms, cases exclusively of Federal jurisdiction are
consigned to the courts of the United States, and cases exclusively of state jurisdiction to the courts of the State, while
the proviso applies to cases of concurrent jurisdiction, which
may proceed in the state courts or be transferred on request
to the United States courts. But in order to such transfer,
the action, cause or proceeding must be "pending."
Assuming that, because defendant was a corporation created
by the United States, this was a case "whereof the Circuit or
District Courts by this act established might have had jurisdiction under the laws of the United States had. such -courts
existed at the time of the commencement" of the case, and
that if it stood on motion for new trial it was so far pending
as to be susceptible of removal, what-was the fact when the
petition was filed in the state court December 7,1889 ?
By section 5343 of the Compiled Laws of Dakota of 1887,
referred to by counsel for defendant, it was provided that "an
action is deemed to be pending from the time of its commencement until its final determination upon appeal, or until
the time for appeal has passed, unless the judgment be sooner
satisfied." But the meaning of the act of Congress is not to
be determined by provisions of that character in territorial
laws. If this case had gone to judgment and no motion for a
new trial had been made, or, if made, had been abandoiaed or
overruled prior to the admission of the State, then there was
no cause, proceeding or matter pending which would justify
the Circuit Court in taking jurisdiction.
Under section 5216 of the Dakota Code, already referred to,
appeals "must be taken within two years after the judgment
shall be perfected, by filing the judgment roll."
The conclusion that cases in the Dakota local courts are

OCTOBER TERIf, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

pending, without action therein, for two years after rendition
of judgment, so as to be capable of being transferred on re-

quest into the Circuit Court, is quite inadmissible.
The record of cases of exclusive Federal jurisdiction which
have gone to judgment should, indeed, be transmitted to the

Circuit Court and the judgments there enforced, but where
final judgment has been rendered in cases of concurrent jurisdiction, no reason can be assigned for, nor do the terms of the

act of Congress contemplate, such a transfer.
By section 5090 of the Compiled Statutes of Dakota: "The

party intending to move for a new trial must, within twenty
days after the verdict of the jury, if the, action were tried by
jury, 'or after notice of the decision of the court, if the action
were tried without a jury, serve upon the adverse party a
notice of his intention, designating the statutory grounds upon
which the motion will be made and whether the same will be
made upon affidavits, or the minutes of the court, or a bill of
exceptions, or a statement of the case," etc.
Under section 5092: "The application for a new trial shall
be heard at the earliest practical period after service of notice
of intention, if the motion is to be heard upon the minutes of
the court, and in other cases, after the affidavits are served or
the bill of exceptions or statement, as the case may be, is filed,
and may be brought to a hearing in open court or before the
judge at chambers, in any county in the district in which the
action was tried, by either party, upon notice of eight days to
the adverse party, specifying the time and place of hearing,"
etc.
Section 5083 provides: "When a party desires to have
exceptions taken at a trial settled in a bill of exceptions, he
may, within thirty days- after the entry of judgment, if the
actions were tried with a jury, or after receiving notice of the
entry of judgment, if the action was tried without a jury, or
such further time as the court in which the action is pending,
or a judge thereof, may allow, prepare a draft of a bill and
serve the same, or a copy thereof, upon the adverse party.
Such draft must contain all the exceptions taken, upon which
the party relies. Within twenty days after such service the

GLASPELL v. NORTHlERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

221

Opinion of the Court.

adverse party may propose amendments thereto and serve the
same, or a copy thereof, upon the other party. The proposed
bill and amendments must, within ten days thereafter, be presented by the party seeking the settlement of the bill to the
judge who tried or heard the case, upon five days' notice to
the adverse party, or be delivered to the clerk of the court
for the judge. . .
Section 5093 reads: "The court or judge may, upon good
cause shown, in furtherance of justice, extend the time within
which any of the acts mentioned in sections 5083 and -5090
may be done, or may, after the time limited therefor has expired, fix another time within which any of -such acts marbe
done."
Section 4939 provides: "The court may likewise, i its discretion, and upon such terms as may be just, allow an answer
or reply to be made, or other. act to be done, after the time
limited by this code, or, by an order, enlarge such time; and
may also, in its discretion, and upon such terms as may be
just, at any time within one year after notice thereof, relieve
a party from a judgment, order or other proceeding taken
against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
excusable neglect, and may supply an omission in any proceeding," etc.
In St. Croix.Lumer Co. v. Pe~nington,2"Dakota, 461, the
Supreme Court of the Territory decided that, under the code
as it then existed, if a bill of exceptions was not presented for
settlement within the time fixed by statute, or such other
time as might be allowed by the court or judge, no power
existed for its allowance. But the Supreme Court of North
Dakota, in .orthzern PacifoRailroadCo. v. 7ohnson, 1 North
Dakota, 354, held that, under sectiofis 4939 and 5093- of the
Compiled Laws, the District Court could, after the time
granted for settling a bill had expired, without making an
order extending the time, and against objection, settle and
allow such bill; the order of settling operating to extend the
time until the date of actual settlement; and that "until the
time for appeal has expired, all of the various steps leading
up to and including a motion for a new trial may, with respect

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

to time, after statutory time has elapsed, be taken at any
time allowed by the sound judicial discretion of the trial court.
This court will presume that such discretion is properly exercised in all cases until the contrary appears."
.In .3foe v. irorthern Pacific Railroad Co o0 N. W. Rep.
715, however, the court held that the authority conferred by
section 5093 to extend the time to settle bills of exceptions
and statements after the statutory periods for so doing had
expired, ' !is not an absolute, non-reviewable discretion, but on
the contrary, such discretion is a sound judicial discretion, and
can be exercised only upon the conditions named in the statute, i.e., ' upon good cause shown in furtherance of justice.' Where the cause shown is spread out in full upon the
record in the court below, and an objection to the action of
the court below in settling the bill or statement is properly
made, this court, upon a motion to purge its records, will
review the cause shown; and if, in the opinion of this court,
good cause was not shown for settling the bill or statement
after time, such motion will be granted, and the bill or statement will be stricken out."
In the case at bar, the time within which to settle a bill of
exceptions was extended six times. The first ,was by consent
of counsel, the second for reasons given, the third, as asserted,
"upon good cause shown," and the fourth, fifth and last
extension assigned no ground. The last order of extension
expired June 29, 1889, defendant having ten days after the
settling of the bill within which to serve notice of intention to
move for new trial and within which to move for a new trial.
The bill of exceptions was, nevertheless, signed August .30,
1889, and filed September 3. The certificate originally stated
not only the date but that the settlement was "within the
time provided by law, as enlarged and extended by orders of
the judge of this court," but subsequently these words were
stricken out by the judge, and the question whether the bill
was improvidently signed or not was left open, unless the rule
be applied, as subsequently laid down by the Supreme Court
of the State, that the settlement, whenever made, in itself
operated to extend the time. Notice of the intention to move

GLASPELL b. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

223

Opinion of the Court.

'nd of the motion appear to have been given on the third of
September, returnable on September 12, 1889, and the hearing appears to have been extended by the judge until September 21. Here the record becomes silent.
It is nowhere disclosed that the defendant appeared to prosecute its motion. on the 21st of September, and whatever liberality might be indulged under the provisions of the territorial
code, as now expounded by the Supreme Court of the State,
we are not prepared to hold, in passing upon the question
before us, that any motion was pending on the 7th of December, 1889, there being no evidence whatever that a
motion was ever made, except the action of the court assigning the hearing of a proposed motion for a day more than
two months before, which came and went without such
hearing, the meditated motion having apparently been waived
and abandoned.
This bill of exceptions was not settled and filed within the
time allowed by law or under any order of the court. The
alleged motion for a new trial was not fled until December
14, 1889, and had not been made, and no notice of intention
to make it given, within the time allowed by law or by any
order of the court. If such notice of intention could lawfully
have been given or renewed, or such motion have lawfully been
made, within the view of the state tribunal, notwithstanding
the expiration of time, this had not been aone, and the motion
was not pending within the intent and meaning of the twentythird section of the Enabling Act, when the application for
removal was made, even if a removal could have been had,
thereunder, if such a motion had been then pending. And the
renewal of notice and motion after the State was admitted, if
it could have been made, would necessarily have been in the
state court, whose jurisdiction would have attached to determine it. On August 22, 1890, notice was given that "' the
motion for a new trial heretofore made in this action" would
be brought on for hearing, in the Circuit Court, on September 5, 1890, and the record recites that on October 10, 1890,
"1defendant moves for a new trial." The motion could not be
treated as having come over from the territorial court, nor

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

could such a motion be made in the Circuit Court, as final
judgment precluded the transfer.
We are of opinion that the motion to remand should have
been sustained, and, therefore,
Reverse the judgment, and remand the case to the Circuit
Court with directions to send it back to the District Court
for the ,ffth judicial district, Stutsman County, Xorth
Dakota, and to return the originaliles to that court.

POPE MANUFACTURINOG COMPATY v. GOIRMULLY.
APPERAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLIN(IS.
No. 204.

Argued March 9, 10, 1892. -Decided

April 4, 1892.

A court of equity will not enforce the specific performance of a contract
wherein the defendant, in consideration of 'eceiving a license to use
certain patents belonging to the plaintiff during the life of such patents,
agrees never to import, manufacture or sell any machines or devices
covered by certain other patents, unless permitted in writing so to do,
nor to dispute or contest the validity of such patents or plaintVi's title
thereto, and further to aid and morally assist the plaintiff in maintaining
public respect for and preventing infringements upon the same, and further agrees that if, after the termination of his license, he shall continue
to make, sell or use any machine or part thereof containing such
patented inventions, the plaintiff shall have the right to treat him as an
infringer, and to sue out an injunction against him without notice.

THis was an appeal from a decree dismissing a bill in equity,
wherein the plaintiff sought an accounting upon a contract,
and an injunction prohibiting the defendant from manufacturing and selling bicycles and tricycles containing certain patented devices, in violation of a contract entered into between
the parties on December 1, 1884. A copy of this contract is
printed in the margin.'
I This agreement made this first day of December, 1884, by and between
the Pope Manufacturing Company, a corporation established under the laws
of Connecticut and having a place of business in Boston, Massachusetts,

