TORRENCE v. SHEDD.
Statement of the Case.

to have acquired a good title to the property, although purchased during the pendency of this litigation, and although
the title which Mrs. Gale acquired might have been impeachable for fraud. It is true that Airs. McKennan was a sister of
Gale, living in IRochester, N. Y., and bought the property
while on a visit to' her brother; but she swears that she paid
$8000 for it, and there is nothing above the dignity of a suspicion to contradict her.
Several other errors in the action. of the court below are set
up in the assignment, but they are either immaterial or have
been already disposed of in the assignnents passed upon.
The judgment of the court below will, therefore, be
Affirme, and the mandate will icsue to the Supreme 0ourt
of South Dakota.

TORRENCE v. SHEDD.
APPEAL FROm THE CIRoUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 244.

Argued March 25, 1892. -Decided

April 11, 1892.

A suit in a state court for partition of land cannot be removed into- the
Circuit Court of the United States under the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137,
ยง 2, by reason of a controversy between the plaintiff and a citizen of
another State, intervening and claiming.whatever may be set off to the
plaintiff.
When, on appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the United States
upon the merits, it appears that the case had been wrongfully removed
from a state court on petition of the appellant,: the decree should be
reversed for want of jurisdiction, and the case remanded to the Circuit
Court, with directions to remand it to the state -cdurt, and with costs
against him in this court and in the Circuit Court!

THIs was a bill in equity, filed August 29, 1881, in the
superior court of Cook County in the State of Illinois, by
Joseph T. Torrence against Susan M. Shedd, John B. Brown
and ninety others, for partition of a tract of land in that
county, to an undivided third of which the plaintiff claimed
title under a deed. from Edward Sorin. Brown and twenty

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

others were not served with process. Most of the other defendants appeared and answered, denying the plaintiff's title,
and claiming title in themselves to the whole in separate shares.
A decree of the superior court dismissing the bill was reversed, on appeal, by the Supreme Court of Illinois, and the
case remanded to the superior court for further proceedings.
112 Illinois, 466.
Afterwards, on May 5, 1885, Sorin was allowed, against the
plaintiff's objection, to intervene and to file an answer and
cross bill, admitting his deed to the plaintiff; but alleging
that it was only in trust for Sorin, and that the plaintiff, in
violation of. the trust, had refused to reconvey the land to
Sorin, and had agreed to convey it to Brown; and 61aiming
an equitable title in whatever should be set off to the plaintiff.
The plaintiff and Brown demurred to the cross bill; and others
of the defendants answered that bill, alleging that they were
strangers to the controversy between the plaintiff and Sorin,
and denying the title of both.
On May 18, 1885, the plaintiff and Brown filed a petition,
under the act of March 3, 1875, c.137, ยง 2, for the removal of the
case into the Circuit Court of the United States, alleging that
by reason of Sorin's intervention and appearance, answer and
cross bill, a separate controversy was presented between citizens
of different States, which could be fully determined as between
them in that court, and in which the matter in dispute exceeded $500 in value; and that at the time of filing the petition
for removal, and for five years before, the petitioners were
citizens of Illinois, and Sorin was a citizen of-indiana, and none
of the other defendants were citizens of Indiana, or had any
interest in this controversy.
The case was thereupon removed into the Circuit Court of
the United States, which sustained the demurrer to Sorin's
cross bill, and dismissed that bill, and referred the case to a
master, who filed his report on July 3, 1886.
On December 2, 1886, the plaintiff filed a stipulation
between himself and Brown and Sorin, which was as follows:
4 It is hereby stipulated between Joseph T. Torrence, complainant, and John B. Brown, one of the defendants, and

TORRENCE v. SHEDD.
Opinion of the Court.

Edward Sorin, also a defendant in the above-entitled cause,
that said Edward Sorin is entitled to a lien to the extent of
four hundred dollars per acre upon each and every acre of
land which said complainant Torrence may recover in the
above-entitled cause; and in any decree which may be entered
therein the court may recognize and declare and make all
necessary orders to enforce such lien. And the said defendant, Edward Sorin, withdraws all allegations contained in his
answer in said cause filed, and all claim that the conveyance
made by said Sorin to said Torrence, in said answer mentioned,
was executed to convey the said title to said Torrence to be
held by him in trust for said Sorin, and not as an absolhte
conveyance of said land; and, further, he withdraws and
renounces any and all claims against and upon said land, other
than for a lien to secure the purchase money of four hundred
dollars per acre for the amount of land which may be recovered by said Torrence."
On the same day, the plaintiff filed a motion to remand the
cause to the state court, on the ground that "by reason of said
stipulation there no longer exists in the said cause any controversy, separable or otherwise, as between the said complainant
and said Edward Sorin, cross complainant therein and defendant to the said original bill, and that by reason thereof this
court can no longer have any jurisdiction of said cause."
The Circuit Court denied the motion to remand, and, after
a hearing on pleadings and proofs, entered a final decree dismissing the bill. The plaintiff appealed to this court.
.Afr. Chazles X Osborn for appellant.
.A&...Frederic Ullmann and X[r. William Ritchie for appellees.
MR. JusTicE GRAY, after-stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The first question to be considered is whether the Circuit
Court of the United States rightly exercised jurisdiction to hear
and decide this case.
vo3L CXLV-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

This question depends upon the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137,
which was in force at the time of the removal into that court,
and of the refusal to remhand to the state court..
By section 2 of that act, as heretofore construed by this
court, whenever, in any suit of a civil nature in a state court,
where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value of $500,
"there shall be a controversy which is wholly between citizens
of different States, and which can be fully determined as between them," any one of those interested in that controversy
may remove the whole case into the Circuit Court of the
United States. 18 Stat. 470, 471; Barney v. Lathan, 103
U. S.205; Brooks v. Clarke, 119 U. S.502.
But in order to justify such removal, on the ground of a
separate controversy between citizens of different States, there
must, by the very terms of the statute, be a controversy
"which can be fully determined as between them;" and by
the settled construction of this section, the whole subject matter of the suit must be capable of being finally determined as
between them, and complete relief afforded as to the separate
cause of action, without the presence of others originally
made parties to the suit. Hyde v. Ruble, 104 U. S.407; Corbin v. -an Brunt, 105 U. S. 576; Fraser v. Jennison, 106
U. S.191; Winchester v. Loud, 108 U. S.130; Shainwald v.
Lewis, 108 U. S. 158; Ayres v. T-iRwall, 112 U. S. 187;
Fidelity Ins. Co. v. Huntington, 117 U. S.280; Graves v. Corbin, 132 U. S.571; Brown v. TYrousdale, 138 U. S.389.
As this court has repeatedly affirmed, not only in cases of
joint contracts, but in actions for torts, which might have
been brought against all or against any one of the defendants,
"Separate answers by the several defendants sued on joint
causes of action may present different questions for determination, but they do not necessarily divide the suit into separate
controversies. A defendant has no right to say that an action
shall be several which a plaintiff elects to make joint. A separate defence may defeat a joint recovery, but it cannot
deprive a plaintiff of his right to prosecute his own suit to
final determination in his own way. The cause of action is
the subject matter of the controversy, and that is for all the

TORRENCE v. SHEDD.
Opinion of the Court.

purposes of the suit, whatever the plaintiff declares it to be in
his pleadings." Louisville & .NashvoilleRailroadv. Ide, 114
U. S. 52, 56; Piriev. Tvedt, 115 U. S. 41, 43; Sloane v. Anderson, 11-7 U. S. 275; Little v. Giles, 118 U. S. 696, 601, 602:
Tliom Tire Hedge Co. v. Fuller,122 U. S. 635.
In Shainwald v. Lewis, above cited, which was a suit
brought by one partner for a settlement of the partnership
affairs, a judgment creditor of the defendant and a receiver
appointed in a suit upon the judgment were admitted as defendants; and it was held that there was no separable controversy between them and the plaintiff which would entitle
'them to remove the case, the court saying: "The suit was
brought to close up the affairs of an alleged partnership. The
main dispute is about the existence of the partnership. All
the other questions in the case are dependent on that. If the
partnership is established, the rights of the defendants are to
be settled in one way; if not, in another. There is no controversy in the case now which can be separated from*that
about the partnership, and fully determined by itself." 108
U. S. 161.
Accordingly, in a suit by a judgnent creditor to have the
property of his debtor sold and applied to the payment of his
debt, after satisfying prior incumbrances thereon, the holders
of which are made defendants, it has moreq.t.han once been
decided that there is no such separate confioversy between
the plaintiff and the holder of such an incumbrance, as will
justify a removal; and this for the following reasons: There
is but a single cause of action, the equitable execution of a
judgment against the property of the judgment debtor, and
this cause of action is not divisible. The judgment sought
against the incumbrancer is incidental to the main purpose of
the suit, and the fact that this incident relates to him alone
does not separate this part of the controversy from the rest
of the action. What the plaintiff wants is not partial relief,
settling his rights in the property as against- this defendant
alone, but a complete decree, which will give him a sale of
the entire property, free of all incumbrances, and a division
of the proceeds as the adjusted equities of each and all the

OCTOBER TERII, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

parties shall require. The answer of this defendant shows
the questions that wi1 arise under this branch of the one controversy, but it does not create another controversy. The
remedy which the plaintiff seeks requires the presence of all
the defendants, and the settlement, not of one only, but of
all the branches of the case. Fidelity Ins. Co. v. JHuntingto,
117 U. S. 280; Graves v. Corbin, 132 U. S. 571, 588.
The present suit was a bill for partition of lands in Illinois,
the principal object of which was to assign to all the tenants
in common their shares in severalty. By the law of Illinois,
indeed, the court might, in the suit for partition, determine all
questions of conflicting or controverted titles, to the whole
land or to any share thereof. But the determination of such
questions of title was incidental to the main object of the suit,
and in order to do complete justice between all the parties, and
avoid further litigation. Illinois Rev. Stat. (ed. 1880) c. 106,
ยง 1, 39; .lenrichsen v. Ilodgen, 67 Illinois, 179 ; -Labadiev.
.Hewitt, 85 Illinois, 341; Gage v. .ightburn, 93 Illinois, 248.
The object of the suit was not merely the establishment of
the title of the plaintiff in an undivided share of the land;
but it was the partition of the whole land, and the conversion
of his undivided share into an entire estate in a proportional
part, as well as the establishment of his title against all the
defendants. The controversy between the plaintiff and
Brown and Sorin related only to the title claimed by the plaintiff in an undivided share; Sorin's whole claim wafs of an
equitable estate in whatever should be set off to the plaintiff;
and the other defendants denied that either the plaintiff or
Brown or Sorin had any title whatever. Neither of the three,
therefore, could recover judgment setting off to him any share
in the land, without establishing a title, not only as between
themselves, but also as against all the other defendants. The
inevitable result is that the controversy of the plaintiff and
Brown with Sorin was merely incidental to the main object of
the suit, could not be determined as between them without the
presence of the other defendants, and did not constitute such a
separate controversy as would justify a removal into the Circuit Court of the United States.

. 533
5

SHA-RONT v. TUCKER.
Syllabus.

If the-controversy between the plaintiff and Brown on the
one side and Sorin on the other had been such as to justify a
removal, there can be no doubt that after that controversy had
been settled, as shown by the stipulation of the parties to it,
the suit no longer really involved a dispute or controversy
properly within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, and
should therefore have been remanded to the state court, under
section 5 of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137. 18"Stat. 472;
Robinson v. Anderson, 121 U. S. 522; Texas Thansportation
Co. v. Seeligson, 122 Ui. S. 519; Graves v. Corbin, 132 U. S.
571, 590.
But it is unnecessary to dwell upon that view of the case,
because, for the reasons above stated, the original removal on
the petition of the appellant was wrongful; and therefore the
judgment must be reversed for want of jurisdiction, with costs
against the appellant, and the case remanded to the Circuit
Court with directions to render a judgment against him for
costs in that court, and to remand the case to the state cqurt.
Mansfteld &c. Railway v. Swan, 111 IT. S. 379; Graves v. Corlin, above cited.
budgment 'reversed
accordingly.

SHARON v. TUCKER.
APPEAL

FROM THE SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 216. Argued March 15, 16, 1892.-

Decided April 11, 1892.

Adverse possessioA 6f real estatd in the District of Columbia, for the
period designated by the Statute of Limitations in force there, confers
upon the occupant a'complete title upon which he can stand as fully as
if he had always held the undisputed title of record.
A possession, to be adverse, must be open, visible, continuous and exclusive, with a claim of ownership, such as will notify parties seeking information upon the subject that the premises are not held in subordination
to any title or claim of others, but against all titles and claimants.
A person who has acquired title by adverse possession may maintain a bill

