ROBERTS v. LEWIS.
Statement of the Case.

the State, based upon the judgment in the Sage case, held
that the fundability of the bonds in this suit was settled by
the decision in that case, which is practically applying that
doctrine. The transcript of the judgment presented to us,
which contains the proceedings of the court below, does not
present any Federal question which authorizes us to review
the decision of the state court. Whether or not the adjudication upon the first bonds of the same series could be pleaded
as an estoppel to the proceeding for the fundability of other
bonds of the same series, is not a Federal question. Nor does
the ruling of the court upon the validity of the bonds present
any questiQn under Federal law, blit solely a question upon
the construction of a statute of the State, and whether an
exchange of the bonds for merchandise was a sale within its
meaning. The writ of error must therefore be
Jiomised.

ROBERTS v. LEWIS.
ERROR To THE

couRlT OF THE UNITED S
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.

.oRourr

sTATE
FOR THE

No. 285. Argued April 12, 182,-Decided April 25, 1892.
Under Rev. Stat. § 914, and according to the Code of Civil Procedure of the
State of Nebraska, if the petition, in an action at law in the Circuit
Court of the United States held within that State, alleges the requisite
citizenship of the parties, and the answer denies each and every allegation in the petition, such citizenship is put in issue, and, if no proof or
finding thereof appears of record, the judgment must be reversed for
want of jurisdiction.

IN this action, brought June 11, 1887, by Lewis against
Roberts in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of 1Nebraska, the petition was as follows:
"Comes- now the said plaintiff and shows and represents
unto this honorable court that he is -a resident of the city of
Milwaukee in the State of Wisconsin, and a citizen of the said
State of Wisconsin, and that the defendant is a resident of the

654

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

city of Lincoln in the State of Nebraska, and-a citizen of the
said State of Nebraska, and that the matters and things herein
in controversy exceed the sum and value of two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest and-costs.
"2d. The plaintiff further complains of the defendant, for
that plaintiff has a legal estate in and is entitled to the immediate possession of the following described property, to wit:
lots number one, two, three, four, five and six, all in block
number forty-one, in Dawson's addition to South.. Lincoln, in
Lancaster County, Nebraska, and that said defendant has ever
since the 11th day 'of April, 1887, unlawfully" kept and still
keeps the plaintiff out of possession thereof.
"Wherefore the plaintiff prays that he may have judgment
for the delivery of the possession of said premises to him, and
for the costs of this action."
The defendant filed the following amended answer:
"1. The above named defendant, for an amended ansver to
the plaintiff's petition, says that for more than ten years prior
to the commencement of this action he had been and still is in
the open, adverse possession of the premises in controversy.
"2. Defendant, further answering, denies*each and every
allegation in said petition contained."
.The parties stipulated in writing that the value of the
premises in controversy exceeded $5000; and the case was
tried by a jury, who, by direction of the court, returned a
special, verdict, finding the following facts:
Jacob Dawson died seized in fee of the premises, leaving a
widow and five children; and by his last will, dated May 10,
1869, and duly admitted to probate in Lancaster County,
Nebraska, made the following devise and bequest: "To my
beloved wife, Editha J. Dawson, I give and bequeath all my
estate, real and personal, of which I may die seized, the same
to be and remain hers, with full power, rights and authority to
dispose of the same as to her shall seem meet .and proper so
long as she shall, remain my widow, upon the express condition, however, that if she should marry again, then it is my
will that all of the estate herein bequeathed, or whatever may
remain, shall go to my surviving children, share and share

ROBERTS v.- LEWIS.
Opinion of the Court.

alike."

On December 14, 1879, Editha J. Dawson married

Henry M. Pickering.

The premises were conveyed on March

15, 1870, by warranty deed by Editha J.Dawson to one Eng-,
land, and by him on December 15, 1871, to the defendant, who
has ever since been in the peaceful occupation and control of
the same. The premises were conveyed on September 15,
1879, by warranty deed by Jac6b Dawson's children to Wheeler
and Burr, by them on April 27, 1880, to Ezekiel Giles, and by
him in May, 1887, to the plaintiff.,
The jury found that, if the court should be of opinion that
under the will Editha J. Dawson took only an estate determinable upon her marriage, then the plaintiff at the commencement of the action was seized in fee of the premises, and entitled
to the immediate possession thereof, and should recover of the
defendant nominal damage ; but, if the court should be of
opinion that under the will Editha J. Dawson took an estate
absolutely in fee, then they found for the defendant.
The Circuit Court gave judgifent for the plaintiff upon
the special verdict; and the defendant sued out this writ of
error.
X&. oi&. H. Ames (with whom was Xr. -Y S. Harwood
on the brief) for plaintiff in'error.
Air. I..
Burr (with whom was X.Ar. .. Y. Woolworth on
th6 brief) for defendant in error.
Counsel'discussed fully the other questions of laiv involved
in the case, but to the point aa to jurisdiction only said in
their brief that, no'plea to it having been interposed, it was
not necessary for the jury to find the citizenship of the
parties.
Mm. JUSTIcE. GRAY, after stating the case- as, above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The principal ,question argued in this, case is upon the true
construction of the devise of Jacob Dawson to his wife, in
view of the conflicting decisions of this court and of the Su-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

preme Court of Nebraska. Giles v. Little, 104 U. S. 291;
Little v. Giles, 25 Nebraska, 313. See also Little v. Giles,
118 U. S. 596; Giles v. Little, 134 U. S.645.
But a preliminary question to be decided is whether the
Circuit Court of the United States appears upon this record
to have had any jurisdiction of the case.
The petition or declaration alleges in due form that the
plaintiff is a citizen of the State of Wisconsin, and the defendant is a citizen .of the State of Nebraska; and further alleges
that the plaintiff has a legal estate in and is entitled to the
immediate possession of certain lots in Lancaster County in
the State of Nebraska, and the defendant has kept and still
keeps the plaintiff out of possession thereof; wherefore the
plaintiff prays for judgment for delivery of possession of the
premises to him. The answer sets up two defences: 1st.
Open and adverse possession of the premises by the defendant
for ten years; 2d. A general denial of each and every allegation in the petition. The special verdict finds facts bearing
on the merits of the case, but nothing as to the citizenship of
the parties.
Whenever the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United
States depends upon the citizenship. of the parties, it has been
held fromthe beginning that the requisite citizenship should
be alleged bythe plaintiff, and must appear of record: and
that when it does -not so appear this court, on writ of error,
must reverse the judgment, for want of jurisdiction in the
Circuit Court. Brown v. -Keene, 8 Pet. 112; Continental Ins.
Co. v. Rlhoads, 119r U. S. 237.
Doubtless, so.long as the rules of pleading in the courts of
the United States remained as at common law, the requisite
citizenship of the parties, if duly alleged or apparent in the
declaration, could not be denied by the defendant, except by
plea in abatement, and was admitted by pleading to the merits
of the action. Sheppard v. Graves, 14 How. 505.
But since 1872, when Congress assimilated the rules of
pleading, practice and forms and modes of procedure in
actions at law in .the" courts of. the United States to those
prevailing-in the courts of the several States, all defences are

ROBERTS

.

LEWIS.

Opinion of the Court.

open to a defendant in the Circuit Court of the United States,
under any form of plea,. answer or demurrer, which would
have been open to him under like pleading in .the courts of
the State within which the Circuit Court is held. Act of June
1, 1872, c. 255, § 5; 17 Stat. 197; 1Rev. Stat. § 914; qhemung
Canal Bank v. Lowery, 93 U. S. 72;. Glenn v. Sumner, 132,
U. S. 152; Central Transoortation Co. v. Pullman's Car Co.,
139 U. S. 24, 39, 40.
By the Nebraska -Code of Civil Procedure, .9 62, every civil
action is commenced by petition; and by § 92, the petition
must contain "the name of the court and county in which the
action is brought, and the names of the parties, plaintiff and
defendant," "a statement of the facts constituting the cause
of action," and "a demand of the relief to which the party
supposes himself entitled," By § 94:, 'the defendant may
demur to the petition for certain matters appearing on its
face, among which are "that the court has no jurisdiction of
the person of the defendant, or the subject of the action," and
"that the petition does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of. action ;" and by § 95, the demurrer must specify
the groundg of objection, or else be regarded as limited to the
latter ground only. By § 96, "when any of the defects enumerated in § 94 do not appear upon the face of the petition,
the objection may be taken by answer'," and in every case,
by § 99, the answer must contain "a general or specific deniAl
of each material allegation of the petition controverted by the
defendant," and "a statement of any new matter constituting
a defence."
Under this code, as under the code of New York, upon
which it was modelled, the answer takes the place of all pleas
at common law, whether general or special, in abatement or
to the merits; and a positive denial in the answer of "each
and every allegation in the petition" puts in issue every material allegation therein, as fully as if it had been specifically
and separately denied. Sweet v. Tuttle, 14 N. Y. 465; Gardner v. Cla47t, 21 R. Y. 399; Donovan v. Fowler,17 Nebraska,
247; Hassett v. Curtis,20 Nebraska, 162; Iaxwell's Practice
(4th ed.) 127, 128; Bliss on Code Pleading (2d ed.) § 345.
VOL. cxL--42

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

And by the express terms of §§ 94, 96, above cited, an objection that the court has no jurisdiction, either of the person of
the defendant or of the subject of the action, may be taken
by demurrer, if it appears on the face of the petition, and by
answer, if it does not so appear.
The necessary qonsequence is that the allegation of the
citizenship of the parties, being a material allegation properly
made in the petition, was put in issue by the answer, and, like
other affirmative and material allegations made by the plaintiff and denied by the defendant, must be proved by the'
plaintiff. The record showing no proof or finding upon this
essential point, on which the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
depended, the judgment must be reversed, with costs, for
want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, and the case remanded to that court, which may, in its discretion, either
dismiss the action for want of jurisdiction, or set aside the
verdict and permit the plaintiff to offer evidence of the citizenship of the parties. Continetal Ins. Co. v. R/hoads, 119
U. S. 237.
Judgment 'reversed,and case remanded to the Circuit Court
for further proceedingsin accordancewith the opinion of
this court.

KENDALL -v. SAN JUAN SILVER MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 294.

Submitted April 13, 1892. -Decided

April 25, 1892.

Intrusion upon and location of a mining claim within the territory set apart
by the treaty proclaimed November 4, 1868, for the exclusive use and
occupancy of the confederated bands of Ute Indians, was forbidden
thereby, and was inoperative to confer any rights upon the plaintiffs.
Location of the same premises by others after extinguishment of the
Indian title, and prior to relocation of the former prohibited claim, gave
the right of possession.
The failure of the plaintiffs to record their location after extinguishment of
such Indian title within the period prescribed by the laws of Colorado,

