OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

and been reached for argument and submitted upon a brief
filed for plaintiff in error. It is now too late to assert jurisdiction over defendants in error, and the writ of error must
therefore be dismissed.
We should add that the same result would follow if the citation had been duly served, as the record presents no Federal
question upon which to maintain our jurisdiction.. The decision of the Supreme Court of California that, as no appeal was
prosecuted from the final judgments, the order denying the
application to remove was not open to review, and its judgment thereupon dismissing the appeal from the orders refusing
to set aside the judgments of the court below rest upon grounds
of state procedure with which it is not our province to interMrit of emor dismissed.
fere.

HALEY v. BREEZE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 211.

Submitted March 15, 1892. -Decided March 21, 1892.

This writ of error is dismissed because the record presents no Federal question properly raised, jnd because the judgment of the state court rests
upon an independent ground, broad enough tb maintain it, and involving
no Federal question.

THE. plaintiff in error, as plaintiff below, filed a bill in a
District Court in a county in Colorado, to resttain the collection of taxes which had been assessed against him. An injunotion being refused, he filed a second bill, in another court in
another county, seeking the same remedy. An injunction
being issued there, the cause was taken to the Supreme Court
of the State, where the decree was reversed and the injunction
dissolved. The following extracts from the opinion of the
court, found in the record, show the grounds upon which that
decree, to which this writ of error was sued out, rested.
"The record discloses that the appellee, Haley, has instituted

HALEY v. BREEZE.
Statement of the Case.

and prosecuted two injunction suits against the appellant for
the accomplishment of the same purpose, to wit: to prevent
him from enforcing, as county treasurer of Routt County, the
collection of taxes assessed against the personal property of
the appellee therein for the year 1884 by distraint and sale of
a portion of the same. The first suit was brought and prosecuted in the District Court of Clear Creek County and the
present action in the District Court of Pitkin County. The
complaint in the former case stated substantially the same
grounds for enjoining the collection of these taxes as that filed
in the latter case, the principal ground being the invalidity of
the assessment. Additional grounds for equitable relief are
alleged in the present complaint, but they all existed at the
time of the former action, and it is not even alleged that they
were unknown to t' e appellee at the time the original suit was
pending.
"The doctrine of the authorities is that, when a complainant
in equity brings his suit, he must present to the court all the
grounds then existing for its support. He is not at liberty to
present a portion of the grounds upon which his claim for
equitable relief depends in one suit and, if that fail, to present
the rest in another action. The former adjudication is held
to be conclusive in a subsequent proceeding between the
same parties as to every matter properly involved and which
might have been raised and determined in it. 1?egger v.
hidianapoli cf St. -Louis Railroad, 103 Illinois, 449, 456;
Eurtz v. Carr, 165 Indiana, 57; Stark v. Starr, 94 U. S.
477.
"A copy of the complaint filed by said Haley in the former
suit" was set out in the answer in this cause, showing the
identity of the causes of action, of the relief sought, of the
parties, and that they prosecuted and defended in the same
character; and it is therein averred that this court, by its
opinion and judgment of April 30th, 1887, pronounced in that
case, held. the said assessment to be valid, and that the injunbtion proceedings could not be maintained, which former adjudication is alleged to be a complete bar to the present action.
This answer stands untraversed; and the fact, therefore, of a

OCTOBER TER~f, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

former adjudication of the same subject matter between the
same parties is decisive not only of this appeal, but of this
action. It appears from the record that there was a full and
complete adjudication in the original suit of the validity of
these taxes, and that the authority of the appellant, as treasurer of IRoutt County, to enforce their collection was therein
.sustained. There was, therefore, no warrant of law for
granting this second injunction to restrain him from the performance of that duty."
And in denying a petition for a rehearing the court said:
"The grounds of the decision rendered in April are plain and
simple and cannot be questioned. The plaintiff failed to
return to the assessor a list of his taxable property as required
by statute, and his property was listed by the assessor as was
his duty under the statute. If he was assessed too high or for
too much property it was his duty to apply to the board of
equalization for correction of these errors, which. he failed to
do either of his own accord or at the repeated solicitation of
the board of county commissioners. Having neglected all the
means and modes provided by the statutes for the correction
of errors in his assessment, he cannot correct them by an
appeal to the chancery jurisdiction of-the courts; and to these
plain propositions the opinion cites abundant and well-considered authorities."
The counsel for defendant in error moved to dismiss the
writ of error on the ground that "This cause and the matters
and things therein involved no questions under the Constitution or laws of the United States of America."
21r. Daniel E. Parks for the motion.
-IM. T.'T.Hfughes opposing.
tHE CHIEF JUSTIcE:

The writ of error is dismissed because

the record presents no Federal question properly raised, and
the. jiqdgment of the Supreme Court of the State proceeded
upon an independdiA gitound not involving a Federal question
and broad enough to maintain the judgment.

