LAU OW BEW v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Missouri, 384, 388, 389. See also Howell v.
afglksdorf; 33
Kansas, 194.
The cases in which judgments against a territorial and
municipal corporation have been enforced against its inhabitants, either by direct levy of execution on their property,
according to common law or ancient usage, as in New England, or by mandamus to levy a tax to pay the judgment, pursuant to express statute,- as in Missouri, have no bearing upon
this case.

BloomftWd v.

Charter Oak BWzk, 121-U. S. 121,

129, and cases cited; State v. Rainey, 74 Missouri, 229.

~Tudgment a~ffirmed.

LAU OW BEW.v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF, APPEALS FOR THE
IINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 1458. Argued January 14,1892.-

Decided Warch 14, 1892.

By section 6 of the act of March 3, 1891, establishing Circuit Courts of
Appeals, 26 Stat. 828, c. 517, the appellate jurisdiction not yested-in this
court was vested in the court created by that act, and the entire jurisdiction was distributed.
The words "unless otherwise provided by law," in the clause in that section
which provid.$ that the CircuitCourts shall exercise appellate'jurisditlon
"in all cases other than those provided for in the preceding section of
this act, unless otherwise provided by law" were inserted in order to
guard against implied repeals, and are not to be construed as referring
I
to prior laws only.
It is competent for this cougt by certiorari to direct any case to be certified
by the Circuit Courts-of Appeals, whether its advice is requested or not,except those which may be brought here by appeal or writ of error.
Section 6 of the Chinese Restriction act of May 6, 1882, 22 Stat. 58, c. 126,
as amended by the act of July 5, 1884,23 Stat. 115, c. 220, does not apply
to Chinese merchants, already domiciled in the United States, who, having
left the country for temporary purposes, animo xevertendi, seek to reenter it on their return to their business and their homes.

THs is a writ of certiorari for the review of a judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appe als for the Ninth Circuit, affirming
the judgment of the Circuit Court of the Inited States for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Northern District of California, in a case of habeas corpus,
which determined that Lau Ow Bew, the appellant, is a
Chinese person forlidden by law to land within the United
States, and he no right to be or remain therein, and ordered
that he be deported out ' of the country, and transported to
the port in China whence he came.
The proceedings in the Circuit Court are set out in the
application for the certiorari, as reported in 141 U. S. 583.
The case was heard and determined in that court upon an
agreed statement of facts, as follows:
"It is hereby stipulated and agreed that the following are
the facts herein:
"1st. That the said Lau Ow Bew is now on board the SS.
Oceanic, which arrived in the port of San Francisco, State of
California, on the 11th day of August, A.D. 1891, from Hong
Kong, and is detained and confined thereon by Captain Smith,
th master thereof.
"2d. That the said passenger is now and for seventeen
years last past has been a resident of the United States and
domiciled therein.
"3d. That during all of said time the said passenger has
been engaged in the wholesale and importing mercantile business in the city of Portland, State of Oregon, under the firm
name and style of Hop Chong & Co.
"14th. That said firm is worth $40,000, and said passenger
has a one-fourth interest therein, in addition to other properties.
1"5th. That said firm does a business annually of $100,000,
and pays annually to the United States government large
sums of money, amounting to many thousands of dollars, as
duties upon imports.
"6th. That on the 30th day of September, A.D. 1890, the
said passenger departed from this country temporarily on a
visit to his relatives in China, with the intention of returning
as soon as possible to this country, and returned to this country by the steamship Oceanic on the 11th day of August, A.D.
1891.
"7th. That at the time of his departure he procured satis-

LAU OW BEW v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

factory evidence of his status in this country as a merchant,
and on his return hereto he presented said proofs to the collector of the port of San Francisco, but said collector, while
acknowledginig the sufficiency of said proofs and admitting
that the said passenger was a merchant domiciled herein,
refused to permit the said passenger, to land on the sole
ground that the said passenger failed and neglected to produce the certificate of the Chinese government mentioned in.
section 6 of the Chinese Restrictioi Act of May 6, 1882, as
amended by the act of July 5, 1$8."
The Circuit Court rendered judgment September 14, 1891,
(47 Fed. Rep. 578,) which, the case having been carried by
appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit,
was on the 7th day of October, 1891, affirmed. (47 Fed. Rep.
641.)
On November 16, 1891, this court, upon the application of
appellant, ordered that a writ of certiorari issue t. the Circuit Court of Appeals requiring it to certify the case up for
review and determination, under section six of the act to'
establish Circuit Courts of Appeals, approved March 3,-1891.
(26 Stat. 826, 828, c. 517.)
The fifth article of the treaty concluded July 28, 1868,
between the United States and China, known as the "Bur-.
lingame Treaty," (16 Stat. 739,) declares that:
"The United States of America and the Emperor of China
cordially recognize the inherent and inalienable right of man
to change his home and allegiance, and also the mutual
advantage of the free migration and emigration of their
citizens ad subjects, respectively, from the one country to
the other, for purposes of curiosity, of trade, or as permanent
residents."
Article VI of that treaty is as follows:
"Citizens of the United States visiting or residing in China
shall enjoy the same privileges, immunities, or exemptions in
respect to travel or residence as may there be enjoyed by
the citizens or subjdbts, of the most favored natioi -Anid,
reciprocally, Chinese subjects visiting or residing in the United
States,- shall enjoy the same privileges, immunities, and exVOL. CXLIV-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

emptions in respect- to travel or residence, as may tlaere be
enjoyed by the citizens or subjects of the most favored nation.
But nothing herein contained shall be held to confer naturalization upon citizens of the United States in China, nor upon
the subjects of China in the United States."
A supplementary treaty was concluded November 17, 1880,
(22 Stat. 826,) which reciteg, among other things, in its preamble that, "whereas the Government of the United States,
because of the constantly increasing immigration of Chinese
laborers to the territory of the United States, and the embarrassments consequent upon such immigration, now desires to
negotiate a modification of the existing treaties which shall
not be in direct contravention of their spirit;" and articles I
and II of which are as follows:
"Whenever in the opinion of the Government of the United
States, the coming of Chinese laborers to the United States,
or their residence therein, affects or threatens to affect the
interests of that country, or to endanger the good order of
the said country or of any locality within the territory thereof, the Government of China agrees that the Government
of the -United States may regulate, limit or suspend -such
coming or residence, but may not absolutely prohibit it. The
limitation or suspension shall be reasonable and shall apply
only to Chinese who may go to the United States as laborers,
other classes not being included in the limitations. Legislation taken in regard to Chinese laborers will be of such a
character only as is necessary to enforce the regulation, limitation or suspension of immigration, and immigrants shall not
be subject to personal maltreatment or abuse.
"Chinese subjects, whether proceeding to the United States
as teachers, students, merchants or from curiosity, together
with their body and household servants, and Chinese laborers
who are now in the United States shall be allowed to go and
come of their own free will and accord, and shall be accorded
all the rights, privileges, immunities and exemptions which
are accorded to the citizens and subjects of the most favored
nation."
The sixth section of the act of May 6, 1882, entitled "An

LAU OW" BEW b.- UNITED STATES,
Statement of the Case.

act to execute certain treaty stipulations relating to Chinese,"
(22 Stat. 58, c. 126;) as amended by the act of July 5, 1884,
(23 Stat. 115, c. 220,) the matter inserted in amendment being
italicized, and the matter stricken out being in brackets, reads
.as follows:
"SEc. 6. That in order to the faithful execution of [articles
one and two of the treaty in] the provisions of this act [before
mentioned,] every Chinese person, other than a laborer, who
may be entitled by said treaty [and] or this act to come
within the United States, and who shall be about to come to
the United States, shall obtain thepermission of and be identified as so entitled by the Chinese government, or of such
other foreign government of which at the time such Chinese
person shall be a subject, in each case [such identity] to be
evidenced by a certificate issued [under the authority of said]
by such government, which certificate shall be in the English
language [or (if not in the English language) accompanied by
a translation into English, stating such right to come] and
shall show such permission, with the 'name of the permitted
person in his or her proper signature, and which certificate
shall state the individual,family, and tribal name in full,
title or official rank, if any, the age, height, and all physical
peculiarities, former and present occupation or profession,
when and where and hoio long pursued, and place of residence
[in China] of the person*to whom the certificate is issued, and
that such person is entitled [conformably to the treaty in]
by this act [mentioned] to come within the United States.
If the'person so applyingfor a certificate shall be a merchant,
said certificate shall, in addition to above requirements, state
the nature, characterand estimated value of the business carried on by him prior to and at the time of his application as
aforesaid: Provided, That nothing in- this -aet nor in said
treaty shall be construed as embracing within the meaning of
.the word 'merchant' hucksters, peddlers or those engaged in
taking, drying or otherwise preserving shell or other ftsh for
home consumption or exportation. If the certificate be sought
for the purpose of travelfor curiosity, it shall also state whether
the applicant intends to pass through or travel within the

OCTOBER TERM:, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

United States, together with his financial standing in the country from which 'such certificate is desired. The certificate provided for in.this act, and the identity- of the person named
therein shall, before such jperson goes on board any vessel to
proceed to the United States, be vised by the indorsement of
the diplomatic representatives qf the United States in the foreign countryfrom which said certificate issues, or of the consular representative of the United States at the port or place
from which the person named in; the "ertiflcate is about to
depart; and such diplomatic representativeor consular representative whose indorsement is so required is hereby empowered,
and it shall be his duty, before indorsing such certificate as
aforesaid,to examine into the truth of the statements set forth
in said certificate, and if he shallfind 'upon examination that
said or any of the statements therein contained are untrue
it shall be his duty to refuse to indorse the same. Such certificate vised as aforesaid shall be prima facie evidence of the
fact set forth therein, and shall be produced to the collector
of customs [or his deputy] of the port in the district in the
United States at which the person named therein shall arrive,
and afterward_produced to theproper authoritiesof the United
States whenever lawfully demanded, and shall be the sole
evidence permissible on the part of the person so producing the same to establish a right of entry into the. United
States; but said certificate may be controverted and thefacts
therein.stated.disproved by the United States authorities."
On the third of July, 1890, the Treasury Department issued
certain -instructions regarding 'the reentry into the United
States of Chinese persons after a visit to China, one of which
is as follows:
"Chinamen who are not laborers, and who may have heretofore resided in the United States, are not prevented by
existing law o& treaty from returning to the United States
after visiting China or elsewhere. No certificates or other
papers, however, are issued by the department, or by any of
its subordinate oThcers, to show that they are entitled to land
in the United States, but it is suggested that such persons
should, before leaving the United States, provide themselves

LAU OW BEW v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellee.

with such proofs of identity as may be deemed proper showing that they have been residents of the United States, and
that they are not laborers, so that they can present the same
to and be identified by, the collector of customs at the port
where they may return." Syn. Treas. Dec. 1890, 253, 251.
Mr1&. J

Hufubey Ashton for appellant.

3fr. Thomas -D.

Riordan was with him on the brief.
.7ft.. Assistant Attorney General Parkerfor'appellee.
The petitioner left the United States September 30, 1890,
and came into the port of San Francisco August 11, 1891,
having been out of the United States more than ten months.
During this time he was living in the country of his birth and
had resumed his domicil there, and had thu's voluntarily placed
himself within the operation of the statutes of the United
States, excluding Chinese immigrants.
Immediately before going on board the Oceanic at Hong
Kong to return to the United States, he was a ",Chinese person, other than a laborer," and was entitled by the terms of
the treaty "to come within the United States." So far as his
purpose or intent could control, he was " about to come to the
United States "1from China. But be could come only inaccord
with our laws. Therefore, it was necessary, under the terms
of the amehaded act, that he should, before going on -board,
"obtain the permission of and be identified as so entitled by
the Chinese government . . . to be evidenced by a certificate, issued by such government"
It is provided that the certificate shall be in the English
language, shall show such permission, the name of the permitted person in his or her proper signature; the-name, family,
title and rank; the physical description, the former and present occupation or profession, and when, where and how long
pursued, and the place of residence of the person to whom the.
certificate is issued, "1und that he is entitled by this act to
come within the United States." And it is enacted that this
certificate "shall be the sole evidence permissible on the part

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellee.

of the person so producing the same to establish a right of
entry into the United States." But it is argued that Congress
did not intend this act to apply to Chinese persons that had
been doing business in the United States. It is submitted
that the phraseology of the act controverts this argument.
The general phrase is plain, and its scope is indicated by the
expressed exception.
The act applies in terms to "every Chinese person" "other
than a laborer," except those protected by the thirteenth section. An exception that recognizes the breadth of the general
application is the exception as to diplomatic and other officers
and their servants mentioned in section 13 of the act. These
exceptions indicate that outside of them the words. "every
Chinese person" were used without a restriction, and that,
subject to these exceptions, the requirements of the act apply
to all Chinese persons.
This broad construction seems to be recognized by the
phraseology of the first clause of section 15, which says, "that
the provisions of this act shall apply to all subjects of China
and Chinese, whether subjects of China or any other foreign
power." The act applies in specific terms to "every Chinese
person" not a Chinese laborer, or a diplomatic or other officer,
or a servant of such officials. It cannot be claimed that
subjects of the Emperor of China engaged in trade in this
country are not " Chinese persons."
It is part of the case that Lau Ow Bew is not a Chinese
laborer, a Government officer, or the servant of an official.
It therefore appears plainly that- he is one of the class that
the law of the United States declares shall obtain and produce the certificate required by and described in section 6.
No better check to the laborer who seeks to come as a merchant, and who is ready to make his.way by perjury, could
be devised than to require the Chinese government to certify,
in addition to the-other facts required, "the nature, character,
and estimated value of the business carried on by him prior to
and at the time of his application."
In a case like that of Lau Ow Bew some hardship may
arise from the law. In a case like that of ran, iShdng, 140

LAU OW BEW v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 424, the fraud would be exposed and defeated at the
port of shipment. It is therefore not unnatural that Congress
should require of a person in China who claims to be engaged
in trade in the United States, that he shall be identified and
shown to be such by the Chinese government.
The whole scheme of section 6 is one to stop and turn back
the multitude of Chinese laborers who pay no respect to
our wishes or our laws, and who are prompt to employ-fraud
and perjury in order to place themselves in the ranks of competition in our labor markets. It does not prevent the coming of merchants or other entitled persons who have never
been here. Neither does it preclude the return of merchants or
other entitled persons domiciled here, or who have resided here.
Congress seeks by this section to execute the protective
clauses of the treaty of 1880, which authorize the United
States to restrict the coming of Chinese laborers. This legislation -places suc]h safeguards about the coming of all Chinese
persons, not connected with diplomatic or official service, as
experience has shown to be necessary to prevent the unlawful
entry of large numbers of Chinese laborers. This Congress
had the right to do, and having the right and power so to do,
it was clothed with the right and power to determine the
means that should be used'to accomplish the result sought.
MR. CHIEF
court:

JUsTiCE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

Before proceeding to dispose of this case upon the merits
the question of jurisdiction, although not argued by counsel,
must receive attention.
The act of Congress of March 3, 1891, establishing Circuit
Courts of Appeals and defining and regulating the jurisdiction
of the cours of the United States, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517, was
passed to facilitate the prompt disposition of cases in this
court and to relieve it frdm the oppressive burden of general
litigation, which impeded ihe examination of cases of public
concern, and operated to the delay of - suitors. In re TFood&,
143 U. S.202.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

By section 4, "the review, by appeal, by writ of error, or
otherwise, from the existing Circuit Courts shall be had only
in the Supreme Court of the United States or in the Circuit
Courts of Appeals hereby established according to the provisions of this act regulating the same."
By section 14, section 691 of the Revised Statutes, and section 3 of the act of February 16, 1875, c. 77, 18 Stat. c. 77,
pp. 315, 316, and "all acts and parts of acts relating to
appeals or writs of error inconsistent with the provisions for
review by appeals or writs of error in the preceding sections
five and six of this act," were repealed.
Under section 5, appeals or writs of error may be taken
from the Circuit Courts directly to this court in six specified
classes of cases, namely:
" [1] In any case in which the jurisdiction of the court is in
issue; in such cases the question of jurisdiction alone shall be
certified to the Supreme Court from the court below for
decision. [2] From the final sentences and decrees in prize
causes. [3] In cases of conviction of a capital or otherwise
infamous crime. [4] In any case that involves the construction or application of the Ccnstitution of the United States.
[5] In any case in which the constitutionality of any law of
the United States, or the validity or constriction of any
treaty made under its authority, is drawn in question. [6] In
any case in which the constitution or law of a State is claimed
to be in contravention of the Constitution of the United
States."
By section 6, the Circuit Courts of Appeals "shall exercise
appellate jurisdiction to review by appeal or by writ of
error," final decisions of the Circuit Courts "in all cases other
than those provided for in the preceding section of this act,
unless otherwise provided by law." The appellate jurisdiction not vested in this court was thus vested in the court
created by the act, and the entire jurisdiction distributed.
.McLish v. Roff, 141 U. S. 661; 666.
The words "unless otherwise provided by law" were manifestly inserted out of abundant caution, in order that any
qualification of the jurisdiction by contemporaneous or subse-

LAU OW BEW v. UIITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

quent acts should not be construed as taking it away except
when expressly so provided. Implied repeals were intended
to be thereby guarded against. To hold that the words
referred to prior laws would defeat the purpose of the act
and be inconsistent with its context and its repealing clause.
The section then provides that "the judgments or decrees
of the Circuit Courts of Appeals shall be final in all cases in
which the jurisdiction is dependent entirely upon the opposite
parties to the suit or controversy, being aliens and citizens of
the United States or citizens of different States; also in all
cases arising under the patent laws, under the revenue laws,
and under the criminal laws and in admiralty cases, excepting
that in every such subject within its appellate jurisdiction the
Circuit Court of Appeals at any time may certify to the
Supreme Court of the United States any questions or propositions of law concerning which it desires the instruction of
that court for its proper decision. And thereupon the Supreme
Court may either give its instructions on the questions and
propositions certified to it, which shall be binding upon the
Circuit Courts of Appeals in such case, or it may require that
the whole record and cause may be sent up to it for its consideration, and thereupon shall decide the whole matter in
controversy in the same manner as if it had been brought
there for review by writ of error or appeal. And excepting
also that in any such case as is hereinbefore made final
in the Circuit Court of Appeals it shall be competent for the
Supreme Court to require, by certiorari or otherwise, any such
case to be certified" for its determination as if brought up by
appeal or writ of error. "In all cases not hereinbefore, in
this section, made final there shall be of right an appeal or
writ of error or review of the case by the Supreme Court of
the United States where the matter in controversy shall'
exceed one thousand dollars besides costs."
By this section judgments or decrees in the enumerated
classes of cases are made final in terms by way of the exclusion of any review by writ of error or appeal, while as to cases
not expressly made final by the section, appeal or writ of error
may be had of right, where the money value of the matter in
controversy exceeds one thousand dollars besides costs.

OCTOBER TERM,. 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The case before us is one of habeas corpus. The jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court was not in issue, nor was the construction
or application of the Constitution of the United States involved, nor the constitutionality of any law of the United
States, or the validity or construction of any treaty made
under its authority, drawn in question. It did not fall within
either of the classes of cases which may be brought directly to
this court under the act, and was, therefore, properly carried
to the Circuit Court of Appeals. And as a case of habeas
carpus is not one in which the matter in controversy involves
a money value, no appeal lies from that court under section
six. ffurtz v. 3fofltt, 115 U. S. 487. But as the decree is
"made final" by the effect of the section in giving the Circuit
Courts of Appeals jurisdiction over that class of cases, we are
of opinion that it is reviewable upon certiorari, and that this
writ was providently issued.
In every case within its appellate jurisdiction, the Circuit
Court of Appeals may certify to this court any questions or
propositions of law in respect of which it desires instruction,
and this court may then require the whole record and cause
to be sent up; and so it is competent for this court by certiorari to direct any case to be certified, whether its advice is requested or not, except those which may be brought here by
appeal or writ of error, and the latter are specified as those
where the money value exceeds a certain amount, and which
have not been made final "in this section," that is, made final
in terms. And as certiorari will only be issued where questions of gravity and importance are involved or in the interest
of uniformity of decision, the object of the act is thereby attained.
We are brought, therefore, to the consideration of the questions arising upon the record. Lau Ow Bew came to the
United States in 1874, and has been for seventeen years a resident thereof and domiciled therein, and during that pferiod has
carried on a wholesale and importing mercantile business in
the city of Portland, Oregon. On September 30, 1890, he
went to China for the purpose of visiting his relatives and with
the intention of returning as soon as possible, having pre-

LAU OW BEW v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

viously procured the proper evidence of his status in this coun-.
try as a merchant, in accordance with the regulations of the
Treasury Department of July 3, 1890. He took passage for
home at Hiong Kong on the Oceanic, which reached San Francisco on August 11, 1891. Although it was admitted by the
collector that appellant was a merchant domiciled in the
United States, and the sufficiency of his proofs of identity was
acknowledged, yet the collector refused to permit him to land
on the sole ground that he failed and neglected to produce the
certificate of the Chinese government mentioned in section six
of the Chinese Restriction Act of May 6, 1882, as amended by
theact of July 5, 1884.
Does the section apply to Chinese merchants, already domiciled in the United States, who, having left the country for
temporary purposes, animo revertendi, seek to re~nter it on
their return to their business and their homes?
Nothing is better settled than that statutes should receive a
sensible construction, such as will effectuate the legislative intention, and, if possible, so as to avoid an. unjust or an absurd
conclusion. Church of the Holy Trinity v. United States, 143
U. S. 457; llenderson v. 3layor of New York, 92 U. S. 259;
United States v. Kirby, 7 Wall. 482; Oates v. National Bank,
100 U. S.239.
In the case of Low Yamr Chow, 13 Fed. Rep. 605, 609, it
was held by the Circuit Court for the District of California,
September 5, 1882, that Chinese merchants who resided, at
the time of the passage of the act of Congress of May 6, 1882,
in other countries than China, on arriving in a port of the
United States, were not required by that act to produce certificates of the Chinese government establishing their character
as. merchants, as a condition of their being allowed to land,
but that.their character as such merchants could be established
by parol evidence. And Mr. Justice Field, delivering the
opinion of the court, referring to the sixth section of the act,
said: "The certificate mentioned-in this section is evidently
designed to facilitate proof by Chinese other than laborers,
coming from China and d6siring to enter the United States,
that they are not within the prohibited class. It is not re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

quired as a means of restricting their coming. To hold that
such was its object would be to impute to Congress a purpose
to disregard the stipulation of the second article of the new
treaty, that they should be ' allowed to go and come of their
,own free will and accord.'"
And Judge Deady, in the District Court for the District of
Oregon, held, January 15, 1883, that the certificate provided
for in section six was not the only competent evidence that a
Chinese person is not a laborer, and, therefore, entitled to come
to and reside within the United States, but that the fact might
be shown by any other pertinent and convincing testimony.
In re Ho Eing, 14 Fed. Rep. 724.
The amendatory act of July 5, 1884, enlarged the terms of
the certificate, and provided that it should be the sole evidence
permissible on the part of the person producing the same to
establish a right of entry into the United States. This rule
of evidence was evidently prescribed by the amendment as a
means of effectually preventing the violation or evasion of the
prohibition against the coming of Chinese laborers. It was
designed as a safeguard to prevent the unlawful entry of such
laborers, under the pretence that they belonged to the merchant class or to some other of the admitted classes. But the
phraseology of the section, in requiring that the certificate of
identification should state not only the holder's family and
tribal name in full, his title or official rank, if any, his age,
.height and all physical peculiarities, but also his former and
present occupation or profession, when and where and how
long pursued, and his place of residence, and, if a merchant,
the nature, character and estimated value of the business
carried on by him prior to and at the time of his application
for such certificate, involves the exaction of the unreasonable
and absurd condition of a foreign government certifying to
the United States facts in regard to the place of abode and
the business of persons iesiding in this country, which the
foreign government cannot be assumed to know, and the
means of information in regard to which exist here, unless it
be construed to mean that Congress intended that the certificate should be procured only by Chinese residing in China or

LAU OW BEW v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

some other foreign country, and about to come for the fL'st
time into the United States for travel or business or to take
up their residence.
Mr. Justice Field, in the case already cited, referring to the
Chinese government, said: "That government could not be
expected to give, in its certificate, the particulars mentioned of
persons resident - some, perhaps, for many years - out of its
jurisdiction. Neither the letter nor the spirit of the act calls
for a construction imputing to Congress the exaction of a
condition so unreasonable. . . . We repeat what we said.
in the case of Ah Tie and other Chinese laborers, that all
laws are to be so construed as to avoid an unjust or an absurd
conclusion; and general terms are to be so limited in their
application as not to lead to injustice, oppression or an absurd
consequence."
The section by its terms declares that "every Chinese prson, other than a laborer, who may be entitled by said treaty
or this act to come within the United States, and who shall
be about to come to the United States, shall obtain the permission of 'and be identified as so entitled by the Chinese
government, or of such other foreign government of which at
the time such Chinese person shall be a subject," the permission and identification in each case to be evidenced by the certificate described.
But Chinese merchants domiciled in the United States, and
in China only for temporary purposes, animo revertndi, do
not appear to us to occupy the predicament of persons "who
shall be about to come to the United States," when they start
on their return to the country of their residence and business.
The general terms used should be limited to those persons to
whom Congress manifestly intended to apply them, and they
would evidently be those who are about to come to the United
States for the first time, and, therefore, might properly be
required to apply to their own government for permission to
do so, as also to so identify them as to distinguish them as
belonging to the classes who could properly avail themselves
of such leave.
By general international law, fdreigners who have become

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

domiciled in a country other than their own, acquire rights
and must discharge duties in many respects the same as possessed by and imposed upon the citizens of that country, and
no restriction on the footing upon which such persons stand
by reason of their domicil of choice, or commercial domicil, is
to be presumed; while by our treaty with China, Chinese
merchants domiciled in the United States, have, and are entitled to exercise, the right of free egress and ingress- and all
other rights, privileges and immunities enjoyed in this country
by the citizens or subjects of the "most favored nation."
There can be no doubt, as was said by Mr. Justice Harlan,
speaking for the court in Chew Ileong v. United States, 112
U. S. 536, 549, that "since the purpose avowed in the act was
to faithfully execute the treaty, any interpretation of its provisions would be rejected which imputed to Congress an intention to disregard the plighted faith of the government,
and, consequently, the court ought, if possible, to adopt that
construction which recognized and saved rights secured by
the treaty."
Tested by this rule it is impossible to hold that this section
was intended to prohibit or prevent Chinese merchants, having
a'commercial domicil here, from leaving the country for temporary purposes and then returning to and reentering it, and
yet such would be its effect, if construed as contended for on
-behalf of appellee.
In the case of Ah Ping, 23 Fed. Rep. 329, 330, it was held
that the section did not apply to Chinese subjects, residents of
the United States, departing for temporary purposes of business or pleasure; and the late Judge Sawyer delivering the
opinion of the court said: "As to those domiciled in foreign
countries, there is no ready means in this country for their
identification. In the countries whence they propose to come,
the means of ascertaining the facts are at hand; hence the
provision. As to those resident or donjicile-d in this country,
we have ourselves the best means of identification; while as
to many of them, even in their native country, and much less
when they are temporarily in other foreign countries, there is
no practicable means of either identification, or for procuring

LAU OW BEW v. UITED STATES.
Opinion of the Couit.

the certificate prescribed. The United .States statutes do not
now, nor have they ever, required or provided for the issue of
any certificate in this country to resident Chinese, other than
laborers, who are about to depart temporarily, for business or
pleasure, either to China or other foreign countries. There
are many Chinese merchants in California who have been
domiciled in the State from 20 to 35 years. Our own means
of identification of such -persons are greatly superior to those
of any other country, even that of their nativity. To require
such parties, every time they -go to another country, to perform the required acts abroad, would be utterly impracticable,
and practically tantamount to an absolute refusal to permit
their return."
The question has been ruled in the same way by the Treasury Department on many occasions; by Secretary Folger,
March 14, 1884, Syn. T. D. 1884, 128; by Secretary Gresham,
September 25, 1884, Id. 400; by Secretary McCulloch, January 14, 1885, Id. 1885, 26; by Assistant Secretary French,
December 2, 1884; by Assistant Secretary Maynard, November 7, 1888; and by Acting, Secretary Batcheller, in the instructions of July 3,1890, already given.
. No other rule in this respect was laid down by Congress in
the act of September 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 476, c. 1015, nor in
that of October 1, 1888, 25 Stat. 504, c. 1064, when the absolute exclusion of Chinese laborers was prescribed. Chinese
Exclusion Case, 130 UJ. S..581.
We are of opinion that it was not intended that commercial
domicil should be forfeited by temporary absence at the domicil of origin, nor that resident merchants should be subjected
to loss of rights guaranteed by treaty, if they failed to produce
from the domicil of origin that evidence which residence in
the domicil of choice may have rendered it difficult if not impossible to obtain; and as we said in considering the application of this petitioner for the writ of certiorari, 141 U. S.583,
588 we do not think that the decision of this court in WVan
Shing v. United States, 140 U. S. 424, ruled anything to the
contrary of-the conclusions herein expressed. As there pointed
out, WVan Shing was not a merchant, but a laborer; he had

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

acquired no commercial domicil in this country: and whatever
domicil he had acquired, if any, he had forfeited by departure
and absence for seven years with no apparent intention of
returning. All the circumstances rendered it possible for him
to procure and produce the specified certificate and required
him to do so. We have no doubt of the correctness of the
judgment then rendered and the reasons given in its support.
As -Lau Ow Bew is, in our opinion, unlawfully restrained
of his liberty, we reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and, as required by
ยง 10 of the act of March 3, 1891, remand the cause to the
Circuit Court of the United Statesfor the Northern )istrict of California, with directions to reverse its judg-

ment and disch rge the petitioner.

BUTLER v. NATIONAL HOME FOR DISABLED VOL-

UNTEER SOLDIERS.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 170. Argued February 29, March 1, 1892.-

Decided March 14, 1892.

This action was brought by the defendant in error as plaintiff below against
the plaintiff in error, defendant below, to recover a balance alleged to be
due from him to the plaintiff below as its treasurer. The defendant below denied that any sum was due, and set up an accord and satisfaction.
At the trial, after the plaintiff rested, the defendant opened his case at
length setting forth the grounds of his defence. After some evidence
had been introduced, including the books of account and the evidence of
a witness who kept those books, a conversation took place betveen the
court and the defendant respecting the introduction of evidence alleged
by the court to be outside of the statements made in the opening. The
defendant insisted that the evidence offered was within those statements.
A further conversation resulted in the defendant's offering to show that
all the. moneys ever received by him as treasurer were duly accounted
for and paid over. The court held this to be a mixed proposition of law
and fact, and therefore not to be proved by witnesses or other evidence;

