OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Limited in this way, it is clear the defendants do not
infringe, making use, as they do, of springs, which are not
only quite different from the Kirkpatrick springs in their
design, but omit the important particular of projecting in
front of the steering post.
There was no error in the action of the court below, and its
decree is, therefore,
Alirmed.

POPE MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. GORMULLY
& JEFFERY MANUFACTURING COMPANY. (No. 4.)
APPEAL FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

THE NORTHERN
No. 208.

COURT OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Argued March 10, 11, 1892.- Decided April 4, 1892.

Pope Manufacturing Company v. Gormully, ante, 224, applied to this case so
far as the claim for recovery based upon contract is concerned.
Claims 2 and -3 in letters patent No. 249,278, issued November 8, 1881, to

Albert E. Wallace for an axle bearing for vehicle wheels are void for
want of novelty.
Claims 2 and 3 in letters patent No. 280,421, issued July " 1883, to Albert
E. Wallace for an improvement upon the device covered by his patent

of November 8, 1881. are also void for want of novelty.
THIs was a bill in equity for the infringement of letters patent
No. 249,278, issued November 8, 1881, to Albert E. Wallace,
for an axle bearing for vehicle wheels; and patent No.
280,421, issued July 3, 1883, to the same person and for a
similar device. In addition to the usual allegations of the bill
for an infringement, it was alleged that the defendants were
bound by. certain covenants in the contract of December 1,
i884, entdred into with the plaintiff, in which they acknowledged the validity of these patents, and agreed not to manufacture ball bearings such as desqribed and shown, and made
the subject matter of its claim, and that they are, therefore,
estopped to deny the validity of such patents; and that it
was also stipulated in said agreement that the devices such as
were being made by, the defendant were contained in said

POPE M'F'G CO. v. GORMULLY MF'G°CO. (No. 4.)

255

Opinion of the Court.

patents, and covered by the claims thereof, whereby- the
defendants were estopped to deny infringement.
The court below held that the defeindants were not estopped
by this contract; that the patents were invalid; and that, if
valid, they were not infringed; and dismissed the bill, from
which decree the plaintiff appealed to this court. 34 Fed.

Rep. 896.
Lewis L. Coburn and Mr. Edmund Wetmore for
.1.
appellant.
Mr. Charles . Offleld for appellees.
was with him on the brief.

3&r. W. C. GOUd4y

mn.Jusio. BRowu delivered the opinion of the court.
As we have already held, in the case between the plaintiff
and-defendant Gomully, No. 204, that the contract of December 1, 1884, did h6t operate to estop the defendants from contesting the validity of these patents, it is not necessary to
consider this case any farther so far as the claim for recovery
based upon this contract is concerned. The case must be
tried as an ordinary suit in equity for the infringement of a
patent.
(1) Patent No. 249,278, to Albert E. Wallace, is for an
-improvement in axle bearings for vehicle wheels. The' object
* of the invention seems to have been the construction of a ball
bearing-in two parts in such manner as to admit of the wear
of the balls being taken up gradually, as the wear progresses,
in order to keep the bearings tight. In - reference to this lie
says in his specification:
"CHeretofore many anti-friction bearings have been made
and described, including various forms of ball bearings, and
the latter class have been coistructed so as to be adjustable
for wear by ha -ng the bearing-box made in two or more
parts, and so that they-may be made to approach each other
to tighten the bearings. In respect to bearings for light
wheels, particularly for bicycles, it is desirable to make the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

parts as light and snug and of as little material as possible,
consistently with strength. To make them true - that is, so
that the balls shall be perfect spheres - and of even diameter,
and that the bearing surfaces in which they revolve shall be
of even distance apart, and of even curvature and shape, and
shall be kept so, and that in putting together and adjusting
the bearing parts shall be made to approach each other with
perfect evenness. It is also desirable to make the parts and
their joints as few as possible, so that the structure composed
of them when put together and in operation shall not be liable
to displacement, breakage or accident.
"' It is the object of my improvement to secure these desirable qualities in an adjustable anti-friction ball-bearing, and
to obviate the difficulties and imperfections existing in previous attempts in this direction."
The second and third claims only are alleged to have been
infringed. They are as follows:
"2. The described anti-friction bearing for a wheel and axle,
consisting of a one-part bearing-box and a two-part sleeve, having a circular row of balls within said box and between bearing surfaces in the box and on either part of the sleeve, and
adapted for adjustment for wear and securement in position
on an axle by a screw-thread at the outer end of one part of
the sleeve, operating to draw it toward and from the other
part, substantially as set forth.
"3. The described anti-friction bearing for a wheel and axle,
consisting of a two-part collar or sleeve adapted to inclose the
axle, a one-part bearing-box inclosing said sleeve and containinr a r.ecess with bearing surfaces, between which and a bearing.surrace on either part the. said sleeve is held, a circular row
of balls combined and constructed essentially as shown and
described, for securement in position and adjustment for wear
by the pressure of one part of the sleeve against the hub of
the wheel, and by an external thread on the other part of the
sleeve operating in an internal thread in a boss secured to the
axle on the opposite side, substantially as set forth."
In reference to the adjustability of his device he says that
"it is obvious that this bearing will be readily adjustable to

POPE 'M'F'G CO. v. GORI=TULLY M'F'G CO. (1o. 4.) 257
Opinion of the Court.

compensate for any wear of the bearing parts by simply loosening the set screws, and turning the collar S', so that the
thread shall force it farther into the bearing-box, the impinging of the surface, .p, upon the balls tending to send them to
and a properly close bearing upon the surfaces, qg and _pl, as
in putting the parts together."
The essence of this patent, as we gather from the drawings
and the application, consists of two sleeves sliding upon the.
axle from opposite directions, the inner ends of which are
each bevelled, so that when the ends are brought together, or
nearly so, they will form a V-shaped groove upon the axle,
the inner one of these sleeves resting upon the hub of the axle,
and the outer one connected with the crank, both the crank
and the'sleeve being threaded with a screw. Upon the axle
is fitted a solid bearing-box with a similar V-shaped groove
containing metallic balls, and adapted to be partly retained in
the groove upon the axle formed by the two bevelled sleeves,
one of which is made adjustable, so as to approach very near to
or in contact with the other sleeve, and thus take up the wear
of the balls by narrowing the V-shaped groove in which they
are contained.
The use of ball-bearings for bicycle and other wheels was so
common at the date of this patent that it is needless even to
allude to the large number of prior patents upon this subject.
Bearing in mind that the peculiarity of this patent consists
in a sleeve of two parts adapted for adjustment for wear and
securement in position by a screw-thread at the outer end of
one part of the sleeve, operating to draw it toward and from
the other part, we find practically 'the same device in the
English patent to James Bate, for improvements in velocipedes,
dated November 14, 1878. Figure 20 of this patent indicates
in section a method of affixing and adjusting the cones of a
velocipede front or back axle bearing. A fixed cone corresponding to the plaintiff's sleeve, S, is screwed on to a spindle,
and has a sleeve formed solid therewith, and screwed inside
and .out. Another adjustable cone, corresponding to plaintiff's
sleeye, S', is screwed upon the sleeve and is locked by a nut
or collar, also screwed upon the sleeve. The groovq correYoL. cxmrv-17

1258

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

sponding to the V-shaped groove of the plaintiff's patent is
formed by the contact of these two cones, precisely as in the
Wallace patent, and the feature of adjustability is attained by
screwing the adjustable cone upon the sleeve as far as necessary
to tighten the bearings, and even up, to actual contact with
the fixed cone. So far as the object to be accomplished is
concerned, it makes no difference which one of these cones is
adjustable, so long as it affords opportunity for a gradual
tightening of the bearing. If there be any difference between
this and the Wallace patent, it is not such a difference as
affects the essential feature of both, namely, that of adjustability, or such as to involve any patentable novelty.
The English patents to Lewis, of 1879, and to Bown and
Hughes, of March, 1880, also exhibit a somewhat similar
devide of a loose adjustable cone, but the resemblance to the
Wallace patent is not so obvious as in case of the Bate patent.
As the Bate patent anticipates every valuable feature of the
second and third claims of the Wallace patent, it is unnecessary to consider the question of infriiagement.
(2) Patent number 280,421, granted July 3, 1883, to the
same. party, is for an improvement upon the device covered by
the prior patent, and consists in providing the inner sleeve of
that patent, which surrounds the axle and rests against the
hub of the wheel, with a flange annulus, and attaching to the
hub and wheel a locking-button, which engages with notches
or teeth on the edge of the annulus, and locks it to thle hub so
that the sleeve will always turn with the axle or hub. This
construction also provided for an adjustment of the inner
sleeve on the axle as well as the outer sleeve.
Another modification of this patent not contained in the
first, consists in the construction of the bearing-box. In the
first patent the bearing-box was attached directly to the frame
of the machine, while in the second it is placed within a shell,
which in turn is attached to the frame of the machine.
The claims of this patent alleged to be infringed are the second and third, which read as followg:
"2. Constructed and combined substantially as herein set
forth, a two-part sleeve, a bearing-box, a row of balls, a ser-

POPE M'F'G CO. v. GORMULLY M'F'G 00. (No. 4.) 259
Opinion of the Court.

rated annulus, and a locking-button with an axle and hub and
flange, essentially as shown and described.
"3. The combination, in a ball-bearing device, of a free
bearing-box G, and a shell-case E, substantially as set forth."
This patent contains in addition all the substantial features
of the first patent. Neither of them presented any lateral or
side bearing for the bearing-box, its entire bearing being
through the balls, both to support the weight vertically and to
resist the thrust. Both have two sleeves surrounding the axle.
I the first patent, one sleeve was adjustable, while in the
other the second sleeve was also made adjustable, and provided with an annular flange serrated on its circumference to
engage with a locking-button to lock it at any desired adjustment to the flange. A similar serrated ring, with 'a corresponding locking device, is .found in the English patent to
Monks, of 1880, who states that he employs"" a turned bush,
conical at the outer end, and a somewhat similar one which is
screwed upon the outside of the first said bush. In the Vshaped groove, which is formed by these two bushes, when in
position, I arrange a series of balls which rotate between the
bushes and the lower, part of the fork, which forms a cap,
somewhat circular, with a segmental groove in it for the balls
to work in. . . . The outer end of the bush is formed into
a milled or rachet-head, and is prevented from turning round
after adjustment by means of a pawl fastened to a plate, my
object being adjustment in a simple and efficacious manner
when required." The shell-case described in the third claim of
this patent seems to be found in the Salamon bearing patent
of 1880, and the Jeffery patent of 1883, under the latter of
which the defendant is manufacturing. The patent, though
issued the same year as the Wallace patent, antedates it, both
in respect to the application and the patent itself. We agree
with the conclusion of the court below, that "with these old
devices found in the art it seems clear to us that the defendants had the right to use the ball-bearing boxes which are
shown by the proof to have been embodied in their machine."
It may be said of both of these patents that they are mechanical adaptations of or variations from what had before

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

been exhibited by the English patents, rather than inventions
of anything essentially novel. They appear to involve such
immaterial changes as would be required to adapt a known
device to use in a combination with other elements already
existing, and such as would occur to any skilled mechanic.
Indeed, the object of these patents, and the same remark may
be made of all, or nearly all, involved in these suits, seems to
have been principally to forestall competition, rather than to
obtain the just rewards of an inventor. It is true the deferldants make use of devices similar in many particulars to those
employed by the plaintiff, but they, too, seem rather to have
adopted prior and known devices, and fitted them to the peculiar construction of their machine, rather than to have purloined them from the plaintiff.
These cases are not without their difficulties, owing somewhat to the complicated nature *of some of the devices, the
number of anticipating patents, the difficulty of determining
how far the later ones are merely colorable variations of the
prior ones, and how far they involve invention; but upon the
best consideration we have been able to give them we have
seen no reason to differ from the judgment of the court below
in its estimate of their value.
The decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore,
Afflrmed.

]cLANE v. KING.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 235. Argued and submitted March 24, 1892. -Decided

April 4, 1892.

In this suit the property of a corporation in a bridge constructed by it over
the San Antonio River is held to have been lawfully transferred by the
foreclosure of a mortgage upon it.

Tins suit was originally commenced in the District Court of
Karnes County, Texas, on September 12, 1882, and thereafter

