OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

the laws of the United States, and this being so, it was competent for Congress to give the enumerated courts jurisdiction
over not only controversies immediately relating to or growing out of the construction of the road, but over all controversies between the nations and tribes or the inhabitants thereof,.
through whose territory the railroad might be constructed,
and the company.
And as the civil jurisdiction of these courts was extended
within the limits of the Territory, without distinction as to
the citizenship of the parties, "so far as may be necessary to
carry out the provisions of this act," and that might embrace
all controversies arising between the inhabitants or the nations
and tribes and the railway company, we do not regard the
addition of these words as intended to operate as a limitation
of the controversies to those growing out of the construction
of the road merely, since the section in terms applies to "all
controversies."
It is true that apart from jurisdiction over the subject matter, a citizen of a Territory cannot sue a citizen of a State in
the courts of the United States, nor an Indian tribe or nation
sue a State or its citizens, but the judicial power extends to all
cases in law and equity arising under the laws of the United
States, and this case falls within that category, and therefore
the jurisdiction in question could be conferred, as we hold that
it was.
The decision of the Circuit Court was right and its judgment is
Afirmed.

DILLMAN v. HASTIN'GS.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 201. Argued March 9, 1892.-

Decided March 28, 1892.

From March, 1875, to May, 1881, D. sent to H. from time to time various
sums of money, to be lent by him for complainant at interest, H. being

DILLIAN v. HASTINGS.
Opinion of the Court.
instructed and agreeing to reinvest the interest in the same way. The
money was at first invested at 10 per cent, but early in 1881 H. informed
D. that the rate was reduced to 8 per cent. H. died in 1886. D. filed a
bill in equity against his executors for an account and payment of what
might be found due. They answered and the cause was referred to a
master. , The executors produced at the hearing no books of accounts
or papers of H. and no statements by him of his investments. In the
account stated by the master interest was included up to April 1, 1881, at
10 per cent, and at 8 per cent thereafter with annual rests, and a decree
was entered accordingly. Held,
(1) That a trust relation between the parties was disclosed, which
entitled the complainant to an account;
(2) That it was the duty of H. to keep an account and that in its absence
it must be presumed that he reinvested interest moneys, as received, at the rates named in the correspondence;
(3) That after his death his executors should be charged at the legal
rate of 6 per cent;
(4) That certain claims set up by the executors for taxes paid, were not
sustained by the proof.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Ar.A. S. Worthington for appellant.
No appearance for appellees.

MR. OHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was a bill filed by Jared W. *Dillman,November 8, 1886,
against the administrators of Joseph Hastings, deceased, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of Ohio, which set forth that from and including the
month of March, 1875, to and including the month of. May,
1881, complainant sent to Hastings from time to time various
sums of money to be lent by him for complainant at interest,

Hastings being instructed and agreeing to reinvest the interest
in the same way. T he money' was first invested at ten per
cent annual interest, but early in 1881 Hastings informed Dillman that the rate of interest was reduced to eight per cent.

Hastings diecton February 12, 1886.
The administrators answered, alleging ignorance of the'

OCTOBER TERMIr, 1891..
Opinion of the Court.

transactions or agreements between Hastings and Dillman
except that they admitted that at the time of his death
Hastings had of Dilman's money the sum of $1875. They
also averred that ail agreement to account for interest at ten
per cent was illegal and void-; and set up the statute of limitations as to that part of the account which accrued prior to
December 25, 1879.
Replication was duly filed and depositions taken, and on
January 10, 1888, by agreement of parties the' cause was
referred to the clerk of the court "becaus6 of his skill in matters of accounting," as a special master, 11to hear ana from
the testimdny determine and report to the court, what, if anything, is due complainant herein from the defendants herein
on account of the matters set forth in complainant's bill filed
herein and what relief be granted to said complainant; and
for the purposes of this reference the said special master is
hereby vested with all the power and authority conferred
upon masters in chancery by the equity rules of the Supreme
Court and by the practice of this court. He is authorized to
hear testimony, and he will report his findings of law and fact,
together with the evidence taken, and also state an -account,
based upon such facts, between said parties, at the earliest
practicable day."
On April 28, 1888, the master filed his report, finding due
to the complainant the sum of $14,394.50, with interest thereon
at the rate of six per cent from February 12, 1886. This
total was arrived at by charging Hastings with the cash
received by him, with interest on each item at ten-per cent,
with annual rests, to April 1, 1881, and at eight per cent
thereafter, making an aggregate of $15,694.50, and deducting
therefrom a credit by cash paid on February 2, 1886, of $700,
and also the sum of $600 for compensation allowed Hastings,
leaving a blIance of $14,394.50.
Complainant's counsel filed three exceptions to the master's
report, of which the first and second alone were relied on,
which were: (1) That the master allowed interest at the rate
of only six .per cent from the ti~me of 'the death of Joseph
Hastings, whereas he should have allowed eight per cent:

DILLMANiv.

HASTINGS.

Opinion of the Court.

(2) That the master allowed a bompensation of $600 for services of Hastings, whereas no compensation should have been.
awarded. The defendants filed ten exceptions, but they have
not appealed, and therefore these need not be c6nsidered,
except so far as they were sustained by the court.
The case having come on to be heard on the report and the
exceptions on both sides, was argued by counsel, and the
court disallowed complainant's exceptions, and also defendants'
exceptions, except that the court found "that the master
erred in the method of computing interest on the amounts
in his report set forth; that the taxes set out in the evidence
in the case should have been allowed .the respondents, and
that the respondents should have been allowed the sum of
one thousand and eighty dollars for compensation for services
in the agency." And the court, except as above specified,
confirmed and approved the 'report, and, after making the
allowances indicated, found that there was due complainant
from the administrators of the estate the sum of $12,172.59,
with interest from June 5, 1888, the first day of the term, and
decreed accordingly. The case was thereupon appealed to this
court by the complainant
In the account stated by the master, interest was included
up to April 1, 1881, at the rate of ten per cent, and at eight
per cent thereafter, with annual rests. This was upon the
view that Hastings had invested complainant's ,reinittances
at these rates, and received and reinvested the interest in the
same way, as shown by the cbrrespondence between the
parties. We concur with the master that this is a fair deduc•tion from the evidence, which leaves no reasonable doubt
that such was the fact, and if not, that complainant believed
it to be so upon the strength of Hastings' assurances to that
effect, and left the money in his hands under that conviction.
Not only did. the correspondence sustain the master's conclusion, but the administrators did not testify, and produced
no books or papers showing the state of accounts between the
decedent and the complainant, notwithstanding notice to do
so, and although the letters tended A establish that Hastings
k~pt-a-,tQ6k-ontaliD1ng,an accoun,

of!--is inestments for

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

complainant.

The trust relation between the parties was

fully disclosed and entitled complainant to a complete accounting; and, as the master held, it was clearly Hastings'
duty to keep accounts as between him and complainant, and
whatever data existed in Hastings' papers, calculated to
throw light upon the transactions, should of course have been
furnished. In the absence of such data and upon a careful
examination of the evidence, we hold that the master was
right in the course he pursued.
On the second of April, 1881, complainant wrote Hastings
that, according to his account, if he had calculated correctly,
the sum in Hastings' hands on April 1 amounted to about
$10,500; and this does not appear to have been questioned by
Hastings. According to the master's report the sum at that
time, interest being included at ten per cent, with annual rests,
was $10,495.18, and interest after that was calculated at eight
per cent with which rate complainant wrote he should be
entirely satisfied, but wished his money returned to him so
far as that rate could not be obtained.
Defendants' third exception questioned the allowance of
interest upon the ground that an agreement to account to
plaintiff at such rates would be illegal and void, and because it
was not shown that such interest was received by the deceased.
But it was iiot contended that if the interest were received,
defendants were not obliged to account therefor, and we think
fdr the reasons given that this exception should not have been
sustained. The Circuit Court does not seem to have delivered any opinion, and there is nothing in the decree giving a sufficient basis to ascertain, with precision, in what
respect the court held that the master erred in-the method
of computing interest. But this is not material, inasmuch
as we are of opinion that, the master's report was cBrrect in
this regard.
After the death of Hastings, which occurred, as already
stated, on February 12, 1886, his administrators should not be
held to respond at a greater rate of interest than six per cent,
which was the legal rate in Ohio, in the absence of special
agreement, it not sufficiently appearing that they themselves

DILLMA

'v HASTINGS.

Opinion of the Court.

received interest at a higher rate, and therefore the complainant's first exception was properly overruled.
The master allowed six hundred dollars compensation,
which was raised by the court to one thousand and eighty
dollars. A portion of this increase, ,we presume, was for
interest upon the proper compensation from -time to time
during the period covered by the transactions. At all events,
while the proof is not satisfactory that Hastings was to obtain
his compensation from complainant rather than from the borrowers, we are not inclined to modify the decision of the court
upon this point, and this disposes of the second exception.
It was found by the court that the taxes set out in the evidence as paid by Hastings should have been allowed the defendants. As we understand the record, these taxes amounted
with the interest thereon, calculated at ten per cent and eight
per cent up to February 12, 1886, to $770.45, and we, agree
with the master that it does not appear for whom these taxes
were paid. It was provided by the statut&of Ohio that "every
person required to list property on behalf of others
shall list it separately from his own, specifying in each case
the name of the person, company or corporation to whom it
belongs." IRev. Stats. Ohio, 1890, § 27.: No such listing of
Dillman's money is shown.
The eidence established the payment of certain taxes by
Hastings, but not that they were paid on account of Dillman
or of anybody other than himself. It appeared that Hastings
had money of his own, and that he received money from other
persons than Dillman, which he loaned for them, taking the
securities in his own-name. If Dillman cduld have been taxed
in respect'of his moneys in Ohio, it is enough that the record
does not show that these taxes were leyied as against such
moneys, and paid on his account. And hiere again the absence
of evidence on defendants' behalf should be borne in mind,
for, we repeat, it was Hastings' duty to have kept accounts,
and the case made justifies the inference that there were
such. The bill avers that when complainant presented his
claim against the estate he credited these taxes, with interest,
upon the faith of a memorandum furnished by defendantdi

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

but, finding that the credit was unfounded, he insisted that he
should not be charged therewith. In our judgment the court
ought not to have allowed the taxes under the circumstances.
We notice that interest should have been allowed at the
rate of eight per cent on the $700 paid by Hastings to Dillman, February 2, 1886, from that date to February 12, being
$1.55, as shown by the account annexed to the bill.
The amount found due by the master was $15,694.50, from
which he deducted $700 in cash, paid February 2, 1886, and
$600 for compensation. We think from the $15,694.50 there
should be deducted $701.55, and also $1080 as compensation,
as found by the court. This leaves a balance of $13,912.95,
and to that extent the decree is modified.
The result is that the decree will be reversed with costs, and
the cause remanded with a direction to enter a decree for
$13,912.95, with interest at six per cent from February 12,
1886, to the date of the decree.

.Dee r'ever'sed.

BEDON v. DAVIE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE DIS-"
TRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 210.

Argued March 16, 1892.- Decided March 28, 1892.

A judgment for the plaintiffs was rendered in August, 1873, in a United
States Court in South Carolina, in an action at law in ejectment, in which
a minor was defendant, and appeared and answered by a guardian ad
litem, and which minor became of age in December, 1885, and brought a
writ of error from this court, under § 1008 of the Revised Statutes,
within. two years after the entry of the judgment, exclusive of the term
of the disability of ,the minor. The case involved the title to land in
South Carolina under a will'made in 1819, the testator dying in 1820. In
June, 1850, a suit in equity was brought in a state court of South Carolina, which set up that the title to the land, under the will, was either in
the grandmother of the minor or in her sons, one of whom was the
father of the minor, the grandmother and the father of the minor being
parties defendant to the suit, and the bill having been taken pro confeso

