MEYERHEI f v. ROBERTSON.
Syllabus.

of the original notes in 1867 and the transfer in 1884 had
expended $40,000 on the mill property, had built the brick
block in question, which cost probably not less than $12,000,
his dwelling-house, and his share of the Albany water works,
would allow a mortgage to secure a debt of $10,000 to remain
on his mill for seventeen years; and that Crawford would
permit the unpaid interest on such debt to accumulate to
$6000, and then take a note for the amount without interest
or security. And he expressed dissatisfaction with the explanation as to the cancellation of the mortgage, that it was done
to avoid the operation of the mortgage tax law of 1882; and
held that the decided weight of the evidence supported the
conclusion that the mill notes were paid before the conveyance'to William Crawford was made, and that therefore that
conveyance was without consideration and fraudulent against
the creditors of Foster.
We have patiently examined the evidence contained in the
record, and it is impossible for us to reverse the decree for
error or mistake in the conclusions of the master and the.
court, depending, as they do, upon the weighing of conflicting
testimony, and entitled, as they are, to every reasonable
presumption in their favor.
The decree must be
Afflrnmed,.

NEYERHE1M v. ROBERTSON.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 279. Argued April 5,6, 1892.-Decided April 18,1892.

Laces made by machinery out of linen thread were imported in 1881 and
1882, and charged with duty at 40 per cent ad valorem, as "manufactures
of flax, or of which flax shall be the component material of chief value,
not otherwise proyided for," under Schedule C of ยง 2504 of the Revised
The importers claimed that they were chargeable
Statutes (p. 462).
with a duty of only 30 per cent ad valorem, as "thread lace," under the
same schedule (p. 463). Held, that, as the evidence clearly showed that

OCTOBER TERMI,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.
the goods were invariably bought and sold as "torchons," and not as
thread laces, and that thread lace was always hand-made, it was proper
to direct a verdict for the defendant, in a.suit brought by the importer
against the collector to recover an alleged excess of.duty.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-M. Edwin B. Smitk (with whom were Mr. William Stanley awid Mr. Stephen t. ,GUla on the brief) for plaintiffs in
error.
in error.
Mr.A sistantAltorney GeneralParkerfordefendant

MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action at law, brought in the Superior Court of
the city of New York, in November, 1882, by Siegmund MAeyerhe'im, William Kempner and Henry Strahiheim, against
William H. Robertson, late collector of the port of New York,
and removed, by the defendant into the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, to recover $764.50, as an alleged excess of duties exacted on the
importation of certain goods into the port of New York in
the years 1881 and 1882. The case was tried before a jury in
June, 1888, and a verdict rendered for the defendant, on
which there was -ajudgment in his favor, for costs.
The importation was of certain laces made by machinery
out of linen thread, and with them certain laces of the same
material made by hand. The defendant assessed, duty upon
all the laces at 40 per cent ad valorem, under the provision of
Schedule C of ยง 2504 of the Revised Statutes, (p. 462,) which
imposed that rate of duty on "flax or linen thread, twine and
pack-thiead, and all other manufactures of flax, or of which
flax shall be the component material of chief value, not other-wise provided for." The plaintiffs claimed that the goods
were dutiable at only 30 per cent ad valorem, as "thread lace
and insertings," under the same Schedule, p.-463.
After the suit was brought, the Secretary of the Treasury
refunded to the plaintiffs all excessive sums exacted upon such

ROBERTSON v. SALOMON.
Syllabus.

of the above importations of laces of linen thread as were
made by hand, leaving the controversy only as to those laces
of linen thread which were made by machinery. All the
laces, whether made by hand or machinery, were known,
bought and sold as "trchons," and the issue presented was
whether or not machine-made torchons were dutiable as
" thread lace," or as " manufactures of flax, or of which flax
shall be the component material of chief value, not otherwise
provided for."
The articles were made wholly of linen thread, and, therefore, of flax. It clearly appeared by the- testimony of one of
the plaintiffs that he never heard the machine-made goods
bought and sold as thread laces, but invariably as "ttorchons."
The testhnony on the part of the defendant was to the same
effect, and showed that thread lace was always hand-made.
The defendant requested the court to direct a verdict in his
favor, while the plaintiffs claimed to go to the jury. A verdict for the defendant was. directed, and the plaintiffs excepted.
We do not think there was any question for the jury, on
the evidence.
________

Tudgment afflrmed.

IOBERTSON v. SALOMO1.
ERROR TO THE oIRcTrrr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRIOT OF NEW YORK.
No. 272. Argued April 4, 5, 1892.-Decided April 18, 1892.

Elastic webbings, used as gorings for shoes, some composed of worsted afid
india-rubber, and the rest of cotton, silk and india-rubber, imported in
March and June, 1884, were assessed with duties, the former as "gorings,"
at 30 cents per 'pound and 50 per cent ad valorem, under Schedule K of
ยง 2502 of Title 33 of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by ยง 6 of the act
of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 509, and the latter -at 35 per cent ad
valorem, as "webbing, composed of uotton, flax or any other materials,
not specially enumerated or provided for in this act," under Schedule N
of the" same section. Id. 514. The importers claimed that they were
dutiable at 30 per cent ad valorem under said Schedule N, (Id. 513,) as

