OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Nor do we think that plaintiff has any better standing by
reason of the allegation that the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Michigan had no jurisdiction of the utherland suit,
because Sutherland was not a citizen of New Jersey, but was
a citizen of the same State as Birdseye. This defence was
interposed by Birdseye, in his answer, and was determined
against him. That determination cannot be questioned here.
Moreover, to the consolidated suit, Wells was himself a party
as were the trustees named in the various trust deeds, and all
were bound by the decree and the subsequent proceedings
thereunder.
Suggestion is made in argument that plaintiff was entitled,
under the prayer for general relief, to invoke the aid of the
court to let him in to share in the benefits of defendants' purchase, but it is sufficient to say that such relief would not be
conformable to the case made by the bill.
The demurrers were properly sustained, and the decree is

Afflrmed.

In re HEATH, Petitioner.
ORIGInAL.
No Number. Argued February 1, 1892.-Decided March 21, 1892.

This court has no appellate jurisdiction over judgments of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia in criminal cases.

THOMAs H. HEATH was convicted of manslaughter at a special criminal term of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, and sentenced to be confined in the penitentiary at
Albany, 'New York. Upon appeal to the general term of that
court the judgment was affirmed, whereupon he applied for a
writ of error from this court-.
The petition was originally presented to the Chief Justice;
and, by order duly made, referred to the court in session for
the consideration and determination of the question of jurisdiction arising thereon.

IN RE HEAT.
Opinion of the Court.

Xfr. JoAn

yon for the petitioner.

.Mr. Assistant Attorney Generi Yaury opposing.
-Mm. CHIEF
court.

Sn0TioE Fuum -delivered the opinion of the

]By section five of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, (26
Stat. 826, c. 517,) it was provided that appeals and writs of
error might be taken "from the District Courts or from the
existing Circuit Courts" directly to this cou'rt "in cases of
conviction of a capital or otherwise infamous crime." And
although this case is not embraced in terms within the appellate jurisdiction conferred by the provision, yet it is contended
that it falls within it, when taken in connection with section
846 of the Revised Statutes of the District of Columbia. That
section Is as follows: "Any final judgment, order or decree
of the Supreme Court of the District may be reexamined and
reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court of the United
States upon writ of error or appeal, in the same cases and in
like manner as provided by law in reference to the final judgments, orders and decrees of the Circuit Court of the United
States."
The argument is, that the phrase "as provided by law"
should be construed as if it read "as is, or has been, or may be
provided by law." But when we consider the general rule
that the affirmative description of the cases in which the jurisdiction may be exercised implies a negative on the exercise of
such power in other cases, it will be seen that to give to this
local legislation extending the appellate jurisdiction of this
court to the District of Columbia, the construction contended
for, so as to make it include all subsequent legislation touching
our jurisdiction over Circuit Courts of the United State , is
quite inadmissible.
Prior acts may be incorporated in a subsequent one in terms
or by relation, and when this is done, the repeal of the former
leaves the latter in force, unless also repealed expressly or by
necessary implication. And the adoption in a local law of the

OCTOBER TERIM,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

provisions of a general law does not carry with it the adoption
of changes afterwards made in the general law. This was so
ruled in Kendali v. United States, 12 Pet. 524, 625. One of
the questions there was whether the then Circuit Court of this
District had power to issue the writ of mandamus to a public
officer. That court was established by the act'of Congress of
February 27, 1801, (2 Stat. 103, c. 15,) which provided by section 3: "That there shall be a court in said District, which
shall be called the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia;
and the said court and the judges thereof shall have all the
powers by law vested in the Circuit Courts and the judges
of the Circuit Courts of the United States." At the time this
law went into effect, the powers of the Circuit Courts of the
United States were prescribed by the act of February 13, 1801,
(2 Stat. 89, c. 4,) which act was repealed by the act -of March
8, 1802, (2 Stat. 132, c. 8). This court held that the Circuit
Court of the District possessed the powers vested under the
act of February 13, 1801, notwithstanding its repeal, and Mr.
Justice Thompson, delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"It was not an uncommon course of lekislation in the
States, at an early day, to adopt, by reference, British statutes; and this has been the course of legislation by Congress
in many instances where state practice and state process have
been adopted. And such adoption has always been considered as referring to the law existing at the time of adoption;
and no subsequent legislation has ever been supposed to affect
it. And such must necessarily be the effect and operation of
such adoption. No other rule would furnish any certainty as
to what was the law, and would be adopting prospectively all
changes that might be made in the law. And this has been
the light, in which this court has viewed such legislation. In
the case of cathcart v. Robinson, 5 Pet. 280, the court, in
speaking of the adoption of certain English statutes, say, by
adopting them, they become our own as entirely as if they had
been enacted by the legislature. We are then to construe this
third section of the act of 27th of February, 1801, as if the
eleventh section of the act of 13th of February, 1801, had
been incorporated at full length; and by this section it is de-

I RE HEATH.
Opinion of the Court.

cared that the Circuit Courts shall have cognizance of all
cases in law or equity, arising under the Constitution and laws
of the United States, and treatiet made, or which shall be
made under their authority; which are the very words of the
Constitution, and which is, of course, a delegation of the whole
judicial power, in cases arising under the Constitution and
laws, etc.; which meets and supplies the precise want of delegation of power, which prevented the exercise of jurisdiction
in the cases of 7cIntirev. Wood, 7 Crauch, 504, and fc Clung
v. Siltiman, 6 Wheat. 598; and must, on the principles which
governed the decision of the court in those cases, be sufficient
to vest the power in the Circuit Court of this District."
We do not consider the weight of this decision, as authority,
weakened by anything that fell from the court in Wales v.
WTdiney, 114 U. S. 561. That was an appeal from the judgment of the Supreme Court of the District denying an application for a writ of habeas co' us. Upon the judgment being
announced, an original application was made to this court for
the writ, but, as stated by Mr.-; Justice Miller in the opinion,
"on a suggestion from the court that an act of Congress, at
its session just closed, had restored the appellate jurisdiction
of this court in habeas corpus c'ses over decisions of the Circuit Courts, and that this necessarily incl uded jurisdiction over
similar judgments of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, counsel, on due consideration, withdrew their application," and brought up the record on appeal; and it was
added that section 846 of the Revised Statutes of the District
"justifies the exercise of our appellate jurisdiction in the present case.I
The act of March 3, 1885, "amending section seven hundred
and sixty-four of the Revised Statutes," (23 Stat. 437; Supp. R.
S. 485, 2d ed.,) was referred to in the margin of Wales v. Witmy. The Revised Statutes of the United States and the Revised Statutes of the District were approved June 22, 1874, and
section 764 of the former provided for an appeal to the Supreme
Court "in the cases described in the last clause of the preceding
section." The words "in the last clause" operated as a limitation and by the amendatory act were stricken out. By the acts

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

of August 29, 1842, (c. 257, 5 Stat. 539,) and of February 5, 1867,
(c. 28, 14 Stat. 385,) an appeal from the judgments of the Circuit
Courts in habeas corpus cases was allowed to this court, and by
section 11 of the act of March 3, 1863, (c. 91, 12 Stat. 764), the
same provision was made in relation to the judgments, orders
or decrees of the Supreme Court of the District, as is now contained in section 846 of the District Revised Statutes. And as
section 764 of the Revised Statutes and said section 846 were
contemporaneously enacted, it was assumed that striking out
the restrictive words from section 764 should be allowed like
effect upon section 846. The question of jurisdiction was not
argued, and no reference was made to the act of iMarch 3,
1885, regulating appeals from the Supreme Court of the District, (23 Stat. 443,) and providing that no appeal or writ of
error should be allowed from its judgments or decrees unless
the matter in dispute exclusive of costs should exceed the sum
of five thousand dollars, except in cases involving the validity
of any patent or copyright, or in which the validity 9f a treaty
or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United
States, was drawn in question.
The act of March 3, 1891, was passed to facilitate the
prompt disposition of cases in this court and to relieve it from
the oppressive burden of general litigation by the creation of
the Circuit Courts of Appeals and the distribution of the
appellate jurisdiction. By sections five and six, cases of conviction of a capital or otherwise infamous crime are to be
taken directly to this court, and all other cases arising under
the criminal laws to the Circuit Courts of Appeals. Sections
thirteen and fifteen refer to appeals arid writs of error from
the decisions of the United States Court in the Indian Territory and .the judgments, orders and decrees of the Supreme
Courts of the Territories. No mention is made of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and we perceive no
ground for holding that the judgments of that court in criminal cases were intended to be embraced by its provisions.
The conclusion is that we have no jurisdiction to grant the
writ applied for, and the.petition is, therefore,
Denied.

