GORDON v. THIRD NATIONAL BANK.
Statement of the Case.

GORDON v. THIRD NATIOIAL BANK OF CHATTANOOGA.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ATABA3fA.
No. 176. Submitted February 29, 1892. -Decided March 21, 1892.

In an action brought in the Circuit Court of the United States in Alabama
the complaint described the plaintiff as a bank organized in accordance
with the laws of the United States and as doing business in Tennessee,
and the defendant as residing in the State of Alabama. The summons
described the plaintiff as "a citizen of the State of Tennessee," and the
defendant " as a citizen of the State of Alabama." The question of.jurisdiction was raised for the first time in this court. Held, that although
greater care should have been exercised, by plaintiffs in the averments,
the diverse citizenship of the parties appeared'affirmatively and with
sufficient distinctness in the record.
A promissory note payable to the order of the maker, being endorsed by
him, was endorsed and delivered to another for his accommodation.
The latter endorsed it and borrowed money upon it, waiving demand
and protest. The waiver was stamped upon the back of .the note by
mistake over both endorsements. Held, that the liability of the maker
was not affected thereby.
The evidence ih this case does not tend to show a contract of extension for
a valid consideration, and for a definite and certain time, binding upon
the parties, and changing the nature of the contract to the prejudice of
the maker of the note.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This was an action by the Third National Bank of Chattanooga, Tennessee, against Eugene C. Gordon upon two promissory notes executed by Gordon and made payable to his own
order, and endorsed by him and also by D. G. Crudup & Co.
Gordon pleaded the general issue, and special pleas by setting
up, first, that the notes were merely accommodation paper for
the use and benefit of D. G. Crudup & Co., and that the bank,
after notice of that fact and with Gordon's consent, for a
valuable consideration, agreed with Crudup & Co. to extend
the time of payment of the notes to September 2,. 1887, and
VOL. cxLrv-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

thence to September 2, 1888, in consideration of a mortgage
on certain lots in Chattanooga together with some land company stock; second, that he did not endorse the notes in
manner and form as the bank set forth in its declaration;
third, that long after the maturity of the notes, which were
executed without other consideration than that of accommodation paper for the use of Crudup & Co., of which the bank
then and there had notice, Crudup & Co., by deed of general
assignment for the benefit of all their creditors and for the
payment of the notes, conveyed a large amount of personal
and real property to trustees, with full and ample p6wer to
collect, settle and dispose of the property and pay off all their
indebtedness, including the notes, and that thereafter the
bank, with notice aforesaid and without the knowledge or
consent of Gordon, agreed with Crudup & Co., in consideration, among other things, of enabling Crudup & Co. to effect
a general compromise with all their creditors, to waive its
right to have the payment of the notes made by the trustees
under the general deed of assignment, notwithstanding the
property conveyed was of sufficient value, and could have
been disposed of by the trustees for an amount in excess of
what would have been -necessary, to settle and discharge all
of their indebtedness, including the notes sued on.
The complaint alleged the plaintiff to be "a corporation
duly and legally organized, in accordance with the laws of the
government of the United States of America, under the style
and name of ' The Third National Bank of Chattanooga,' in
the State of Tennessee, doing business as bankers in the city
of Chattanooga in the State of Tennessee," and averred that
plaintiff "claims of the defendant, E. C. Gordon, who resides
in the county of Limestone, State of Alabama, in the northern
division of the Northern District of the State of Alabama, the
sum of five thousand dollars with interest," etc. This complaint was filed February 16, 1888, and thereupon a summons
issued, whereby the marshal of the district was "commanded
to summon E. C. Gordon, who is a citizen of the State of Alabama, to appear before the Hon. Circuit Court aforesaid, at
the place of holding said court, at Huntsville on the first

GORDON v. THIRD NATIONTAL BANK.
Statement of the Case.

:Monday of April next, to answer the complaint of the Third
National Bank of Chattanooga, who is a citizen of the State
of Tennessee."
There was evidence that the bank did "business at Chattanooga, Tennessee;" and that the defendant "lived" or "resided" at Decatur, Alabama.
The notes sued on were as follows:

"$2500.00.

0HATTANOOGA, TEi@T., .Feb''y15, 1887.
"Sixty days after date T promise to pay to the order of
myself twenty-five hundred dollars at 3rd Nat'n'l Bank, Ohattanooga, Tenn., value received.
"E. C3. GoI~noN."
Upon the back of this were the following words:
"Demand, protest and notice of protest waived and paymenf guaranteed within five days from date of maturity.

CE. C. G0 o,

"D. G. CRuDure & Co."
"$2500.00.
Cii'rr±T.ooGA, TENN., Fel' y 15, 1887.
"Ninety days after date I promise to pay to the order of
myself twenty-five hundred dollars at 3rd Nat'n'l Bank, Chattanooga, Tenn., value received.
"E. C. GogDo." '
Upon the back of this note were endorsed the names "E. C.
Gordon" and "D. -G. Crudup & Co.," and below the endorsement "E. C. Gordon" and above the endorsement "D. G.
Crudup & Co.," was stamped in printed letters the .following
words: "Demand, protest and notice of protest waived, and
payment guaranteed within live days from date of maturity."
It appeared from the tesimuony that the words on the back
of the notes besidep the sigr4aures were stamped thereon when
the nqtes, -!l dhenipt :the request of CrudupV &-Co., to save
prote vbfees a-4weas that Crudup & Co- agreed to the
waver andd, gqaran1tf so expressed, but defendant had nothirig to do mh that .agreement; that it was intended to stamp
the. word-ov tthe nirdeof\D. G. Crudup & Co. alone, but in

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statemeut ot the Case.

stamping one of the fiotes the words were put on upside down,
(as the note showed;) and that, in restamping, they were put
over defendant's name also.
The defendant objected to the introduction of the notes in
evidence, and also moved to exclude the first one, but the
court overruled the objection and motion, and defendant
excepted.
It further appeared that the notes were discounted by the
bank in the due course of business, and that the bank had no
notice that Gordon signed them for the accommodaticu of
D. G. Crudup & Co., and was not informed thereof until about
a month after the notes matured, (demand of payment having
been previously made and refused,) when, in reply to one of
several letters urging payment, Gordon wrote that he signed
the notes for Crudup & Co.'s accommodation. The evidence
showed that July 30, 1887, D. G. Crudup & Co., Tabler,
Crudup & Co., and the Tabler Crudup Coal and Coke Co.,
the two partnerships being composed of D. G. Crudup and
J. H. Tabler, and the other a corporation created under the laws
of Tennessee, Crudup and Tabler owning nearly the entire
stock, made general assignments in one instrument for the
benefit of their 2espective creditors, the indebtedness to the.
Third National Bank, (including Gordon's notes,) placed at
$11,600, being scheduled among the liabilities of the Tabler,
Crudup Coal and Coke Co.
On September 2, 1887, a deed was given by Crudup's father,
of certain lots in Chattanooga, to one Richmond, who gave
back a defeasance declaring the property to be conveyed in
trust to secure an indebtedness to the Third National Bank of
Chattanooga of about $11,600 and interest, due from the Tabler, Crudup Coal and Coke Co., and D: G. Crudup & Co., and
that it was agreed that the real estate should be held for
twelve months, unless sooner sold by direction of D. G.
Crudup, and that, if the bank's debt was not then paid, the
lots should be sold in such manner as should be agreed on by
the bank and Crudup. Another assignment by D. G. Crudup,
D. G. Crudup & Co., and the Tabler Crudu Coal and Coke
Co., dated October 1, 1887, was also offered in evidence. This

GORDON1

v. THIRD NATIONAL BANK.
Statement of the Case.,

referred to the first assignment and recited that "neither of
the assignees had taken charge of the property assigned to
them, nor assumed to execute the trusts." The bank was not
included in the schedule of creditors. The trustees named in
the first assignment were Ewing and Baskett, and Ewing died
shortly after, while Baskett, who was the bank's cashier, declined to act as assignee. After the first assignment was made
the creditors had several meetings at which the bank was represented, either by Hart, its president, or Baskett, its cashier.
The court sustained an objection to testimony as to what
was done by the creditors at these metings, and to an offer to
prove that the creditors, including the bank, agreed that, as
the property conveyed by the assignment of July 30 was
more than sufficient to pay all the debts, and as they desired
to save the assignors all unnecessary expense, the property
conveyed by that assignment should be reconveyed to the
assignors, and that the latter should make other arrangements
for securing their creditors, which they did; and also excluded
all evidence as to what was done by the creditors under the
assignment of July 30, and as to a reconveyance by Baskett
to the assignors of the property conveyed by the assignment;
and also excluded the assignment of October 1, 1887. The
court ruled that what was said and done by the plaintiff in
connection with the other creditors in regard to the general
assignment, and in regard to reconveying the property and
agreeing totake other security, could not be proved in defence
unless it was shown, or could be shown, that the plaintiff either
agreed to extend the payment of the notes sued on or to forbear the enforcement of such payment for some -period of
time.
Crudup testified to a conversation with Hart in regard- to
securing the indebtedness and that Hart agreed to accept the
security of the three lots in Chattanooga, and to give twelve
months' time, and that he handed a copy of the defeasance of
Richmond to Hart or Baskett; that in the interview with
Hart the Gordon notes were not specifically referred to in
speaking of the matter of securing the indebtedness, and no
part of the indebtedness was; that there was no agreement

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

made with the bank other than as shown by the Richmond
defeasance; and that plaintiff had not sued Crudup & Co.
Hart testified that he never saw the deed to Richmond or
the defeasance until two days before the trial; that Crudup
said he would secure the bank with three lots for their indebtedness of $6500 or $6700, which did not include the Gordon
notes; that the bank never agreed to extend the Gordon notes
or any other notes of Crudup & Co. for twelve months, nor did
witness have any understanding or agreement with Crudup or
his attorney for the extension of the Gordon notes; that the indebtedness of -Crudup & Co., Tabler, Crudup & Co. and the
Coal and Coke Co., to the bank, amounted to $6500 or $6700;
not including the Gordon notes, which notes did not appear on
the books of the bank as part of the indebtedness of the two
firms and the corporation; that witness had no idea that the
Richmond transaction secured anything more than the $6500
indebtedness; that,Crudup did not deliver the deed or defeasance to witness nor to Baskett ; and that the bank looked alone,
as to the notes sued on, to their maker, Gordon.
The defendant requested the court to give to the jury the
following instruction: "The circumstance that no suit has
been brought by plaintiff against Crudup & Co., is such a circumstance as should be considered by the jury, in connection
with all the other evidence in the case, in determining whether
an agreement was made between the plaintiff and Crudup &
Co., by which an extension of time of payment of said notes
was given them." This instruction the court refused to give,
and the defendant duly excepted.
The jury found a verdict for plaintiff for the full amount
of the notes and interest, judgment was entered thereon, and
the cause brought to this court by writ of error.
.MP. T.
error.

. Young and Mr. Ailton Humes for plaintiff in

.M'. William Richardson, Mr.George T7. IFhite, -Mr. -F'ancis Ma-tin and Mr. David D. S'kelby for defendant in error.
MR.

CHIEF JusTIcE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

GORDON v. THIRD NATIONAL BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

Seventeen errors are assigned, of which those in relation to
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, to the admission of the
notes in evidence and to the rulings of the court in the exclusion of testimony, are relied on.
The question of jurisdiction is raised for the first time in
this court, and as we are of opinion that the diverse citizenship of the parties appears affirmatively and with sufficient
distinctness from the record, of which' the summons forms a
.part, we must decline to reverse the judgment on this ground,
although greater care should have been exercised by. the
plaintiff in the averments upon that subject.
Nor do we regard the stamping of the waiver and guarantee upon the back of the notes as altering them, so far as
Gordon was concerned, in a material particular, and thereby
rendering them inadmissible in evidence. Gordon was the
maker of the notes and had endorsed them simply to give
them negotiability. No waiver of demand -or protest was
necessary to hold him liable. It was put on the notes on account of Crudup & Co., the endorsers, and at their request,
and the mere inadvertence in placing the words above the
name of Gordon, as well as above that of Crudup & Co., on
the back.of one of the notes, had no effect upon Gordon's
rights.
This brings us to consider the main position taken in the
argument of counsel for plaintiff in error, that the court erred
in excluding evidence offered on his behalf. The contention
is that although the bank took the notes for value in ignorance
that they were accommodation paper, yet, after they matured,
the-bank was informed that such was the fact, and then extended the time of payment by agreement with Crudup & Co.
without Gordon's knowledge or consent, and also waived its
right to have the notes paid out of the property conveyed
under the deed of general assignment; and that this constituted a defence, which the excluded evidence tended to make
out. It is a sufficient answer to this contention, that there
was no evidence tending to show a contract of extension for
a valid consideration and for a definite and certain time, bindin- in law upon the parties and changing the nature of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

contract to the prejudice of Gordon. MoZemore v. Powell, 12
Wheat. 554; Creatk's Administrator v. Sims, 5 How. 192.
The hands of the bank were not tied by anything it had
done, and Gordon could have paid the notes and sought his
remedy against Orudup & Co. at any moment. The bank
did not know that the transaction with Richmond was made to
,include these notes; but -even were this otherwise, the defeasance did not amount to a contract of extension on its part.
Nor did the evidence tend to show any agreement between
Gordon and the bank that the latter would look to the assets
of the Crudup "concerns for payment, and a loss by reason of
laches on the bank's part.
The second assignment provided that the proceeds of the
property should be to a considerable extent differently applied
than under the first one, and the bank was not a party to it.
Crudup & Co. could not resume the title to their property, and
the first assignment was operative, notwithstanding the
death of one trustee and the declination of the other. And
in any view, there was no legal suspension of the right to proceed upon the notes which would have prevented Gordon, on
taking them up, from enforcing them: The evidence was
clearly immaterial and irrelevant and properly excluded; and,
as there was no error in the rulings of the court, the judgment
must be
Aff]rmed.

CAMDEN v. STUART.
STUART v. GREENBRIER WHITE SULPHUR
SPRINGS COMPANY
APPEAtS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
Nos. 159, 643. Submitted January 18, 1892.-Decided March 1, 1892.

The trust arising in favor of creditors by subscriptions to the stock of a
corporation cannot be defeated by a simulated payment of such sub-

