CROTTY v. UNIONT MUTUAL INS. CO.
Syllabus.

This case may be looked at in another light. The defence
pleaded in the Des Moines suit was, that at the time of the
issue of the two bonds then disclosed there was a prior indebtedness of the district exceeding the constitutional limitation;
and that defence was the one adjudged to be precluded by
the recitals. Here an additional defence is, that the five
bonds in suit themselves created an over-issue. That question
was not presented in the Des Moines suit, and could not have
been adjudicated. It is presented .for the first time in this
case. It is of itself a valid defence, irrespective of prior
indebtedness. So we have in .this case a new question not
'presented in the Des Mo[ines suit, the existence of facts never
called to the attention of the court in that case, which of
themselves create a perfect defence.
We see no error in the judgment, and it is

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAx dissented.

CROTTY v. UNION MUTUAL LIFE INSiRANCE
.COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. .24.

Argued March 28, 1892.- Decided April18, 1892.

A promise by the insurer in a polfcy of life insurance to pay the amount of
the policy on the death of ihe assured to I'M. C., his creditor, if living;"
if not then to the executors; etc. of the assured, is a promise ti pay to that
creditior,if he continues to be a creditor, and if not, then to the executors',
etc.; and in an action on the policy by the creditor, if sufficient time
elapsed between the making of the policy and the death of the assured
to -warrant an assumption that the debt may have been paid, it is incumbent on the plaintiff to prove the continuance of the relation and the
amount of the debt.
The fact that an insurance company does not object to answers made to
questions on a blank sent out by it for securing proof of the death of

OCTOBER TERMv,

1891.

Statement of the Case.
the assured, does not prevent it from challenging the truth of any statement in such answers.
Life Insurance Company v. Francisco,17 Wall. 672, distinguished from this
case.

ON January 31, 1883, defendant in error, defendant below,
insured the life of Michael -O'Brien. The language of the
policy was this: "Does promise Michael O'Brien, of Lockford
in the State of California to pay to said Michael O'Brien the
sum of ten thousand dollars (any indebtedness to the company
on account of this contract to be first deducted therefrom)
at the office of the company in Portland, Maine, on the fifteenth dak of January in the year nineteen hundred and
forty-one, or if said Michael Q'Brien shall die before that time,
to pay said sum within ninety days after notice and satisfactory proofs of death shall have been furnished to the company
at its said office, to Michael Crotty his creditor if living; if
not, then to the said Michael O'Brien's executors, administrators or assigns, upon the following conditions." On January
2, 1885, plaintiff in error, plaintiff below, commenced his action in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of California to recover on the policy. The complaint
contained these allegations:
"Third. That plaintiff was at the time of effecting said
policy of insurance, and at the time of the death of' said
Michael O'Brien, a creditor of said Michael O'Brien for various sums of money, which this plaintiff had at various times
advanced to the said Michael O'Brien, amounting to several
thousand dollars, and as such creditor had a valuable interest
in.
the life of said Michael O'Brien.
"Fourth. That on the 15th day of September, 1883, at the
city of Boston, State of Massachusetts, the said Michael
O'Brien died.
"Fifth. That on the 14th day of January, 1884, plaintiff
furnished the defendant with proof of the death of said
Michael O'Brien in this case, and otherwise performed all the
conditions of the said policy of insurance on his part."
The answer denied specifically that O'Brien was ever indebted to plaintiff, and denied that plaintiff ever performed

CROTTY v. UNION MUTUAL INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the conditions of. the policy, except by furnishing proofs of
the death of O'Brien. 'In the proofs of death,' which were
on a blank furnished by the insurance company, were these
questions and answers:. "3. In what capacity or in what title
do you make the claim? As creditor and beneficiary named
in the policy. 1T. If the claim is made under an assignment,
give the date, name of assignor and the consideration. The
claim by me as creditor of deceased and beneficiary named in
the policy." On the trial the only. evidence furnished by the
plaintiff of his interest in the policy was that contained in the
policy itself and in these two statements in the proofs of death.
The court instructed the jury to find a verdict for the defendant, to reverse which judgment plaintiff sued out this writ of
error
.ief. FredericD..Mo-Kenney for plaintiff in error.
2.. '. .

. Dlrummond for defendant in error.

M . JUsTIcE BREWER,

after stating the case, delivere& the

opinion of the court.
Without noticing other questions discussed by counsel, it is
sufficient to consider that of plaintiff's interest in the policy.
It is the settled law of this court that a claimant under a life
insurance policy must have an insurable interest in the life of
the insured. Wagering contracts in insurance have been
repeatedly denounced. Cammack v. Lewis, 15 Wall. 643, inwhich a policy of $3000, taken out to secure a debt of $70,
was aeclared "'a sheer wagering policy." Connecticut -M'utual
Life Isurance Co. v. Schaefer, 94: U. S. 457, 461, in which it
was said: "In cases where the insurance is effected merely by
way of indemnity, as where a creditor insures the life of his
debtor, for the purpose of securing his debt, the amount of
-insurable interest' Is the amount of the debt." Warnock v.
.Davis, 104 U. S. M75.
. Confessedly, plaintiff sues as a creditor of O'Brien. Within
the language quoted, the amount of his insurable inter'est was

OCTOBER TERTM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the amount of his debt; and the question is whether the
policy and the proofs of death contained sufficient evidence of
such ins.urable .interest. It is unnecessary to enter into the
disputed question, as to how far a policy of insurance taken
out by a creditor on the life of his debtor is affected by a
change in the relations between d&btor and creditor 'rior to
'the maturity of the policy; for here the contract was between
the insured, O'Brien, and the company; the promise of the
company was to him, and to pay to' him at the maturity of
the policy, with a proviso that if the insured died ,before the
end of the term payment should be made "to Michael Crotty,
his creditor, if living; if not, then to the said Michael
O'Brien's executors," etc. The words "if not" grammatically stand in antithesis to the words immediately prior, "1if
living;" and yet considering the purpose of the contract, and
the words which follow directly thereafter, it would seem not
unr~asonable that they'refer to a determination of the relation of creditor, and as though the language was, "1if not a
creditor, then to the said Michael O'Brien's executors," etc.
If a policy of insurance be taken out by a debtor on his own
life, naming a creditor as beneficiary, or with a subsequent
assigfiment to a creditor, the general doctrine is that on payment of the debt the creditor loses all interest therein, and
the policy becomes one for the benefit of *the.insured, and
collectible by his exectLtors or administrators. In 2 May on
Insurance (3d ed.,) sec. 459a, the author says: "A creditor's
claim upon the proceeds of insurance intended to secure the
debt should go no further than indemnity, and all beyond the
debt, premiums and expenses should go to the debtor and his
representatives, or remain with the company, according as
the insurance is upon life or on property." Centr"al Bank v.
Hrne, 128 U. S. 195, 205. But whatever doubts may exist
as to the law applicable to such cases, or the rights of action
on such a policy, the plaintiff in this case put, his own construction on the contract, and tendered an issue which was
accepted by the company. IHe alleged' that he was a creditor
at the time of the contract, and at the time of the death.
Uon the issue thus presented the case Ivent to-trial. The

OROTTY v. UNIONq MUTUAL INS. 00.
Opinion of the C6urt..

promise of the policy is to pay to Michael Orotty, his creditor,
if living; and it is contended that this is an ddmission on the
part of the company sufficient to justify a verdict *against it.,
Inf a admission at all, it is good only as an admission of the
date at which it was made, to wit, the date of the policy., The
relation of debtor and creditor is not - permanent, one, like
that of parent and child, but one which may vary from day
to day, changing both in fact 'andamount. according to the
successive business transactions .between the parties. So,
admission or proof that the relation of debtor and creditor
existed between two parties at one date is. not admission or
proof that months'thereafter the same relation and to the
same amount subsisted. If it were proven that the rela'tion
of debtor and cieditor existed at the date of. the'issuing of,
the policy,, and the beneficiary died the succeeding day, it
might be that the nearness Qf the two dates would carry with
it an inference that, the relation still subsisted; but it would'
not do to rest on the same inference when many months' had
intervened between the date of the policy and the time of
death.
Again, the indebthdness of O'Brien to plaintiff, if any existed,, was a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of plaintiff ; and if that indebtedness is an essential factor in his right
to recover, justice requires that lie should by affirmative testimony esdblish both the fact and the amount.
Still, again, not only does justice between the parties, but"
also that public policy which denounces wagering contracts, require that the proof of indebtedness sh6uld be,distinct and satisfactory. Itwould tend to a successful consummation of wag-'
ering contracts in insurance if the mere recital in the" policy
was held sufficient to sustain a recovery in favor of the
alleged creditor, no matter how long after the date of the
policy the death of -the insured happened. Adnijssidns,
whether direct or indidental, should, never be carried beyond
their actual extent, or the reasonable infoences therefrom,
and should not be invoked to work injustice to parties litigant
or thwart the demands of sound.public policy.
Neither can the stateinents of the plaintiff in his proofs of
VOL. ca
mrv-40

OCTOBER TERM. 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

death be considered evidence in his favor of the fact that he
is a creditor, or the amount of the debt. All that there is in
the proofs of death is his own statement, and surely a plaintiff
cannot make his sworn statements at another time and place
sufficient evidence, on a trial, of the existence of an essential
and disputed fact. These statements are evidence against the
claimant, and not against the insurance company. Insurance
Co. v. Newton, 22 Wall. 32. Nor is the fact that the proofs
-of death were received by the insurance company without
question an admission on its part of the truth of all the matters stated therein. The purpose of proofs of death in life
insurance and proofs of loss in fire insurance cases is to put
the insurance company in possession of the facts concerning
the: death or loss as claimed by the beneficiary or insured
upon which it is to base its determinationu as to making or
refusing payment, and when it receives such proofs without
question it is an admission on its part that they are in form
sufficient, but not that all the facts stated therein are true.
The policy in this case called for proofs of death; and the
company by its answer-admitted that satisfactory proofs had
been furnished. The fact that, in the blank it prepared and
sent to be filled out, it asked many questions which were
answered by the claimant, and the proofs thus made were
received without objection, did not prevent the company
from challenging in court the truth of any fact stated therein
essential to the plaintiff's right of recovery, and did not
amount to an admission on its part respecting such fact. The
case of Life Insurance Company v. Francisco,1 Wal. 672,
is cited by plaintiff as authority for a contrary view. There
is perhaps a sentence or two in the opinion- which, detached
from the rest, and considered apart from the facts of the case,
might justify the claim of plaintiff. That was a suit on a
conract of life insurance. The insured died before the policy
was actually issued. Ifit had been issued it would have contained a stipulation that "payment of the loss would be made
within ninety days after notice of the death, and due proof of
the just claim- of the assured." The beneficiary was the wife
of thd insured. On the trial the plaintiff offered evidence to

CROTTY v. UITOlNT

MUTUAL, INS. CO.

Opinion of the Court.

prove the contract and the death of her husband; that she
had filled up in thepresence of the company's agent the blank
forms which it had furnished, and-which were always used in
making proofs of death; and that he had received without
objection and retained them; but offered no evidence as to
the contents of those papers. She rested her case upon this
testimony, and the court refused an instruction that she could
not recover. This court held that such instruction was properly refused. Of course, as a wife, she had an insurable intekest. Proof of the contract and of her husband's death established the fact of her right to: recover, unless she had failed
to furnish due proofs of her just claims ; but as the company
received them without objection, and dfd n6t return them for
correction, it was properly held that they were sufficient. 'All
that was in . fact determined was that if the. .proofs were
retained Without objection the court could not dciame them
insufficient.
Further, in the case before us, the blank which was f.urnished to the plaintiff by the company, and upon which he
prepared the statements, contained this notice:
"This blank is furnished (upon application) for the convenience and assistance of the representatives of the insured, and
the company reserves the right to consider and determine the
question of its liability under any policy Without prejudice or
presumption by reason of the delivery hereof."
So the party had full information in advance that the company's right to challenge i#s liability would not be in any
manner prejudiced by the receipt of these proofs -of death, or
any statements therein.
We see no error in the ruling of the court below, and its
judgment is
A/flrmed.
Mr. JusTIcE GnA-Y was not present at the argument -and
took no part in the decision of this case.

