ROBERTSON v. SALOMON.
Syllabus.

of the above importations of laces of linen thread as were
made by hand, leaving the controversy only as to those laces
of linen thread which were made by machinery. All the
laces, whether made by hand or machinery, were known,
bought and sold as "trchons," and the issue presented was
whether or not machine-made torchons were dutiable as
" thread lace," or as " manufactures of flax, or of which flax
shall be the component material of chief value, not otherwise
provided for."
The articles were made wholly of linen thread, and, therefore, of flax. It clearly appeared by the- testimony of one of
the plaintiffs that he never heard the machine-made goods
bought and sold as thread laces, but invariably as "ttorchons."
The testhnony on the part of the defendant was to the same
effect, and showed that thread lace was always hand-made.
The defendant requested the court to direct a verdict in his
favor, while the plaintiffs claimed to go to the jury. A verdict for the defendant was. directed, and the plaintiffs excepted.
We do not think there was any question for the jury, on
the evidence.
________

Tudgment afflrmed.

IOBERTSON v. SALOMO1.
ERROR TO THE oIRcTrrr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRIOT OF NEW YORK.
No. 272. Argued April 4, 5, 1892.-Decided April 18, 1892.

Elastic webbings, used as gorings for shoes, some composed of worsted afid
india-rubber, and the rest of cotton, silk and india-rubber, imported in
March and June, 1884, were assessed with duties, the former as "gorings,"
at 30 cents per 'pound and 50 per cent ad valorem, under Schedule K of
§ 2502 of Title 33 of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by § 6 of the act
of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 509, and the latter -at 35 per cent ad
valorem, as "webbing, composed of uotton, flax or any other materials,
not specially enumerated or provided for in this act," under Schedule N
of the" same section. Id. 514. The importers claimed that they were
dutiable at 30 per cent ad valorem under said Schedule N, (Id. 513,) as

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

"india-rubber fabrics, composed wholly or in part of india-rubber, not
specially enumerated or provided for in this act." Held, that the assessment of duties, as made, was correct.
"Goring" and " gorings" make their first appearance in the act of March
3, 1883.
The cases of Davies v. Arthur, 96 U. S. 135, and Beard v. Nichols, 120 U. S.
260, do not control the present case.
The Circuit Court erred in not submitting to the jury the question whether
the goods were or were not known in this country, in trade and commerce, under the. specific name of goring, and in directing a verdict for
the plaintiffs.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
3r'. Asistant Attorney General Parmer for plaintiff in
error.
_Mr. Edwin B. Smith (with whom was Mr.
Clarke on the brief) for defendants in error.
MRi.

JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

phken G.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law, brought October 15, 1884, in the
Superior Court of the city of New York, by Bernard J.
Salomon and Samuel Mendel Phillips against William H.
Robertson, late collector of the port of New York, to recover
an alleged excess of duties, amounting to $288.20, on certain
goods imported into that port in March and June, 1884. The
case was removed by the defendant, by certiorari, into the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York, and was tried there, before a jury, in January,
1888. There was a verdict for the plaintiffs, for $157.08 as to
certain of the goods, and for the defendant as to certain others
of them; whereupon a judgment was entered for the plaintiffs
for $157.08 damages, $46.85 costs, and $6.67 interest, making
in all 8210.60. To review that judgment, the defendant has
sued out a writ of error.
The goods in question were invoiced as "elastic webbings.'Some of them were composed of worsted and india-rubber,
and the remainder of cotton, silk and india-rubber. The col-

ROBERTSOIN v. SALOMON.
Opinion of the Court.

lector assessed duties on the worsted and rubber goods at the
rate of 30 cents per pound and 50 per cent ad valorem, and on
the cotton, silk and rubber goods at the rate of 35 per cent ad
valorem. The plaintiffs paid such duties under a protest, which
stated the grounds of their dissatisfaction to be "that under
existing laws, and particularly by Schedule N of the tariff act
of March 3, 1883, said goods were liable at no more than 30
per cent ad valorem, as fabrics in part india-rubber, not otherwise specially enumerated or provided for." The duties
claimed to have been levied and paid in excess of the lawful
rate amounted, with interest, in the case of the worsted and
rubber goods, to $125.04, and in the case of the cotton, silk
and rubber goods to $32.0.,
The bill of exceptions states as follows: "To further sustain
the issue upon their part, the plaintiffs called witnesses who
testified substantially that the goods in question are used to
insert in the upper part of shoes and gaiters; that the rubber
is an essential part of the article; and that it could not be used
for the purpose for which it is intended without rubber. That
it is sometimes known as elastic webbings, and that it is also
known under the name of elastic goring. That there are
webbings in which rubber is not a component part. That
there are many kinds of webbings, such as surgical webbings,
suspender webbings and upholstery webings. That all narrow woven fabrics are considered webbings. That the articles
in question in this action were woven on the loom. That web bings are always woven on the loom."
The defendant put in evidence which tended, f(> show that
the elastic webbing in controversy was bought and invoiced
as "elastic webbing," but was sold in the market in the United
States as "goring;" that the general trade name for it in the
United States was "goring; " that it was never made on braiding machines or by hand ;that "elastic webbing" was a term
known in trade and commerce in the United States prior to
1883, applicable to goods like the plaintiff's importation; that
the term "elastic webbing," applied to goods like those in
question, had been known in trade and commerce, as the foreign name, since and prior to 1S83, in and among importers

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

and large dealers, but that "goring" was the American name,
and the article was so called because it was used to make
gores of, and formed the goring of a Congress shoe; and that
the shoe manufacturer called them gores. It was also admitted
at the trial, that all the testimony contained in the bill of exceptions as to trade designation and use was likewise true immediately prior to and on March 3, 1883.
At the close of the case, the defendant moved the court to
direct a verdict for him, upon the general ground that the
plaintiffs had not established thei, contention, and specifically
as to the goods composed of worsted and rubber, that it
appeared from the testimony that they were known in this
country under the specific name of "goring;" and that,
especially since the word "goring" was inserted first into the
worsted clause by the act of March 3, 1883, it more specifically
described the goods in question than "fabrics in part of indiarubber." That motion was denied by the court, and the
defendant excepted.
The defendant then asked to have submitted to the jury
the question whether or not the merchandise composed of
worsted and rubber was known in trade and commerce, and
among large dealers in this country, under the name of "goring;." which motion was denied by the court, and the defendant excepted.
The court then directed a verdict for the plaintiffs for the
respective amounts sought to be recovered by them. To this
ruling the defendant excepted.
At the time the goods in question were imported, they
were subject to, duty under § 2502 of Title 33 of the Revised
Statutes, as enacted by § 6 of the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121,
22 Stat. 488.
Schedule I, "Cotton and Cotton Goods," of § 2502, provided
as follows (p. 506) in regard to duties: "Cotton cords, braids,
gimps, galloons, webbing, goring, suspenders, braces, and all
manufactures of cotton, not specially enumerated or provided
for in this act, and corsets, of whatever material composed,
thirty-five per centum ad valorem."
Schedule K, "Wool and Woollens," (p. 509): "Webbings,

ROBERTSON v. SALOMON.
Opinion of the Court.

gorings, suspenders, braces, beltings, bindings, braids, galloons, fringes, gimps, cords and tassels, dress trimmings, head
nets, buttons, or barrel buttons, or buttons of othe forms fortassels or ornaments, wrought by hand, or braided by machinery, made of wool, worsted, the hair of the alpaca, goat,. or
other animals, or of which wool, worsted, the hair of the alpaca,
goat, or other animals is a component material, thirty cents per
pound, and in addition thereto, fifty per centum ad valorem."
Schedule N, "Sundries," (p. 511) : "Webbing, composed of
cotton, flax, or any other materials, not specially enumerated
or provided for in this act, thirty-five per centum ad valoAnd the same schedule, (p. 513): "India-rubber fabrics,
composed wholly or in part of india-rubber, not specially
enumerated, or provided for in this act, thirty per centum ad
valorem. Articles composed of india-rubber, not specially
enumerated, or provided for in this act, twenty-five per
centum ad valorem."
The collector levied on the goods composed of worsted and
india-rubber 30 cents per pound and, in addition thereto, 50
per cent ad valorem, and on those composed of cotton, silk
and india-rubber 35 per cent ad valorem.
The plaintiffs claimed that the goods were india-rubber
fabrics, composed wholly or in part of india-rubber, not specially enumerated -or provided for in the act, and, therefore,
subject to a duty of oiily 30 per cent .advalor.m.
We are of opinion that the judgment must be reversed. It
appears- distinctly that the goods in question were used to insert in the upper part of shoes or gaiters, and that, while each
of the two kinds was called "webbing," it was also known as
"goring." The worsted and india-rubber article was dutiable
as webbing or as goring, at 30 cents per pound and, in addition, 50 per cent ad valorem; while the cotton, silk and
india-rubber article was dutiable as webbing composed of cotton or any other materials not specially enumerated or provided for in the act, at 35 per cent ad.valorem.
It is very clear that the words "goring" and "gorings"
make their first appearance in the act of March 3, 1883; and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

their insertion in that act must have had reference not merely
to their absence from previous statutes, but in conne~tion with
such absence, to the construction which this, court had put
upon prior statutes in which those words did not appear, in
reference to the duties leviable on articles of the character of
those in question in this suit. Although the goods in question
were composed wholly or in part of india-rubber, those composed of worsted and india-rubber were specially enumerated
or provided for as "gorings," under Schedule K; and those
composed of cotton, silk and india-rubber were specially enumerated and provided for in Schedule N, as "webbing, composed of cotton, flax or any other materials;" and all of them,
therefore, were excepted from the 30 per cent duty imposed
on india-rubber fabrics by Schedule N.
The cases of A'rth dr v. Davies, 96 U. S. 135, in 1877, in regard to goods imported in 1873, and of Beard v. Nichols, 120
U. S. 260, in regard to goods imported in 1878 and 1879, relied
upon by the plaintiffs, do not control the present case.
In Arthur v. Davies, the articles in question were suspenders or braces, made of india-rubber, cotton and silk, cotton
being the component material of chief value, and suspenders
or braces made of india-rubber, cotton and silk, cotton being the component material of chief value, a few threads of
silk being introduced for purposes of ornament. It was held
that the goods were dutiable under § 22 of the act of March
2, 1861, (12 Stat. 191,) which imposed a duty of 30 per cent
on "braces, suspenders, webbing or other fabrics, composed
wholly or in part of india-rubber, not otherNyise provided for,"
and to an additional duty of 5 per cent ad valorem imposed
on the same articles by § 13 of the act of July 14, 1862, (12
Stat. 556,) and not to a duty of 50 per cent ad valorem, imposed by § 8 of the same act, (12 Stat. 552,) "on manufactures
of india-rubber and silk, or of india-rubber and silk and other
materials." This was held on the ground that, if the articles
were technically and commercially braces and suspenders,
composed in part of india-rubber, they took their dutiable
character from that source.In Beard v. NVichols, the goods were webbing made of

R OBERTSON' v. SALO O .
Opinion of the Court.

india-rubber, wool and cotton, and were used for gores in
making Congress boots, and without the rubber would not
have been adapted to that use. They were not wrought by
hand nor braided by machinery, but were woven in a loom,
and appear to have been substantially like the goods in question in the present case, made of worsted and india-rubber.
They were held to be dutiable at 35 per cent ad valorem,
under § 2504 of the Revised Statutes, Schedule M, "Sundries,"
(p. 477,) which imposed that rate of duty on "braces, suspenders, webbing or other fabrics, composed wholly or in part of
india-rubber, not otherwise provided for;" and not to a duty
of 50 cents per pound and, in addition thereto, 50 per cent ad
valorem., under Schedule L of § 2504, "Wool and woollen
goods," (p. 472,) as "webbings" of which wool or worsted was
a component material. That decision was pfit' upon the
ground on which it is there stated that the decision in Arrthur
v. .Davies had been put, namely, that ever since 1842, webbing
composed wholly or in part of india-rubber had been a subject
of duty eo nomine.
But the act of March 3, 1883, does not impose a duty on
"webbing composed wholly or in part of india-rubber," as
did subdivision 10 of § 5 of the act of August 30, 1842, (5
Stat. 555,) and as did Schedulc 0 of § 11 of the act of July
30, 1846, (9 Stat. 44,) and as did § 22 of the act of March 2,
1861 (12 Stat. 191,) and as did § 13 of the act of July 14, 1862,
(12 Stat. 556).
By the act of March 3, 1883, Schedule K, a duty is imposed
on webbings and gorings of.which wool or worsted is a component material, without reference to the fact whether the
article contains india-rubber or not; and by Schedule N of
the same act a duty is imposed on webbing composed of cotton, flax or any other. materials, without reference to the fact
whether it contains india-rubber or not.
We hre of opinion that the goods composed of worsted and
india-rubber were dutiable as gorings at 30 cents per pound
and, in addition thereto, 50 per cent ad valorem, if they were
known in this country, in trade and commerce, under the
specific name of goring; that, whether they were or not so
VOL. CXLrV-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

known was, on the evidence, a question for the jury; that the
court erred in not submitting that question to the jury; that
the goods composed of cotton, silk and india-rubber were subject. to a duty of 35 per cent ad valorem; and that the ourt
erred'in directing a verdict for the plaintiffs.
The judgment is
Reversed, with a directionto grant a new trial,and to take
fvther proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

NESBIT v. RIVERSIDE

INDEPENDENT DISTRICT.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 212.

Submitted March 15, 1892. -Decided April 18, 1892.

When the constitution of a State forbids "county, political or other municipal corporations" within the State to "become indebted in any manner"
beyond a named percentage "on the value of the taxable prqperty within
such county or corporation," negotiable .bonds issued by such corporation in excess of such limit are invalid without regard to any recitals
which they contain.
A holder of such bonds for value, is bound to take notice of the amount of
the taxable property within the municipality at the date of their issue, as
shown by the tax list, and is charged with knowledge of the over-issue.
When a second suit is upon the same cause of'action, and between the
same parties as a former suit, the judgment in the former is conclusive
in the latter as to every question which was or might have been presented
and determined in the first action; but when the second suit is upon a
different cause of action, though between the same parties, the judgment
in the former action operates as an estoppel only as to the point or. question actually litigated and determined, and not as to other matters which
might have beenlitigated and determined.
Each matured coupon upon a negotiable bond is a separable promise, distinct from the promises to pay the bonid or the other coupons, and gives
rise to a separate cause of action.
A judgment against a municipal corporation in an actibn on coupons cut
from its negotiable bonds, where the only aefence set up was the invalidity of the issue of the bonds by reason of their being in excess of the
amount allowed by law, is no estoppel to another action between the
same parties, on the bonds themselves and other coupons cut from them,
where the defence set up is such invalidity, coupled with knowledge of
the same by the plaintiff when he acquired the bonds and coupons.

