LACASSAG-E v. CHAPUIS.
Opinion of the Court.

by this court in Tilghman v. Proctor, 125 U. S. 136, and
approved in Callaghian v. .Myers, 128 U. S. 611, 666, and in
Kimberly v. Arms, 129 U. S. 512. See also Dean v. Emerson, 102 Mlass. 480; .McDonough v. 0'NLeil, 113 Mass. 92. We
see no reason for departing from it, and think this- is a proper
case for its application.
Upon the whole, .we agree with the Circuit Court upon the
points involved in these appeals, and the decree of that court
-Afrmed.

is therefore

LACASSAGNE v. CIAPUIS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 188. Submitted March 1, 1892.-

STATES FOR

Decided March 21, 1892.

Under a writ of possession, on a judgment entered in January, 1886, in a suit
brought in a Circuit Court of the United States by C. against Al. in March,
1884, L. was evicted from land, and the agent of C. was put in possession.
L. was in possession under a sheriff's deed made in August, 1885, under
proceedings in another suit against M. L. brought a suit in equity, in the
same Circuit Court, in April, 1886, against F. as testamentary executor, of
C. and individually, to have the suit of C. declared a nullity, for want of
jurisdiction, and because L. was not a party to it, and for an injunction
restraining F. and the agent of C. from molestihg L. in the possession of
the land. On demurrer to the bill: Held,
(1) The case was not one for a suit in equity;
(2) The possession of L. was that of M.; and L. as a purchaser pendente
lite, was subject to the operation of the writ of possession;
(3) The proper decree was to dismiss the bill, without- prejudice to an
action at law.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.A1r.Aylfed Goldthwaite for appellant.
.r.

A. H. Leonard and Mr. Yorris i a'rks for appellee.

MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity brought by a -bill filed April 15,
1886, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

District of Louisiana, by Laurent Lacassagne, a citizen of
France, against Frangois Ohapuis, a citizen of Switzerland,
in his capacity of testamentary executor of Jeanne Caroline
Cav6 Oavailhez (hereinafter called the widow Cavr) and in
his individual capacity.
The subpoena was served on the
defendant in person, at New Orleans, Louisiana, May 5, 1886,
and he, as such testamentary executor and individually, appeared and put in a demurrer to the bill. The demurrer
was sustained, and a decree was entered dismissing the bill,
from which decree the plaintiff has appealed to this court.
The contents of the bill are as follows: The plaintiff is the
owner of a plantation situated in the parish of Vermilion, Louisiana, on the east side of Bayou Vermilion, having a front of
10 arpents by 40 arpents in depth, with the buildings and improvements thereon, and the plantation equipment. He acquired the ownership of the property, with Albert G. Maxwell,
in judicial proceedings prosecuted in the District Court for the
parish of Vermilion, in the suit of Albert G. Xax]rwell v. Xarceline Cavailhez, and by sheriff's deed signed by the sheriff of
the parish, dated August 15, 1885. The plaintiff acquired the
interest of Maxwell in the property by act of sale, October 22,
1885, and thereby the whole of the plantation became his
property. The widow Cave, allcging herself to be a citizen of
France, and to be the widow of Baptiste Cavailhez, deceased,
on or about March 5, 1884, instituted a suit in equity in the
same Circuit Court of the United States, wherein she was
cdmplainant, and Marceline Cavailhez, widow of C. IR. Remick, in her own right and as tutrix of her four minor children,
named Remick, and as tutrix administering the estate of said
C. H. Remick, was defendant. In that suit,-the widow Cav6
claimed, as the widow in community of Baptiste Cavailhez, to
be the owner, of one undivided half interest in said plantation,
and that the other undivided one-half interest therein was b'rdened with a tacit mortgage to secure $5310 paraphernal
property, due her by the succession of Baptiste Cavailhez.
The prayer- of the bill in that suit was, that the plantation
be decreed to be still the property "1in indivision" of the estate
of Baptiste Cavailhez; that the widow Cav6 be recognized.as

LACASSAGINE v. C]iAPUIS.
Opinion of the Court.

the owner of one undivided half of the plantation, and as a
mortgage creditor of Baptiste Oavailhez, in the.sum of $5310,
with legal interest from judicial demand, on the undivided half
of the plantation belonging to Baptiste Oavailhez; and that
process issue against Marceline Oavailhez, widow of C. H.
Remick, in her individual capacity, and as tutrix of her minor
children, and as tutrix administering the estate of said Remick; but the bill in the suit by the widow Oav6 nowhere
averred that Marceline Oavailhez was in possession of the
plantation when the suit was brought, either for herself individually, or as tutrix as aforesaid, or by agent or employ6:
The plaintiff and Maxwell were mortgage creditors of Marceline Cavailhez, and their mortgage was duly recorded in the
mortgage office of the parish of Vermilion at Ithe time, and
before the suit brought by the widow Oave against Marceline
Cavailhez was instituted; the recording operated as notice to
the widow Oav6 and all the world; and no right or interest of
the plaintiff or of Maxwell could be passed on in that suit, or
be affected by the decree therein made, without their- being
made parties to the suit.
The cofrt was without jurisdiction to entertain that suit;
the widow Oav6 was not a citizen of France, as she falsely
alleged herself to be, to give the court jurisdiction of- the parties, but was a citizen of Louisiana, residing at New Orleans;
a fraud was practised on the court; and the proceedings were
null and void, and should be so decreed to be.The judgment rendered in that suit, on January 11, 1886,
decreed that the widow Cav be "recognized as the lawful
widow of Baptiste Cavailhez," and as such "entitled to and
decreed to be the owner of the undivided half of all the property above described," including with other property the said
plantation and its paraphernalia; that she have judgment"
against the estate of Baptiste Oavailhez in the sum of $5310,
with legal interest from February 25, 1884; and that her
mortgage to secure said sum and interest, on the property of
Baptiste Oavailhez, to- take effect from April 13, 1863, be recognized and enforced. On the 2d of February, 1886, a petition was presented to the court for a writ of possession under

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

said decree, and was granted, and a writ of possession was
issued to the marshal, by which he was ordered to eject Marceline Cavailhez and those who might be holding said property
under her, "by private deed of transfer or otherwise, since the
institution of the aforesaid suit, to wit, March 5, 1884, and
during the pendency of said suit," and to put the widow Cav6
in full possession of said property. Said writ was not warranted by the decree, was issued improvidently and upon a
wrongful suggestion, and was null and void. It was executed
on February 5, 1886, "by serving the writ and copy of judgment" on one Armintor, "who was living in the house and
had charge of the property, and he being a major," and the
,return of the marshal, filed February 10, 1886, states that he
took possession of the plantation and improvements, and then
placed them in the possession of one Brulard, as the agent of
the widow Cave.
The plaintiff Lacassagne was in possession of the plantation,
as owner, by his laborers, -servants, and employ~s, when the
marshal pretended to execute the writ. :Brulard came upon the
plantation, and now occupies a portion of the dwelling thereon,
but the carpenters and laborers thereon have been continuously
and still are in the service and pay of the plaintiff. He is deterred from going upon the plantation and exercising his rights
of ownership, by the violence and threats of Brulard. The
plaintiff claims to be in possession, though his possession is disturbed and interfered with by Brulard, acting under direction
of, and advice from, the defendant.
The plaintiff has not been a party to any suit, and is not
bound by any order of a court until he has an opportunity to
be heard. Though the acts were in the name of the widow
Cav6, yet the plaintiff charges that she was instigated to do
all that she did by the defendant. Brulard is an agent, and
under the control of the defendant, and of the court. The
whole proceeding was void for want of jurisdiction of the parties. The plantation is deteriorating 'in value, and the season
for planting and preparing for crop's ispassing, and irreparable
injury is being done to the plaintiff. An injunction _pendente
lite is necessary to restrain the defendant, as testamentary

-LACASSAGNE v. CHAPUIS.
Opinion of the Court.

executor and individually, and his agents and employ~s, from
interfering with the possession of the plaintiff or molesting
him or his agents and servants on the plantation. A restraining order ought to issue, pending the motion for an injunction,
and the injunction be made perpetual on a final hearing. The
plaintiff is without a full, complete and adequate remedy at
law, and must resort to a court of equity to have his rights
determined and secured.
The prayer of the bill is, that the suit so brought by.the
widow Cav6 be declared an absolute nullity, because there was
no jurisdiction in the court over the parties; that, in case said
suit was properly brought between the parties thereto, it be
decreed to have no force or effect against the plaintiff herein,
he not having been a party to it, and the decree not operating
against him; that the writ of possession be decreed to be void;
and the possession of Brulard illegal, and Brulard advised to
vacate the premises occupied by him on the plantation; that
an injunction issue, to be made perpetual at the final hearing,
commanding the defendant, testamentary executor and individually, his agents, servants and employ6s generally, and
Brulard in particular, to desist from interfering with or molesting the plaintiff in the possession of the plantation, or
his laborers, servants and employ6s; that a restraining order
issue, pending the motion for an injunction; and for general
relief and process.
The demurrer of thi defendant, as testamentary executor
and individually, alleges, as cause of demurrer, a want of
equity in the bill.
We are of opinion that the decree must be affirmed. The
suit by the widow Cav6 was brought in March, 1884. The deed
of the plantation from the sheriff to the plaintiff and Maxwell
was dated August 15, 1885. That deed was given in judicial
proceedings brought by Maxwell against Marceline Cavailhez, widow of 0. It. Remick. The title of Maxwell and the
plaintiff was acquired during the pendency of the suit brought
by the widow Cav6. The marshal properly executed the
writ of possession and put the property into the possession of
Brulard, as the6 agent of the widow Cave, and such possession

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

was held by Brulard when the present suit was instituted' by
the plaintiff. The plaintiff was out of possession when he instituted this suit; and by the prayer of this bill he attempts
to regain possession by means of the injunction asked for. In
other words, the effort is to restore the plaintiff, by injunction,
to rights of which he had been deprived. The function of an
injunction is to afford preventive relief, not to redress alleged
wrongs which have been committed already. An injunction
will not be used to take property out of the possession of one
party and put it into that of another. 1 High on Injunctions,
2d ed. ยง 355.
The question here involved is a dispute about title. The
plaintiff has a full, adequate and complete remedy at law, and
the case is not one for the jurisdiction of a court of equity. If
the plaintiff was in the possession of the plantation when the
judgment in favor of the widow Cav6 was rendered, on January 11, 1886, and when the marshal executed the writ of possession on February 5, 1886, it does not follow that the fact
that he was not a party to the suit in which it was issued,
could prevent his being evicted under the writ of possession.
A pending suit in regard to real estate is notice to all the
world. During the pendency of the suit brought by the widow
Oav6 against Marceline Cavailhez, the plaintiff undertook to
acquire rights in the plantation under Marceline Cavailhez, by
the sheriff's deed, to the prejudice of the widow Cav6; and
his possession, so far as it affected the latter, was the possession of Marceline Cavailhez, and the writ was properly issued
and executed. It is provided as follows by the civil code of
Louisiana, (art. 2453:) "The thing claimed as the property of
the claimant cannot be alienated pending the action, so as to
prejudice his right. If judgment be rendered for him, the
case is considered as a sale of another's property and does not
prevent him from being put in possession by virtue of such
judgment."
As the plaintiff was evicted and" the plantation was put into
the possession of the widow Cav6, a court of equity cannot give
the plaintiff any relief, until he has established his title by an
action at law. Under the jurisprudence of Louisiana, the

LACASSAGNE v. CHAPUIS.
Opinion of the Court.

claim of the plaintiff is a "third opposition." By the Code of
Practice of Louisiana, (art. 401,) a third opposition is defined
as "a demand brought by a person not originally a party in
the suit, for the purpose of arresting the execution of an order
of seizure or judgment rendered in such suit, or to regulate
the effect of such seizure in what reldtes to him." It is a suit
at law, a short, summary proceeding, and not a formal one in
chancery. Code of Practice, art. 298;
an .Yorden v.- 3oron,
99 U. S. 378, 381.
It is well settled, in regard to land, that, when a suit is
pending in regard to it, a person who purchases under the defendant yendente lite is subject to the operation of a writ of
possession if one is finally issued on a judgment in the suit.
Walden v. Bodley, 9 How. 34, 49; Terrell v. Allison, 21 Wall.
289; Tilton v. Cofwld, 93 U. S. 163; County of Warren v.
Maroy, 97 U. S. 96, 105; Union Trust Co. v. Southern 2Tavigation Co., 130 U. S. 565, 570, 571; Xkellen v. .2oline Iron
Works, 131 U. S. 352, 371.
The fact that the plaintiff and Maxwell were mortgage
creditors of']Marceline Cavailhez, and that their mortgage was
duly recorded in the mortgage office of the parish, before the
suit brought by the widow Cav6 was instituted, is of no consequence, so far as the present suit is concerned. If the rights
of the plaintiff or those of Maxwell under that mortgage
could not be affected by the decree made in the suit brought
by the widow Cavd, because they were not made parties to
that suit, the result is simply that the decree in that suit had
no effect upon their rights under the mortgage. But that fact
has no bearing upon the matters sought to be litigated in the
present suit. The mortgage, if valid, still remains valid, and
lawful proceedings can be had upon i:,
subject to such defences
as may be interposed in regard to it. If the title of the widow
Cav6 to the plantation, under the suit brought by her, is subject to the rights of the plaintiff under-the mortgage executed
by Marceline Cavailhez, this bill in the nature of a bill of review is not the proper mode of'enforcing the rights under that
mortgage. The widow. Cav6 was not bound to make the
plaintiff or Maxwell, as mortgage creditors of -Marceline

OCTOBER TERMit, 1891.
Syllabus.

Cavailhez, parties to the suit she brought, and their rights as
such creditors were not affected by the decree in that suit.
As to the allegation in the bill that the court was without
jurisdiction of the suit brought by the widow Cav6, because
she alleged falsely therein that she was a citizen of France,
when in fact she was a citizen of Louisiana, and thus the court
had no jurisdiction of the suit as between her and Marceline
Cavailhez, that question cannot be raised and adjudicated in
this suit. By the record of the former suit, there appeared to
be jurisdiction, and the plaintiff cannot question it by means of
this suit, when the question is not raised by Marceline Cavailhez, who was the defendant in the former suit.
Although the present suit is one between two aliens, yet inasmuch as it is brought in the same Circuit Court in which the
former decree was rendered, and to impeach that decree, we
think that the court had jurisdiction. That being so, it had
authority to make a decree on the merits.
The decree dismissing the bill absolutely must be so modified as to declare that it is without prejudice to an action at
law, and, as so modified, it is affirmed, with costs. HorgSnrg
v. Baker, 1 Pet. 232; Barney v. Baltimore City, 6 Wall.
9,80; Kendig v. Dean, 97 U. S. 423; Rogers v. Durant,106
U. S. 644; Scott v. .Neely, 140 U. S. 106, 117.
-Decreea/rmed as modiyed.

TRIPP v. SANTA ROSA STREET RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 197.-

Submitted March 9, 1892. -Decided

March 21, 1892.

Service of citation by a plaintiff in error upon the defendant in error by
depositing in the post-office a copy of the same, postage paid, addressed
to the attorney of the defendant in error at his place of abode, is an insufficient service.
The decision of the Supreme Court of a State in a case in' which applica-

