OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

And by the express terms of §§ 94, 96, above cited, an objection that the court has no jurisdiction, either of the person of
the defendant or of the subject of the action, may be taken
by demurrer, if it appears on the face of the petition, and by
answer, if it does not so appear.
The necessary qonsequence is that the allegation of the
citizenship of the parties, being a material allegation properly
made in the petition, was put in issue by the answer, and, like
other affirmative and material allegations made by the plaintiff and denied by the defendant, must be proved by the'
plaintiff. The record showing no proof or finding upon this
essential point, on which the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
depended, the judgment must be reversed, with costs, for
want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, and the case remanded to that court, which may, in its discretion, either
dismiss the action for want of jurisdiction, or set aside the
verdict and permit the plaintiff to offer evidence of the citizenship of the parties. Continetal Ins. Co. v. R/hoads, 119
U. S. 237.
Judgment 'reversed,and case remanded to the Circuit Court
for further proceedingsin accordancewith the opinion of
this court.

KENDALL -v. SAN JUAN SILVER MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 294.

Submitted April 13, 1892. -Decided

April 25, 1892.

Intrusion upon and location of a mining claim within the territory set apart
by the treaty proclaimed November 4, 1868, for the exclusive use and
occupancy of the confederated bands of Ute Indians, was forbidden
thereby, and was inoperative to confer any rights upon the plaintiffs.
Location of the same premises by others after extinguishment of the
Indian title, and prior to relocation of the former prohibited claim, gave
the right of possession.
The failure of the plaintiffs to record their location after extinguishment of
such Indian title within the period prescribed by the laws of Colorado,

KENDALL v. SAN JUAN MINING CO.
Statement of the Case.
and until long after the premises had been properly located by others,
forbids their claim.of -priority based upon a wrongful entry during the
existence of the Indian Reservation.
.Noonan v. CalecloniaMining Co., 121 U. S. 393, cited and distinguished.

THis action was brought in a District Court of Colorado to
recover possession of a tract of mineral land, -a part of what
was known as the "Bear Lode." The plaintiffs claimed uhder
a location made September 3, 1872. The land so located was
at that time within the territory reserved for the use and occupancy of the Ute Indians. The Indian title was extinguished
in March, 1874, and the defendant claimed under a location'
made August 29, 1874. The case was submitted on the pleadings and the following stipulation.
"The following stipulation is agreed upon by and between
the parties, and testimony relating to the matters herein
referred to is waived and may be dispensed with upon the
hearing and trial.
"I. It is admitted that the' Bear' lode was- located Sept.
3rd, 1872, And was duly recorded as stated in the complaint.
It is admitted by the defendant that all the averments in paragraph II f the complaint are true, excepting the averment
that the Bear Lode mifning claim was at the date of its -location 'a part of the publio Oomain of the United States and
unoccupied & unclaimed by any person and was open to entry
as mineral lands; ' and excepting, further, that if the locators
of the Bear lode were entitled to make any such location whatever of said .premises or any part thereof they were not entitled on Sept. 3rd, 1872, or any time prior to June 15th, 1874,
to locate, a claim exceeding fifty (50) feet in width, and defend-:
ant therefore denies that plaintiffs are entitled to more, than
50 feet in width, if they are entitled to anything.
"It is further admitted that an additional certificate of
location was *filed,as stated, in paragraph 5 of the complaint.
"It is also admitted that the plaintiffs are the proper persons
to maintain this'suit, and proof of chain of title and production
of conveyances and records is dispensed with.
"It is further admitted that the allegations contained -in
paragraph 9 of plaifitiffs' complaint are true.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

"II. It is further admitted that on the 29th day of August,
1874, A. H. Kallenberg, W. H. Wallace and J. G. Jackson located the 'Titusville' lode, and plaintiffs admit that all
the matters and things stated in paragraph 1 of second defence
and answer are true; excepting the statement that said Ipremises was then (Aug. 29th, 1874) a part and parcel of the unoccupied and unappropriated public domain of the United States,'
which last averment plaintiffs do not admit.
"It is further admitted that since the respective locations of
said ' Bear' and 'Titusville' lodes each of the claimants and
their grantors have duly done and performed the annual
assessment work, and neither party shall be required to introduce testimony relating to the annual expenditures required
by law.
"It is further agreed that the defendant named is the proper
party defendant in this action, and that no proof of its chain
of title to the ITitusville' lode or the production of conveyances or records showing such title shall be required."
Judgment for' the defendant, which was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State. To the latter judgment this
writ of error was sued out.
A.D.

_JY. E. T. Wells, .fir. R. T. Zel~eal and
lor for plaintiffs in -error.

r1. oTohla G. Tay-

The only question to be determined by this court is the one
presented by the stipulation of counsel filed in the District
Court, i.e. where citizens, having located or attempted to locate
a mining claim on an Indian reservation, and in that connection
performed all the acts requisite to a legal appropriation of the
ground were the same unoccupied public domain, do their
continued possession after the Indian title is extinguished, and
their maintenance and adoption of such prior location validate
the same as against others seeking to appropriate the premises?
If the answer be in the affirmative, the plaintiffs in error are
entitled to hold the ground in controversy against the defendants in error. They made the Bear location when it is conceded by every one that the ground was not open to entry or

KENDALL v. SAN JUAN MITNING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

occupation; still they posted -the discovery notide as the law
required, they marked the boundary of the, claim by putting
substantial posts and land marks at each corner, and in the
centre of the side lines as the law required; they performed
the annual expenditures as the'law required, and filed the loca-tion certificate with the clerk and recorder of the county in
which the claim was situated as the law required.
In June, 1874, when this land was ceded to the government,
and by it thrown open to exploration, use and enjoyment
by its citizens, these plaijntiffs were in possession of the same,
working upon it and developing it and enjoying its -fruits,
maintaining and adopting the boundaries they had previously
established in every particular, occupying it with all the indicia
intact to evidence a mining location. They subsequently filed
the certificate -required in case of an original location. This
was sufficient to entitle them to hold this. ground. as against
the defendants. The fact of their remaining in possession,
and maintaining and operating this claim, and thereby adopting all-that had been done, was just as efficacious as making a
new location. The defendants knew just as well as any one
could know that the plaintiffs were there in the enjoyment of
this property, and they have sought by straining a technicality
to defeat the rights of. plaintiffs. in this regard: - But it is not
worth while to pursue any lengthy discussion of this question,
as this court has already passed upon it. .Ioonanv.. Caledonid
.Atining Co., 121 U. S. 393.
The facts and circumstances in the case at bar are on all
fours with that case, and it is respectfully submitted'that error
is manifest in the ruling below.
.&. A. T. Britton and XA1P. A. B. Browne for defendant-in
error.
MR.

JusTicE FmaLo delivered the opinion of the courL

The defendant, a corporation *organized and existing under
the laws of Colorado, in October, 1880i applied to-the proper
land office in that State for a mineral patent for a lode claim

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

known as the Titusville lode, in San Juan County, which was
fifteen hundred feet in length by three hundred feet in width.
Within the time prescribed by statute, and during the month,
the appellants here, Kendall and others, filed in the same land
office an adverse claim for a portion of the premises, of which
the defendant desired to obtain a patent, asserting a prior and
superior right to the same, as part of a lode known as Bear
lode, which they had discovered on the 3d of September, 1872,
and upon which they had sunk a discovery shaft, and performed the several acts retuired to perfect a mineral location
under the laws of the United States and the local rules and
customs of miners. Within thirty days thereafter they brought
the present action under section 2326 of the Revised Statutes,
to determine as between the parties, the right of possession to
the disputed premises, the issue of a patent for the same being
dependent upon such determination. In their complaint they
allege the performance of the labor required and all other acts
necessary to preserve the lode from forfeiture. That lode, as
originally located, extended fifteen hundred feet in length and
one hundred feet on each side of the centre of the vein. In
October, 1878, the locators filed an additional certificate of
location in the local land office, claiming one hundred and fifty
feet on each side of the centre. And they aver that the Titusville lode, claimed by the defendant corporation, is a junior
location and includes in length twelve hundred feet of the surface ground of the Bear lode, and in width covers more than
the south half of the surface ground for the twelve hundred
feet.
The defendant in its answer denies that the ground in controversy comprised part of the unappropriated public domain
of the United States, and that it was open to location on the
3d day of September, 1872, as set forth by the plaintiffs, and
alleges that at that date the ground embraced a portion of a
certain tract of land which, by treaty between the United
States and certain confederated bands of the Ute Indians in
Colorado, conclded March 2, 1968, and proclaimed on the 6th
of November of the same year, had been reserved for the use
and occupancy of the Indians, and that the Indian title to the

KENDALL v. SAN JUAN MINING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

tract was not extinguished until March, 1874. 15 Stat. 619.The answer also alleges that the Titusv.ille lode claim was
located on the 29th day of August, 1874; that all acts were
done necessary to constitute a valid location of the premises;
and that the legal title to the lode, and the right to its pos-.
session, had by various conveyances from the original locators
become vested in the defendant; and it prays judgment therefor.
• By the terms of the treaty mentiofned, a tract of country,
which included the mining property in question, was set apart
for the absolute and undisturbed use and occupation of the
Indians therein named, and for such other friendly tribes or
individual Indians as, from time to time, they might be willing,
with the consent of the United States, to admit among them.
And the United States agreed that no persons except those
designated, and such officers, agents and employ~s of the
government as might be authorized to-enter upon Indian reservations in discharge of duties enjoined by law, should ever be
permitted to "pass over, settle upon or reside in the territory
described," except as therein otherwise provided. 15 Stat.
619, 620. The effect of .the treaty was to exclude all intrusion
for mining or other private pursuits upon the territory thus
reserved for the Indians. It prohibited any entry of, the kind
upon the premises, and no interest could be claimed or enforced
in disregard of this provision. Not until the withdrawal of
the land from this reservation of the treaty by a new convention with the Indians, and one which would throw the lands
open, could a mining location thereon be initiated by the plaintiffs. The location of the Bear lode having been made whilst
the- treaty was in force, was inoperative to confer any rights
upon the plaintiffs. Whatever rights to mining land they
subsequently possessed upon the original Indian tract were
founded upon a new location made more than two years after'
the withdrawal of the reservation, and after the Titusville lode
had been located by the defendant. Had the plaintiffs, immediately after the withdrawal of the reservation, relocated their
Bear lode, their position would have been that of original locators. They would then have been within the rule in .Noonan

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Caledonia iMining Co., 121 U. S. 393. That rule was this:
that where a party was in possession of a mining claim cra the
withdrawal of a reservation caused by a treaty with the
Indians, with the requisite discovery, with surface boundaries
sufficiently marked, with a notice of location posted, and with
a disclosed vein of ore, he could, by adopting what had been
done and causing a proper record to be made, and performing
the amount of labor or making the improvements necessary to
hold the claim, date his rights from that day. But such was
not the case here. The reservation by the treaty was withdrawn in Iarch, 1874; the Titusville lode was.located on the
29th day of August, 1874, and the Bear lode of the plaintiffs
was not relocated until two years afterwards.
Whatever rights, therefore, the plaintiffs had, subsequently
to the withdrawal of the reservation, in the premises claimed
by the defendant, arose- from its disclaimer. By that disclaimer the company relinquished to the plaintiffs such portion
of their Bear lode, with surface width of'fifty feet, as came in
conflict with the premises claimed by it under the Titusville
location, and upon its motion in the trial court, judgment was
entered, pursuant to such disclaimer, for 'he plaintiffs for the
amount disclaimed, and for the defendant for the residue.
The plaintiffs now seek, by their writ of error, to recover the
residue of the Titusville lode, insisting that, under the decision
in AHoonan v. Caledonia .MiningCo., they have a right to all
the premises which were covered by their illegal location during the pendency of the Indian treaty. But such is- not the
propei, construction of that decision. There was in that case
no new location by different parties, after the removal of the
reservation, to interfere with the old lcation then renewed
and with a proper record.
There is another view of this case, which leads to the same
conclusion. Section 2324 of the Revised Statutes makes the
manner of locating mining claims and recording them subject
to the laws of the State or T.rritorv, and the regulations of
each mining district, wlen they are not in conflict with the
laws of the United States. The act of Colorado, of February
13, 1874, requires the discoverer of a lode, within three mon~ths

GREGORY v. BOSTON SAFE DEPOSIT CO.

666

Syllabus.

from the date of discovery, to record his claim in the office of
the recorder of the county in which the lode is situated, by a
location certificate.
It also provides that a location certificate of a lode claim
which shall -not contain the name of the lode, the name of the
locator, the date of the location, the number of linear feet
claimed on each side of the discovery shaft, the general course
of th, lode, and such description as shall identify the claim
with reasonable certainty, shall be void.
The -reservation of the premises in controversy by force of
the Indian treaty was extinguished April 29, 1874. On that
date the premises in controversy were open to location, and
within three months afterwards the duty rested upon the
plaintiffs to record the certificate of the location of their lode,
if they desir6d to preserve any right in it. 'No such record of
their location was made within that time. No record was
made or desired by them until an additional certificate of location was filed by them, claiming 150 feet* on each side of the
centre of their vein, vhich was not done until October, 1878.
As they failed to comply with the law in making a record of
the location certificate of their lode, it does not lie with them
to insist that their wrongful entry upon the premises during
the existence of the Indian reservation operated in their favor
against. parties who went upon the premises after they had
become a part -of the public domain, and made a proper location certificate and record thereof, and complied in other particulars with the requirements of the law.

tfudgment q

med.

GREGORY v. BOSTON SAFE DEPOSIT AND TRUST
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE OIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Wo. 292.

Argued April 12, 13, 1892.-

Decided April 25, 1892.

Money, the proceeds of a note, was deposited to the credit of a suit in
equity in a Circuit Court, in a Safe Deposit Company. G. brought another

