OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

the Manitoba equally with the Comet, and imposing upon her
the same duties as it imposed on the Comet, of slackening
speed, or, if necessary, stopping and reversing. This court
affirmed the finding, as a conclusion of law, that the Manitoba
was in fault in not indicating her course by her whistle, and
in not slowing up, and in failing to reverse her engine until it
was too late to accomplish anything thereby.
The difference between the case of The 3fanitoba and the
present case involves the vital point, that, in the former, the
question was between two steam vessels, while in the latter, it
is between a steam vessel and a sailing vessel. In the case of
the courses of the two steam vessels were not
The .fanitoba,
such as to make it the duty of the one more than of the other
to avoid the other, or to make it the duty of the one rather
than of the other to keep her course; and there was, in regard
to the courses of both the steam vessels, such risk of collision
that the obligation was upon both to slacken speed, or, if necessary, stop and reverse. But .in the present case, the duty
was wholly on the ship to keep her course, and wholly on the
tug to keep out of the way of the ship; and there was no
duty imposed on the tug to stop and reverse until, as above
shown,, she was in the very jaws of the collision.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Washington is
Affirmed, and the case is remanded to the Circuit Court of
the United Statesfor the -Districtof Washington, (Act of
February 22, 1889, c. 180, 25 Stat. 676, 682, 683, § 22,
23,) forfurther proceedings according to law.

WATERMAN v. BANKS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 190. Argued March 7, 8, 1892.-Decided March 28, 1892.

J. S. W. having advanced to his brother 1. W. W. moneys to aid him in developing mines, the title to which was in dispute, and being about to

WATERMAN v. BANKS.

395

Statement of the Case.
advance further sums for the same purpose, the latter executed and delivered to him an agreement as follows : " San Bernardino, Cal., May
14th, 1881.-For and in consideration of one dollar to me in hand paid,
the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, I hereby agree that it any
time within twelve months from this date, upon demand of J. S. Waterman or his heirs,'administrators or assigns, I will execute to him a good
and sufficient deed of conveyance to an undivided twenty-four onehundredihs (1%) of the following mines, known as the Alpha, Omega,
Silver Glance and Front, each being 600 feet wide by 1500 ft. long, and
the same interest in all lands that may be located or has been located for
the development of the above mines, with such machinery and improvements as is to be placed upon same, all subject to the same proportion of expenses, which is to be paid out of the development of the
above property, all situated near the Grape Vine, in the county of San
Bernardino, State of California." Held,
(1) That, taken in connection with the evidence, this conveyed to J. S.
W. no present interest in the property, but only the right to acquire
.uch an interest within a period of "twelve months from this
date."
(2) That time was of the essence in such a contract for acquisition.
The principle that time may become of the essence of a contract for the
sale of property from the very nature of the property itself is peculiarly
applicable to mineral properties which undergo sudden, frequent and
great fluctuations in value, and require the parties interested in them to
be vigilant and active in asserting their rights.
TiE court stated the case as follows :
This appeal brings up for review a decree requiring R. W.
Waterman, the original defendant, to convey, free from incumbrance, to Abbie L, Waterman, the original plaintiff, and
the widow and assignee- of J. S. Waterman, an undivided
twenty-four one-hundredths of certain mining property in San
Bernardino County, California, and, also, to pay to her the
sum of $42,987.22, Which was adjudged to be the amount of
profits deriled from that property, with the interest that accrued thereon pyior to January 10, 1888. 27 Fed. Rep. 827.
J. S. Waterman and R. W. Waterman were brothers; the
former, of large wealth, and .a citizen of Illinois, and the latter,
of limited means and a citizen of California, engaged with one
Porter in "prospecting" and developing mining property.
R. W. Waterman and Porter having acquired certain mining
claims or interests in San Berdardino County, California, the

OCTOBER TERAT, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

former wrote a letter to his brother, under date of April 5,
1881, Wvhich seems to be the beginning of the transactions out
of which the present litigation arose. The writer said: "Porter
finished assay yesterday, and will start in tomorrow. The
mine improves all the time. It goes beyond our most sanguine
expectations. The chimney will 'extend somewhere about
800 or 1000 feet, and is.worth itself millions. The assay for
the dump after-picking out the best ore and assay, the average of the poorest is over $50 and, so far as we can see,
the entire mass is very rich. . . . Now,we can fight all of
them, pay all expenses and make a million a year, but I don't
anticipate much, if any trouble. . . . You let Mr. Porter
have some money to pay his expenses without his asking for it.
le is one of the most modest men I ever saw. I want you to
have a talk with Jane about your joining me and having an
interest in the mine. It will include the four claims, the
Alpha, Omega, Front and Silver Glance. They are-what
there is of it, and either one is enough to form a company. I
propose to let you have -f of my interest of - -you give
up my indebtedness and give me to pay off any debts that
is worth
I have incurred in mining, say $2000. That
$256,000, and may be I a million to sell outside of this. All the
money you get to buy rhachinery or advance in any way shall
be paid from the first earnings of the mill. You might be at
the head of the affair financially, and otherwise; each one of us
to have his part, but .you be at the head. . . . You speak
to Porter about our partnership. I know he is all 0. K. and
will not pretend to own but J; yet try'him. I presume he
would give you a share of his if you raise the money for us.'"
It does not appear that any formal reply was made to this
letter. But it does appear that J. S. Waterman was in California the succeeding month, and took from his brother an obligation of which the following is a copy:
"SAN

BERNARDINO, CAL.,

-May 14,

1881.

"For and in consideration of one dollar to me in hand paid,
the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, I hereby agree
that at any time within twelve months from this date, upon de-

WATERMAN v. BANkS
Statement of the Case.

mand of J. S. Waterman or his heirs, administrators or assigns,
I will execute to him a good and sufficient deed of convey-'
ance to an undivided twentV-four one-hundredths (-24 ) of the
following mines, known as the Alpha, Omega, Silver Glance
and Front, each being 600 feet wide by 1500 ft. long, and the
same interest in all lands that inay be located or has been
located for the development of the above mines, with such machinery and improvements as is to be placed upon same, all subject to the same proportion of expenses, whic'h is to be'paid out
of the development of the above property, all situated near the
Grape Vine, in the county of San Bernardino, State of Cal'fornia.
cc R. W. WATE=~AN.)"
*This was the obligation, the specific performance of which

was required by the'decree below.
An obligation of like character as to date and terms was
taken by J. S. Waterman from Porter with respect to an undivided three one-hundredths of the,same property.
Prior to, but, perhaps, in expectation- of, the execution of
these writings, J. S. Waterman advanced to his brother and
Porter the sum of $1817, and, subsequently, other sums, the
aggregate amount of advancements, on.the 22d day of November, 1881, being $26,317, exclusive of interest. For each
sum s'o advanced, J. S. Waterman took the notes of R. W.
Waterman and Porter. It also appeared that when the writings of May 14, 1881, were given, R. W, Waterman was in-debted to J. S. Waterman in the sum of $11,750.53 for moneys
loaned. But R. W. Waterman contended that if all matters
of business between them had been settled, he would not have
been then indebted to his brother in any sum whatever.
J. S. Waterman died July 19, 1883, having made a will,
which was dated November 28, 1870. That will provided,
among other things, that any and all notes, bills, accounts,
agreeaents or other evidence of indebtedness against any of
his brothers, held by the testator at his decease, be cancelled
by his executors and delivered up to the maker or makers
without payment of the same or any part thereof, except two

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

notes against John C. Waterman, secured by a deed of trust
on lands, which were to be collected and equally divided between his brothers and sisters, and the children of such as had
died. By a codicil to the will, of date December 7,1872, his
brother R. W. Waterman was substituted as executor in place
of George.S. Robinson.
Upon the paper of May 14, 1881, given by R. W. Waterman, appears the following endorsement: "I hereby assign the
within to Mrs. Abbie L. Waterman. J. S. Waterman. M'ch,
1883. I hereby agree to execute the within agreement on demand." In March, 1883, the paper with this endorsement
upon it was presented to R. W. Waterman, and he refused to
sign it. At that time there was a balance of about $11,000
due J. S. Waterman on the notes given by R. W. Waterman
and Porter. Porter signed a similar endorsement on the writing of May 14, 1881, executed. by him. But the evidence satisfactorily shows that he did this only to indicate his willingness that that paper should stand as security simply for. the
moneys advanced by J. S. Waterman.
All the moneys advanced to R. W. Waterman and Porter
were repaid out of the proceeds of the mining property before
the institutioni of this suit, the principal part before and the
balance after the death of J. S. Waterman.
iNo demand was made upon R. W. Waterman or Porter at
.any time within twelve months after - May 14, 1881, for a conveyance, nor until after the death "ofJ. S. Waterman.
This suit and the decree below proceeded upon the general
ground that the writing of May 14, 1881, was intended to pass,
and was accepted as passing, a present interest of twenty-four
one-hundredths in the property covered by its provisions, and
required R. W. Waterman to convey such interest at any time,
before or after the expiration of-twelve months from that date,
on the demand by J. S. Waterman, his heirs, administrators
or assigns of a conveyance.. The defendant disputed this interpretation of that instrument and insisted that it was given
and accepted only as security for such moneys as J. S. Waterman might advance for the development or management of
this property.,

WATERMAN v. BANKS.
Argument for Appellee.

.Mr. George . Edmunds for appellant.
was on the brief for same.

.M.

f .X. Willis

-Yr. Charles C. Bonney, (with whom was X&. E. F . -eC/raw on the brief,) for appellee.
The court will not hold itself too strictly bound by technicalities or literal expressions, but will construe, interpret and
apply the contract, as far as the circumstances will permit, according to the justije of the case. Bank of,Aleandria v.
Linn, 1 Pet. 376.
The fact that the complainant's assignor had fully performed
the contract on his part will be deemed a powerful aid to the
granting of the relief sought. Brashierv. Grantz, 6 Wheat.
528, 534. The consideration having been fully paid and performed, the delay of the purchaser in calling for the ddeds was
wholly immaterial . Walton v. Coulson, 1 McLean, 120; ll
.eat
v. Puiol, 44 California, 230.
The right to an account for a proper sIiare of the profits of
the mines, is in equity beyond controversy; otherwise the delinquent party would be protected in taking advantage of his
own 'wrong. Warrell v. funn 38 -IN, Y. 137; .Velson, v.
Bridges, 2 Beavan, 239; Barnur v. Landom, 25 Connecticut,
137.
From the making of the contracts t'o the completion of the
payment of the consideration, the vendors hold the interest
covered by the contracts, as security for performance by the
vendee. From the date of that completion- the vendois have
iheld the legal title to that interest as trustees of the purchaser,
and subject 'to an account for the rents and profits derived
from it.

Willis v.* Wozencraft, 22 California, 607; Love v.

Watkins, 40 California, 547.
The supposed "option " in the contract is not a fac ut a
jiction. The true meaning of the agreement is that within
twelve months from the date of the contract, or at any time
upon demand, the deed shall be made.- The transposition of
the words "at any time" was doubtless a merely clerical
error, and is easily corrected by a proper constructi6n., But

,OCTOBER TERM, 1891
Opinion of the Court.

if the contract had in fact. given an option, as appellants contend, the payment of the considerationby James S. Waterman
'would have matured that option and made the contract absolut6. Bell v. Quarles, 5 Yerger, 463; Tinney v. Ashley, 15
Pick. 546; S. 0. 26 Am. Dec. 620; -Fleming v. Harrison,-2
Bibb, 171; S. 0. 4 Am. Dec. 691.
MR. JusTicEIHMLAN, after
opinion of the court.

-stating

the case, delivered the

We cannot assent to the view taken by the court below.
The bill alleges -and the evidence fully sustains the allegation- that when the writing in question was given, the title
to this property was in dispute, and that its development and
improvement involved the expenditure of large sums,. great
risk of the total loss of everything invested in it and uncertainty, of profit. Under these circumstances, J. S. Waterman,
according to the decided preponderance of the evidence, did
riot wish to become a part owner of the property or to incur
the responsibility of developing and managing it in conjunction with his, brother and Porter. He was entirely willing,
indeed, anxious, to assist his brother, *butwas not willing, at
the outset, to take an interest in the property, or to become
connected with them in business. His chief concern then-was
to secure the repayment of sums advanced and to be advanced
by him to his brother and Porter for the development of tng
property, postponing to a future time the decision of the question as to wthether he would take an interest in the property
as suggested in the letter of April 5, 1881. If it proved: to
be valuable, he would incur no responsibility by becoming a
part owner and uniting with his brother and Porter in its
development .and management. 'If it proved to be worthless,
and if his brother and Porter were unable to meet their notes,
he would only lose, and, as he possessed large wealth, could
afford to ..lose, the sums advanced. by him. These were the
objects h6 had in view when he prepared and obtained from
his brother the writing of May 14, 1881. That writing evidently. contemplated, that "out of the development of the
above ]aroperty," that is, out of its earnings,' were to be paid

WATER IAN v. BANKS.
Opinion of the Court.

the expenses incurred in providing machinery, in making improvements, etc. These expenses were to be met, in the first
instance, by the moneys advanced by J. S. Waterman to his
brother and Porter. They could not have been otherwise
paid; for the resources of R. W. Waterman and Porter were
very limited, and the property had not then been sufficiently
developed to become itself the basis of borrowing large sums
from banks or from individual lenders of money. All this is
manifest from the facts in the case.
But it is clear from the face of the writing, without calling
to our aid the circumstances under which it was executed, that
J. S. Waterman did not stipulate .for a present interest in the
property. It was drawn so as not to give him an interest, as
owner, during the period supposed to be required for its development. While intended by the parties as security for moneys
advanced and to be advanced by J. S. Waterman, it contains
no word or clause indicating a purpose to create, as of its date,
the relation of purchaser and vendor between him and R. W.
Waterman. It gave the former, his heirs, administrators and
assigns, an option to demand a conveyance within a prescribed
period, thus making time of the essence of the agreement. If
a conveyance was not demanded within that period, the obligation of R. W. Waterman to make one ceased altogether.
Such was the contract; and the suggestion -that the transposition of the words, "it any time," was a mere clerical' error, to
be corrected by construction, is simply an appeal to the court
to make for the parties an agreement they did not choose to
make for themselves and then decree its specific performance.
No principle of equity would support such a decree. Hgburn
v. -Dunlop, 1 Wheat. 179. The demand for a conveyance
within a given time - looking alone at the writing

-

was

made by the parties a condition precedent to the acquisition by
J.S.Waterman of an interest in the propety. R. W. Waterman did not agree to convey except upon the performance of
that condition precedent. The condition being lawful, it is
not competent for the court to dispense with its performance.
The principles by which a court of equity is governed in
cases of this character are well settled. Mr. Justice Story sayg
VOL. CXLrV-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

that "notwithstanding the rule is well established in courts of
equity, that time will not be regarded as indispensable, in regard to decreeing specific performance of contracts for the actual sale of lands on one side and the actual purchase on the
other, it is different where the contract gives a mere election
to purchase upon certain conditions. Accordingly, where upon
a lease, with the right of purchase within seven years, upon
giving three months' notice, and paying a fixed sum at the expiration of such notice, and the lessee gave the requisite notice,
but did not pay the money in time, a bill for specific performance was dismissed. And a similar decision wag made by the
Lord Ohancellor, where his lordship said: 'The things required
must be done in the order of sequence stipulated. These were
notice and the payment of the money, on a day certain."'
Story, Eq. Jur. § 777 a. In Potts v. Whitehead, 20 N. J. Eq.
(5 0. E. Green), 55, 57, 59, which was a suit for the specific performance of a contract to convey land - the owner stipulating,
for the consideration of one dollar, that the complainant should
have, for thirty days, the refusal of the lands -the court said:
"The paper signed by the defendant is not a contract, but on
its face, and by its very terms, only a refusal or offer of the
lands to the complainant at a certain price; this is not disputed
by the counsel of the complainant. This, like all such offers,
was not binding, and could not be converted into a contract,
unless accepted within the thirty days. Whether, when such
an offer is made for a mere nominal consideration, the person
offering can withdraw it within the time specified, it is not
necessary to consider, as it was not withdrawn, and, like all
such offers, it would be binding if accepted within the time,
and before it was withdrawn." Again: "There can be no question but that when an offer is made for a time limited in the
offer itself, no acceptance afterwards will make it binding.
Any offer without consideration may be withdrawn at any
time before acceptance; and an offer which in its terms limits
the time of acceptance is withdrawn by the expiration of the
time."
The rule is well expressed in Lord Ranelagh v. jXelfon, 2
Drewry & Smale, 278, 281, where it was said: "No doubt if

•WATERMAN v. BANKS.

403

Opinion of the Court.

an owner of land and an intending purchaser enter into a contract constituting between. them the relation of vendor and
purchaser, and there is a stipulation in the contract that the
purchase money shallbe paid and the contract completed on a
certain day, this court in ordinary cases has established the
principle that time is not of the essence of the contract and
that the circumstances of the day fixed for the payment of thi
money and the completion of the purchase being past does not
entitle either party to refuse to complete. On the other hand,
it is well settled that when there is a contract between the
owner of land and another person, that if such person shall do
a specified act, then he (the owner) will convey the land to
him in fee, the relation of vendor and purchaser does not exist
between the parties unless and until the act has been done as
specified. The court regards it as the case of a condition on
the performance of which the party performing it is entitled
to a certain benefit; but in order to obtain such benefit he
must perform the condition strictly. Therefore if there be a
day fixed for its performance, the lajse of that day without
its being performed prevents him from claiming the benefit."
In Taylor v. Iongworth, 14 Pet. 172, 174, the principle was
recognized that time may become of the essence of a contract
for the sale of property not only by the express stipulation
of the parties, but from the very nature of the property itself.
This principle is peculiarly applicable where the property is
of such character that it will likely undergo sudden, frequent
or great fluctuations in value. In' respect to mineral property
it has been said, that it requires, and of all properties, perhaps, the most requires, the parties interested in it to be vigilant and active in asserting their rights. Prendergast v. Liston, 1 Yo. & Coll. Ch. 110; -Doloret'v.RotMschild, 1 Sim. &
St. 590, 598; Fry on Spe~ific Performance, §§ 714, 715;
Pomeroy on Contracts, §§ 384, 385; .B'own v. Covillaud, 6
California, 566, 572; Green v. Covillaaud, 10 California, 317,
324; Aagofflg v. HYolt, 1 Duvall, 95.
That J. S. Waterman did not, in fact, accept the writings
of May 14; 1881, as passing to him a present interest in the
property, but at' the utmost, as security for the moneys

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

advanced and to be advanced by him, with a right reserved,
or the option given, to demand a conveyance within a certain
time, is established by many facts and circumstances disclosed
by the evidence.
When those writings were given, the title of R. W. Waterman and Porter to this mining property was disputed by one
Miller. This fact was well known to J. S. Waterman. In
a suit brought by Miller he was examined as a witness for
R. W. Waterman for the purpose of contradicting the evidence of Miller. His cross-examination as taken down, at the
time, by the official reporter of the court, was as follows:
"Q. Have you any pecuniary interest in this litigation?
A. No, sir. Q. Have you any interest in any of these mines
out there? A. No, sir. Q. Or in the mill? A. No, sir.
Q. Haven't you made advances of money the repayment of
which is dependent principally upon your brother and Porter
retaining these mines and working them? A. Yes, sir; I
loaned them money. Q. And you understand that their
ability to pay depends in a great measure, if not entirely,
upon their retaining these mines and working them successfully? A. That hasn't been talked over. Q. Isn't that your
understanding of it? A. That is the understanding; they
would have to pay out of the mines. Q. They would'have no
other mines to pay you from? A. They have other mines.
Q. Do you think they have other mines that would respond?
A. I think Mr. Porter has, or either one of them. I merely
have their promise to pay, no security. Q. Haven't you been
up the country examining mills and machinery for their use?
A. Yes, sir. Q. Haven't you taken an active interest in their
mining operations? A. I purchased the mill; yes, sir. I
became security for them."
The learned counsel for the plaintiff, referring to this evidence, observes: "But it is said, that subsequently to the date
of the contracts, James S. Waterman admitted that he had
no interest in the mines, but it does not appear that he was
then the owner of the contracts. It may be presumed from
the evidence that he had previously assigned them to complainant." But it does appear, conclusively, that the above

WATERMAN v. BANfkS.
Opinion of the Court.

statement by James S. Waterman, under oath, that he had
no interest in the mines, was made subsequent to the execution of the writings of May 14, 1881, after he. had advanced'
to R. W. Waterman and Porter nearly twenty-four thousand
dollars, but long before the assignment of the writing of May
14,1881, to his wife. The assignment to*Mrs. Waterman was
in March, 1883 -it is so alleged in the bill - 'vhile the crossexamination of J. S. Waterman in Miller's suit took place in
August or September, 1881. This latter fact is proved by several witnesses, some of whom participated in the trial as attorneys, and from numerous'letters which passed b.etween R. W.
Waterman and J. S. Waterman shortly after the writings of
May 14, 1881, were executed. R. W. Waterman wrote to his
brother, under date of July 16, 1881, "I expect you will have
to come out next mo., that suit must come off, I am tired of
holding witnesses;" under date of July'22, 1881, "Things
are transpiring which I fear will make us work to beat Miller.
If the suit comes off you must be here;" under date of
July 30, 1881, "I shall do all I can to get this trial on right
away, and you must hold yourself in readiness to come .out at
a moment's warning.
I will telegraph you when
wanted;" under date of August 2, 1881, "It [the suit] is set
for the first Monday in September, and you must be here.
The lawyers say that your evidence is very important, -and
your presence will help very much;" under date of August
3, 1881, "I wrote you my suit came off in Sept., they changed
the t'me, 'tis the 30th of August, and you must be here,
Ro ell and Willis say 'tis very necessary;" under date of
August 10, 1881, " H ope nothing will prevent your being out
at the suit;" under date of August 15, 1881, "I am at Rowell's office; he says you must be here; my case is set for the
30th of August and Porter's for September 3, don't fail us;"
under date of August 15, 1881, "The suits are set for the 30th
of August and 3d of September; come the northern route ;"
under date of August 20, 1881, "I really hope you will be
able to be here at the suit, 'tis set for Aug. 30, and Porter's
for Sept. 3, and can't be put off." To R. W. Waterman's
letter of July 30, 1881, J. S. Waterman replied, "I shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

hold myself in readiness, but you see Rowell and Willis before
you send;" and in a letter of August 8, 1881, he said, "Try
and not send for me till the last of the month or 1st of
Sept."
It thus appears that J. S. Waterman, in response to these
urgent requests of his brother to attend the trial of the Miller suit, went to California, and stated, under oath, when the
execution and object of the writings of May 14, 1881, must
have been fresh in his recollection, that he had no interest in
the mines in question in that suit, and which are the identical
mines referred to in those writings. How can the theory
of this suit, namely, that J. S. Waterman acquired a present
interest by the writin'gs of May 14, 1881, be sustained consistently with his oath in the Miller suit? He was, as we
infer from the record, a gentleman of intelligence, and it
must be assumed that he knew what he was saying when he
testified in, August, 1881, that he had no pecuniary interest in
the litigation between Miller and his brother, involving the
title to this property, and no interest in the mines themselves.
To all this may be added the fact, established by several
witnesses, that J. S. Waterman declared, in their presence, on
different occasions, that he did not have an interest in this property, and only desired to secure the repayment of such sums
as he advanced to his brother and Porter on account of it.
The only fact that is apparently inconsistent with the view
we have taken of the evidence is the offer made by R. W.
Waterman in his letter of April 5, 1881, that his brother
should take an interest in these mining claims. But it does
not appear that this offer, as made, was accepted. On the
contrary, the decided preponderance of evidence shows that,
upon full consideration, he declined to take a present interest
in the property as one of its owners; that, at the outset, he
only sought to be secured in respect to the money he might
advance to his brother and Porter; and that the writings of
May 14, 1881, were intended by the parties simply as security
for the moneys so advanced, with an option to J. S. Waterman to demand a conveyance of the respective interests described, within a time limited.

WATERMAT v. BANKS.
Opinion of the Court.

As the moneys advanced by J. S. Waterman to R. W. Waterman and Porter were all repaid before the commencement
of this suit, and as no conveyance was demanded from R. W.
Waterman within the time limited by his obligation, the plaintiff was not entitled to the relief asked.
One other point requires notice at our hands. An interlocutory decree was rendered declaring the plaintiff to be entitled
to the relief asked, and the cause was referred to the master
to state the accounts between the parties in respect to the use
of the property, and the profits derived from it. The master
made his report, ind the final decree recites that each party
waived the right to except to it. This waiver is relied upon
as showing that the final decree was by consent, and, therefore, not to be questioned in this court. This contention is
overruled. The waiving of exceptions to the master's report
meant nothing more than that the appellant did not dispute
its correctness in respect to the amount of the profits realized
from the property. This waiver had no reference to the fundamental inquiry as to whether the plaintiff was entitled to a
conveyance. But as, for the reasons stated, R. W. Waterman
was not bound to convey -the time having elapsed in which
a conveyance could be rightfully demanded- the entire decree falls.
The decree is reversed and the caue remanded with directions to dismiss Mhe bill.

POnTEn v. BANKS.

Appeal from the Circuit Court of the

United States for the Northern Di~trict of California, No. 191.
Argued with and decided at the same time as No. 190, ante, 394.
AI. JUsTIcE HARLAN.
The decree in this case required the
specific execution by Porter of a written obligation to J. S.
Waterman, similar in all respects to that of R. W. Waterman, referred to in the foregoing opinion, except that the interest which Porter agreed to convey was (3-100) three one-hundredths" of the same property; also to pay to the original
plaintiff, Abbie L. Waterman, the sum of $5373.40 as the profits

