OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

acquired no commercial domicil in this country: and whatever
domicil he had acquired, if any, he had forfeited by departure
and absence for seven years with no apparent intention of
returning. All the circumstances rendered it possible for him
to procure and produce the specified certificate and required
him to do so. We have no doubt of the correctness of the
judgment then rendered and the reasons given in its support.
As -Lau Ow Bew is, in our opinion, unlawfully restrained
of his liberty, we reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and, as required by
ยง 10 of the act of March 3, 1891, remand the cause to the
Circuit Court of the United Statesfor the Northern )istrict of California, with directions to reverse its judg-

ment and disch rge the petitioner.

BUTLER v. NATIONAL HOME FOR DISABLED VOL-

UNTEER SOLDIERS.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 170. Argued February 29, March 1, 1892.-

Decided March 14, 1892.

This action was brought by the defendant in error as plaintiff below against
the plaintiff in error, defendant below, to recover a balance alleged to be
due from him to the plaintiff below as its treasurer. The defendant below denied that any sum was due, and set up an accord and satisfaction.
At the trial, after the plaintiff rested, the defendant opened his case at
length setting forth the grounds of his defence. After some evidence
had been introduced, including the books of account and the evidence of
a witness who kept those books, a conversation took place betveen the
court and the defendant respecting the introduction of evidence alleged
by the court to be outside of the statements made in the opening. The
defendant insisted that the evidence offered was within those statements.
A further conversation resulted in the defendant's offering to show that
all the. moneys ever received by him as treasurer were duly accounted
for and paid over. The court held this to be a mixed proposition of law
and fact, and therefore not to be proved by witnesses or other evidence;

BUTLER v. NATIONAL HOME FOR SOLDIERS.

65

Opinion of the Court.
and, having excluded it, charged the jury that the question at issue was
a book-keeper's puzzle or problem, which must be solved in favor of the
plaintiff, although nothing had occurred in the testimony which reflected
in the slightest degree upon the integrity or honesty or upright conduct
of anybody who was concerned or had at any time been concerned in the
transaction. Held,
(1) That under the rule laid down in Oscanyan v. Arms Co., 103 U. S.
261, it was competent for the court, if, assuming all the statements and claims made in Vhe defendant's opening with all'explanations and qualifications to be true, he had no case, to direct a
Verdict for the plaintiff; but
(2) That he should-have been allowed, especially in view of the statement that there was no imputation upon his integrity or honesty,
to offer proof to show that he had accounted for and paid over
the money for which he was sued; and that if the proof, when
offered, did not tend in law to establish those facts, it could have
been excluded.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. . X. Tohn&,on and -Yfr. Benjamin F. Butler in person
for plaintiff in error.
MAfr. Assistant Attorney General Maury for defendant in

error.
m. JusTE HIBL A delivered the opinion of the court:
The National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, a corporation existing under the laws of the United States, brought
this action against the plaintiff in error in the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts to recover the sum of $15,000 with
interest from November 20, 1879.
The defendant denied each allegation in *thedeclaration contained, and, also, averred that he had paid the plaintiff in full
all sums he ever owed it, due accord and satisfaction having
been made. He filed, in addition, a declaration in set-off, stating that he-was directed by the Board of Managers and Directors of the Home to act as its treasurer, which it was not his
official duty to do; that he continued to act in that capacity
until the expiration of his terra of office as a Manager; that
VOL. CXLIY-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

his service as such treasurer was very onerous and responsible,
he having collected, invested, reinvested, taken charge of and
paid out, very large sums of money, in the aggregate more
than ten millions of dollars, and kept the records and accounts
and examined the vouchers thereof; and that he was relieved
from that duty and service at his own request after ceasing to
be a member of the Board. He claimed just and proper compensation for his services in that behalf.
Upon the petition of the defendant the case'was removed
for trial into the Circuit Court of the United States upon the
ground that the plaintiff was a corporation created by an act
of Congress, and the suit was, therefore, one arising under the
laws of the United States. 18 Stat. 471, c. 137; Pacif
i RailProad Removal Cases, 115 U. S. 1.
After The removal of the cause the plaintiff filed an answer
to the declaration in set-off, denying that the defendant had
any legal claim for services as acting treasurer or otherwise,
and averring that there never was any agreement or understanding between the Board of Managers and the defendant
that the latter should receive compensation for services rendered or to be rendered, or duties performed or to be performed, by him in connection with the Home; that no salary
or other compensation therefor was ever determined or fixed
by the Board; and that the defendant never made any claim
or demand upon the plaintiff for compensation for stich services prior to the filing of his declaration in set-off.
The evidence on behalf of the plaintiff tended to show the
following facts: The defendant, as acting treasurer of the
Home, paid, May 7, 1879, to William S. Tilton, Manager of
the Eastern Branch Home, the sum of $15,000 to be used for
the purchase of leather for the manufacture of boots and shoes
at the Eastern Branch, and charged the same as so paid out in
his accounts. In payment of that advance Tilton, October 13,
18M9, sent to Butler a sight draft for $9838, drawn by the latter on his financial agent and book-keeper, George J. Carney,
payable to the order of Pitkin & Thomas, and sent by the
defendant, as acting treasurer, to that firm in payment for
clothing furnished by it to the Home. Pitkin & Thomas en-

BUTLER v. INATION AL HOME FOR SOLDIERS.

67

Opinion of the Court.

dorsed the draft and delivered it to Tilton in payment of boots
and shoes purchased of him by them. Tilton sent it together
with his receipt for $5162, to Carney. The receipt was in
these words: "Togus, Me., Oct. 13, 1879. Receipt for money
this day received from Gen. B. F. Butler, acting treasurer of
the National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, $5162.
William S. Tilton, Acting Treasurer."
The letter to Carney, containiftg the draft and receipt, was
as follows:
IIToGus, ME., October 13, 1879.
"Col; GEORGE J. CAnNEY, Financial Agent, Lowell, Mass.
"My DEAr. COL.: The General has requested me to arrange
for the settlement of $15,000 which he loaned me for the purchase of leather.
"I enclose Gen. Butler's draft on you at sight..:....
$9,838
And my treasurer.s receipt ......................
5,162
$15,000
"The Home owed me a balance of $5985.81 on the 30th September, '79; so the above balance (for which I send you regular treasurer's receipt in duplicate) will go far towards making
us square on the ordinary Home expenditures.
" WiLIA S. TILTON, Acting T 'wr2'. "'
Tilton never took up on his regular account with the Home
the receipt of the $15,000 on May '1, 1879, nor entered in that
account the repayment thereof, but entered both transactions
in his "shoe-shop bcoks.'"
It also appeared in the evidence introduced by the plaintiff
that the $5162 was never in-fact paid to Tilton, but that subsequently defendant gave Tilton an invoice for that sum the
same as if it had been paid, and that Tilton took1the same up'
on his regular account with the Home and accounted for it;
that the defendant's accounts as acting treasurer were rendered quarterly on the, last days of December, March, June
and September, and in those for the quarter Jnding December
31, 1879, no credit was given the Home for the draft and receipt sent by. Tilton, but it was therein charged, under date of
November 20, 1879, with the payment to Pitkin & Thomas of,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the sum of $9838, and the payment to Tilton of the $5162;
and that in the defendant's account book, kept by Carney, in
connection with the entry of payment by the defendant, November 20, 1879, of the sums of $9838 and $5162 to Pitkin &
Thomas and Tilton, respectively, was the following memorandum in Carney's writing: "No money passes from G. J. C. to
settle these; they offset an advance to Tilton."
Some letters that passed between the defendant and his successor in office, Gen. Franklin, were put in evidence, but they
need not be set out.
The court having overruled a motion made at the close of
the plaintiff's evidence, that a verdict be returned for the
defendant-to which actioil of the court an exception was
taken - the latter opened his defence with a speech to the
jury, occupying nearly ten pages of the printed record.
The first witness introduced for the defence was Carney,
who kept the accounts of the Home --elating to the moneys
received by the defendant as acting treasurer, from some time
in 1869 down to 1880. All the entries were in his handwriting. With the accounts and account books kept by him the
defendant never at any time interfered. In the progress of
his examination numerous rulings as to evidence were made,
to which the defendant excepted. Among other things, Judge
Carpenter, before whom the case was tried, said: "I take it
for granted all along that nothing is offered to be proved except what has been opened to the jury." To this the defendant replied, "Yes, sir." The Judge then said: "That being so,
I shall instruct them that nothing that-has been offered is relevant, and that nothing that can be offered that. does not go
.outside of the statement which was made in the opening of
the case is relevant."
Another'witness was sworn on behalf of the defendant, when,
according to the bill of exceptions, the following occurred:
DEFENDANT. "1Shall I go on further with IMr. Carney on the
question of the book-keeping? Did I understand.your honor
to say that, it appearing on our books we have taken it up
and charged it, ,we are not at liberty to show that 'it was
accounted for to the asylum?

BUTLER v. NATIONAL HOME FOR SOLDIERS.

69

Opinion of the Court.

CouRT. "No; I will repeat it. I should have been' -iderstood to say that if the testimony offered by you, and which
was to be adduced in answer to the question asked by you,
whatever it was, was to establish some allegation or offer of
proof made by you in your opening to the jury, and went no
further than that, and did not undertake to establish any
allegation not offered to be proved by you in your opening to
the jury, then, in that case, it is irrelevant to the issue and
inadmissible.
Defendant. "I expressly opened to the jury that it had all
been accounted for.
Court. "I did not so understand you.
Defendant. "I did, sir; and said that very account; and
will your honor remember. what I said exactly; that it had
gone into the account; tbat.the account had been audited and
approved, and not a cent remained in my hands, as there would
have been, or in Mr. Carney's hands, if there had been this
$15,000. I said that.
Court. "I do not think such facts as that amount to a
defence.
Defendant. "What - that it has been ultimately accounted
for?

1.

Court. "The statement that it is ultimately accounted for
is a proposition of mixed law and fact.
Defendant. "I want to put in the facts upon that question.
Court. "You are to prove to the jury, and, of course, state
in your opening, the facts which you are to prove. They are
not legal conclusions. Of course, however proper it may be
to advert to them as throwing light upon the nature -and manner of the %fence, they are not included, in the propositions
which you are L. :ng'to sustain by proof. Legal conclusions
cannot be sustained by proof or evidence offered in any case.
Defendant. "My proposition is, that I did state the fact of
accounting and the fact of paying over. I remember this
phrase, that I paid the balance that was found due from me
upon the accounts, to my successor. If that is not opening,
that I paid it and accounted for it, I don't know what it is.
Court. -I may, perhaps, be misunderstood. I mean to say

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

that upon all the statements of fact made in the opening, and
thereby offered to be proved to the jury, assuming them to be
true, there is no defence whatsoever to this action, in my judgment, and I shall pass upon the questions of testimony in that
view, and shall so instruct the jury.
Defendant. "And will not permit me to come in and show
that they were all accounted for ?
Court. "If you wish to offer any testimony as to matters of
fact beyond and outside of such matters of fact as-were opened
by you to the jury, I will hear a statement of what those
matters of fact are and pass upon them. If there be nothing beyond that which it is now desired by you to offer,
if there be nothing beyond that, then all parties have the
benefit of my distinct ruling that they are irrelevant, each
and all of them, to this issue, and that they constitute no
defence.
Defendant. "I still do not understand, sir. I now propose,
may it please your honor, to offer to show by this witness, who
was a member of the auditing committee of the accounts of
the asylum, who examined all the receipts and all the expenditures and the vouchers, that all the moneys ever received by
me as treasurer, including these, which were upon the same
account, were duly accounted for, and then by another witness
that they were paid over.
Court. "I judge that to be a mixed proposition of law and
fact, and, therefore, not to be proved by witnesses or other
evidence.
Defendant. "In order that I may not be mistaken, I will
say that I offer to prove that these Very sums of money here
in account were duly accounted for and paid over.
Court. "Do you propose to prove tha" by proving any substantive facts other than those recited .by you in your opening
to the jury?
Defendant. "I have only to say that I did not open every
item of. evidence to the jury, as at the end of forty-six years
of practice I have just learned I ought to. I now presume
I ought to have done so.
Court. "Then it is necessary for you now to state whit sub-

BUTLER v. I{ATIOiTAL HOME FOR SOLDIERS.

71

Opinion of the Court.

stantive fact you offer to prove which was not recited in your
opening to the jury.
Defendant. "I do not offer any fact except the fact which
I opened to the jury, that I had accounted for and paid over
every dollar of money, including this money.
Court. "Then I tell you it will be irrelevant to the issue.
'Defendant. "Your honor rules that it is irrelevant?
Court. "That is irrelevant.
Defendant. "It will have to ask your honor to save us an
exception on that."
At a later stage of the trial the court announced that there
was nothing to be argued, except the credibility of the evidence that had been introduced on behalf of- the plaintiff.
The conclusion of the charge to the jury was: "I need not
say to you, gentlemen, that nothing has occurred in this testimony which in the slightest degree reflects upon the integrity or honesty or upright conduct of anybody who is concerned or who has been at any time concerned in this
transaction. It is, as I have said, so far as the testimony goes
here, a book-keeper's puzzle or problem, which, feeling clear
what the right of the matter is, I have judged it was my duty
to take the responsibility of instructing you must be solved in
favor of the plaintiff, the Soldiers' Home."
Defendant. "I want, at the proper time, may it please your
honor, to except to everything your honor has said, upon the
facts to the jury under our law.
Court. "Very good, sir. I added those observations in the
public interest, and, as the case is confused, in the interest of
gentlemen. who are concerned in the case.
Defendant. "I simply take exception.
Court. f I do not r'etract them.. If they be ground- of exception you have the benefit of it."
The jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for the
sum of $16,537.
The question raised in this case as to the conduct of the
trial is somewhat similar to that determined in Oscanyan v.
"Arms Co., 103 U. S. 261, 263, 264. That was an action to
recover from the defendant commissions alleged to'have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

earned by one Oscanyan under a contract for the sale of firearms to the Turkish government. Plaintiff's counsel as preliminary to the introduction of testimony, stated to the court
and to the jury the issues in the case and the facts proposed
to be proved. That statement disclosed a contract that was
void, as being corrupt in itself, and prohibited by morality and
public policy. The defendant thereupon moved the court to
direct the jury to render a verdict in its favor. The plaintiff's
counsel having, in response to a direct inquiry 'by the court,
asserted the truth of the statement so made by him to the
jury, the motion for a verdict in favor of the defendant was
sustained. This court said that the power to act in the disposition of a trial upon facts conceded by counsel is as plain
as its power to act upon the evidence produced. But it further
said: "Of course, in all such proceedings nothing should be
taken, without full consideration, against the party making
the statement or admission. He should be allowed to explain
or qualify it, so far as the truth will permit; but if, with such
explanation and qualification, it should clearly appear that
there could be no recovery,. the court should not hesitate to so
declare and give such direction as will dispose of the action."
The manner in which the trial below was conducted did not
comport with the spirit of this rule. While, as to some matters,
the bill of exceptions is obscure, it is clear that the court below
was of opinion that the facts stated by the defendant in his
opening to the jury did not constitute a defence to the action.
But this opinion was based upon the belief that the defendant
did not state that he had accounted for and paid over to the
asylum the sums for which he was sued. When, however, the
defendant assured the court that it was under a misapprehension as to what he had stated, and that he had claimed, in his
opening, to have fully accounted for and paid over every dollar of the amount charged against him, he should have been
allowed to introduce proof of such facts. If the proof, when
formally offered, would not have tended, in law, to establish
those facts, it could have been excluded.
Such facts were
clearly admissible under the answer of the defendant, and if
they were not, strictly, included in the words of his opening

BUTLER v. NATIONAL 1HOME FOR SOLDIERS.

73

Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

to the jury, it was error, under the circumstances, to have
denied him the privilege of showing that he had, in fact, accounted for and paid over all the moneys for which he was
sued. We are the m6re inclined to so hold because the court below observed to the jury that nothing had occurred in the testimony which in the slightest degre6 reflected upon the integrity.
or upright conduct of any one who was then or had been concerned at any time in this transaction. And if, as the court
observed, the case was "confused,' and the matter a "bookkeeper's puzzle or problem," there was so much the more reason why the defendant should have been allowed the benefit
of his assurance that his opening proceeded upon the distinct
ground that he had accounted.for and paid over to the asylum
the sums which he was charged tp have improperly withheld.
We are of opinion that the case was not fully tried, and
as, for that reason, it must go back for another trial, we forbear
any expression of opinion upon the questions of law raised by
the record now before us.
Thejudgment is reversed,with directionsto granta new trial.
M.R. JusTICE BRowi" dissenting.
I am unable to see wherein the court failed to give the defendant a proper o.pportunity of putting his case before the
jury After the plaintiff had rested its case, defendant moved
for an instruction that a verdict be returned in his favor,
which was denied. The defendant thereupon made a long
and elaborate opening to the jury, claiming in substance two
defences: first, that he had duly accounted for the money;
and, second, that he was entitled by way of set-off to compensation for his services as Treasurer of the Home. In support
of his first defence he made a statement of facts which, as I
understand, were not disputed, but which had no tendency to
show that he had duly accounted for the money, and put a
witness upon the stand to give testimony which the court held
was not relevant to the issue, and made out no"defence. The
court thereupon ruled that the statement of facts made in the
opening to the jury, assuming them to be true, did not consti-

OCTOBER TERIM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

tute a defence to the action, and suggested that, if the defendant wished to offer any testimony as to matters of fact beyond
and outside of the opening, he would hear his statement of
what those facts were, and pass upon them; but if there were
nothing beyond that which had already been offered, he would
hold that they were irrelevant and constituted no defence. In
reply to this, defendant stated that he proposed to show that
the moneys charged against him were duly accounted for and
paid over; hnd in reply to a suggestion of the court that he
ought to state what substantial facts he expected to prove,
which were not recited in his opening, said: "I do not offer
any fact except the fact which I opened to the jury, that I
had accounted for and paid over every dollar of money, including this money." This the court held, under the facts
above set forth, to be irrelevant, and then stated that the only
question for the jury was as to the credibility of the plaintiff's
testimony.
It was held by this court in Oscanya v. Aqms Co. that
where it is shown by the opening statement of the plaintiff's
counsel that he has no case, the court may direct the jury to
find a verdict for the defendant without going into the evidence. I know of no reason why the same rule should not
apply to the defendant, who assumes in his opening to state a
defence. If the facts stated in such opening do not constitute
a defence, the court is at liberty to rule out the evidence, and
either direct a verdict for the plaintiff or submit the case to
the jury upon the plaintiff's testimony. In this case the defendant offered simply to show that he had accounted for the
money. This was clearly not a statement of fact, but of a
legal conclusion. It was as if, in an action of ejectment, the
defendant should state that he proposed to show that he had
the title to the lands in question; or, in an action for breach
of contract, that he had not broken the contract. In such
case, while the defendant may elect whether to make an opening or not, if he does make a statement of facts upon which
he relies, and such facts are not, in the opinion of the court,
relevant, I think the court may. properly call upon him to
state any further facts that he intends to prove, and if he de-

KENT v. LAKE SIUPERIOR

CANAL COMPANY.

75

Syllabus.

clines to make a statement other than he has already made,
it may lawfully assume that these constitute his entire defence. The facts stated by the defendant in this case in support of his defence that he had accounted for the money, were
simply cklculated to confuse the jury, without tending in any
way to show that he should not be charged with the sum in
controversy.
I am wholly unable to see that any injustice was done to
the defendant upon this trial, and think the judgment should
be affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR. JUSTICE GRAY took no part in

the decision of this case.

KENT 'v. LAKE SUPERIOR

SHIP CANAL, RAll-

WAY AND IRON O0MPANSTY.
APPEAL FROM THE bIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 149. Argued January 8, 1892. -Decided

March 14, 1892.

Remedy for error in a decree for the foreclosure and sale of property mortgaged to a trustee for the bbnefit of holders of bonds issued under the
mortgage, or in the sale un flr the decree, must be sought in the court
which rendered the decree and confirmed the sale.
A canal company which -had issued, several series of bonds; secured by
mortgages on its property, defaulted in the -payment of interest on all.
Bills were filed to foreclose the several trust deeds, and a receiver wat
appointed. On due notice to all parties receiver's certificates were issued
to a large amount for the benefit of the property, which certificates were
made a first lien upon it. The property was sold under a decree of foreclosure and sale, and the purchasers paid for the same in receiver's certificates, the amount of the bid being less than the amount of the issue
of such certificates. On a bill filed by a holder of bonds issued under
one of the mortgages foreclosed, Held,
(1) That his remedy sholid have been sought in the court which rendered the decree;

