WATERMAT v. BANKS.
Opinion of the Court.

As the moneys advanced by J. S. Waterman to R. W. Waterman and Porter were all repaid before the commencement
of this suit, and as no conveyance was demanded from R. W.
Waterman within the time limited by his obligation, the plaintiff was not entitled to the relief asked.
One other point requires notice at our hands. An interlocutory decree was rendered declaring the plaintiff to be entitled
to the relief asked, and the cause was referred to the master
to state the accounts between the parties in respect to the use
of the property, and the profits derived from it. The master
made his report, ind the final decree recites that each party
waived the right to except to it. This waiver is relied upon
as showing that the final decree was by consent, and, therefore, not to be questioned in this court. This contention is
overruled. The waiving of exceptions to the master's report
meant nothing more than that the appellant did not dispute
its correctness in respect to the amount of the profits realized
from the property. This waiver had no reference to the fundamental inquiry as to whether the plaintiff was entitled to a
conveyance. But as, for the reasons stated, R. W. Waterman
was not bound to convey -the time having elapsed in which
a conveyance could be rightfully demanded- the entire decree falls.
The decree is reversed and the caue remanded with directions to dismiss Mhe bill.

POnTEn v. BANKS.

Appeal from the Circuit Court of the

United States for the Northern Di~trict of California, No. 191.
Argued with and decided at the same time as No. 190, ante, 394.
AI. JUsTIcE HARLAN.
The decree in this case required the
specific execution by Porter of a written obligation to J. S.
Waterman, similar in all respects to that of R. W. Waterman, referred to in the foregoing opinion, except that the interest which Porter agreed to convey was (3-100) three one-hundredths" of the same property; also to pay to the original
plaintiff, Abbie L. Waterman, the sum of $5373.40 as the profits

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

of the property agreed to be conveyed with the- interest that
accrued thereon ,prior to January 10, 1888. The facts in this
case do not materially differ from those in the above case, and for
the reasons stated in the above opinion the decree in this case must
also be
Reversed.
Mr. George F. Edmunds for appellant.
Mr. Charles C. Bonney for appellee.

-GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY COMPAINY v. IVES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
EASTERN DISTRICT OF
No. 134. Argued January 4, 5, 1892.-

STATES FOR

THE

IICHIGAN.
Decided April 4, 1892.

When, in an action brought against a railroad company in Michigan by the
administrator of a person killed by one of its trains, to recover damages
for the killing, the record in this court fails to show that any exception was taken at the trial, based upon the lack of evidence to show
that he left some one dependent upon him for support, or some one who
had a reasonable expectation of receiving some benefit from him during
his lifetime, as required by the laws of that State, (Howell's Ann. Stat.
§§ 3391, 3392,) the objection is not before this court for consideration.
The terms "ordinary care," ". reasonable prudence," and similar terms
have a relative significance, depending upon the special circumstances
and surroundings of the particular case.
When a given state of facts is such that reasonable men may fairly differ
upon the question as to whether there was negligence or not, the determination of the matter is for the jury; but where the facts are such
that all reasonable men must draw the same conchsicn from them, the
question of negligence is one of law, for the court.
The running of a railroad train within the limits of a city at a greater
speed than is permitted by the city ordinances, is a circumstance from
which negligence may be inferred in case an injury is inflicted upon a
person by the train.
Whether ordinary care or reasonable prudence requires a railroad company to keep a flagman stationed at a crossing that is especially dangerous is a question of fact for a jury; although in some cases it has been
held to be a question of law for the court.
Where the statutes of a State make provisions in regard to flagmen at

