KENT v. LAKE SIUPERIOR

CANAL COMPANY.

75

Syllabus.

clines to make a statement other than he has already made,
it may lawfully assume that these constitute his entire defence. The facts stated by the defendant in this case in support of his defence that he had accounted for the money, were
simply cklculated to confuse the jury, without tending in any
way to show that he should not be charged with the sum in
controversy.
I am wholly unable to see that any injustice was done to
the defendant upon this trial, and think the judgment should
be affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR. JUSTICE GRAY took no part in

the decision of this case.

KENT 'v. LAKE SUPERIOR

SHIP CANAL, RAll-

WAY AND IRON O0MPANSTY.
APPEAL FROM THE bIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 149. Argued January 8, 1892. -Decided

March 14, 1892.

Remedy for error in a decree for the foreclosure and sale of property mortgaged to a trustee for the bbnefit of holders of bonds issued under the
mortgage, or in the sale un flr the decree, must be sought in the court
which rendered the decree and confirmed the sale.
A canal company which -had issued, several series of bonds; secured by
mortgages on its property, defaulted in the -payment of interest on all.
Bills were filed to foreclose the several trust deeds, and a receiver wat
appointed. On due notice to all parties receiver's certificates were issued
to a large amount for the benefit of the property, which certificates were
made a first lien upon it. The property was sold under a decree of foreclosure and sale, and the purchasers paid for the same in receiver's certificates, the amount of the bid being less than the amount of the issue
of such certificates. On a bill filed by a holder of bonds issued under
one of the mortgages foreclosed, Held,
(1) That his remedy sholid have been sought in the court which rendered the decree;

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
(2)

That the paramount lien of the receiver's certificates having been
recognized by the trustee of the mortgage under which the bonds
were issued, his action in that respect was, so far as appeared,
within the discretion reposed in him by his deed.

THIs was a bill in equity brought in the Supreme Court in
and for the county of Kings, New York, February 7,1884, by
Andrew Kent as executor and trustee of the last will and testament of Jonathan T. Wells, deceased, against the Lake
Superior Ship Canal, Railway and Iron Company; Theodore
M. Davis; Theodore M. Davis as receiver of the Ocean
National Bank of New York; J. Boorman Johnston, Isaac
EH. Knox and Gordon Norrie, being the surviving partners of
the firm of J. Boorman Johnston & Co.; Frederick Ayer, sole
surviving partner of the firm of J. C. Ayer & Co.; Frederick
F. Ayer, Josephine Ayer and Benjamin Dean, administrators,
with the will annexed, of the estate of James 0. Ayer,
deceased; and Thomas N. McCQrter; and subsequently removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of New York.
The bill alleged that July 6, 1864, the Portage Lake and
Lake Superior Shilp Canal Company was'organized as a corporation under the laws of Michigan for the purpose of constructing a ship canal to connect the waters of Portage Lake
and Lake Superior; that by an act of Congress, approved
March 3, 1865, two hundred thousand acres of public land
were granted to the State of Michigan "to aid in building a
harbor and ship canal at Portage Lake, Keweenaw Point,
Lake Superior," subject to the condition, among others, that
they should revert to the United States in case the said canal
and harbor should not be completed in two years from the
passage of the act; that by an act entitled "A bill to accept a
grant of land by act of Congress to aid in the construction of
the ship canal at the head of Portage Lake with Lake Superior, and to provide for the construction of the same," passed
March 16, 1865, by the legislature of Michigan, the grant was
accepted and conferred upon said Portage Lake and Lake
Superior Ship Canal Company, subject to the condition "that
non-of said lands shall be sold or otherwise disposed of, except

KENT v. LAKE SUPERIOR CANAL COMPANY.

77

Statement of the Case.

for the purposes of hypothecation, until said canal shall be
completed'as therein provided;" and that July 1, 1865, the
company executed a deed of trust conveying to 0. C. Douglas
and his successors its canal and franchises and the two hundred thousand acres of land to secure the payment of one thousand bonds of five hundred dollars each, John L. Sutherland
being thereafter substituted as trustee.
The bill further averred that by act of Congress, approved
July 3, 1866, a second two hundred thousand acres of land
were granted to the State of Michigan for the above purposes,
and it was provided by the act that this second grant should
enure to the use and benefit of the company in accordance
with the act of the Michigan legislature of March 16, 1865;
that July 1, 1868, thie company executed a deed of trust of the
second land grant, together with the equity in the canal and
other property already conveyed to Douglas in trust, to Martin and Davis, to whom Lucien Birdseye subsequently succeeded as trustee, to secure one thousand other bonds of five
hundred dollars each; and that Jonathan T. Wells purchased
eighty of these last-named bonds, and paid cash therefor, which
mcney was applied by the company irthe construction of the
harbor and canal. It was further alleged that July 1, 1870,
the company made its third deed of trust, conveying its canal
and the two land grants to Charles L, Frost, to secure twelve
hundred and fifty bonds of one thousand dollars each, two
hundred and fifty of which were paid, redeemed and cancelled
by the company by boids of a subsequent issue, known as the
"Union Trust bonds;" that Thomas N. McCarter succeeded
Frost as trustee, July 1, 1872; and that Wells became the
holder and owner of forty of the bonds secured by this third
trust deed. The bill continued that on or about April 29,
1871, the name of the company was changed to "The Lake
Superior Ship Canal, IRailroad and Iron Company," which on
May 1, 1871, became seized and poss.essed by.purchase of the
entrance canal by way of Portage River into Portage -Lake
with the franchises appertaining thereto, 'and also acquired
title to two hundred thousand acres of land or thereabouts,
situated in the State of Michigan, and known as-the "Wagon

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Road Lands;" that May 1, -1871, the company executed a deed
of trust to the Union Trust Company of New York as trustee,
conveying the canal with all rights and franchises thereunto
appertaining, and the six hundred thousand acres of land, to
secure the payment of bonds which the company proposed to
issue to the number of thirty-five hundred at one thousand
dollars each, of which there were afterwards issued and negotiated thirteen hundred and no more.
It was further averred that between 1865 and 1872 the company hypothecated certain of the bonds issued under the first
three deeds of trust, and during the years 1871 and 1872
hypothecated certain of the bonds issued under the fourth
deed of trust, and only a small proportion of the bonds of each
issue was ever sold outright by the company; that in November, 1871, and on January 18, 1872, the company defaulted in
the payment of the interest then due upon these bonds; and
that at that time large amounts of them were hefd by the
Ocean National Bank, Johnston & Co. and Ayer & Co. as
collateral to certain loans, which plaintiff charges were of
'doubtful legality, made by the parties to the canal company
at different times before the default, and it was claimed by
the com- aty that the bonds pledged as security for the loamns
-were issued unl4wfully, and in violation of the law of Michigan.
That in Dewmber, 1871, the Ocean National Bank failed,
and T. M. aas -was appointed its receiver; and among the
assets of the bank were bonds under -all the aforesaid & eds
of trust, but most of them were under the McCarte'tnd
Union Trust Company deeds; and that some of the bonas in
the possession of the bank were owned by it, but -by far the
larger part were held as collateral.
That prior to the default the company hau-selected with care
and at much expense the lands it wat, entitled to, and they were
regarded as of great prospective value, and those selected under,
the act of Congress of July S, 1866, were specially valuable.
That early in 1872, Davis, receiver, Johnston & Co. and
Ayer & Co. retained an attorney at Detroit to protect their
interests as creditors and bondholders of the company, and .to
act for and represent them in-prospective legal proceedings in

KENT v. LAKE SUPERIOR CANAL COMPANY.

79

Statement of the Case.

the United States courts for the Eastern District of Michigan
for the foreclosure of the deeds of trust, who was afterwards
retained and employed by Sutherland, Birdseye and McCarter,
and the Union Trust Company, trustees, as their solicitor to
foreclose the several trust deeds, which employment was by
Davis, receiver, Johnston & Co. and Ayer & Co., and upon
their retainer and in 'their interest, Without reference to the
interests of the other bondholders; and it was agreed between
them and the trustees that the foreclosure suits were to be
prosecuted under their directi6n and for their special benefit;
and to this end they indemnified the trustees against all loss
and damage by reason of anything which Davis, Johnston and
Ayer might do in the premises.
That on or about May 25, 1872, a bill was filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Michigan in the name of Sutherland, trustee, by said solicitor,
to foreclose the trust deed of July 1, 1865, and the company,
Birdseye, Frost and the Union Trusf Company, as trustees,
were made parties defendant. As Birdseye was a citizen of
New York, it was alleged that Sutherland, who was also a
citizen of New York, was a citizen of New Jersey; that on or
about June 13, 1872, one Knox was appointed receiver, and it
was admitted by Birdseye's solicitors that Sutherland was a
citizen and resident of New Jersey, though plaintiff charges
that the admission extended only to the, order appointing the
receiver, and that the Circuit Court was afterwards shown by
the pleadings and proofs to have no jurisdiction therein, and
had none in fact; that on June-17, 1872, an order was made
empowering the receiver to execute an instrument to F. D.
Tappan, as trustee, to secure certificates of indebtedness
authorized to be issued for the purpose of completing the
construction of the canal, and certificates were issued to the
amount of' about $640,000, which were purchased by Johnston & Co. and Ayer & Co., $500,000 of the issue being sold
at the rate of seventy-five cents on the dollar, and the remainder at the rate of sixty cents on the dollar, though twentyfive per cent discount was the limitation prescribed; and that
all this was in the interest of Davis, Johnston and Ayer.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

The bill further averred that on August 27, 1872, the company was adjudicated a bankrupt by the Michigan District
Court, and Jerome and Beaman were appointed assignees,
who on January 3, 1873, by supplemental bill, were made
parties to the Sutherland suit, as was McCarter, trustee. It
was further stated that on July 3,, 1872, a bill was filed in the
Circuit Court in the name of MvcCarter, trustee, by the same

'solicitor, to foreclose the trust deed of July 1, 1870, and the
company and the Union Trust Company were made parties
defendant, as were the assignees, January 13, 1873.
The bill also alleged that on July 5, 1872, a bill was filed in
the Circuit Court in the name of Birdseye, trustee, by the
same solicitor, to foreclose the trust deed of July 1, 1868, and
the company, McCarter, trustee, and the Union Trust Company were made parties defendant.. This bill set up the appointment of Knox as receiver, his taking possession of the
property, the issue by him of certificates of indebtedness to
the amount of $500,000, and that the certificates were made,
by order of court, a paramount lien upon the canal and all
the property of the company; and prayed that the certificates
might first be ratably paid from the proceeds of the sales of
-the lands acquired by the Sutherland and Birdseye deeds of
trust; and Plaintiff charged that this recognition of the certificaites was entirely unauthorized and never ratified by Wells.
It was further alleged that on August 5, 1872, Birdseye,
trustee, filed an answer in the Sutherland suit in which he set up
the defence of want of jurisdiction, in that Sutherland was not
a citizen of New Jersey, but of New York, and it was stated
that this was shown in 18.74 by the testimony of Sutherland..
The bill.then charged that the Circuit Court did not obtain
jurisdiction or power over the Birdseye lands or the bondholders-secured thereby, so as to enable the court to extend
the lien of the receiver's certificates over those lands, or make
them a prior or paramount lien thereon; that neither Wells
nor any other of the Birdseye boficdholders, except those represented by the aforesaid solicitor, were parties to the Sutherland suit,- and Birdseye was not authorized nor empowered to
represent them in respect thereto' that Birdseye allo-4ed the

KENT

v. LAKE SUPERIOR CANAL COMPANY.

81

Statement of the Case.

paramount lien to be apparently imposed upon the lands he
represented, but failed to apprise the bondholders of the action
of the court, although he knew such. action was to be brought
about in the interest of some bondholders to the sacrifice of
that of the others; and that the nominal amount of the certificates was illegally increased for the purpose of making the
indebtedness as large as possible, so as to obtain the entire
property of the company and destroy the interest of the other
bondholders; and that, although the accounts of the receiver
were afterwards audited ahd confirmed by the court, Wells
was not bound thereby.
That the Birdseye and McCarter trust deeds provided for
the release of lands upon the delivery of bonds for cancellation at thb rate of five dollars per acre; that on or about
August 11, 1873, Wells deposited forty bonds secured by the
McCarter trust deed for one thousand dollars each, with Birds-,
eye, as trustee, and at the same time tendered to him for cancellation eighty bonds for five hundred dollars each, secured
by the Birdseye trust deed, and received froin him a release of
eight thousand acres of land from the incumbrance and operation of that trust deed, except only a lien to the amount of the
bonds tendered, or that the amount of said bonds became immediately due and payable; and that eight thousand Acres'
became released from the lien of any other of the deeds of
"trust, and the remainder of the property became discharged
from any lien for the eighty thousand dollars.
It was further'alleged that in September, 1873,the assignees
in bankruptcy filed a bill in the Circuit Court against Sutherland, Birdseye, trustee, Mcarter and the Union Trust Company, as trtistees, Wells, F. D. Tappan..and others, whi6h set
forth in detail the matters relating to the release of August 11,
1873, and prayed that it might be declared valid and of the.
legal effect 'charged in the bill; that the proceedings'in the
foreclosure suits might be stayed; and that the Sutherland
suit, with this bill treated as a supplemental- bill or cross-bill,
might proceed regularly to a decree, contsining the manner
in which the property covered by the several trust deeds should
be offered for sale, etc.
VOL. Cx.LTV-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

That Sutherland, McCarter, and Tappan, trustees, appeared
in this last-mentioned suit by the same solicitor and answered.;
that Birdseye, trustee, also appeared, and, in his answer,
admitted and realleged the allegations contained in the bill
relating to the claims of Wells under the release; that defendant Wells appeared, and on or about December 30, 1874, his
solicitor stipulated that the bill filed by the assignees be taken
pro confesso against him; that issue was joined and a large
amount of testimony was taken and filed in the several suits
referred to; but that none of the testimony had any bearing
on the effect of the release, and its validity was admitted upon
the record.
It was then charged that during the latter part of 1876 and
the early part of 1817 the solicitor of Davis, Johnston and
Ayer, and other parties interested with them, "entered into a
fraudulent conspiracy for the purpose of procuring from said
Circuit Court the entry of a decree, by means of which the
interest of said Jonathan T. Wells in said eight thousand acres
of land should be divested, and the value of his said bonds
destroyed, and the entire property and assets of said the Lake
Superior Ship Canal, Railroad and Iron Company vested in
the parties in this article mentioned to the exclusion of said
Wells;" that it was agreed, upon the sale of the property, to
be made in pursuance of the proposed decree, that it should
be purchased by Wilson and Man, as trustees, for the benefit
of the parties to the said fraudulent decree; that a company
should be organized, under the laws of Michigan, for the purpose of taking and holding the property formerly held by the
canal company; and that, upon the completion of said transfer the parties to said agreement would endeavor to sell the
property to English capitalists, and, failing in this, the stock
should be divided between the parties to the agreement.'
That in pursuance of this scheme, the solicitor represented
to the Circuit Judge that an arrangement had been made to
sell the whole property of the canal company to English
capitalists for a sum sufficient to pay the entire debts of that
company, and that to carry out this agreement it was necessary to sell the whole property of the company under a decree

KENT

. LAKE SUPERIOR CANQAL COMP'A-NY.

83

Statement of the Case.

of the court, and that such decree would be satisfactory to all
parties interested; that by these representations, without any'
notice to Wells or his solicitor, an order was obtained from the
judge, at his house, February 12, 1877, that the bill ified by
Jerome and Beaman be treated as a cross-bill -in the Sutherland, the Birdseye and' the Union. Trust Company foreclosure
suits, and that the four causes be heard together uppn the
pleadings and proofs in all, and at the same time and place a
decree was signed by Judge Emmbns, entitled in the four
suits, which contained the following clause:
"Twenty-flrst. It is hereby ordered, adjudged and decreed,
that the attenpt of the defendant, Jonathan T. Wells, to redeem or obtain release of certain lands from the lien of the
mortgage of the first of July, 1868, and the alleged release of
said land by Lucien Birdseye, trustee, as set forth in said crosscomplaint, having taken place after the institution of the suit
for the foreclosure of said mortgage, were and are ineffectual
and void."
That the decree further adjudged that the receiver's certificates for the amount of $931,478 -principal and interest were a first lien upon the canal and the first and, second land
grants, but not a lien upon the third land grant, and required
that the lands covered by the Birdseye mortgage -should be
sold separately, and gave various directions as to the method
to be adopted by the master for distributing the proceeds;
that the sale was advertised under the decree in but one paper,
and that a village newspaper of limited circulation, and the
parties refused to advertise more extensively; that they gave
no notice of the terms of sale; that they required at the sale
the whole amount of the purchase money to be paid at once,
without giving the purchaser. any opportunity to examine the
title, and refused to sell the second land grant separately;
that at the sale thus conducted, Man and Wilson bought the
entire property of the canal company for $550,000, which
they phid in receiver's certificates; that the master's report
was confirmed before the'expiration of the usual time, upon a
representation to the solicitors of the other parties that this
was necessary to the consummation of a sale to the English

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

capitalists; that they then, in combination with the other
members of the-party, formed a new company, which is one
of the demurring defendants; and that they conveyed all the
property of the old company to the new corporation, which
had notice of the fraud, paid no new consideration and took
title subject to the rights of. Wells.
It was also alleged that Wells died in Brooklyn, New York,
on October 16, 1881, at the age of about eighty-two years, and
that "for three years and upwards immediately preceding his
death he was feeble in body and mind, and by reason thereof
was unable to travel to Michigan, where the litigation hereinbefore referred to was carried on, or to give his personal attention to his interests therein;" that in March, 1879, Wells
transferred his property to James H. Gilbert for the benefit of
himself and his legal representatives, and "knowledge of the
making and entry of said decree was first acquired by said
Jonathan Tremaine Wells and by said James H. Gilbert,
trustee as aforesaid, during the month of May, 1879; that it
has been exceedingly difficult and has required much time to
ascertain the facts in relation to the proceedings herein related
on account not only of the many and protracted litigations,"
but especially of the efforts "made by the parties to the fraud
aforesaid to suppress everything tending to throw light upon
their transactions and .to hamper and impede investigation by
withholding or concealing whatever might give information
to Wells or his representatives."
The bill also set forth that on March 10, 1882, a petition
was filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan, on behalf of Gilbert, trustee, as
aforesaid, and an application for relief against said last-mentioned decree was made thereon; and that this application
was heard by the Honorable Stanley Matthews, one of the
judges of the Circuit Court, and an order made denying it,
"but without prejudice to the merits of the application or proceedings to be taken thereafter in the interest of the estate of
said Jonathan Tremaine Wells."
The forty-first paragraph of the bill alleged that after the
execution of the Birdseye release McCarter became seized of

KENT v. LAKE SUPERIOR -CANAL COMPA NY.

85

Statement of the Case.

the eight thousand acres described in the release, in fee simple,
in -trust for Wells, and in further trust to sell said lands and
pay Wells the eighty thousand dollars and interest; that it
was his duty, as trustee, tQ cause the said lands to be suitably
advertised, and to use diligence to prevent the creation of any
lien prior to that of Wells; that Davis, Johnston and Ayer
took upon themselves the performance of the duties of said
trust; that said land at the time of the sale was worth at
least $150,000, and that amount could have been realized with
reasonable diligence; that they became trustees for Wells and
had no right to buy said lands; that they did buy them and
caused them to be conveyed to the company, and have sold a
portion of said lands to bonafte purchasers for value and received the purchase money; and "that they and said company
have thus become and are liable to pay to this plaintiff the full
amount due upon the bonds aforesaid, to wit, the sum of eighty
thousand dollars, with interest as aforesaid."
The forty-second paragraph stated that the plaintiff was
without remedy unless he could set aside the alleged fradulent
decree.
The bill prayed that the decree of February 12, 18V7, might
be adjudged void so far as the release to Wells. was concerned,
and so far as the receiver's certificates'were made a paramount
lien or given any right of- prior payment, or any validity as
payment, as against Wells's bonds and release; that the eight
thousand acres released be "adjudged to be held in trust for
Wells; that plaintiff be declared to succeed to all of Wells's
rights, and be decreed a paramount lien on the eight thousand
acres for eighty thousand dollars'and interest; for an account
of profits in dealing with the property held in trust for Wells;
for an injunction; and for a money decree against the defendants for said sum of eighty thousand dollars and interest; and
for general ielief.
Copies of the various trust deeds, of the release, of the orders and decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Nidhigan, and of agreements in relation
to the purchase of the lands, etc., were attached.
The cause was heard on demurrer to the bill before Mr.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

Justide Blatchford, holding the Circuit Court, who sustained
the demurrers and dismissed the bill, whereupon the cause was
brought to this court on appeal.
)1&. Everet P. 'Wheeler(with whom was .Mr. John Cumnins
on the brief) for appellant.

The facts alleged in the complaint charged a fraudulent
conspiracy, carried to a conclusion by certain legal forms, the
parties contriving and benefiting by the conspiracy being
bondholders who, by a series of fraudulent manceuvres in the
Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, succeeded
in depriving the plaintiff of the general and specific liens given
him under. the Birdseye and McCarter mortgages. They eibtained the mortgaged property themselves by the familiar
device of issuing receiver's certificates at a ruinous discount,
selling the mortgaged property on foreclosure, and buying it
and paying for it in such receiver's certificates. As part of
this conspiracy the plaintiff charges that these bondholders
were acting in the name of Birdseye, who was trustee under
the first mortgage on the second land grant, that they therefore bwed a duty to Wells to protect his interest, that they
violated this duty by admitting the validity and priority of the
receiver's certificates as a lien on the second land grant, and
by obtaining a decree against Wells from the Circuit Court
for the Eastern District of Michigan. This decree was in contradiction of the admissions in the cross-bill, was not based
upon or in any way supported by any testimony taken in any
of the actions, was in fraud of the plaintiff's rights, and obtained secretly, collusively, by misrepresentation to the court,
and without notice to the plaintiff, though he was a party to
the action.
The complainant's remedy grows out of the fraud. His
right arises out of the errors committed to his prejudice. His
complaint asks that so much of this decree so obtained as adjudged that the release by Birdseye was invalid, and that the
receiver's certificates were a prior lien, be adjudged fraudulent and void, and that the title acquired under it by defend-

KENT v. LAKE SUPERIOR CANAL COMPANY.

87

4rgument for Appellant.

ants be adjudged to be in trust for plaintiff and that they
account, etc. The demurrers admit that the allegations of the
complaint are true. If they be true, there can be. no question
but that at some time and in some proceeding, they constituted a cause of action, and entitled the plaintiff to relief from
the said decree. The only question is. now whether at this
time and in this proceeding, the facts set forth entitle the
plaintiff to the relief he seeks; or to any relief.
An original bill to impeach the jfidgment was the proper
form of proceeding. The decree was fraudulent and erroneous. The plaintiff's only remedy was by original bill to impeach it. The term at which the decree was entered expired
before the fraud and eiror were discovered. Under these circumstances the remedy was by original bill. WTright v. .Miller, 1 Sandf. Oh. (N. Y.) 103; Evans v. Bacon, 99 Mass. 213;
Johnson v. Johnson, 30 Illinois, 215; Sanford v. Bead, 5 California, 297; Bradish v: Gee, 1 Ambler, 229; Pemberton's
Case, 40 N. J. Eq. (13 Stewart) 520. This bill need not be
filed in the same court which rendered the decree complained
of. A court of equity has jurisdiction of a suit to impeach for
fraud a decree rendered by another court. Arrowsmith v. Gleason, 129 U. S. 86; Gaines v. Fuentes, 92 U. S. 10, 20; -De-Forest v. Thompson, 40 Fed. Rep. 375 ; Wilmore v. -lack, 96 N. Y.
512; .Dobson v. Pearce,12 N. Y. 156; S. C. 62 Am. Dec. 152.
The true reason for this rule is that the court of equity, in
reference to actions of this description, does not sit as a court
of review. Its acts inpersonam, and wherever it can find +.-"
parties guilty of fraud, takes from them benefits which they
have procured thereby. The jurisdiction to do this rests on
the solid foundation that fraud vitiates all proceedings, whether
apparently judicial or otherwise, and that a fraudulent judgment is really no judgment at all. Earl of Bandon v. Becher,
3 01. & Fin. 479.
So in Johnson v. Waters, 111 U. S. 640, 667, Mr. Justice
Bradley says: "The most solemn transactions and judgments
may at the instance of the parties be set aside for fraud..
In such cases the court does not act as a court of review, nor
does it inquire into any irregularities or errors of proceeding

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

in another court; but it will scrutinize the acts of the parties,
and if it finds that they hve been guilty of fraud in obtaining
a judgment or decree it will deprive them of the benefit of it
and of any inequitable advantage which they have derived
under it." See also Gaines v. Fuentes, 92 U. S.10, 22; Barrow v. -Hunton,
99 U. S. 80, 83; fetropolitan El. R'y Co. v.
nMahattanR'y Co., 14 Abb. N. C. 103, 216; Kennedy v. Daly,
1 Sch. & Lef. 355, 374.
This is especially true where parties have misled the court
by false statements. Vadala v. Lawes, 25 Q. B. D. 310;
Aboulof v. Oppenheimer, 10 Q. B. D. 295.
iI&. John _E Parsons for appellees.
MiR. CHIEF JusTic-E Fuim.r, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

By this bill plaintiff, as succeeding to the rights of Wells,
seeks relief in respect of so much of the decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Michi-

gan of February 12, 1877, as adjudged that the release by
Birdseye was invalid, and the receiver's certificates a prior
lien.
It appears that the canal company defaulted in the payment of interest due upon its several issues of bonds; that
bills were filed to foreclose the trust deeds securing them; that
receiver's certificates were issued by order of court; that a
decree was entered in all the causes heard as one cause; and

that the property was advertised and sold under the decree.
The right to a decree and sale cannot be controverted, and
at the sale any or all the bondholders had the right to buy.

If thiere was error in the decree, or in the sale, the remedy of
plaintiff was in the court which rendered the decree and confirmed the sale. Blossom v. Xilwaukee Railroad Co., 1 Wall.
655 ; Christmas v. Russell, 5 Wall. 290, 305 ; Michaels v. Post,
21"Wall. 398, 427; Robinson v. Iron Raiway Co., 135 U. S.
522, 531. Application was made to that court and was
denied, but no further step was taken.

KENT v. LAKE SUPERIOR CANAL COMPANY.

89

Opinion of the Court.

Suit to foreclose was commenced by Sutherland, May 25,
18T2, the trustees in the other trust deed, Birdseye, Frost and
the Trust Company being parties defendant. The receiver
was appointed in this suit June 13, 1872, and on June 17 the

order was entered for the issue of the certificates for the purpose of completing the construction of the canal. This order
declared "that the indebtedness created by said receiver's certificates shall constitute a first and paramount lien over all
other liens and incumbrances upon the ship canal, real and
personal property, and franchises of said defendant corporation,
and on all the future earnings and income thereof, and shall
be entitled to priority and payment over all other claims out
of said real and personal property, earnings and income, etc..;
and in case said canal, real and personal estate, and franchises
or any part thereof shall be sold under and in pursuance of
any judicial decree said certificates of indebtedness remaining
unpaid shall first be paid out of the proceeds of sale," etc.
"Under the .provisions of the acts of Congress granting the
lands covered by the mortgages," said Mr. Justice Strong,
speaking for the court in Jerome v. 3fcCarter, 94 U. S. 734,
738, "the lands reverted to the United States, unless the ship
canal should be finished within a fixed period, and that period
was passing away when the order was granted to the receiver
to raise money for completing the canal by the issue of certificates secured by his mortgage. The canal was unfinished, and
there were in the receiver's hands no funds to finish it. Hence
there .was a necessity for making the order which the court
made - a necessity attending the administration of the trust
the court had undertaken. The. order was necessary alike for
the 'lien creditors and for the mortgagors. Whether the
action of the court could make the redeiver's mortgage supErior in right to the mortgages which existed when it was'
made, it is needlels to inquire. None of the creditors secured
by those other mortgages objected to the order when it was
made, though they were all then in court. None of* them
object to its lien or its priority now."
Johnston & Co. and Ayer & Co. purchaqed the certificates
thus issued for the construction of the canal.

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

On July 5, 1872, Birdseye, trustee, filed a bill to foreclose
his trust deed. August 11, 1873, Birdseye executed the release
to Wells. Neither Johnston & Co. nor Ayer, & Co. nor the
receiver were in any way parties or assented to this release.
It was given a year after the order for the issue of the certificates was entered, as we have said, in a suit to which Birdseye, trustee, and Frost, trustee, (succeeded by McCarter,) were
parties.
In _Richter v. Jerome, 123 U. S. 233, 246, a bill was filed by
Richter as the holder of two hundred and thirty of the bonds
issued under the fourth trust deed, and it was charged that
other bondholders had conspired to obtain the mortgaged
premises, and that the solicitor who foreclosed was their
attorney. This court said, Mr. Chief Justice Waite delivering
the opinion: "All the rights the bondholders have or ever
had in the mortgage, legal or equitable, they got through the
Trust Company, to which the conveyance was made for their
security. As bondholders claiming under the iportgage, they
can have no interest in the security except that which the
trustee holds and represents. If the trustee acts in good faith,
whatever binds it in any legal proceedings it begins and
carries on to enforce the trust, to which they are not actual
parties binds them. Herrison v. Stewart, 93 U. S. 155, 160;
Corcoran v. Chesapeake &c. Canal Co., 94 U. S. 741, 745;
Shaw v. -RailroadCo., 100 U. S. 605, 611. Whatever forecloses the trustee, in the absence of fraud or bad faith, forecloses them."
The paramount lien of the certificates was recognized by
Birdseye in the bill exhibited by him, and his action, so far as
appears, was within the discretion reposed in him by his deed.
August 27, 1872, the company was adjudicated a bankrupt,
and in September, 1873, its assignees filed their bill, setting up
the facts relating to the Birdseye release and praying to have
it declared valid, to which Wells appeared and stipulated that
the bill might be taken pro confesso against him; but Birdseye, trustee, McCarter, trustee, the Union Trust Company,
trustee, Tappan, trustee for the certificate holders, and others,
were parties, and Wells could not cut off their rights or create

KENT v. LAKE SUPERIOR CANAL COMPANY.

91

Opinion of the Court.

rights in his own favor, by admission. The decree complained
of covered this suit as well as the others, and the question of
the operation and effect of the release was raised upon the
pleadings.
Upon what ground can another court rescind the decree, or
set aside the sale, because either is erroneous?
Wells clearly could not insist upon matters which he had or
could have insisted upon, prior to the decree, or upon the
motion to confirm the sale. If the confirmation were without
notice, he should have applied to the court which entered the
order.
Neither Birdseye nor McCarter, the trustees under whose
deeds the bonds were issued which Wells held, are charged
with fraud or any conduct in bad faith, and neither is a party
to this bill.
The matters alleged to be fraudulent are the steps taken to
have the property foreclosed and the purchase thereon ensuing, and what is charged is that the holders of large amounts
of the bonds and of all the receiver's certificates combined to
bring about the foreclosure and to make the purchase.
Epithets do not make out fraud, and the averments are substantially of legal conclusions not admitted by the demurrers,
-Fogg v. Blair, 139 U. S. 118, 127, and in themselves insufficient as stating a case of fraud practised directly upon Wells
and preventing him from seeking redress in the premises. The
case attempted to be made was not a new one arising upon
new facts, but one involving matters which the court was, or
might have been, called upon to determine. And if, as asserted by his counsel, appellant's "remedy grows out of the
fraud, his right arises out of the errors committed to his prejudice," then the remedy ought to have been sought in the
court which rendered.the decree and confirmed the sale. This,
if there were error in respect of the certificates and the release,
(which forms the basis of plaintiff's claim;) but if none were
committed, then relief through the enforcement of a lien
upon eight thousand acres, and adjudging the same or the
profits therefrom to be held in trust for Wells, or through a
money decree in lieu thereof, could not be awarded.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Nor do we think that plaintiff has any better standing by
reason of the allegation that the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Michigan had no jurisdiction of the utherland suit,
because Sutherland was not a citizen of New Jersey, but was
a citizen of the same State as Birdseye. This defence was
interposed by Birdseye, in his answer, and was determined
against him. That determination cannot be questioned here.
Moreover, to the consolidated suit, Wells was himself a party
as were the trustees named in the various trust deeds, and all
were bound by the decree and the subsequent proceedings
thereunder.
Suggestion is made in argument that plaintiff was entitled,
under the prayer for general relief, to invoke the aid of the
court to let him in to share in the benefits of defendants' purchase, but it is sufficient to say that such relief would not be
conformable to the case made by the bill.
The demurrers were properly sustained, and the decree is

Afflrmed.

In re HEATH, Petitioner.
ORIGInAL.
No Number. Argued February 1, 1892.-Decided March 21, 1892.

This court has no appellate jurisdiction over judgments of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia in criminal cases.

THOMAs H. HEATH was convicted of manslaughter at a special criminal term of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, and sentenced to be confined in the penitentiary at
Albany, 'New York. Upon appeal to the general term of that
court the judgment was affirmed, whereupon he applied for a
writ of error from this court-.
The petition was originally presented to the Chief Justice;
and, by order duly made, referred to the court in session for
the consideration and determination of the question of jurisdiction arising thereon.

