OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

could such a motion be made in the Circuit Court, as final
judgment precluded the transfer.
We are of opinion that the motion to remand should have
been sustained, and, therefore,
Reverse the judgment, and remand the case to the Circuit
Court with directions to send it back to the District Court
for the ,ffth judicial district, Stutsman County, Xorth
Dakota, and to return the originaliles to that court.

POPE MANUFACTURINOG COMPATY v. GOIRMULLY.
APPERAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLIN(IS.
No. 204.

Argued March 9, 10, 1892. -Decided

April 4, 1892.

A court of equity will not enforce the specific performance of a contract
wherein the defendant, in consideration of 'eceiving a license to use
certain patents belonging to the plaintiff during the life of such patents,
agrees never to import, manufacture or sell any machines or devices
covered by certain other patents, unless permitted in writing so to do,
nor to dispute or contest the validity of such patents or plaintVi's title
thereto, and further to aid and morally assist the plaintiff in maintaining
public respect for and preventing infringements upon the same, and further agrees that if, after the termination of his license, he shall continue
to make, sell or use any machine or part thereof containing such
patented inventions, the plaintiff shall have the right to treat him as an
infringer, and to sue out an injunction against him without notice.

THis was an appeal from a decree dismissing a bill in equity,
wherein the plaintiff sought an accounting upon a contract,
and an injunction prohibiting the defendant from manufacturing and selling bicycles and tricycles containing certain patented devices, in violation of a contract entered into between
the parties on December 1, 1884. A copy of this contract is
printed in the margin.'
I This agreement made this first day of December, 1884, by and between
the Pope Manufacturing Company, a corporation established under the laws
of Connecticut and having a place of business in Boston, Massachusetts,

POPE M'F'G

0O1PA-NY v. GORMULLY.

Statement of the Case.

The bill alleged that the plaintiff was engaged in the manufacture and sale of bicycles and tricycles of superior quality,
party of the first part, and P. Philip Gormully, of Chicago, Illinois, party
of the second part, witnesseth:
That whereas letters patent of the United States, numbered and dated as
in the following list, were duly granted for the inventions therein set forth,
and by certain good and valid assignments the same are now owned by the
party of the first part:
(Here follows a descriptive list of sixty-five patents.)
And whereas said party of the s~cond part .is desirous of making, using
and selling to others to be used bicycles embodying. in their construction
and modes of operation certain of the said inventions, and of securing
license thereof under certain of said letters. patent : Now, therefore, in
consideration of one dollar by the party of the second part to the party of
the first part, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, and in further
consideration of the covenants, agreements and stipulations hereinafter
as follows:
contained, said parties have consented and agreed
First. The party of the first part agrees to license, and does hereby
license, the party of the second part, subject to the conditions and provisions herein named, to manufacture at the shop or factory of the party of
.the second part, in-Chicago, in the State of Illinois, and in no other place
or places; bicycles of fifty-two-inch size and upwards, of such quality, construction, grade and finish as to be sold in the market at retail prices not
greater than eighty per cent of the retail list prices of the Standard Colunmbia bicycles of same or nearest similar sizes and styles, severally embodying
the inventions set forth in those of the said letters patent numbered, (here
follow the numbers of fifteen patents,) or either of them or either claim
thereof and no"others, so far as applicable within the conditions and restrictions herein contained, and to sell said bicycles to.others to be used, and to
use the same within and throughout the United States and the Territ,'ries
thereof. This license is not to be understood'or construed as a license to
import, manufacture, buy, sell or deal in bicycles or tricycles, or in pedals,
saddles, springn, rims, bearings or other patented parts thereof otherwise
than as herein expressly stipulated. This license is nQt transferable, and is
in addition to and not to modify or supersede previous ones except as herein"
expressed.
Second. The party of the second part hereby agrees to maintain a suitable place of business in said Chica~o, and to keep there on hand a stock of
bicycles as above referred to, and to promote and aid in extencling the interest in bicycling and tricydling and the use bf bicycles among those not
already wheelmen, and to advertise the business by occupying and paying for
one-page space continuously during the term of this license in the monthly
magazine published by the Wheelman Company of Boston, Massachusetts,
and to a reasonable extent to other publications of general circulation, and
to advertise that it is licensed by the Pope Manufacturing Company.
VOL. CXLIV-15

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

that these machines embodied in their construction inventions
covered by letters patent owned by the plaintiff; that in purThird. The party of the second part agrees to keep at its place of business full, true and correct books of account, open at all reasonable times
to the party of the first part and to its delegate, in which shall be set down
all bicycles made or sold by the party of the second part, with the name or
description, size, style and number thereof, and the names and addresses of
the parties to whom sold.
Fourth. 'The party of the second part agrees to make full and true returns in writing to the party of the first part on or before the tenth day of
each calendar month in each year, beginning with the 10th day of January,
A.D. 1885, of all bicycles (and whether any or not) made, used or sold in
the United States by the party of the second part during the preceding calendar month, with the size, style, number, name, or description, and make
of the said machines and the names and addresses of the purchasers, and
also of such machines held in stock by the party of the second part at the
end of the said preceding month, said returns to be made under oath whenever
required by the party of the first part, and to pay the royalties or license
fees as herein stipulated on or before the. said tenth day of each of said
months, on all said bicycles used or sold by them or removed from their
said factory or place of business in the preceding month.
. Fifth. The party of the second part agrees to pay to the party of
the
first part the sum of ten dollars upon and for each and every bicycle in
whole or in part made by or for it at any time prior to the 1st day of April,
A.D. 1886, or the termination of this license, as part license fees or part royalties under said several letters patent or such or eitler claim thereof as
may be used, and as part of the consideration for this agreement; and it is
agreed that the party of the second part shall so pay to the party of the
first part, under this license and agreement, at least the sum of one thousand dollars within and for each and any consecutive twelve calendar
months during the continuance of this license.
Sixth. The party of the second part agrees, to sell said bicycles at retail
and not to sell the same or any of them to any person or party, either
directly or indirectly, except upon such terms and at such prices as shall be
satisfactory to the party of the first part and as shall first be submitted to
and approved by the said party of the first part, such written submission of
rates, terms and prices, with the said approval, to be taken as and to form
a part of this agreement, and not to have or sell through any agent or
agents in any other place than the said Chicago, nor pay or allow freight
beyond the said Chicago, nor any bonus, rebate, allowance or commission
on sales or from prices except as expressly agreed in writing between the
parties hereto.
Seventh. The party of the second part agrees to mark or stamp in a
legible manner the word "patented" on each machine made or sold under
this license, together with the date or dates of the patents under which each

POPE M'F'G COMPANY v. GORMULLY.

227

Statement of the Case.

suance of a plan adopted by it, it reserved to itself the right to
manufacture and sell the highest grades, and among others a
machine is made or sold, a list of such patents to be furnished by the party
of.the first part.
Eighth. The party of the second part hereby expressly admits the validity of the several letters patent hereinbefore mentioned, and of each and
every claim thereof, and the title of the party of the first part thereto; and
further admits specifically that the following inventions are embodied in
the "Ideal" bicycle and the " Standard Columbia" bicycle and the ":Expert
Columbia" bicycle, as follows, to wit: (a) the invention claimed in the
second clause of claim of said patent, R. 3297, in the saddles of said bicycle,
and their connection therewith; (b) the invention claimed in the third clause
of claim of the last-named patent in the cranks of said bicycles; (c) the invention claimed in the fourth clause of claim of said last-named patent in
the backbones and rear forks of bicycles; (d) the invention claimed in third
clause of claim of said patent No. 85,527 in the leg-guard of said bicycle;
(f) the invention claimed in second clause of claim of 'said patent 86,834 in
the brake mechanism of said bicycles and its connections; (g) the invention
claimed in the third clause of claim of said patent 86,834 in the steering head
of the said bicycles and its connections; (h) the invention claimed in the
fifth clause of claim of said patent 87,713 in the tires of the wheels of said
bicycles; (i) the inventions claimed in the third clause of claim of said
patent No. 8,507 in the front forks of said Expert; (j) the inventions
claimed in the fourth clause of claim of said last-named patent in the pedals
of said bicycles; (k) the inventions claimed in the claim of letters patent
No. 194,980 in the balance gear and its connections in the "Columbia" and
"Victor" tricycles; (1) the invention claimed in the second clause of claim
of said patent No. 197,289 as embodied in the ball bearings of said Expert
bicycle and Victor tricycle and in 11 olus" ball pedals; and further admits
that any machines or part of machines constructed in a substantially similar
manner are or would be infringements of said claims respectively; and
these admissions are unqualified and may at any time hereafter be pleaded
or proved in estoppel of theparty of the second part.
Ninth. The party of the second part agrees that it will not import, manufacture or sell, either directly or indirectly, any bicycle, tricycle or other
velocipede, or the pedals, saddles, bearings, rims or other patented parts
or devices containing any of the inventions or claims in either of the hereinbefore-recited letters patent, nor make, use or sell, directly or indirectly,
either (a) backbones bifurcated for a rear wheel, or (b) balance gear allowing two wheels abreast, differing speeds on curves, or (c) bearings containing balls or rollers and laterally adjustable, or (d) brakes combined with
the handle bars and front wheel, or (e) cranks adjustable to different lengths
of throw, or (f) forks of tubular construction, or (g) mud-shield for steering wheels, constructed to turn within the wheel, or (h) pedals that are
polygonal or offering two or more sides for tle foot, or (i) round contrac.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

style of bicycle known as the Standard Columbia bicycle; that
under the agreement entered into with the defendant the lattile rubber tires in grooved rims or rims containing or adapted for rubber
or elastic tires, or (j) saddles adjustable fore and aft, or (k) saddles having
a flexible seat and means of taking up the slack, or (1) steering heads, open
or cylindrical, with stop for complete turning, or (m) leg-guards over front
wheel, or (n) rims of wrought metal tubing and adapted to receive a tire,
or (o) rims composed of sheet metal with overlapping edges, or (p) wheels
containing hollow metallic rim and rubber tires, or (q) steering spindle and
fork inclined to each other at an angle, or (r) two speed or power gears, or
(s) "Tangent" spokes or "Warwick" rims, or (t) any other device or
invention secured by either of these patents, other than according to the
permission, conditions and description in paragraph numbered "first" in
this agreement or as otherwise agreed in writing with the party of the first
part, nor in any way, either directly or indirectly, dispute or contest the
validity of the letters patent hereinbefore mentioned, or either of them or
the title thereto of the party of the first part, but will aid and morally assist
the party of the first part in maintaining public respect for and preventing
infringements upon the same.
Tenth. If and whenever the party of the first part shall reduce the royalties on bicycles of similar sizes, construction and grade, to any other
licensee, the above-named royalties shall be reduced in like manner and proportion to the party of the second part, and-the party of the first part will
immediately notify the party of the second part of any such reduction of
royalties.
The party of the second part may sell said herein-licensed bicycles to
regular agents and dealers in the trade and doing business as such in any
part of the United States at discounts from the said retail list prices not
exceeding twenty-five per cent in any case, and to the smaller agents not
exceeding fifteen per cent, it being understood and agreed.that said discount
of not exceeding twenty-five per cent may be allowed only to our,(one?)
dealer in each or either of the following cities: New York, N.Y.; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Boston, Massachusetts; Baltimore, Maryland; St.
Louis, Missouri; San Francisco, California; St. Paul, Minnesota; and.'one
city in the Southern States, and to two dealers in Chicago, Illinois. Said
party of the second part also agrees to keep the retail list prices fixed, and
not to allow said licensed bicycles to be sold at retail-at less than said retail
prices, either by his own concern or by agents or dealers.
The party of the second part may sell the said licensed bicycles outside
of the United States for actual use in foreign parts without the herein-contained restrictions as to prices and discounts, and upon sdtisfactory evidence
of such export and foreign sale of said bicycles there shall be allowed a
rebate or credit of one-half of said royalties thereon.
Eleventh. If and whenever the party of the second part shall fail to
make returns or to make payments as herein provided, or shall violate or

POPE

M'F'G COMPANY v. GOBIMULLY.
Statement of the Case.

ter was granted the right to make, use and sell bicycles 52
inches in size and upwards, and of certain style and finish, and
fail to keep and perform the terms, conditions, promises or agreements or
either of them herein mentioned on his part to be kept and performed, the
party of the first part may withdraw and terminate this license and the
agreements on its part mentioned to be kept and performed, by notifying
the party of the second part in writing that the license herein contained
has been revoked, and the party of the first part may in like manner revoke
this-license whenever the reported sales by the party of the second part for
any consecutive twelve calendar months shall be less than one hundred
machines. The party of the second part may surrender the license herein
contained at any time by written notice to that effect and the returning of
this contract to the party of the first part; but no such revocation or surrender, and no termination of this contract or any part of it, shall release or
discharge the party of the second part from any payment, return, liability
or performance which may have accrued, become due, or arisen hereunder,
prior to or at the date of such revocation or surrender, or from the obligations, admissions and agreements contained in the sections hereof numbered "sixth," "1seventh," "eighth,"" ninth," and "eleventh" hereof,which
are a part of the consideration for the granting of the license herein and
are irrevocable, except by written consent of the party of the first part; and
it is agreed that at the termination of the license herein contained at any
time by expiration, revocation or surrender the party of the second part shall
pay the within-named royalty on all said herein licensed machines or parts of
machines whether wholly finished or not, or purchased or on hand, or ordered
by or for said party of the second part at the date of said termination, and that
the party of the second part will not sell the same except by first paying the
full amount of said royalty and by complying with all the terms and conditions of this'contract; and, further, that if the party of the second part
shall continue after such termination of the license to make, sell or use any
machine or substantial part thereof, containing either of the parts specifically referred to in section "nihith" hereof, or in any invention in any form
set forth and claimed in the letters patent aforesaid, or any of them, the
said party of the first part shall have the right to treat the party of the
second part either as a party to and in breach of this contract or as a, mere
infringer, and the said party of the second part consents that in such case,
upon any suit brought by the aid party of the first part against the said
party of the second part in any court, either upon this contract or for an
infringement of the said letters patent, or any of them, an injunction may
issue without notice to the said party of the second part restraining him
from making,' selling or using the said part or devices or the invention or
inventions in said letters patent, or any of them set forth.
Witness our hands and seals the day and the year first above written.

TH POPE MANUFACTURING COiPANY.
R. FPmwp GoPmuLLY.

THE POPE DMFG. Co.,

by CHARLES E.PRATT, Atty.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

embodying the inventions set forth in certain patents named;
and that he should not manufacture bicycles embodying the
features of certain other patents specified in the agreement.
That said defendant expressly agreed that he would not manufacture or sell, directly or indirectly, bicycles, etc., containing
any of the inventions or claims in either of said letters patent,
nor make, use or sell, directly or indirectly, certain parts of
bicycles specified in the contract, other than according to the
conditions and terms in said license.
That it was provided by the eleventh clause of said contract that the defendant might surrender the license at any
time by written notice, but it was provided in the same clause
that no revocation, surrender or termination of said license, or
any part of it, should release or discharge said Gormully from
any liability which might have accrued, become due or arisen
prior to, or at the date of, said surrender, or from the obligations, admissions and agreements contained in sections 6, 7, 8,
9 and 11 ; that such admissions and agreements were a part of
the consideration for the granting of the license, and were
irrevocable except by the written consent of the licensor; that
it was provided in said clause 11 that if the licensee should
continue, after the termination of said license, to make, sell
or use any of the machines or parts thereof containing either
of the parts referred to in section 9, plaintiff should have the
right to treat the defendant as a party to, and in breach of,
the contract; and that defendant, by said section 9, consented
that if he did make, use or sell any machine containing such
parts, an injunction might issue in favor of the plaintiff
restraining him from so doing.
After setting forth an immaterial modification of such contract subsequently agreed upon, it further averred that the
defendant entered upon the manufacture of bicycles under
said license, made returns thereof, and paid royalties to plaintiff in accordance with the same, and that said license in respect to the clause claimed to have been violated is still in
full force and effect. The bill further charged that since
March 1, 1886, defendant had violated the ninth clause of the
contract in constructing bicycles of a kind prohibited by the

POPE I'F'G COMPANY v. GORMULLY.
Argument for AppeUant.

contract, in violation of the first and ninth clauses of said
contract.
For which reasons, the plaintiff prayed for an account of the
machines made in violation of the agreement, and for an injunction.
The court below found that there was no contest between
the parties as to the execution of the instrument set out in the
bill; that the terms of the contract were such as to prohibit
the defendant from making the high-grade styles and kinds of
bicycles and tricycles complained of; that, if the contract was
valid and in force, it was being violated by the defendant; but
that the contract was not of such a nature as to entitle the
.plaintiff to any relief in a court of equity. 34 Fed. Rep. 877.
From a decree dismissing the bill for the want of equity the
plaintiff appealed to this court.
Xr. I. I. Coburn and .MXr. Edmund Wetmore for appellant.
A court of equity has jurisdiction to enjoin parties from doing things which the defendant agreed for a valuable consideration not to do. Eureka Co. v. Bailey Co., 11 Wall. 488;
Woodworth v. WVeed, 1 Blatchford, 165; Wilson v. Sherman,
1 Blatchford, 536; Me.Kay, Trustee v. Smith, 29 Fed. Rep.
295; Pope .Mf'g Co. v. Owsley, 27 Fed. Rep. 100.
When the defendant took a license and manufactured under
said license, and the complainant owned a large number of
patents, and in consideration of obtaining a limited and conditional license agreed that the other patents under which the
complainant is manufacturing are valid, and that he would not
embody in his machines the devices covered by those patents,
the defendant is estopped from afterwards denying the validity
of those patents, and a court of equity will enjoin him from
making machines containing the devices covered by those patents. ifagi Ruffle Co. v. Elm City Co., 13 Blatcbford, 151;
Eul'eka Co. v. Bailey Co., 11 Wall. 488; Lockwood v. Hooper,
25 Fed. Rep. 910; Evory v. Candee, 17 Blatchford, 200; Burr
v. Kimbar, 28 Fed. Rep. 574; _Kinsman v. Parkhurst, 18
How. 289.

OCTOBER TERMf, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

.Xr. Charles -. OKffield and 3fr. W. C. Goudy for appellee.
Mr. JusTic

Bnoww delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the question whether a court of equity
can be called upon to decree the specific performance of a con,tract, wherein the defendant, in consideration of receiving a
license to use certain patents belonging to the plaintiff during
the life of such patents, agrees never to import,,manufacture
or sell any machines or devices covered by certain other patents, unless permitted in writing so to do, nor to dispute or
contest the validity of such patents or plaintiff's title thereto,
and further to aid and morally assist the plaintiff in maintaining public respect for and preventing infringements upon the
same; and further agrees that if, after the termination of his
license, he shall continue to make; sell or use any machine or
part thereof containing such patented inventions the plaintiff shall have the right to treat him as an infringer, and to
sue out an injunction against him without notice.
There are other co~enants in this contract which show that
the plaintiff'-intended t6 reserve to itself a large supervision
and control of the defendant's business; for example, in the
second clause, wherein the defendant agrees to nmintain a
place of business in Chicago, keep on hand a stock of bicycles,

and advertise his business by occupying and paying for one
page space continuously, during the term- of his license, in a
certain periodical published in Boston, and in other publications of general circulation; and to advertise that it is licensed
by the plaintiff. By the sixth clause he agrees to sell bicycles
at retail, and not to sell to any person except upon terms and
prices satisfactory to the plaintiff, and as shall first be submitted to and approved Jy it; and shall not have or sell to
any agent in any other place than Chicago, nor pay nor allow
-freight beyond Chicago, nor any bonus, rebate, allowance- or
commission on sales. By the seventh clause he agrees to
stamp the word "patented" on each machine, together with
the dates of the patents under which each of the machines is
made or sold, according to a list furnished by the plaintiff.

POPE M'F'G COITA-NY v. GORMULLY.
Opinion of te

Court.

It is rarely that this court is called upon to consider so unique
a contract, and we have'found some difficulty in assigning to
it its proper place among legal obligations. Its requirement is
not merely that the licensee shall refrain during the term of
his license from infringing other patents than those which he
is expressly authorized to use, but shall forever afterwards, at
least during the life of such patents, refrain from importing,
making or selling articles covered by them, and from disput*ing the validity thereof or plaintiff's title thereto, and shall
afford his moral aid and assistance in securing proper aid and
.respect for such patents. The exact nature and amount of
moral suasion the licensee is bound to exert in behalf of the
plaintiff is -not specified, but is apparently left to be determined
by the circumstances of the case.
(1) Ordinarily the law leaves to parties the right to make
such contracts as they please, demanding, however, that they
shall not require either party to do an illegal thing, and that
they shall not be against public policy or in restraint of trade.
It is argued with much earnestness here that this contract is
open to the last objection, as an attempt to fetter the defendant from importing or making bicycles, in ' which he might
otherwise have a perfect right to deal, and thus foreclose himself from the ability to earn an honest living in his 'chosen
calling. It is scarcely necessary to say that, without this contract, the defendant would have no right to manufacture or
sell bicycles covered by valid patents of the plaintiff, so that
the contract is not needed for the protection of the plaintiff to
this extent. The real question is whether the defendant can
estop himself from disputing patents which may be wholly void,
or to which the plaintiff may have no shadow of title. It is
impossible to define with accuracy what is meant by that public policy for an interference and viol- tion of which a contract
may be declared invalid. It may be understood in general
that contracts which are detriniental to the interests of the
public' as understood at the time fall within the ban. The
standard of such policy is notV absolutely invariable or fixed,
since contracts which at one stage of our civilization may seem
to conflict with public interests, at a miore advanced stage are

OCTOBER TER-,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

treated as legal and binding. In certain cases a man may
doubtless agree that he will interpose no defence to a specified
claim, and that another may take judgment against him without notice. This is a matter of every-day occurrence in connection with what are termed judgment notes. But if one
should agree for a valuable consideration that he would set up
no defence to any action which another might bring against
him and such other person might enter up judgment against
him in any such action without notice, we think that no court
would hesitate to pronounce such an agreement invalid.
There are certain fundamental rights which no man can barter
away, such, for instance, as his right to life and personal freedom, and, in criminal cases, the right to be tried by a jury of
his peers. Courts have even gone so far as to say that a man
cannot consent to be tried by a jury of less than twelve men,
whatever may be the circumstances under which the twelfth
man is taken from the panel. Cooley's :Cons. Lims. 319. We
are reluctant to say that a right to defend a whole class of
unjust claims may not be one of these. It is as important to the
public that competition should not be repressed by worthless
patents, as that the patentee of a really valuable invention
should be protected in his monopoly ; and it is a serious question whether public p-olicy permits a man to barter away
beforehand his right to defend unjust actions or classes of
actions, though, in an individual case, he may doubtless assent
that a judgment be rendered against him, even without
notice.
The reports, are not entirely barren of authority upon this
subject. Thus in Crane v. French, 38 Mississippi, 503, 530, 532,
it was held that though a party may omit to take advantage
of a right, such as the right to plead the statute of limitations,
secured to him by law, b. could not bind himself by contract
not to avail himself of such right if it be secured to him on
grounds of public policy. "But there appears to be," says
the court, "a clear distinction between declining to take advantage of a privilege which the law allows to a party, and
binding himself by contract-that he Will not avail himself of a
right which the law has allowed to him on grounds of public

POPE MI'F'G COMPANY v. GOIRMULLY.

235

Opinion of the Court.

policy. A man may decline to set up the defence of usury, or
the statute of limitations, or failure of consideration, to an
action on a promissory note. But it would scarcely be contended that a stipulation inserted in such a note, that he
would never set .up such a defence, would debar him of the
defence if he thought fit to make it.
.
Suppose, then,
an agreement made by the maker of a note that he would not
set up the defence of usury. Would an action lie for a breach
of that agreement, in case the party should make the defence
in disregard of it? It appears not, and the reason is, that the
right tq make the defence is not only a private right to the
individual, but it is founded on public policy which is promoted by his making the defence, and contravened by his
refusal to make it. . . . With regard to all such, matters
of public policy, it would seem that no man can bind himself
by estoppeZ not to assert a right whith the law gives him on
reasons of public policy." There are cases wherein it is held
that a promise not to plead the statute of limitations is a good
bar, but they are those wherein the promise was made after
the cause of action had accrued, and where it was considered
by the court as a new promise. There are a few cases, however, which hold that an agreement not to plead the statute,
made upon the instrument, or at the time of its execution,
may be pleaded as an estoppel.. So in: Stoutenburgv. Lyluand,
13 Ohio St. 228, it was held that 'acontract -which provides
that a defendant in a proceeding for divorce shall make no
defence thereto, is against public policy, And therefore void.
"The tendency of such agreements," said the_ court "i s' to
mislead the court in the administration of justice, and injuriously affect public, interests."
A like ruling was niade in
S.ayles v. Sayes, 1 Foster (21 N. 'H.)312; and in Yiser v. Bertrart2 14 Arkansas, 267. So in BeIZ v. -Leggett, 3 Selden (7
N. Y.) 176, 179, it was said that "all contracts or agreements
which have for the object anything which is repugnant to justice, or against the general pblicy of the common law, or contrary to the provisions of any statute, are. void;" and that
this principle has often been applied by our courts to contracts
which had for their objects the perversions of the ordinary

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

operations of the government. In that case a note given by a
third person to a creditor in consideration of his withdrawing
opposition to the discharge of a bankrupt'debtor, was held to
be void as against the policy of the law. In most of the States
wherein the question has arisen it has been held that a debtor
is not bound by his waiver of his homestead or other exemptions upon execution. Zneettle v. Neweomb, 22 N. Y. 249,
251. "In these cases," said the court, "the law seeks to mitigate the consequences of man's thoughtlessness and improvidence, and it does not, I think, allow its policy to be invaded
by any language which may be inserted in the contract." The
exigencies of this case do not require us to decide the question
whether a man may or may, not contract beforehand not to
set up a certain defence to a particular action; but we are of
the opinion that a contract not to set up any defence whatever to any suit that may be begun upon fifty different causes
of action is in violation of public policy. See, as pertinent to
this question, inurance Co. v. .forse, 20 Wall. 445; Doyle v.
Continental Ans. Co., 94 U. S. 535: Barron v. Burnside, 121
U. S.186.
(2) But whether this contract be absolutely void as contravening public policy or not, we are clearly of the opinion that
it does not belong to that class of contracts, the specific performance of which a court of equity can be called upon to
enforce. To stay the arm of a court of equity from enforcing
a contract it is by no means necessary to prove that it is invalid; from time to time immemorial it has been the recognized duty of such courts to exercise a discretion; to refuse
their aid in the enforcement of unconscionable, oppressive or
iniquitous ,contracts; and to turn the party claiming the
benefit of such contract over to a court of law. This distinction was recognized by this court in Cathcart v. lobinson, 5
Pet. 264, 276, wherein Chief Justice Marshall says: "The difference between that degree of unfairness which will induce a
court of equity to interfere actively by setting aside a contract,
and that which will induce a court to withhold its aid, is well
settled. 10 Ves. 292; 2 Coxe's Cases in Chancery, 77. It is
said that the plaintiff must come into court with clean hands,

POPE MI'F'G COMPANY v.

O4ORMULLY.

27

Opinion of the Court.

and that a defendant may resist a bill for specific performance,
by showing that under the circumstances the plaintiff is not
entitled to the relief he asks. Omission or mistake in'-the
agreement, or that it is unconscientious or unreasonable, or
that there has been concealment, misrepresentation or any
unfairness, are enumerated among the causes which will induce
the court to refuse its aid." This principle is reasserted in
Hennessy v. IWoolworth, 128 U. S. 438, 442, in which it was
said that specific performance is not of absolute right, but one
which rests entirely in judicial discretion, exercised, it is true,
according to the settled principles of equity, and not arbitrarily or capriciously, and always with reference to the facts of
the particular case. Witlard v. Tayloe, 8 Wall. 557, 567; -Marble Co. v. _Ripley, 10 Wall. 339, 357; 1 Story's Eq. Jur. sec.
742; Seymour v. JDelancey, 6 Johns. Ch. 222, 224; White N%
Damon, 7 Ves. 30, 35; Radcliffe v. Warrington, 12.Ves. 326,
331.
These principles apply with great force to the contract
under consideration in this case. Not only are the stipulations in paragraphs 9 and 11 unusual and oppressive, but there
is much reason for saying that they were not" understood by
the defendant as importing any obligation on his part beyond
the termination of his license. Indeed, the operation of these
covenants upon his legitimate business "Was such that it is
hardly possible he could have understood their legal purport.
The testimony upon this point was fully reviewed by the court
below in its opinion, and the conclusion reached that the contract "was an artfully contrived snare to bind the defendant
in a manner which he did not comprehend at the. time he became a party to it." We have not found it necessary to go
into the details of this testimony. While we are not satisfied
that his assent to this contract was obtained by. any fraud or
misrepresentation, or that the defendant should not be bound
by it to the extent to which it is valid at law, we, are clearly
of the opinion that it is of such a character that the plaintiff
has no right to call upon a court of equity to give it the reliefit has sought to obtain in this suit. We express no opinion
upon the question whether an action at law will lie upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

covenants of the ninth clause of the contract not to manufacture or sell the devices. therein specified.
The decree of the court below dismissing the bill is, therefore,

Affirmed.
POPE MANUFACTURING

COMPANY

V. GORMULLY

&

JEFFERY

MANUFACTURING COMPANY. (No. 1.) Appeal from the Circuit Court

of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois. No. 205.
Argued March 9, 10, 1892. Decided April 4, 1892. MR. JUSTICE
BROWN delivered the opinion of the court.
The bil!'in this case appears to be brought against the defendants as successors of Gormully under the contract of December 1,
1884, which was also made the basis of the suit No. 204, just decided. As it. is admitted in the brief that if the court refused
relief against Mr. Gormully for want of equity in the prior suit,
there is no reason why it should. not refuse it in this case, it is
unnecessary to go into its details.
The decree of the court below dismissing the bill is, therefore,
Affirmed.
Mr. Lewis L. Coburn and Mr. Edmund Wetmore for appellant.
Mr. Charles K. Offield and Mr. W. C. Goudy for appellees.

POPE MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. GORMULLY
& JEFFERY MANUFACTURING COMPANY. (No. 2.)
-APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 206.

Argued March 10, 11, 1892.-Decided April 4,1892.

Pope Manufacturing Co. v. Gormully, ante, 224. applied to this case so far as
the plaintiff claims to recover for a violation of a contract.
Letters patent No. 252,280, Claims 1 and 2, issued January 10, 1682, to Curtis

