NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. AMATO.

465

Syllabus.

man v. FoTt Scott, 141 U. S. 415. Under these circumstances
the judgment of the Supreme Couit is not subject to review
here.
The suit in the state court involving certain lots was commenced before the institution of the action in respect to other
real estate in the Circuit Court of the. United States, and the
judgment of the Supreme Court of the State had become res
adjudicatabetween the parties, before the decree was entered
by the Circuit Court. The judgment before us was rendered
in accordance with well-settled principles of general law, not
involving any Federal question, and did not deny to the decree
of the Circuit Court the effect which would be accorded under
similar circumstances to the judgments and decrees of the
state court.
The writ of error is
Dismissed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
AMATO.
ERROR TO THE

UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF AAPPEA.LS FOR

THI
No. 1508.

Submitted

SECOND CIRCUIT.
February 29, 1892.-Decided April 11, 1892.

A suit was brought in the Supreme Court of New York against a railroad
corporation created by an act of Congress, to recover damages for personal injuries sustained by the plaintiff, who was a laborer on the road,
from the negligence of the defendant. The suit was removed by the
defendant into a Circuit Court of the United States, on the ground that
it arose under the act of Congress. It was tried before a jury, and resulted in a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff for $4000. The defendant took a writ of error froin the Circuit Court of Appeals, which
affirmed the judgment. On a writ of error taken by the defendant from
this court to the Circuit Court of Appeals, a motion was made, by the
plaintiff, to dismiss or affirm: Held,
(1) Under § 6 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, the
writ would lie, because the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was
not dependent entirely on the fact that the opposite parties to- the
suit were one of them an alien and the other a citizen of the
United States, or one of them a citizen of one State and-the other
VOL. cxLrv-30

OCTOBER TERM, 189L
Statement of the Case.
a citizen of a different State, but was dependent on the fact that,
the corporation being created by an act of Congress, the suit
arose under a law of the United States, without reference to the
citizenship of the plaintiff;
(2) The decision of the Circuit Court of -Appeals was not final, nor in
effect made final by the act of 1891, as in Lau Ow Bew v. United
States, 144 U. S. 47;
(3) As it did not appear by the record, that, on the trial in the Circuit
Court, the defendant made any objection to the jurisdiction of
that court, and the petition for removal recognized the jurisdiction, it could not be said, as a ground for the motion to dismiss,
that the defendant might have taken a writ of error from this
court to the Circuit Court, under § 5 of the said act of 1891, and
had, by failing to do so, waived its right to a review by this
court;
(4) There was color for the motion to dismiss, and the judgment must
be affirmed on the ground that the writ was taken for delay only;
(5) The main defence was contributory' negligence on the part of the
plaintiff, and the court charged the jury that they had the right to
take into consideration the fact that the foreman of the defendant
told the plaintiff it was" safe for him to cross, at the time, the
bridge where the accident took place, through the plaintiff's being
struck by a locomotive engine while he was crossing the bridge
on foot. The question was fairly put to the jury, as to the alleged
contributory negligence. The case was one for the jury.

ON February 11, 1890, Dominick Amato brought an action
in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, in the county
of New York, against the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, a corporation created by an act of Congress, approved
The summons in the
March 2, 1864, "c. 217, 13 Stat. 365.
action was duly served on the defendant, and it appeared by
attorney.
The complaint stated that the plaintiff was a resident of the
city and county and State of New York; that on or about
November 6, 1888, in or near the county of Burleigh, in the
then Territory of Dakota, now State of North Dakota, through
the negligence of the defendant and -withoutnegligence on his
part, he was run over by an engine owned and operated by
the defendanty from which he sustained injuries which caused
him the loss of his leg; that on account of said injuries he.
was confined in a hospital for 7J months, and had sustained
permanent injuries which made him unable to work, and had

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. AMATO.

467

Statement of the Case.

been damaged thereby in the sum of $25,000; and that he
demanded judgment against the defendant.for that sum.
On the 13th of March, 1890, the defendant filed, in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, a petition in due
form; setting forth that the action was a suit of a civil nature,
arising under said act of Congress, accompanied 'this with a
proper bond, and prayed that the suit be removed into' the
Circuit Court of the -United States for the Southern District
of New York. The Supreme Court of the State made an
order, on the 21st of March, 1890, approving the bond and
removing the cause into the said Circuit Court, and staying all
further proceedings therein in the state court.
A certified copy of the record being 'filed in the Circuit
Court, the defendant put in its answer in that court, setting
forth, that on or about November 5, 1888, at or near the east
end of its bridge which extends across the Missouri River,
from Burleigh County to Morton County, in North Dakota,
the plaintiff, who at the time was a laborer on its road, attempted, without any right or authority to do so, to get or
jump upon the footboard at the front end of a locomotive
engine, the property of the defendant, while the same was in
motion; that he slipped and fell, and one of his legs was run
over by one of the wheels of the engine; that the defendant,
its agents and servants, were using due care and diligence in
running said locomotive at the time of the accident, which
was not due to any negligence on the part of the defendant,
its agents or servants, but was owing to the negligence and
fault of the plaintiff himself; and that that was the mattei
referred to in the complaint; and the answer denies each and
every allegation in the complaint contained, not thereinbefore
specifically admitted.
The case was tried by a jury, in April, 1891, before Judge
Coxe, and resulted in a verdict for the plaintiff, for $4000.
On May 28, 1891, a judgment was entered for the plaintiff
for the $4000, with $26.66 interest and $33.10 costs, amounting in all to $4059.76. A motion was afterwards made before
Judge Coxe to set aside the verdict as contrary-to law and
against the weight of evidence, and because the damages were

OCTOBER TERME, 1891.
Motion to Dismiss.

excessive. On the 24th of June, 1891, Judge Coxe filed an
opinion, (46 Fed., iRep. 561,) denying the motion. A bill of
exceptions was duly made and signed, July 16, 1891, and filed
July 22, 1891.
. A writ of error to review the judgment, returnable August
20, 1891, was duly sued out by the defendant from the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The plaintiff moved
in that court to dismiss the writ of error for want of jurisdiction. On the 25th of January, 1892, an order was entered in
that court denying the motion to dismiss, and affirming the
judgment of the Circuit Court, and ordering that a mandate
issue to the latter court directing it to proceed in accordance
with the decision and order of the Circuit Court -of Appeals.
An opinion, on the affirmance by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
was delivered by Judge Lacombe, and is set forth in the record. 1 IU. S. App. 113.
On the 20th of February, 1892, the defendant sued out a
writ of error from this court, wNyhich was allowed by an Associate Justice of this court, to review the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, and the transcript of the record has
been duly filed in this court. The plaintiff now moves to dismiss the writ of error and to affirm the judgment.
-Mr. Roger Foster in support of the motion to dismiss.
I. The court will not construe the act creating Courts of
Appeals literally and technically, but will give it a broad and
liberal interpretation, consistent with its object, the relief of
the Supreme Court, ut res magi8 valeat 9uampereat.
Taken literally, section 5, which gives jurisdiction to the
Supreme Court, amongst other cases, to "any case in which
the jurisdiction of the court is in issue," and section 6, which
gives the Circuit Courts of Appeals jurisdiction only in "cases
other than those provided for by the preceding section of this
act unless otherwise provided by law," would have excluded
from the Circuit Courts of Appeals all cases in which the jurisdiction was put in issue by a denial of a difference of citizenship in the pleadings or otherwise. This court however, gave

NORTHERI

PACIFIC RAILROAD v. AMATO.

469

Argument against the Mo ion.

the act a construction, founded upon its intent ratlier than
upon its literal language, in McLish v. Ro, 141 U. S. 661, 668.
II. This case is one in which the decision. of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is final. Section 6 decides that its jurisdiction "shall be final in all cases'in which the jurisdiction is
dependent entirely ipon the opposite parties to the controversy." Here the jurisdiction depends upon the fact that the
plaintiff is qn alien and the defendimt acorporation chartered
by Congress, a citizen of the United States.
III. The final paragraph of section 6 of the act does not
authorize a review by the -Supreme Court of an order of a
Circuit Court of Appeals.
.The intention of-that paragraph was to afford an omnium
gathemn for any cases. which had not been, pteviously mentioned in section 5 or section 6, and to provide that in such
cases, if any there were, there should be a review of the judgments or decrees of the District or Circuit Courts, not of the
Circuit Courts of Appeals, by the Supreme Court, where the
matter in controversy exceeded one thousand dollars.
IV. The plaintiff in error has lost its right to a review of
this judgment by the Supreme*Court.
It appears by his fifth assignment of error in the Circuit
Court of Appeals that "a question of jurisdiction is in.issue."
By failing to take a writ of error to the judgment of the
Circuit Court from the Supreme Court immediately upon tl~e
entry of such judgment, and by electing to have a review of
the whole case by the Circuit Court of Appeals, which has
failed to certify any, question to this court, the plaintiff in
error has waived his right to a review here. ffo-Lish v. Rof,
Sc
a
d
nw
fira.
V. If thissi
tion of any writ of error in this
case, the writ must run to the judgment of affirmance entered
by the Circuit Court upon the mandate of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, not to the-order of the Circuit Court of Appeals
that a mandate issue, after the mandate has issued and is filed
in.the Circuit Court.

Xr. A. H. Garlandand Mr. HZTJ .May opposing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument against the Motion.

The motion 'to affirm should be denied, because the writ of
error was not taken for delay, and the question upon which
the jurisdiction depends is not frivolous.
The statement of the boss to Amato that no train would
come over the bridge until a certain hour did not warrant
Amato in walking over the bridge in the manner he did.
Under all the circumstances that statement was more of a
warning than an assurance of safety. He said no train would
come over until about 7 or 7.30 P.m. That was a notice that
a train would come over about that time. The statement
was that a tiain would come over about 7 or 7.30 ; that was a,
notice to Amato to be on the lookout before 7 P.m. Amato
says he started to walk over the bridge at about 5.30 or 6 P.m.;
he probably put it quite as early as it was. Suppose he
started at 6 P.m. He was lame and had to walk very slowly.
The bridge measurements on the photograph show the bridge
to be nearly half a mile long. Thus a man, who, in consequence of lameness, walks very slowly, is about to start at
6 P.m. to walk over a railroad bridge about half a mile long.
He is told that a train will come over about '7 P.m. That statement was a warning to be on his guard, and not an assurance
of safety excusing him from the obligation to watch and listen
and warranting him in walking at his ease without thinking
of anything.
Under the circumstances it was Amato'%duty to listen and
to look, and not to walk carelessly into danger. Having
omitted to use his senses and having walked thoughtlessly
upon the track he was guilty of culpable negligence, that so
far contributed to his injuries as to deprive him of any right
to complain of the railroad company. Railroad Company v.
Houston, 95 U. S. 697; Schofteld v. Chicago, .Afilwxaukee &c.
Railway, 114 U. S. 615; Finlayson v. Chicago, Burlington
&c. Railway, 1 Dillon, 5'79-584.
It having been shown by undisputed testimony that Amato's
culpable negligence brought about the accident, and it not
having been shown that the railro d company was guilty of
any negligence, or failed to exercise such reasonable care
and prudence as would, if exercised, have avoided the conse-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. AMATO.

471

Opinion of the Court.

quences of Amato's negligence, Aimato was hot entitled to
recover, and the question was one of law to be decided by
the court, and not of fact to be submitted to the jury. Railroad Compc ny v. Bouston, 95 U. S. 697; Schoftld v. Chicago
&c. Railway, 114IU. S. 615; Inland &c. Coasting Co. v. Toson, 139 U. S. 551, 557.
IR. JusTic. BLAToeHFORD, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The first ground urged for the motion to dismiss is that,
ander the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, (26 Stat. 826,) the
writ of error will not lie. That act provides, in § 6, that the
Circuit Courts of Appeals established by it shall exercise appellate jurisdiction to review, by appeal or by -writ of error,
"final decision" in the existing Circuit Courts in all oases
other than those provided for in § 5 of the act, unless othervise provided by law, and that "the judgments or decrees of
the Circuit Courts of Appeals shall be final in all cases in
which the jurisdiction is dependent entirely upon -the opposite
parties to the suit or controversy, being aliens and .citizens of
the United States, or citizens of different States."
The present case is not one provided for in § 5 of the act,
and the judgment of the Circuit Court was not directly reviewable by this court under § 5; nor was the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals final in this case, because the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was not dependent entirely
upon thq fact that the opposite par ies to the suit were one of
them an alien and the other a citizen of the United States, or
one of them a citizen of one State and the other a citizen of a
different State. The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in this
case depended upon the fact that, the defendant being a corporation created by an act of Congress, the suit arose under a
law of the United States, without reference to the citizenship
of the plaintiff. His citizenship is not mentioned in the complaint, or in the petition for removal; and that petition states
that the action arises under the act of CongTess. Nor was
the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in effect made
final, as in lau Ow Bew v. United States, 143 U. S. 47.

.OCTOBER TEIRMV

1891.

Opinion of the Courv.

Section 6 of the act of 1891 provides that 'in all cases not
thereinbefore, in that section, made final, "there shall be of
right an appeal, or writ of error, or review of the case by the
Supreme Court of the United States, where the matter in controversy shall exceed one thousand dollars besides costs."
Under that provision, as the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals in the present case was not made final by § 6, and as
the matter in controversy exceeds $1000 besides costs, the
defendant had a right to a writ of error from this court.
We do not think there is anything inconsistent with this
view in what was said by this court in M.eoish v. Rof,141
U. S.661, or in Oldca.qo, St. Paul & Omaha Railway v. Roberts, 141 U. S.690.
In the Circuit Court of Appeals, the defendant, by its fifth
assignment of error, took the point that the Circuit Court had
no jurisdiction of its person or of the subject matter of the
action; and on the present writ of error from this court, the
first assignment of error, filed in the Circuit Court of Appeals
and sent up as part of the record, assigns as error the several
errors set out in the assignment of errors before the Circuit
Court of Appeals. The plaintiff, therefore, contends on this
motion, that as, under § 5 of the act of 1891, the\ jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court was in issue, the case might have been
brought by a writ of error directly from the Circuit Court to
this court. But it does not appear by the record that bn the
trial, the defendant made any objection to the jurisdictio: of
the Circuit Court. On the contrary, its petition for removal
states that, the action had been brought against it, and that
the complaint had been duly served on it, and that the defendant had duly appeared. And, even if a writ of error from
this court to the Circuit Court could have been taken, yet, as
the defendant did not take such a writ of error, but took one
from the Circuit Court of Appeals to the Circuit Court, the
plaintiff cannot be heard to assert, as the ground of this motion, the fact that the defendant might have taken a writ
of error from this court to the Circuit Court. Equally it
cannot be said, as a ground ior this motion, that the
case is one which involved in the Circuit Court tue con-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. AMATO.

473

Opinion of the Court.

struction or application of the Constitution of the United
States, on the ground that the question arose whether the act
of C6ngress incorporating the defendant was constitutional.
Nor can it be objected, as a ground for this motion, that the
defendant has waived its right to a review by this court,
because it failed to take a writ of error from this court to the
Circuit Court, to review the judgment of the latter court.
But, although this court has jurisdiction of this writ of
error, we are of opinion that, under clause '5 of Rule 6 of
this court, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
must be affirmed, on the ground that there was color for the
motion to dismiss, and that the writ was taken for delay only.
The bill of exceptions in the Circuit Court shows that the
plaintiff was sworn as a witness, and that, after he had given
his testimony, he rested, and then the defendant's counsel
moved to dismiss the complaint on the ground that the plaintiff, upon his testimony, was shown to be guilty of contributory
negligence. The motion was denied, and the defendant excepted. The defendant then called several witnesses, who
were in its employ, and who testified that the plaintiff was
injured at a point 110 feet east of the east end of the bridge,
while attempting to jump on the front footboard of a moving
locomotive, and that this occurred on the evening of November 5, 1888. The testimony of all but one of those witn6sses
for the defendant was taken by deposition in Dakota, and,
except that one, they were not cross-examined.
The testimony of the plaintiff was that the accident happened while he was crossing a railroad bridge near Bismarck,
in North Dakota, on November 6, 1888; that he was a laborer
on the'defendant's railroad, and was at work fixing up,tho
track near the west end of the bridge that he lived near the
east end of the bridge; that the custom of the company was
to take the men home from their work on a car drawn by a
locomotive over the bridge from the west to the east end, at
about halfpast 5 o'clock in the afternoon; that he had never
crossed the brHdge before; that on the afternoon of the 6th of
November, "the English boss" told the laborers, about 56 in
number, of whom the ppintiff was one, that there would be

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

no train to take them across the bridge that night, and that
they would have to walk across; that the boss said that no
train or engne would come over the bridge until about 7 or
half-past 7; that the plaintiff started to walk across the bridge
with the other laborers at about half-past 5 or 6 o'clock P.m.,
but in consequence of a pain in his side, the result of a fall a
week previous, he was not able to keep up with the others,
and fell behind and walked over the bridge by himself; that
there was but one track on the bridge, and he was walking on
that track; that he could not walk at the side of the track
without crawling from one trestle to another; that the engine
came on the bridge from the east, meeting him about its
middle; that there was room on the bridge to allow him to
step aside and let the engine pass, if he had seen it coming;
that it was coming in front of him, right around the turn, but
he could not see it; that he did not see it until it was on top
of him; that he then tried to get out of the way, but slipped
on the track, which was slightly frozen, and" fell and caught
his leg under the wheel, and the engine passed over it and his
leg was cut off; that he remained in the hospital 7j months,
and had not been able to work since; and that before the
accident he earned $1.50 a day.
On cross-examination, he testified that if he had seen the
locomotive coming he would have stepped to one side, out of
the way, but he did not see it because it was coming around
the curve; and that he never thought of the locomotive,
because the boss told him there was nothing to come across,
and he was walking at his ease, without thinking of anything.
He further testified that he did not attempt to jump on a
moving locomotive at the east end of the bridge.
At the close of the testimony on both sides, the defendant
moved that the court direct a verdict for it, on the ground
that the plaintiff had been guilty of contributory negligence in
walking across the bridge in the manner he did, and also upon
the ground that he was a trespasser on the bridge, and it was
necessary for him to prove gross negligence on the part of the
defendant. The motion was denied, and the defendant excepted.
The court, in its charge, put the question fairly before the

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. AIfATO.

475

Dissent of Brewer and Brown, JJ.

jury, and among other things told them that on the question
whether it was a prudent thing for the plaintiff to walk across
the bridge in the manner he did, and not see the engine
approaching until it was directly upon him, they had the
right to take into 6onsideration the statement which he said
was made to him by the boss, that it was safe for him to cross
at that time, and that no engine would cross the bridge until
about half-past 7 o'clock. To that portion of the charge the
defendant excepted, but not to any other.portion.
We concur with the view of Judge Coxe, in his opinion on
the motion to set aside the verdict, that the question of the
plaintiff's negligence was one of fact, and was submitted to
the jury under instructions as favorable to the defendant as it
could expect; and that the testimony of the plaintiff that the
boss or foreman of the defendant had told him that no train
or engine would come over the bridge until about 7 or halfpast *7o'clock, was properly to be taken into consideration by
the jury in determining the question whether the plaintiff was
negligent in not seeing the engine.
We concur also with the view of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, in the opinion oi that court, given by Judge Lacombe,
that it was fairly a question for the jury to determine,
whether or not it was*negligence on the part of the plaintiff
not to keep a 'lookout for a coming engine, in 'iew of the
assurance of the boss that there was none to come; and that
the case is quite within the decisions in Bradley v. .New York
Central Railroad,62 N. Y. 99, and Oldenburg v. -New York
Central Railroad,124 N. Y. 414.
The judgment is affirmed, and the cause remwnded to the
Circuit Court of the United States.for the Southern District of New York, for further _proceedings, as required
by § 10 of the act of Marh 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 8R9.
MR. Jusmcn BRE wER and MR. JuSTicE BRowx dissented on

the ground that the Circuit Court should have directed a verdict for the defendant because the plaintiff had been guilty of
contributory negligence.

