UNITED STATES v. MERRIAM.

179

Argument for the United States.

UNITED STATES v. MERRIAM.
UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 67 and 68.

Argued October 11, 12, 1923.-Decided November
12, 1923.

1. A bequest made to an executor, to be in lieu of all compensation
or commissions to which he would otherwise be entitled as such,
is upon an implied condition that he clothe himself in good faith
with the character of executor, but its payment is not conditioned
upon actual service in that capacity. P. 184.
2. Bequests of that kind were exempted from tax under the Income
Tax Act of October 3, 1913, which taxes "the income from but not
the value of property acquired by gift, bequest, devise or descent."

Id.
3. Taxing statutes are not to be extended by implication beyond
the clear inlort of the language used; and doubt as to, the meaning of their words must be resolved against the Government and
in favor of the taxpayer. P. 187.'
282 Fed. 851, affirmed.

CERTIORmI to judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed judgments recovered by the United
States in the District Court in actions for additional
income taxes.

Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Preston C.
Alexander and Mr. Charles T. Hendler were on the brief,
for the United States.
"Bequest" as well in the terminology of the law as in
its general acceptation implies a bounty or gratuity and
not a payment; the term is donative and not compensative in its signification. Citing, general and legal lexicographers; Black. Com., (Chase's ed.) p. 609; Schouler on
Wills, 5th ed., vol. 1, p. 3; Heaton, Surrogates' Courts,
3d ed., vol. 2, p. 1283; 40 Cyc. 994; In re Hoover's Estate,

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for the United States.

263 U S.

7 N. Y. S. 283; In re Daly's Estate, 89 N. Y. S. 538;
Disston v. McClain, 147 Fed. 114; Reynolds v. Robinson,
82 N. Y. 103. Ortonv. Orton,3 Keyes, 486, distinguished.
It is in such sense that "beqlest" is used in the Act of
1913. It appears in the act immediately after the word
"gift" and before the word "descent ", and so, by the
rule of noscitur a sociis, is to be defined as a gift-by will,
quite apart from the fact that such is its ordinary meaning. Congress manifestly used the words "bequest, devisq, or descent" to mean property given by will or
descending by statutes of distribution or descent,. as distinguished from property passing for a consideration.
The same subparagraph of the act provides that "com-,
pensation for personal services in whatever form paid"
is taxable income within the act. Contrasting. the word
"bequest" with these words, should resolve the doubt if
any exists. If what is received is "compensatioh," even
though paid in the form of a bequest by will, it is nevertheless taxable income, a fdrtiori when the testator expressly characterizes the bequest as compensation. If,
however, it is a donative bequest, as distinguished from
",compensation ", it is not taxable income.
The statute manifestlI does not exempt from taxation
income paid in the form of a bequest. The entire net
income of the taxpayer is expressly made taxable under
paragraph A. The words "but not the value of property
received by gift; bequest, devise, or descent" merel point
out what is not income. This legislative definition has
since been confirmed in Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S.
189, and Merchants' Loan & Trust Co. v. Smietanka, 255
U. S. 509. Under the'definition of income given in those
cases a bequest in the nature of a gift is -not income,
whereas compensation for personal services, though in
the form of a bequest, is a gain derived from labor and
hence income and clearly taxable under the act.

UNITED STATES v. MERRIAM.
179

Argument for the United States.

The bequests to the petitioners "in lieu of all compensation and commissions to which they would otherwise
be entitled as executors or trustees" constitute "compensation for personal services" within the meaning of,
and as such are taxable as income under, the Act of 1913.
In New York, at the time of decedent's death, compensation to executors and trustees was provided for by ยง
2753, Code Civ. Proc. In jurisdictions where statutory
compensation is provided for, a testator may fix the compensation of his executor or trustee in an amount equal
to, greater, or less than, that fixed by law. Ireland v.
Corse, 67 N. Y. 343; Secor v. Sentis, 5 Redfield Su-vr. 570;
Connollyt v. Leonard, 114 Me. 29; Lennig's Estate, 53 Pa.
Super. Ct. 596; 24 Corpus Juris, 989.
The respondents did not renounce the so-called bequests within the time limited, and no commissions have
been allowed or paid to them, under ยง 2753, supra. Thus
they have construed the bequests as testamentary compensation for their services as executors and trustees. If
the bequests were not compensation, there would have
been no necessity for the filing of renunciations. In that
event, however, they would have received large sums by
way of statutory commissions, but -concedely no commissions were paid them. The reason, of course, is obvious. They were not entitled to commissions-not because by this direction of the testator they were to receive no compensation (Matter of Vanderbilt, 68 App.
Div. 27), but because the bequests were given to the
executors as compensation, and were so recognized by
them.
Aside from the foregoing considerations, there can be
no question that, under the authorities in this country,
the amounts received by the respondents constitute compensation for the personal services to be rendered by them
in their capacities of executors and trustees. Matter of

.182

OCTOBER TERM,' 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

Tilden, 44Hun, 441, 444; Richardson V. Richardson, 129
N. Y. S. 941; Accounting of Mason, 98 N. Y. 527; O'Donoghue Estate, 115 Misc. (N. Y.) 697; Renshaw v. Williams, 75 Md. 498; Runyon 's Estate, 125 Cal. 195; In re
Hays's Estate, 183 Pa. St. 296; Sweatman's Estate, 223
Pa. St. 552; Connolly v. Leonard, 114 Me. 29; Sinnott v.
Kenaday, 14 App. D. C. 1; Batchelder, Petitioner, 147
Mass. 465;.Fletcher v. Hurd, 14 N. Y. S. 388.
The cases cited in the court below in support of the
contention that the bequests to petitioners were donative
and not compensative,-Morris v. Kent, 2 Edw. Ch. 175;
Scofield v. St. John, 65 How. Pr. 292; Harrison v. Rowley" 4 Ves. Jr. 212; Angermann v. Ford, 29 Beav. 349;
Lewis v. Mathews, L. R. 8 Eq. 277; and Brydges v. Wotten, 1 Ves. and Beam. 134,-are distinguishable.
The cases relied upon by respondents are predicated
upon the English rule that an executor is not legally entitled to'compensation and that any amount given him
by will is necessarily a gratuity. The office of executor in
New York is not a gratuitous one. Code Civ. Proc., ยง
2753. The reason for the rule thus fails and with it the
.rule itself.
Mr. Roy C. Gasser,with whom Mr. William H. Hayes
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR.JusTICE SUTHaERAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These are actions brought by the United States against
the respective defendants, to recover the amount of additional income taxes assessed against them under the
Act of October 3, 1913, c. 16, 38 Stat. 114, 166. The pertinent provisions of the statute are:
"A. Subdivision 1. That there shall be levied, assessed,
collected and paid annually upon the entire net income
arising or'accruing from all sources in the preceding'

UNITED STATES v. MERRIAM.
179

Opinion of the Court.

calendar year to every citizen bf the United States,
whether residing at home or abroad, and to. every person
residing in the United States, though not a citizen therdof,
a tax of one per centum per annum upon such income ...
"B. That, subject only to such exemptions and deductions as are hereinafter allowed, the net income of a
taxable person shall include gains, profits, and income derived from salaries, wages, or compensation for personal
service of whatever kind and in whatever form paid, or
from professions, vocations, businesses, tiade, commerce,
or sales, or dealings in property, whether real or personal,
growing out of the ownership or use of or interest in real
or personal property, also from interest, rent, dividends,
securities, or the transaction of any lawful business carried on for gain or profit, or gains or profits and income
derived from any source whatever, including the income
from but not the value of property acquired by gift,
bequest, devise or descent: . .
The taxes were assessed upon certain legacies bequeathed to the defendants by the will 6f the late Alfred
G. Vanderbilt. The provisions of the will which give
rise to the controversy are as follows:
"Eleventh: I give and bequeath to my brother,
Reginald C. Vanderbilt, Five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000); to my uncle, Frederick W. Vanderbilt, Two
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000); to Frederick M.
Davies, Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000); to
Henry B. Anderson, Two hundred thousand dollars
($200,000); to Frederick L. Merriam, Two hundred and
fifty thousand d'llars ($250,000); to Charles E. Crocker,
Ten thousand dollars ($10,000); and to Howard Lockwood, One thousand dollars ($1,000)."
Sixteenth: I nominate and appoint my brother,
Reginald C. Vanderbilt, my uncle, Frederick W. Vander-

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

bilt, Henry B.9Anderson, Frederick M. Davies, and Frederick L. Merriam executors of this my will and trustees
The
of the several trusts created by this my will ....
bequests herein made to my said executors are in lieu of
all compensation or commissions to which they would
otherwise be entitled as executors or trustees."
The defendants qualified as executors and letters testamentary were duly issued to them prior to the commencement of these actions. The legacies were received by the
respective defendants during the yeaf 1915,-$250,000 by
Merriam and $200,000 by Anderson.
Demurrers to the complaints were overruled by the District Court and judgments rendered against defendants.
Upon writs of error from the Court of Appeals these judgments were reversed. 282 Fed. 851. The Government
contends that these legacies are compensation for personal service within the meaning of paragraph B, quoted
above.
The cases turn upon the meaning of" the phrase which
describes net income as "including the income from but
not the value of property acquired by . . . bequest.
."
The word "bequest" is commonly defined as a
gift of personal property by will; but it is not necessarily
confined to a gratuity. Thus, it was held in Orton v.
Orton, 3 Keyes (N. Y.) 486, that a bequest of personal
property, though made in lieu of dower, was, nevertheless,
a legacy, the court saying: "Every bequest of personal
property is a legacy, including as well those made in lieu
of dower, and in satisfaction of an indebtedness, as those
which are wholly gratuities. The circumstance whether
gratuitous or not, does not enter into consideration in the
And when it is said that a legacy is a
definition. ...
gift of chattels, the word is not limited in its meaning to
a gratuity, but has the more extended sigriation, the
primary one given by Worcester in his dictionary, 'a
thing given, either as a gratuity or as a recompense."

UNITED STATES v. MERRIAM.
179

1185

Opinion of the Court.

Without no* attempting to formulate a precise definition of the meaning of the word as used in this statute,
or deciding whether it includes an amount expressly left
as. compensation for service actually performed, it is
enough for present purposes to say that it does include
the bequest here under consideration since, as we shall
presently show, actual service as a condition of payment
is not required. A bequest to a person as executor is considered as given upon the implied condition that the
person named shall, in good faith, clothe himself with
the character. 2 Williams on Executors (6th Am. ed.)
1391; Morris v. Kent, 2 Edwards Chancery, 175, 179.
And this is so whether given to him simply in this capacity or for care and trouble in executing the office. Idem.
And it is a sufficient performance of the condition if the
executor prove the will or unequivocally manifest an
intention to act. Lewis v. Mathews, L. R. 8 Eq. Cas. 277,
281; Kirkland v. Narramore,105 Mass. 31, 32; Scofield v.
St.-John, 65 How. Pr. (N. Y.) 292, 294-296; Morris v.
Kent, supra; Harrisonv. Rowley, 4 Vesey, 212, 215.
In Morris v. Kent, supra (p. 179) it is said:
"A legacy to an executor even expressed to be for care
and pains, is -not to be regarded in the light of a debt or
as founded in contract, or to be governed by the principles.
applicable to contracts. . . . When a legacy is given
to a-person in the character of executor, so as to attach
this implied condition to"it, the question generally has
been upon the sufficient assumption of the character to
entitle the party to the same. The cases establish the
general rule that it will'be a sufficient performance of
the condition, if the legatee prove the will with a bona
fide intention to act under it or unequivocally manifest
an intention to act in the executorship, as, for instance,
by giv~ing directions about the funeral of the testator, but
is prevented by death from further performig the duties
of his office."

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

Decisions are cited in the Government's brief which,
it is said, establish a contrary rule. These decisions,
however, we are of opinion, are clearly differentiated from
the case under consideration. Some of them are with
reference to testamentary provisions specifically fixing
the amount of compensation for services to be rendered
while others deal with the question whther the executor
is entitled to receive statutory compensation in addition
to the amount named in the will. In Matter of Tilden,
44 Hun, 441, for example, the will directed that: "In
lieu and exclusion of all other commissions and compensation to my executors for performing their duties under
this will .
.
I authorize them to receive from my
estate the following conmissions, namely: " The court,
construing this provision, said: "The provisions in the
will were intended to be as compensation for services rendered, to be in no respect a gift, but an authority to
charge for their services a certain sum."
Again, in Richardson v. Richardson, 129 N. Y. S. 941,
the will was interpreted as directing. the payment 6f compensation. Especial stress was laid upon the fact that
the will did not purport to "give" or "bequeath" to
the executors the amounts fixed, and, adopting the language of the court in the Tilden Case, it was said that
the provisions of the will were intended as an "' authority
to charge for their services a certain sum.' The compensation provided by the will is not a legacy, and does not
abate with the. legacies, but is compensation, carefully
determined by the testator and directed to be paid for
the services to be rendered, and is therefore to be paid
in full."
It is obvious that in this class of cases the right depends
upon the actual performance of the service and the
amount fixed is in no sense a legacy but is purely compensative.
In Renshaw v. TVilliams, 75 Md. 498, the court held
that where a bequest had been made in lieu of commis-

UNITED STATES v. MERRIAM.
179

Opinion of the Court.

sions in a sum larger than the commissions would amount
to, it must be treated as full compensation for the entire
administration of the estate by the same person, though
part of it passed through his hands as administrator
pendente lite and part as executor.
In Connolly v. Leonard, 114 Me. 29, a devise was made
"in lieu of any payment for services as executor or
trustee," with the provision thatit was so to be accepted
and understood. The court held that in view of this
language, the executor was not entitled to commissions in
addition to the property devised.
The foregoing are illustrative of the cases relied upon,
and, apart froni some general language, which we are
unable to accept as applicable to the present case, none
of them, in principle, is in conflict with the conclusion we
have reached. The distinction to be drawn is between
.compensation fixed by will for services to be rendered by
the executor and a legacy to one upon the implied condition that he shall clothe himself with the character of
executor. In the former case he must perform the service to earn the compensation. In the latter case he need
do no more than in good faith comply with the condition
in order to receive the bequest; and in that view the
further provision that the bequest shall be in lieu of commissions is, in effect, nothing more than an expression of
the testator's will that the executor shall not receive
statutory allowances for the services he may render.
The word " bequest" having the judicially settled
meaning which we have stated, we must presume it was
used in that sense by Congress. Kepner v. United States,
195 U. S. 100, 124; The Abbotsford, 98 U. S. 440, 444.
On behalf of the Government it is urged that taxation
is a practical matter and concerns itself with the substance
of the thing upon which the tax is imposed rather than
with legal forms or expressions. But in statutes levying
taxes the literal meaning of the words employed is most

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U. S.

important, for such statutes are not to be extended by implication beyond the clear import of the language used.
If the words are doubtful, the doubt must be resolved
against the Government and in favor of the taxpayer.
Gould v. Gould, 245 U. S. 151, 153. The rule is stated
by Lord Cairns in Partingtonv. Attorney-General, L. R.
4 H. L. 100, 122:
"I am not at all sure that, in a case of this kind-a
fiscal case-form is not amply sufficient; because, as I
understand the principle of all fiscal legislation, it is this:
If the person sought to be taxed comes within the letter
of the law he must be taxed, however great the hardship
may appear to the judicial mind to be. On the other hand,
if the Crown, seeking to recover the tax, cannot bring the
subject within the letter of the law, the subject is free,
however apparently within the spirit of the law the case
might otherwise appear to be. In other words, if there
be admissible in any statute, what is called an equitable
construction, certainly such a construction is not admissible in a taxing statute, where you can simply adhere to
the words of the statute." And see Eidman v. Martinez,
184 U. S. 578, 583.
We are of opinion that these bequests are not taxable
as income under the statute, and the judgment below is
Affirmed.
KLEBE ET AL., COPARTNERS, TRADING AS L.
K1LEBE & COMPANY, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 78.

Argued October 16, 17, 1923.-D)ecided November 12, 123.

1. A contract implied in fact is one inferred from circumstances or
acts of the parties; an express contract speaks for itself and excludes implications. P. 191.
2. Where the Government, relying on a purchase-privilege clause of
a construction contract, appropriated a steam shovel, used in the

