394

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case.

263 U. S.

LEHMANN v. STATE BOARD OF PUBLIC ACCOUNTANCY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.

No. 170. Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted November 26,
1923.-Decided December" 10, 1923.
A state statute authorizing a board to grant certificates of registration to qualified persons iis certified public accountants, and empowering it, upon notice and hearingt to cancel any registration
so granted for unprofessional. conduct of the certificate holder, but
leaving the individual free to practice accountancy without procuring a certificate and after a certificate granted has been, canceled, held, not violative of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment or the provision of the Constitution against
ex post facto laws, in the case of one who, having obtained such a
certificate, sought to enjoin the'board from hearing charges looking
to its revocation, upon the ground that the statute conferred arbitrary power by not defining more specifically the cause for revocation and -that the board had promulgated no definitive rules.

P. 397.
2Q8 Ala. 185, affirmed.

ERROR. to a decree of the Supreme Court of Alabama
affirming a deci'ee which dismissed a bill to enjoin a state
board and its members from hearing charges preferred
against the*plaintiff looking to the revocation of his certificate as a public accountant, And to enjoin the other defendants, who had made the charges, from prosecuting
them. The section of the Alabama statute governing the
proceedings'before the board is set forth below.'
"'That the Alabama State Board of Public Accountancy may revole any certificate issued under this act, or may cancel tlhe registration of any certificate registered under this act, for any unprofessional conduct of the holder of such certificate, or for other sufficient cause, provided that written notice shall -have been mailed to
the holder of such certificate. twenty days before any hearing thereon, stating the cause fol such contemplated action and appointing
a day for a full hearing thereon by said board, and provided further that no certificate issued under this act shall be revoked until
such hearing shall have been heard." Acts 1919, p. 126, ยง 7.

LEHMANN v. BOARD OF ACCOUNTANCY. 395
394

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. James J. Mayfield, for defendants in error, in support of the motion.
Mr. Erle Pettus, for plaintiff in error, in opposition to
the motion.
Mr. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the.
Court.
. By a statute of the State, a board denominated the
Board of Public Accountancy was created. The Board has
authority to examine applicants for certificates or licenses
to practice the business or calling of public accountant
and to issue certificates to those whom the Board deems
qualified.
The Board is given power to cancel the certificate
granted "for any uhprofessional conduct of the'holder of
such certificate, or. for other sufficient cause," upon
written notice of 20 days and a hearing thereon. The
defendants in error, Aldridge, Edson and Rosson, constitute the Board.
Complaint was made against plaintiff in error by the
other defendants in error, who are public accountants, a
day set for hearing and notice thereof given to plaintiff in
error as required by the statute.
He appeared at the time appointed, but subsequently
brought this suit praying that the Board and its members
be enjoined and restrained from hearing the charges preferred against him, or from making or.entering any order
revoking or attempting to revoke the certificate issued to"
him, or from interfering in any way with the practice of
his profession as such certified public accountant. It"
was
also prayed that the other defendants in error be enjoined
'from prosecuting the charges that they had preferred.
A temporary restraining order was issued and an order
to show causewhy it shduld not be made permanent.
The bill was dismissgd on demurrer for want of equity,
and op appeal ^to the Supreme Court the decree was"

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

affirmed. The Chief Justice of the court then granted
this-writ of error.
The ground of it, and the reliance here, is, expressed in
several ways, that the statute of the State is in conflict
with the constitution of the State and also in conflict with
the Constitution of the United States, the latter in that
the statute deprives plaintiff in error of his property without due process .of law, and subjects him to an ex post
facto, law.
The bill is very long. Its important facts are as follows: Plaintiff in error had "by experience and assiduofs
attention to his duties built up a large and lucrative business." Upon the appointment. of the Board he'applied
for, and was issued, a certificate, after standing the tests
and examinations prescribed, and since that time he has
been practicing his profession as a certified public accountant.
The Board has never adopted any code or promulgated
any rules or definition of what is or is not professional conduct, or what is sufficient cause for the revocation of a,
certificate.
He appeared before the Board at the day appointed for
the hearing of the charges against him and was informed by
the :Board that there were no rules in effect to govern or
control the hearing, and evidence would be received with
some liberality.- The hearing was continued until January 26, 1922, and plaintiff in error notified to be back on
that day for the purpose of being tried
It is nowhere averred in the charges against him that
anything that he had done was wrongful or unlawful, the
oidly allegation being that the alleged acts complained of
were surreptitious.
. The acts are en~imerated and it is expressly denied that
he was guilty of anything wrongful, surreptitious or
unlawful.
It is further averred that the Board has prejudged his
acts, and that the determination by the Board as to

LEHMANN v. BOARD OF ACCOUNTANCY. 397
394

Opinion of the Court.

whether his certificate should be revoked rests wholly
within the arbitrary, uncontrolled and unappealable judgment of the Board.
I The unconstitutionality of the act is averred both under
the state and federal constitutions.
The contention that the statute and the powers it confers upon the Board and the manner of their exercise are
in derogation of the constitution of the State is decisively decided against by the opinion of the Supreme
Court of the State and, we may say, that there is persuasion in the reasoning of the court against the contention that the statute is in conflict with the Constitution
of the United States. That is, that the statute is in effect
an ex post facto law or, if enforced against him, will deprive him of his property without due process of law.
The, opinion of the court sustained the Board, its
powers, and the manner of executing them, but refrained
from expressing an opinion of the right or remedy of
plaintiff in error. It said, "It is neither necessary nor
prpper for this court to now decide- what remedy, if any,
would be available to the appellant [plaintiff in error],
if his certificate or license should be improperly or illegally
revoked or canceled." In other words, the court declined
to anticipate the action of the Board; it decided only that
if the State had the power to confer a certificate on the
plaintiff in error through the Board, it had the power,
through the Board, to take it away or to prescribe the
ter's and conditions upon which it might be forfeited.
And the court further said that the appeal was without
equity, since neither the trial court nor it could know in
advance of the hearing that the Board would sustain the
charge.
The reasoning is conclusive. The procurement of a
certificate was deemed of -value by plaintiff in error. It
was the confirmation of his reputation, giving to it the

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

sanction of an official investigation and judgment. He
knew the condition of its issue, knew that the conduct
that secured it 'was a condition of its retention, that for
inconstancy of merit it could be forfeited, and forfeited
if it had been improvidently granted or procured by concealment or deception. And necessarily so, or the certificate would be a means of pretense.
Plaintiff in error puts.some stress upon the absence of
rules by the Board, urging that the statute is in conflict
with the Constitution of the United States because it
purports to authorize the revocation of a certificate "without defining or determining in advance what grounds or
facts or acts shall be sufficient cause for such revocation."
Such absence permits, it is asserted, arbitrary action.
We cannot yield to that assertion or assume that the
Board will be impelled to action by other than a sense
of duty or render judgment except upon convincing evidence introduced in a regular way with opportunity of
rebuttal. We certainly cannot restrain the Board upon
the lpossibility of contrary action. Official bodies would
be of no use as instruments of government if they could
be prevented from action by the supposition of wrongful
action.
This Court and other courts have decided that a license
or certificate may be required of a physician, surgeon,
dentist, lawyer or school teacher. Douglas v. Noble, 261
U. S.165, has pertinent comment upon the pbwer of the
legislature in that regard. The Supreme Court in the
present case construed the statute as not so exacting of.
public accountants. In other words, it was decided that
the indicated professions require a license or certificate
but that a public accountant requires none. And it'was
decided that a public accountant gets no right of business
from the grant of a certificate; he loses no.right of Vusiness by its cancellation.
The statute is not, nor are the proceedings before the
Board, such as plaintiff in error conceives them. The

DIAZ v. PATTERSON.
Statement of the Case.

394

cases he cites are, therefore, not pertinent and need no
review.'
The motion to affirm must be granted.
So ordered.

DOMINGO DIAZ A., ET AL. v. PATTERSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 113. Argued November 28, 1923.--Decided December 10, 1923.
1. Owners of a registered title to land in the Canal Zone who are
in possession .and have maintained it for the period of extraordinary
prescription (Civ. Code, Art. 2531,) cannot be disseized and deprived of the property by the mere registration of what purports
to be a conveyance by a stranger to the title and subsequent lapse
of the ten year period of ordinary prescription. Civ. Code, Art.

2526. P. 400.
2. Reasons for fpllowing local decisions in Porto Rico, with its own
peculiar system of law, do not apply in the same degree to the
Panama Code in its present applicatioh to the Canal Zone. P: 402.
3. A decisidn of the Circuit Court of Apjeals reversing a decree of
the Court of the Canal Zone, held not res judicata on second
appeal to the former court or oa review of its final decision here.
P. 402.
4. Failure of the court to order notice to unknown claimants in a
suit over title to land will not avail a plaintiff who fails to establish any title or interest in himself. P. 402.
281 Fed. 394, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree recovered by the defendant, here
appellee, in a suit brought by the appellants in the,
United States Court for the Canal Zone to confirm their
title to a tract of land and, later, to the money for which
it was expropriated }Iy the United States.
'Hill v. W'allabe, 259 U. S. 44; Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S. 425,
428; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; New York Life Insurance
Co. v. Dodge, 246 U. S. 357; Adams v. Tanner; 244.U. S. 590. Some
state .cases were cited.

