CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
FRESE, ADMINISTRATRIX OF FRESE, v. CHICAGO, BURLINGTON & QUINCY RAILROAD
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE. STATE OF
.MISSOURI.

No. 27. Argued October 3, 1923.-Decided October 15, 1923.
Where a state statute makes it the duty of a locomotive engineer to
stop his train within a certain distance of a crossing of another
railroad, and positively to ascertain that the way is clear and that
the train can safely resume its course, "before proceeding to pass
the crossing, the duty is a personal one which cannot be devolved
by custom upon the fireman; andthe negligence of the engineer in
failing to comply with the duty is a defense to an action for his
resulting death, brought by his administratrix under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, notwithstanding a possibility that the
injury might have been avoided if the fireman had been more
vigilant. P. 3.
290 Mo. 501, affirmed.

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri which reversed a judgment against the respondent
railroad company, in an action by the petitioner for dam-,
ages, under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
CERTIORARI

Mr. John G. Parkinson for petitioner.
Even if the Missouri Supreme Court had the rightto
decide, in conflict with at decision of the Illinois Appellate
7430S°-24-----1

1

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U.S.

Court, that Frese, the engineer, was guilty of negligence
as a matter of law in not having prevented the collision,
the real and substantial cause of the collision was the
negligence of the fireman, Savage, and, under the provisions of § 3 of the Employers' Liability Act, a recovery
cannot be denied to the plaintiff, but only diminished in
the proportion that the negligence of Frese bore to the
combined negligence of Frese and Savage. Union Pacific
R. R. Co. v. Hadley, 246 U. S. 330.
Mr. M. G. Roberts, with whom Mr. Bruce Scott, Mr.
H. J. Nelson and Mr. E. Il. Spencer were on the brief,
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an action in Missouri under the Federal Employers' Liability Act for the death of the plaintiff's (petitioner's) intestate, caused by a collision in Illinois
.between engines of the defendant and the Wabash Railroad Company at a grade crossing. The deceased, Frese,
was the engineer in charge of the defendant's engine. A
statute of Illinois [Hurd's Rev.'Stats., 1916, c. 114, § 75]
required that "All trains running on any railroad in this
State, when approaching a crossing with another railroad
upon the same level, or when approaching a swing or
draw bridge, in use as such, shall be brought to a full stop
before reaching the same, and within eight hundred (800)
feet therefrom, and the engineer or other person in charge
of the engine attached to the train shall positively ascertain that the way is clear and that the train can safely
resume its course before proceeding to pass the bridge or
crossing." Southern Ry. Co. v. King, 217 U. S. 524.
Frese brought his train to a stop somewhat over two hundred feet from the crossing, and the Wabash train stopped
at about three hundred feet from it. But the view of the

FRESE v. C., B. & Q. R.R.

3

Opinion of the Court.

Wabash track from the Burlington was obstructed intermittently until the Wabash track was reached. The two
trains did not discover each other, but started on again
and collided, killing Frese. The Supreme Court of Missouri held that, as the engine was under the control of
the engineer who was killed, the statute of Illinois imposed upon him the imperative duty positively to ascer-tain that the way was clear before entering upon the
crossing; that if he had done so he would not have been
killed, and that the plaintiff could not recover. Judgment was ordered for the defendant. 290 Mo. 501.
The plaintiff contends that there was evidence of contributory negligence on the part of the fireman, Savage,
and therefore that, even if Frese was negligent, that would
not be a bar to this action under the Employers' Liability
Act. But the only evidence as to the fireman came from
a man who was standing on the ground as the engine
passed him. He says that it looked to him that the fireman then was looking through the front window at that
time and that he continued in that position up to say
fifty or sixty feet from the crossing of the tracks. The
fireman was on the left on the side of the other approaching train, the engineer on the right where he could not
see so well. But of course the witness could not testify
which way the fireman turned his eyes after he saw only
his back, and it is a mere speculation to argue that Savage
did not do all that he could. Moreover, the statute makes
it the personal duty of the engineer positively to ascertain
that the train can safely resume its course. Whatever
may have been the practice, he could not escape this duty,
and it would be a perversion of the Employers' Liability
Act, (April 22, 1908, c. 149, § 3;35 Stat. 65, 66,) to hold
that he could recover for an injury primarily due to his
failure to act as required, on the ground that possibly the
injury might have been prevented if his subordinate had
done more. See Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Wiles, 240

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U. S.

U. S. 444, 448. If the engineer could not have recovered
for an injury his administratrix can not recover for his
death. Michigan CentralR. R. Co. v. Vreeland, 227 U. S.
59, 70. There is no doubt that the statute of Illinois
applied to this case.
Judgment affirmed.

BREDE v. POWERS,, UNITED STATES MARSHAL
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE -UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 45. Argued October 4, 1923.-Decided October 22, 1923.
1. The sections of the Revised Statutes governing the places in which
sentences of imprisonment for crime may be executed are in pari
materia and should be construed together. P. 11.
2. The power of the District Court to sentence to imprisonment in
another State, in a penal institution designated by the Attorney
General under Rev. Stats., § 5546, is not confined to cases in which
the imprisonment is for more than a year - or- at hard labor
(§§ 5541, 5542,) but exists also where the sentence is for imprisonment merely, for a year or less. Id.
3. Under § 21 of Title II of the National Prohibition Act, which
declares any building, boat, vehicle, place, etc., where intoxicating
liquor is manufactured, sold, kept, or bartered in violation of that
title, to be a common nuisance, and prbvides that any person
maintaining such nuisance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
punishable by fine of not more than $1,000, or imprisonment for
not more than one year, or both, the imprisonment imposed cannot
be at hard labor or in a penitentiary; and, the offense, not being
infamous, may be prosecuted by information. P. 12.
4..A law of New Jersey (1917, c. 271,) authorizing the board of
chosen freeholders of any county to "cause to be employed"'
within the county any or all prisoners in any county jail, construed
as not contemplating the requirement of labor as a punishment.
P. 13.
279 Fed. 147, affirmed.

