DENBY v. BERRY.
25

29

Syllabus.

is liable as for any other act of its agents ithin the scope
of their employment in carrying on the business of a common carrier. Philadelphia,Wilmington & Baltimore R.
R. Co. v. Quigley, 21 How. 202, 210; Genga v. Director
General of Railroads, 243 Mass. 101.
We have not before us the question whether the Director General might be held for exemplary damages in a
case like this, under the restrictions of Order No. 50, as
construed in the Ault Case, because, as already said, the
court limited the recovery to compensatory damages.
Affirmed.
DENBY, SECRETARY OF THE NAVY OF THE
UNITED STATES, v. BERRY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 47.

Argued October 5, 1923.-Decided November 12, 1923.

1. The act establishing the Naval Reserve Force, (August 29, 1916,)
impliedly empowered the President, at his discretion, or the Secretary of the Navy acting for him, to change the status of an officer
of that force from active service in the Navy to the status of
inactive duty. P. 32.
2. A mere change of status from active service, to inactive duty in
the Naval Reserve Force, is not a retirement within the meaning
of Rev. Stats., § 1455, which refers to officers in the Regular Navy;
nor under the Acts of July 1, 1918, and June 4, 1920, which made7
that section applicable to officers on active service in the Reserve
Force when disabled in the line of duty. P. 34.
3. An order of the Secretary of the Navy retiring an officer to inactive duty in the Naval Reserve Force being discretionary, the
Secretary cannot be required by mandamus to revoke it, even
though based on his erroneous belief that such officer was not
entitled under the Acts of July 1, 1918, and June 4, 1920, to be
retired on pay when disabled in line of duty. P. -36.
4. A naval regulation providing that when -any officer on the active
list becomes physically incapacitated to perform his duties, he will

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

30

Opinion of the Court.

263. U. S.

be ordered before a retiring board (Nav, Reg. 1913, 331 [5]) did
not bind the Secretary as a rule of law, under Rev. Stats., § 154 .
after it was transferred to the instructions to naval retiring boards
by order of the President. (Nay. Courts and Boards, 1917, § 679.)
P. 37.
5. The right of a naval officer, disabled in the line of duty, to be
retired on pay, is dependent by statute on the judgment of the
President, not that of the courts; and the remedy of the officer
when his application for a retirement board is disapproved by the
Secretary, is by appeal directly to the President. (Nay. Ins.
1913, § 5323.) P. 38.
51 App. D. C. 335; 279 Fed. 317, reversed.

EmoR to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, which affirmed, in part, a mandamus issued by the Supreme Court of the District requiring the Secretary of the Navy to revoke an order directing
the release of the relator,-Berry, from active service in
the Navy, and to make an order sending him before a
retiring board, with a view to his retirement by the
President.
Mr. GeorgeRoss Hull, with whom Mr. Solicitor General
Beck, Mr. Rufus S. Day, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, and Mr. George Melling were on the
brief,- for plaintiff in error.
Mr., Daniel Thew Wright, with whom Mr. Philip
Ershler was on the brief, for defendant in error.

MR. CHMF JusTIcE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This was a petition for mandamus filed in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia by a member and
officer of the Naval 'Reser~ve Force, as relator, to compel
the Secretary of the Navy to revoke an order directing
-the release of the relator from active service in'the Navy
and to make an order sending him before a Retiring
Board, with a view to his retirement by the President.

DENBY v. BERRY.
29

Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court sustained a demurrer to the amended
answer of the Secretary and, the latter electing not to
plead further, the court issued a mandamus as prayed.
The Secretary carried the ease on appeal to the Court
of Appeals of the District, which affirmed the part of
the mandamus directing revocation of the order of release and reversed the part requiring that the Secretary
send the relator before a Retiring Board. The Secretary brings this writ of error to the judgment of the
Court of Appeals. The case involves the construction
,of the general statutes-of the United States applicable to
the Naval Reserve Force and the retirement of its officers.
We," therefore, have jurisdiction of the.writ under § 250,
par. 6, of the Judicial Code.
The relator, being an officer in the Naval Reserve
Force, was ordered before a naval board of medical sur*vey, and on October 14, 1919, was found by that board
to be under permanent disability which was incurred in
line 6f duty and was not the result of his own misconduct.
The board recommended that the relator be sent before a
retiring board. The Secretary of the Navy forwarded
this recommendation to the Bureau of Navigation, the
executive bureau of the Navy, disapproved, and directed
that "this officer be ordered to proceed to his home and
be released from active duty ". The Bureau of Navigation, on November 17, 1919, accordingly issued to the
relator this announcement: "You are hereby detached
from such duty as may have been assigned you; you
will proceed to your home and regard yourself honorably
discharged from active service in the Navy ". The relator
wrote to the Secretary of the Navy requesting that his
case be referred to a retiring board for consideration, to
which the Secretary replied denying the plaintiff's right
either to have his case so considered or to be placed -on
the retired list. The next day, November 18, 1919, this
action was brought.

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

The Court of Appeals held that because the relator as
Naval Reserve officer, if disabled in the line of duty, was
eligible for retirement under the same conditions as
provided for regular naval officers, and because no officer
of the Navy could under § 1455, Rev. Stats. be retired
from active service or wholly retired without a full
and fair hearing before a navy retiring board if he
should demand it, the Secretary had retired him from the
service in violation of law and that he could be compelled to revoke his action. This would reinstate him to
the status of a Naval Reserve officer in the active service
with full pay as such from October 18, 1919.
The Naval Reserve Force was established by the Naval
Appropriation Act of August 29, 1916, c. 417, 39 Stat.
556, 587. By its provisions, the Naval Reserve Force
was to be composed of citizens of the United States who
by enrollment therein or transfer thereto should obligate
themselves to serve in the Navy in time of war or during
an emergency declared by the President. Enrollment
was to be for four years. A clothing gratuity was allowed
and retainer pay of $12.00 a year or more according to
class was to be paid to those who kept the Secretary
advised of their whereabouts. The same grades and
ranks were provided up to the rank of Lieutenant Commander as existed in the rank and file of the Navy. The
President commissioned the commissioned officers. The
Secretary issued warrants to the warrant officers. During peace or when no national emergency existed, members might be discharged at their own request on return
of the clothing gratuity. Members might be ordered into
active service in the Navy by the President in time of War
or when in his opinion a national emergency existed, and
might be required to perform such service throughout
the war or until the national emergency ceased to exist.
Enrolled members were to be subject to-the laws, regulations and orders for the government of the regular Navy

DENBY v; BERRY.
Opiiion of the Court.

29

only during such time as they might be required in the
active service. The members of the Force when in active
service were entitled to the same pay, allowance, gratuities
and other emoluments as men of the same rank or grade
in the regular Navy, but when on inactive duty they
were entitled only to what was expressly provided in the
act. The Secretary of the Navy was to make all necessary and proper regulations not inconsistent with law
for the administration of these Naval Reserve Force provisions.
It is quite evident from the foregoing that members
of this force occupied two statuses, one that of inactive
duty, and the other of active service. It is further clear
that it was within the power of the President, and of the
Secretary of the Navy acting for him, to change the members of the Reserve Force from one status to the other.
The power to call them from inactive duty to actual
service was express. The power to order them from actual service to inactive duty was necessarily implied.
How this should be done, was within the discretion of the
President and his alter ego in the Navy Department, the
Secretary. United States v. Jones, 18 How. 92, 95. The
vesting of the right to make regulations to carry out the
act in the Secretary shows that he was to act for the
President. As a matter of practice in the Department,
the method of calling out the members of the Reserve
Force, and of sending them back to inactive duty, was by
order of the Secretary of the Navy (Gen. Order No. 237
of October 6, 1916) left to the Bureau of Navigation, and
under that Bureau mobilization and demobilization of
the Reserve Force'were carried on unde special orders'
and circulars. Orders releasing individuals from active
service and putting them on inactive duty were clearly
within the power of the President and of the Secretary
of the Navy acting for'him in the administration of- the
74308*-24---3

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U.S.

act. Nowhere is there found any limitation upon the
discretion of the Executive in this regard. The orders
in such cases were in the nature of military orders by
the Commander-in-Chief in the assignment or withdrawal of available forces to or from duty for the good
of the service. Such orders of withdrawal could not and
did noi make members of the Naval Reserve Force civilians. They did not release them from obligation under
their enrollment to render active service again when
ordered to do so 'by the proper authority. When the
Bureau of Navigation detached relator from active duty
and told him to go home and regard himself as honorably
discharged from active service in the Navy,'he was not
ousted from the Naval Reserve Force or the Navy. The
words "honorably discharged" were only to advise him
and others that the change of his status from active to
inactive -duty was not because of his fault or misconduct.
The Court of Appeals, however, construed this order
to be an effort to retire the relator from the Navy in the
sense in which that term is used in § 1455, Rev. Stats.,
which reads as follows:
"No officer of the Navy shall be retired from active
service, or wholly retired from the service, without a full
and fair hearing before such Navy retiring-board, if he
shall demand it, except in cases where he may be retired
by the President at his own request, or on account of
age or length of service, of on account of his failure to be
an examining board for -promotion."
recommended
I This section by
was adopted in 1861 (c. 42, 12 Stat. 291,).
and applied to regular officers in the Navy. The retirement from active service, and complete retirement provided in the section, are to be understood as they apply to
such officers. Officers in the Regular Navy who have become unfit for service before the retiring age are subject
to three methods of retirement. One is when the disability is in the line of duty and their retirement pay is

DENBY v. BERRY.
29

Opinion of the Court-

three-fourths of the pay of their rank 6n active duty.
The other two are when the disability is not incurred in
line of duty; and in one the retirement pay is furlough
or one-half of leave of absefice pay of their rank in active
service, and in the other there is full retirement to civilian life on a year's full pay of their rank. §§ 1453, 1454,
Rev. Stats. Section 1455 was enacted to prevent an abuse
of the power of retirement by superior officers. Section
1455, Rev. Stats., has been made applicable to officers on
active service in the Naval Reserve Force when disabled
in line of duty, first by implication in a proviso of the
Act of July 1, 1918, c. 114, 40 Stat. 704, 710, "that no
member of the-Naval Reserve Force shall be eligible for
retirement otter than- for physical disability incurred in
line of duty;" and then, after. this suit was brought, by
direct provision in Act of June 4, 1920, c. 228, 41 Stat.
834, as follows:
"That all officers of the Naval Reserve Force and
temporary officers of the Navy who have heretofore incurred or may hereafter incur physical disability in line
of duty shall be eligible for retirement, under the same
conditions as now provided by law for officers of the
Regular Navy who have incurred physical disability-in
line of duty.'?
By Act approved July 12, 1921, c. 44, 42 Stat. 122, 140,
the above was amended by adding a proviso as follows:
"Provided, however, That *applicationfor such retirement
shall be filed with the Secretary of the Navy not later
than October 1, .192." The proviso shows reflexively
that Congress had always intended to give one entitled
to retirement the right to apply for it.
To*be retired from active service under the sections
frbm 1448 to 1455, Rev. Stats., inclusive, means retired
with *pay and has had this meaning for many years.
Brown v.VUnited States, 113 U. S. 568, 572. To be wholly
retired means to be removed from ihe. service entirely on

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion df the Court.

263 U. S.

payment of a lump sum and to become a civilian. Miller
v. United States, 19 Ct. Clms. 338, 353, 29,Ops. Atty.
Gen. 401. No form of retireinent isa remval by way of
punishment. Indeed, § 1456, R ev. State., expressly forbids retirement because of ai'sconduct on account of
which an officer may be sent before a court martial. It is
very clear, therefore, that a iete ,change of status from
active service to inactive duty in the Naval Reserve Force
is not a "retirement" in the meaninig of § 1455, Rev.
Stats., the Act of July 1, 1918, or that of June 4, 1920.
There was no reason why, after the relator had been
ordered to inactive duty ii the Naval, Reserve Force, he
might not have applied for retirement under the provision
of the Act of 1918, or later under the Act of June 4, 1920.
But it is said that the Secretary directed the release of
the relator from active service ahd refused him a retiring
board because he was of opinion that under the Act of
July 1,. 1918, and before the Act of June 4, 1920, Reserve
Force officers were not entitled to be retired on pay, but
that they must apply for the relief extended to persons
disabled in the service by §§ 300 and 302 of the War Risk
Insurance Act of October 6, 1917, c. 105, 40 Stat. 398, 405,
406. Because the Secretary gave a wrong reason for his
action is not a ground for requiring him by mandamus to
revoke the order puttingithe relator on inactive duty, if he
had discretion to do this, as we have found he did have.
Nor was the Secretary of the Navy under obligation to
order the relator before a retiring board because a board
of medical survey recommended it.
Section 1448, Rev. Stats., provides that whenever an
officer reports himself unable to perform his duties or
whenever in the opinion of the President he is incapacitated, the President may in his discretion direct the Secretary of the Navy to refer the case to a Retiring Board.
By the following sections, 1449 to 1454, the Board is to
report its finding as to the incapacity of the officer, and,

DENBY v. BERRY.
29

Opinion of'the Court.

if it exists, whether it was an incident of the service.
The record is to be transmitted to the Secretary and by
him laid before the President, whose approval is necessary
to the retirement.
The mode of dealing with cases of disability is covered
by the regulations of the Navy approved by the President
to which the statute gives the force of law. § 1547, Rev.
Stats. Naval Regulation 361 of 1913 gave authority to
the commander-in-chief of a fleet, commandant of a station, or other. commanding officer, to order a medical survey of any person in his command. Under Regulation 364
the Board of Survey of an offcer was authorized to recommend treatment, or sick leave, but if the disability was
deemed permanent, it might recommend that the officer
be ordered before a Retiring Board. By Regulation 365
when a person surveyed was within the United States or

the waters thereof, or in the Caribbean or adjacent waters,
and was found unfit for duty, and the commandihg officer
approved the finding and recommendation of the Board
as to what should be done, this was to be carried out
ccexcept in cases involving discharge, travel, leave, or retirement, which shall be referred to the department."
Regulation 331, sub-division 5, once provided:
"When any officer on the active list becomes physically
incapacitated to perform the duties of his office, and the
probable future duration of such incapacity is permanent
or indefinite, he will immediately be ordered before a retiring board, and pending final action upon the question
of his retirement will not be examnined for promotion".
Counsel for the relator has maintained that the Secretary by reason of this regulation is under ' statutory
dutr to order a retiring Board for an officer physically in-

capacitated and that he has no discretion in the matter.
Its history and tlie abuse it *vas intended to stop, as well
as § 1448, would make such a construction hard to sustain, but we need not go into this. It suffices to say that,

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

adopted in 1915, it has since lost its statutory force. By
order of the President, dated Jafiuary 14, 1916, it was
stricken from the Navy Regulations and was thereafter
embodied in instructions to Naval Retiring Boards. (Sec.
679, Naval Courts and Boards, 1917.) Even if it could
have been construed as claimed when it had the effect
of law) it could not now be made the basis of a proceeding in mandamus against the Secretary. It governs his
subordinates only and may be ignored by him. United
States v. Burns, 12 Wall. 246, 252; Smith v. United
States, 24 Ct. Clms. 209. A board of medical survey is
simply an executive instrumentality -which the Secretary
may use to obtain an expert opinion as to the physical
capacity of an officer or man. Its recommendations
involving retirement must always come to the Secretary
-for his approval. In the due course of business in the
Navy Department applications for retirement dependent
on disability must also come before the Secretary who,
acting for and in aid of the President, makes preliminary
inquiry into the need of ordering a retiring board. The
statute does not require the President to direct the Secretary of the Navy to refer a case to a retiring board. It
expressly puts it in the discretion of the President to do
so or not to do so. It would be a curious inconsistency
in the procedure if the Secretary were compelled by law
to order a retiring board to consider an officer's case which
the President is given discretion to grant or withhold.
But it is argued that an officer disabled in the line of
his duty is by § 1455 entitled as of right to retirement on
pay and that the courts should secure him that right.
The right is one dependent by statute on the judgment
of the President and not on that .of the courts. If on
the preliminary inquiry of the Secretary, he disapproves
the application for a retiring board, the officer may appeal directly to the President for action on his petition.
This opportunity was provided by section 5323, Naval
Instructions, 1913, and would exist without it.

McCONAUGHEY v. MORROW.
29

39

Syllabus.

For these reasons, we think that the demurrer to the
answer should have been overruled.
Judgment reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings.
McCONAUGHEY, FOR HIMSELF AND OTHERS,
EMPLOYEES OF THE PANAMA CANAL AND OF
THE PANAMA RAILROAD COMPANY,. v. MORhROW, GOVERNOR OF THE PANAMA CANAL,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 48.

Submitted October 4, 1923.-Decided November 12, 1923.

1. In a suit in the United States District Court for the Canal Zone
to restrain the Governor and other officials of the Panama Canal
from carrying out an order of the President, upon the ground that
plaintiffs will thereby be deprived of personal or property rights
contrary to the federal laws and Constitution, an objection that the
suit is in effect against the United States does not raise a question
of the jurisdiction of the trial court as a federal court reviewable
directly by this Court under Jud. Code, § 238, as amended January 28, 1915. P. 41.
2. The Act of September 21, 1922, providing that review by the Circdit Court of Appeals,-Fifth Circuit, of judgments of the District
Court for the Cagal Zone shall include all questions of jurisdiction,
was expressly inapplicable to cases then pending in the former
court, and, by implidration, does not affect a case which had passed
through that court and was pending here on appeal from its judgment at the date of the act. P. 42.
3. The Panama Canal Act of August 24, 1912, in declaring "That
all laws, orders, regulations, and ordinances adopted and promulgated in the Canal Zone by order of the President for the government and sanitation of the Canal Zone and the construction of the
Panama Canal are hereby ratified and confirmed as valid and
binding until Congress shall otherwise provide," refers to regulations, etc., rising to the dignity of laws, for the purposes named,
and didnot divest the Prcsident of power to revoke previous ad-

