88

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U.S.

f -_pted the Legislature of the state to provide that the
amount of the award should bear interest until paid as
the best and fairest available method of providing against
the possible consequences just suggested. Without holding that the requirement for payment of interest is one
of the 'modes of proceeding' which, by section 2 of the
act of August 1, 1888, is made compulsory upon the courts
of the United States, we are satisfied to conform to it as
a palpably fair and reasonable method of performing the
indispensable condition to the exercise of the right of
eminent domain, namely, of making'just compensation'
for the land as it stands, at the time of taking. 'The time
of taking' under the Minnesota statute, supra, is when
the payment is made for it. . . . It is better, when
possible, to act in harmony rather than in conflict with the
established policy of a state."
In the last opinion of this Court on the question of
interest in the appropriation of land by the United States,
that in SeaboardAir Line Ry. v. United States, 261 U. S.
299, 306, the case of United States v. Sargent and part of
the language above quoted is cited with approval.
Judgment affirmed.
SCHWAB v. RICHARDSON, AS TREASURER OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 81. Submitted October 15, 1923.--Decided November 12, 1923.
1.A State may tax the franchise of a corporation of its own creation
upon a valuation arrived at by deducting from the actual or market
value of its capital stock the value of its tangible property within
and without the State, by assigning, as the assessable and taxable
value within the State, such part of this differenae as is proportional to the business of the corporation transacted there, compared with its outside business, and by levying the tax upon a
percentage of this taxable value. P. 91.

SCHWAB v. RICHARDSON.
88

Opinion of the Court.

2. A tax so assessed, not excessive in amount, on a corporation
largely, engaged in interstate and foreign commerce, held, not
objectionable as depriving the corporation of property without
due process of law or as regulating or burdening such commerce. Id.
188 Cal. 27, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of California which affirmed a judgment given on the pleadings
against the plaintiff in error in his suit to recover a tax,
paid under protest.
Mr. W. I. Brobeck and Mr. Herbert W. Clark for plaintiff in error.
Mr. U. .Webb, Attorney General of the State of California, for defendant in error. Mr. Frank L. Guerena,
Deputy Attorney General, was also on the brief.
MR.JusTIcF MCKEwA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The case presents the validity of state taxation on the
franchise of the Oceanic Steamship Company, a corporation of the State of California.
There is no dispute of facts. The case turns entirely
upon the law applicable to them. The Company was"
organized to engage under California laws in the transportation of freight and passengers between San Francisco
and the Hawaiian Islands and certain foreign countries,
and did no intrastate business except the purchase of its
fuel and supplies used in its transportation business.
The Company made a written report to the State Board
of Equalization as required by the law of the State. The
report contained a concise statement and description of
every franchise enjoyed by the Company, and other matters required of the Company by the law.
The Board, in pursuance of the law and the constitutidn
of the State, determined the value of the franchise granted
by the State to be $120,000 and assessed and levied a tax

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Orpinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

thereon of one per cent. whicn amounted to the sum of
$1,200. It is contended that the assessment and levy were
and are void under ยง 1 of Amendment XIV of the Constitution of the United States, because thereby the Board
assessed and taxed the Company on property the situs of
which was, for more than a year prior to the assessment,
and is, without the State of California and beyond the
jurisdiction of the State for, the purpose of taxation, and
attempts to regulate and burden interstate and foreign
commerce.
The specification of the means is expressed in the complain t, in addition to the situation of the Company's property, as follows: The Company engaged in business outside of the State. In assessing the franchise of the Company the Board of Equalization did so in pursuance of a
fixed rule and general system which necessarily was discriminatory and inequitable. The Board ascertained the
actual or market value of the capital stock of the Company, which was constituted of all the value of its property outside of the State, and from such sum deducted the
value of the tangible property of the Company in and out
of California, and the sum thus ascertained was held by
the Board to be the value of the franchise of the Company. The Board then ascertained the percentage and
proportion of the total business of the Company transacted in California during the year 1913, and determined
the same percentage and proportion of the total franchise
value to be the value of the franchise assessable and taxable in California, and the Board thereupon took 15%
of that sum, which amounted to $120,000, and on that
sum levied a tax at the rate of 1%, amounting to $1,200.
And it is alleged that the market value of the shares of
capital stock of the Company was at all times materially
increased by reason of, and in a great part due to, the
ownership and use by the Company of the property outside of the State.

SCHWAB v. RICHARDSON.
88

Opinion of the Court.

The Company paid the tax under protest. It subsequently assigned its claim to Edwin Schwab, plaintiff in
error, who brought this action in the Superior Court of
San Francisco against the State, basing the ground of
action upon the illegality of the tax.
The answer of the Treasurer to *thecomplaint admitted
the assessment of the franchise but denied that the
method pursued by the Board: of Equalization in the
assessment produced a result which was unnecessarily or
at all discriminatory, or necessarily or at all inequitable'.
Denied that the assessment was or is void under any
law or for any reason whatsoever, or that the Board
assessed or taxed the Company on any property the situs
of which was or is without the State or beyond the jurisdiction of the State for the purpose of assessment.
Alleged that the value of the franchise was the sum
fixed by the Board.
Judgment was moved on the pleadings, and plaintiff in
error elected to stand on the motion without introducing
evidence. The motion was denied and judgment rendered against him. It was affirmed by the Supreme
Court. 188 Cal. 27.
Three contentions are made against the assessment
and levy. (1) They deprive the Company of its property
without due process of law. (2) They are an attempt to
regulate interstate and foreign conimerce. (3) They are
burdens upon interstate commerce.
The argument is that they have such effect because
they are "based on the value of property outside, bf
California and on interstate and foreign commerce engaged in, so that the amount of" them "grows in proportion to the growth of such property and commerce."
. The basis of the contention is not a new one in this
Court. It is not always easy to answer and has involved
difference of opinion. Any property of a corporation
engaged in interstate commerce may be said to take on

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

value from such commerce and a tax on Ihe property be
increased as the commerce increases. The cases, however, have been careful to distinguish when such effect
produces illegality and when it does not.
They have been careful to declare the immunity of
interstate commerce from state taxation, but as careful
to declare the power of a State to tax values within its
borders though they may get enhancement from the exercise of rights outside of those borders. How intimate
and direct such rights must be cannot be pronounced in
formnla. A State may not burden or interfere with
interstate commerce or tax property outside of its borders, yet, on the other hand, it has. a definite sphere of
government which must not be curtailed. Certainly it
is not restricted to property taxation, nor to any particular form of excises.
The exertion of the power of a State in taxation has
been considered in many cases. A review of them we do
not think is necessary. Their pertinence and value are
not insistent. The present case is more single. Its instance-the taxation exercised-is upon intangible property. The power of a State over that has been declared
many times and has many illustrations. The case is,
therefore, free from the perplexity of a consideration of
situs which may beset tahigible property. Union Refrigerator Transit Co.v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194. It is
strictly a franchise .tax laid on the Company because it
lerives its existence-its right to be-from the State.
This is the field within which this case lies and we are
not concerned with those which reach beyond that field.
To this we confine ourselves. The State has taxed the
right which it granted, and which it was competent to
tax. Horn Silver Mining Co. v. New York, 143 U. S.
305. Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S.
688; Kansas City, etc., Ry. Co.v. Botkin, 240 U. S. 227;
Cream of Wheat Co.v. Grand Forks, 253 U. S. 325. And

SCHWAB v. RICHARDSON.
88

Opinion of the Court.

it has been recognized that its-the franchise's-value
may be constituted of its employment in interstate commerce, and have measurement in the property which is
its instrumentality. Kansaos City, etc. Ry. Co. v. Botkin,
supra; St. Louis-San Francisco Ry. Co. v. Middlekamp,
256 U. S. 226.
Plaintiff in error resists these cases, yet concedes the
power of the State to tax the franchise-a " right of its
own creation," and concedes that neither the constitutional provisions nor the statute under which the tax was
levied "are on their face obnoxious to the commerce or
due process -clause of the Federal Constitution." That
effect is worked, it is the contention, emphasized by repetition, because the tax is based in whole or in substantial
part on the value of the property outside of California,
or on interstate or foreign commerce engaged in, so that
the amount of it grows in proportion to the growth of
such property or commerce.
The contention and its basis are in antagonism to
the cases cited and their authority. A repetition of their
reasoning is unnecessary. They establish that the
method pursued by the Board was not illegally oppressive to interstate commerce or beyond the jurisdictional
power of the State. We agree with the Supreme Court
that it was admitted by the motion for judgment on the
pleadings, without introducing evidence, that the tax was
not excessive and that if the State had jurisdiction the
imposition of the tax was a proper exercise of it,
Judgment affirmed.

