. DAVIS v. WOLFE.
Opinion of the Court.

DAVIS, DESIGNATED AGENT UNDER THE
TRANSPORTATION ACT, v. WOLFE.
CERTIORARI

TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE

OF

MISSOURI.

No. 71.

Argued October 12, 1923.-Decided November 12, 1923.

1. Where a failure of a railway company to comply with the Safety
Appliance Act is the proximate cause of an accident resulting in
injury to an employee while in the discharge of his duty, he may
recover, although the operation in which he was engaged was not
of the kind in which the appliances required by the act were

specifically designed to furnish him protection. P. 241.
2. So held where a conductor, engaged in signalling orders for the
movement of a freight train while riding on the side of a car with
his feet in a sill-step and one hand grasping a grab-iron, was thrown
to the ground, as the train moved forward contrary to his order,
and was run over, his fall being attributable to the loose condition
of the grab-iron.
294 Mo. 170, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Missouri affirming a judgment recovered by a railway
employee in an action for personal injuries, under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act.

Mr. Frank H. Sullivan, with whom Mr. Thos. P. Littlepage, Mr. William 0. Reeder and Mr. Homer T. Dick

were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Sidney Tkorne Able and Mr. P. H. Cullen, for
respondent, submitted. Mr. Charles P. Noeli and Mr.
Walter L. Brady were also on the brief.
MR.

JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The respondent Wolfe brought this action in a Circuit
Court of Missouri to recover damages for personal injuries suffered by him while employed as the conductor

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

of a freight train on a railroad under federal control,
basing his right of recovery upon the Employers' Liability
Act in connection, primarily, with an alleged violation
of the provisions of the Safety Appliance Act of March 2,
1893, c. 196, 27 Stat. 531, as amended by the Act of March
2, 1903, c. 976, 32 Stat. 943. He had a verdict and judgment; and the judgment was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State. 294 Mo. 170.
The petitioner contends that there was no evidence to
take the case to the jury under the Safety Appliance Act
and that it was erroneously held to be applicable in the
situation presented.
Section 4 of 'the original act, as amended by the Act of
1903, provides that, until otherwise ordered by the Inter:state Commerce Commission, it shall be unlawful to use
on any railroad engaged in interstate commerce any car
"not provided with secure grab irons or handholds in the
ends and sides

.

.

.

fcr greater security to men in

coupling and uncoupling cars." Southern Railway v.
United States, 222 U. S.20, 24.
It was undisputed that the carrier was engaged in interstate commerce and that Wolfe was employed in such
commerce. As found by the Supreme Court of Missouri
his evidence tended to show the following facts: While
the freight train' of which he was conductor was at a
station, moving slowly, he was standing on the side of
one of the cars, with his feet in a sill-step fastened to the
bottom of the car within about a foot of its end, and
holding on with his right hand to a grab iron or handhold
directly over the sill-step and about three or four feet
from it. This grab iron consisted of a round iron bar bent
at the ends, which were bolted into the wooden side of the
.car. The wood had rotted or been worn away, so that
the bolts had a play or movement of about an inch, which
made the grab iron loose and defective and permitted it
to Xn6ve to that extent. While thus standing on the sill-

*DAVIS v. WOLFE.
239

Opinion Of the Court.

step and holding on to the grab iron with his right hand,
Wolfe signalled the fireman with his left hand to stop the
train. But instead of stopping it moved forward with a
violent jerk at accelerated speed, and by reason of the
movement of the loose grab iron to which Wolfe was
holding, he was caused to fall to the ground beside the
car and one of its wheels ran over his left arm and injured
it so that it had to be amputated at the shoulder joint.
It was, furthermore, not unusual for conductors or brakemen to stand in the sill-step and hold on to the grab iron
to signal orders as to the movement of the train. The
loose condition of the grab iron was not disputed.
The argument in behalf of the petitioner is, in substance, that on these facts Wolfe was not in a situation
where the defective grab iron operated as a breach of duty
imposed for his benefit by § 4 of the act, which, it is
urged, merely requires the furnishing and maintenance of
grab irons in behalf of employees engaged in coupling or
uncoupling cars or a service connected therewith, and
does not require them as a means of, or aid to, the transportation of employees.
While there is no previous decision of this Court relating to this aspect of § 4, a controlling analogy is-to be
found in its decisions as to the application of § 2 of the
act, which, as amended, makes it unlawful to use on a
railroad engaged in interstate commerce any car not
equipped with automatic couplers capable of being
coupled and uncoupled "without the necessity of men
going between the ends of the cars." This section has
been considered in four cases in which the injured employees were not engaged either in coupling or uncoupling
or in any service connected therewith.
In St. Louis Railroad v. Conarty, 238 U. S. 243, a
switch engine ran, in the dark, into a standing car whose
coupler and drawbar had been pulled out, and the engine,
74:3o8--24---16

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

in' the absence of these appliances, coming in immediate
contact with the end of the car, a switchman riding on the
footboard of the engine was caught between it and the
body of the car; and in Lang v. New York Central Railroad, 255 U. S. 455, through failure to stop in time a
string of cars that had been kicked in on a siding, it ran
into a standing car whose coupler attachment and bumpers
were gone, and the brakeman on'the end of the string of
cars was caught between the car on which he was riding.
and -the standing car. In these cases it was held that,
the collisions not being proximately attributable to the
absence of automatic couplers, on the standing cars, the
carriers were not liable for the injuries received by the
employees, even if the collisions would not have resulted
in injuries to them had the couplers been on the standing
cars, the requirement of automatic couplers not being
intended to provide a place of safety between cars brought
into collision through other causes.
In Louisville Railroaa v. Layton, 243 U. S. 617, the
failure of couplers to work automatically in a switching
operation resulted in a collision of cars, from one of which
a brakeman was thrown while preparing to release
brakes; and in Minneapolis Railroad v. Gotschall, 244
U. S. 66, a brakeman was thr6wn from a train as the result of defective couplers coming open while the train was
in motion. In these cases, the defect in the eouplers
being in each the proximate cause of the injury, it was
held that'the employees were entitled to recover. In the
Layton Case the Court, after. spcifically distinguishing
the Conarty Case on the ground that in that case the collision -resulting in the injury was not proximately attributable to a violation of the act (p. 620), said:
"While it is undoubtedly true.that the immediate occasion for passing the laws requiring automatic couplers
wa the great number of deaths and injuries caused to
employees who were obliged to go between cars to couple

DAVIS v. WOLFE.
239

Opinion of the Court.

and uncouple them, yet these laws as written are by no
means confined in their terms to the protection of employees only when so engaged. The language of the acts
and the authorities we have cited make it entirely clear
that the liability in damages to employees for failure to
comply with the law springs from its being made unlawful to use cars not equipped as required,-not from the
position the employee may be in or the work which he
may be doing at the moment when he is injured. This
effect can be given to the acts and their wise and humane
purpose can be accomplished only by holding, as we do,
that carriers are liable to employees in damages whenever the failure to abey these safety appliance laws is
the proximate cause of injury to them when engaged in
the discharge of duty." (p. 621.)
The doctrine of this case was explicitly recognized in
the Lang Case, in which the Layton Case was distinguished, on the facts, on the ground that "necessarily
there must be a causal relation between the fact of delinquency and the fact of injury" (p. 459).
. The rule clearly deducible from these four cases is that,
on the one hand, an employee cannot recover under the
Safety Appliance Act if the failure to comply with its
requirements is not a proximate cause of the accident
which results in his injury, but merely creates an incidental condition or situation in which the accident, otherwise caused, results in such injury; and, on the other
hand, he can recover if the failure to comply with the
requirements of the act is a proximate cause of the accident, resulting in injury to him while in the discharge of
his duty, although not engaged in an operation in whidh
the safety appliances are specifically designed to furnish
him protection.
This construction of the act is substantially that given
by the Circuit Courts of Appeals of the Second, Fourth
and Sixth Circuits in Director General v. Roenald

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U. S.

(C. C. A.), 265 Fed. 138; PhiladelphidRailway v. Eisenhart (C. C. A.), 280 Fed. 271, and McCalmont v. Pennsylvania Railroad (C. C. A.), 283 Fed. 736; and by the
state courts in McNaney v. Chicago Railway, 132 Minn.
391, and Ewing v. Coal Railway Co., 82 W. Va. 427.
It results that in the present case, as there was substantial evidence tending .to show that the defective condition of the grab iron required by § 4 of the Safety Appli&ice Act was a proximate cause of the accident resulting
ininjury to Wolfe while in the discharge of his duty as
a conductor, the case Was properly submitted to the jury
under the act; and the issues having been determined by
the jury in his favor the judgment of the trial court was
in that behalf properly affirmed.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri is
Affirmd.
accordingly

CANUTE STEAMSHIP COMPANY, LTD., ET AL. v.
PITTSBURGH & WEST VIRGINIA COAL COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND

No. 72.

CIRCUIT.

Argued October 12, 15, 1923.--Decided November 12, 1923.

Under the Bankruptcy Act §§ 3b; 59b, 59f, where a petition for
involuntary bankruptcy, filed by three petitioners, is sufficient on
its fate, alleging that 'they are creditors with provable" claims, and
containing all averments essential to its maintenance, other creditors having provable claims who intervene in the proceeding and
join in the petition at any time during its pendency before an
adjudication is made, after as well as before the expiration of
four months from the alleged act of bankruptcy, are to-be counted
at the hearing in determining whether there are three petitioning
creditors qualified to maintain the petiti6n, it being immaterial
in such case whether the three qualified creditors joined in the
petition originally or by'intervention. P. 247.
283 Fed. 108, affirmed.

