EDWARD HINES TRUSTEES v. U. S.
137

Syllabus.

of a single ad valorem tax on railroads. Their construction of the state statutes is binding upon us. The trial
court found on adequate evidence that the aggregate assessment placed upon the tangible and the intangible
property of the railroad in Harris County was about 45
per cent. of their aggregate true value, whereas the other
property in the county was assessed at about 50 per cent.
of its true value. Thus the railroad was not, in essence,
subject to any discrimination. Compare Davenport Bank
v. Davenport, 123 U. S. 83. The requirement of the
equal protection clause was satisfied.
Affirmed.

EDWARD HINES YELLOW PINE TRUSTEES ET
AL. v. UNITED STATES, INTERSTATE COMAND
AMERICAN
MERCE - COMMISSION,
WHOLESALE LUMBER ASSOCIATION. APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 91. Argued October 18, 19, 1923.-Decided November 12, 1923.
1. To maintain a suit to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission upon the ground that it exceeded the powers of
the Commission, it is not essential that a plaintiff should have been
a party to the proceedings before the Commission in which the
order was made. P. 147.
2. But to maintain such a suit the plaintiff must show that the
order alleged to be void subjects him to actual or threatened legal
injury. P. 148.
3. Where the interest shown by a group of lumber manufacturers in
attacking an order of the Commission, which abolished a penalfy
charge on lumber held at reconsignment points, was in the handicap
which the charge imposed on competing jobbers, and in th.e possibility that its removal might divert the cars of carriers, including
those of their own projected railroad, from transportation to storage
usesr-hed, that they had no standing to sue to set the order aside,

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

144

Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

on the grounds that it exceeded the power of the Commission" and
violated the rights of carriers under the Fifth Amendment. Id.

Affirmed.

from a decree of the District Court dismissing
the bill in a suit to set aside an order of .the Interstate
Commerce Commission.

,

APEAL

Mr. William S. Bennet, with whom Mr. Homer J. Smith
and Mr. Edward W. McGrew were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr.Blackburn Esterline,Assistant to the Solicitor General, for the.United States.
Mr. P. J. Farrell for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr.Joseph- E. Davies, with whom Mr. Franklin D.
Jones and Mr. Raymond N. Beebe were on the brief, for
American Wholesale Lumber Association, appellee, by
special leave of Court.
MR.JUSTICE

Court.

BRAm.-DIns delivered the opinion of the

-.

-This suit was brought against the United States by an
Illinoig lumber concern in a federal court for Illinois to
set aside as void an order entered by the Interstate Commerce Commission against carriers on February 11, 1922.
The Commission and the American Wholesale Lumber
Association-the petitioner in - the proceedings before
it-intervened in this suit as defendants. No carriei intervened. The plaintiffs had not been parties to the proceedings before the Commission, nor were they namied in
the order assailed. The United States moved to dismiss
the billo the ground that the plaintiffs had not shown
such an interest in the subject matter as would entitle
them to-sue; and also for want of equity. - The case was
heard before three judges on application for a preliminary

'

EDWARD HINES TRUSTEES v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

143

injunction. It was agreed that the hearing should be
treated as a final hearing. The court sustained the motion of the United States and entered a final decree dismissing the bill. That decree is here on direct- appeal
under the Act of October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220.
The essential facts are these: On October 20, 1919, the
Director 6eneraI of Railroads established a so-called penalty charge of $10 per car per day on lumber held at_
reconsignment points.1 The declared purpose of the
charge was "to prevent undue detention of equipment
under the present emergency." The charge (in modified
form) remained in force throughout the period of federal
control; and thereafter it was- continued by the carriers.
'The penalty was made payable for each day or fraction thereof;
but only for the period that cars loaded with lumber.or other forest
products wer held for reconsignment beyond 48 hours after the.hour
at which free time began to run under the car demurrage rules. By
these rules 24 flours free time is allowed before any charge is made
for storage and detention of the car at the reconsignment point.
National Car Demurrage Rules (January, 1916) Rule 2, Sec. B, Par. 2.
The penalty charge is declared to be in "addition to any existing
demurrage and storage charges." Sullivan Lumber Co. v. Great
Northern Ry. Co., 58 I. C. C. 110, 111. The then existing demurrage
charges were $2 a day per car for the first four days after expiration
*of the free time; and $5 per day for the fifth day and each day there-after. Compare Lowry Lumber Co. v. DirectorGeneral, 58 I. C. C.
113; 59 I. C. C. 90; Wharton Steel Co. v. DirectorGeneral, 59 I. C. C.
613. Besides these demurrage charges there is a charge for the
reconsignment privilege of $3 per car when reconsignment-instructions
are received at the reconsignment point prior to the arrival of the car,
and a charge of $7 per car when the instructions are received after
the arrival of the car. Compare Reconsignment Case, 47 1. C. C.
590; Reconsignment Case No. 3, 53 I. C. C. 455. Unlike the penalty
charge, both demurrage charges and reconsignment charges are assessed upon shipments of all commodities. The demurrage charge is
in part compensation to the carrier and in part a penalty to secure
the release of equipment and tracks. Demurrage Charges,25 I. C. C.

314, 315.
7-1308o*-24----10

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

In September, 1920, the American Wholesale Lumber
Association instituted proceedings before the Commission
to secure cancellation of this charge as being unreasonable, unjustly discriminatory, unduly prejudicial and
without warrant in law. The transit car privilege, permitting storage in cars for a short period at reconsignment points, is deemed an essential of the business by its
members, who are largely jobbers and have no lumber
yards. Protests against cancellation-of the charge were
filed by some associations of lumber manufacturers and
,dealers who customarily ship direct from the mills to their
own lumber yards and have little occasion to use this
reconsignment privilege. The imposition of the penalty
charge was a direct benefit to them, since it subjected the
jobbers, their competitors, to a severe handicap, and to
that extent curbed the activities of these rivals. After
extensive hearings the .Comfnission held that. it was
within the power of the Director General, and of carriers,
to establish penalty charges in order to prevent undue
detention of equipment by shippers; that conditions existifig at the time had warranted the establishment of a
penalty charge; and that the charge then imposed had not
been shown to be unreasonable. But the Commissidn
also found that conditions had changed; that at the time
of its decision there was a large surplus of service cars,
which left the retention of the penalty charge without
justification; ind that while present conditiohs- continue
if is and will be unreasonable. An order was entered
requiring carriers "to cease and desist . . . uiitil further
order -of the Commission " from collecting the charge.
The-report stated "that our 'approval of the elimination
of the charge at this time is based solely on existing conditions, and is not to be construed as an inhibition on carriers to publish penalty charges in the future if and when
conditions warrant." American Wholesale Lumber Associationv. Director General, 66 I. C. C. 393, 395, 408.

EDWARD HINES TRUSTEES v. U. S.
14.3

Opinion of the Court.

Plaintiffs are large manufacturers -- d dealers whose
shipments are made mainly direct from the mills to destination. They claim that the order cancelling the penalty charge infringes their rightsboth as shipper and as
prospective carrier. As shipper they claim to be injured
because the jobbers are relieved from the handicap of the
penalty charge; and also because longer detention of the
cars at reconsignment points\ (which cancellation of the
charge encourages) will subject shippers to the danger of"
car shortage, whenever general business again becomes
active. Their claim of injury as prospective carrier is
this: Plaintiffs are constructing in connection with a mill
in Mississippi a local railroad which will soon be ready
for operation. Cars acquired by them for use on their
own railroad will naturally move to connecting lines and
may then, in the absence of a deterrng penalty charge,.
be used, like other cars, for temporary storage at reconsignment points; and the order of cancellation will encourage the use of plaintiff's cars for storage whereas their
only legal use is for transportation. In this way the
order entered not only prevents "the railroad from taking.
necessary steps to join the bulk of the lumber industry in
suppressing the evil and dishonest practices" of jobbers,
but prevents the railroads from charging an adequate
rental (the penalty charge) for their equipment. The
contention is that the order deprives railroads of the use
of their property without due process of law in violation
of the Fifth Amendment to the Federal Constitution to
the detriment of plaintiffs who are interested in maintaining both a wholesome lumber business and effective
transportation.
The mere fact that plaintiffs were not parties to the
proceedings in which the order was entered does not constitute a bar to this suit. For it is brought to set aside
an order alleged to be in excess of the Commission's
power. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Diffen-

OCTQBER.TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

baugh, 222 U. S. 42, 49; Skinner & Eddy Corporationv.
United States, 249 U. S. 557. But plaintiffs could not
maintain this suit merely by showing (if true) that the
Commission was without power to order the penalty
charges canceled. They must show also that the order
alleged to be void subjects them to legal injury, actual or
threatened. This they have wholly failed to do. It is
not alleged that the carriers wish to impose such charges
and, but for the prohibition contained in the order, would
do so. For aught that appears carriers are well satisfied
with the order entered. Cancellation of a charge by
which plaintiffs' rivals in business have been relieved of
the handicap theretofore imposed may- conceivably have
subjected plaintiffs to such losses as are incident to more
effective competition. But plaintiffs have no absolute
right to require carriers to impose penalty charges. Compare Interstate Commerce Commission v. Chicago, Rock
Island & Pacific Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 88, 111. Plaintiffs'
right is limited to protection against unjust discrimination. For discrimination redress must be sought by proceedings before the Commission. Its findings already
made, and the order enteied, negative such claim in this
connection. The correctness of those findings cannot be
assailed here; among other reasons, because the evidence
on which they were, made is not before the Court.
Louisiana & Pine Bluff Ry Co. v. United States, 257
U. S. 114.
The further claims of plaintiffs are, if possible, even
more unsubstantial. .They fear that, by reason of the
order, they may, in the future, suffer in times of car
shortage through the greater use of cars for storage.
They fear that the equipment to be used in connection
with the rmilroad which they expect to operate, may be
diverted, at some time in the future, from transportation
uses. If their fears are realized it will be open to them
to apply to the Commission for relief. As the plaintiff§

BILOKUMSKY v. TOD.
143

149

Syllabus.

do not show any interest which entitles them to sue, we
have no occasion to consider either the power of carriers
to impose the penalty charge or the power of the Commission to order its cancellation.
Affirmed.
"UNITED STATES EX REL: BILOKUMSKY v. TOD,
COMMISSIONER OF IMMIGRATION AT THE
PORT OF NEW YORK, FT AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 92. Argued October 19, 1923.-Decided November 12, 1923.
1. In proceedings by the immigration authorities to deport a. person
charged with being an alien within the United States in violation
of law, alienage is a jurisdictional fact, which must be found, to
sustain an order of deportation. P. 153.
2. The burden of proving alienage in such proceedings (with a.
statutory exception in Chinese cases), is on the Government. Id.
3. When an essential finding of fact in such- proceedings is unsupported by evidence, the courts may intervene by habeas corpus.

Id.
4. Where a person, arrested for deportation as an alien within the
United States in violation of law in that he had in his possession.
for distribution printed matter advocating overthrow of the Government by force or violence, upon being called and sworn as a
witness, by the Government, to prove his alienage, stood mute,-held, that admission of alienage, which is not an element of the
crime of sedition, would not have tended to incriminate him, and
that the immigration officers might properly have inferred, the
fact of alienage from his silence. P. 154.
5. Deportation proceedings are civil in character and the person
arrested may be compelled by legal process to testify whether he
is an alien. P. 155.
6. Mere interrogation under oath by a government official of one
lawfully in confinement is not a search and seizure. P. 155.
7. The rules of'the Secretary of Labor concerning depbrtation cases
do not require that a person under investigation prior to application for warrant of arrest, shall be advised of his right to have

