4

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U. S.

U. S. 444, 448. If the engineer could not have recovered
for an injury his administratrix can not recover for his
death. Michigan CentralR. R. Co. v. Vreeland, 227 U. S.
59, 70. There is no doubt that the statute of Illinois
applied to this case.
Judgment affirmed.

BREDE v. POWERS,, UNITED STATES MARSHAL
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE -UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 45. Argued October 4, 1923.-Decided October 22, 1923.
1. The sections of the Revised Statutes governing the places in which
sentences of imprisonment for crime may be executed are in pari
materia and should be construed together. P. 11.
2. The power of the District Court to sentence to imprisonment in
another State, in a penal institution designated by the Attorney
General under Rev. Stats., § 5546, is not confined to cases in which
the imprisonment is for more than a year - or- at hard labor
(§§ 5541, 5542,) but exists also where the sentence is for imprisonment merely, for a year or less. Id.
3. Under § 21 of Title II of the National Prohibition Act, which
declares any building, boat, vehicle, place, etc., where intoxicating
liquor is manufactured, sold, kept, or bartered in violation of that
title, to be a common nuisance, and prbvides that any person
maintaining such nuisance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
punishable by fine of not more than $1,000, or imprisonment for
not more than one year, or both, the imprisonment imposed cannot
be at hard labor or in a penitentiary; and, the offense, not being
infamous, may be prosecuted by information. P. 12.
4..A law of New Jersey (1917, c. 271,) authorizing the board of
chosen freeholders of any county to "cause to be employed"'
within the county any or all prisoners in any county jail, construed
as not contemplating the requirement of labor as a punishment.
P. 13.
279 Fed. 147, affirmed.

BREDE v. POWERS.
4

Argument for Appellant.

APPEAL from an order of the District Court for the
Eastern District of New York discharging a writ of
habeas corpus which had been sued out by the appellant
to try the constitutionality of his sentence and -commitment by that court to the Essex County Jail, N1ew; Jersey-a place designated by the Attorney General pursuant to Rev. Stats., § 5546. The sentence was based
upon a conviction under an information which charged
a violation of § 21 of Title II of the National Prohibition
Act, 41 Stat. 314.

Mr. Otho S.Bowling, with whom Mr. Robert H. Elder
was on the briefs, for appellant.
The order appealed from is erroneous for the reason
that appellant was convicted of an infamous crime, that
is, a crime for punishment of which the court had power
to subject him to an infamous punishment, namely, imprisonment af'hard labor, and since there was no indictment or. presentment by grand jury, but prosecution on a
mere information, the judgment of conviction was void
and the writ of habeas corpus should have been sustained,
1. If the crime was infamous, a trial upon a mere information could not give the court jurisdiction, the judgment
was void, and subject to collateral attack by habeas
corpus.
2. An infamous crime is one that carries an infamous
punishment; the test does not depend upon the punishnment that ultimately happens t6 be inflicted, but upon
the punishment the court has power to inflict. Ex parte
Wilson, 114 U. S. 417; Ex parte Bain, 121 U. S. 1; Parkinson v. United States, 121 U. S. 281; In re Clzasen, 140
•U. S.200.
Imprisonment at hard labor is an infamous punishment.
Ex parte Wilson, supra; Wong Wing v. United States, 163
U. S. 228; United States v. Moreland, 258 U. S. 433.
This is just as true of. imprisonment at hard labor in an

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appelant.

263 U.S.

institution maintained for punishment of minor offenders,
such as a house of correction, workhouse, or bridewell, as
it is of similar imprisonment in an institution maintained
for more serious offenders, such as a state prison or penitentiary. United States v. Moreland, supra.
3. Although the court attempted to sentence .appellant
to imprisonment in a penal institution in the State of
New Jersey, it had no power to do so, and that part of
the judgment which specifies such place of imprisonment
is void. The court did, however, have power to sentence
appellant to imprisonment in a penal institution in the
State of New York. Under the New York law, which
by federal statute is made applicable to the discipline
of federal prisoners in such institutions, imprisonment
therein is imprisonment at hard labor.
4. It has been held that Rev. Stats., § 5564, "may be
treated as a proviso to §§ 5541 and 5542." In re Karstendick, 93 U. S. 396, 401. It has been decided further that
§§ 5541 and 5542 define the only instances in which a
United States court can sentence a prisoner to confinement in a "state jail or penitentiary" within the State,
that is, when the statute requires hard labor as part of
the punishment or when the imprisonment is for more
than a year, and that, therefore, when the sentence is in
.terms to imprisonment merely, for a year or less, the
court has no power to sentence the prisoner "to a suitable jail or penitentiary in a convenient State .
designated by the Attorney General.," In re Mills, 135
U. S.263; In re Bonner, 151 U. S.242.
This is the only statute which permits a prisoner to be
sent out of the State (save when imprisonment is to be
"one year or more at hard labor" when it may be to a
federal prison, 26 Stat. 839); and, except where some
statute otherwise provides, the jurisdiction of the United
States District Courts is limited to their territory.
Toland v. Sprague, 12 Pet. 300, 328; Hernden v. Ridgway, 17 How. 423; 14 Ops. Atty. Gen. 522.

BREDE v. POWERS.
4

Argument for Appellant.

Therefore, unless In re Mills and In re Bonner are to
be overruled, it follows that so much of the judgment, as
pretends to designate an institution in the State of New
Jersey as the place of imprisonment is void, as being
beyond the power of the court.,
To what place did the court have power to sentence
appellant? Under Rev. Stats. § 5548, it had the power
tQ sentence him to any "house of correction or house of
reformation for juvenile delinquents within the State,"
providing the state legislature had so authorized (this
statute does not apply to juvenile offenders; they are
provided for by § 5549), or under §§ 5537-5538, to any
other place within the State for which the marshal miiht
make provision, except, of course, that under the decisions in th6 Mills and Bonner Cases it would have to be
some place other than the "state jail or penitentiary."
5. A sentence to any penal institution in the State of
New York is a sentence to hard labor. U. S. Rev. Stats.,
§ 5539; Ponzi v. Fessenden, 258 U. S. "254; 8 Ops. Atty.:
Gen. 289, 291; Act February 23, 1887, c. 213, § 1, 24 Stat.
411; New York Prison Law, c. 47, Laws 1909, §§ 157, 158,
171; New York County Law; c. 16, Laws 1909, §§ 96, 93;
New York City Charter, c. 466, Laws 1901, §§ 697, 700,
702; People ex rel. Gainance v. Platt, 148 App. Div. 579;
United States v. Pridgeon, 153 U. S. 48.
6. We conclude, therefore, that since the court had
power to sentence appellant to certain penal institutions
of the State of New York, all of which require hard labor
as part of the discipline which would have been required
of appellant not only because of the statutes of the State
which expressly so provide, but because of the comity between State and United States, of which Rev. S.tats.,.
§ 5539, is an expression,-a- comity limited only by the
prohibition against contracting or hiring the labor of the
prisoner, and which requires that the United States should
not attempt to interfere in the management of the insti-

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellant.

263 U. S.

tutons of the State,-the court had power to sentence
appellant to a term at hard labor, which is an infamous
,punishment, which may not be inflicted except after indictment or presentment by grand jury.
7. A sentence to imprisonment in the County Jail of
Essex County, would be~a sentence to hard labor. Chapter 271 of the Laws of 1917 of New Jersey provides:
"The board of chosen freeholders of any county in this
State may cause to be employed within such county any
and all prisoners in any county jail under sentence, or
committed for non-payment of a fine and costs, or com-,
mitted in default of bond for non-support of the
family."
The labor at which appellant would be "employed"
would be "hard labor," because it would be involuntary
servitude, irrespective of whether it happened to be physically arduous or easy. Bouvier Law Dict., "Hard
Labor"; United States v. Moreland, 258 U. S. 433, 444,
(dissent); Ex parte Wilson, 114 U. S. 417, 428. Moreover, there seems to be no restriction as to the kind of
labor the "freeholders" or th "master" can select.
The statute gives them free rein. They can make it just
as "hard," using the word in its ordinary sense, as they
choose, and, as already noted, the test is not what is
-likely to be done, but what may be done.
8. Any crime punishable by imprisonment is infamous.
An infamous crime is one, conviction of which is supposed
ipso facto to destroy one's good name. Therefore, accusation of it implies damage, and special damage need
not be averred or proved. In the opinions of the people,
it has long -been considered that a crime punishable
directly by imprisonment, (not in default of the payment
of a fine,) in any sort of criminal jail or prison, is "infamous,"'". -Only offenses that ae punishable 'by fine are
not infamous. Odgers on Libel and Slander, 5th ed.,
38-43.

BREDE v. POWERS.
4

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Solicitor Genral Beck and Mrs. Mabel Walker
Willebrandt, Assistant Attorney General, appeared for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Dismissal of a writ of habeas corpus is assailed by this
appeal. It was issued to review the legality of a conviction upon information and a sentence of imprisonment
upon it. In detail of the grounds and justification of it,
the charge of the petition is that appellant was proceeded
against in the District Court upon an information charging him with a violation of § 21, Title II, of the Act. of
Congress of October 28, 1919, c. 85, 41 Stat. 305, 314, the
National Prohibition Act, and convicted on the 17th day
of June, 1920, and sentenced to pay a fine of $500.00, and
be imprisoned for sixty days. In execution of the sentence it is alleged that he was committed to the custody
of the appellee, he being the United States marshal for
the Eastern District of New York.
The further allegation of the petition is that the court
"never acquired jurisdiction of the pretended criminal
action upon which, in form, it tried and condemned" him,
"for the reason that'the crime of which " he " was charged
and for which said Court sought to try and condemn"
him "is an infamous crime within the meaning of the
Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States and no presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury
charging same, was ever filed or presented."
After hearing, the writ was discharged and appellant
was remanded to the custody of the marshal to serve his
sentence under the commitment, which was to the county
jail of Essex County, New Jersey.
Is the contention of appellant justified in that his was
a conviction and commitment of an infamous crime? It
is upon this contention that his petition rests.

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1.923
Opinion of the Court.,

263 U. S.

It has been decided that a crime takes on the quality
of infamy if it be one punishable by imprisonment at hard
labor or in a penitentiary, and must be proceeded against
upon presentment or indictment of a grand jury. Ex
parte Wilson, 114 U. S. 417; Mackin v. United States, 117
U. S. 348; United States v. Moreland, 258 U. S. 433.
And such is the quality of the crime and the procedure
against it if the statute authorizes the court to condemn
to such punishment: See als6 In re Bonner, 151 U. S.
242; In re Mills, 135 U. S. 263.
Or, to put it as counsel puts it, "The construction of
the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution is this: An infamous crime is one that qarries infamous punislment;
the test does not depend upon the punishment that ultimately happens to be inflicted, but upon the punishment
the court has power to inflict."
To show the pertinence of the test and its adaptation.
to the case, it is the contention of the appellant that the
court had'power, and only power, to sentence him to
imprisonment in a penal institution of New York, and
that by the law of the Stat6, by federal statute made.
applicable to federal prisoners therein, imprisonment is at
hard labor.
The argument by which the contention is attempted to
be sustained is somewhat strained.' It rests upon the
power the statutes give to the courts to specify the places
of imprisonment which begaf, it is said, in 1789. By-a
resolution then passed, the state legislatures were recom-,
.mended to receive and keep prisoners committed under
the authority of the United States "under the like penalties as in the case of prisoners committed under the
authority of such States respectively. . . ." 1 Stat. 96.
-The .purpose thus expressed was in substance repeated
subsequently, and §§ 5537 and 5538, Rev, Stats., repro-

ducing a resolution adopted in 1821 (3 Stat. 646), §§ 5542
and 5548, reproducing 4 Stat. 118, and 4 Stat. 777, are

BREDE v. POWERS.
4

11

Opinion of the Court.

cited. Sections 5546 and 5541 are also cited, they having
their origin in 13 Stat. 74, and 500.
It is provided in §§ 5537 and 5538 that, where a State
does not allow the use of its jails to United States prisoners, the marshal under direction of the court may hire
or procure a temporary jail, and that the marshal shall
make provisions for the safe keeping of prisoners until
permanent provision for that purpose is made by law.
By § 5542, where the sentence is imprisonment to hard
labor, the court may direct its execution "within the
district or State where such court is held."
Section 5548 provides that whete punishment for 'an
offense is by fine or imprisonment it may be executed in
any house of correction or house of reformation for juvenile delinquents "within the State or district where
such court is held.
Sectiori 5546 provides that the place of imprisonment,
where there may be no .penitentiary or jail suitable for
the confinement of convicts or available therefor, may
be in some suitable jail or penitentiary in a convenient
State or Territory to be designated by the Attorney
General. And power to change is given to the Attorney
General..
The provisions of these s~ctions seem adaptive to all
imprisonments and to all grades of crime. In other
words, have an adaptive and harmonious relation, .and
such relation they were declared to have in In re Karstendick, 93 U. S. 396. Appellant, however, contends that
§ 5546 may be treated as a proviso of §§ 5541 and 5542,
and that the latter sections "define the only instances in
which a United States court can sentence- a prisoner to
confinement in a 'state jail or penitentiary' within the
State, that is, when the statute requires hard labor as
part of the punishment or when the imprisonment is for
more than a year, and that, therefore, when the sentence
is in terms to imprisonment merely, for a year or less,

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U S.

the court has no power to sentence the prisoner 'to a
suitable jail or penitentiary in a convenient State . . .
designated by the Attorney General."
We are not impressed with the contention. The reasoning to sustain it-is that Congress "could give District
Courts the power to sentence short-term convicts to institutions beyond the limits of their ordinary jurisdiction,
but it hasn't." And further, "although Congress was
willing, when the facts justified, that a long-termer should
be sent beyond the borders of his State, they were unwilling that a short-termer should be so dealt with."
The reasoning does not convince us. We prefer, and
accept, the clear and direct power given to the Attorney
General (§ 5546), and there is nothing in In re Mills and
In re Bonner that militates against it.
In re. Mills decided that when a statute does not require imprisonment in a penitentiary, a sentence cannot
impose it unless the sentence is for a period longer than
one year. In re Bonner is to the same effect. In other
words, the sentences cannot transcend those of the statutes. In both cases the sentences were convictions upon
indictments. They are anuthorities against, not for, the
appellant. His contention changes the penalty of the
statute and therefore repels. The statute provides that,
for. the .offense here charged, the offender shall be fined
not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not exceeding one
year, or both. (§ 21.) Where the charge is selling, as in
the Wyman Case, post, 14, the punishment, for the first
offense, is a fine not more than ,$1,000, and imprisonment
not exceeding six months. National Prohibition Act,
§ 29, 41 Stat. 316.
The statute excludes the imposition of hard labor or
imprisonment in a penitentiary. Under the contention
of appellant both would be 'imposed. Imprisonment
must be- is the assertion, in a New York penitentiary,
and at hard labor, the latter conseauence because of the

BREDE v. POWERS.4

Opinion of the Court.

Appellant, while particularly insiitent upon the New

York law and the absence of -power to imprison elsewhere than in a New York institution, however, contends that, the imprisonment in the Essex County jail
is at hard labor because the conduct or discipline of that

jail requires or permits the imposition of hard labor, and
thereby constitutes the crime infamous. If that can be
so held it gives the court power to transcend the statute

which, as we have'said, does not include hard labor in its
punishment. But such ,peremptory requirement cannot
be assigned to the New Jersey law-neither employment
at hard labor nor any labor. The law is made adaptive
to circumstances, made so by committing its administration. to the judgment of the freeholders of the county,
and it is limited to*prescribing suitable employment of
prisoners to accomplish the purpose of the law. Laws of
New Jersey of 1917, page 888. The law gives no indication that the employment is or may be prescribed as
punishment. It proceeds along other lines.
It follows that the sentence of the court was not intended to be and could not have been to imprisonment at
hard labor.
We find no error in the decision of the court in discharging the writ and its action is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

concur in the result.

